 9
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/2009
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Andrew McIver
Group Chief Executive
Since being founded ten years ago, Sportingbet 
has grown significantly to become a major player 
in the online betting industry. Its market-leading 
European sports betting platform now offers over 
8,000 sports betting markets on a busy trading 
day, covering a huge range of sports, leagues and 
bet types supplemented by revenues generated 
from casino, poker and other betting games. 
Sportingbet branded websites are now available 
in 23 different languages and the customer call 
centre located in Dublin, is able to answer queries 
in 42 languages.  
Sportingbet’s operations are focused on Europe, 
Australia and a burgeoning Emerging Markets 
business. The European operation is based in 
the Channel Islands, operating under a licence 
provided by the Alderney Gambling Control 
Commission. This is supported by an operational 
centre in Dublin providing customer services and 
administrative support, together with an IT function 
located in London. The Group’s Australian division 
is based in Darwin, operating under a license 
provided by the Northern Territories Government.  
In total, the Group now employs over 500 people.
Sport and sports betting continues to be at the 
heart of the Sportingbet business. Sports betting 
revenues accounted for approximately 64% 
(2008: 60%) of Group NGR. During the year 
significant additional functionality was added 
to the sports product offerings in response to 
consumer demand.  In November 2008, live 
web-streaming of sport was made available to 
our European customer base to complement the 
Group’s in-running betting product (“in:play”). This 
functionality allows customers to watch the game 
live on their PC, whilst placing bets on a wide 
variety of outcomes during the event. The demand 
for in:play betting is significant and now accounts 
for 56% of amounts wagered in Europe. In order 
to further support the demand for this product, 
Sportingbet now provides a round-the-clock in-
running betting service on an ever wider variety of 
events irrespective of an event’s location or  
time zone.  10
In addition to the extension of the Group’s 
in:play product, the coverage of pre-match  
betting has also been broadened to include  
new sports, leagues and betting markets.  
As a result, Sportingbet offers one of the most 
extensive sports betting products available.  
This broad product offering is backed up by a 
best-in-class risk management and trading team. 
This is demonstrated by the continued  
market-leading sports margin, a margin that 
is achieved in conjunction with maintaining 
competitive pricing for the customer. The Board 
believes that the Group’s strength and expertise 
in this key operational area will stand it in good 
stead to capitalise on the significant potential in 
this industry.
During the year the Group launched websites into 
two further markets, South Africa and Romania.  
In South Africa, the Group acquired a licence for 
online sports betting in conjunction with a local 
partner and launched a localised site in February 
2009. This market is currently immature and we 
are looking to the 2010 FIFA World Cup Finals in 
South Africa to help build this business. In addition, 
the Group launched a Romanian language site in 
April 2009 in conjunction with our very successful 
Greek partner. This launch has been supported by 
the sponsorship of Steaua Bucharest, the largest 
and most popular football team in Romania.
Europe
The European business (incorporating the 
financial results for the Emerging Markets 
Division) continues to grow strongly with the 
amount wagered on sports increasing by 21.4% 
to £917 .5m (2008: £755.5m), generating a 
gross margin (pre bonus adjustment) of £93.6m 
(2008: £75.4m) up 24.1%.  European casino and 
games revenue grew by 12.6% to £43.7m (2008: 
£38.8m) whilst poker revenues declined by 7 .6% 
to £22.0m (2008: £23.8m).  
The number of sports bets placed rose by 12% to 
57 .5m (2008: 5 1.5m). The continued increase in 
popularity of in:play betting has been a significant 
driver of the volume growth over the past year. 
In:play betting accounted for 56% of the value 
of bets placed during the year.  This popularity is 
evidenced by the number of bets per customer 
increasing to 134 (2008: 1 1 1).  The average bet 
size was up 9% to £15.97 (2008: £14.66) leading 
to yield per sports customer increasing from £161 
to £216.
During the year, a sports gross margin of 10.2% 
was achieved (2008: 10.0%) despite the increase 
of in:play betting which tends to have a lower 
average margin due to the greater proportion of 
straight wagers (versus multiple bets) than pre 
match betting. This margin has been achieved 
through absolute focus on accurate odds 
setting, risk management and investment in the 
underlying technologies to allow the team of highly 
experienced traders to maximise profits from  
the wagers that are taken.
Over the past 24 months, the European business 
has undertaken a thorough review of its customer 
database. As a result of this analysis, the Group 
implemented a change in marketing strategy to 
move from a ‘quantity at any cost’ to a ‘quality 
and value’ approach. The marketing focus is 
now prioritised on those customer segments 
that provide a significant contribution to Group 
performance. This has resulted in a movement 
away from mass market recruitment towards 
the recruitment and yield management of more 
valuable players.
Group Chief Executive’s Review ANNUAL REPORT 2008/2009
11
Significant investment has also been made in 
the European customer service centre as part of 
the continued focus on our customer base. The 
service centre, based in Dublin, now employs over 
150 people and has 42 language capabilities. 
The investment in the Dublin operation has been 
recognised by the World Contact Centre, the 
leading customer service industry body, through 
the award for Best Customer Services in Europe.
The Group aims to derive its revenues from a 
broad geographical base. The Board is aware that 
regulatory uncertainty exists in many markets in 
which the Group operates and therefore a broad 
geographic base helps to reduce the impact of 
potential regulatory shocks which may occur. 
The Group’s core markets of Greece and Spain 
continue to perform well with gaming revenues up 
56% and 1 1% respectively.
Gaming revenues from the Turkish business have 
fallen by 15% year-on-year, equivalent to £4.1m 
as a result of the Group reducing the importance 
of this market. Turkey accounted for approximately 
12.8% of Group revenue during the year 
compared to 17 .2% for the prior year, although the 
Turkish business performed strongly during the 
latter part of the year.
The UK market has historically been difficult for 
the Group and gaming revenues from this domain 
fell by 21% during the year. This market has been 
generally overserviced with a relatively expensive 
media environment. The impact of the recession 
in the UK has led to the cost of media falling, 
enabling the Group to consider strategies in this 
market which hitherto had been prohibitively 
expensive.  As a result, the Group now has a 
number of sports-based sponsorships in the UK 
including over 75 horse races throughout the 
summer of 2009 and the main sponsorship of 
Wolverhampton Wanderers Football Club. 
Eastern Europe continues to be a significant 
growth market, growing in aggregate by 26% 
to account for 15% of Group revenues (2008: 
13%).  In addition, increased focus on France and 
Germany, following more certainty around the 
longer term regulatory outlook, has resulted in 
an increase in NGR of 5 1%. These markets are 
expected to make a significant contribution to the 
Group’s results in future years.
Europe’s casino and games offering, which 
accounted for 24% of the Group’s revenue, grew 
by 12.6% during the year. Customers continue to 
move away from the traditional download casino 
product (down 2.5% year-on-year) in favour of 
more instant casino games using Flash-based 
technologies (up 34.3% year-on-year). To support 
this demand the Group has launched over 90 
instant games in Q4 across certain domains 
provided by a range of software suppliers.  
Further initiatives are in place through the current 
financial year to widen the availability of these 
new products to other geographies as well as 
integrating new software suppliers to increase the 
available content.
During the year, the European region generated 
poker rake of £22.0m (2008: £23.8m), pre-
bonus deductions, down 7 .6% on the prior year.  
Poker now accounts for only 12% of the Group’s 
revenue, down from 15% in 2008. The European 
poker market remains very challenging as the 
environment remains highly competitive with 
certain large US-focused poker companies using 
their significant cash flows and high liquidity 
to continue to attract customers from existing 
European only companies.   12
In July 2009 the Group sold its licensed Italian 
operation (“Sportingbet Italia S.p.A.”) to the local 
management team for nominal consideration.  
Sportingbet Italia S.p.A. was acquired in May 2006 
in anticipation of expected further liberalisation 
of Italian online gaming regulation. These 
changes did not materialise and consequently 
the combination of alternative betting channels, 
together with the lack of operational synergies 
with the rest of the Group’s European business, 
has meant Sportingbet Italia S.p.A. had been loss 
making since acquisition. Whilst these losses 
had been reduced to the minimum considered 
achievable, the Board concluded that significant 
financial and managerial investment would be 
required to generate a profitable business in Italy 
from the current base and at the present time 
such investment would be better placed elsewhere 
in the Group’s portfolio. During the first eleven 
months of the financial year, Sportingbet Italia 
S.p.A. generated amounts wagered of £14.1m and 
£2.1m of NGR, generating an operational loss of 
approximately £1.5m.  
The disposal of Sportingbet Italia S.p.A. has 
resulted in a loss from discontinued operations of 
£9.4m which comprises the write down of goodwill 
of £6.4m, a loss on disposal and other associated 
costs of £1.5m and a year-to-date trading loss of 
£1.5m during the year. 
Australia
The Australian betting market has undergone 
considerable change in the past financial year.  
The Australian market continues to be dominated 
by the Totaliser Agency Boards (“TABs”) some 
of which remain state owned and some of which 
have now been privatised. The TABs account for 
approximately 70% of the A$20bn+ wagering 
industry in Australia. The corporate bookmakers 
have demonstrated a combined compound annual 
growth rate in turnover of over 28% over the past 
seven years compared with the growth of the 
TABs phone and internet operations of just 9.3%.  
The corporate bookmaking market is dominated 
by four main businesses, of which Sportingbet is 
the largest.
In September 2008, New South Wales and 
Victoria relaxed their restriction on sports betting 
advertisements with other States following suit 
shortly thereafter. Sportingbet, as Australia’s 
largest independent bookmakers, was able to 
increase its profile in these markets through 
advertising in press, TV, radio and at sports events. 
It is anticipated that the internet business will 
be the prime beneficiary of such advertising. 
In response to the relaxation in advertising 
restrictions a number of States sought to impose 
further gambling taxes and levies on sports and 
betting revenues. These taxes vary by State 
and by sport and are charged in some cases 
on the amount wagered and in other cases on 
gross margin. The taxes and levies have been 
implemented by the States but remain subject to 
challenge by the industry.
Amounts wagered increased by 12.7% from 
£543.2m to £612.1m resulting in pre-tax margin 
increasing 24% from £23.4m to £29.1m. 
Gambling taxes in Australia amounted to £6.7m 
in the year (2008: £3.6m) resulting in post-tax 
margin increasing by 13.2% from £19.8m to 
£22.4m.  After bonuses, NGR increased by 8.9% 
from £19.1m to £20.8m.
Group Chief Executive’s Review 13
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/2009
The Australian operation comprises two elements: 
an internet business and a telephone business.  
The telephone operation is biased towards higher 
staking customers, betting predominantly on 
horseracing and the business typically offers an 
element of credit to the customer. The internet 
business, which has been built from scratch over 
the last five years, is more recreational in nature 
and covers a greater diversity of sports. No credit 
is offered for internet customers. The different bias 
of the two operations leads the internet business 
to have a higher gross margin percentage than the 
telephone operation.
The internet business accounts for 33% of the 
amounts wagered and 46% of the gross margin. 
The number of bets placed on the internet has 
grown by 59% over the prior year.
Over the year we have seen the effect of the 
global financial crisis impacting on the higher 
staking telephone customers. In particular, the 
number of bets per telephone customer has 
decreased 26% from an average of 149 bets per 
year to 1 10 per year. The average bet size has also 
fallen by 9% from A$663 to A$603.
Emerging Markets
In accordance with the Board’s desire for a broad 
geographical base, the Group has invested in its 
Emerging Markets division for the past two years. 
The primary focus of this division is to identify 
new potential markets for online gambling, to 
understand the gambling culture, propensities 
and regulation in these regions and, if appropriate, 
launch into these markets. The expansion in 
our global footprint also helps to support the 
sustained increase in the Group’s global sports 
offering which is proving to be increasingly popular 
with its existing European sports customers. 
The Emerging Markets financial performance 
is currently incorporated within the European 
division’s financial report.
The Emerging Markets division has been focused 
primarily on two regions, Brazil and Canada.  
During the year, the Group acquired a sports 
betting licence from South Africa, in conjunction 
with a local partner. This licensed South African 
business was launched in February 2009.
In Brazil the Group has developed a strong 
business over the past two years, growing fourfold 
over the prior year, albeit from a relatively low 
base.  The Sportingbet brand has developed a 
strong media presence in Brazil as well as being 
the main sponsor of the Brazilian football league’s 
second division – home of Corinthians, Brazil’s 
most popular team. The experience gained from 
this market will be used to launch into other 
geographies in the region. All profits are currently 
being reinvested in this market.
   14
Dividend
The Group plans to reinstate the payment of 
a dividend of 1.0p for the year ended 31 July 
2009.  A considerable amount has been achieved 
since the closure of the US-facing business in 
October 2006 through efforts to restructure the 
business and the reinstatement of a dividend 
marks a further stage in the development of the 
Group.  The intention to pay such a dividend is 
not expected to affect the discussions about any 
possible future agreement or financial settlement 
with US Department of Justice.
The 1.0p dividend will be paid on 8 January 
2010 to shareholders on the register on 1 1 
December 2009 subject to shareholder approval 
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
18 December 2009. The Group plans to follow 
a progressive dividend policy, subject to market 
conditions.
Outlook
The Group’s focus will remain on sports betting 
through further investment in IT, product and 
marketing. Strong consumer demand is driving 
the development of our in:play product which now 
offers round the clock live betting opportunities 
for our customers, supplemented by live video 
footage. We continue to increase the number of 
markets we serve and plan to extend our footprint 
each year. Whilst these embryonic markets take 
time to mature, early indications from new markets 
have been encouraging.
Current trading
Overall, the new financial year has commenced 
in line with expectations. European sports betting 
continues to power the business with amounts 
wagered ahead of our expectations at this stage. 
Casino and games continues to perform in line 
with prior years whilst poker remains a difficult 
market.
In Australia, the amounts wagered are only 
marginally ahead of the prior year. Additionally, the 
first two months of the year have experienced a 
lower than average sports margin in Australia due 
to a high percentage of favourites winning events.
However, given the strong sign-up and turnover 
trends in the core European sports business, the 
Board remains optimistic for the outcome of the 
financial year at this stage. 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
