 06 Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1
Andrew McIver,  
Group Chief Executive, 
discusses the key events 
of the year and looks 
forward to 2012
How would you summarise 
Sportingbet’s year?
Despite economic pressure in two of 
our biggest markets, Greece and Spain, 
we delivered a robust performance 
and hit our profit target of £38.1m. We 
benefited from a good performance in 
Australia and our Emerging Markets – a 
clear demonstration of the benefits of 
having a geographically diverse business.
I was pleased that we finally settled 
with the US Department of Justice in 
September 2010. This has been a long 
and arduous process so it was good to 
reach a conclusion and give shareholders 
certainty on the potential liability. We 
could now re-enter the US, subject to 
the prevailing regulation, if we felt it 
was appropriate to do so. More recently 
the successful acquisition of Centrebet, 
secured our market position in the 
buoyant Australian market and gave 
a welcome boost to performance. 
How will the Centrebet acquisition 
generate shareholder value?
The acquisition of Centrebet brings a 
number of benefits. Firstly, it consolidates 
our position as the leading fixed 
odds bookmaker in the fast growing 
Australian market and it puts us in 
prime position to benefit from any 
future regulation changes in online 
casino, poker and in:running products.
Secondly, we will be able to extend 
our capabilities in the wider sports 
and internet arena where Centrebet 
is particularly strong, complementing 
our leading presence in horseracing 
and telephone betting.
Finally, we expect to deliver significant 
cost savings as we merge operations and 
this integration is progressing well so far.
Overview
Group Chief Executive’s Q&A
wellpositioned Sportingbet Plc Annual Report 201 1 07
OVERVIEW
How do you view increased 
regulation in your markets?
Very positively! We welcome regulation 
because it provides certainty over 
revenues and profit streams. Our 
experience in Australia suggests that 
after an initial profit hit as we began 
to pay tax, within three years, profits 
recovered and growth returned. This 
demonstrates the positive impact of 
being able to market products more 
widely and with the acquisition of 
Centrebet, we have taken a major step 
along the regulatory path in that market. 
We are following moves towards 
regulation in Spain and Greece closely 
and expect this trend to continue – 
look at the developments in Italy and 
even Germany. We meet extensively 
with licensing authorities to put our 
views forward – they are often well 
received – and we are very happy to 
contribute to the regulatory debate.
What is unique about Sportingbet’s 
customer proposition?
I think the clue is in the name! We are 
focused on delivering an industry leading 
sports betting proposition built on our 
fast growing in:running product, an 
unrivalled selection of bets and a well 
thought-out customer engagement 
model. We expect our staff to have a 
passion for sport and support almost 
anything sporting. This is underpinned 
by a significant investment in customer 
service. We recruit multi-lingual staff 
and train them to understand betting 
and how our products work and 
even to acquire another language, 
if they want to extend their skills. 
Why is in:running betting so popular 
and what is its impact on revenue?
In:running betting took off as soon 
as it became technically possible 
because it dramatically increases the 
level of involvement in a sports event, 
maintaining the excitement throughout. 
From the constraints of the win, lose, 
draw, starting point, we now offer up 
to 200 possible bets during a match. 
From our point of view, we have seen 
revenues for our in:play product rise to 
67% of European amounts wagered 
within a very short period of time.
Do you see mobile betting as a key 
area of growth?
Yes, certainly. Mobile currently represents 
about 15% of our actives and this 
is growing at a steady 150% year 
on year. There are some key market 
drivers dictating pace and momentum 
in ‘new technologies’ in general. 
Smart phone penetration and flat 
data packages are growing strongly 
and demographics are working in our 
favour. In addition, with the advent of 
platforms like Google, PPC, Facebook 
and the Apple App Store, who have 
all recently begun to regulate, mobile 
accessibility and activity is set to increase. 
What will management focus  
on over the next few years?
Customer retention remains key 
to the future so we will continue 
investing in our products to give the 
customer a richer, more rewarding 
experience, alongside expanding 
our mobile capabilities.
In the short-term, bedding in Centrebet 
will be a key priority alongside ensuring 
we compete effectively in the newly 
regulated markets like Spain and Greece 
and keep a watching brief on other 
countries on the regulatory path. 
Growth will remain top of the agenda 
as we expand our international presence 
but this will be combined with an 
increased focus on cost management 
as we tackle the challenge of the 
harsh economic conditions facing 
European markets together with the 
incoming cuts that regulation brings. 
wellpositioned
