 ANNUAL REPORT 2008/2009
7
Peter Dicks
Chairman and Non-Executive Director
Once again, I am pleased to report that 
Sportingbet has made significant progress during 
the last financial year. The Group continues to 
consolidate its position as a leader in the online 
sports betting market whilst growing profits 
significantly. This has been achieved against 
the backdrop of a poor economic climate for 
consumer spending in all markets and the 
additional adverse impact of new taxes in one of 
the Group’s core markets, Australia.  
Regulation continues to define the internet 
gambling industry across Europe and the rest of 
the world.  In general, we continue to see pressure 
on European countries to justify their national 
gambling regimes in light of the free-trade 
requirements of international law. Such actions 
have seen some countries move towards a more 
liberal stance and in certain cases the introduction 
of regulation whilst other nations continue to 
receive censure from various international trade 
organisations. Sportingbet strongly supports 
sensible, well balanced regulation that has 
consumer protection at the heart of its agenda.  
Chairman’s Statement
Corporately, the Group seeks to mitigate 
regulatory risk through geographic diversification 
whilst retaining structural flexibility to react 
positively to such regulation if, when and where it 
may occur.
In the United States, the Group continues to be in 
talks with the US Department of Justice to seek 
clarification of the position of the US Authorities 
with respect to the Group’s previous activities 
and to determine whether a mutually acceptable 
resolution is possible. These talks continue and 
are both productive and amicable in their nature. 
The Board remains optimistic of reaching an 
appropriate settlement but there continues to be 
little visibility of the likely timing or quantum.
Our ethos is ‘it’s all about sport’. Sports betting 
is the origin and mainstay of our business, 
accounting for 64% of Group net gaming revenue 
(“NGR”), and is inherent in both the Company’s 
name and our core branding.  Our objective is to 
develop our market-leading internet sports betting 
platforms to offer customers something to bet 
on every minute of every day through a secure, 
user-friendly and efficient interface. The Group’s 
European website offers one of the world’s largest 
ranges of betting markets per day covering all 
mainstream sports and leagues across the globe. 8
Outside the main business of bookmaking we 
continue our sports ethos by supporting sport 
through various charitable and sponsorship 
contributions.  Sportingbet is now the main 
supporter of HEROS, a charity dedicated to the 
welfare of former racehorses to ensure they have 
a comfortable existence once their racing days 
are over. Sportingbet is also focused on football, 
the dominant sport in Europe, and is now the 
main shirt sponsor for Wolverhampton Wanderers 
Football Club playing in the English Premier 
League, Steaua Bucharest of Romania and Slavia 
Sofia of Bulgaria. In Australia, the Group is the 
major sponsor of the Brisbane Broncos, one of 
Australia’s leading Rugby League teams and 
Carlton Football Club, one of Australia’s largest 
Aussie Rules teams.
The Group is also investing in the communities in 
which we base our operations.  In Guernsey, the 
location of our main European operational base, 
we are proud to sponsor Heather Watson, a young 
Guernsey tennis player who has recently won 
the US Open girl’s title. Heather is now ranked 
number one in the UK, and number three in the 
world. The Group also sponsors many local sports-
based community events such as the Guernsey 
Marathon. In Antigua, where the Group has held a 
gaming license for many years, we have donated 
a significant sum to fund both the building of a 
library at the Island Academy International School 
and bursaries for a number of under privileged 
local children.
I am pleased to announce the reinstatement of 
dividend payments. The Group has achieved a 
considerable amount since the closure of the US-
facing business in October 2006 and the payment 
of a 1.0p dividend marks a further stage in the 
development of the business. 
Chairman’s Statement
