 ATH Resources plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 3
This financial period has been the most eventful
in the Group’s development. It has seen two
major structural changes to the Group. First,
the acquisition of the Garleffan opencast coal
site from LAW Mining Ltd on 28 November 2003,
assisted by new funding from Alchemy Partners
and Bank of Scotland, effectively doubling
the size of the Group. Second, the listing of
the Group on AIM on 11 June 2004 has
positioned the Group exceptionally well for
future development.
Operational review
The Skares Road mine has performed very well
through the period. Coal production has been
scaled back, during the second half, as the
mine switched operational areas into higher
stripping ratios. The mine produced and sold
800,000 tonnes of coal and its products
continued to perform strongly in the household
and industrial coal markets.
Following its acquisition, the Garleffan mine
was subject to a turnaround through the year.
The mine required deepening, in order that the
reserve was maximised and the excavation
cuts needed to be realigned for efficient
operation. This process has been completed
along with the reorganisation and relocation
of many of the coal preparation and support
services areas. In addition, this mine has
benefited from significant investment in new
overburden excavation and transportation
equipment and is now set to operate to its
maximum efficiency for the remainder of its life.
Despite these major changes to the operations, 
the mine produced 640,000 tonnes of coal
over the ten month period of ATH control.
In addition, in August, the Group successfully
concluded the disposal of a parcel of its
development land at Hannahston in Ayrshire,
for which planning permission for 36 houses
had been granted on a restored opencast site.
Development projects
The development of new business opportunities
has received constant attention since the listing.
In Fife, the Muir Dean project, is moving towards
a planning application with terms agreed on
the final major land parcel. Two other Ayrshire
sites are also being prepared for planning
application early in 2005. These developments
will see planning permission being sought
for more than three million tonnes this winter.
Additionally, prospecting is ongoing at other
new projects in Scotland in advance of further
applications for planning permission.
The Société des Ressources Minières du
Massif Central (“SRMMC”) projects are also
developing steadily, with an application for
a mining permit for the Commentry project
progressing through the planning system and
the transfer of the Bertholene Concession
completed. During this coming winter, both
sites will have exploration works; Commentry
for quality analysis and Bertholene for scheme
design. Both projects will also be the subject
of environmental assessments as part of the
application process and it is planned to have
both mines available for commencement in 
2006, although only one at a time will be brought
into production.
Market
The market for coal in the UK remains buoyant.
International coal prices remain very high on the
back of worldwide growth in demand driven by
China and the Far East. Infrastructure limitations
will slow any pricing falls as production tries to
catch up with demand. Consequently, as we
renew coal sales contracts from 2006 we expect
to see some uplift in pricing to the benefit of
the business.
Finally, this has been an extraordinary year for
our business, which has only been made
possible by the commitment and dedication
of the employees over several years and in
particular the last twelve months. I would like
to thank each of them for their support and
effort that has collectively developed this
business to the strong position it now holds.
Thomas Allchurch
Chief Executive
Chief executive’s statement
“Coal mining still plays a vital part in the economy
of the UK through the generation of a third of our
electricity, without which the lights would go out
this winter. On a local scale the well paid jobs
and investment that the industry brings to the
former deep mining towns in Ayrshire, is welcomed
by all concerned.”

