 Chairman’s statement
2 ATH Resources plc Annual report and financial statements 2004
This year has seen a massive step change 
in both the size of the Group and its public
profile. Commencing operations in 1998 as
a one site, venture capital backed, opencast
coal mine with ambitions then limited to the
successful development of the Skares Road
site, it is particularly pleasing to report on a
year that has seen the continuing profitable
operation of the Group’s original mine, the
doubling of the Group’s operations through
the acquisition from LAW Mining of a second
site at Garleffan and the successful listing on
the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”).
Taken individually, any one of these events
could be judged as constituting a successful
year. To have achieved all three demonstrates
not only ATH’s ambition to become a major
player in the UK coal mining industry, but
also the ability of a young and committed
management team to deliver complex and
strategically demanding targets.
Business progress
Profitability, after allowing for all of the
exceptional costs associated with the
acquisition and the float, is in line with the
Board’s expectations and plans are in place
to further improve performance in the coming
year. Extensions are planned at both of the
Group’s existing sites and new planning
applications will shortly be made to extend
ATH’s operations to other parts of Scotland.
In France, progress continues to be made
towards developing new opencast sites which
will provide coal for French coal consumers.
Board changes
During the year the Board has been strengthened
by the addition of two Non-executive Directors.
Vaughan Williams, recently retired from BHP
Billiton, is widely experienced in the coal
industry and brings industry knowledge and
considerable management experience to the
Board. Ivana Slade, an Executive with Alchemy
Partners, is widely experienced in all aspects of
M&A and fund raising. These two appointments
ensure that the Board has all the skills necessary
to take it forward. 
In France the Group is particularly pleased to
have secured the services of Michel Guy as a
Director of its French subsidiary. Michel has
a coal importation business in France and is
well placed to ensure that the output from the
two French mines will have a smooth path
to market.
Strategy
There is no doubt that the coal industry,
which currently is responsible for producing
some 35% of this country’s electricity, faces
some significant political and fiscal challenges.
Whilst the country has failed to evolve a credible
and balanced long-term energy policy, the
demand for electricity continues to increase and
the older nuclear power stations are reaching the
end of their useful lives. Current policy places too
much reliance upon renewables, imported gas
from Russia and Liquified Natural Gas from the
Middle East and South America. This means that
coal will continue to have to play a significant part
in this country’s electricity generation.
ATH’s strategy will be to maintain a relatively
small but stable share of that market. Its low
cost of operation and its access to low sulphur
Scottish coal should ensure the success of
that strategy. There also remains a significant
market for domestic fuel in which ATH is already
established as a major supplier and in which
it will continue to operate. 
Worldwide demand for coal continues to rise
with the economic growth of China and this,
together with high freight costs, means that the
selling price for coal will remain high for the
foreseeable future. The vast majority of ATH’s
sales contracts are at selling prices significantly
below current market levels, therefore revenues
should increase as these contracts are renewed.
Against this, the high cost of oil has significantly
increased the Group’s operating costs as it is
a major consumer of gas oil. 
The listing of ATH on AIM has strategically
placed the Group to take advantage of the
many opportunities that will become available
in the near future, and the Board looks forward
to reporting on further developments in the
coming year.
David Port
Non-executive Chairman
“It is with great pleasure that I present the first
annual report of the Group following its listing
and am pleased to be able to report on a
momentous and yet profitable period of
enlargement and development.”

