 chief executive’s report
it is good to be able to report on another year of strong 
growth for sports direct, achieved by delivering what 
we said we would. the resilience of our business model 
continues to add significant value to our operations by 
providing customers with an unrivalled depth and breadth 
of product choice at the best available prices, across all 
categories and in all stores for serious sportsmen  
and women. 
With a number of new stores opened during the year in 
the uK and europe, we are taking our offer to an ever 
increasing customer base which is responding positively 
to stronger in-store marketing and promotional initiatives. 
We are proud of our reputation for quality and remain as 
determined as ever to strengthen our position as the clear 
market leader in the uK sports retail sector. 
i am especially pleased that our people will benefit from 
their contribution to Group success through our meeting 
the first year’s target for the employee Bonus share 
scheme introduced last year. 
 
Group 
in the 52 weeks ended 25 april 2010 (the Year) we 
increased Group revenue 6.2% to a record £1,452m 
compared with revenue of £1,367m for the 52 weeks 
ended 26 april 2009. the increase was due to a strong 
performance in the retail division where revenues rose 
10.9% to £1,261m (2009: £1,137m). the Brand division 
revenues decreased as planned,17.4% to £190.5m  
(2009: £230.5m).
Group gross margin in the Year fell by 20 basis points 
from 40.8% to 40.6%. retail division margin fell by 50 
basis points to 40.8% (2009: 41.3%), while Brands division 
margin increased 60 basis points to 38.9% (2009: 38.3%).
Group operating costs increased 1.4% to £431.0m (2009: 
£425.0m). retail division operating costs were well 
controlled and increased by only 3.3% in the Year, despite 
an increase in floor space of 5.2% and a rise in sales of just 
under 11%. 
Brands division operating costs were down 23.4% to 
£54.2m (2009: £70.8m) due to a combination of the 
reduction in costs in line with turnover and operational 
efficiencies. also included within Group operating costs 
is a £10.8m (2009: nil) charge in respect of the employee 
Bonus share scheme and p erformance share plan. this 
charge has been taken centrally and, except in note 4 
to the accounts, is not reflected in divisional (retail and 
Brands) numbers in this report. 
We grew Group underlying eBitda for the Year by 17.3% to 
£160.4m (2009: £136.8m). Within this underlying eBitda, 
the retail division increased 27.2% to £151.4m (2009: 
£119.0m) and the Brands division increased 11.2% to 
£19.8m (2009: £17.8m).
Group underlying profit before tax increased 49.8% to 
£102.1m (2009: £68.2m), as a result of the £23.6m increase 
in eBitda together with a £12.8m reduction in interest 
payable and a £1.8m increase in depreciation.
underlying eps for the Year increased by 56.2% to 12.39p 
(2009: 7.93p).
debt reduction remains a priority for the Group. in 
december 2009, we announced a target to reduce net debt 
levels to below £400m by april 2010. in fact, we actually 
reduced net debt to £311.9m (2009: £431.3m). this was 
achieved by:
• growing underlying eBitda from £136.8m to £160.4m 
• reducing inventory levels through the year from £262.3m 
to £218.8.m
• reducing levels of capital expenditure by approximately 
50% to £19.4m as targeted last year
• reducing financing costs by £12.8m as a result of 
ongoing low interest rates and lower level of debt from 
£22.5m to £9.7m 
• saving the cost of the 2009 final and 2010 dividends
in the current financial year and beyond, we will target to 
reduce levels of debt further to a range between one and 
1.5 times underlying eBitda by april 2011.
 
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW
overview of financial performance
Group reVenue
£1,452m 
+6.2%
retail 
Brands
2010 2009 2008 2007
£1,452m
£1,367m
£1,260m
£1,347m sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.7
2010 marks Everlast’s 100th Anniversary For the financial year ended:
25 April 2010 
£’m
26 april 2009 
£’m
change
%
Retail Revenue:
uK retail 1,117.7 1,006.5 11.0
uK Wholesale and other 23.5 28.0 -16.1
international retail 119.9 102.3 17.2
t otal retail revenue 1,261.1 1,136.8 10.9
cost of sales (746.1) (667.5) 11.8
Gross margin 515.0 469.3 9.7
Gross margin percentage 40.8% 41.3%
 
For the financial year ended:
25 April 2010 
£’m
26 april 2009 
£’m
change
%
Brands Revenue:
Wholesale 167.3 203.6 -17.8
licensing 23.2 26.9 -13.8
t otal brands revenue 190.5 230.5 -17.4
cost of sales (116.4) (142.2) -18.1
Gross margin 74.1 88.4 -16.2
Gross margin percentage 38.9 38.3
 
 
 
in spite of a difficult trading environment, our strategy of 
focusing on our core strengths, increasing efficiencies and 
controlling costs, delivered another strong performance.
 
uK retail
uK retail revenues growth was primarily driven by our 
retail and logistics skills – providing the best products at 
the best prices with universal availability.
uK retail sales were up 11.0% to £1,118m (2009: £1,007m). 
there were no major acquisitions or disposals within uK 
retail during the Year. sales in the second half of the Year 
were up 7.2% to £531.7m (2009: £496.2m) against strong 
comparatives. the sales increase in the second half of the 
Year was better than expected, but was at the expense of a 
lower than anticipated margin. 
online revenue continues to grow strongly and we will 
look at opportunities to develop this revenue stream 
further. order fulfilment and state-of-the-art information 
technology solutions are developed in-house with full 
back-up support from our national distribution centre 
resources in shirebrook, derbyshire. the website has 
benefited from the increased recognition of the online 
brand with approximately 90% of core store fascias now 
branded sportsdirect .com. online sales represented 
4.5% of total uK retail sales (2009:1.5%). Between March 
and June 2010, we ran our first television advertising 
campaign. We saw a subsequent increase in both product-
specific and new customer web traffic. a second campaign 
is likely to be launched in the autumn.
overall uK retail gross margin for the Year fell by 120 
basis points to 41.3% (2009: 42.5%). Margin for the second 
half of the Year was 40.9% (2009: 39.6%), impacted by 
comprehensive promotions and clearance of stock in 
advance of the FiFa 2010 World cup (“World cup”).
at the time of the Group’s interim results in december 
2009, we expected sales in the second half to be lower than 
for the same period in 2009, with margin for the Year as a 
whole to be at a similar level to 2009. the actual margin for 
the second half was lower than expected (as noted above) 
but this was more than compensated for by higher than 
expected sales partly arising from the sales generated 
ahead of the World cup.
uK retail like-for-like gross contribution increased by 
3.4% over the 12 month period.
operating costs increased 1.9% to £323.5m (2009: 
£317.6m) in spite of the uK minimum wage increase, an 
increase in floor space and a rise in sales of just over 11%. 
review by business segment
Brands reVenue
£190.5m 
-17.4%
Wholesale 
licensing
2010 2009 2008 2007
£190.5m
£230.5m
£192.6m
£171.9m
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued
retail reVenue
£1,261.1m 
+10.9%
uK retail 
international 
retail 
Wholesale
2010 2009 2008 2007
£1,261.1m
£1,136.8m
£1,066.9m
£1,175.2m sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.9
The Boot Room // Sportsdirect.com store, Shirebrook underlying eBitda for uK retail was £138.7m (2009: 
£107.0m). this increase was driven by a £37.7m increase 
in gross margin (including wholesale), offset by a £5.9m 
increase in operating costs.
during the Year, the office of Fair t rading (oFt) 
investigated our acquisition of stores from JJB sports plc 
(“JJB”), and concluded that in five locations they raised 
some concerns. the oFt subsequently referred the matter 
to the competition commission. on 18 March 2010, the 
competition commission cleared the acquisition of the 31 
stores from JJB and ruled that there was not a substantial 
lessening of competition as a result of those acquisitions, 
nor any adverse effects on customers. We are still dealing 
with the oFt & serious Fraud office (sF o) enquiries. While 
we have heard nothing from the oFt, we have provided the 
sFo with all the information they have required to date, 
and we have reason to hope that the investigation may be 
concluded in the autumn of this year.
the Group’s retail businesses performed strongly in a very 
difficult economic environment. our retail model, offering 
outstanding value to our customers, proved as resilient as 
we expected it to be, both in the uK and internationally.
throughout the Year, we continued to focus on our 
fundamental approach of offering the customer the most 
comprehensive product range and the best availability 
while reducing our costs wherever possible. as ever, store 
portfolio was constantly under review, the performance 
of each store and ways of maximising performance being 
closely examined. We continued to develop our store layout 
and to incentivise our store staff in ways that encourage 
better customer service and performance. our industry 
leading national distribution centre at shirebrook 
continued to deliver efficiencies. By way of example of 
cost control, in our corporate responsibility report we 
describe some of the steps successfully taken to reduce 
our energy consumption at a time when energy costs were 
increasing significantly.
during spring 2010, we started construction work on an 
extension to our national t raining Facility at shirebrook, 
which is located within the on-site store. this exciting 
project involved a complete reorganisation of the store 
layout with new attractive specialist areas being refitted. 
net sales area space increased from 18,000 sq ft to 
25,000 sq ft. the store is now the blueprint for a roll-
out programme of updating our core stores across the 
uK. capital expenditure for this roll-out is included 
in the expected Group capital expenditure for FY11 of 
approximately £35.0m (2010: £19.4m). 
We continued to work well with our major third party  
brand suppliers. nike, umbro, adidas, reebok and puma 
all have their own offices in our shirebrook head office 
which enables us to work very closely with them on a day 
to day basis. 
We were delighted to achieve a notable first with the 
creation of a purpose-built nike t raining academy at the 
shirebrook site. this is the first time nike has entered 
into such a partnership with a retail partner anywhere in 
the world. We are proud to host such a magnificent facility 
which will have its first open day on 21 July 2010 for up to 
300 of our national retail team. 
the academy demonstrates our commitment to develop 
our training of staff in close partnership with our key 
third party brands. We plan to have all permanent sales 
staff attend a training session in the academy within 12 
months of its opening as part of their on-going training and 
personal development. our goal is to have the best trained 
and most knowledgeable staff in uK sports retail.
We continued to build on our store-in-store concept for 
certain key categories where we want to develop our role 
as the destination of choice for serious sportsmen and 
women. our approach to the running category typifies how 
we are doing this, constantly seeking to develop our retail 
offer. since october 2007, we have owned a 25% share in 
Brasher leisure ltd, trading as “sweatshop”, one of the 
leading specialist running retailers in the uK. the strategy 
for the running category within sports direct is to develop 
with sweatshop an attractive new sales area branded 
as “she runs He runs” catering to the growing “main 
stream” runner. these areas deliver on range, availability, 
price, clear merchandising and self help (if preferred) and 
will be further enhanced by the training initiatives being 
driven from our national t raining centre.
installation progress has been swift with 50% of our 300 
core stores already having “she runs He runs” sections. 
the roll-out programme to other stores continues. 
additionally, 75% of stores now feature our specialist 
football “boot room” display area.
the strategy outlined on developing our running category 
will also be applied to certain other sporting areas, many 
of which are in different stages of development. these 
include golf, outdoor and cycling.
on 17 March 2010, the Group made an indicative, non 
binding offer for the entire issued and to be issued share 
capital of Blacks leisure Group plc (“Blacks”) with a view 
to seeking that company’s recommendation. We were 
disappointed that this was not forthcoming. 
uK retail (continued)
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.11
October 2009 // Dunlop Brand Ambassador lee Westwood 
celebrates winning the portugal Masters. on 29 March 2010, sports direct announced that it had 
approached the board of Blacks to advise that it was 
seriously considering a material increase in the level 
of its indicative offer. However, the Group also advised 
that it had become aware of indications that some 
key Blacks suppliers would not supply the company if 
the sports direct offer was successful. sports direct 
requested confirmation of, and the details underlying, 
any such supplier indications to Blacks. in the event, this 
information was neither provided nor denied. accordingly, 
sports direct determined that it would not be in its 
shareholders’ interests formally to submit an offer. 
Blacks subsequently raised additional capital from its 
shareholders. 
We did not participate in this fundraising, believing it not to 
be the best use of the Group’s funds.
as of 25 april 2010, we operated 387 stores in the uK 
(excluding northern ireland), a total retail sales space of 
circa 3.7m sq ft (2009: circa 3.5m sq ft).
during the course of the Year, we opened 34 stores, 
including nine core stores, and closed six, one of which 
was core. We have taken advantage of the weaker property 
market during the Year by taking 19 of the 25 new non-core 
stores on initial temporary lease/licence arrangements. 
this has enabled us to work very closely with landlords 
to exploit opportunities, with a view to converting initial 
temporary stores into long term lease agreements where 
appropriate. 
We currently operate 306 sportsdirect .com fascias, 
19 Field & t rek, three lillywhites and 59 other stores 
(Gilesports, Hargreaves, etc).
retail stores:
2010 
2009
in the 12 months to 25 april 2010, 53 rent reviews have 
been agreed on stores. the average increase in rent was 
9.9% (1.91% annual equivalent). there are currently 80 
rent reviews outstanding with a further 50 falling due in 
2010-11. 
For a number of years, our uK retail division has occupied 
32 stores which are owned by Mike ashley, the Group’s 
major shareholder, under the terms of a five year lease 
dated March 2007. the management intend to discuss with 
shareholders and Mr ashley the possibility of obtaining 
a year’s extension to the current term together with an 
option to purchase these properties during the extension 
period at a price no more than original cost. the option 
would require non-related party shareholder approval and 
would contain terms whereby it would be exercised only if 
it were demonstrably in the Group’s interest to do so.
in the current financial Year, we are targeting to open 
between six and ten new core stores in the uK, excluding 
northern ireland. 
We will continue to open temporary non-core stores as 
suitable opportunities arise and convert as many of these 
as is justified to long term deals. 
 
international retail
international retail sales were up 17.2% to £119.9m  
(2009: £102.3m). on a currency neutral basis, the increase 
was 11.0%.
international retail grew gross margin by 40 basis points 
due to improved stock control.
operating costs within international retail increased by 
16.1% to £42.5m (2009: £36.6m). the increase was less 
than the £8.1m increase in gross margin and, together with 
a £1.5m decrease in income from associates, resulted in 
an increase in underlying eBitda of 5.8% to £12.7m 
(2009: £12.0m).
internationally, as at 25 april 2010 we operated 44 stores 
in Belgium, 12 in slovenia, four in Holland, three in cyprus, 
one in France and one in luxembourg. all of these stores 
are operated by companies wholly owned by the Group. 
We opened seven new stores in europe, including two 
relocations in the period including our first store in France. 
We closed four smaller stores during the Year. as at 25 
april 2010, international retail operated from a total retail 
sales space of c.650,000 sq ft (2009: c.620,000 sq ft.) 
uK retail (continued)
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued
core stores:
non-core stores:
t otal uK stores:
300
87
387
292
67
359
0 400 sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.13
European Golf // Sportsdirect.com store, Shirebrook the Group increased its shareholding in the Heatons chain 
to 50%, up from 42.5%. there are 11 sports direct stores  
in northern ireland and 23 sports stores in the republic  
of ireland.
We continue with our strategy to identify partners in new 
territories while continuing to expand our operations in the 
countries where we currently trade. 
 
Brands 
Brands total revenue reduced 17.4% to £190.5m (2009: 
£230.5.m), driven by our deliberate strategy to change the 
mix of sales from predominantly wholesale to licensing.
Wholesale revenues were down 17.8% to £167.3m (2009: 
£203.6m), in line with this strategy to focus on contribution 
rather than revenue. this strategy is well illustrated by our 
north america market move from wholesale to licensing in 
dunlop Golf.
the market for our Wholesale businesses in the uK, 
europe and the us remain challenging and the customer 
base has been restructured to eliminate unprofitable 
business. 
licensing revenues were down 13.8% to £23.2m (2009: 
£26.9m) which was in line with our expectations and, in 
light of our decision to cancel one significant everlast 
licence, with the attendant costs.
t ough market conditions, particularly in north america, 
resulted in decreased licensing income during the Year 
with key licensees leading to a fall in the level of income in 
excess of the licence minimums. We continue, however, to 
lay the foundations for future growth. during the Year, we 
signed new licence agreements with 71 licensees, covering 
multiple brands and product categories, with minimum 
contracted values of $87m over the terms of  
the agreements.  
longer term, we regard licensing as the key driver for the 
Brands division profitability and growth of the business. 
our resources have been adjusted in order to focus on this 
objective. the main growth areas are expected to be asia 
pacific and the americas.
Brands gross margin improved to 38.9% (2009: 38.3%), 
reflecting the improved mix of sales and a slight 
improvement in wholesale gross margin to 30.4% (2009: 
30.2%). 
operating costs decreased by 23.4% to £54.2m (2009: 
£70.8m), partly as a result of the lower revenue. the 
consolidation of the Brands division management into 
shirebrook continued and costs were tightly controlled as 
systems and working practices were standardised. payroll 
costs in the division reduced significantly.
our continued aim is to limit costs in the 2011 financial 
year such that the wholesale contribution covers operating 
costs and all licensing income is retained as profit.
underlying eBitda increased 11.2% to £19.8m (2009: 
£17.8m) as the decrease in costs of £16.6m was greater 
than the decrease in gross profit of £14.3m.
cash flow in the division was strong with tight working 
capital management resulting in a reduction in stock and 
debtors of £15.1m and £19.6m respectively.
the business continues to sponsor and receive 
endorsements from leading players and tournaments 
including slazenger’s 107th year as the official ball 
supplier for the Wimbledon championships. We believe 
this to be one of the longest continuous sponsorship 
arrangements anywhere in the world. slazenger continues 
to sponsor Matt prior and p aul collingwood and we 
congratulate paul as england’s captain at the recent icc 
World t wenty20 cricket competition where england  
scored a notable victory over australia to win the 
tournament, who were also captained by slazenger 
endorsee Michael clarke.
dunlop has recently signed nikolay davydenko and 
Fernando Verdasco, both ranked in the world’s top 10 
tennis players. lee Westwood, number 3 in the world 
rankings, continues to shine in the world’s top golf 
tournaments under the sponsorship of dunlop apparel.
international retail (continued)
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.15
May 2010 // Slazenger Brand Ambassador & England Captain paul 
Collingwood reacts after scoring the winning runs in the Men’s ICC 
World Twenty20 final match between Australia and England. the Board monitors the performance of the Group by 
reference to a number of key performance indicators 
(Kpi’s), which are discussed fully in this chief executive’s 
report, and also in the Financial review, and in the 
corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 35 and 58 
to 61 respectively. the most important of these Kpi’s are:
For the financial year ended:
25 April 2010 26 april 2009
Financial KpI’s
Group revenue £1,452m £1,367m
underlying eBitda 
(1)
£160.4m £136.8m
uK retail gross margin 41.3% 42.5%
uK retail like-for-like stores gross 
contribution 
(2)
+3.4% +2.5%
underlying earnings per share 
(3)
12.39p 7.93p
Financial KpI’s
no. of core stores 
(4)
300 292
customer complaints % change +4.0% -7.5%
employee turnover 17.0% 29.0%
cardboard recycling 5,847 tonnes 6,007 tonnes
 
(1)
 the way in which underlying eBitda is calculated is set out in the Financial review.
(2)
 like-for-like gross contribution for uK retail is the percentage change in successive 
12 month periods. like-for-like gross contribution is adjusted to eliminate the impact 
of foreign currency movements. a like-for-like store is one that has been trading for the 
full 12 months in both periods, and has not been affected by a significant change such as 
a refit. store gross contribution is the excess of sales revenue (net of Vat) over the cost 
of goods sold. this Kpi excludes online sales revenue. the gross contribution would only 
be adjusted if a significant promotion affected the comparison.
(3)
 the way in which underlying earnings per share is calculated is set out in the 
Financial review.
(4)
 a core store is a store acquired and fitted out by the Group or otherwise so designated.
 
contracts essential to the  
business of the Group
the Group has long established relationships with nike 
and adidas, the major suppliers of third party branded 
sporting goods, particularly footwear, and considers that 
continued supplies from these companies is critical to the 
business of the Group. 
 
the Group’s retail businesses will undoubtedly be affected 
by the economic climate and changes therein. Movements 
in interest rates and exchange rates affect the businesses 
directly and consumer confidence and spending is affected 
by a wide range of factors including employment, tax and 
interest rates, house prices and the general ‘feel good 
factor’, factors beyond the Group’s influence. We are 
relieved that the Government has given plenty of warning 
that the Vat increase to 20% will not take place until 4 
January 2011.
all of the above apply equally to our Brands businesses, 
both wholesale and licensing. reduction in customer 
demand is reflected in the wholesaling and licensing 
business, as orders and royalties are affected. Moreover, in 
difficult economic times, suppliers come under increasing 
pressure to reduce their prices to their customers and all 
suppliers run the risk of their customers ceasing to trade, 
reducing demand for their products. difficult economic 
conditions can also make it difficult for suppliers to obtain 
credit insurance in respect of some customers, leaving 
the supplier with a difficult question of whether or not to 
supply and, if they do, with the attendant risk of bad debts.
later in this report, we comment on risks and 
uncertainties that relate to the Group’s businesses and 
while we manage to reduce risks, where possible, the 
likelihood of their occurring and their impact if they do, 
they are factors that could influence the Group or part of it.
the Group is now applying hedge accounting, which is in 
line with other major retailers. this will reduce an element 
of potential volatility in reported profit.
 
environmental matters 
a review of the assessment of the Group’s impact on the 
environment is included in the corporate responsibility 
report on page 58. 
 
employees 
in no small measure, the progress we continue to make 
is down to the dedication and expertise of over 17,000 
staff throughout the business. i am delighted to take 
this opportunity to thank everyone in the team for their 
outstanding contribution and i look forward to working with 
them towards our further growth and success. 
Key performance indicators
Main trends and factors likely to 
affect the future development and 
performance of the Group’s businesses
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.17
Nike football // Sportsdirect.com store, Belgium We intend to incentivise staff further by enabling them to 
share in the Group’s success through a new Bonus share 
scheme for which we will seek approval at the a GM. the 
Bonus share scheme is focused on underlying eBitda. it 
is designed to motivate colleagues, help improve retention 
of key employees and to align the interests of employees 
and shareholders. the share scheme is also aligned with 
the Group’s business plan.
all permanent uK employees in uK retail, Brands and 
Head office with at least one year’s service participated in 
the 2009/10 Bonus share scheme. 
the bonus is in two stages. the first bonus is 25% of base 
pay in shares of £1.00 per share. the first bonus target was 
underlying eBitda of £155m in 2009-10 and was achieved  
in the Year. the first bonus will vest in two years’ time and 
is subject to continuous employment until then. the bonus 
targets are stretch targets and are net of scheme costs.
the second bonus is 75% of base pay in shares of £1.25 per 
share. the second stage of the bonus is conditional upon 
the first bonus target being met in 2009-10, which has 
already been achieved, and the second bonus targets are 
underlying eBitda of £195m in 2010-2011, and underlying 
eBitda/net debt ratio of two or less at the end of 2010-11. 
the shares vest, subject to continuous employment until 
then, two years after the second bonus targets are met. 
proposals will be put forward to shareholders at the 
forthcoming aGM to extend and revise the Bonus share 
scheme for subsequent periods.
 
shirebrook campus
the Group continues to invest in infrastructure, and the 
process of consolidating the Brands business, including 
acquired businesses, at shirebrook continues.
 
risks are an inherent part of the business world. the 
Group has identified the following factors as potential risks 
to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation 
of its business.
suppl Y cHain 
any disruption or other adverse event affecting the 
Group’s relationship with any of its major manufacturers 
or suppliers, or a failure to replace any of its major 
manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable 
terms, could have an adverse effect on the Group’s 
business, operating profit or overall financial condition.
ForeiGn excHanGe risK 
the Group operates internationally and is exposed to 
foreign exchange risk arising from various currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to the us dollar and 
euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial 
transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are 
denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s 
functional currency, as exchange rates move. 
as explained previously, in the Group’s case, the majority 
of foreign exchange contracts relating to the sourcing 
of Group branded goods are denominated in us dollars, 
and a strengthening of the dollar or a weakening of the 
pound sterling makes those goods more expensive. 
these expenses are hedged via forward foreign currency 
contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
the Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, 
and these assets are revalued in accordance with currency 
movements. this currency risk is not hedged.
interest rate risK 
the Group has net borrowings, which are principally at 
floating interest rates linked to bank base rates or liBor. 
credit risK 
the Group, primarily through its Brands division, could 
have a credit risk if credit evaluations were not performed 
on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. 
the Group does not require collateral in respect of 
financial assets. 
FundinG and liquiditY risK 
Funding and liquidity for the Group’s operations are 
provided through bank loans, overdrafts and shareholders 
funds. the object is to maintain sufficient funding and 
liquidity for the Group’s requirements, but the availability 
of adequate cash resources from bank facilities and 
achieving continuity of funding in the current financial 
climate could be a risk to the Group in future years.
employees (continued)
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued
risks and uncertainties relating  
to the Group’s business sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.19
Karrimor sponsored climber, Dave pickford inVestMent risK 
the Group also holds shares in publicly listed companies 
and fluctuations in their share prices will have a financial 
impact on the business results.
reliance on non uK ManuF acturers 
the Group is reliant on manufacturers in developing 
countries as the majority of the Group’s products are 
sourced from outside the uK. the Group is therefore 
subject to the risks associated with international trade and 
transport as well as those relating to exposure to different 
legal and other standards.
pensions
some subsidiaries in the Group make contributions to 
certain occupational defined benefits pension schemes. 
an increase in the scheme’s funding needs or changes 
to obligations in respect of the schemes could have an 
adverse impact on its business.
MarKet F orces 
the sports retail industry is highly competitive and the 
Group currently competes at national and local levels with 
a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes who may have 
competitive advantages, and new competitors may enter 
the market. such competition continues to place pressure 
on the Group’s pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
operational
any significant disruption to the operations of the Group, 
divisional head offices and the national distribution centre 
at shirebrook, or interruption to the smooth running of 
the Group’s fleet of vehicles, might significantly impact its 
ability to manage its operations, distribute products to its 
stores and maintain its supply chain.
any long term interruption of the Group’s it systems 
would have a significant impact on the Group’s operation, 
particularly in the retail division.
Business continuitY and acts oF terrorisM 
the majority of the Group’s revenue is derived from the 
uK and accordingly any terrorist attacks, armed conflicts 
or government actions within the uK could result in a 
significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would 
in turn have an adverse affect on sales in stores. 
leG al
the Group’s trade marks, patents, designs and other 
intellectual property rights are central to the value of 
the Group brands. third parties may try to challenge the 
ownership or counterfeit the Group’s intellectual property. 
the Group may need to resort to litigation in the future to 
enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation 
could result in substantial costs and a diversion of 
resources. 
the Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, agents 
and distributors are in material compliance with 
employment, environmental and other laws. the violation, 
or allegations of a violation, of such laws or regulations, 
by any of the Group’s licensees, suppliers, agents or 
distributors, could lead to adverse publicity and a decline 
in public demand for the Group’s products, or require 
the Group to incur expenditure or make changes to its 
supply chain and other business arrangements to ensure 
compliance.
sales
the Group’s retail businesses are subject to seasonal 
peaks. the incidence and participation in major sporting 
events will have a particular impact on the uK retail 
business. prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or 
temporary severe weather during peak trading seasons 
could also have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
businesses.
consuMers
the Group’s success and sales are dependent, in part, on 
the strength and reputation of the brands it sells, and are 
subject to consumers’ perceptions of the Group and of its 
products, which can fall out of favour. adverse publicity 
concerning any of the Group brands or manufacturers 
or suppliers could lead to substantial erosion in the 
reputation of, or value associated with, the Group
enVironMental 
environmental disasters such as the recent volcanic ash 
cloud have highlighted how it is impossible to predict how 
an environmental occurrence will affect businesses.
the Group constantly updates systems to mitigate any 
delay or loss of goods in transit or the absence of any 
employee or large numbers of employees that they may or 
may not be altered by acts of nature. 
 
research and development
the Group’s success depends on the strength of the Group 
brands and, to a lesser extent, the licensed-in brands. the 
Group’s efforts to continually develop or obtain brands in a 
timely manner or at all may be unsuccessful.
 
 
risks and uncertainties relating to 
the Group’s business (continued)
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.21
Nike shoe wall // Sportsdirect.com store, liverpool the identification and management of risk is a continuous 
process, and the Group’s system of internal controls and 
the Group’s business continuity programmes are key 
elements of that. the Group maintains a system of controls 
to manage the business and to protect its assets. We 
continue to invest in people, systems and in it to manage 
the Group’s operations and its finances effectively and 
efficiently.
the Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to 
risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. credit evaluations 
are performed on all customers requiring credit over 
a certain amount, and concentration of credit risk is 
managed. investment of cash surplus, borrowings and 
derivative investments are made through banks and 
companies which have credit ratings and investment 
criteria approved by the Board.
the Group’s follows policies of forging long term 
relationships with suppliers and of utilising two leading 
supply chain companies to procure much of the Group’s 
own branded goods is described on page 61 in the 
corporate responsibility report. 
Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-uK 
suppliers, and to the reputation of the Group’s brands are 
managed and mitigated by the implementation of those 
policies.
close monitoring of the market, competitors, the economy, 
consumer confidence, participation in major sporting 
events, the weather, companies in which the Group 
holds strategic stakes, the behaviour of licensees, and 
of possible infringement of intellectual property, and the 
development of contingency plans and rapid response 
to changing circumstances manages and does much to 
mitigate the risks caused by these factors.
the Group maintains close contact with its bank and made 
contact with other banks so as to begin to address the 
renewal of its facilities during 2010/11. the Group is cash 
generative and taken steps to reduce the level of debt 
and has no reason to believe that refinancing will not be 
available on acceptable terms.
the business continuity programme addresses the risk 
of disruption to the shirebrook campus. accordingly the 
Board is confident that as far as is practical the risks and 
uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored and 
managed and that where required appropriate action is 
being taken.
We are confident that the Group is well placed to deliver 
significant further growth in the future. our focus remains 
strongly on growing the core uK retail business by 
continuing to drive efficiencies and deliver the unrivalled 
value for money which our growing customer base has 
come to expect, while developing our offering in specialist 
sports categories. We have established an excellent 
platform for growth which we will build on with our 
proposed eBitda related share bonus scheme. 
outside the uK, our Brands business will focus on 
licensing opportunities and will continue to restructure 
the wholesale businesses. We will continue to invest in our 
brands through advertising and promotion. 
We believe that acquisitions and strategic investments in 
other related businesses are beneficial to the Group and 
we will continue to evaluate opportunities as they arise 
while, for the time being, remaining mindful of the priority 
to reduce debt.
 
current trading/FiFa World cup 2010
 
the build up to the World cup started during spring 2010 
with the launch of the umbro “away” red shirt on 3 March. 
t rade in this period was as strong as expected culminating 
in the strongest trading day that the company has ever 
experienced on the day of the usa match. We continue to 
offer the most comprehensive range of england branded 
products including special edition shirts as well as name 
and number personalisation. also, this was the first FiFa 
World cup for the online store and both traffic and sales 
have grown significantly.
unfortunately, the period during the tournament was less 
successful and sales correlated with the poor performance 
of the england team and the negative mood this created 
amongst fans and consumers. 
our buying team had followed the seedings and we were 
confident of at least a “last eight” outcome for england, 
so exiting the tournament before that meant in effect that 
we were one game short (although this was exacerbated 
by the disappointing performance in the four games). 
therefore, the negative impact of clearing the excess stock 
will offset some of the positive pre-tournament trade. 
nevertheless, current uK retail trading remains well 
ahead of the same period last year. 
 
 
Management and mitigation of risk
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW //
chief executive’s report
continued
our strategy for growth  sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.23
April 2010 // lonsdale Brand Ambassador 
Carl Froch knocks down Mikkel Kessler of 
Denmark during their Super Six WBC  
Super Middleweight title fight looking ahead, although we shall have to manage the 
impact of the announced increase in Vat in January 2011, 
we are confident that initiatives we are taking across 
all areas of the Group, including improved staff training 
and new, specialist in-store merchandising areas, put 
us in a strong position for the next phase of our growth. 
We believe we are operationally stronger than ever. 
accordingly, and assuming no significant deterioration 
in economic conditions, we are targeting FY11 Group 
underlying eBitda of around £195m.
 
Dave Forsey 
chief executive
22 July 2010
outlook
chief executive’s report
continued
section 2 // THE BUSINESS REVIEW // sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.25
puma shoe wall // Sportsdirect.com store, Shirebrook
