 I am also pleased to confirm that the expansion of the Shirebrook Sports Direct store is now complete, including the addition of a c.9,000 sq. ft. dedicated Nike area and the 
opening of a USC store alongside. We will shortly commence work on Phase 3 of our Shirebrook campus expansion; the construction of an additional c.600,000 sq. ft. warehouse 
and office extension which will be pivotal in facilitating our ambitious plans for growth.
I note also that the Group has recently signed a new £688m committed, unsecured revolving credit facility which will remain in place until September 2018, providing a strong 
foundation on which to deliver our growth plans over the next four years. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC REPORT
I am delighted to report the Group exceeded its targets for another year. We have maintained our position as the number one sports retailer in 
the UK while reinforcing our status as the Consumers’ Champion, as demonstrated by our wide product range and value for money offering.
The Group’s strategy of international expansion remains on course, with the acquisition of Sports Eybl and Sports Experts Group (EAG) in 
Austria, and Sportland International Group (SIG) in the Baltic region. 
EMPLOYEE BONUS SHARE SCHEME 
The Group’s Employee Bonus Share Schemes are some of the most wide-reaching and 
generous share schemes in the UK. The adoption of such schemes has proven highly 
effective at both motivating and remunerating our colleagues, and the performance 
of the Group has gone from strength to strength since the initial scheme was first 
approved by shareholders in September 2009.
The second and final award under the 2009 Employee Bonus Share Scheme vested 
in August 2013, with over 19 million shares being distributed to a deserving c.2,000 
employees. The high level of rewards for eligible participants has also proven key to 
employee retention, and we credit a great deal of our continued success to our  
loyal workforce.
The motivation and retention of our key employees has also contributed substantially 
towards the Group significantly out-performing the 2011 Employee Bonus Share 
Scheme underlying EBITDA (before scheme costs) targets for FY12, FY13 and FY14. I 
am convinced that the Group has the right team in place to achieve the FY15 EBITDA 
target, and I look forward to seeing the scheme vest in both 2015 and 2017.
The Group recently proposed a 2015 Bonus Share Scheme to its shareholders under 
which employees and the Executive Directors would be eligible to participate subject to 
the achievement of EBITDA targets for the years FY16 to FY19. I am pleased to note that 
the new Scheme was approved at a General Meeting on 2 July 2014. 
On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their support and 
participation in this process. Sports Direct’s Employee Bonus Share Schemes are some 
of the most successful employee reward schemes in the UK. The success of these 
schemes is demonstrated by the substantial shareholder value created over the last 
five years.
THE BOARD 
During the year Bob Mellors, the Group Finance Director, retired. His dedication 
and commitment to the Group cannot be understated and we wish him well in his 
retirement. The recruitment of a replacement is on-going. 
We are interviewing internal and external candidates to ensure that the new post holder 
displays the qualities required by a FTSE 100 company.
We are aware of Lord Davies’ target of achieving Board diversity by ensuring a 
minimum of 25% of the Board are female by 2015. However any appointment will 
be based on the skills and expertise of the individual. The Board is still giving 
consideration to how the 25% target will be met. Further details relating to the 
recruitment of the Finance Director can be found on page 27.
WEBSITE 
During the year significant time has been spent on updating the Group’s corporate 
website. The updated site was launched during December 2013 and is easy to navigate 
for both potential investors and current shareholders alike. New features to the site 
include interactive share price charts, brands footage and alerts to subscribers 
following Group announcements. The site also incorporates links to additional 
resources such as our online store and careers site.
DIVIDEND 
Consistent with the recent practice, the Board has decided not to propose a dividend 
in relation to FY14. The Board remains of the opinion that it is in the best interests of 
the Group and its shareholders to preserve financial flexibility, facilitating the pursuit 
of potential acquisition and other growth opportunities. The payment of dividends 
remains under review in future years.
CONCLUSION 
The Board and I would like to show our gratitude to our employees for the enormous 
contribution they have made during the year. Our results reflect their very hard work 
and dedication which should never be taken for granted. I look to the year ahead with 
optimism. Despite the difficult financial circumstances many of our customers find 
themselves in we believe our compelling value proposition will allow us to achieve 
continued success.
 
Dr Keith Hellawell QPM  
Non-Executive Chairman
17 July 2014
FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19
2015 SCHEME 2011 SCHEME 2009 SCHEME
    2009 & 2011 SCHEME ACHIEVED              2011 SCHEME TARGETS              2015 SCHEME TARGETS
£155m
£195m
£215m
£250m
£260m
£300m
£480m
£570m
£650m
£750m
UNDERLYING EBITDA TARGETS 
(Before Scheme Costs)
6 
