 the Group’s uK stores (other than Field & t rek) supply 
a wide range of competitively priced sports and leisure 
equipment, clothing, footwear and accessories, under 
a mix of brands. We stock third party brands including 
adidas, nike, reebok and puma. Group owned brands 
include dunlop, slazenger and lonsdale and we also  
use licensed in brands. 
a significant proportion of the revenue in the stores is 
derived from the sale of the Group owned and licensed 
in branded products, which allows the retail business 
to generate higher margins, whilst at the same time 
differentiating the Group’s stores from its competitors, 
both in terms of the range of products on sale and the 
competitive prices at which they are offered. 
Field & t rek operates out of 19 stores in the uK,  
selling a wide range of camping and outdoor equipment, 
waterproof clothing and footwear, including leading  
brands such as Berghaus, Merrell and salomon. 
the acquisition of Field & t rek gave the Group an entry 
into the outdoor market, which had been identified as a 
strategic opportunity for the Group, and that has been 
strengthened following the acquisition of universal  
cycles by the introduction of a range of cycle products  
in both stores and online.
as at 25 april 2010 the Group operated out of 387 stores 
in the united Kingdom (excluding northern ireland). the 
majority of stores trade under the sportsdirect .com 
fascia, although Field & t rek stores trade under their  
own fascia.
 
Where we are 
the Group has retail interests outside the uK and has 
a flexible approach to entry into new markets. these 
interests include wholly owned retail outlets (in Belgium, 
Holland, luxembourg and slovenia trading as sports 
direct), joint ventures with other retailers (such as in 
Heatons stores in northern ireland and the republic of 
ireland) stores within another retailer’s store  
(as in cyprus).
section 1 // OVERVIEW // 
What we do
sports direct is the uK’s leading 
sports retailer by revenue and 
operating profit, and the owner of a 
significant number of internationally 
recognised sports and leisure brands. 
sports direct at a glance
a brief overview of our business sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.3
the Group’s portfolio includes a wide variety of 
internationally recognisable sport and fashion brands.  
the Group’s retail division sells products under these 
Group brands in its stores, and the Brands division exploits 
the brands through its wholesale and licensing businesses.
the Brands division wholesale business sells the  
brands’ core products, such as dunlop tennis rackets  
and slazenger tennis balls, to wholesale customers  
and distributors throughout the world, obtaining far  
wider distribution for these products than would be  
the case if their sale was restricted to Group stores.  
the wholesale business also wholesales childrenswear 
and other clothing. 
the licensing business licenses third parties to apply 
Group owned brands to non-core products manufactured 
and distributed by those third parties, and third parties  
are currently licensed in different product areas in over  
100 countries. the Brands division is closely involved in  
the development of licensed products and monitors 
licensees and their manufacturers to ensure product 
quality, presentation and consistency with the appropriate 
brand strategy. 
the Brands division continue to sponsor a variety of 
prestigious events and retain a base of globally recognised, 
high profile sports men and women. 
in tennis, slazenger continues to be the official ball 
supplier for the Wimbledon championships and dunlop’s 
professional tour team continues to grow, with the recent 
additions of Fernando Verdasco and nikolay davydenko, 
both ranked in the world’s top 10 tennis players.
Golfers darren clarke and in particular lee Westwood 
continue to shine in major tournaments under the 
sponsorship of dunlop.
international cricket captains paul collingwood & Michael 
clarke continue to be sponsored by slazenger whilst other 
sports such as badminton and squash continue to provide 
brand exposure for carlton and dunlop respectively. 
the portfolio of boxing brands within the Group remains 
strong as lonsdale celebrates 50 years and everlast 100 
years as specialists in manufacturing combat sports 
equipment and apparel. Both brands have a stable of 
sponsored boxers and mixed martial arts fighters that 
continues to grow.
our Brands
RETAIl
87% of Group sales
BRANDS
13% of Group sales
