 the group operates through four strategic business segments: uk sports retail, 
international retail, premium lifestyle and brands.
SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE
UK SPORTS RETAIL
£1,575m 75% of total revenue
the group’s uk stores (other than field & t rek) supply a wide range of competitively priced sports and 
leisure equipment, clothing, footwear and accessories under a mix of brands. w e stock third-party 
brands including adidas, nike, r eebok and puma. group-owned brands include dunlop, slazenger and 
lonsdale. w e also sell licensed-in brands.
as at 28 april 2013 uk sports r etail operated out of 396 stores in the united kingdom (excluding 
northern ireland). the majority of stores trade under the sportsdirect .com fascia, although field & 
trek stores trade under their own fascia.
w e have continued to develop our specialised in-store areas with a substantial unitary rollout for our 
dunlop and everlast brands. our sherunsheruns areas also benefited from a rollout of the karrimor 
running footwear zone, featuring an integrated product information and selection panel.
INTERNATIONAL RETAIL
£185m  
9% of total revenue
the group’s extensive interests outside the uk include wholly 
owned retail outlets, joint ventures with other retailers and 
stores within another retailer’s store. during the year, as 
part of the accelerated growth programme in our european 
subsidiary, we opened 19 new stores in europe and entered 
four new countries, including a new store in iceland with a 
joint venture partner and wholly owned stores in slovakia, 
hungary and the czech r epublic. our strategy remains to 
identify partners in new territories while continuing to expand 
our operations in the countries where we currently trade.
PREMIUM LIFESTYLE
£128m  
6% of total revenue
during the year we have continued our expansion of the 
premium lifestyle division. in July 2012 we purchased the 
flannels group, and in february 2013, 114 stores and certain 
assets were acquired from the administrators of the fashion 
retailer r epublic. both acquisitions expand the breadth of our 
premium offering. post year end we have also acquired the 
remaining 20% stake in cruise clothing limited.
BRANDS
£209m  
10% of total revenue
the group’s portfolio includes a wide variety of world-famous 
sport, fashion and lifestyle brands. the group’s r etail division 
sells products under these group brands in its stores, and the 
brands division exploits the brands through its wholesale  
and licensing businesses.
the brands division continues to sponsor a variety of 
prestigious events and retains a base of globally-recognised, 
high-profile sportsmen and women.
Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013
4  identify brand acquisitions and property enhancement
invest store portfolio and employees
develop w ebsite and mcommerce, enhanced product ranges
promote group-owned brands
achieve targets and group success
the group’s
KEY PRINCIPLES:
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
our business model is focused on long-term sustainable growth. whilst the central focus remains on growing and developing the 
core uk r etail business, development of our brands and international r etail are also key priorities. our offering has developed further 
in specialist sports categories and more fashion-based retailing. w e are constantly refurbishing and upgrading our stores, in order 
to provide our customers with a compelling consumer experience. the continued development of our dedicated specialist areas and 
on-going collaboration with nike, adidas and p uma on in-store concepts are further examples of this.
acquisitions and strategic investments in related businesses are an important 
part of our strategy. opportunities to develop into new product categories or 
markets, or to strengthen our position in existing areas, will continue to be 
considered on a case by case basis.
w e aim to maintain our position as the market leader in the uk sports r etail 
sector. the business model provides guidance for the group to implement an 
effective growth strategy to maintain and develop the success achieved so far. 
it compares our recent successes with our future ambitions in order that we can 
assess how to progress in the future.
the group has significant momentum and we must ensure that our product 
offering and customer proposition continue to grow and develop in order to retain 
our current customer base and to attract more customers in the future. 
developing brand awareness is a key factor in ensuring a sustainable future, and 
the appropriate level of investment in advertising and technology is an important 
component towards achieving this. 
our international presence continues to grow through over 300 brand licensing 
partners, our online presence and on-going european store openings. the group’s 
appointment of internationally recognised celebrities and sporting professionals 
as key ambassadors also promotes our brands endorsement on a global basis. 
5 GROUP BRANDS
sports & leisure  lee westwood endorses dunlop clothing only 
LEE WESTWOOD 
dunlop brand ambassador   CARL FROCH
ibf and wba super-middleweight champion
lonsdale brand ambassador  CARL FROCH
ibf and wba super-middleweight champion
lonsdale brand ambassador GROUP BRANDS
f ashion & lifestyle  
