 in common with other sectors of the economy, market 
conditions in sports retail remained challenging 
throughout the period under review. our focus remained 
firmly fixed on doing what we do best – providing 
consumers with the widest possible range of the best 
products at the most competitive prices available. our 
aim is to offer quality footwear, clothing and equipment 
for every category of customer from the fashion conscious 
to serious competitors. the Group has a robust business 
model, whose worth has been proved once again this year 
in the delivery of strong results from the Group.
in addition to exceeding our expectations outlined 12 
months ago in terms of both profit performance and debt 
reduction, we are pleased with our sales performance both 
in the stores themselves but also with the increased sales 
in our growing internet business. We continued to develop 
our international store network and were pleased with 
progress made in changing the balance of sales mix from 
wholesale to licensing in the Brands division. We made 
significant progress in our debt reduction programme 
during the year, paying down £119m, and intend to 
continue to reduce debt further in the coming year. this  
is a key consideration in the decision not to pay a final 
dividend this year. 
partnerships with world famous suppliers such as nike 
and adidas, to name only two, are critically important 
to our business and we value such relationships highly. 
We are delighted to be creating a unique nike t raining 
academy at our shirebrook headquarters in partnership 
with nike where sports direct staff will benefit from 
extensive, specialist training in the current nike range  
as well as likely future developments. this is the first 
time nike has joined with a retail partner in such a facility 
anywhere in the world. We welcome this innovative 
extension of our relationship with a valued third party 
supplier as well as the opportunity to take our staff 
training standards on to a new, industry leading level. 
the announcement in august 2009 of the competition 
commission’s interest in our acquisition of 31 stores from 
JJB sports plc and the potential investigation into our 
affairs by the office of Fair t rading and the serious Fraud 
office caused concern and reflected adversely on our share 
price. We were pleased, but not surprised, by our complete 
exoneration by the competition commission in March 2010 
and are doing all that we can to help and facilitate the 
other regulatory bodies to reach the same conclusion as 
soon as possible. 
We have provided the sFo with all the information they 
have requested to date and we have reason to hope the 
investigation may be concluded in the autumn.
as previously announced, the Board is sorry to lose 
non-executive director Malcolm dalgleish who has 
decided to stand down at the next aGM. We thank him 
for his contribution and will miss his wise counsel. We 
are pursuing the appointment of a replacement and will 
update shareholders in due course. 
Management remains determined to provide the best 
products at the most competitive price in the market place. 
We will continue to expand the number of stores, develop 
further strategic partnerships and enhance our product 
range and customer experience. We are determined to 
strengthen our position as the uK’s leading sports retailer 
and will expand our foothold on mainland europe. 
Finally, on behalf of the Board, i would like to thank all our 
employees whose commitment and expertise have helped 
us to meet our 2010 targets and to deliver a strong set of 
results in what continues to be a challenging economic 
environment. on a personal note, i am delighted to join 
such a talented and hard working team and am confident 
that significant further Group success lies ahead. 
 
Keith Hellawell 
non-executive chairman 
 
22 July 2010
section 1 // OVERVIEW // 
chairman’s statement sports direct international plc // annual report 2010 // p.5
Nike Academy // Shirebrook Training Centre
