 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
i am pleased to announce that the group has continued to perform strongly, both operationally and financially.  
the rate of growth has increased across the business with revenue and ebitda growing impressively. 
the group has delivered strong cash generation and our balance sheet remains 
solid. our position as the consumers’ champion, offering an unmatched range 
of products at the best available prices, is now reaching more countries as we 
continue to expand internationally.
w e are constantly looking for new ways of improving our business. w e invest 
heavily in staff training to help them achieve their full potential. our in-house 
programmes have continued in conjunction with our key partners nike, adidas 
and puma. w e focus on both shop floor-based and classroom activities. 
they include key elements of professionalism such as product knowledge, 
communication, leadership and decision making. the integration of a bespoke 
online training platform, to provide new starters with a thorough induction to the 
business, is one example of innovative training techniques deployed throughout 
the group.
w e are pleased that construction and integration of the phase 2 extension to 
the shirebrook distribution centre has been completed, and the extension to 
the sportsdirect.com store at shirebrook is now underway and completion is 
scheduled for later in 2013. 
our p remium lifestyle division is continuing to grow through acquisitions  
such as the flannels group in July 2012 and r epublic in february 2013.  
w e continue to nurture this division and are already seeing increases in sales 
from earlier acquisitions.
the board’s aim to expand further into europe has been a key strategic driver  
for a number of years which has proved extremely successful. since the start  
of fy13, we have organically grown our store portfolio in europe by 19 new 
stores, and entered four new countries. in conjunction with the acquisitions 
recently announced in austria and the baltics, we are now active in 19  
european countries.
international r etail revenue grew 20.1% in the year and we have continued 
our international growth by opening stores in poland and spain during the first 
quarter of fy14.
the introduction of the sportsdirect.com website platform in 2006 provided the 
group with another route to market and means of serving our customers. w e 
have continued to invest in this platform and the benefits are now clearly being 
recognised. online sales have increased from 11.6% of our total sports r etail 
revenue in fy12 to 15.0% in fy13.
our online offering provides an excellent opportunity to expand the range and 
value of products available to our customers, reinforcing our position as the 
consumers’ champion by delivering exceptional quality at unbeatable value.  
w e have a dedicated web team who run the website, marketing to our 
customers with promotions and campaigns to encourage sales. promotions  
such as daily deals have proved successful and we will continue to invest time 
and resources in further developing our multi-channel offering.
Employee Bonus Share Scheme 
i am delighted to report that the second and final part of the 2009 employee 
bonus share scheme will vest to our valued employees in august 2013. 
i hope that all the employees who have contributed towards the group’s 
performance will enjoy their well-earned bonuses. due to their hard work and 
dedication, the group continues to perform so strongly. the financial rewards 
have already made a huge difference to so many employees. with over 2,000 
colleagues eligible for the second award, it remains a key part of our employee 
incentivisation and remuneration strategy.
the group is well on its way to achieving the targets set under the 2011 
employee bonus share scheme with the fy12 and fy13 underlying ebitda 
targets successfully achieved. although there are a further two targets to be 
met, i am delighted by the progress to date.
the 2011 employee bonus share scheme has the following targets for group 
underlying ebitda (before scheme costs):
fy12: fy13: fy14: fy15: 
£215m £250m £260m £300m
ACHIEVED ACHIEVED
i have no doubt this scheme will run as successfully as the 2009 employee 
bonus share scheme ensuring that our staff remain incentivised.
Super Stretch Internal Targets 
the board has decided not to propose the super- stretch executive bonus share 
scheme (“super- stretch scheme”) for mike ashley, the company’s executive 
deputy chairman, at the upcoming annual general meeting. the board will 
continue to focus on the super-stretch underlying ebitda (before schemes 
costs) targets of £310m for fy14 and £360m for fy15 and these will remain 
internal targets going forward. however the board has decided to review various 
options with regard to remunerating mike ashley in light of the passage of time 
since first considering this scheme.
Pension Scheme 
the enrolment of our employees into the government’s auto-enrolment pension 
scheme took place in may 2013. 
the scheme is administered by the p eople’s pension and is available to all 
employees who are deemed eligible under the government’s criteria.  
the group is committed to meeting the targets of a 1% contribution in 2013, 
a 2% contribution in 2017 and a 3% contribution in 2018. w e also contribute 
towards a number of workplace pensions in relation to companies which we 
have acquired. 
Dividend 
the board has decided not to propose a dividend in respect to fy13. the  
board feels that it remains in the best interests of the company and its 
shareholders to maintain financial and strategic flexibility, including pursuit 
of potential acquisition opportunities and ongoing investment in group 
infrastructure and store portfolio. the payment of dividends will remain under 
review for consideration in future years.
Conclusion 
finally, on behalf of myself and the board, i would like to thank all of our 
employees for their substantial contribution during the year.
Keith Hellawell 
non-executive chairman 
18 July 2013
17
The Business Review management & governance financial statements & notes additional information
