 The Group’s Sports Retail stores (other than Field & Trek) supply a wide range of competitively priced sports and leisure equipment, clothing, footwear and accessories 
under a mix of brands. We stock third-party brands including adidas, Nike, Reebok and Puma. Group-owned brands include Dunlop, Slazenger and Lonsdale. We also 
sell licensed-in brands.
We have continued to develop our specialised in-store areas with a substantial unitary rollout for our Dunlop and Everlast brands. Our SheRunsHeRuns areas also 
benefited from a rollout of the Karrimor running footwear zone, featuring an integrated product information and selection panel.
As at 27 April 2014 Sports Retail operated out of 418 stores in the United Kingdom (excluding Northern Ireland). The majority of stores trade under the  
SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia, although Field & Trek stores trade under their own fascia.
In Europe, the Group’s growth has proven unrelenting, with our products being offered via wholly-owned retail outlets, joint ventures with other retailers and stores 
within another retailer’s store. The acquisition of Sport Eybl and Sports Experts AG (EAG), and a controlling interest in Sportland International Group (SIG) alone 
increased the store portfolio by 135 stores in five countries.
During the year, as part of the accelerated growth programme in our European subsidiary, we opened 10 new stores in Europe and entered two new countries,  
opening stores in Poland and Spain. Our strategy remains to identify partners in new territories while continuing to expand our operations in the countries where  
we currently trade.
Read more about Sports Retail on pages 13 to 15
SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group operates through three strategic business segments: 
Sports Retail, Premium Lifestyle and Brands.
Sports Retail 
£2,274.4m
84.1
% T O T A L R E V E N U E
4  Our Premium Lifestyle division continued to evolve and expand with the 
purchase of the remaining 20% of Cruise during May 2013. During the year 
53 Republic stores changed to the USC fascia, more than doubling the USC 
portfolio to 90 stores.
The division is a premier destination for branded clothing, footwear and 
accessories. Catering to dedicated fashion followers and trend alert men 
and women throughout the UK, it is home to an extensive collection of 
mainstream and independent footwear and apparel brands including G Star, 
Diesel & Vero Moda.
Read more about the Premium Lifestyle division on page 16
The Brands division exploits Group portfolio brands by not only retailing 
in store, but also via wholesale, licensing and sponsorship. The variety of 
selling methods ensures that our brands reach a larger audience and that 
they obtain a far wider distribution than if they were limited to retailing 
within the Group.
The division has maintained its high visibility in the worldwide media 
through on-going sponsorship of high-profile sports personalities.  
Recently-added faces of our Group brands include Gemma Atkinson  
and Ashley Roberts.
Read more about our Brands division on page 16
STRATEGIC REPORT
Premium Lifestyle 
£214.1m
Brands 
£217.5m
8.0 
% T O T A L R E V E N U E
7.9 
% T O T A L R E V E N U E
SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 5
