 ATH Resources plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2006 04
Operational review
The surface mining business has continued 
to perform in line with expectations.
Skares Road moved into a new area of operation 
in October 2005 which, although higher in operational 
stripping ratio, yields good quality coal and mitigates 
the overall restoration cost. This site, which initially 
was to have been a 3m tonne ﬁve year site will 
now end up producing some 6m tonnes worked 
over ten years.
The Garleffan site ceased production in June 2006 
and has since moved into restoration. The site 
will be restored over the coming two years 
to produce a wetland and protected nesting 
ground. The restoration plan has won the 
Coal Authority’s annual Environmental Award.
Grievehill was granted an extension of 0.4m 
tonnes during the year which will keep the site 
in production until September 2007. A further 
1.0m tonne extension is to be applied for in the 
near future.
“ The acquisition of ATH Ogden has provided 
the Group with a suitable complementary 
diversiﬁcation from our core surface mining 
activity and we will endeavour to derive added 
value from this over the coming year.” 
04.  The former colliery tip at Grimethorpe is being processed to recover coal 
whilst at the same time restoring the site to public access park land.
05.  A team of development engineers are based at the Group’s head ofﬁce 
in Doncaster. They work on all aspects of site identiﬁcation, planning and 
design using a 3D CAD system.
06.  Coal at Glenmuckloch is being stockpiled ahead of the completion of 
the conveyor.
Chief executive’s statement
04
_1_ATH_2006arf.indd   4 12/12/2006   11:54:40 05 ATH Resources plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2006
Glenmuckloch was opened up successfully during 
the autumn and has been producing coal to plan. 
Dispatch of coal from the site is awaiting the 
completion of a 12 km conveyor which is to link 
the three sites of Glenmuckloch, Grievehill 
and Laigh Glenmuir to the Group’s railhead 
at Crowbandsgate. Whilst the commencement 
of construction of this conveyor was delayed 
in obtaining the necessary consents, the Group’s 
performance through the construction phase 
has been outstanding.
The conveyor, which is in the ﬁnal stages 
of commissioning and beneﬁts from a freight 
facility grant from the Scottish Executive, will 
be the longest over land conveyor in Europe. 
This investment will deliver a more efﬁcient 
operation in moving coal from the mine to 
disposal point and at the same time reduce 
the impact to the environment by removing  
54,500 lorry journeys and saving some 1.9m 
lorry miles per annum.
Laigh Glenmuir, which was granted planning 
permission in January 2006, entered production 
in the autumn and has been successfully 
established ahead of the winter. The Group 
expects that the site will operate for two and a 
half years with a yield of some 0.5m tonnes.
Overall the surface mines have performed 
well during the past twelve months assisted 
by the close monitoring of costs, including fuel 
which we successfully hedged, and investment 
in new plant to complement the existing ﬂeet.
The ATH Ogden regeneration business has 
been successfully integrated into the Group. 
The business has been performing ahead 
of expectations at the time of acquisition. 
Operational, technical and administrative 
beneﬁts have been realised including the 
improvement of recovery through the coal 
washing process at the surface mines. 
ATH Ogdens’ expertise in land regeneration 
will be applied to new projects over the next 
few years.
Development projects
As previously announced the Group increased 
the size of the Development team during the 
year. The team has been focused on pursuing 
a number of projects which are expected to 
increase Group reserves year on year. In addition 
an extensive exercise has been undertaken during 
the year to “desk top” review prospective sites 
and these are being incorporated into a ﬁve year 
development plan.
Sites for development by both the surface mining 
and ATH Ogden businesses are currently being 
evaluated and the Group expects to make two 
planning applications for new schemes in the 
next year.
Planning permission for Laigh Glenmuir and 
an extension at Grievehill were received during 
the year. However, it was regrettable that the 
planning application submitted for the Muir Dean 
site was turned down by Fife Council. The decision 
will be the subject of an appeal and the Group 
remains conﬁdent of a successful outcome 
given the recommendation from the Council 
ofﬁcers and the lack of substance in the 
Councillors’ objections.
  Robert Haskell
 Project Manager, Head Ofﬁce
 Robert has worked for the Company for over ﬁve years. His role  
 in the Development Department is to ﬁnd, evaluate and project  
 manage new sites through the planning process. 
“ It’s exciting to see an outline scheme for 
a site that I have identiﬁed to become an 
operating coal mine.”
05 06
_1_ATH_2006arf.indd   5 12/12/2006   11:55:28 ATH Resources plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2006 06
Chief executive’s statement continued
Development projects continued
Progress in developing the Group’s reserves 
in France has been slow. The Commentry 
Concession application is presently awaiting 
the Minister for Energy’s determination in Paris. 
However it is believed that all of the requirements 
of the application have been met. On the Bertholene 
Concession, drilling has been delayed by land 
access issues but it is believed that these will 
be overcome shortly.
Reserves of recoverable coal (proven and 
probable) were 7.9m tonnes as at 1 October 2006, 
as detailed in the adjacent table. After allowing 
for the extraction of 1.8m tonnes in the year 
and 0.5m tonnes which arose from the purchase 
of ATH Ogden, 1.1m tonnes was generated 
through the granting of planning permissions for 
extensions to existing sites and re-engineering 
sites to increase recoverable coal. The Group’s 
pipeline of projects is expected to see continuing 
replacement of reserves over the coming years. 
Market
The market for coal has remained buoyant 
during the last twelve months and shows no 
sign of falling due to high international prices. 
Although the recent weakening of the dollar 
has mitigated the high international prices, 
07 07
07.  Tyre management is closely controlled with predetermined tyre changes in order 
to optimise tyre life.
08.  Delivery of the ﬁrst of two Komatsu PC3000 excavators took place in August 2006 
and has been a welcome addition to the muck shifting operation proving to be 
a reliable and capable machine. 
09.  Each site is surveyed weekly to determine the progress made and to measure 
the efﬁciency of the coal recovery process.
Coal reserves
At 1 October 2006
    At 1 October 2006
    Proven  Probable  Total 
Site    Tonnes  Tonnes  Tonnes
Skares Road   710,000  —  710,000
Grievehill   750,000  — 750,000
Glenmuckloch   3,200,000  —  3,200,000
Laigh Glenmuir   500,000  —  500,000
Muir Dean   —  2,275,000  2,275,000
Total surface mining   5,160,000  2,275,000  7,435,000
ATH Ogden – Grimethorpe   490,000  —  490,000
Total   5,650,000  2,275,000  7,925,000
*  The information in this report relating to exploration results, mineral resources or mineral reserves is based 
on information compiled by Mr Peter Morgan a full time employee of the Company, who is a fellow of the 
Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining. Mr Morgan has sufﬁcient experience which is relevant to the style 
of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration. He has reviewed and consents to the inclusion in 
the report of the matters based on his information in the form and context in which it appears. A glossary of 
terms is available on our website – www.ath.co.uk.
08
_1_ATH_2006arf.indd   6 12/12/2006   11:56:03 07 ATH Resources plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2006
the long term trends would still indicate a period 
of relatively high prices with more than one third 
of the UK coal burn being supplied from Russia, 
which is at the top of the price curve.
Demand for coal in the UK for electricity 
generation has been growing steadily during 
the last ten years from 47m tonnes in 1997 to 
over 52m tonnes in 2005. This has been on the 
back of year on year increases in electricity 
generation, coupled with the rapid rise in oil and 
consequently gas prices, enabling coal ﬁred 
generation to earn a greater proportion of the 
electricity generation mix at 34% in 2005.
However, with the decline in deep mined coal 
production, over 68% of the UK’s requirements 
are now imported, whilst the balancing 32% 
was split roughly evenly between deep mined 
and opencast coal in 2005. Accordingly there 
is good scope for increasing the Group’s share 
of the market.
The Group has a portfolio of sales contracts 
with the Electricity Supply Industry (“ESI”) which 
are for different periods of time and at the year 
end had cover for 4.3m tonnes running out to 
March 2010.
The Group remains conﬁdent in the market for 
coal for the foreseeable future.
Staff
It was with much regret that Mike Tod 
tendered his resignation from the Board of 
ATH Resources plc due to ill health. Although 
he has made a good recovery Mike has decided 
to scale back his workload and will continue 
to be employed within the Group on a part 
time basis.
I would like to pay my personal thanks to Mike 
whose help and support was vital in launching 
ATH Resources in 1998 and making it the 
successful Company it is today.
Staff recruitment and training is vital to the 
success of any company but particularly so 
to one which operates in such a potentially 
dangerous industry. Over recent years the 
Group has invested heavily in staff development 
and we were granted training centre status 
by City and Guilds in May 2006 which allows 
the Group to train employees to Level 2 NVQ 
in plant operations. ATH is the only provider 
of accredited training speciﬁc to the surface 
mining industry.
A positive health and safety environment is a priority 
to the Group with all accidents being reported to 
the Board. The Group strives to be a leader in 
the sector and to this end has been working in 
conjunction with the Health & Safety Executive 
to measure health and safety performance. 
This year has been an extremely busy period for 
the Group, in which there has been a continued 
strong operational performance and additions to 
the reserve base. This has been complemented 
by the successful acquisition of ATH Ogden. I am 
very grateful to all of the staff who have helped 
achieve these goals and the Group looks forward 
to building on these successes in 2007.
Tom Allchurch
Chief Executive
 Derek McMurdo
 Site Engineer, Skares Road
  Derek’s role includes surveying the site to determine the 
amount of work performed each week as well as calculating 
coal recoveries. He is also involved in the site design process. 
“ All of us are encouraged to work 
as part of a team.” 
09
_1_ATH_2006arf.indd   7 12/12/2006   11:56:39
