 ATH Resources plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2006 02
Business progress
When ATH achieved its listing on AIM in 2004 
its stated objectives were to grow the business 
organically and by acquisition.
It is therefore pleasing to report that during the 
course of the year the Group moved ahead 
signiﬁcantly on both of these fronts.
In May 2006 the Group completed its ﬁrst major 
acquisition since achieving its listing on AIM 
with the purchase of A Ogden & Sons Limited. 
The business, now renamed ATH Ogden, 
consists of a coal recovery, land remediation 
and regeneration business. It is believed that 
ATH Ogden is the only company in the UK that 
can reduce the cost of regenerating former 
colliery sites by extracting coal from the old tips.
As such the acquisition complements the existing 
operations of the Group whist opening up the 
potential for future surface mining sites and 
reclamation projects in England where ATH Ogden 
has historically operated.
Secondly, the Group’s development team, 
which was strengthened during the year with 
the appointment of a new Development Director, 
has driven forwards with a number of planning 
applications. The Group’s reserves at the year end 
were 7.9m tonnes. 
“ Another year of progress in delivering 
sustained growth to our shareholders which 
is reﬂected in an increase in the full year  
dividend of 3%.”
01.  Plant maintenance is undertaken by both manufacturer supplied and in house 
ﬁtters within purpose built ﬁtting shops.
02.  Site restoration is undertaken throughout the site’s life and is returned to mixed 
grazing habitat and forestry when complete. 
03.  Coal is loaded onto trains by Caterpillar 966 loading shovels. A 1,400 tonne train 
consisting of 20 wagons is loaded in around 90 minutes.
Chairman’s statement
01
_1_ATH_2006arf.indd   2 12/12/2006   11:53:20 03 ATH Resources plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2006
Board of Directors
There have been a number of changes to 
the Board of Directors during the past year.
Firstly, Mike T od one of the three founding 
Directors stood down from the main Board due 
to ill health in June 2006. Mike was instrumental 
in establishing the original business in 1998 
and has been a driving force behind the 
development of the Group since then. He will 
continue in a part time role with the Group and 
the Board is grateful for his contribution over 
the last eight years.
As part of refocusing the Board the Group 
has recruited Steven Beaumont as Group Finance 
Director. Steven joins the Group from United Utilities 
where he was Commercial Director and will replace 
Richard Croston who will continue in his role as 
Finance Director of our trading subsidiaries and 
Group Company Secretary. Alistair Black has been 
promoted to Managing Director of the surface 
mining business.
Strategy
The Group will continue to develop organically 
and it is pleasing to note that our pipeline of internally 
developed projects is growing month on month. 
Other opportunities to increase market share will 
be exploited as they arise as the Group seeks 
to achieve a leading position in surface mining 
in the UK.
The Government’s report on the Energy Review: 
“The Energy Challenge”, published on 11 July 2006, 
did not produce any great surprises although it did, 
for the ﬁrst time, acknowledge the role of coal 
in the overall balance required for a sustainable 
energy policy. This was in the wake of last winter 
when coal ﬁred generation produced over 50% 
of the UK’s electricity. The review has also 
established a Coal Forum at which the difﬁculties 
of the planning system will be discussed.
The Group believes this is an important step forward 
in recognising the importance that UK produced 
coal has in providing essential energy supplies 
whilst assisting in managing the dependence 
on imported energy in ensuring that the UK 
has a secure supply of energy.
For the energy industry and in particular the coal 
sector the Group is actively lobbying for changes 
to the planning system so that an emphasis 
on security of supply has to be considered 
in the determination of planning applications. 
The Group is well set to deliver the results 
our shareholders expect from a mature industry 
and looks forward in 2007 to pursuing our target 
of further sustained growth.
David Port
Non-executive Chairman
 Derek Moir
 Site Manager, Skares Road
 Derek joined ATH Resources as a Site Engineer in 1998.  
 Since then he has been promoted ﬁrstly to Disposal Point  
  Manager, responsible for the quality control of the coal 
processing and coordinating dispatch of coal to customers,  
and more recently to Site Manager. Derek is responsible for  
the day to day running of the site. 
“ Being given the opportunity to develop 
alongside the growth in the Company 
has been very rewarding.”
02 03
_1_ATH_2006arf.indd   3 12/12/2006   11:54:08
