 page
02
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk
cHairman’s statement
delivering:
It is pleasing to report a year of record 
production resulting in the Group 
selling its ten millionth tonne of coal 
since commencing operations in 1998. 
Business progress
The Group continues to build on the strategy 
of growing the business organically and by 
acquisition. It is pleasing to report a year 
of record production resulting in the Group 
selling its ten millionth tonne of coal since 
commencing operations in 1998. The Surface 
Mining business opened two new mines in the 
year and commissioned the full length of its 
16km conveyor network linking the new mines 
to the railhead.
The land regeneration and coal tip washing 
business, re-branded as ATH Regeneration, 
is fully integrated within the Group and continues 
to perform ahead of expectations. A number 
of exciting new opportunities, to exploit the 
business’ intellectual property and market 
potential in both the UK and Australia, are 
being actively pursued. 
development
Following the year end, the Board was 
delighted to hear that the Group was 
successful in its appeal on the Muir Dean 
site in Fife. The planning process has been 
an extended one, given the appeal, and the 
Group is now looking forward to working 
with the local community in opening the 
site later in 2008. 
Turnover: £70.5 million 
(2006 restated: £54.1 million)
EBITDA: £25.1 million 
(2006: £19.2 million)
PBIT: £10.3 million 
(2006 restated: £8.1 million)
Total dividend: 11.6 pence 
(2006: 11.25 pence)
EPS: 13.08 pence 
(2006 restated: 11.77 pence) www.ath.co.uk
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
page
03
Planning consents for new reserves remain 
a key issue for the Group. The business is 
awaiting final approval for an extension to 
the Grievehill mine from the Scottish Executive 
Planning Department (“SEPD”). The Board is 
confident that confirmation of SEPD’s decision 
will be received within the necessary timeframe 
for the Group to meet its production plans in 
2007/08.
Board of directors
During the year, Steven Beaumont replaced 
Richard Croston as Group Finance Director. 
In addition, the Director nominated by The 
Alchemy Plan, Ivana Ridler, left Alchemy and 
became an Independent Non-executive Director. 
Following the year end, Group Marketing 
Director John Hodgson, one of the three 
founding Directors, retired from the Board. 
John will continue as a Director of the 
Surface Mining business. His commitment 
and dedication to the business has been 
fundamental to the success of ATH and 
the Board is grateful for his contribution 
over the last nine years.
strategy
There is a growing recognition of the value 
and importance of UK produced coal in creating 
a balanced and secure portfolio of energy supply 
within the UK. With this background the Group 
will continue to develop the business organically 
and through acquisition, exploiting new 
opportunities especially in the Regeneration 
business, to build on the reserve base.
david Port
Non-executive Chairman
Coal is loaded at the Group’s dedicated rail 
loading facility at Crowbandsgate in East Ayrshire 
for delivery to energy generating customers.
The Group celebrated selling its ten millionth 
tonne of coal by commissioning this unique 
piece of human artwork, involving children 
from three local East Ayrshire and Dumfries 
and Galloway schools.
t here is a growing recognition 
of the value and importance of 
uK produced coal in creating a 
balanced and secure portfolio 
of energy supply within the uK.
“ Header
page
04
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk
Strong, steady underlying 
organic growth coupled with 
targeted strategic acquisitions 
are key to the continuing 
success of the Group. Header
page
05
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk
ATH Resources plc
Strong, steady underlying organic growth coupled with targeted strategic acquisitions are 
key to the continuing success of the Group. With over £70 million invested in plant, land and 
the new ATH Regeneration business over the last three years, the Group is now well positioned 
to reap the benefits of strong international coal prices.
The Group’s solid operational base and development expertise enables it to deliver strong 
financial performance and an increasing reserves base.
