 page
06
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk
cHief executive’s statement
increasing:
The Group delivered a year of 
continued growth, reporting record 
sales up 30% to £70.5 million 
(2006 restated: £54.1 million). 
review of the period
The Group delivered a year of continued 
growth, reporting record sales up 30% to 
£70.5 million (2006 restated: £54.1 million), 
with profit before interest, tax, depreciation 
and goodwill amortisation growing by over 
30% to a record high of £25.1 million 
(2006 restated: £19.2 million). Operating 
cash flow of £23.6 million was generated to 
fund the continued expansion of the business.
operational review
Surface Mining
The Surface Mining business continues to 
grow steadily in line with the Group’s strategy. 
During the year, the Group brought two new 
mines at Glenmuckloch and Laigh Glenmuir 
into production and both mines operated 
ahead of expectations. In addition, 16km 
of overland conveyors linking the sites to the 
rail loading facility at Crowbandsgate were 
constructed with the assistance of a £2.2 million 
Freight Facilities Grant provided by the Scottish 
Executive. The conveyors, which can handle 
up to 500 tonnes of coal per hour, remove over 
50,000 lorry loads of coal from local roads and 
significantly reduce the environmental impact 
of these sites.
The Grievehill mine finished production 
on existing reserves in November 2007. 
An application for a further one million tonne 
extension was approved by the Local Planning 
Authority in November 2007 and ratification 
of this decision by the SEPD is awaited, 
with mining expected to re-commence 
in February 2008.  www.ath.co.uk
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
page
07
In addition to Grievehill, a Surface Mining 
planning application was submitted for Rigg 
in Dumfries and Galloway for 1.3 million tonnes 
and an extension of 0.7 million tonnes to the 
Glenmuckloch mine was identified. During 
2008, the Group expects to submit at least 
two further new planning applications for 
2.1 million tonnes of surface mine reserves. 
The Surface Mining business has an 
estimated 7.9 million tonnes of proven 
and probable reserves. Subject to the 
approval of the Grievehill extension these 
are sufficient to satisfy production at current 
capacity levels for over three and a half years. 
This is approximately double the reserve life 
that the Company had when it came to 
the Stock Market.
Regeneration
ATH Regeneration continues to operate 
ahead of expectations at its coal washing 
plant at Grimethorpe utilising its unique 
natural medium coal recovery techniques. 
Coal is being extracted from the coal tip at 
rates and qualities higher than anticipated at 
the time of acquisition in 2006. Coal recovery 
at Grimethorpe is expected to cease during 
2008 with the site entering a period of restoration.
In March 2007, the Group acquired 12.3 acres 
of development land at Pinxton in Derbyshire 
to facilitate the access and washing of the 
Langton coal tip which was part of the 2006 
acquisition. A planning application has been 
submitted and the operations are expected 
to commence in 2008.
Several new tip washing opportunities 
have been identified and negotiations with 
prospective partners where the necessary 
planning permission is in place are ongoing 
on two further projects. On agreement of terms 
with these partners, 1.3 million tonnes would 
be added to either the reported proven 
reserves or future order book. Progress is 
also being made on two further tip washing 
operations expected to commence in the UK 
in the next two years. 
In addition, a number of projects are being 
actively pursued in Australia. The Directors 
have identified a clear opportunity to build a 
presence in this much larger coal production 
market, where the Group’s successful coal 
recovery techniques are not presently employed.
France
The Group continues to pursue its 
development opportunities in France. 
The Administrative Court in Toulouse has 
found in the Group’s favour on litigation 
brought against the French State after their 
refusal of applications to transfer concessions 
at Bertholene in 1997. The Directors hope that 
this ruling will have significance in progressing 
the French State’s determination of the Group’s 
long outstanding application for a concession 
at Commentry.
Site preparation for a new coal processing plant 
installed at Garleffan. All coal produced is cleaned 
and sorted into different grades prior to despatch 
to customers.
The construction of the conveyor was carefully 
planned to preserve the local environment and 
historic sites. The conveyor was placed on a 
specially made bridge to ensure there was no 
damage to historic lime kilns.
the group has a dual 
strategy of growing coal 
reserves organically...whilst 
continuing to identify suitable 
complementary acquisitions.
“ ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
page
08 www.ath.co.uk
The Surface Mining business 
proudly commissioned its 
overland conveyor this year. 
Surface Mining
The Surface Mining business proudly commissioned its overland conveyor this year. The 16km 
conveyor system quietly and efficiently transports coal from the mines to the Company’s rail 
loading facility in East Ayrshire. Through this innovation the majority of the Company’s coal 
can reach its power station customers without using the road system – a saving of hundreds 
of thousands of lorry journeys over the next few years – providing a beneficial community and 
environmental solution.
With imports of coal at record levels, the Company plays an important role in producing local 
coal to the high environmental standards necessary in our modern and sophisticated economy.
The business plays an active part in the local communities in which it operates and has donated 
over £2 million to local community schemes over the last ten years. page
09
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk page
10
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk
Surface Mining business
cHief executive’s statement
operational review continued
Reserves 
The Group has a dual strategy of growing 
coal reserves organically from its existing 
portfolio whilst continuing to identify suitable 
complimentary acquisitions. Estimated 
reserves of recoverable coal (proven and 
probable) grew by 9% during the year to 
8.6 million tonnes (2006: 7.9 million tonnes) 
despite a year of record production. Current 
planning activity levels will continue to replace 
mined coal with new reserves, securing 
production for the foreseeable future.
Market
Demand for coal in the UK was exceptional 
during 2006 and, as expected returned to 
near previous normal levels in 2007. UK coal 
production meets approximately one third of 
demand, with the balance being imported 
predominantly from Russia, South Africa 
and Colombia. 
International coal prices are at an all time high, 
largely due to soaring demand from China, 
India and smaller developing countries in the 
Far East, leading to severe logistical difficulties, 
particularly at Australian ports that are struggling 
to cope with the required throughputs. 
The conveyor’s modular design ensures 
the system operates quietly and efficiently, 
minimising the environmental impact.
The Skares Road site, having been mined since 
1998, has some fully restored sections which 
include a designated wetland area inhabited by 
aquatic birds and animals.
t he group brought two new 
mines at glenmuckloch 
and laigh glenmuir 
into production.
“
coal reserves at 30 september 2007
  Proven Probable Total 
  Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 
site  000 000 000
Skares Road  340 — 340
Laigh Glenmuir  360 — 360
Grievehill  60 1,060 1,120
Glenmuckloch  2,510 700 3,210
Muir Dean  — 2,275 2,275
Rigg  — 600 600
t otal surface mining  3,270 4,635 7,905
Grimethorpe  220 — 220
Langton  — 475 475
t otal regeneration  220 475 695
group reserves  3,490 5,110 8,600
The information in this report relating to exploration results, mineral resources 
or mineral reserves is based on information compiled by Mr Peter Morgan, a full 
time employee of the Group, who is a fellow of the Institute of Materials, Minerals 
and Mining. Mr Morgan has sufficient experience which is relevant to the style 
of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration. He has reviewed and 
consents to the inclusion in the report of the matters based on his information 
in the form and context in which it appears. A glossary of terms is available on 
our website – www.ath.co.uk. www.ath.co.uk
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
page
11
Although there is currently resistance among 
UK electricity generators to pay these higher 
international coal prices to indigenous producers, 
the Directors expect an outcome that will 
satisfy both producer and generator. 
Consequently, the Directors anticipate a 
prolonged period of higher UK coal prices 
in the medium term. These higher prices for 
coal are already starting to benefit the Group 
as long term supply contracts are renewed. 
The Group holds supply agreements with 
a number of major UK electricity generators. 
These cover the supply of 3.1 million tonnes 
of coal up to 2011. New contract agreements 
have recently been secured for a further 
1.3 million tonnes at a price in 2009/10 
15% above the legacy contract. 
Health and safety
The Board understands the potentially hazardous 
nature of the work undertaken in the Group’s 
operations and takes very seriously its 
responsibilities for health and safety.
Each operational site has a nominated 
and qualified Health and Safety Manager 
and employees are regularly trained in the 
Group’s processes which aim to exceed 
HSE best practice. 
staff
The Board recognises the critical importance 
of its employees in the Group’s continued 
growth and success. The business has a 
skilled, innovative and highly motivated 
workforce approaching a total of 400 and 
the Group continues to deliver structured 
and targeted training programmes to ensure 
staff are competent to carry out their duties.
The Board joins me in thanking all of our 
employees for the efforts they have made 
during the past year of trading.
summary
These strong results reflect a busy period 
for the Group in growing the reserve base 
and identifying important future opportunities, 
particularly for ATH Regeneration in the UK 
and Australia. The Board looks forward to 
delivering value from these opportunities and 
further strengthening the Group’s market position.
t om allchurch
Chief Executive
Regeneration business
The former coal tip at Barnburgh has been 
restored to a mixed wildlife landscape and has 
the Transpennine Way running through the site.
Previously derelict coal tips are restored to various 
uses, including the regeneration of land for use in 
commercial developments. 
atH regeneration 
continues to operate 
ahead of expectations.
“ page
12
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk
ATH Regeneration is pre-eminent 
in the field of colliery tip reclamation, 
restoration and regeneration.  page
13
ATH Resources plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.ath.co.uk
ATH Regeneration
Utilising its unique and innovative technology ATH Regeneration is pre-eminent in the field 
of colliery tip reclamation, restoration and regeneration. With end uses such as commercial 
development, infrastructure projects and nature conservation, the Company provides the 
most sustainable as well as the most efficient long term reclamation solutions.
The Company continues to play a vital role in meeting the challenge of regenerating the 
derelict coalfields landscape from the nation’s industrial past to a rejuvenated environment 
with an emphasis on biodiversity and nature conservation in amongst employment and residential 
uses. Whilst remaining at the forefront of UK coalfield regeneration, the Company is now 
seeking to develop opportunities to apply its technology and expertise further afield.
