 02
ATH Resources plc
annual report and accounts 2009
the market
b  The total market for coal 
in the UK is around 50 million 
tonnes per annum. Coal is a 
major energy source in the UK. 
b  Around 80% is used in the 
production of electricity and 
the remaining 20% is supplied 
to industrial and domestic users.
b  ATH supplies all three 
of these markets.
the business
b  developing  
The Group employs specialist staff to identify potential new surface mines and colliery 
spoil tips that contain sufficient reserves of high quality coal for economic extraction. 
Formal planning applications are submitted to replace current coal production with 
new reserves, securing the long term sustainability of the business. ATH Regeneration 
is continuing negotiations to deploy its unique tip washing technology in Australia.
b  producing  
The Group utilises modern plant and equipment to extract coal deposits from surface 
mines and recover coal from spoil tips. Whilst the majority of the coal is utilised in power 
generation, ATH produces significant tonnages for the premium domestic and industrial 
markets, making the Group one of the largest producers of household coal in the UK.
b  restoring  
The Group, working closely with third parties including Local Authorities and 
Environmental Agencies, utilises innovative techniques to minimise its impact on the 
environment. The patent pending ATH Regeneration tip washing technology provides 
an environmental clean up service restoring derelict land to a high specification. 
Surface mines undergo progressive restoration during coal extraction periods and, 
following the completion of mining activities, land is returned to an agreed condition 
and profile. 
ATH operations
Laigh Glenmuir
Garleffan
Grievehill
Glenmuckloch
Crowbandsgate
Skares Road
Cumnock
New Cumnock
at a glance
ATH produces coal at three surface coal 
mines in Scotland: Skares Road in East Ayrshire; 
Glenmuckloch in Dumfries and Galloway; and 
Muir Dean in Fife.
ATH Regeneration received planning consent 
after the year end to construct and operate a tip 
washing plant at Langton in Nottinghamshire.
Muir Dean
Doncaster
Langton
_1_ATH_ar09_Front.indd   2 15/12/2009   12:16:17 03
ATH Resources plc
annual report and accounts 2009
Surface Mining
The Surface Mining business uses modern hydraulic 
excavating equipment to remove the overlying material and 
coal. The majority of the coal is utilised in power generation 
and is transported by rail through the Group railhead facility 
at Crowbandsgate. High quality household and industrial coals 
are produced to satisfy demand in these important markets. 
The mining methods employed ensure that operations are 
efficient and minimise the impact on the environment. 
Land Regeneration
The legacy of the UK deep coal mining industry is 
redundant land containing mining discard tips that 
represent a financial and environmental liability. 
Landowners, including Local Authorities and Regional 
Development Agencies, want to develop this land for 
a number of uses. ATH Regeneration has over 25 years’ 
experience of dealing with brownfield sites existing as 
a result of coal mining activity. The unique technology 
utilised by the Group provides an efficient and effective 
solution by extracting the coal to leave an environment 
suitable for a number of uses.
Doncaster
Langton
_1_ATH_ar09_Front.indd   3 15/12/2009   12:16:25
