 06 In brief 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
innovation,
expansion
and control  07
Why are you placing high emphasis on the importance of innovation? 
Innovation is the life-blood of our business and is critical to driving organic sales growth. It is
important that we understand what our consumers want through in-depth research; by combining the
expertise of our own innovation teams and working in partnership with third parties such as academic
institutions, we believe we are strengthening our new product pipeline across all our brands.
The Durex brand has continued to perform well over the past few years. How can you
continue this expansion?
The launch of the Durex Play range in 2003 has been a key factor in developing the brand as we
move its positioning from ‘safe sex’ to sexual wellbeing. This year we introduced the Durex Play T ouch
vibrator and Durex Play Ultra, a vibrating stimulation ring. W e are also introducing a range of massage
products, building on the success of Durex Play 2 in 1 Gel, with Durex Play 2 in 1 Massage Melts 
and Mousse and are launching Durex Play O, a clitoral stimulating gel to help women have more
satisfying orgasms.
What new products have you developed to drive the growth of Scholl footcare?
Scholl footcare has continued to perform well as a result of a steady flow of new, innovative
products which meet people’s needs, are efficacious and are well communicated to both the trade
and consumers. Our most recent successes include Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream — a clinically
proven solution for repairing dry, cracked skin on heels and, most recently, Perfect Nail T reatment 
(or Nail Brightening System as it is known in the UK) which treats brittle, discoloured toenails. Perfect
Nail has just been launched in a number of our markets and is supported by strong media and 
point-of-sale advertising campaigns.
With a growth rate of 10 per cent you appear to have turned around the Scholl footwear
business. How are you doing it?
The steps we have taken in defining our distribution-led strategy for Scholl footwear in Europe
have reaped rewards. This has given greater clarity and focus as we expand into new high street shoe
trade channels whilst maintaining our excellent market share position in the traditional pharmacy
sector. We have improved upon our existing foot-bed technology with Bioprint and ensured we have
clear range differentiation for each of our distribution channels.
What benefits do you expect from the manufacturing restructuring you have undertaken 
this year?
Closure of any operation is always a difficult decision. However, by closing the Durex condom
factory in Spain and transferring production to our other facilities in the Asia Pacific region we expect
to improve margins from 2008/09 onwards as the result of lower labour costs. By consolidating
Chief 
Executive’s
review
Sales
07/08
06/07
05/06
At constant exchange rates and including 100% of the China 
business in all three years
£533.9m
£499.3m
£461.6m
Operating profit
07/08
06/07
05/06
At constant exchange rates , including 100% of the China business 
in all three years and before one-off restructuring charges
£68. 1m
£61. 1m
£52.3m 08 In brief 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
pharmaceutical manufacture into a single in-house supply point we can eliminate duplicated
activities and reduce transport costs.
Since you acquired the remaining share of the business in China last year you appear 
to be investing further . How does this support your growth plans?
As we all know, the expanding economy in China represents a huge opportunity, particularly as
consumers in the major towns and cities become wealthier and desire premium global brands. We
already have a solid base for Durex in China and this year we have seen sales there grow by 35 per cent.
Establishing and widening our distribution platform to build upon our successes with Durex and
developing our Scholl business is key for growth. In addition, we are investing around £20 million in the
construction of a state-of-the-art condom facility which will be an important point of supply for 
the domestic and global markets.
Y ou have started your acquisition trail. What will this bring and what is next?
We now have the resources to make acquisitions to grow our business — a strong balance 
sheet and a talented management team who are well capable of integrating new businesses into 
our existing infrastructure. The key is to make acquisitions that complement our current distribution
channels and sales and marketing structure and also create a diversity to develop our business —
whether this is through new geographies or new products and technologies. In November 2007 
we acquired Orthaheel, a range of orthotic insoles which alter foot alignment to provide greater
cushioning and support for feet — a great fit with our existing Scholl footcare range and which brings
new technologies into our business. More recently we have made a small, but important investment 
in Eastern Europe and the CIS. In May we completed the acquisition of 15.5 per cent of a company
which owns and distributes the Contex condom brand and we have options to buy the remaining
shares over the next two years. Meanwhile, we continue to review other acquisition opportunities and
evaluate these against our stringent criteria to ensure we are making the right investment decisions.
How are you looking to provide development opportunities for your employees?
Without the enthusiasm, commitment and hard work of our employees across all our operations
we would not be seeing the success that we have achieved over the past few years. I would like to take
this opportunity to thank them for their contribution to delivering our business growth. It is important
that we invest in their continuing professional and personal development by offering a wide range of
training courses covering technical and lifestyle skills and enhancing business awareness. Also we seek
to provide new experiences such as through our partnership with Students Partnership Worldwide. 
“W e have the resources to make
acquisitions to grow our business 
— a strong balance sheet and a
talented management team”
Garry Watts
Chief Executive 
