 04 In brief 
• Annual Report and Accounts 2008
“We are growing sales, increasing
earnings and generating cash”
Gerald Corbett
Chairman 05
It has been another year of steady progress and good results from SSL. W e have total clarity in what
we are trying to do and our executive team led by Chief Executive Garry W atts is successfully doing it.
This year has been strong as our global brands Durex and Scholl have benefited from innovative
new products and further investment. W e have made solid progress on our European supply chain
restructuring projects and our cash flow generation has been good. Since March 2007 we have made
two important acquisitions, firstly to further strengthen our Scholl brand with Orthaheel and secondly 
to expand our geographical footprint to Eastern Europe and the CIS.
Underlying sales grew 6.9 per cent, driven by growth in each of the three major categories, 
Durex, Scholl footcare and Scholl footwear. Durex growth was underpinned by an 8.4 per cent growth
in branded condom sales, while sales of the Durex Play range grew 15.4 per cent to £32.2 million. Scholl
footcare sales were up 10. 1 per cent to £113.6 million thanks in large part to strong performances 
from Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream and our Scholl pharmacy ranges in France and Germany. 
Scholl footwear sales increased by 10.0 per cent to £76. 1 million driven by excellent Autumn/Winter ’07
range sales and a solid sell-in of the Spring/Summer ’08 range.
Operating profit for the year, before one-off costs, was £68. 1 million, an underlying increase of
11.5 per cent, meeting the target of double-digit operating profit growth in the year. Our operating
profit margin has increased to 12.8 per cent (2007: 12.2 per cent). Earnings per share, before one-off
costs, increased by 20 per cent to 20.6 pence from 17 . 1 pence.
Dividends
The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of 5.3 pence, 13 per cent ahead of last
year. The total dividend for the year is 7 .6 pence. The final dividend will be paid on 4 September 2008
to shareholders on the register on 1 August 2008.
Board of Directors
Susan Murray, one of our Non-Executive Directors, will step down from our Board following the
Annual General Meeting in July this year. I would like to thank her for the contribution she has made
and wish her success with her future endeavours.
Outlook 
The new year has begun satisfactorily. By increasing our investment in innovation to drive new
product development, by expanding distribution into new and developing territories and with our focus
on cost control, we will continue to deliver strong sales and profit growth. W e remain confident of once
again achieving our double-digit operating profit growth target.
I would like to take this opportunity , on behalf of the Board, to thank our employees throughout all
our operations for their individual contributions in helping us achieve such success. 
Chairman’s 
statement
a clear 
focus on 
growth
