 04/05	 C hAi RMAn’ s	st At EMEnt
overview   Annu Al  r eport  A nd   Accounts   2010 INNOVA t ION LeD
ORGANIC GROWtH
AND We LL CHOSeN 
ACQUISIt IONS 
It	 is	 said	 that	 the	 true	 test	 of	 the	 quality	 of	a	 company	 and	 its	
management	 is	 how	 they	 cope	 with	a	 recession.	 To	 date,	 SSL	
has	 passed	 that	 test.	 Our	 geographic	 spread,	 the	 quality	 of	 our	
brands	 and	 their	 market	 position,	 the	 continued	 enhancement	
and	development	 of	 our	 products	 and	 the	remorseless		
focus	 on	 cost	 and	 efficiency	 have	 led	 to	a	 resilient	 financial	
performance	 through	 the	 worst	 worldwide	 recession	 since	
before	 the	 Second	 World	 War.	
	 The 	 last	 year	 has	 also	 been	 helped	 by	 the	 success		
of	 our	 strategy	 of	 expanding	 our	 geographic	 footprint.	 Our	
Russian	 and	 Ukraine	 acquisitions	 have	 to	 date	 exceeded	 all		
our	 expectations	 and	 it	 is	 also	 worth	 recording	 the	 excellent	
results	 which	 were	 achieved	 in	 China	 and	 Japan.	
	 The 	 results	 from	 the	 more	 established	 markets	 were	
more	 than	 satisfactory,	 but	 it	 is	 to	 the	 management	 team’s	
credit	 that	 it	 is	 some	 of	 our	 more	 recent	 investments	 which		
are	 driving	 the	 growth	 of	 the	 Company.
	 Total 	 sales	 in	 the	 year	 rose	 24.9	per	 cent	 to		
£802.5	 million.	 Underlying	 sales	 growth	 for	 our	 branded	
consumer	 products	 (excluding	 the	 effect	 of	 acquisitions)		
was	 4.1	per	 cent	 to	 £632.3	 million	 with	 growth	 in	 each	 of	 our	
major	 categories,	 Durex,	 Scholl	 Footcare	 and	 Scholl	 Footwear.	
Underlying	 operating	 profit	 increased	 by	 5.6	per	 cent	 to		
£96.7	 million.	 Total	 operating	 profit,	 including	 acquisitions,	
grew	 40.8	per	 cent	 to	 £126	 million.	 Profit	 before	 tax	 grew		
50.7	per	 cent	 to	 £115.3	 million,	 and	 Earnings	 Per	 Share	 grew		
by	 20.0	per	 cent	 to	 33.6	 pence.
dividends   The	 Directors	 recommend	 an	 increased	 final	 dividend,	 up		
25	 per	 cent,	 of	 8.0	 pence	 per	 ordinary	 share	 (2009:	 6.4	 pence),	
which,	 subject	 to	 shareholder	approval	 at	 the	 Annual	 General	
Meeting	 (‘AGM’)	 on	 22	 July	 2010,	 will	 be	 paid	 on	2	September	
2010	 to	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 on	6	 August	 2010.	 This		
will	 make	a	 total	 dividend	 of	 11.1	 pence	per	 ordinary	 share	
(2009:	 9.0	 pence).	
o utloo K
The	 new	 financial	 year	 has	 started	 as	 we	 expected.	 The	 global	
economy	 seems	 to	 be	 improving	 although	 in	 certain	 territories	
recovery	 will	 be	 slow.	 This	 is	 in	 line	 with	 our	 predictions	 and		
we	 continue	 to	 expect	 to	 perform	 strongly.	 The	 twin	drivers		
of	 innovation	 led	 organic	 growth	 in	 Durex	 and	 Scholl	 and	
well-chosen	 acquisitions	 support	 both	 our	 earnings	 target,		
of	 increasing	 EPS	 by	 50	per	 cent	 in	 the	 three	 years	 to	 March	
2012,	 and	 our	 continuing	longer-term	 growth	 ambitions.	 We	
have	 the	 brands,	 the	 market	 positions	 and	 the	 geographic	
footprint	 combined	 with	 the	 continued	 product	development	
and	 innovation	 to	 be	confident	 of	 continuing	 to	 perform	
strongly.
	 Once 	 again	 this	 year,	 our	employees	 around	 the	 world	
have	 shown	 real	 commitment	 and	 passion	 to	 achieve	 these	
strong	 results.	 On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board,	I	 offer	 sincere	 thanks		
for	 their	 contribution.	 ●
