 growing sales,
increasing earnings,   
generating cash
“
Our strategy of investing in our core brands of Durex 
and Scholl and expanding internationally, whilst tightly
controlling costs, continues to move the Company
forwards. This has been another year of outperformance
against our stated targets, despite the challenging
consumer environment. We see further opportunities 
for growth, both organically, through Durex and Scholl and
from our acquisitions, particularly in Russia and the CIS.
We have benefited from the weakness of Sterling
which has enhanced our foreign earnings, but have still
achieved good organic growth. Underlying sales growth was
6.4 per cent (2008: 6.9 per cent) with growth in each of the
three major categories, Durex, Scholl Footcare and Scholl
Footwear. Operating profit growth again beat our double
digit growth target, increasing by 31.4 per cent before one-
off charges in the prior year (2008: 25.4 per cent). Earnings
per share grew by 35.9 per cent to 28.0 pence.
Dividends
The Directors recommend an increase in the final 
dividend of  20.8 per cent to 6.4 pence per ordinary 
share, which, subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) on 23 July 2009, will 
be paid on 3 September 2009 to shareholders on the 
//
Chairman’s statement
”
register on 7 August 2009. This will make a total dividend 
of 9.0 pence per ordinary share (2008: 7 .6 pence), 
an increase of 18.4 per cent. This dividend is covered 
three times by earnings and is underpinned by another
good year of cash flow. 
Board of Directors
Peter Johnson joined the Board as a Non-Executive
Director on 1 October 2008. He has huge experience of
running international businesses and has immediately
made a positive contribution to the Board’s deliberations.
Anna Catalano stepped down as a Non-Executive Director 
on 11 November 2008. I would like to thank Anna for her 
efforts and contribution during her time on the Board.
Outlook 
Whilst the outlook remains challenging, the new financial
year has begun in line with our expectations. By growing
sales of our brands through innovation, exploiting the
opportunities created by our acquisitions and continuing
to control our costs, we are aiming at a target of growing
earnings per share by at least 50% over the next three 
years–to March 2012. We have a strong balance sheet and
an experienced management team to take advantage of
opportunities around the world.
The achievements of the last year have been
possible only through the continuing considerable hard
work and commitment of our employees. On behalf of 
the Board, I would like to thank them. 
// 06 / 07 //////////  Overview / Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Strong sales growth across 
Durex and Scholl, improvements 
to manufacturing facilities and the
supply chain, and key acquisitions
designed to strengthen our business
– this year has again seen SSL build
on its past performance despite
difficult trading conditions, as Chief
Executive Garry W atts explains.
//
Chief Executive’s review
GARRY WA TTS
“
”
people are 
always going 
to have sex and walk
