 06/07	 C hi Ef	 Ex ECutiv E’s	 REvi EW
overview   Annu Al  r eport  A nd   Accounts   2010
ssl ’s   diverse   geogr Aphic   footprint   And   world-cl Ass  B rA nds hA ve  A gA in   supported   ro Bust   growth   in   the   Business.  while   integr Ation   of   the   r ussi An  B usiness   continues,   it   is   Alre Ady  hA ving  A  signific Ant,   positive   iMpAct   on   the  B otto M  line.  c hief   executive  gA rry  wA tts   loo Ks  BA c K  on   A  strong   ye Ar  for  ssl i ntern Ation Al…
it’s  B een  A nother  yeAr  of   growth   for    ssl , A re   you   on   tr Ac K  to  A chieve   your   tA rget  eA rly?
As	a	 business	 we	 have	 set	 increasingly	 challenging	 targets,	 and	
we	 continue	 to	 remain	 on	 track	 to	 achieve	 50	per	 cent	 growth	
in	 EPS	 over	 three	 years.	 We	 expect	 to	 make	 further	 significant	
progress	 in	 the	 current	 year	 and	 to	 achieve	 the	 target	 next		
year	 once	 we	 have	 the	 full	 benefit	 of	 our	 Russian	 acquisition.	
	 Of 	 course,	 whilst	 we	 are	 very	 pleased	 to	 be	 hitting	
profit	 targets,	 we	 are	 equally	 pleased	 that	 our	 cash	 flow	 is	
strong,	 which	 allows	us	 both	 to	 invest	 in	 the	 business	 and		
to	 increase	 returns	 to	 our	 shareholders.
hA s  the   glo BAl  econo Mic  downturn   iMpActed  ssl ?
Yes,	 we	 have	 seen	 some	 impact	 from	 decreased	 consumer	
spending,	 particularly	 in	 some	 of	 our	 larger	 markets	 including	
the	 UK	 and	 Italy.	 We	 have	 also	 seen	 customer	 inventory	
reductions	 in	 some	 of	 our	 markets.	 We	 are	 fortunate,	 however,	
that	 our	 categories	 are	 more	 resilient	 than	 many	 other	
consumer	 products.	 We	 have	 also	 been	 working	 closely	 with	
our	customers	 to	deliver	 outstanding	 in-store	 execution,	
education	 and	 promotions.	 Our	 distribution	 channels	 have	
been	 enhanced	 with	 the	 expansion	 of	 our	 consumer	websites	
in	 many	 markets.
whAt  do   you   consider  ssl ’s   greA test   Achieve Ment   in   this  pA st  yeA r?
There	 have	 been	numerous	 examples	 of	 outstanding	
successes	 this	 year	 from	 all	corners	 of	 our	 business.	 Russia	
has	 grabbed	 the	 headlines,	 but	 in	 many	 ways	 our	 strong	
organic	 growth,	 driven	 by	 solid	 product	 innovations,	 has	 been	
the	 most	 pleasing	 thing	 for	 SSL.	
h ow  hAs  the  r ussi An  A cquisition   progressed?
We	 continue	 to	 be	 very	 pleased	 with	 this	 acquisition	 which		
is	 progressing	 well.	 It	 is	a	 complex	 business,	 employing	 more	
than	 3,000	 people,	 and	 we	 are	 building	 strong	 relationships	
throughout	 the	 organisation.	 The	 Russian	 business	 has	 already	
had	a	 significant	 impact	 on	 our	 bottom	 line	 and	 we	 expect	 this	
to	 continue	 as	 we	 join	 the	 two	businesses	together	 to	provide		
a	 platform	 for	 growth	 in	 the	 future.
hAve   the   first  M onths   since   the   opening   of   your  c hinese  fA ctory   in  q ingd Ao  M et   your   expect Ations?
Yes.	 Whenever	 we	 open	a	 new	 facility,	 let	 alone	 one	 the	 size		
of	 Qingdao,	 we	 expect	 three	 years	 before	 we	 achieve	 full	
production	 and	 high	 yields.	 Qingdao	 is	 ahead	 of	 this	 timetable,	
with	 global	 shipments	 starting	 as	 anticipated,	 and	 further	
capacity	 increases	 planned	 for	 next	 year.	 The	development	 of	
our	 Chinese	 factory	adds	 to	 our	 robust	 supply	 chain	 platform	
(with	 key	 operations	 also	 in	 India,	 the	 UK	 and	 Thailand)	 which		
is	 strengthened	 by	 sharing	processes	 and	 talent	 across	 sites,	
and	 by	 close	 relationships	 with	 commercial	 offices	 around		
the	 world. e f m ING 
He f U 
ex eCt tI NS 08/09	 C hi Ef	 Ex ECutiv E’s	 REvi EW	 CONTINUED
overview   Annu Al  r eport  A nd   Accounts   2010
does   the  B usiness   see   ongoing   success   through  A cquisitions   or   org Anic  growth?
We	 firmly	 believe	 that	 continuing	 organic	 growth	 is	 an	essential	
part	 of	 our	development.	 That	 said,	 our	 balance	 sheet	 is	 strong	
and	 we	 have	a	 proven	 management	 team	 which	 gives	us		
the	 freedom	 to	consider	 opportunities	 for	 well-chosen	
acquisitions	 to	 increase	 our	 global	 geographic	presence		
and	 distribution	 capacity.	
t here  hA ve  B een   so Me  ch Anges   to   your   intern Al structure,  wh At  do   you   hope   to  A chieve   with   these?
SSL	 is	a	 fast-evolving	 business,	 with	 sales	 that	 have	 all	 but	
doubled	 in	 the	 past	 five	 years	 and	a	broad	 and	 growing	
geographic	 footprint.	 It	 is	essential	 that	 our	 management	
structures	 reflect	 the	 changing	 nature	 of	 the	 Group	 and	
provide	 foundations	 for	 further	 growth	 in	 future.	 For	 example,	
we	 have	 integrated	 those	 teams	 that	 bring	 new	 products	 to	
market	under	 the	 banner	 of	 ‘Product	 Delivery’.	 This	 combines	
functions	 including	 Regulatory	 and	 Innovation	 and	 has	
improved	 our	 ability	 to	deliver	 products	 that	 are	 based	 on	
consumer	 insight	 to	 the	 marketplace	 in	 an	 efficient	 and	
controlled	 manner.	
Op ERAting 	MAR gin 	 15.7 %
	
sAlE s	g ROWth
	 24.9%
	
+
1.
h ard s kin  range
Many	 consumers	 report	
hard	 skin	 and	 calluses.	
The	 Scholl	 Hard	 Skin	 range	
includes	a	 Softening	 Cream,	
Softening	 Pen	 and	 Instant	
Hard	 Skin	 Remover.
2.
f eeling  range
These	 new	 condoms	
provide	 the	 maximum	 in	
sensation	 while	 still	 offering	
the	 protection	 and	 security	
consumers	 rightfully		
expect	 from	 Durex. 2 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 whAt  do   you   see  A s  ssl ’s  B iggest   ch Allenges  for   the   co Ming  yeA r?
The	 economy	–	I	do	 not	 think	 we	 can	 take	 global	 recovery	 in		
all	 markets	 for	 granted.	 In	 many	 consumer	 markets	 we	 would	
expect	 consumer	 growth	 to	 be	 slower	 than	 historical	trends.	
This	 will	 continue	 to	 place	 pressure	 on	 our	 innovation	 pipeline	
to	 ensure	 we	 bring	 relevant	 and	 competitive	 products	 to	 meet	
consumer	 needs.	
	 The 	 integration	 of	 our	 Russian	 business	 is	 an	 ongoing	
challenge	 and	 we	 need	 to	 make	 sure	 we	 get	 the	 most	 from	 it,	
while	 smoothly	 integrating	 its	 business	 into	 SSL	 to	provide	a	
continuing	 platform	 for	 growth	 in	 the	 future.	
	 As 	 with	 any	 business,	 our	 success	 is	 ultimately	 entirely	
dependent	 upon	 our	 people.	 Nurturing	 SSL’s	 unique	 culture		
is	 vital	 to	 our	 success	 and	 will	 continue	 to	 be	a	 focus	 for	 the	
management	 team.	 ●
2010	A nd 	bEYO nd
Our	 immediate	 priorities	 are	 continuing	
the	 successful	 integration	 of	 our	 Russian	
business,	 and	 ensuring	a	 strong	 pipeline		
of	 new	 products	 to	 support	 our	 organic	
growth.
	 Certainly, 	 the	 global	 financial	 outlook	
is	 more	 promising	 for	 the	 next	 12	 months,	
with	 our	 most	 established	 marketplaces,	
the	 UK	 and	 Italy,	 forecast	 to	 return	 to	
growth.	 We	 are	 well	 placed	 to	 capitalise	 on	
the	 resulting	 improvement	 in	 consumer	
confidence,	 with	 quality	 products	 that	
address	 everyday	 needs.
	 Our 	 recently	 established	 Product	
Delivery	 team	 is	 geared	 up	 as	a	 real	 engine	
room	 within	 the	 business.	 It	 is	 responsible	
for	 ensuring	 we	 have	a	 consistent	 flow	 of	
new	 and	 innovative	 products	 reaching	 the	
marketplace.	 We	 have	 invested	
significantly	 in	 recruiting	 key	 talent	 to	 this	
team	 and	I	 am	 enthusiastic	 about	 how	 they	
will	 ensure	 we	 remain	 at	 the	 forefront	 of	
innovation	 within	 our	 categories.	 Their	
focus	 is	 on	 the	 consumer,	 supported	 by	
extensive	 research	 and	 testing	 in	 each	
stage	 of	 the	process	 from	 conceptual	
innovation	 to	 regulation.	 The	 team	 has	
also	 forged	 strong	 relationships	 with	
partners	 from	 the	 scientific	 and	 academic	
worlds,	 using	 external	 knowledge	 and	
expertise	 to	 maximise	 our	 growth.	
	 Our 	 balance	 sheet	 is	 strong,	 and	 we	
will	 look	 for	appropriate	 acquisition	
opportunities	 that	 could	 exploit	 our	
business	 fundamentals.	
	 After 	 significant	 investment	 in	 our	
production	 facilities	 in	 the	 UK,	 Thailand	
and	 China	 in	 recent	 years,	 we	 will	 next	
focus	 on	 India.	 Our	 partnership	 with	 the	
TTK	 Group	 remains	 strong	 and	 we	 have	
plans	 for	 investing	 in	 and	 improving	 the	
production	 facilities	 at	 our	 sites	 in	
Southern	 India.
	 One 	 of	 our	 competitive	advantages		
is	 our	 employee	 culture,	 and	together		
with	 the	 Board	 and	 Executive	 Committee,	
I	 will	 be	 looking	 to	 further	 capitalise	 on	 the	
spirit	 of	entrepreneurship	 and	 passion		
felt	 among	 SSL	employees	 globally		
by	 relaunching	 our	 vision,	values	 and	
operating	 principles	 across	 our	 worldwide	
operations	 in	 the	 coming	 year.	 We	
continue	 to	 invest	 in	 developing	 our	
employees,	 in	 selecting	 the	 best	 new	
talent	 and	 in	 training	 and	 challenging	 the	
next	 generation	 of	leaders.	 ●
SALES
09/10
08/09
07/08
£802.5m
£675.3m
£635.4m
At constant exchange rate s
OPERATING PROFIT
09/10
08/09
07/08
£126.0m
£97.0m
£90.4m
At constant exchange rate s
