 Garry Watts
Chief Executive Officer
which will enhance people’s sex lives and contribute to 
their general wellbeing. The Durex range has been extended
considerably over recent years and now includes premium
condoms such as Performa and Pleasuremax, vibrators,
such as the Play Vibrations vibrating ring and a range of
personal lubricants.
Q How are you driving the growth of Scholl footcare?
GW The strong performance by Scholl footcare this year
comes from a combination of consumer-led innovation,
well-executed implementation and effective advertising.
Our new products are supported, where appropriate, by
strong clinical trial data, for example Freeze Verruca & Wart
Remover which has been proved to be as successful as 
the freezing treatment used by healthcare professionals.
Also, we took the decision this year to bring forward around 
£6 million of our advertising expenditure to the first half 
of the year to ensure we timed our advertising campaigns 
to get the most out of our investment.
Q Slower growth has been reported for Scholl footwear
than in your other global categories. Why is this?
GW As we have said before, our focus over the past two
years has been to develop our European footwear business
which represents the clear majority of the whole. We are
seeing pleasing results in this division as sales in Europe grew
by 5.7 per cent. However, we have seen a decline in Japan
and Thailand where there is a high level of competition and
low pricing.
Q Y ou have embarked on a programme to
implement a new IT system throughout Europe. 
Why has this been necessary?
GW The evolution of SSL has meant that IT systems 
across the Group, whilst robust on a stand-alone basis, 
are disparate, thus creating complexity and a lack of visibility 
of information on a Group-wide basis. Implementing SAP
Q Are you satisfied with the progress you have made
this year?
GW Absolutely. Last year we set a new financial target 
after virtually achieving our previous target a year early. Our
new target is to achieve double digit operating profit growth
in each of the three years to 2008/09 and in this, the first 
year, we achieved operating profit growth of 19 per cent. 
By continuing to invest in our brands and maintaining a tight
control of the cost base we fully expect that we will achieve 
our target in each of the next two financial years.
Q Durex continues to show very strong growth. 
What are the key drivers of this?
GW The Durex brand is evolving; it is becoming the number
one authority on sexual wellbeing. Through consumer
studies and surveys, such as the Sexual Wellbeing Global
Survey we have obtained in-depth insight which gives us a
unique dataset about consumers’ sexual needs. From this
base we can continue to innovate and launch new products
Sales
06/07
05/06
04/05
At constant exchange rates
£480.2m
£443. 1m
£423.7m
Operating profit
06/07
05/06
04/05
At constant exchange rates
£56. 1m
£47 .2m
£40.0m 06
—
07
Chief Executive’s review continued
Our strategy
“By continuing to invest in our
brands and maintaining a tight
control of the cost base we fully
expect that we will achieve our
target in each of the next two
financial years”
Q Y ou have continued to place investment in people 
as a priority for SSL. Why is this so important to you?
GW SSL’s people are its greatest strength. Attracting,
motivating and retaining them is key to our future  business
success. We have considerable breadth and depth of
management expertise in SSL and we continue to invest 
in training and development programmes to help all our
people maximise their potential and their contribution 
to the business.
creates a single stable IT platform giving greater efficiency,
increased responsiveness and more accurate information.
T o date, eight of our European markets have implemented
SAP with good results and we expect the roll-out across
Europe to be complete by 2009. 
Q Y ou have previously stated that you are keen to 
make acquisitions. How is this progressing?
GW In January this year we completed the acquisition 
of our joint venture in China for £19.2 million. This is an
important step to ensure that we realise the full potential 
of Durex and Scholl in the rapidly expanding Chinese
consumer market. So far, we have appointed distributors to
cover four major regions (which together have a population
of around 117 million), we have strengthened our local
management team, we have established a sales and
marketing office in Shanghai and have introduced Scholl
Party Feet to the market. We expect China to be a major
growth market for SSL over the next few years. In addition,
we continue to look for suitable acquisition opportunities 
in Europe and elsewhere in Asia Pacific.
Q What is your attitude to returns to shareholders?
GW Three years ago, having completed the disposal
programme, we took the deliberate step to rebase the
dividend. Since then we have seen strong growth in
profitability and we have been very pleased to increase
dividends payable to shareholders over that time. We are
proposing a final dividend for 2006/07 of 4.7 pence per
share, a 7 per cent increase over last year.  We believe we can achieve 
our targets through a
combination of:
—
consumer insight-led
innovation
—
cutting edge advertising
—
investing in efficient
business processes
—
the training and
development of our people
Our strategy
SSL ’s business strategy
We aim to exploit the economic potential of both our brand
portfolio and our global operating assets by focusing on 
—
consumer insight-led innovation
—
cutting edge advertising
—
efficient business processes
—
training and development of our people
SSL ’s culture
We are committed to our vision that SSL should become
and remain successful, socially responsible and lively
through the application of our operating principles
—
attitude
—
behaviour
—
culture
SSL brands
SSL’s brands are innovative, high quality and premium
products. They have been developed and adapted in
response to consumer needs and 21st century lifestyles. 
Our international portfolio successfully blends the very best
of old and new: building on the heritage and history of brands
like Durex and Scholl with state-of-the-art technology , intensive
consumer research and creative marketing support. 
For more information on our portfolio of brands and the
benefit they bring to our consumers please turn the page.
