 04
ATH ResouRces plc
annual report and accounts 2010
chairman’s statement
DAvID poRT 
ExEcuTivE cHAiRmAn
introDuction
The financial year ended 3 October 2010 has been 
one of the most challenging in the Group’s history. 
The winter of 2009/10 began with significant levels 
of rainfall which flooded parts of Cumbria and 
severely restricted production from the Ayrshire 
mines. This was followed by some of the heaviest 
snowfall and coldest winter temperatures of the 
past century which slowed production and halted 
the Group’s 12 kilometre conveyor, preventing the 
delivery of coal to customers. These factors combined 
to produce a first half loss which the Group did 
well to recover from during the summer months. 
Sales for the year as a whole at 1.79 million tonnes 
were close to expectations, however the costs 
associated with recovering the production lost in 
the first half of the year were higher than expected.
results summary
On sales of £78.3 million (2009: £77.5 million) 
operating profit of the continuing activities totalled 
£7.0 million (2009: restated £9.0 million) reflecting 
the difficult conditions outlined above. Following 
the publication of a draft IFRIC Interpretation 
‘’Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a 
Surface Mine”, the Board has reviewed its own 
accounting policies and has decided that it would 
be appropriate to change the way it accounts for 
work in progress, particularly when opening up a 
new mine. The adoption of the new policy has 
been dealt with as a prior year adjustment and 
resulted in a cumulative write-off of work in 
progress of £5.3 million. Operating profits have 
been reduced in 2009 by £2.0 million and increased 
in 2010 by £1.6 million. Further details of this 
change in accounting policy can be found in the 
Financial Review.
Profit before tax for the continuing operations for 
the year was £4.0 million (£2.4 million pre-change 
in accounting policy) compared with £6.1 million 
for the prior year (£8.1 million pre-change in 
accounting policy). After accounting for a loss on 
the disposal of the Group’s Regeneration business, 
the Group recorded a post tax loss for the year of 
£1.8 million, which compared with a profit of 
£2.6 million for the previous year.
Net borrowings fell by £4.9 million to £34.5 million.
DisPosal of atH regeneration
During the year, the Board reviewed the strategy 
of continuing to own and operate the Group’s 
Regeneration business. This business had not 
generated any income since the completion of its 
Grimethorpe contract in 2008 and although 
ATH Regeneration had recently been successful 
in securing planning for a new contract at Langton, 
there was no certainty that there would be any 
further contracts once this work had been completed. 
The Board decided that an offer 
from a European based private 
equity fund to acquire the assets 
of the Regeneration business 
would be in the best interests of 
the Group and its shareholders. 
As part of the Board changes 
following the sale of ATH 
Regeneration assets, I have taken 
on an Executive and Alistair Black 
has been promoted to the role of 
Chief Executive. In addition, on 
4 October 2010 Andrew 
Weatherstone was appointed as 
Group Finance Director.
The Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 2.0 pence per 
share (2009: 6.15 pence per share 
– this figure incorporated the 
deferred 2009 interim dividend).  05
ATH ResouRces plc
annual report and accounts 2010
The year Governance Accounts
Significant effort had also been made to secure 
business in Australia, Europe and North America 
and whilst encouraging signals had been made by 
prospective customers, no firm commitment or 
timetable had been forthcoming. It also became 
apparent that the significant capital commitment 
necessary to develop this business and the resultant 
cash flows would be unattractive to the Group and 
its shareholders with no prospect of being able to 
maintain any meaningful dividend policy during the 
development years. It was against this backdrop 
that the Board decided that an offer from a European 
based private equity fund fronted by Tom Allchurch, 
the Group’s then Chief Executive and Steven Beaumont, 
the Group’s then Finance Director, to acquire the 
assets of the Regeneration business would be in 
the best interests of the Group and 
its shareholders. 
Initial sale proceeds of some £6.5 million, together 
with an option to take a further £2 million in 
respect of royalty payments in January 2011, plus 
the prospect of realising £2.5 million from the 
disposal of land and buildings in 2014 and further 
royalties between 2014 and 2017 of a further 
maximum of £3 million made the greater certainty 
of this cash flow against the uncertainty of continued 
ownership attractive. The Board has subsequently 
decided to exercise this option.
DiviDenD
Two new sites at Netherton and Duncanziemere are 
scheduled to open in the current financial year in 
order to replace production at the Samsiston site, 
which ceased production in September 2010 and 
the Skares Road mine which is anticipated to end 
in spring 2011. The cost of opening up these 
mines is expected to be approximately £14 million 
and whilst the Group can manage this cash 
requirement within its existing facilities, it was felt 
necessary to maintain a margin of headroom to 
allow for any additional cash expenditure that 
might follow any unexpected delays to its planned 
production. In the current banking environment 
the Group felt it prudent to reduce the cash call 
from paying its normal level of dividend in order to 
give the Group the maximum amount of flexibility 
whilst these new mines are brought to full production.
The Board is therefore recommending a final dividend 
of 2.0 pence per share (2009: 6.15 pence per share 
– this figure incorporated the deferred 2009 interim 
dividend), payable on 28 January 2011, subject to 
approval by the members at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 18 January 2011, to members 
on the share register at 14 January 2011.
tHe BoarD
Following the sale of the Regeneration business, 
Tom Allchurch stepped down as Chief Executive of 
the Group but remains a Non-executive Director. 
After ensuring a smooth transition, Tom Allchurch 
will stand down as a Director at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting in January. Steven Beaumont 
left his role as Group Finance Director at the end 
of the financial year. The Board would like to thank 
them both for their considerable contribution to 
the development of the Group and wish them 
every success with RecyCoal Limited in the future.
As part of the Board changes following the 
sale of the Regeneration assets, I have taken 
on an Executive role for a transitional period and 
Alistair Black, previously Group Operations Director, 
and who has been with the Group since 1998, 
has been promoted to the role of Chief Executive. 
In addition, on 4 October 2010, Andrew Weatherstone 
was appointed as Group Finance Director. Andrew 
joins the Group from Chapelthorpe plc and brings 
with him a wealth of experience in strategic, 
operational and corporate finance projects which 
will be of great value to the Group going forward.
ongoing strategy The business is now well positioned to concentrate 
its energies on maintaining and developing its 
surface mining business as one of the leading 
producers of coal in the UK.
Ongoing strategy will focus on:
  the replacement of below market legacy 
contracts with new sales contracts at current 
market prices;
 increasing the Group’s Proved and Probable Reserves;
 debt reduction; and
 delivery of a progressive dividend policy.
By selling the Group’s Regeneration business, the 
Board has reduced the volatility of the Group’s 
earnings, removed the potential for a substantial 
cash call that would have been necessary had the 
business expanded overseas, and remains focused 
on ensuring it retains its position as one of the 
lowest cost coal producers in the UK.
The investment in new mines, and record levels of 
reserves, give the Group the ability to fulfil existing 
fixed price contracts in a controlled and effective 
manner. There is now a sound platform on which 
to build growth, increase margins and deliver 
shareholder value. 
DaviD Port 
executive cHairman
