 04
—
05
Chairman’s message
Chief Executive’s review
“The Board is recommending 
an increased final dividend 
of 4.7 pence”
Gerald Corbett
Chairman
full year growth of 1.8 per cent. This has been driven largely
by strong performance of our European business offset 
by weaker performance in Japan and Thailand where the
market is based on low prices and is subject to high levels 
of local competition. In Europe, we have shown that we can
provide well-designed, stylish shoes that take care of feet,
whilst also expanding distribution outside the traditional
pharmacy sector. Sales of our locally owned brands were
broadly the same as last year. Other sales grew by 4.9 per
cent on an underlying basis as a result of increased sales 
of unbranded condoms.  
Operating profit for the year was £56.1 million meeting the
target of double digit operating profit growth and as a result,
basic earnings per share increased by almost 34 per cent 
to 17 .1 pence.
Dividends
The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of
4.7 pence, 6.8 per cent ahead of last year. The total dividend
for the year of 6.8 pence is covered 2.5 times. The final
dividend will be paid on 6 September 2007 to shareholders
on the register on 10 August 2007 .
Outlook 
The new year has begun satisfactorily. Given our progress
over the last three years and the strength of our brands we
remain confident of meeting the financial target that the
Group set last year of delivering annual double digit growth in
operating profit in each of the financial years to March 2009.
We believe this can be achieved through a combination of
continued investment in our brands driving further sales
growth and tight control of overheads.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our SSL colleagues
throughout the world. Our success would not be possible
without their efforts.
It has been a very encouraging year . We again increased
the investment behind our brands, Durex and Scholl.
Our new product development programme kicked 
in successfully . W e saw strong earnings and revenue
growth and we successfully integrated our Chinese
acquisition. Our cashflow performance was also
particularly satisfying.
Underlying sales, excluding China, grew 7 .8 per cent and total
sales, including China’s last quarter sales of £2.5 million, grew
by 8.4 per cent. This was driven by Durex, through continued
expansion of the Play range and further excellent growth in
condom sales; and Scholl footcare, where the successful new
product introductions of Cracked Heel Repair Cream and
Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover produced a strong result.
Currency adjusted sales from Durex and Scholl footcare
grew by 17 .5 per cent and 6.2 per cent respectively.
As expected, sales of Scholl footwear have shown modest
