 3
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements
Chief Executive’ s statement
“ The Group delivered good profit 
growth with underlying operating 
profit up 20.8%. Our focus is on 
creating value for our shareholders 
by delivering the best possible offer 
for our clients and customers. ”
This year, we delivered a good set of financial results driven by the 
early implementation of our strategy. We made solid progress in 
all regions and are particularly encouraged by the strong growth 
in North America and Asia Pacific. 
The Group delivered good profit growth on all measures, with 
underlying operating profit increasing by 20.8% on a constant 
currency basis and by 12.3% to £88.5m at actual exchange rates. 
Our underlying operating margin increased by 0.5% to 4.8%, 
benefiting from higher gross margins and improved operational 
efficiency. This reflects the good early progress made in embedding 
stronger retail disciplines across the business and leveraging  
Group-wide best practice and international scale.
Revenue increased by 4.0% on a constant currency basis. At actual 
exchange rates, given the strengthening of Sterling during the year, 
total revenue was unchanged at £1,827.1m. Like-for-like sales grew 
by 3.3%, with strong performances in the UK, North America and 
Asia Pacific, albeit trading conditions were more challenging in 
France, Germany and Egypt. Net contract gains were 0.7%, driven 
by growth in North America from new contract wins.
We generated healthy cash flow, providing a platform for continued 
re-investment in the business as well as enabling a further reduction 
in leverage. Underlying operating cash flow increased by 24.3% to 
£83.3m, and we continued to invest across the Group, particularly 
in North America and the Rest of the World, with capital expenditure 
of £76.0m. We have significantly strengthened our balance sheet 
during the year, with year-end net debt down to £371.1m, reflecting 
both the proceeds received from the IPO and our strong operating 
cash flow.
During the year, we made good progress in terms of new business. 
We opened 48 net new units, including a substantial opening 
programme in North America. We have also renewed a number of 
key contracts in various locations across the globe. In addition, we 
have secured a number of significant new contracts including at 
Beijing, Dubai, Sacremento and Stansted airports. Some of these 
new units will be with new brands and new partners for SSP , as we 
continue to develop our portfolio of brands and concepts further.
Looking ahead, the long-term outlook for passenger growth in 
the travel sector remains healthy, and the Group’ s strong cash 
generation and balance sheet mean that it is well placed to deliver 
continued growth.
Kate Swann
Chief Executive Officer
26 November 2014
Kate Swann, Chief Executive Officer
