 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014
2
Strategic report
Chairman’ s statement
Vagn Sørensen, Chairman
I am pleased to be able to report a good performance across the 
Group during the last year. Furthermore, this performance has been 
delivered against the backdrop of achieving a successful listing on 
the London Stock Exchange in July, and managing the transition 
from being privately owned by EQT Partners to becoming a FTSE 
250 plc. 
The Group made progress in the implementation of its strategy, 
and we have continued to invest in the business around the world, 
supported by our strong cash flow and our balance sheet which was 
significantly strengthened during the year. We delivered good sales 
growth in all geographies with total sales up 4.0%, and achieved 
a strong profit performance with underlying operating profit up 
20.8% (on a constant currency basis). Full year operating profit was 
£40.0m, after exceptional costs which principally related to the IPO.
A dividend has not been proposed in respect of the 2014 financial 
year. As signalled at the time of the IPO, in the absence of 
unforeseen circumstances, the current intention of the Board is that 
the first dividend to be declared by the Company will be in respect 
of the six months ending 31 March 2015. If declared, this dividend 
would be paid during the second half of the 2015 financial year.
The principles of sustainability have been important to SSP for many 
years and I am pleased to report good progress in many areas of 
our programme, including the installation of new LED lighting to 
improve energy efficiency, and a further extension of our sustainable 
sourcing strategy which sees the majority of the coffee used in our 
“ This year has been one of change for 
SSP with the successful completion of 
our IPO. Our performance throughout 
the year has been encouraging and 
we continue to grow strongly. ”
European business now coming from Rainforest Alliance certified 
sources. I am also proud of the fact that 663 apprentices started 
their careers in the food and beverage industry with SSP this year, 
including young people from deprived backgrounds as part of our 
partnership with The Prince’ s Trust. 
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the 
year. Three new Independent Non-Executive Directors joined 
during the year: John Barton (as Senior Independent Director); 
Denis Hennequin; and Ian Dyson. They bring with them a wealth 
of experience in the food and beverage, retail, travel and leisure 
industries. My colleagues and I are very pleased to be working with 
them as we enter a new era for SSP as a listed company.
Finally my thanks go to all of our staff across the Group; without 
their commitment and hard work and the support and dedication of 
their management teams, we could not have achieved these results.
I believe that we can look forward with real confidence. The Group’ s 
strong profit performance and cash generation, combined with a 
strengthened balance sheet and a very clear strategy mean that 
it is well placed to benefit from the underlying positive trends in 
the marketplace.
Vagn Sørensen
Chairman
26 November 2014
