 4 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s Statement
This is the first statement since I took over the 
Chairmanship from Miles Emley who stood down 
at the end of April.
Miles Emley
Miles had been on the board of St Ives since 1992. For 
most of his 19 years on the board he was either Executive 
or Non-Executive Chairman. The board and the Company 
owe him an enormous debt of gratitude for his exemplary 
service and contribution to the Company.
Strategic Development and Performance
The last 12 months have seen important strides forward 
for St Ives. The board continues to re-affirm the strategy 
for the Company of strengthening our position in more 
attractive and higher growth marketing services activities 
where our strong customer relations can be reinforced by 
offering a focused portfolio of high added-value print and 
marketing services, and of moving away from commoditised 
print markets.
Our acquisition of Tactical Solutions in February and 
our divestment of the Magazine printing business in 
April were important milestones in changing the shape  
of the business. Since the financial year end two further 
acquisitions – Response One and Pragma – have further 
advanced the creation of a significant and differentiated 
marketing services offering. We anticipate further strong 
evidence of the implementation of the strategy over the 
next few years.
Investing in  
our business
“ Great efforts have been 
made to concentrate 
on those segments 
of the market where 
customers’ needs 
match our capabilities.”
Richard Stillwell
Chairman  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
 
The Executive team has made excellent progress in 
delivering important strategic changes whilst at the same 
time improving the performance of the Group’s remaining 
print activities, and this will remain their key area of focus 
in the foreseeable future.
The Board and Staff
Tony Stuart joined the board as a non-executive director 
in January. For many years Tony worked with Rothschild 
and for part of that time acted as advisor to St Ives.  
He has retired from Rothschild and is therefore an 
independent director. We welcome him to the board  
and look forward to his contribution. In April he was 
appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Mike Butterworth remains as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and Simon Marquis is Senior 
Independent Director.
During the year the board established a Nomination 
Committee, which I shall chair, and approved terms of 
reference for it. The board also re-affirmed the strong 
ethical standards expected throughout the Company 
in the context of a code for compliance with the recently 
enacted Bribery Act.
The board takes a particular interest in the health  
and safety of all the Group’s employees. There is an 
unequivocal message from the board that health and 
safety is the number one priority. The executive directors 
are constantly ensuring that this message is understood 
and acted upon throughout the organisation.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank all members 
of staff for their ongoing support and commitment.  
Periods of economic uncertainty and structural change 
bring particular challenges and the loyalty of the 
workforce is much valued.
Current Trading and Outlook
The UK economy remains in the doldrums. Print demand 
as a whole remains sluggish. However, as some of our 
customers take initiatives to generate demand there are 
some bright spots. Solutions provided by our newly 
acquired marketing services businesses are in demand. 
A new multi-million pound print and services contract  
with HSBC, won against strong competition, is coming on 
stream in the next few months. The Olympics are likely to 
provide a backdrop for significant marketing initiatives in 
a number of sectors which will lead to enhanced demand 
for products and services provided by St Ives.
Our intention is to use our strong balance sheet to 
continue to acquire and invest in quality businesses to 
reinforce our enhanced marketing services offering and  
to ensure robust and resilient performance in the long 
term. At the same time, management are continuing  
to focus on cost and manufacturing efficiencies in our 
print operations.
The board remains confident that the reshaping of the 
business around a differentiated marketing services 
business will generate stronger returns, with the drive 
for increased efficiencies in the retained print businesses 
further underpinning performance.
 
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
4 October 2011
