 6 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s Performance Review
Expanding  
our capabilities
“ The Group continues to 
restructure its activities  
and implement plans to 
reposition the business.”
Patrick Martell
Chief Executive
We are pleased to report further significant financial 
progress, the continued development of our marketing 
services capabilities and the ongoing success in 
repositioning the business away from commoditised  
print markets.
We have again taken action to reduce our costs and 
improve efficiencies in our print operations whilst  
investing for growth in our marketing services businesses. 
Further to the recent acquisition of Tactical Solutions  
we are delighted to have announced the acquisition 
of Response One and Pragma Consulting. As with our 
previous acquisitions they are strong businesses with 
excellent management teams, have potential to grow  
and are a great fit with our strategic reshaping.
We finished the year with a cash balance of £16.3 million 
despite the cash cost of the ongoing restructuring and  
the acquisition of Tactical Solutions. In addition, we are 
pleased to have once again further strengthened the 
balance sheet with net assets increasing by £6.7 million  
to £136.6 million.
The board recommends a final dividend of 3.50p making 
a full year dividend of 5.25p (3.50p in 2010). If approved, 
the final dividend will be paid on 23 December 2011 to 
shareholders on the register at 2 December 2011, with  
an ex-dividend date of 30 November 2011.  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7
 
Trading conditions during the year continued to be 
very tough as the economic climate remained subdued. 
Underlying Group revenue of £296.8 million was 1.8% 
higher compared to the previous year as our marketing 
services segment offset the decline in print revenues.  
We have made further significant progress in improving 
the underlying operating profits of the business to  
£21.3 million (2010 – £18.8 million) and we are pleased 
that progress has been made in both reporting segments 
due to the actions taken to reduce costs and improve 
manufacturing efficiencies in the print operations  
and the investment made to grow our marketing  
services segment. 
Print
Our Print operations represented 95.3% of Group  
external sales for the year. This comprises the Books; 
Exhibition and Events; Point of Sale and Direct Response 
and Commercial print businesses.
2011  
£’000
2010  
£’000
Print total revenue before  
non-underlying items 282,736 290,541 
Print operating profit before  
non-underlying items 20,870 18,966 
Books
The Group’s book business accounted for 27.3% of  
the Print segment revenues. Sales were down by  
3.3% compared to the previous year at £77.1 million  
(2010 – £79.7 million) but once again we benefited from  
increased market share and growth in our added value 
and distribution services. Actions taken to improve 
manufacturing efficiencies and reduce costs mitigated  
the impact of lower revenues and the business continues 
to perform very well. 
The investments into digital print and print-on-demand 
continue to be very successful and we are delighted to 
have made a further strategic and unique investment  
in digital production. Working with our technology 
partners, we have invested in an integrated digital  
system which significantly extends the run length  
at which digital production is a better solution than 
conventional manufacture. 
Our strategy is to provide services that enable our 
customers to profitably produce physical books in smaller 
quantities, ensure their availability, deliver them directly 
and in so doing minimise the risk associated with holding 
stock. We continue to assess the impact upon volumes 
from eBook sales which remain at levels lower than  
those reported in the US. We are very confident that our 
ongoing investment in this business will ensure we remain 
the market leader, are able to respond to the dynamic 
changes in this market place and continue to increase  
our market share. We have renewed a number of our 
contracts during the year including that with Hachette.
Being able to provide extensive conventional and digital 
production, an integrated warehouse facility and post 
production services from a single point enables us to 
provide a unique service whilst reducing the cost and 
time of fulfilment. As a result of our superior levels of 
service and reliability, we have again produced the 
majority of the bestselling books which included the 
following titles:
For Penguin ‘How hard can it be?’ by Jeremy Clarkson 
and ‘Life and Laughing’ by Michael Macintyre; for Hodder 
‘One Day’ by David Nicholls; for Headline ‘The Family’ by 
Martina Cole; for Little, Brown ‘Post Mortuary’ by Patricia 
Cornwell; for Transworld ‘Madeleine’ by Kate McCann; for 
HarperCollins ‘The Corrections’ by Jonathan Franzen; for 
Bloomsbury ‘The Finkler Question’ (Booker prize winner) 
by Howard Jacobson; for Random House ‘A journey’ by 
Tony Blair; and for Orion ‘The Tiger’s Wife’ (Orange prize 
winner) by Téa Obreht.
Exhibitions and Events
Sales for the exhibitions, events and outdoor media 
business represented 12.3% of Print segment sales.
Sales of £34.8 million (2010 – £31.3 million) were 11.4% 
ahead of last year but the margins were impacted by the 
short-term cost and disruption caused by the move of our 
principal site from Wandsworth to Chessington. The move 
has been completed successfully and the business is  
well placed to benefit from this new facility and ahead of 
the increased activity associated with the 2012 London 
Olympics. In addition to the new facility, we have invested 
in additional digital output and implemented a new IT 
system for the business.
