 4 St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Statement
The 12 months to July 2012 have seen St Ives continue the 
delivery of improved financial performance coupled with  
the strategic realignment of the business.
Print remains, and will continue to remain, an important 
component of the overall business. St Ives is a leader in its 
chosen print market sectors where it enjoys a strong reputation 
for quality and delivery and where it has long established and 
strong customer relationships.
Over the last two years, we have acquired a number of 
independent and complementary marketing services 
businesses. We are investing in those businesses and will 
continue to do so, and we shall look for further opportunities to 
acquire to broaden and deepen the range of services we offer. 
We also see scope to further strengthen the collaboration 
between all of our businesses and to increase cross-selling.
St Ives now has a portfolio of service activities ranging from 
data management to retail consultancy and from tactical retail 
and brand support to market research. All these businesses 
are being integrated into St Ives.
The organisation of St Ives is changing. The touchstone for the 
new organisation is customer focus. Different customers have 
different service and print needs. The Group is evolving and 
this will continue so that we can deliver to our customers the 
right combination of print and support services to meet their 
particular needs.
“  Great efforts have been  
made to concentrate  
on those segments  
of the market where 
customers’ needs  
match our capabilities.”
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
Investing in  
our business  St Ives plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
 
The board is changing as well and is dedicating more time to 
the strategic development of the business, whilst continuing  
to maintain high levels of corporate governance. Technology 
developments across a broad front mean that St Ives will have 
to analyse and understand the changing requirements of its 
customers and refresh its market offering as necessary.
The asset base in the print side of the business is now far more 
appropriate for the Group’s future needs. Here too technology 
is making a significant impact and the board will need to 
decide on future investment and sourcing options.
The Executive team under Patrick Martell’s leadership is now 
firmly established and working well. There is a recognition that 
the reshaping of the business has to be done in tandem with 
the delivery of improved financial performance.
The board recognises that further investment in new or existing 
businesses may be necessary for the long-term strength of  
the Group. If that has an impact on short or medium-term 
performance it will only be undertaken if the end result is  
value creation.
The membership of the board is evolving. Simon Marquis is 
standing down as a director at this year’s AGM having reached 
the nine year recommended maximum term of service. He has 
made an outstanding contribution to the board, particularly 
during this recent period of strategic realignment when his 
knowledge about the marketing services businesses has been 
invaluable. We shall miss his wisdom and wise counsel.
Earlier in the year the board was delighted to welcome Helen 
Stevenson as a non-executive director. She brings a wealth of 
experience in marketing related activities and we look forward 
to her contribution.
Change has characterised virtually every aspect of the 
Group’s business in the last year. That can often be disruptive 
and painful for individuals. The board recognises that and on 
their behalf I would like to thank all of St Ives’ employees for 
their support and understanding during the changes which 
have taken place. The Group is fitter and better prepared for 
the future as a result.
Our thanks also go to our customers and clients. Increasingly 
we are forming strategic partnerships with our customers 
which allow us to develop a package of products and services 
which reflect their strategic needs.
The Group is now well positioned to develop the business and 
create value for our shareholders through further investment 
and through the development of our existing portfolio.
 
Richard Stillwell
Chairman
2 October 2012
