 Stagecoach Group has made positive progress this year towards
achieving its key strategic objectives despite challenging issues
within the transport sector and a difficult economic environment.
Across the Group, we are seeing strong cash generation from
each of our four key operating divisions and all are trading
profitably. In the UK, our bus division has had a successful year
and is delivering increased operating margins with solid revenue
and passenger volume growth. We have agreed terms with the
Strategic Rail Authority (‘‘SRA’’) for a new three-year franchise
at South West Trains, which is one of the UK’s largest rail
franchises. We are awaiting final approval of this new franchise
agreement from the Government. Restructuring of our Coach
USA division is progressing well. Earlier this month, we
completed the disposal of our Citybus business in Hong Kong,
while our New Zealand bus business continues to deliver strong
growth.
The Group’s strong cash flow generation, coupled with the
favourable movement in exchange rates, has allowed us to
reduce debt for the long-term benefit of the business. Net debt
reduced by »214.6m in the year ended 30 April 2003, from
»774.6m to »560.0m. Subsequent to the year-end we have
announced disposals with a gross consideration of approximately
»300m. Of these proceeds, approximately »20m relates to
deferred consideration and the remainder will initially be used
to reduce Group debt.
Turnover for the year ended 30 April 2003 was »2,076.6m
(2002 ^ »2,111.4m). Total operating profit before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items was »146.4m
(2002 ^ »166.6m). Earnings per share on an equivalent basis
were up at 6.4 pence (2002 ^ 6.3 pence).
The Board of Directors is recommending that the total dividend
for the year is 2.6 pence per share (2002 ^ 2.6 pence). This
comprises the interim dividend of 0.8 pence (2002 ^ 1.3 pence)
and a proposed final dividend of 1.8 pence per share
(2002 ^ 1.3 pence). The Board has firm confidence in the future
prospects for the Group and, based on continued strong and
stable cash flows and profits within the business, we will look
to increase the dividend each year.
Our two key priorities in recent months have been the
restructuring of our Coach USA operations following a
comprehensive business review, and finalising the new South
West Trains franchise. Focused management action on both
of these issues will deliver greater stability and certainty.
At Coach USA we remain on course to deliver on our key
restructuring objectives within the 12 to 18 month timetable we
set out in December 2002 and this will produce a smaller but
nevertheless substantial and more robust business.
We believe the financial and commercial terms we have agreed
with the SRA for the new franchise at South West Trains will
deliver a good and predictable return for our shareholders.
Virgin Rail Group (in which we have a 49% interest) is
continuing to work with the SRA with a view to negotiating new
long-term commercial arrangements for both the West Coast
and CrossCountry franchises. Both franchises are presently
receiving SRA funding on the basis of a one year budget set by
the SRA for the period to February 2004. We remain confident
that new franchise terms can be agreed that will secure
shareholder value for Stagecoach.
Our UK Bus operations are producing revenue and passenger
volume growth, most notably where we work closely with
forward-looking local authorities. We have been particularly
successful in the London market. We are also pleased that the
Government has taken forward our ‘‘Kick Start’’ proposals for
targeted funding to support the introduction of new services
and help reinvigorate the UK Bus network.
In the Overseas Bus division, performance at our New Zealand
businesses, where we are seeing strong growth, continues to be
very satisfactory. Citybus, our Hong Kong bus operation, has
Chairman’s statement 2003
Stagecoach Group has made positive progress this year
towards achieving its key strategic objectives despite
challenging issues within the transport sector
and a difficult economic environment.
4 been an excellent investment for the Group since 1999. However,
the Board received an approach for the business and felt it was
appropriate to review the strategic options for Stagecoach Group
in the region. In view of the limited opportunities to develop
significantly elsewhere in other Pacific Rim countries and the
long-term prospects for the business in Hong Kong, we believe
the offer was a good one and that selling the business at this
time was in the best interests of shareholders.
We have a clear strategy for the Group and are on schedule with
our sales programme and restructuring at Coach USA. The sale of
Citybus has put the Group in a strong financial position, further
de-risking the Group’s portfolio, and will allow management to
focus on developing our UK bus and rail businesses, a smaller but
more robust North American business and our successful New
Zealand operations. The Group continues to be a leading
international transport company with a strong portfolio of cash
generative businesses.
Following the business review in North America, I was delighted
to announce six months ago that Brian Souter had taken up the
position of Chief Executive on a permanent basis. His energy and
entrepreneurial vision have been the driving force behind the
Group and the considerable work he has done in restructuring
our US operations is laying firm foundations for a stronger North
American business.
I was happy to accept the invitation, in December 2002, to
continue as Chairman of the Board. We have been working
closely to refocus the company and I am confident Stagecoach
Group has a dedicated senior management team and a
committed Board that will ensure the Group continues to thrive
and deliver shareholder value.
ROBERT SPEIRS
Chairman
25 June 2003
Robert Speirs
Chairman
5
