 	 02 	 Star	Energy	Group	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2005	 www.starenergy.co.uk 	 www.starenergy.co.uk	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2005	 Star	Energy	Group	plc
Job:	 6897_Star	Energy_AR_FRONT.indd	 Proof:	 04
Operator:	Amy	 Date:	 04/04/2006
Server:	 Studio	3	 Set-up:	 Dave
Chairman’s 
Statement
Star	Energy	is	in	an	excellent	position	to	provide	 substantial	extra	gas	storage.	We	have	accelerated	 our	engineering	and	development	programmes	 	 with	the	objective	of	adding	80-90	bcf	of	additional	 capacity	within	the	next	five	to	seven	years.
2005	 was	 a	 landmark	 year	 in	 the	 development	 of	 Star	 Energy’s	 business.	 In	 November	 our	 first	 gas	 storage	 facility	 at	 Humbly	 Grove	 began	 operations,	 while	 in	 August	 we	 completed	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Pentex	 Management	 Limited,	 further	 strengthening	 our	 onshore	 Exploration	 and	 Production	 portfolio,	 and	 adding	 additional	 sites	 with	 potential	 for	 gas	 storage	 development.
2005	 was	 also	 a	 year	 in	 which	 UK	 gas	 supplies	 were	 never	 far	 from	 the	 headlines.	 Concerns	 over	 possible	 winter	 supply	 shortages	 combined	 with	 substantial	 increases	 in	 prices	 have	 alarmed	 consumers	 and	 raised	 major	 issues	 for	 the	 Government	 to	 address	 in	 its	 current	 Energy	 Review.	 Amongst	 these	 issues	 is	 the	 increased	 awareness	 both	 of	 the	 important	 role	 played	 by	 gas	 storage	 in	 maintaining	 supply	 and	 curbing	 price	 increases,	 and	 the	 acute	 shortage	 of	 such	 storage	 capacity	 in	 the	 UK.
Star	 Energy	 is	 in	 an	 excellent	 position	 to	 provide	 substantial	 extra	 storage.	 We	 have	 accelerated	 our	 engineering	 and	 development	 programmes	 with	 the	 objective	 of	 adding	 80–90	 bcf	 of	 additional	 capacity	 within	 the	 next	 five	 to	 seven	 years.	 This	 objective	 will	 incur	 significant	 capital	 expenditure,	 which	 we	 will	 look	 to	 finance	 through	 both	 the	 debt	 and	 equity	 markets.	 We	 remain	 extremely	 concerned,	 however,	 that	 this	 development	 plan	 will	 be	 held	 back	 by	 the	 current	 UK	 planning	 and	 permitting	 regime,	 which	 fails	 to	 facilitate	 the	 timely	 development	 of	 key	 strategic	 infrastructure	 such	 as	 gas	 storage.	 Indeed,	 our	 application	 to	 Lincolnshire	 County	 Council	 to	 develop	 the	 Welton	 site	 was	 rejected	 despite	 a	 strong	 recommendation	 from	 the	 planning	 officers.	 We	 will	 be	 taking	 this	 application	 forward	 on	 appeal,	 and	 we	 are	 encouraged	 by	 the	 increasing	 level	 of	 support	 we	 are	 receiving	 from	 Central	 Government.	 The	 strong	 interest	 and	 support	 from	 investors	 in	 our	 business	 was	 very	 welcome	 during	 the	 year.	 Our	 raised	 profile	 as	 a	 significant	 player	 in	 the	 gas	 market,	 coupled	 with	 greater	 liquidity	 in	 our	 shares	 following	 the	 Pentex	 acquisition,	 underpinned	 good	 growth	 in	 our	 share	 price,	 positioning	 Star	 Energy	 as	 one	 of	 the	 30	 largest	 businesses	 by	 market	 value	 listed	 	 on	 AIM	 by	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year.
We	 report	 a	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 of	 £1.3	 million	 (2004:	 £2.9	 million	 loss)	 after	 one-off	 costs	 	 of	 £nil	 (2004:	 £2.2	 million).	 Shareholders’	 	 funds	 have	 increased	 from	 £56.8	 million	 as	 	 at	 31	 December	 2004	 to	 £91.0	 million	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2005	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 placing	 	 of	 19.1	 million	 shares	 to	 raise	 net	 proceeds	 	 of	 £31.9	 million	 for	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Pentex.
On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board,	 I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 all	 our	 stakeholders	 and	 our	 hard-working	 management	 and	 staff	 for	 their	 support	 in	 2005,	 and	 we	 look	 forward	 to	 further	 success	 in	 2006.	 Stephen Gutteridge
Chairman
Stephen Gutteridge
Chairman
