 03 Star Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s Review
2006 was in many ways a year of  
learning for Star Energy. 
Humbly Grove gas storage facility
A major milestone for the Company was 
passed on 1 February 2006 when the 
Humbly Grove gas store was handed 
over to the customer, Vitol SA, for full 
customer nominations. The gas store has 
performed broadly in line with expectations. 
The Humbly Grove gas store is the third 
largest in the UK and has made a material 
contribution to security of supply. The 
dispute with the EPC contractor, AMEC,  
was resolved commercially.
Gas storage planning activities
Despite fears of a gas supply shortage 
during February and March 2006 and 
a Parliamentary Statement of Need for 
additional gas infrastructure including gas 
storage, the difficulties in obtaining planning 
permissions for the Company’s new gas 
storage projects continued. In relation to the 
Welton gas storage project, the time from 
submission of the Company’s applications 
to final determination was 29 months. 
Planning permission was refused on final 
determination despite a highly detailed 
planning officers’ report recommending 
approval. The Company initiated an appeal 
against the refusal but decided to withdraw 
the appeal when it became clear that 
Lincolnshire County Council intended to raise 
procedural objections that could have been 
raised within the 29 month determination 
period. As a result of that experience, and 
following dialogue with the Company’s 
advisors and the DTI, the Company decided 
to adopt the Gas Act 1965 as the standard 
platform for all of its future gas storage 
planning applications. Although this 
legislation requires increased application 
detail and additional resources, the Company 
believes applications under the Gas Act 1965 
will provide enhanced certainty of planning 
application timelines.
Recognising the need to engage local 
stakeholders and provide increased 
transparency in the preparation of planning 
applications, the Company is committed 
to increasing local dialogue via liaison 
panels and adopting a flexible approach to 
development planning. T o achieve this, the 
Company is expanding its planning resources 
and adopting minimal impact developments 
including remote siting of plant and 
equipment and extended reach drilling. This 
was exemplified by the decision to drill an 
appraisal well from the Company’s existing 
well site at Albury in Surrey rather than create 
a new well site in an area of outstanding 
natural beauty. This will involve the drilling 
of an extended reach well (the true vertical 
depth of the well will be circa 4,000 feet but 
the total well path will be in excess of 14,000 
feet) in order to reach the required targets. 
Since this well path is beyond the capabilities 
of the Company’s previously contracted 
drilling rig, an agreement has been entered 
into for the lease of a new state of the art 
hydraulic rig from the Company’s Associate 
and nominated drilling contactor, Larchford 
Limited. This rig will not only be more 
powerful but will also be quieter than 
other commercially available rigs.
New opportunities
The Company has been actively seeking  
new gas storage development opportunities. 
This, together with an increase in awareness 
of the Company’s unique capabilities in 
operating oil and gas fields and developing 
and operating depleted reservoir gas storage 
facilities, has led to the Company being  
invited to collaborate on a number of new 
storage developments. 
One such project, relating to the North 
Sea Forbes field in Block 43/8, concerns the 
potential development of a new offshore gas 
storage facility. This project, a joint venture 
with Encore Oil for which Star Energy will 
provide the gas storage development lead, 
will augment the Company’s onshore gas 
storage projects. Initial modelling indicates 
Forbes could be converted into a gas store 
with a capacity of up to 50 bcf. The 
Company is scheduled to complete a 
feasibility study by the end of 2007. 
During 2006, the Company increased its 
continental European involvement with 
participation in an onshore Denmark 
exploration well. The well was a dry hole  
but data is being evaluated to ascertain 
whether there are gas storage possibilities. 
In addition, gas storage opportunities were 
evaluated in the Netherlands and Italy. This 
work is ongoing.
Other operating activities
The Company continued the successful 
integration of Pentex, the onshore UK  
oil and gas business acquired in August
2005, benefiting from both the addition  
of incremental oil and gas production and  
at least one new gas storage project, the  
6.5 bcf storage project at Gainsborough. 
A development well at the Stockbridge oilfield 
was brought into production in June 2006
at an initial rate of over 1,000 bopd. The 
Company was on track to achieve its  
oil production targets until a spate of 
well pump failures, exacerbated by the  
late delivery of a work over rig, caused 
production to fall in the fourth quarter. 
Conclusion
With continued strong cash flow from oil 
production as well as from the Humbly 
Grove gas storage facility, the Company 
will continue to invest heavily in the 
development of its six gas storage projects in 
the UK and pursue gas storage opportunities 
across continental Europe. The Company is 
confident that 2007 will yield positive results 
in relation to the planning and permitting 
efforts expended during the course of 
2006 and is convinced that its increased 
investment in gas storage development will 
provide an attractive long-term return to 
shareholders.
Roland Wessel
Chief Executive Officer
Click to return to contents
