 	 02 	 Star	Energy	Group	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2005	 www.starenergy.co.uk 03 	 www.starenergy.co.uk	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2005	 Star	Energy	Group	plc 03
Chief 
Executive’s 
Statement
The	 year’s	 activities	 were	 dominated	 by	 	 two	 events;	 the	 commissioning	 of	 the	 Company’s	 first	 gas	 store	 at	 Humbly	 Grove	 in	 Hampshire	 and	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Pentex	 Management	 Limited.	 Operational	 from	 November	 2005,	 the	 Company’s	 first	 gas	 storage	 project,	 	 the	 10	 bcf	 Humbly	 Grove	 gas	 store	 is	 the	 Company’s	 first	 step	 in	 its	 plan	 to	 build	 80–90	 bcf	 of	 additional	 gas	 storage	 capacity	 over	 the	 next	 five	 to	 seven	 years.	 The	 Humbly	 Grove	 gas	 store	 construction	 started	 well	 with	 the	 27	 km,	 24"	 diameter	 pipeline	 completed	 ahead	 of	 schedule	 and	 all	 major	 plant	 and	 equipment	 delivered	 on	 time	 and	 within	 budget.	 The	 four	 new	 gas	 storage	 wells	 were	 also	 completed	 in	 time,	 albeit	 with	 some	 cost	 overruns.	 The	 construction	 progress	 during	 the	 summer	 months	 was	 compromised	 by	 the	 EPC	 contractor,	 AMEC,	 which	 has	 resulted	 in	 significant	 cost	 overruns	 of	 some	 £11	 million,	 the	 majority	 of	 which	 has	 only	 recently	 been	 brought	 to	 the	 attention	 of	 Star	 Energy.	 The	 Company	 intends	 to	 mitigate	 these	 cost	 overruns	 by	 using	 the	 adjudication	 clause	 and,	 if	 necessary,	 the	 arbitration	 clause	 in	 its	 contract	 with	 AMEC.	 Despite	 these	 disappointments,	 we	 are	 confident	 that,	 based	 on	 initial	 indications,	 	 the	 Humbly	 Grove	 facility	 will	 perform	 in	 line	 	 with	 expectations.	 In	 August	 2005,	 the	 Company	 took	 another	 significant	 step	 in	 its	 development	 through	 the	 acquisition	 of	 the	 onshore	 UK	 oil	 and	 gas	 company	 Pentex	 Management	 Limited	 for	 an	 initial	 consideration	 of	 £38.5	 million.	 The	 acquisition	 has	 contributed	 valuable	 additional	 oil	 and	 gas	 reserves,	 and	 boosted	 the	 Company’s	 weighted	 average	 oil	 and	 gas	 production	 for	 2005	 to	 4,658	 boepd	 (2004:	 3,502	 boepd).	 Not	 only	 does	 the	 purchase	 increase	 profitability,	 it	 also	 adds	 a	 large	 number	 of	 proven	 and	 producing	 reservoirs,	 some	 of	 which	 may	 form	 the	 basis	 of	 potential	 future	 gas	 storage	 projects.	 In	 addition	 to	 the	 gas	 storage	 wells	 at	 Humbly	 Grove,	 two	 new	 infill	 wells	 were	 drilled	 at	 Singleton	 and	 one	 gas	 well	 at	 Humbly	 Grove	 into	 the	 Rhaetic	 formation.	 A	 3D	 seismic	 survey	 was	 undertaken	 at	 Albury.
Stronger	 oil	 prices	 have	 improved	 the	 profitability	 of	 the	 business	 and	 enhanced	 	 our	 ability	 to	 fund	 the	 expenditure	 on	 engineering	 and	 planning	 activities	 for	 future	 	 gas	 storage	 projects.	 Although	 we	 remain	 concerned	 at	 the	 difficulties	 faced	 in	 obtaining	 planning	 permission	 for	 future	 storage	 projects,	 the	 increased	 level	 of	 support	 from	 Central	 Government,	 coupled	 with	 ever	 strengthening	 market	 drivers,	 gives	 us	 cause	 for	 optimism	 and	 we	 look	 forward	 to	 the	 next	 year	 with	 confidence	 and	 enthusiasm.
Roland Wessel
Chief	 Executive	 Officer
Roland Wessel
Chief	Executive	Officer
Stronger	oil	prices	have	improved	the	 profitability	of	the	business	and	enhanced	 	 our	 ability	 to	 fund	 the	 expenditure	on	 engineering	and	planning	activities	for	 	 future	gas	storage	projects.	
