 02 Star Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Job:	 8644_STAR	EN_FRONT_AW	 Proof:	 07	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Suzanne	 Date:	 10/04/07	
Server:	 Studio	III	 Set-up:	 Tim	 First	Read/Revisions
2006 began well for Star Energy with the 
Humbly Grove gas store being handed over  
to the customer, Vitol SA, for full customer 
nominations on 1 February 2006.
With slow progress towards obtaining planning 
permission for further gas storage capacity, 
2006 has consequently been very challenging. 
Following the refusal of Lincolnshire County 
Council to grant permission for our Welton 
gas store, despite a recommendation from 
local planning officers, the Company took the 
decision to adopt the Gas Act 1965 for future 
gas storage applications. Although this new 
approach has required significant extra work 
and resources, including extensive dialogue 
with the Department of Trade and Industry 
(DTI), the Company believes that it provides 
greater certainty of planning application 
timelines. We will continue with our strategy 
of progressing multiple gas storage projects 
simultaneously and 2007 will see our first 
planning submissions under this legislation. 
Further gas storage capacity remains critical to 
ensuring security of gas supply to householders 
in the coming winters, and we will continue 
to need clear direction and support from 
Central Government to ensure the timely 
commissioning of this capacity. 
As a Company operating onshore in the UK, 
often in quiet rural areas, Star Energy expended 
considerable time and effort in 2006 on 
engaging local communities and stakeholders 
in our plans. We will continue with our 
efforts to provide greater transparency and 
understanding of the impact of our operations 
on these communities, the benefits of what 
we are doing, and how we seek to mitigate the 
impact on their environment. In some cases, 
strong local concerns have caused us to rethink 
our options for well and plant locations, adding 
considerably to the project cost; however, we 
believe that our flexibility of approach will help 
build sustainable, long-term relationships with 
these communities.
During 2006 we explored other opportunities 
to move our business towards our strategic 
goal of being a multi-site gas storage operator. 
These included both offshore UK and non-UK, 
Western European opportunities, with the 
Company having entered into a joint venture  
to evaluate the possibility of converting the 
North Sea Forbes field into a gas store with  
up to 50 bcf of capacity.
We strongly value the support of our investors 
and remain committed to increasing the 
value of their investment through the delivery 
of new gas storage capacity. The Board and 
management expect to report real progress 
with this during 2007 and we are examining all 
options to deliver value to shareholders from 
our existing asset base.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
our management and staff for their hard work 
and support in 2006, and we look forward to 
the challenges of 2007.
Stephen Gutteridge
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Click to return to contents
