 www.statpro.com 20
More importantly, proﬁt before tax and 
exceptional items increased by 56% to 
£2.56 million (2005: £1.64 million) and 
adjusted earnings per share increased 
by 26% to 5.8p (2005: 4.6p). The net 
operating margin in 2006 was 18.1% before 
exceptional items (2005: 15.4%) overall 
and 19.2% (2005: 15.4%) on continuing 
operations before exceptional items.  
The exceptional costs for 2006, totalling 
£1.42 million (2005: nil), primarily relate to 
restructuring costs incurred as a result of 
the acquisition of FRI. Prior to the acquisition 
we had identiﬁed a series of cost savings 
we could make and we acted swiftly to 
implement these initiatives reducing costs 
for the combined business going forward 
by approximately £1.0 million per annum. 
Following the acquisition, we implemented 
our accounting policies on software revenue 
recognition at FRI.  This policy, which is 
more conservative than FRI’s in terms of 
revenue recognition, has had the eﬀect 
of reducing its contribution compared to 
that expected at the time of the acquisition.  
We issued 15.25 million of new shares 
raising £13.16 million before expenses in 
two placings of ordinary shares during the 
year to strengthen the balance sheet and 
to part fund the acquisition of FRI and we 
welcome all our new shareholders.
At the end of 2006 StatPro’s annualised 
recurring revenue contracts amounted 
to £17.66 million up from £10.10 million 
at the start of the year and recognised 
recurring revenue accounted for 85% of 
total revenues (2005: 85%). Cash generation 
was strong with £1.95 million free cash ﬂow 
(2005: £1.42 million). In October 2006 we 
borrowed £12.0 million to complete the 
acquisition of FRI, but net debt at the end 
of 2006 was lower than expected at £7.68 
million (2005: net cash £1.82 million) due to 
improved cash generation and a currency 
gain on our Canadian dollar debt.
Acquisitions 
FRI  We made three acquisitions in 2006 
the most signiﬁcant of which was FRI based 
in Canada which was completed on 24 
October 2006 for a total consideration 
including expenses of CAD56.46 million 
(£26.62 million). FRI has two principal lines 
of business; one is a price feed service for 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
asset managers and custodians; the other 
a portfolio management system for asset 
managers. StatPro has identiﬁed that there 
is signiﬁcant synergy between the data 
requirements of our existing clients and 
the FRI service. 
Furthermore, the directors believe we 
can develop a series of new services by 
combining StatPro’s expertise with FRI’s 
products. Most important amongst these 
is a planned service to price complex 
assets such as Credit Default Swaps (CDS), 
Collateralised Debt Obligations (CDO) and 
Over-The-Counter structured products 
(OTCs) and many others besides. There 
has been a signiﬁcant proliferation of these 
assets over the last few years to the extent 
that more and more asset managers use 
them. Having independent valuations of 
these assets is vital in order to comply with 
the many new regulations that have been 
introduced. We are planning to launch this 
service at the end of 2007.
We also will be providing our clients with 
other data services such as an index service 
and a ﬁxed income data feed for our product 
StatPro Fixed Income (SFI). This is in addition 
to improving and expanding the existing 
excellent price feed service already oﬀered 
by FRI. Early indications suggest that this 
data service will make a positive contribution 
to our numbers in 2007.
FRI’s portfolio management system (Raison) 
has been renamed StatPro Portfolio 
Management (SPM). This is a market leading 
product with a strong client base in Canada. 
We intend to market this initially in North 
America only and we have changed the 
business model from a licence fee and 
support model to an annual licence model. 
Whilst this has a short term impact on 
the revenue, the directors believe that in 
the long run this is the best way to build 
signiﬁcant shareholder value. SPM has a 
solid pipeline of prospects and is expected 
to make a positive contribution to our 
results for 2007.
Alphai In April 2006 we acquired an 
Australian business called Alphai that 
develops performance software. We are 
integrating this product into our Web 
Service platform and we expect to launch 
this late in 2007. This acquisition has also 
given us a foothold in the Australian market 
and we recently won a significant new 
client there for our SPA and SFI products 
which we hope will be the ﬁrst of many 
in the territory.
Kizen In May 2006 we acquired this South 
African business based in Cape Town 
that develops compliance software. The 
acquisition has helped reinforce StatPro’s 
strong existing position in the South African 
asset management market where the Group 
now has recurring revenues of around £1.4 
million. We have been pleased with Kizen’s 
progress to date having sold ﬁve systems 
since the acquisition and we expect to 
build on this in 2007.
New Business
Sales were strong in all regions in 2006 
compared with 2005 and previous years. 
In Europe we had another good year with 
our Risk, Fixed Income and Performance 
products all doing well. In South Africa we 
had an outstanding year with eight new 
clients and many sales to existing clients. 
The UK market was good, but a number of 
opportunities were delayed into 2007. The 
US market ﬁnally improved following a few 
diﬃcult years with new sales up strongly 
with a number of signiﬁcant deals signed 
with custodian banks.
60% of new business by value came from 
new clients and 40% from existing clients. 
The average number of products per client is 
1.6. Following our acquisitions this ratio tends 
to fall (as a result of an increased number 
of clients with initially only one product), 
but the average number of products per 
client for our top 30 clients by total recurring 
revenue is now 3.7 products and those top 
30 represent about 50% of our recurring 
revenues.
Sales progress was made for all products, 
but the best performers were Risk (SRM) 
and Fixed Income (SFI). Indeed there is a 
strong interrelationship between these two 
products as they are both required by clients 
to help analyse the risk and return from 
complex credit instruments and StatPro’s 
continued expertise in this domain has 
helped cement our position in the market 
as a leading supplier.
Highlights This year has been another one of solid performance by StatPro with strong organic growth complemented 
by three signiﬁcant acquisitions. Organic revenue grew by 18% from £10.79 million to £12.74 million and including 
acquisitions, revenue increased by 35% (2005: 19%) to £14.60 million.  
another solid performance… “I warmly congratulate all my colleagues 
on an excellent performance in 2006” “…few competitors possess both the expertise and
the geographical infrastructure to deliver the 
level of global service that we oﬀer.”     23 statpro momentum annual report & accounts 2006
Since StatPro was founded in 1994 we 
have made eight acquisitions in total, all 
of them adding a new product, new skills, 
new clients and new territories.
The acquisition of FRI allows us to provide 
our clients with data for the ﬁrst time so 
that we will now be able to oﬀer a complete 
service. As we expand our product base, we 
believe that our oﬀering becomes more 
attractive not least because our critical 
mass is now such that we can oﬀer the 
highest quality service to asset managers 
of all sizes. Including FRI our regional 
balance now means that approximately 
43% of our recurring revenue comes from 
North America and 48% from the UK and 
Continental Europe with the Rest of the 
World (predominantly South Africa and 
Australia) having about 9%.
Completing the acquisition of a company is 
the ﬁrst step; integration and maximisation 
of efficiencies in the enlarged Group is 
the vital process to generate value. Four 
months after completion, the integration 
of FRI is progressing well and we have a 
number of speciﬁc integration projects 
for each functional area of our business 
processes. Not least amongst these is to 
promote our existing products to the FRI 
clients and the FRI products to the StatPro 
clients in order to achieve cross-sales. Sales 
processes typically take an average of six 
months to a year, so we are very pleased 
that we already have our ﬁrst cross sell of 
a StatPro product to an FRI client and that 
the pipeline for further cross sells is looking 
promising. The integration stage will be 
substantially completed by the end of the 
third quarter of 2007 when we will be able 
to launch a new range of services which 
combine software with data.
The focus of our expertise is now ﬁrmly on 
the burgeoning market of complex assets 
and we believe that StatPro is very well 
placed to beneﬁt from the expertise and 
intellectual property that is vested in our 
software. Barriers to entry into this market are 
becoming higher and we believe that few 
competitors possess both the expertise and 
the geographical infrastructure to deliver 
the level of global service that we oﬀer. We 
will seek to build on this lead in 2007.
People
As previously announced, Dominic Wheatley 
resigned from the Board in January 2007. 
Dominic had been a non-executive 
director since 1999 helping guide the 
Company through its major transition 
from an unquoted loss-making business 
to a successful proﬁtable dividend paying 
AIM listed Company. The business has been 
transformed over the past eight years 
and has grown both organically and by 
acquisition. The Board expresses its deep 
gratitude to Dominic for his contribution, 
advice and support and wishes him well 
in his other business ventures.
StatPro’s continuing success is all about 
people and the expertise in the business. I 
welcome new colleagues who have recently 
joined and warmly congratulate all my 
colleagues on an excellent performance 
in 2006 and once more urge everyone to 
make 2007 StatPro’s best year yet.
Dividend
We paid our maiden dividend for 2005 
in May 2006 of 0.5p per share and an 
interim dividend for 2006 of 0.3p per 
share in November 2006 and the Board 
now recommends the payment of a ﬁnal 
dividend of 0.7p for 2006 on 30 May 2007 
to those shareholders on the register on 27 
April 2007 making a total dividend of 1.0p 
per share for 2006 (2005: 0.5p per share). We 
intend to maintain a progressive dividend 
policy reﬂecting the balance between the 
investment needs of the business and 
growth in underlying cash and earnings 
per share.
Outlook
We enter 2007, as we did in 2006, with 
considerable conﬁdence.  We have a large 
pipeline of prospects, a growing number of 
clients and a wider range of products and 
data that meet the complex requirements 
of increasingly demanding asset managers, 
who we believe are planning to increase 
investment in their portfolio analytics 
systems. The average value of contracts 
is expected to be higher than in previous 
years and our goal remains to achieve net 
operating margins of over 20%.
StatPro is now a truly international business 
with just 16% of recurring revenue deriving 
from UK based clients. This has resulted 
in an increased exposure to currencies, 
predominantly US dollar, Canadian 
dollar and euro. Whilst we have costs in 
all these currencies, we have a residual 
profit exposure on the translation of 
results into sterling. We will continue to 
take reasonable measures to hedge our 
exchange risk including matching currencies 
of loans against net overseas investments 
and expected cash ﬂows.  
We have had a satisfactory start to the 
current ﬁnancial year with further progress 
on the integration of FRI and our cross selling 
initiatives, and overall performance is in line 
with our expectations. We will provide a 
further update on trading at the AGM on 
16 May 2007.
Justin Wheatley Chief Executive
30 March 2007
Strategy Our strategy remains to build strong relationships with our clients and provide them with a coherent product 
platform that delivers both better value and better analysis. This means that we have grown the Group by acquiring 
new products and investing in such products for growth, rather than developing products from inception.    
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW…CONTINUED
the focus of our expertise…
