 Jus tin Wheatley
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
10
We are pleased with the excellent progress 
achieved during the year in transforming 
our business to a purely cloud-based 
analytics provider. We have seen a 
significant increase in our existing clients 
signing up to StatPro Revolution as the word 
spreads about its unique capabilities to help 
asset managers increase sales, improve 
their client service, comply with regulations 
and reduce their costs. It is our view that 
we can help clients greatly reduce the 
complexity of their client reporting process 
by replacing old technology with new.
The number of clients using StatPro 
Revolution grew to 257 in 33 countries 
by year end (2012: 156 in 22 countries) 
and StatPro Revolution recurring revenue 
increased by 114% to £3.20 million (2012: 
£1.49 million). We successfully grew 
the number of our fund administrator 
partners to 34 by year end (2012: 21). 
Fund administrators are core partners, 
ensuring that we can provide our 
clients with a smooth implementation 
process of StatPro Revolution.
Financial highlights
We are pleased to report that revenue 
for 2013 increased to £32.49 million 
(2012: £32.00 million). As expected, our 
profits before tax reduced to £3.11 million 
(2012: £3.78 million) following increased 
investment in development, sales and 
client services for our cloud services. Cash 
generated from operations was lower at 
£9.40 million (2012: £10.18 million), but 
our net cash position at the end of the 
year increased to £4.00 million (2012: 
3.67 million). Adjusted earnings per share 
reduced to 4.5p (2012: 5.9p) and the Board 
has recommended an increase in the full 
year dividend to 2.8p per share (2012: 2.7p).
A key performance indicator is the measure 
of the total value of contracts we have 
with clients who have also subscribed for 
StatPro Revolution. This grew by 134% 
to £9.19 million (2012: £3.92 million) and 
represents 37% (2012: 16%) of our total 
recurring software revenues, a strong 
indication that we are making good 
progress in demonstrating to our existing 
clients the benefits of StatPro Revolution. 
Total annualised recurring revenues grew 
to £28.72 million (2012: £28.47 million). 
There was a reduction in revenues from 
StatPro Seven to £24.02 million (2012: 
£24.60 million) and data revenues to £4.21 
million (2012: £4.69 million), counteracted 
by an increase in StatPro Revolution 
subscriptions generating overall growth.
Strategic focus
Our three areas of focus are: existing 
clients, fund administrators and the 
growing private wealth market. Our 
existing clients are a ready-made 
marketplace for StatPro Revolution and we 
are making steady progress in this area. 
We believe that in the course of 2014, as 
we add functionality to StatPro Revolution, 
we will see an even greater uptake. 
Fund administrators are a key focus for 
us as they hold the investment book of 
record for many asset managers. This 
means that once they have built an 
automated data connection to StatPro 
Revolution, adding more of their clients is a 
relatively straightforward process. It is our 
view that fund administrators will win a 
growing market share of the performance 
reporting market as outsourcing this 
function is an economically logical 
action for most asset managers. 
However, we also think that our 
combined solution of StatPro R+ and 
StatPro Revolution will enable fund 
administrators to offer a more flexible, 
more responsive and more sophisticated 
service than they could do otherwise, 
due to our leading-edge technology. 
Lastly, the private wealth market offers us 
many opportunities. This is in part because 
it is relatively under-serviced in the area of 
sophisticated analysis, yet the companies 
in this market are quick to adopt any tool 
that will give them an advantage over 
rivals. It is also a growing trend among 
the larger asset managers to merge their 
asset management and private wealth 
businesses, to reap economies of scale and 
provide institutional investment skills to the 
private wealth market. Such organisations 
need and want self-service solutions like 
StatPro Revolution in the same way that 
banks have adopted online banking: they 
effectively outsource the responsibility 
of reporting to the individual client and 
cut costs significantly. We already have a 
number of large private banks as clients 
of StatPro Revolution and we believe that 
we can grow our revenues in this area.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 11
Business transformation
The biggest challenge for StatPro is the 
business transformation from supplier 
of traditional software solutions to a new 
cloud-based service provider. It has been 
our view from early on that the economic 
reality of the productivity gains possible 
through new cloud technology will cause 
significant change in our market. The 
complexity of old processes will be swept 
away and replaced with entirely new 
technology platforms. One very large asset 
manager client has a project to replace 100 
separate back-office systems with just one 
cloud solution. We believe that this type of 
project will happen increasingly frequently 
and StatPro is well placed to take advantage 
of this as we have made the necessary 
and significant investments to do so. 
As we have said before, it will take a 
number of years to complete the business 
transformation, where most of our 
clients have wholly or partly migrated 
to StatPro Revolution and StatPro R+, 
but we believe we remain on track to 
achieve a successful transformation.
Reinventing the performance 
 reporting process
With the launch of the beta version of 
StatPro R+ in 2013 and its combination 
with StatPro Revolution, we believe that 
our new technology will make asset 
managers rethink how they structure their 
performance teams. Data management 
has become a massively labour-intensive 
and complex task for many organisations 
and StatPro R+ offers a means of greatly 
simplifying this as well as offering 
significant increases in scale and speed. Our 
new technology will make it practical for 
organisations to operate client reporting 
on a daily basis rather than the current 
industry standard of monthly reporting. 
The issues of checking data and getting 
sign-off by the compliance function are also 
dealt with in an efficient and transparent 
way. It is also possible to offer more 
detailed analysis for smaller portfolios, 
such as private wealth, and consequently 
expand the number of reported portfolios.
On the information distribution side, asset 
managers are increasingly realising that 
the self-service model of client reporting 
is the strategic route they must adopt. 
Sending out standard reports, which 
are known to be neither wanted nor 
understood, is a very unproductive activity. 
On the other hand, a solution like StatPro 
Revolution, where, subject to permission, 
you can see which clients have logged on 
and when and what type of analysis they 
were interested in, provides invaluable 
intelligence, as well as being much cheaper 
to run. This is a radical turning point for 
the industry, and StatPro is well placed to 
profit from this evident market trend. 
Development 
There were several significant version 
releases of StatPro Revolution in 2013. At 
the start of the year we launched our very 
popular stock-level attribution analysis. 
We followed that with the launch of our 
first premium module in May 2013 for 
UCITS reporting. This has proven popular 
and now represents about 6% of StatPro 
Revolution recurring revenue. In the 
second half of 2013, we focused on adding 
extra sharing functionality so that clients 
can share precisely what they want within 
StatPro Revolution, including specified 
portfolios and time periods. This means 
that a mutual fund company can share 
information on its funds up to a particular 
date, avoiding revealing its current 
position, whilst being transparent to its 
distributors and investors. It also greatly 
simplifies the management of the process.
In 2014, we have an ambitious schedule of 
development, starting with the release of 
our AIFMD module which is a complement 
to our UCITS module. All alternative 
investment fund managers (AIFM) in the 
EU must comply with the new directive 
which stipulates how they report on their 
derivatives exposure. Our new module 
provides a simple and cost-effective way 
to achieve this and we expect it to receive 
a good level of uptake. Following this, we 
intend to deliver an extended fixed income 
attribution module for which we have 
significant demand as well as add to the 
risk management capabilities of StatPro 
Revolution. With these two developments, 
we will be able to offer existing clients 
(approximately 55) of StatPro Seven 
fixed income and risk modules (SFI & 
SRM) a functionally superior upgrade.
People
I would like to thank all our employees 
for the great work they have done in 
2013. Transforming a business is not easy, 
but everyone has made a great effort to 
contribute to the process, and I also know 
that everyone is very proud of the new 
products and services that we offer.
Dividend
In line with our policy of paying a 
progressive dividend, which aims to balance 
return to investors with our investment 
needs, we are pleased to announce an 
increase in our full year dividend to 
2.8p per share in 2013 (2012: 2.7p).
Outlook
As StatPro Revolution begins to gain 
critical mass in terms of clients, users 
and revenue, we believe that the next 
steps become clearer. As our clients use 
StatPro Revolution more, we note the 
pick-up of additional subscriptions, with 
approximately one-third of revenues 
coming from repeat purchases. As our 
clients begin to share their portfolios 
with others outside their companies, 
we note that we have more in-bound 
calls from prospects. As we get more 
practised at selling StatPro Revolution, 
we see our pipeline of opportunities 
growing steadily. As our products add 
more functionality and capacity, we can 
cover more needs of asset managers. For 
all these and other reasons we believe 
that 2014 will be a good year for StatPro.
Justin Wheatley
Group Chief Executive
14 March 2014
