   Overview  We are pleased with our progress 
in 2010.  As has been shown in recent years, we 
have a robust business which is profitable and 
significantly cash generative.  We operate in an 
expanding global market whose growth is set to 
accelerate and we have bolstered our product 
offering to cater for that demand.
The major event of 2010 for StatPro was the beta 
launch of cloud-based StatPro Revolution. We have 
been working on StatPro Revolution since 2007 
and have been steadily increasing our investment 
in it over this period in anticipation of the growth 
in the global asset management industry. StatPro 
Revolution is so named because of its significant 
difference to traditional software in terms of ease 
of use, deployment, price and scalability. We have 
designed it to make it easy and free for users to 
share information with others and this will be the 
key benefit of the service to subscribers.
The investment in Revolution has impacted our 
profits in 2010 and we expect will continue to do 
so during 2011, as this is an important part of our 
future growth strategy. We are delighted to have our 
first customers for Revolution including RBC Dexia 
Investment Services, after it went live on 28 February 
2011, and we hope to sign up many more partners 
and clients during the course of 2011. As noted in 
our January 2011 trading statement, we will also be 
expanding our investment during 2011 in StatPro 
Revolution not only in development but also for 
support, sales and marketing.
We continue to make excellent progress with 
StatPro Seven. We are working hard to move 
our clients to our hosted environment and now 
have 30% by value converted (2009: 20%). We 
also secured 44 new client contracts during 
2010. One of our key strategies is to sell StatPro 
Revolution and StatPro Seven together, with 
StatPro Seven as the production system and 
StatPro Revolution as the distribution system. 
In this way, clients can enjoy the combined 
benefits of our services.
Financial Highlights  Revenue for the year was up 
5% to £33.13 million (2009: £31.56 million). Adjusted 
profit before tax was down 3% to £6.68 million 
(2009: £6.90 million) reflecting the investment 
in StatPro Revolution which reduced operating 
margins to 22.3% (2009: 24.7%). Nevertheless, net 
debt was reduced to £5.52 million (2009: £8.89 
million) and cash flow from operating activities 
(before exceptional payments) increased 5% to 
£10.66 million (2009: £10.15 million). Our renewal 
rate improved to 92% (2009: 90%). We still felt 
some residual impact of the 2008 financial crisis 
as consolidations and acquisitions represent the 
fundamental reasons behind cancellations of client 
contracts, however, the very stable nature of our 
core products, the long term contracts and recurring 
revenue that they provide, enable us to invest with 
confidence in the next generation of technology.
Regional performance  The strongest markets for 
us in 2010 were in the EMEAA region, in particular in 
Europe. Our strategy for StatPro Seven has opened 
up the middle market for our services and resulted in 
an increase in activity. There is considerable interest in 
risk systems and improving reporting solutions in all 
these markets. Our South African and Australian offices 
also performed well and pre-marketing of StatPro 
Revolution shows that there is a strong appetite for it 
in these markets where asset managers generally have 
smaller budgets. In North America, we made good 
progress with sales of StatPro Seven, however, sales of 
StatPro Unlimited (data services) were lower year on 
year. The vast US market has considerable potential for 
StatPro Revolution and Seven and we stepped up our 
investment in sales staff during the year and we plan to 
recruit more sales people in 2011.  Products  The StatPro Revolution service is a powerful 
cloud-based service with rich functionality. It comprises 
two main parts; the first is a database of over 500,000 
assets with historic prices, together with thousands of 
benchmarks and investment classifications; the second 
is that it has an integrated suite of portfolio analytics 
including performance, attribution and risk together 
with reporting, publishing and research.
It is possible for a client to upload the historic 
positions in a portfolio and then see the portfolio’s 
performance, risk and attribution with full reporting 
in a few minutes. As an online service, it is accessible 
immediately from any location with internet access. 
We believe one of the biggest business benefits of the 
service will prove to be the ability to share the analysis. 
A client can “invite” an investor or colleague to see his 
portfolio and so share it. This feature will be of great use 
between professional investors such as a mutual fund 
manager and an independent financial adviser (“IF A”) or 
between asset managers and pension fund clients. As 
all the data is in one database and is shared rather than 
exchanged, the use and access of data is greatly simplified.
StatPro Revolution is priced at $100 per portfolio, per 
month for 100 users and is therefore extremely economic. 
A company with 20 portfolios can have up to 2,000 users 
for just $2,000 a month with no limit on the number of 
people who can access the published reports.
Through the course of 2011 we plan to add many 
additional features and continue to expand the database. 
S t r a t e g y 		We have three target markets: our existing 
clients, distributors and online sales. 
For our existing clients, who tend to be the larger 
asset managers, we have now built links between 
StatPro Revolution and StatPro Seven. This will enable 
our existing StatPro Seven clients to easily integrate 
with StatPro Revolution, bringing them considerable 
benefits. Many clients have a problem reconciling 
front and back office performance results because 
the systems are not integrated. The back office role 
is to produce the statement of record, and the front 
office team often prefers analysis provided by separate 
terminal-based solutions. With StatPro Revolution, it is 
now possible to achieve both as the service provides 
the sort of analysis required by portfolio managers but 
can use the information produced by the back office.
We are also focusing on building a network of distributors 
for StatPro Revolution. Our first such distributor is RBC 
Dexia Investment Services (“RBCD”) who plan to use a 
white-labelled version of StatPro Revolution to provide 
portfolio analytics to their many clients. RBCD now has 
the most sophisticated portfolio analytics service of 
any custodian and can implement a new client almost 
immediately. The technology of Revolution is ideal for 
custodian banks as they do not have to manage any 
complicated IT platform or worry about installing a client. 
Other potential distributors are market data vendors 
and software companies. There are many companies 
especially in the back office that have strong client 
positions in different markets. As they have the clients’ 
portfolio data, adding StatPro Revolution to their product 
suite is a relatively easy task for them which will add great 
value to their services. We are marketing this to a wide 
range of companies in many parts of the world.
Finally, there is the online market. Our research shows that 
there are at least 25,000 companies that have $1.0 billion 
or less under management. The rapid development of the 
BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) economies and other 
markets, means that there will soon be many more asset 
managers in this category. South Africa is a compelling 
example of the rapid growth of an asset management 
industry in strongly growing economies. In 2000 there 
was approximately $100 billion under management in 
South Africa, growing in just ten years to over $1 trillion.  
The obvious way for such newly established businesses in 
these markets to access portfolio analytics is via an online 
service providing a lower initial price point and scalability 
to easily expand the use of the service as they grow. Our 
challenge lies in making people aware that our service 
exists and ensuring that we progressively cover more data 
that is useful for each market.
People  StatPro employs around 250 people in 10 
offices around the world. I would like to thank every 
one of them for their contribution to StatPro over the 
last year. We are all looking forward to 2011 and the 
exciting challenges that lie ahead.
Dividend  In line with our policy of paying a progressive 
dividend that balances our investment needs with return 
to investors, we are pleased to announce an increase in 
our dividend to 2.4p from 2.1p in 2009.
Outlook  StatPro is a robust business operating in a 
growth market. The steady recurring revenue from our 
core business provides great stability for StatPro and allows 
us to invest with confidence. Our accumulated expertise 
in portfolio analytics makes us a business with rare skills 
and the technology of Revolution, based on the best 
SaaS initiatives, provides us with an exciting opportunity 
for future growth. For these reasons, although we cannot 
be sure of economic conditions or other factors, we are 
looking forward to the rest of 2011 and beyond.
Justin Wheatley
Chief Executive
25 March 2011
