 STELLAR DIAMONDS PLC       7
At Tongo, the Dyke-1 resource was increased from 
660,000 carats to 1,074,000 carats (+69%) through deeper 
drilling, and the resource base now extends to 300m 
below surface. The high grade and high value of 120cpht 
and $248 per carat were maintained and this demonstrates 
consistency, both along strike and at depth, of the dyke. 
The quality of the Dyke-1 diamonds is excellent with a very 
high percentage of gems that exhibit shapes and colours 
that will be in great demand when in production.
There is also considerable potential to further increase 
the resource base at Tongo as we are yet to really test the 
adjacent Dykes-2, 3 and 4. However, limited bulk sampling 
at Dyke-4 this year yielded grades of 109cpht and diamond 
values of $140 per carat, so this target is certainly worth 
further attention. Furthermore, previous microdiamond 
sampling at Dykes-2 and 3 yielded modelled commercial 
diamond grades of 140cpht and 185cpht respectively, so 
we have plans to drill test these two kimberlites during our 
next phase of drilling.
CE O’S  
STATEMENT
Tongo 5tph Process Plant
BUSINESS REVIEW
I am once again very pleased to report that a number of key milestones have been achieved on track and 
within budget. Our key objectives for this past year were firstly to achieve an increase in our resource 
bases at the Tongo and Droujba projects, which was then followed by the completion of economic 
scoping studies. This process has allowed Stellar to prioritise the higher value Tongo project and focus 
our resources on delivering a full feasibility study during the course of 2014.
Stellar’s resource base has increased 29% from 3.1 million carats to 4 million carats and there is potential to significantly 
increase this further through additional drilling of existing and as yet undrilled kimberlites within the project areas.
JORC COMPLIANT RESOURCES (+1mm)
Kimberlite Tonnes Grade (cpht) Carats Value $/ct In-situ Value $/t
Tongo 895,000 120 1,074,000 248 298
Droujba 3,960,000 63 2,474,000 45 28
Katcha 319,000 14 446,000 57 80
TOTAL 
RESOURCES
5,174,000 3,994,000
MILESTONES ACHIEVED
∞  Increased resource base +9% to 4 million carats
∞  Economic scoping studies successfully completed
∞ Tongo project prioritised to feasibility stage
∞ Maintained excellent health and safety record 8       ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Kimberlite Strike Length (m) Grade (cpht) Value ($/ct)
Dyke-1 2,500 120 248
Dyke-2 800 140 unknown
Dyke-3 300 185 unknown
Dyke-4 1000 109 140
At Droujba, exploration work was limited to the drilling and 
sampling of the 5km long Katcha dyke that lies adjacent 
to the Droujba pipe. Although Katcha is very extensive in 
strike length, drilling only focussed on a 470m section 
near to the Droujba pipe and down to a depth of 150m. 
Bulk sampling was also conducted in this section and the 
sample was processed via the on-site 5tph DMS plant 
with diamond recovery by X-Ray Flowsort under secure 
conditions.
From this work a resource of 446,000 carats was obtained 
for a 470m section of Katcha to a depth of 150m, at a grade 
of 140cpht and diamond value of $57 per carat. Clearly if 
this resource grade was rolled out to the entire length of 
the Katcha kimberlite then a multi-million carat diamond 
resource base can be achieved.
Bulk sampling of the Droujba pipe was also undertaken to 
provide a larger parcel of diamonds for valuation. During 
this work, 1,477 carats were produced at an average 
diamond grade of 100cpht from the hypabyssal kimberlite. 
When combined with the previous bulk sampling results an 
average bulk sample grade of 88cpht was realised, which 
is significantly higher than the signed off resource grade of 
70cpht for the hypabyssal kimberlite. We therefore think 
that the actual grade of Droujba is higher than previously 
published. It should be noted that large stones of 67 and 
49 carats were produced during this work and although 
they were poor quality stones it does show the potential 
for large stones in the Droujba pipe.
Following on from the resource work, we appointed 
independent consulting group Paradigm Project 
Management (PPM) to conduct economic scoping studies 
at Tongo and Droujba. The objective was to determine 
preliminary economics of the deposits and allow Stellar 
the opportunity to prioritise one project into the feasibility 
study stage.
Droujba 5tph Process Plant
Droujba bulk sampling
Droujba Plant & Pipe
BUSINESS REVIEW
CEO’S STATEMENT
(CONTINUED) STELLAR DIAMONDS PLC       9
As you will read in the project sections of this report, the 
Tongo project at the current time demonstrates superior 
economics and a healthy NPV of $53million, which is why 
we recently announced the decision to push T ongo Dyke-1 
towards a full feasibility study. This programme, to include 
detailed drilling, bulk sampling and environmental/social 
impact studies, is expected to take 12 months to complete 
but at the end of this period we hope to be in a position 
to take a production decision. Whilst we focus our efforts 
on the Tongo project, Droujba will be placed on care and 
maintenance for the next year.
The Kono license dispute in unfortunately ongoing. Both 
diplomatic and legal approaches continue to be followed 
though this has not yet led to the reinstatement of the 
permits. Local (Sierra Leone) and International legal 
opinions clearly show that the licenses were illegally 
revoked by the Ministry of Mines in Sierra Leone and 
Stellar reserves the right to invoke international arbitration 
if diplomacy continues to be unsuccessful.
I continue to believe in a very good outlook for the 
diamond sector. Since the crisis in 2009, diamond 
prices have recovered strongly and although we have 
seen some volatility in prices this past year, the short 
term outlook is for stability and improvement in prices 
into 2014. Furthermore, although there are a number of 
mines due to enter production over the next five years, 
depletion of existing large mines continues as they go 
deeper and underground, so  this new production is likely 
to be more than offset by reduction in exiting production 
lines. With continued growth of middle class wealth in 
China and India, demand for diamond jewellery is set to 
show continued strong growth. Therefore, the forecast of 
demand far exceeding supply of rough diamonds remains 
in place and our strategy of being a significant diamond 
producer in a market of increasing rough prices is the right 
one.
Our continued project development in pursuit of becoming 
a producer would not be possible without the ongoing 
support of our shareholders. Through their continued 
support, Stellar has raised a total of £2.6million in new 
equity funding over the past 12 months. We welcomed a 
new significant shareholder during this process, Foradex 
Invest, which now holds a 13% interest in Stellar.
Finally, I once again extend my sincere gratitude to 
everyone involved in Stellar: from our shareholders 
for providing ongoing understanding and support, our 
Board of Directors who provide excellent guidance and 
governance and not least of all our management and 
staff for continuing to deliver on our milestones, year 
after year. I commend the ongoing dedication and work 
ethic of our teams under challenging economic and 
operational conditions. With our Tongo project now 
moving through the feasibility stage, I feel that the hard 
work and commitment is about to be rewarded with a 
positive production decision by the end of 2014.
KARL SMITHSON
Chief Executive Officer
BUSINESS REVIEW
