 6       ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIW
At Tongo the JORC compliant diamond resource was increased 
from 660,000 carats to 1.1 million carats through additional 
drilling. The diamond grade was confirmed at 120cpht through 
further sampling and the average diamond value modelled at $248 
per carat, providing Stellar with a very high in-situ kimberlite value 
of $298 per tonne.
At the Droujba project, the JORC compliant diamond resource 
was increased from 2.5 million carats to 3.1 million carats through 
drilling and sampling a small 700m section of the 5,000m long 
Katcha dyke which runs adjacent to the Droujba pipe. The Katcha 
dyke has a grade of 140cpht and modelled diamond value of $57 
per carat. The project diamond resource could be considerably 
expanded through further dilling and sampling of the Katcha Dyke. 
Further bulk sampling of the Droujba pipe confirmed a grade of 
88cpht and diamond value of $45 per carat. In order to prioritse 
our projects, Stellar decided to conduct economic scoping studies 
of the existing resources at Tongo and Droujba projects, using 
existing revenues. Paradigm Project Management (PPM), based 
in Johannesburg, was appointed as independent consultants to 
undertake this work.
The conclusion was that the Tongo project is currently deemed 
to have better economic potential than the Droujba project under 
current market conditions, primarily due to the higher diamond 
grade and value of Dyke-1 compared to the Droujba pipe. Based 
on the work conducted by PPM and extrapolated for the Board’s 
assessment, Tongo has a calculated NPV of $53million. Therefore, 
the Board decided to prioritise and accelerate the Tongo project 
through the feasibility study stage and, hopefully, towards a 
production decision in the latter part of 2014. Although Droujba 
has potential for a short term, three year open pit mining operation 
producing over 300,000 carats, a higher diamond price is required 
to make a larger scale mine feasible. The Company has placed 
Droujba on care and maintenance with the economics periodically 
reviewed as the diamond price changes going forward. The 
current consensus is that the rough diamond price will increase 
significantly in the next few years and the Board believes that 
Droujba has the potential to deliver a good return for shareholders.
The Kono license dispute with the Ministry of Mines continued, 
though little progress has been made towards the reinstatement of 
the two permits that the Company believes were wrongly revoked. 
Legal opinions by local Sierra Leonean and International based 
lawyers support the Company’s position and although the Board 
prefers a negotiated settlement, it is currently considering its legal 
position in respect of this issue.
Stellar completed two share placings with new and existing 
shareholders this year, raising a total of £2.6million. These funds 
were primarily allocated towards the scoping studies and ongoing 
Tongo costs as part of the feasibility study. For the year ended 30 
June 2013, the Group incurred an operating loss before interest, 
tax and impairments of $3m (2012: $4m) - In addition to this, an 
impairment charge of $2m (2012: $1.4m) was recognised in the 
year. The operating loss is in line with the Board’s expectations 
given the Group’s stage of development and has been reduced 
steadily over recent years. The impairment charge related to the 
Droujba project in Guinea following the results of the Conceptual 
Economic Scoping Study completed in the year and the decision 
to focus on Tongo kimberlite project in Sierra Leone. At the balance 
sheet date, the Group had net assets of $16.3m and no debt.
The rough diamond market continues to show some volatility in 
pricing, though a good first half of 2013 was generally reported 
by producers. However, tight liquidity is an ongoing issue as the 
diamond banks continue to tighten credit lines, and a weakening 
rupee has not helped the predominantly Indian manufacturers. 
Nevertheless, the fundamentals of the diamond market remain 
robust with a long term supply deficit forecast as rough and 
polished demand is driven by strong growth in Chinese, and to 
a lesser extent Indian and USA, diamond jewellery consumption. 
Although some new diamond mines are coming on stream over 
the next five years, these are unlikely to meet the demand growth 
in the longer term and therefore the consensus remains that rough 
prices will significantly increase as a result. 
The Board believes the next year will be a key milestone in the 
Company’s history which will hopefully lead to a positive decision 
in favour of production at the Tongo project. The Board remains 
confident that if the current rough diamond price increases 
with the expected consensus, the Droujba project will become 
economically viable.
I would like to extend my thanks to the continued support of 
shareholders in difficult market conditions. Your Company is well 
positioned to evolve from an exploration to mining company and 
fulfill its strategy of becoming a diamond producer in a market that 
has some of the best economic fundamentals the resource sector 
has to offer. I would finally like to thank the Stellar management and 
staff for their unwavering commitment to meeting all targets and 
objectives under often very challenging conditions. I am confident 
that they will continue to deliver results and with the support of 
shareholders we will take this Company to the next level.
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder,
Stellar continues to make good progress on 
its strategy of advancing key diamond projects 
towards production. This past year we have 
delivered on our objectives of increasing our 
diamond resource base and conducting preliminary 
economic scoping studies at the Tongo and 
Droujba projects. Stellar now has a signed off 
inferred resource base of 4 million carats, a 29% 
increase compared to last year.
LORD DARESBURY
Non-Executive Chairman
21st November 2013
