 8       ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
MILESTONES ACHIEVED
∞  Secured Baoulé project and brought into trial  
    mining production
∞  First diamond results exceeded expectations
∞  Progressed Tongo project to the definitive  
    feasibility stage
∞  Dyke-1 bulk sampling yielded higher diamond  
    grades and values
∞  Maintained excellent health and safety record
BUSINESS REVIEW
CEO’S  
STATEMENT
In Guinea our efforts have been focussed on establishing 
trial mine production over the 5 hectare Baoulé kimberlite.  
During 2013 we targeted this kimberlite and were delighted 
in December 2013 to sign a joint venture with local group 
Tassiliman.  This JV entitled Stellar to earn a 75% interest 
through expenditure of US$5 million.  We took the view 
to accelerate this earn-in through the vending in of our 
existing diamond processing plants and machinery that 
were unutilised at the Mandala and Droujba sites. Coupled 
with cash expenditure we achieved this earn-in during the 
year and are now 75% holders of the project.
The Baoulé pipe has significant potential.  It is large, 
outcrops at surface, is diamondiferous and we believe 
is a source kimberlite of some of the large, bonanza 
stones that have been discovered by alluvial mining in the 
immediate area over the past decades.  We have internally 
modelled 22 million tonnes of ore in the pipe which at a 
minimum grade of 13cpht suggests a target resource of 
3 million carats.  Our initial results have been reported at 
17cpht and based on the quality and size of diamonds we 
see, it is not unreasonable to expect a diamond value of 
US$200 per carat or higher. This gives us a target in-situ 
value for Baoulé of at least US$600 million.
We decided that trial mining of the Baoulé pipe was the 
preferred route to creating value from this project in the 
shorter term.  We achieved this within six months from 
concept (post-period end) through relocating our 100tph 
and 5tph DMS plants to the Baoulé project area and re-
erecting them in a configuration that could process 
both decomposed and harder kimberlite.  Considering 
that this was done in the midst of the rainy season and 
the Ebola outbreak is testament to the skills, calibre and 
determination of our team in Guinea.
Our first results from Baoulé have confirmed our belief that 
the pipe has viable grade and contains a large diamonds 
stone size distribution.  The presence of a number of five 
carat stones within the first 200 carats recovered gives 
us all cause for excitement.  We plan to trial mine Baoulé 
for at least 12 months in order to produce 2,000 carats 
per month which will not only yield cash flow but also 
provide a high level of confidence in the grade and value 
of the pipe, hopefully to include some large, high value 
stones in the process.  We furthermore intend to drill out 
the resource during the next year so that at the end of 
the trial mining period we can have an independently 
declared resource and pre-feasibility study that could be 
used as justification to move to larger scale commercial 
production.
At Tongo in Sierra Leone, the 1.1 million carat Dyke-1 
resource was advanced to the definitive feasibility study 
stage.  The established high resource grade of 120cpht 
and high diamond value of US$248 per carat makes Dyke-
1 one of the highest in-situ value kimberlites worldwide in 
dollar per tonne terms (US$298 per tonne).
In order to advance the feasibility study it was necessary 
to undertake another phase of bulk sampling.  This 
commenced in late 2013 as it is a relatively long lead time 
to collect, process and evaluate the required sample.  
The bulk sampling was completed just after the report 
period and results announced.  The recovered grade for 
the 1,180 carats yielded from the sample was calculated 
at 183cpht, which is significantly higher than the 120cpht 
resource grade.  This would indicate that the 1.1 million 
carat resource would be increased on the basis of the 
higher grade.  Furthermore, the continued presence of 
excellent, high value diamonds in the bulk sample was 
encouraging to see, particularly a 6.7 carat octahedral 
gem.  Stellar therefore retained independent consultants 
to update the Tongo resource statement and the report is 
expected before the end of the year.
The year has been a both exciting and productive one for Stellar. We were able to not only secure a joint 
venture on a high value kimberlite pipe in Guinea but also bring it into trial mine production within six 
months.  First reported results from Baoulé were excellent and exceeded expectations. Furthermore, the 
results generated from the bulk sampling element of the Tongo feasibility study returned significantly 
higher grades than previously established and with the continued excellent diamond quality.  This no 
doubt points to a larger resource and higher value proposition for Tongo.
  STELLAR DIAMONDS PLC       9
KARL SMITHSON
Chief Executive Officer
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Kono licence issue is unfortunately on-going though 
I remain optimistic for a favourable outcome.  We have 
followed a diplomatic approach to resolving the wrongful 
expropriation of our licence and I believe this is making 
solid progress. I believe the Government of Sierra Leone 
will want to do all it can to attract serious and long term 
investment into the country, particularly as its economy will 
suffer a big set back from the wide reaching consequences 
of Ebola.
With two high value projects such as Baoulé and Tongo that 
can provide a combination of cash flow, growing resources 
and long life of mine potential, Stellar is on a very sound 
footing to generate significant shareholder value. However, 
we are tempered with challenges such as the Ebola 
outbreak in West Africa, difficult financial markets and the 
perceived wider regional political risk. Cumulatively these 
effects act as a drag on the Stellar share price even though 
our progress of de-risking the assets and adding value at the 
project level is undisputed.
I do not see these challenges as insurmountable though.  
We have been present in the West African region for 14 
years and have seen significant change for the better in 
that time. We know how to operate in the region and have 
done it successfully often in the most adverse of conditions.  
Ebola will be defeated and the economies will recover with 
the help and support of the private sector and particularly 
those companies in the mining space.  
The diamond sector is arguably the best in the commodity 
space right now and has a superior outlook on the supply-
demand fundamentals which will ensure that the on-going 
price appreciation continues for the longer term.  The 
growth in wealth and the middle classes in China and India 
are driving rough and polished diamond demand and this is 
largely supported by the largest diamond consumer in the 
world, the USA, where diamond demand is directly linked 
to GDP growth.  New mines coming on stream will not fill 
the gap in demand and the long lead times into developing 
a diamond mine mean that supply will remain constrained.
Stellar’s continued development would not be possible 
without the support of our shareholders, and for that I am 
very grateful.  During the financial year we successfully 
raised and invested US$6 million on our growth projects 
in very challenging market conditions.  We are now in a 
position where Baoulé should be self-sustaining during the 
trial mining period, which is a major achievement.
Finally I would like to acknowledge and thank each and 
every one of our staff.  Led with great determination to 
succeed by Chief Operating Officer Rowan Carr, our team 
have delivered on their operational objectives time after 
time and this is to be commended considering the severe 
challenges faced this past year.  With such spirit we can only 
succeed in the future.
CEO’S 
STATEMENT (CONT)
