 6       ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
Baoulé Project
Stellar entered into a Joint Venture (‘JV’) with Société 
Tassiliman in December 2013 to acquire 75% of the Baoulé 
diamondiferous kimberlite pipe in the world famous Aredor 
diamond district of Guinea. The Aredor area is renowned 
for the production of large gem quality diamonds over 
many years, including numerous stones over 100 and 200 
carats in size. These diamonds are all from alluvial sources 
and we believe that Baoulé may be one of the primary hard 
rock kimberlite sources for alluvial diamonds mined in the 
area.
We believe this deal could be transformational for Stellar, as 
it gives us exposure to a likely multi-million carat resource 
with substantially higher diamond values than previously 
modelled. Over the past six months we have moved very 
quickly and commenced trial mining at Baoulé with the 
objective of not only creating near term cash flow, but also 
generating a sufficiently large diamond resource to justify 
a full scale commercial mining operation. 
With mining and processing plant and equipment already 
in-country at our Mandala and Droujba projects, which 
are currently on care and maintenance, we were able to 
relocate and reassemble two plants to construct a single 
100tph integrated kimberlite processing plant at Baoulé, 
without incurring additional capital expenditure. 
Stripping and mining of the kimberlite pipe commenced 
whilst the plant was assembled and commissioned in 
September and October this year. First results have been 
announced, whereby 196 carats were recovered at an 
average grade of 17 carats per hundred tonne (‘cpht’). This 
has exceeded our minimum grade expectations of 13cpht. 
Excitingly, large diamonds, including gems of 5.5 carats 
and 5.1 carats (octahedrons), have been recovered with 
57% of the stones being classified as gem diamonds and 
43% industrial or near-gem, which is highly encouraging at 
this early stage of trial mining. 
OVERVIW
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder,
 
Tremendous progress has been made during the period 
in developing our flagship projects in Guinea and Sierra 
Leone, in line with our strategy to become a significant 
diamond producer focused on the prolific diamond region 
of West Africa. Importantly we have recently commenced 
trial mining at our Baoulé kimberlite pipe project in Guinea 
which is expected to generate first cash flows this year 
and then on a regular basis throughout 2015. We continue 
to advance our kimberlite dyke project at Tongo through 
the feasibility stage and together with on-going resource 
building at Baoulé, including the established resource of 
the Company’s other projects, we are targeting a future 
aggregate resource base for the Company of 7.5 million 
carats which we estimate would have an in-situ value of 
US$1 billion. 
Our objective is to process at least 100,000 tonnes for 
diamond grade and value estimation over the coming 
months which we expect will yield around 2,000 carats 
per month when optimum processing capacity is achieved. 
Subject to these target amounts being achieved, we expect 
to conduct a diamond export and sale every two months 
with our first export being in late 2014.
Tongo Project
We recently completed a second bulk sampling programme 
at our Tongo Dyke-1 Project in Sierra Leone as part of the 
on-going Definitive Feasibility Study.
This dyke has a current inferred JORC resource of 1.1 million 
carats at a high grade of 120cpht and diamond value of 
US$248 per carat, which makes it one of the highest dollar 
per tonne kimberlites worldwide.
In total 1,182 carats have been recovered from the latest 
bulk sampling programme at an average grade of 183cpht, 
which is 53% higher than the 120cpht applied in the current 
resource estimate following the re-processing of the tailing 
material. This diamond parcel has been exported to Antwerp 
and is currently undergoing valuation and modelling, with 
results expected in late 2014. We are delighted with the 
outstanding quality of the diamonds recovered, with a large 
proportion of diamonds being classified as gem quality, 
several of which are +1 carat in size including a 6.7 carat 
stone. 
Although Tongo potentially provides us with a low-capex, 
high grade and high margin diamond project, with a long life 
of mine that can be extended on addition of the remaining 
dykes, underground mining can be challenging and entail 
lengthy development processes before significant cash 
flows are realised. In order to address this challenge we 
appointed independent consultants to assess various 
mining options from surface. A number of viable options 
have been evaluated to generate cash flow in conjunction 
with the on-going underground mine construction. We 
are currently re-calculating the financial model and are 
anticipating an increase in the current NPV10 of US$53 
million, in line with the resource/grade upgrade and 
surface/underground mine plan. 
We intend to continue the feasibility study during 2015 
through the required resource drilling and consulting 
studies and estimate that this could be completed in mid-
2015 should the required funding be secured. STELLAR DIAMONDS PLC       7
LORD DARESBURY
Non-Executive Chairman
12th November 2014
BUSINESS REVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT (CONT)
Other Projects
Our two additional projects in Guinea are currently under 
care and maintenance whilst we focus on delivering value at 
Baoulé and Tongo. In 2013 we reported a resource increase to 
3.1 million carats at our Droujba kimberlite pipe project and an 
economic scoping study has also been completed. Diamond 
grades at this project range from 88cpht in the Droujba pipe 
and 140cpht in the Katcha dyke. Our alluvial mining licence 
at Mandala has been renewed for five years where previous 
mining by the Company has yielded 128,000 carats at a grade 
of 33cpht, with gems of up to 37 carats. It is estimated (non 
JORC) that 200,000 carats remain within the resource. 
Our Kono licences in Sierra Leone are still in dispute with the 
Ministry of Mines. However we continue to pursue diplomatic 
remedies to have the licences reinstated. Underground trial 
mining completed by Stellar on the two primary kimberlite 
dykes at Kono yielded over 4,000 carats of high quality 
diamonds, and the return of these licences to Stellar would 
obviously return significant value to our portfolio.
Diamond Market
We believe we are mining the right commodity at the right 
time. The outlook for the rough diamond market remains 
robust. Due to the on-going recovery of the US economy and 
growing Chinese and Far East demand, rough-diamond prices 
have doubled in the past five years, jumping around 10% in 2014 
alone. With a shortage of new diamond mines worldwide and 
a general long term production decline forecast, the Directors 
believe Stellar will be ideally positioned as an emerging diamond 
producer to benefit from the continued forecast increase in 
rough diamond prices as demand continues to outstrip supply. 
Funding
During the period we have successfully raised £4m (US$6.5m) 
through a combination of placings, share subscriptions and 
exercising warrants through Directors, institutions, existing and 
new shareholders. Additionally Stellar Directors have shown 
their commitment to the Company with a number of Director 
deals during the period and fees being paid in equity. These 
cumulative funds were allocated to advancing the two key 
projects at Baoulé and Tongo. 
Whilst capital markets remain challenging for junior resource 
companies we believe that Stellar should continue to attract 
investor interest as we continue trial mining at Baoulé to 
generate cash flow and also deliver what we expect to be a 
positive feasibility study at Tongo. 
Ebola
Being focused on West Africa, Ebola has obviously been a 
considerable concern for Stellar since the outbreak and we 
have partnered with International SOS in Guinea with regards 
to a response plan. Education and awareness is the key in 
managing this situation and Stellar has been at the forefront of 
elevating the threat of Ebola and its prevention amongst the 
workforce and the surrounding local communities and civic 
leaders. Increased levels of sanitation and health screening 
have been established at the Baoulé camp and project sites 
and have been rolled out to the homes of the Company’s 
employees. Restrictions on staff travel are also implemented 
and a total ban on travel to the epicenters of the Ebola virus 
in Guinea is in place. We are continuing to monitor the 
situation very closely to ensure the continued well-being of 
all employees and that of the local communities.
Outlook
We believe that our focus on trial mining at Baoulé and 
delivering a feasibility study at Tongo will continue to 
generate value for our shareholders. Our near term objective 
is to become a significant diamond producer in the West 
African region at a time when the outlook for rough diamond 
prices and the general sentiment to the diamond sector is 
positive. Furthermore, Baoulé with its near term cash-flow 
generation and large stone potential and Tongo with its high 
grade and high value diamonds and flexible mining options 
offer a compelling investment case. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our supportive 
shareholder base for the continued support and additionally, 
our highly competent team, both at the Board and 
management level and on the ground. Their remarkable efforts 
over the period have enabled us to deliver on milestones and 
create significant value as we come closer to our objective of 
becoming a leading diamond producer.  
