 I am delighted to present Abcam’s first 
annual report as a public company. 
We enjoyed an exciting and prosperous financial year in 
2005/06, and I am equally positive about the opportunities and 
prospects that lie ahead. 
Abcam provides antibody reagents that scientists use to identify 
proteins. Research into the roles and effects of proteins has 
grown significantly in recent years, particularly since the human 
genome project was completed. Estimates of the number and 
diversity of proteins that have important implications for health 
and disease continue to increase, and in the future we are likely 
to witness many more groundbreaking discoveries. As the 
world’s largest online antibody resource, Abcam is well placed 
to develop and supply the tools that allow such discoveries to be 
made and to contribute to mankind’s progress in understanding 
health and disease.
I am especially pleased by the contributions made by Abcam’s 
hard-working and loyal employees to the Group’s continuing 
success post flotation. Abcam is fortunate to have a first-class 
management team and dedicated staff who all work together to 
deliver the best-quality antibody reagents to our customers.
Abcam’s culture enables it to quickly recognise changes in the 
marketplace and create opportunities for the Company. I am 
proud of Abcam’s track record in identifying new products and 
Chairman’s Statement
techniques and I continue to be impressed by our team’s ability 
to innovate and expand in this exciting market.
Abcam’s goal is to deliver the best antibodies to our customers 
and to become the world’s largest research antibody supplier. 
Abcam is increasingly regarded in the industry as an attractive 
partner by smaller companies that lack our geographical and 
market penetration, and we continue to interest a growing 
number of companies that do not focus primarily on research 
antibodies. As a consequence we have established 
partnerships and supplier agreements with many of the world’s 
best sources of antibodies. With our reputation for flexibility and 
trustworthiness among suppliers, we have recently been able to 
close a number of such deals, including the recently announced 
acquisition of the rights to distribute exclusively the range of 
antibodies developed by Triple Point Biologics Inc. We will 
continue to develop our relationships with other suppliers of 
antibodies, and to look for opportunities to acquire product lines 
that we can sell either exclusively or non-exclusively.
We also provide new and unique products of the highest quality 
in the form of our own antibodies. Currently, these products 
represent a small fraction of our catalogue, but they generate 
disproportionately high revenue and profits. We have been 
building resources and developing expertise in the identification 
and production of antibodies, and we are now looking to increase 
investment in our own manufacturing capability. We are currently 
investigating the most effective way of achieving this. 
 Open for business
998
First (of many) award(s)
99
Deloittes Top 50 regional winner
FedEx tie-up boosts customer support 
02
25th employee hired
First overseas office established
British royalty visits Abcam
03
UK Online for Business
Technical Director appointed
0 New premises on the Cambridge Science Park
Finance Director appointed
0th employee hired
00
 4 Abcam Annual	report	and	accounts	30	June	2006
Job:	 7475_abcam_AR_AW_FT.indd	 Proof:	 04	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rob	 Date:	 08/09/06	
Server:	 Studio	I	 Set-up:	 paul	o	 First	Read/Revisions Outlook
I am optimistic about Abcam’s future: it has great potential  
to continue to expand in the medium to longer term. The 
Group’s management is very focused on profitable growth and  
I believe that they have put in place the operational processes, 
product acquisition and marketing and sales strategies to 
enable this to happen.
Corporate governance
The Board intends to follow best practice wherever practical.  
As a major step in this direction, I am pleased to welcome Tim 
Dye and Mark Webster to the Board as non-executive directors 
from 1 July 2006. 
Tim Dye is currently Chairman and Chief Executive of William 
Ransom & Son plc, a healthcare company quoted on AiM. He 
brings to the Board a wealth of experience in mergers and 
acquisitions and in growing a successful company. 
Mark Webster is a highly experienced pharmaceutical 
executive. His skills and experience in sales and marketing will 
be of enormous benefit to Abcam in the future.
Including Peter Keen, the addition of Tim Dye and Mark 
Webster brings the number of independent non-executive 
directors to three, each of whom contributes valuable and 
complementary skills and experience to the Board. 
Dividend
A dividend of 3.25p was paid during the year prior to the listing 
on AiM. In accordance with the Directors’ stated intention 
following the floatation of paying dividends from each year’s 
profits equal to 25% of that year’s profit after tax, an interim 
dividend of 0.7p for this year was paid in April 2006. The 
Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.0p per share, making 
a total of 2.7p since floatation, which equates to paying 25% of 
the profit after tax for the year ended 30 June 2006. Subject to 
shareholder approval at the annual general meeting in October, 
all shareholders on the register on 27 October 2006 will receive 
this dividend on 24 November 2006.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our staff for their 
efforts, and our customers, suppliers and shareholders for their 
support for Abcam.
David Cleevely
Chairman
4 September 2006
2006
Winner of Best Newcomer UK techMARK mediscience awards
Winner of Private Company of the Year, East of England Business Awards
20,000+ products, ,300 new lysates, Abpromise stats, Abupdate and news
50th employee hired
th in Deloittes Technology 500
04
£5.25 million share placing
Queen’s Award at first attempt
US office on the move
05
	 Annual	report	and	accounts	30	June	2006	 Abcam  5
