  2 Abcam Annual	report	and	accounts	30	June	2006
Job:	 7475_abcam_AR_AW_FT.indd	 Proof:	 04	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rob	 Date:	 08/09/06	
Server:	 Studio	I	 Set-up:	 paul	o	 First	Read/Revisions
Our Business at a Glance
1
We make our own antibodies and source other excellent 
antibodies from institutes, academic laboratories and 
primary manufacturers.
Abcam is on a mission to build the largest online catalogue of 
the best antibodies in the world and our scientists are 
dedicated to achieving this.
We make our own antibodies and source other excellent 
antibodies from institutes, academic laboratories, primary 
manufacturers and other suppliers.
We provide technical support on all of our products to enable 
our customers to achieve the result they should expect.
We source and develop
Our scientists have built a catalogue of the best 
antibodies in the world and provide technical support on 
all of our products to enable our customers to achieve the 
result they expect.
Abcam focuses on presenting test data. Our datasheets 
differentiate between:
successfully tested;
unsuccessfully tested; and
not tested.
Datasheets display the applications and species. Each antibody 
is successfully tested in at least one common application prior to 
release, by either ourselves or our source. Further testing data is 
predominantly obtained from our collaborators and customers.
•
•
•
We add value
2
The idea for Abcam came early in  998 out of a laboratory in the 
University of Cambridge, UK. The principal founder, Jonathan Milner, 
was working as a post-doctoral researcher studying the newly 
discovered breast cancer protein BRCA2 in Professor Tony Kouzarides’ 
laboratory. The project slowed because of problems finding quality 
antibody reagents that had honest and up-to-date information about 
their uses and limitations. It was frustrating.  	 Annual	report	and	accounts	30	June	2006	 Abcam  3
3
Our systems enable us to process orders quickly and 
accurately and we ship to any country in the world by 
express courier delivery. We keep our customers informed 
at every stage, so that they can plan their experiments.
As the Company grows, it is important that the systems and 
processes are able to take advantage of economies of scale, 
and we keep this constantly under review. In particular, at the 
moment we are progressing with our investment in robotic 
storage and handling facilities. These new facilities will enable 
us to store, pick and pack stock more efficiently than the present 
systems, and will allow us to expand output without a corresponding 
growth in staff and expensive conventional refrigeration.
We deliver
4
We provide technical help and information about immune 
response, structure and activities of antibodies, 
production, purification and applications.
Our Abpromise gives our customers the reassurance of 
knowing that:
Our antibodies are amongst the best in the world.
Our unique Abreviews
SM
 system provides contact with other 
customers for the same antibody.
Our customers are able to contact our expert technical team 
to ask for their advice.
•
•
•
We support
Global presence
Our office in Boston has made  
a significant contribution to sales  
and profit over the past two years.
The opening of our Japanese office  
will now give us a foothold in the third 
largest antibody research market  
in the world.
