 Jonathan Milner answers some of the most 
frequently asked questions, by investors, 
from the past year. 
 . Why do you think antibodies are such an exciting  
market opportunity?
Research antibodies are fundamental to studying proteins at a 
cellular level and proteins are the fundamental components of 
life. Therefore, in order to understand the differences between 
health and disease, the specific functions of proteins need to be 
elucidated and the only way that this can be achieved is by 
using specific antibodies to home in and image the protein. The 
recent sequencing of the human genome has identified tens of 
thousands of new potential proteins and the research world is 
moving from genomics (the study of genomes and genes) to 
proteomics (the study of proteins and how they interact). Since 
the turn of the millennium the market for research antibodies 
has increased at between 10% and 20% per annum.
All of this put together means that there has never been so 
much excitement, opportunity and optimism as there is currently 
surrounding antibodies. 
2. Can you give me an example of how one of your 
customers may use an antibody?
Our customers are typically bioscientists working in academia 
or industry who want to answer fundamental questions about 
how their protein of interest functions at a cellular level. An 
example out of thousands would be, for instance, a cancer 
research group from the Abramson Family Research Institute  
at the University of Pennsylvania in the USA, who have recently 
published a scientific paper which sheds light on how specific 
proteins are disrupted in B cell lymphomas, and this research 
utilised and was enabled by antibodies purchased from Abcam.
3. How many antibody products are there?
There are currently tens of thousands of antibodies. Abcam  
has over 23,000 antibodies to over 6,000 proteins in its online 
catalogue, making it the largest online antibody resource in the 
world. The human genome project alone has revealed possibly 
20,000 to 25,000 genes and each gene potentially encodes  
at least one or possibly more proteins, each having a number  
of flavours and modifications, taking the number of potential 
antibodies that will be required in the future into the hundreds  
of thousands and making this an extremely exciting market.
Questions and Answers
 8 Abcam Annual	report	and	accounts	30	June	2006
Job:	 7475_abcam_AR_AW_FT.indd	 Proof:	 04	 Proof Read by:
Operator:	Rob	 Date:	 08/09/06	
Server:	 Studio	I	 Set-up:	 paul	o	 First	Read/Revisions 4. Does Abcam make all its own products?
No, it is an important part of Abcam’s strategy to be able to offer 
our customers the best antibodies in the world regardless of 
their source. Practically, this means we source our products 
from trusted suppliers and from academic institutes as well as 
from our own laboratories. If we do not think a product is up to 
scratch, whether it is our own or from one of our suppliers, we 
will unpublish it. Using this strategy Abcam has succeeded in 
having a unique product offering of exceptional value to the 
customer who is assured that they are purchasing the best 
possible product.
5. What percentage of your revenues are your  
own products?
Currently it is around 13% of our revenues and we plan to 
increase this as our own production is ramped up.
6. Are there other companies doing the same as Abcam?
There are many other companies that sell antibodies but none 
as far as we can tell that has the same unique product offering. 
We have the largest online catalogue in the industry coupled 
with the most detailed datasheets and fast delivery of the best 
in the world antibodies. We do not rest on our laurels however 
and are aware that the market for antibodies does not stand still 
so we need to keep improving and modifying our product 
offering to match.
7. Are you a biotech company or a distributor?
Neither and both. Abcam’s unique product offering and 
business model means that the Company does not fit neatly  
into any one box. We manufacture our own products and we 
distribute and we are at the cutting edge of bioscience and 
biomedical research. 
8. What are the biggest opportunities for growth and what 
are the risks?
In the research reagent market the opportunities and risks are 
two sides of the same coin. If a company can offer a large 
catalogue of high quality research antibodies coupled with 
detailed information on each product it will succeed and win in 
this exciting market. Other risks are operational and regulatory 
in nature such as business interruption or changes in the import 
regulations for biomedical products.
Our new robotic system will 
enable us to store, pick and pack 
stock more efficiently and allow 
us to expand output without a 
corresponding growth in staff  
and expenditure.
	 Annual	report	and	accounts	30	June	2006	 Abcam  9
