 Page 6 Sterling Energy plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s Review
Adapting our Strategy
The last year or so has been the most volatile and difficult 
period in my considerable time in the oil industry, but I believe 
there are many reasons to be optimistic about the future, not 
least Sterling’s interests in potentially “company making” assets 
such as Kurdistan, Cameroon and Madagascar, of which I will 
say more later. 
The falls in energy prices from their high points in July to the 
December 2008 closing prices – gas down 58% and oil down 
75% – have had a well documented impact on the industry and 
the companies operating within it. The impact on Sterling has 
been no less marked.
In common with our peers, we are making adjustments to our 
business structure and strategy aimed at ensuring a sustainable 
future with good near-term upside potential. 
Energy prices have tumbled –  
costs are lagging
Although we are now getting lower revenue from our 
production, we did take out hedges prudently for 2009 of 
around 75% of our proved developed estimated sales volumes 
at prices well ahead of current ones. Operating costs, which 
followed energy prices and the consequent increase in industry 
activity to high levels, have not generally fallen; indeed items like 
insurance have increased. However, there are signs that capital 
costs are now starting to reduce with costs such as rig rates, 
steel and services all reacting to the industry’s inability to 
sustain previous cost levels.
Reducing our debt gap is the  
current priority
Since the start of 2008, Sterling has repaid $41.4 million (27%) 
of its debt, which now stands at some $112.2 million. A bank 
Jan 08
Feb 08
Mar 08
Apr 08
May 08
Jun 08
Jul 08
Aug 08
Sep 08
Oct 08
Nov 08
Dec 08
Jan 09
Feb 09
Mar 09
Apr 09
May 09
0
US$
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Natural Gas-Henry Hub $/mcf
Crude Oil-Brent $/bbl Natural Gas-Henry HUB $/mcf
Jan 08
Feb 08
Mar 08
Apr 08
May 08
Jun 08
Jul 08
Aug 08
Sep 08
Oct 08
Nov 08
Dec 08
Jan 09
Feb 09
Mar 09
Apr 09
May 09
0
US$
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
Crude Oil-Brent UK $/bbl
waiver has also been agreed and is in place until mid-August 
2009. We continue to work very hard to reduce the outstanding 
debt and to eliminate the debt gap which currently stands at 
$25.3 million. The debt gap is the amount of actual debt in 
excess of the syndicated loans Borrowing Base as reassessed 
under the reserve based lending facility assumptions every six 
months. The debt gap is also the amount of debt repayment 
temporarily deferred by our lending banks as a result of  
the waiver.
The sale of our USA assets has not yet been achieved. This is 
due primarily to the fall in energy prices and the crisis in the 
banking sector, which has meant that the conditional buyer we 
had announced in September 2008 could not complete the 
transaction. The market place for USA deals has virtually 
ceased to operate since then, but we continue to seek a buyer 
for part or all of these assets.
In parallel, we are also seeking a debt solution that will enable 
the Group to resume its expansion. This could include an 
injection of capital and people, of assets or a combination, or 
indeed a full takeover. Shareholders can be assured that senior 
management is fully committed to securing a resolution to this 
issue, in the interests of all stakeholders, as soon as possible. 
Great upside in the exploration and 
drilling portfolio
In 2008 we achieved two important farm outs, on the Iris well 
offshore Gabon and on our highly promising licence onshore in 
Kurdistan, which are described in more detail elsewhere. 
Our policy is almost always to farm out international wells and 
minimise our net costs, including drilling. Whilst the Gabon well  
in July 2008 was dry, it was drilled at no cost to us. Our bank 
waiver sets clear limitations on our international costs, but our 
policy on existing assets remains as it was last year – to farm out.  Page 7 Sterling Energy plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Overview
Our first well in Kurdistan is expected to commence drilling in the 
fourth quarter of 2009. When we farmed out this asset in 
September 2008, we got back our past costs (which helped with 
debt repayments) and we will also benefit from a carry on costs 
of drilling the first well until we reach the point of testing. We 
retained a 53.33% interest (40% fully diluted, if the government 
backs in) and operatorship. Recent interpretation work on the 
seismic acquired in late 2008 has led us to increase our 
expectations of the size of the prospect and to lower our 
assessment of the associated risks. There has been successful 
drilling in Kurdistan recently which, according to the Kurdistan oil 
minister, has added 4–5 billion boe in reserves – which would 
indicate a truly a world class oil region in the making.
 
In Madagascar, we now expect drilling in 2010, the delay being 
due to the recent local political changes following a period of 
unrest. Our partner and operator, ExxonMobil, is focused on 
drilling a major structure on the Ampasindava block where we 
retain a 30% working interest and are partially carried. A 
participation decision is currently required by the end of July 
and we continue to seek farm-in parties to enable the Company 
to participate.
Offshore in Cameroon, we have been expediting our studies of 
the prospectivity of the Ntem block (Sterling 100%) and are very 
encouraged by the number and size of the prospects identified. 
We aim to seek farm-in parties at the appropriate time and 
understand that the border dispute may be settled soon. We 
intend to drill as soon as we can after that.
In Mauritania there is no material Phase 2 capital expenditure 
budgeted in 2009. Phase 3 is currently being evaluated and any 
work would not commence until 2010.
In the USA, the focus of our drilling is low risk wells which can 
result in short-term reclassification of reserves into proved and 
producing, whilst farming out higher risk wells. We have cut our 
“ The major challenges in a 
highly volatile time are many 
and varied, but the staff and all 
of the Directors have worked 
tirelessly for the Company”
capex programme for 2009 by 41% to no more than $27.7 
million, intending to balance cash generation with the twin aims 
of bank debt repayment and achieving commercial objectives. 
Good people in volatile times
It is hard from the outside to gauge the effort made within a 
company like ours during such a difficult time but I can tell you 
it has been huge. The major challenges in a highly volatile time 
are many and varied, but the staff and all of the Directors have 
worked tirelessly for the Company. Much has been achieved, as 
set out elsewhere in this annual report, but it has also been very 
frustrating. For example, our placing in October 2008 had given 
the Group resources to meet the then estimated debt 
repayments through to at least early 2010. The falls in energy 
prices since then have meant that the re-assessed bank debt 
Borrowing Base is lowered and we are dealing with the results. 
Volatile times require fortitude, boldness and no little luck. I am 
grateful to all stakeholders, staff, banks, shareholders, suppliers 
and others for their support and I trust, in time, that support will 
yield its rewards.
2009 is a year of challenge and we are focused on achieving 
our stated objectives, to resolve the debt issue and get Sterling 
back on a growth path.
 
Graeme Thomson
Chief Executive Officer
29 May 2009
$41.4million
 
–27%
debt repaid since 1 January 2008
