 8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STERLING ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
Our industry is undergoing a period of enormous change
and we are adapting our business model to continue the
success we have so far delivered. Against this backdrop,
the start of production in Mauritania in February 2006
transforms our cash flow, enabling Sterling to be bolder 
in the implementation of its growth strategy.
CHANGING INDUSTRY BACKGROUND
The key causes of this changing, volatile
environment are the sustained “high” oil price,
which many commentators are predicting will stay
above $50/bbl over the next 3 – 5 years. There is 
a recognition that the supply of oil and gas is
struggling to keep up with demand and that this
supply may be subject to unforeseen interruptions.
The energy sector has moved quickly to adjust to
changes in these fundamental forces. The key 
issues we now have to contend with include:
• A “land grab” is underway: in addition to the
major oil companies (who need to meet reserve
and production replacement targets), we now have
to contend with national oil companies strategically
positioning themselves to guarantee future
supplies. Competition for prospective acreage 
is intense.
• It is not just the oil price which has risen 
sharply. From the commercial terms granted 
by governments for licences, through rig rates 
and seismic costs to insurance premiums, the 
prices for everything in our industry have gone up. 
Availability of equipment has plummeted with, 
for example, the lead times on new rig contracts 
in West Africa currently running at over a year.
• The economics of exploration projects have
improved, which translate into both higher risk
targets and smaller prospects being drilled. 
Buyers, often with “cheap money”, have also
lowered the economic return criteria they apply to
acquisitions, such that many prices being paid for
reserves are, in our view, only supported by even
greater optimism about the future of energy prices.
• Investors have joined the “black-gold rush”. 
Since we joined AIM in October 2002, our peer
group in London has risen from about 10 to over
100 oil and gas companies and this rate of growth
looks set to continue during 2006. Readily available
funds have chased a declining number of good
opportunities and inevitably pushed prices up.
Availability of experienced people has also become
an issue as each of the new companies have
established their teams. 9
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STERLING ENERGY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
This all sets the scene for a highly competitive and
expensive market place where sellers are calling 
the tune. Although we are in the fortunate position 
of having acquired many of our assets before these
changes really started to bite and have benefited
from the inevitable rise in value, we are adapting 
our model to continue this growth going forward. 
STEP-CHANGE
Our overall aim is to continue to build our cash flow,
profitability and have exciting exploration upside,
focused on increasing value per share.  
In our model to date:
• Production has offered a steady rate of return
which, with low risk infill and step-out drilling,
provided a platform from which to undertake
exploration. Our production assets would not
normally be expected to double the value of the
Company in the short term – although the recent
rise in oil and gas prices has significantly increased
their value – but they do provide solid cash 
flow which we have sought to leverage into 
other opportunities.
• Exploration offers the big upside. A key objective
has been to manage the risks and costs of drilling,
which we know statistically is more likely to fail
than succeed. Using our technical and commercial
expertise, we have been very successful in passing
on exploration costs while retaining significant
upside to drilling outcomes. The key is to have 
a string of material targets ready to drill in the 
near future. We have not committed to any
individual exploration project which could
materially damage the balance sheet: instead, 
we have put in place a sustainable exploration
programme which has been supported by our
growing production cash flow.
Our response to both the new industry environment
and Sterling’s own financial resources, is to try and
side-step the crowd and look for value in less
obvious opportunities. Buying conventional
production at present levels is in our view unlikely to
meet our criteria, whereas, for example, our creative
financing of the Mauritanian Government’s
participation in the Chinguetti field unlocked
substantial value for both sides, which could
otherwise have been lost. The recent signing by
Sterling of an MOU in the Kurdistan region is
another example of such opportunities.
Sterling’s hallmark to date has been innovative
transactions, playing to our strengths of experience,
creativity, flexibility and speed. Under-pinning this
model is the quality of the people within the
Company; they are our most essential resource.
The tremendous activity in the oil & gas sector
makes it increasingly difficult to stand out from 
our peers. We are already starting to see signs 
of investor fatigue and the first soundings of 
sector consolidation. In the past, successful oil
companies were taken over by larger companies
once their assets reached critical mass and we
expect history to repeat itself over the 
next few years. 
The performance of the Company is the only 
true measure of the success of the strategy. 
Our track record since listing on AIM in late 2002 
is a vindication of the model implemented by 
our team. Our vision is to remain in the top 
10% of our peer group in terms of value added 
and perceived upside potential. 
STRONGLY POSITIONED
We are very well positioned and optimistic for
Sterling’s continued development. We will not
overpay for assets as our focus is on creating
shareholder value. The cash flow from Chinguetti
and from the USA puts Sterling in a very strong
position to effect a step-change in its activities 
and to leverage itself into new opportunities 
in this fast-changing environment. 
Harry Wilson 
Chief Executive Officer 
21 April 2006
