 SThree plc 3
In my fifth, and sadly final, Annual 
Report as Chairman, I am very pleased 
to say that, given the economic 
uncertainty which continued 
throughout 2009, the Group was able 
to achieve a very good set of results, 
building on the strengths of our 
strategy, business model and market 
position. This meant that, despite 
challenging market conditions, we 
were able to find areas of growth in 
order to benefit our stakeholders. 
In this respect I would like to take 
the opportunity to thank all those 
shareholders who have stuck with the 
Company through these more recent 
difficult times, many of whom are 
employees.
While our primary business focus 
in the year was to consolidate, we 
have also pursued niche growth 
opportunities wherever possible. This 
has naturally led to an even more 
diversified business, both in terms 
of geographic and sector spread, 
which will enable us to optimise our 
performance as the market improves. 
In fact, our non-UK gross profit now 
represents 55% of the Group’s gross 
profit (2008: 45%).
As a result of the continued global 
uncertainty, revenue for the year 
decreased by 17.8% to £519.4m (2008: 
£631.5m), while gross profit (‘net fee 
income’) for the year decreased by 
21.8% to £171.2m (2008: £218.9m). 
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
amounted to £18.0m (2008: £56.0m), 
a reduction of 67.9%, although this 
was in line with both the Board’s 
and market expectations, once again 
reflecting the resilience and quality 
within the Group’s management 
teams at all levels. This result was 
particularly commendable, given 
the reduction in headcount and 
restructuring of brands which took 
place in the year.
Our net cash balance at the year-
end, including term investments, 
stood at £48.5m (2008: £24.6m), 
while we also further reduced our 
average days’ sales outstanding from 
43 days in 2008 to 37 days in 2009. 
Along with our improved Enterprise 
Risk Management (‘ERM’) processes, 
which we continue to roll out across 
our business, these are measures 
which clearly demonstrate our solid 
stewardship and which position the 
Group exceptionally well as we begin 
to see some very early signs of growth 
in certain markets and sectors.
Our tried and tested strategy 
remains primarily to focus on 
pursuing organic growth, through 
continued development of the 
Group’s well-established Information, 
Communication and T echnology 
(‘ICT’) staffing business, while also 
increasing the Group’s revenues from 
other sectors and countries. Our 
business model continues to prioritise 
high quality over high volume and 
seeks to optimise the superior 
margins we consistently achieve as 
a consequence of this approach. The 
multi-brand strategy we operate and 
our highly diversified client base will, 
as ever, be crucial in achieving this 
goal and we believe that all SThree 
businesses have scope for significant 
further growth. 
As always, we remain open-minded 
with regard to the launch of new 
ventures, continuing to back our own 
entrepreneurial talent and utilise the 
established minority-stakes model 
where appropriate, in order to expand 
beyond our existing bases in the UK, 
continental Europe, USA, Asia-Pacific 
and the Middle East, as we move into 
2010 and beyond.
Like 2009, 2010 will be an extremely 
challenging year as we invest 
in our business in order to take 
full advantage of any economic 
improvements, when they occur. 
Nevertheless we take confidence 
from the Group’s long track record 
of success to date and look forward 
to seeing the achievements of this 
year acting as a platform for further 
progress as we move forward.
The Board has declared a second 
interim dividend of 8.0p per share in 
place of the final dividend, bringing 
the total dividend for the year to 12.0p 
per share (2008: 12.0p). The second 
interim dividend will be paid on 31 
March 2010 to those shareholders on 
the register as at 26 February 2010. 
This follows the interim dividend of 
4.0p (2008: 4.0p) per share declared 
earlier in the year and paid on 4 
December 2009. A detailed review 
of our trading and results is provided 
within the Chief Executive Officer’s 
and Chief Financial Officer’s Reviews. 
During the year, we have also 
continued to improve our reporting 
on Remuneration, Governance and 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
(‘CSR’) issues, wherever we can, to 
accommodate best practice and 
investor requirements. In particular, 
our CSR Report illustrates how we 
have further embedded our CSR 
strategy within the business and we 
will continue to expand these areas as 
the business moves forward. 
Chairman’s Statement
Report & Accounts 2009 SThree plc 4
The SThree business is built on an 
absolute focus on delivering high 
quality and timely permanent and 
contract specialist staffing services to 
our clients. It remains therefore, first 
and foremost a people business and it 
is only as a direct result of the talent 
and dedication of our people that 
we are able to continue to post such 
resilient results. At the year end the 
Group employed a total of 1,597 people 
worldwide and, although this number 
decreased from 2,274 at the prior 
year end, we have a clear strategy to 
grow this significantly over the next 
five years, particularly outside the 
UK. I would therefore like to thank all 
our employees across the world once 
again for their contribution during the 
year. Many of them have been with 
the Group from its inception in 1986. 
Some of these individuals are featured 
in the front half of this Annual Report, 
which shows highlights from the 
Group’s 2009 annual management 
conference.
As mentioned earlier, this is sadly my 
final statement as Chairman and the 
Board is well advanced in recruiting a 
successor. It has been a great privilege 
to have chaired the Company for the 
past 10 years and to have worked with 
the Executive team and the Board 
in creating a highly successful and 
diversified international Group.
While our business will ultimately 
depend on the overall strength of the 
worldwide economy, we believe that 
our prospects for further growth and 
success remain excellent and while 
we enter the new-year with a realistic 
view of what lies ahead, we have 
great confidence in the quality of the 
business and the opportunities to be 
taken.
Sir Anthony Cleaver 
CHAIRMAN
29 January 2010
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
Report & Accounts 2009
