 SThree plc 3
In our fourth Annual Report as a 
listed Company, I am very pleased 
to say that, despite the economic 
uncertainty which continued into 
and throughout 2008, we were 
still able to build on the three prior 
years’ excellent progress and have 
refined and further strengthened our 
strategy, business model and market 
position.
Throughout this period our business 
focus has been to continue to deliver 
strong, profitable growth and this 
focus has again generated a highly  
creditable performance across our 
business. Particularly encouraging is 
that the Group is now an even more 
diversified business, both in terms of 
geographic and sector spread and we 
feel that this will not only optimise  
performance in the short-term but 
also provide an excellent platform for 
future growth.
During the year we grew revenue 
and gross profit by 20.8% and 19.8%, 
respectively. Profit before tax and 
before exceptional items grew by 
11.3% to £56.0m, profit before tax 
after exceptional items grew by 7.4% 
to £54.1m in line with the Board’s 
and market expectations, once again 
reflecting the quality within the 
Group and our management teams 
at all levels. Our net cash balances 
at the year end stood at £24.6m 
(2007: £3.5m), despite having spent 
some £31.3m on our share buy-back 
programme. We also reduced our 
average days’ sales outstanding 
from 59 days in 2007 to 43 days in 
2008. We believe these measures 
demonstrate solid stewardship and 
place the Group in an enviable position 
compared to many organisations, as 
we face the current economic climate.
As previously, our clear and effective 
strategy remains to focus on 
pursuing organic growth through 
continued development of the Group’s 
well-established UK Information, 
Communication and T echnology 
(”ICT”) staffing business, while also 
increasing the Group’s revenues from 
other sectors and countries. Our 
business model continues to prioritise 
high quality over high volume and 
seeks to optimise the superior 
margins we consistently achieve as 
a consequence of this approach. The 
multi-brand strategy we operate and 
our highly diversified client base will, 
as ever, be crucial in achieving this 
goal and we believe that all current 
SThree businesses have further scope 
for growth. 
However, as always, we remain open-
minded with regard to the launch 
of new ventures, continuing to back 
home-grown entrepreneurial talent 
and utilise the established minority-
stakes model where appropriate, in 
order to expand beyond our existing 
bases in the UK, the Netherlands, 
Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, 
USA, Hong Kong, Australia and Dubai 
and into other countries, such as 
Singapore as we move into 2009. The 
Board has now implemented a regular 
programme to visit each of its offices 
in order to meet employees, the first of 
which began with a visit to our brands 
in Amsterdam, in October 2008.
Without question 2009 will be 
an extremely challenging year. 
Nevertheless we take confidence 
from the Group’s long track record 
of success to date and look forward 
to seeing the achievements of this 
year acting as a platform for further 
progress as we move forward.
The Directors recommend a final 
dividend of 8.0p per share for the 
year ended 30 November 2008, to 
be paid on 8 June 2009, to those on 
the register as at 1 May 2009. This 
follows the interim dividend of 4.0p 
per share declared earlier in the 
year and paid in December 2008. A 
detailed review of our trading and 
results is provided within the Chief 
Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews. During the year, 
we have also expanded our reporting 
on Remuneration, Governance and 
Corporate Social Responsibility issues, 
wherever appropriate, in line with best 
practice and will continue to expand 
these further as the business moves 
forward.
The SThree business is built on an 
absolute determination to deliver high 
quality and timely permanent and 
contract specialist staffing services 
to our clients. It remains therefore, 
first and foremost a people business 
and it is only as a direct result of the 
talent and dedication of our people 
that we are able to continue to post 
such positive results. At the year end 
the Group employed a total of 2,274 
people worldwide, an increase of 11.7% 
on the prior year and with a growing 
emphasis on non-UK employees. I 
would like to thank all our employees, 
in all locations, for their contribution 
this year, and especially those who 
have been with us during the twenty 
years since the business was first 
established.
During the year we welcomed Alex 
Smith as the Group’s Chief Financial 
Officer. Alex has been instrumental 
in further strengthening the Group’s 
balance sheet and cash position, 
whilst shaping and re-aligning the 
vision of our finance and shared 
service functions.
Gary Elden joined the Board as Chief 
Development Officer in July 2008. 
Gary joined the Group in 1990 and was 
founding Managing Director of Huxley 
Chairman’s Statement
Report & Accounts 2008 SThree plc 4
Associates. His experience has been 
invaluable as we further expand the 
Group’s international operations and 
non-ICT disciplines.
T o ensure the continuing 
independence of the Board and 
also strengthen our Audit and 
Remuneration Committees, we 
appointed Nadhim Zahawi as a 
Non-Executive Director in May 2008. 
Nadhim’s international experience 
within an entrepreneurial and 
customer focussed environment is 
already benefiting the Board.
All of these Directors plus myself 
will retire and seek election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
and I look forward to your support on 
their election.
Whilst our business will ultimately 
depend on the overall strength of 
the economy, we believe our current 
position, as well as prospects for 
further growth and success remain 
good and we therefore enter the new 
year with a realistic view of what lies 
ahead but with great confidence in the 
quality of our business.
Sir Anthony Cleaver 
CHAIRMAN
30 January 2009
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
Report & Accounts 2008
