 SThree plc 6
Overview
2008 was, by any standards, an 
extraordinary year. In particular, the 
second half of the year was influenced 
by the enormous upheavals in global 
financial markets and the inevitable 
uncertainty that such events bring to 
the recruitment market place.
Given these exceptional 
circumstances, it is pleasing to be 
once again in a position to report on 
another year of growth and significant 
further progress towards the Group’s 
strategic objectives. SThree ends 
the 2008 financial year a more 
international and more diversified 
business than at any time in its 
twenty-two year history.
Indeed, the exceptional progress we 
made in our ongoing roll out of the 
SThree model into newer geographies 
and staffing segments was the 
highlight of the year under review. 
The continued success of this well-
established programme means that as 
of the year end, the Group generated 
59% of gross profit outside of the UK 
ICT market, our longest established 
franchise.
Given the robustness of our 
international business and our 
increasing success in growing our 
newer staffing segments, we are 
confident that this trend is set to 
continue. As time goes on the Group’s 
exposure to the UK as a whole will 
inevitably decline as a percentage 
of the whole as we establish an ever 
more global platform. That said, 
we remain convinced that once an 
economic recovery is established, 
even given its relatively mature 
nature, the UK will once again 
represent both a substantial and 
growing marketplace for the Group.
Given the events of the year, 
geographic and segmental 
distinctions were even more 
important than usual in determining 
the scale of opportunities available 
to the Group. In line with this we 
were able to continue to invest 
substantially in the development of 
some teams, whereas in other areas 
we were content to see consultant 
numbers decline in line with reduced 
demand.
The overall impact was an increase 
in consultant headcount of 
approximately 18.6% – relatively 
modest growth by the standards of 
recent years (2007: c. 42.3%) The 
Non UK/Non ICT teams grew by a 
robust 42% on average whilst the UK 
ICT headcount reduced over the year 
by 24%. In the latter case we once 
again benefited from our unusually 
flexible workforce. Our lower fixed to 
variable remuneration and relatively 
young consultant demographic meant 
that right sizing was achieved almost 
exclusively through natural attrition.
That said, even in the worst affected 
parts of the market, the Group was 
able to keep its discipline in terms 
of the quality of the business it 
transacted and typically either 
preserved or improved margins. The 
result of this was that across almost 
all markets and geographies we saw 
an overall improvement in average 
permanent recruitment fees and 
average contract gross profit per 
day rates. As a consequence we are 
pleased to be able to report that both 
of these metrics reached record levels 
once again.
We see our strength in both 
permanent and contract recruitment 
as a significant competitive 
advantage, since the relative 
resilience of contract demand helps 
to mitigate the natural decline in 
permanent hires in more challenging 
markets. Given the current tough 
market conditions in the UK in 
particular, we take confidence from 
the fact that the majority of our 
business in this geography is derived 
from the contract marketplace.
During 2008 the Group placed a great 
deal of emphasis on the importance 
of cash management. It is pleasing 
to note that the Group’s performance 
in this area was exemplary. Our 
Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) figure 
reduced to a record 43 days (2007: 59) 
with a meaningful improvement in the 
quality of the aged debtors. Alongside 
strong, profitable trading this helped 
the Group fund over £31m of share 
buy-backs, a substantially increased 
dividend and a growing contractor 
book. Despite these significant cash 
out flows the Group ended 2008 with 
net cash of £24.6m (2007: £3.5m).
The Group’s very strong year end 
financial position and excellent cash 
generation characteristics give us 
great confidence for the future even in 
the event of further declines in market 
sentiment. We believe we will be able 
to continue to manage the business 
for the longer term and afford to make 
investments for the future without 
compromising our need to manage 
the Group prudently in line with the 
prevailing market conditions.
Group gross profit for the year 
improved by 19.8% to £218.9m 
(2007: £182.7m) with profit before 
tax and before exceptional items 
improving by 11.3% to £56.0m (2007: 
£50.3m) and profit before tax after 
exceptional items improving by 7.4% 
to £54.1m (2007: £50.3m). Given the 
exceptionally challenging business 
environment we are pleased with this 
result which we believe validates both 
the Group’s strategy and the quality of 
our staff and management.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008   SThree plc 7
Strategy
Notwithstanding the very different 
market conditions experienced 
during 2008, the Group’s strategy 
remained fundamentally unchanged. 
We continued to roll out the SThree 
model internationally into markets 
with strong structural growth 
characteristics. In parallel we looked 
to increase our exposure to a growing 
number of specialist staffing markets 
characterised by attractive supply and 
demand dynamics.
We remained highly selective in terms 
of the type of business we pursued. 
This meant once again rejecting the 
“high volume, low margin” model, 
instead favouring higher value 
transactions. Our niche-within-
niche approach underpins our strong 
margins and is a key element of this 
strategy, as is our ongoing push to go 
further up the value chain by securing 
a greater percentage of senior level 
placements. We also retained our 
preference for a broad client base to 
avoid being overly exposed to a limited 
number of influential clients. Our 
significant SME franchise helps us to 
mitigate this risk.
Our internal hiring strategy continued 
to be based on “grow our own” with 
an emphasis on taking on relatively 
young individuals early in their 
professional careers. We then provide 
extensive training to transform 
raw potential into productive 
consultants and ultimately our future 
management and Directors. For 
the most able and entrepreneurial 
of these, the possibility of equity 
participation through our Minority 
Interest (MI) programme remains an 
important incentive.
Our multi-brand approach remains 
a key element of our model and 
the brand’s separate identities and 
specialist areas of expertise are an 
important market segmentation 
strategy. However, we increasingly 
look to maximise synergies and 
during the year saw a pleasing level 
of cross-pollination within the Group, 
particularly in terms of talented 
individuals moving inter-brand to 
pursue new opportunities.
Geographical expansion
At the end of 2008 the Group operated 
a total of fifty-seven offices in ten 
countries. During the year we added 
four new offices outside of the UK 
and one in the UK in Aberdeen. T wo 
of these international offices were in 
established countries (Huxley Paris 
and Madison Black Amsterdam) with 
two others in entirely new locations 
for the Group (Pathway Dubai and 
Progressive Sydney). The latter are 
both seen as platforms for further 
geographical expansion within their 
respective regions. In H1 of 2009, we 
plan to open additional international 
offices in Singapore, Hamburg, 
Frankfurt, Dusseldorf and Marseilles.
Whilst it is exciting to note the 
increasingly global nature of the 
Group, it is worth commenting that 
much of the very strong Non UK result 
was attributable to the performance 
of our longer established and far 
larger territories in mainland Europe, 
particularly Germany and Benelux.
Overall Non UK gross profit growth 
accelerated slightly during the year 
improving by 64.1% to £97.4m (2007: 
62% to £59.3m). Given that 2007 was 
a tough act to follow being itself an 
extremely strong year, we believe this 
represents an excellent performance. 
It is worth considering the fact that 
growth on this scale was achievable 
despite the Eurozone not providing 
a strong economic tailwind during 
the year. We believe this is testimony 
to the powerful structural growth 
dynamics that prevail in the specialist 
staffing markets of territories such as 
Germany and France.
By contrast the UK staffing market 
is far more mature. This fact was 
compounded by the weakness in 
the UK economy and the impact 
on the (already weak) banking and 
finance market of the intensification 
of the banking crisis in the second 
half. In these circumstances a gross 
profit of £121.6m representing only 
a 1.4% decline against the previous 
year (2007: £123.3m) was an entirely 
acceptable result. As we would 
expect, the UK showed greater 
weakness within the permanent 
market than in contract with the latter 
market holding up reasonably well in 
the circumstances.
Sector Expansion
The major investment that we made 
during 2007 to accelerate our growth 
into newer staffing segments was 
continued in 2008. The results were 
extremely encouraging. In particular 
we saw a step up in the roll-out of Non 
ICT segments into Non UK territories. 
We believe the combination of the 
two is a powerful one with (to cite just 
one example) the German engineering 
market having massive long term 
potential. The result was a striking 
step forward in the growth of Non ICT 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 8
gross profit during 2008 to a total of 
£50.5m representing a year on year 
improvement of 55.2% compared 
to the 33.3% increase posted the 
previous year.
The performance of the Non ICT 
segment is all the more impressive 
when we consider that historically 
our largest Non ICT franchise has 
been the UK investment banking 
market which was down around 50% 
in 2008. T aking up a good part of this 
shortfall was the investment banking 
market overseas, which was (perhaps 
surprisingly) robust during the year. In 
addition we saw strong performances 
from teams in areas such as public 
sector, oil & gas, pharmaceuticals and 
engineering.
Notwithstanding the successes 
referred to above, the Group’s Non 
ICT franchise is still a relatively young 
and underdeveloped element of the 
Group’s activities and one which we 
believe has great future potential.
Staffing levels
Growth in sales headcount is an 
integral part of the Group’s strategy. 
We look to staff our sales teams to 
the maximum level that the prevailing 
market opportunity and management 
bandwidth will sustain. Consistent 
with this, in recent years, sales 
headcount growth has been very 
significant.
Unsurprisingly, 2008 saw a far more 
conservative growth with overall 
Group headcount increasing by a total 
of 239 to 2,274 as at 30 November 
2008 (2007: 2,035). However, this 
top-level view disguises the fact that 
in those markets where demand 
remained robust we were still able 
to grow teams quite aggressively. As 
such, teams that address Non UK and/
or Non ICT areas grew by 42% during 
2008.
Conversely, markets which saw major 
reduction in demand contracted 
sharply. For example our UK ICT teams 
ended the year 23.8% down and the 
UK Banking segment rightsized by c. 
45% in line with the further decline 
in that market. Our remuneration 
strategy is unashamedly “Darwinian” 
and a survival of the fittest ethos 
applies. We believe this inherent 
flexibility is a great strength of the 
business allowing us to react in “real 
time” to changes in the market. 
Conversely because we hire staff at a 
junior level and train them ourselves 
we can rebuild teams in anticipation 
of an upturn almost equally quickly.
Contract/Permanent business 
mix
During the year the Group recorded 
increases in both volume and 
value across both the contract and 
permanent sides of the business. 
In 2008 we made a total of 10,236 
permanent placements, an increase 
of 7.0% on 2007 (2007: 9,568). Our 
year end total of contract runners was 
5,745 compared to 5,662 at the end 
of 2007, representing an increase of 
1.5%.
Consistent with our strategy of 
focusing on good quality, high margin 
business we were still able to post 
meaningful increases in value. During 
the year our average permanent 
placement fee grew 5.9% to £10,355 
(2007: £9,780). Similarly the Group’s 
contractors produced an average daily 
gross profit of £78.30 (2007: £71.42) 
representing a 9.7% increase.
Although advantageous FX 
movements explain some of these 
improvements, even if we strip this 
effect out the underlying growth rates 
remain strong. Indeed it is interesting 
to note that even in the very tough UK 
market both the average permanent 
fee and the average contractor gross 
profit showed growth. The former 
is all the more noteworthy when 
we consider that the percentage 
of banking-related fees in the mix 
(typically significantly higher fees 
than average) was substantially down 
year-on-year.
The impact of a weaker UK permanent 
market and a strong performance 
from Non UK contract business 
combined to impact the overall 
business mix in favour of contract. At 
the end of 2008 the group was biased 
52%: 48% in favour of contract for 
the year ended 30 November 2008, 
a change from the 51%: 49% ratio in 
favour of permanent that we saw at 
the end of 2007.
Brand Analysis
In 2007, as in previous years, we 
reported the four largest brands as 
being Computer Futures, Huxley, 
Progressive and Pathway. However, 
Real Resourcing, a brand not 
previously mentioned specifically, 
had an outstanding 2008. As a result 
of its 48.1% increase in gross profit 
to £15.4m (2007: £10.4m) it overtook 
Pathway to become the 4th largest of 
the SThree brands.
Real Resourcing’s achievement was 
all the more impressive considering 
that it currently has relatively limited 
exposure to our more buoyant 
overseas markets through its very 
recently established international 
office in Amsterdam and its planned 
Frankfurt office. It does however have 
a strong UK public sector franchise 
and this certainly contributed to 
its exceptional performance. For 
its part, Pathway posted growth of 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued) SThree plc 9
15.5% to £13.4m (2007: £11.6m) with 
a significant contribution from its 
Dubai operation helping to offset the 
relative weakness of its domestic ICT 
business.
Computer Futures (which re-branded 
as FS Group during the year) was 
once again our largest brand with 
gross profit of £63.1m (2007: £53.9m) 
representing a 17.1% increase on the 
previous year. We see this as a very 
credible performance from our longest 
established business which benefited 
from the maturity of its international 
presence and improved returns 
from its newer non ICT franchises 
in Accountancy and HR. During H1 
of 2009, this brand will add further 
offices in Hamburg and Marseilles.
Huxley, although close behind, stayed 
in second position with growth of 
19.1% resulting in gross profit of 
£60.4m (2007: £50.7m). Huxley’s 
performance was achieved despite the 
fact that it has the Group’s greatest 
overall exposure to the investment 
banking market. The impact of this 
was offset by its fast growing Non 
UK business. During the year Huxley 
added to its network of international 
offices by opening a new operation in 
Paris.
Progressive, our third largest brand, 
had an excellent year. Gross profit 
increased during 2008 by 37.2% to 
£43.5m (2007: £31.7m). In common 
with Huxley and Computer Futures 
(FS Group) this was driven through 
an expanding international presence, 
which will be further enhanced in 
2009 through office openings in 
Singapore, Dusseldorf and Dubai. 
In Progressive’s case it was also 
enhanced by the success of its Oil & 
Gas franchise which led to the planned 
establishment of an Aberdeen office 
to open in Q1 of 2009. Progressive 
opened in Sydney during the year and 
will launch in Singapore in Q1 2009.
Overall the performance of the five 
largest brands resulted in an increase 
in their internal “market share” 
relative to the smaller Group brands. 
In aggregate they were responsible 
for 89.4% of the Group’s gross profit 
compared to 86.6% in the previous 
year.
Outlook
We enter 2009 off the back of a 
very creditable 2008 performance 
achieved in exceptional 
circumstances. The year was more 
challenging than we anticipated but 
the Group still posted significant 
growth and we were able to continue 
to build the strategic platform for our 
future success.
Looking forward to 2009 we are not 
anticipating a meaningful change in 
market sentiment from that we saw 
in the latter part of 2008. As such, we 
expect 2009 trading conditions to be 
more difficult overall than in 2008 and 
there is little doubt that the year in 
prospect will be the toughest we have 
experienced in some years.
However, we have a twenty two-year 
track record of profitable trading and 
cash generation throughout the cycle 
and  a seasoned management team 
that has been through major market 
downturns in the past. As a business 
we have been thoroughly stress 
tested on a number of occasions and 
have never been found wanting. The 
Group also benefits from a flexible 
workforce and an agile business 
model. We start the year with a strong 
cash position and no debt.
Our substantial exposure to the 
contract market is a significant 
mitigating factor and a valuable ‘cash 
hedge’ in difficult market conditions. 
Each contractor ties up working 
capital, therefore as contractor 
numbers reduce, so working capital is 
released, improving the Group’s cash 
position. That said, we will continue 
to run the business with an emphasis 
on operational efficiency and prudent 
cost control. We will not, however, 
cease to make sensible investments 
where appropriate or turn our back on 
opportunities where they arise.
In summary, we enter 2009 with our 
eyes open, mindful of the risks and 
challenges ahead. Nonetheless, we 
are confident that as a business we 
are particularly well suited to emerge 
from the current difficult period in 
excellent shape to take advantage 
of the inevitable market recovery, 
whenever it may materialise.
Russell Clements
Chief Executive Officer
30 January 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Year ended 30 November 2008    (continued)
