 SThree plc 3
In my first statement as SThree 
Chairman, I am very pleased to 
report that despite the economic 
uncertainty which continued as we 
moved into 2010, the Group was still 
able to achieve an excellent set of 
results. Despite some very challenging 
market conditions, we expanded the 
business globally, the Group having 
been re-organised under regional 
MDs in early 2010. At the time of 
writing, we are also now seeing signs 
that our share price is moving in the 
right direction, benefitting those 
shareholders who invested at IPO or 
shortly thereafter and who have stuck 
with the Company through the more 
recent difficult times. It should not 
be forgotten that many in the latter 
category are our valued employees.
During the year we opened new 
offices in Perth, Delhi, Houston, San 
Francisco, Munich and Düsseldorf, 
with further offices in Doha, Sao 
Paulo, Antwerp and Abu Dhabi due 
to open in H1 2011. As a result, we 
now have an even more diversified 
business, both in terms of geographic 
and sector spread, this will enable us 
to optimise our performance as the 
market further improves. Our non 
UK gross profit now represents 60% 
of the Group’s gross profit (2009: 
55%). As always, we remain open-
minded with regard to the launch 
of new ventures, continuing to back 
home-grown entrepreneurial talent 
and utilise the established tracker 
share (minority-stakes) model where 
appropriate, in order to expand beyond 
our existing bases.
A detailed review of our trading and 
results is provided within the Chief 
Executive Officer’s, Chief Financial 
Officer’s Reviews and other sections 
of this Annual Report. During the year, 
we have also continued to improve 
our reporting on Remuneration, 
Governance and Corporate Social 
Responsibility (‘CSR’) issues, wherever 
we can, to accommodate best practice 
and investor requirements and we will 
continue to expand these areas as the 
business moves forward.
We continued to roll out our Enterprise 
Risk Management (‘ERM’) processes, 
formalising both Group and local risk 
appetite parameters under new KPIs, 
all of which are now firmly embedded 
within the business and underpinned 
by our Group Risk Management Policy. 
Along with early consideration of the 
new UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’), these measures are a 
further demonstration of our solid 
stewardship and strong approach to 
corporate governance.
Our tried and tested strategy remains 
primarily focused on pursuing 
organic growth, through continued 
development of the Group’s well-
established UK business, whilst 
at the same time also increasing 
the Group’s revenues from other 
sectors and countries. Our business 
model continues to prioritise high 
quality over high volume and seeks 
to optimise the superior margins 
we consistently achieve as a 
consequence of this approach. The 
multi-brand strategy we operate and 
our highly diversified client base will, 
as ever, be crucial in achieving this 
goal and we believe that all SThree 
businesses, irrespective of their 
relative maturity, have scope for 
significant further growth.
The Directors recommend a final 
dividend of 8.0p (second interim 2009: 
8.0p) per share for the year ended 
28 November 2010, to be paid on 
6 June 2011, to those on the register as 
at 6 May 2011. This follows the interim 
dividend of 4.0p (2009: 4.0p) per 
share declared earlier in the year and 
paid on 3 December 2010.
The SThree business is built on an 
absolute focus on delivering high 
quality and timely permanent and 
contract specialist staffing services 
to our clients. It remains therefore, 
first and foremost a people business 
and it is only as a direct result of the 
talent and dedication of our people 
that we are able to continue to post 
such resilient results. At the year 
end the Group employed a total of 
1,863 people worldwide, an increase 
from 1,597 at the prior year end and 
we have a clear strategy to grow 
this further over the next five years, 
particularly in our newer geographies, 
whilst also launching initiatives 
Chairman’s Statement
for the year ended 28 November 2010 SThree plc 4
which will improve the way we work. 
Chief amongst these is our ‘Values’ 
initiative which looks to ensure that 
the SThree core values of Respect, 
Rapport, Energy and Reward are at the 
forefront of everything that we do.
We are applying early the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and, as such, all Directors will retire at 
the 2011 AGM and submit themselves 
for re-election. Further information on 
this is contained within the Notice of 
Meeting.
Under the Code, as Chairman, I 
am required to oversee the annual 
performance evaluation process 
conducted in respect of the Board, 
Committees and individual Directors 
and to hold regular development 
meetings with Directors in respect 
of any issues identified. I am very 
pleased to say that the evaluation 
concluded that, overall and 
individually, the performance of the 
Board, each Committee and each 
Director was and is effective and 
that all Directors demonstrate full 
commitment in their respective roles.
During the year we said goodbye to 
both Sir Anthony Cleaver and Sunil 
Wickremeratne. T ony retired at the 
AGM in April 2010 and his significant 
influence helped create the blueprint 
of the highly successful plc we are 
today, whilst Sunil retired at the end 
of November 2010, having been with 
the Group some 22 years. He was 
instrumental in creating a number 
of SThree’s key brands and without 
him the Group would certainly not be 
what it is today and he will be sorely 
missed as both a friend and colleague 
by many.
I would also like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our continuing 
employees across the world once 
again for their contribution during 
the year, many of whom have been 
with the Group for all or most of their 
careers. Some of these individuals 
are featured in the front half of 
this Annual Report, which shows 
highlights from the Group’s annual 
management conference and 
corporate HQ.
We believe that our prospects for 
further growth and success remain 
excellent and whilst our business 
will ultimately depend on the overall 
strength of the worldwide economy, 
we are confident of a bright future.
Clay Brendish
CHAIRMAN
28 January 2011
Chairman’s Statement (continued)
for the year ended 28 November 2010
