 Chairman’s Statement
Rodney Baker-Bates, Group Chairman
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010     2
Performance
We have achieved significant contract wins in the past financial
year, particularly a major new win with Unilever. We have
improved our margins by delivering synergies, through tight cost
control and by driving further efficiencies in our core trucking
business. We are utilising our assets better, as is demonstrated
by the development programme at the Widnes inland port and
similar schemes will follow.
This past year has also seen an improvement in the funding of the
business. We have repaid facilities due within 12 months and
improved the asset and liability matching within the balance sheet. 
Other highlights include the completed successful integration of
recently acquired businesses such as James Irlam and Innovate
(renamed Eddie Stobart Chilled). These integrations have seen
significant synergies and efficiency savings, which should yield
further benefits going forward.
Dividend
The Group maintains a progressive dividend policy, which takes
into account underlying growth in Group earnings, capital require-
ments and cash flows, while maintaining an appropriate level of
dividend cover.
An interim dividend of 2p was paid in December 2009. The Board
is proposing a final dividend of 4p per ordinary share, bringing the
total dividend for the year to 6p (2009:6p). The final dividend will be
paid to shareholders on 21 June 2010.
People
On 1 July 2009, Jesper Kjaedegaard and Daniel Dayan were
appointed as Non-Executive Directors, replacing Richard Burrell
and Nigel Rawlings, who guided the Group through the transition
from The Westbury Property Fund to the Stobart Group. We are
grateful for their input.
Jesper and Daniel have the skills and experience to help guide the
Group through this exciting time in its growth and development.
Jesper brings a wealth of experience in multimodal logistics, espe-
cially in ports and shipping. Daniel has solid operational experience
that gives him a strong customer perspective.
Outlook
The economic climate is still tough as Andrew Tinkler’s statement
makes clear. However the Board remains convinced that the Group
has the market strategy, systems and people in place to prosper. We
are very positive about the continued future growth potential across
all the Divisions. 
We approach 2010/11 in a buoyant mood, forecasting better mar-
gins, further cost management opportunities, additional turnover
from new contracts and substantial further progress in some of our
recent acquisitions, such as London Southend Airport. Asset devel-
opment opportunities will continue to bring good project returns,
whilst at the same time strengthening our core transport and ware-
house businesses.  
Rodney Baker-Bates Non-Executive Chairman
On behalf of the Board, I am
pleased to report on a period
of both good progress and
consolidation within the
Group. The Group has
strengthened all aspects of
the business, despite the
tough trading year.
