 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Andrew Tinkler, Chief Executive Officer
11     Stobart Group Limited
Vision
Our vision is clear: to be the UK’s leading provider of multimodal
transport and logistics solutions. T o do so, we need to expand all
forms of transport, especially rail, sea and air. We need infrastruc-
tures in the best places to service the maximum number of
customers. We have made a good start, and are outperforming the
market, but we still have some way to go.
Our divisional operations are supported by a profitable new area
of our business; logistics asset development, which continues to
grow and is exemplified by our ongoing development at our
Widnes inland sea port. We set up a desirable infrastructure, sold
part of the assets at a capital gain, generating a return on invest-
ment for our shareholders. 
In addition, we have secured a three-year road transport revenue
stream with T esco, a rail freight revenue stream for inbound goods
and a storage and handling revenue stream for the inland port
terminal. This demonstrates how operational services and devel-
opment of our logistics assets are linked.
Stobart Group is a FTSE 250 company comprising four main Divi-
sions: Road, Rail, Ports and Air. While Eddie Stobart remains the
core of our business – responsible for about 85 percent of turnover
– I am confident in the growth potential of our other Divisions.
Andrew Tinkler Chief Executive Officer
Strategy
Our strategy is underpinned by our brand, people and systems:
> Forming new partnerships with customers to further drive
efficiencies.
> T o seize the opportunities, operationally, as the economy comes
out of recession, building on our key competitive advantages,
such as load utilisation and pooling our customers.
> T o market and develop our assets to our customers and then
sell these assets where appropriate, at a profit to be reinvested
in the business.
> T o develop systems and technologies that protect the business
from operational and financial risk.
> T o grow organically with both existing and new customers.
> T o take waste out of the system; waste adds to cost and
damages the environment. 
> T o increase business in the UK, Ireland and mainland Europe.
> T o leverage the high value in our brand.
CEO, Andrew Tinkler explains how an exciting, ambitious vision for the Group;
to become the UK’s leading name in multimodal transport and logistics; is
rapidly coming to fruition, despite the background of a tough economic climate.
Introduction                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   12
Answering the key questions
You are now offering two service streams across the Divisions:
The operational side and the asset development, as epitomised
by your recent sale of part of the giant Widnes site. This marked
a strategic shift in 2009. Can you explain in more detail?
Across all of our Divisions we have an operating business that is
performing well and another asset development business that is
also giving a good return. 
Let me explain the latter in more detail: A lot of underutilised exist-
ing assets in key locations will put value into the respective
Divisions in the coming years. Equally, we will buy land in the right
locations, preferably next to road, rail, sea and air facilities.
We develop this land and we sell it to our customers as a business
concept because it’s in the right location. We develop it for them,
then we generate revenue streams for the operational side of the
business, be it road, rail, warehousing etc, and ultimately we sell on
the asset at a profit. It’s a low-risk, profitable model. 
The sale of the first phase at our Widnes inland port, part of the
Merseyside Multimodal Gateway, is a good example of how this
works. This is not speculative asset development, rather it is low
risk and very well integrated with the operational side. The asset
development helps the operational side, and vice versa.
How multimodal are you really?
If a customer wants road, rail, sea or air transport, we can deliver.
We have the infrastructure. If we don’t have the transport for a par-
ticular journey, we can partner with someone to do it. We are
developing our own assets, and infrastructures, to be more cost-
effective and more multimodal.
The aim is certainly to grow the Rail, Port and Air Divisions. There
are big environmental benefits. But you will always need a truck at
the end of every journey, for that final delivery. You have to under-
stand what type of truck to use and how to use it. A radius of up to
about 100-150 miles is the ideal journey for a truck, but no more.
We’d like to replace truck with train on some of those longer journeys.
If we can do multi-drops on the rail network – loading and unloading
at major stopover points by having our assets on the rail network at
the right place – then that helps. T ypically with rail now, you have one
big loading and one big unloading. We’re trying to change that. 
With sea, the big container ships have one drop-off point, such as
Rotterdam, Southampton or Felixstowe. We want to use feeder
ships from those vast ports. We need volume for that and Stobart
Group have enough customers to potentially make that work.
That’s where inland ports can also work, they’re ideal for smaller
feeder vessels and they’re typically nearer other transport hubs.
How would you sum up 2009?
We have taken big strides in achieving our goal of being true multi-
modal providers, with substantial progress made in rail, air and
ports. But it’s been a difficult year because, with the recession, the
flow of the work has been up-and-down. There has clearly been
pressure on rates, as customers strive for better deals. Yet we’ve
done well. We haven’t gained materially on overall turnover but we
have been able to consolidate and reduce our own waste.
The tough weather conditions this past winter also proved a chal-
lenge but, by working in partnership with our customers, and thanks
to the commitment of our drivers, we have continued to deliver a
comprehensive service. We estimate the extreme conditions cost
the business in excess of £0.5m, however the longer-term benefits 
Pictured: Andrew Tinkler, right, discusses the new Rail Station and Control
T ower being constructed at London Southend Airport with Stobart Air MD,
Alastair Welch, far left, and Steven Harker, Stobart Rail’s Site Engineer, centre. Chief Executive Officer’s Statement  
Continued
13     Stobart Group Limited
should far outweigh this cost, as the conditions once again high-
lighted the inflexible nature of the Open Book model, under which
this cost would have been borne by the customer. Our core busi-
ness model and customer focus is comparatively recession
resistant, and during this challenging period we have managed to
outperform the industry.
A good strong business model helps in a recession and I believe
we have it. Compared with most rivals, we are comparatively reces-
sion-resistant. Because of our ’shared‘ trucks, and our ability to treat
all customers as ’one‘, we can maximise efficiency and our utilisa-
tion of trucks. Most of our deliveries are in the food and drink sector,
and that is also more recession proof than most other forms of
transport delivery. Our new contract with Unilever is also good news.
A lot of their products sell irrespective of recession, and season.
After all you still need bathroom cleaner or washing powder no mat-
ter what the state of the economy, or whether it’s summer or winter.
What have been the highlights?
There have been many highlights. Firstly, our development and sub-
sequent asset disposal of part of our Widnes inland port. This has
given a good return on investment – around 20% initially – and that
will be reinvested elsewhere in the business, including our expan-
sion plans for London Southend Airport. The Widnes phase one site
development and subsequent sale includes the new Northern Distri-
bution Centre for T esco’s ’fresh‘ operations, which was developed
by the Stobart Group. We were recently confirmed as transport con-
tractor from this distribution centre, which is excellent news. 
Secondly, the planning approval for the runway extension at London
Southend Airport. This is a key part of our plans, which include a
new railway station, terminal and control tower. Work starts soon
and will be finished a year in advance of the London 2012 Olympics.
London Southend is the nearest operational airport to the Olympic
site, and will have an excellent rail link, so it is superbly located.
Next, we are delighted to have won the transport contract with
another blue chip company, Unilever. This is a further endorsement
of our ’pay as you go‘ cost model – in which the customer only 
pays for what they need. If they require 50 trucks one day and 100
the next, Stobart Group can do that. We also pool our customers’
needs, improving efficiency for us and for our customers. 
Finally, the launch of the Spanish ‘fresh’ train service, from Valen-
cia to Barking in London, was also special. It’s the longest train
journey in Europe by a single operator, is faster and much more
environmentally friendly than similar journeys by road, and proves
the potential of rail for longer journeys.
You’re enjoying continued success at winning big name customers,
adding Unilever to the portfolio. How have you achieved this?
I think we have been innovative in bringing all our customers
together into a shared-user transport system to reduce empty
miles. One customer controlling their own fleet hasn’t got our
national coverage or our efficiencies. No-one has quite the same
partnerships or shared-users as we do. By pooling customers, we
can view them as one large customer.
Is that why you’ve also had success with small customers?
Yes, our policy of pooling customers means that no job is too
small. If you can fill one empty leg, you are saving money. An
empty truck or an empty leg that could be used by another cus-
tomer is an unnecessary waste of money.
What challenges face the transport and logistics industry?
The price of fuel is a huge issue for consumers as we are forced to
pass on the cost to our customers. It adds to the costs of our cus-
tomers’ goods and to consumers’ cost. Every train service we
establish reduces our fuel usage significantly.
Customers, of course, generally don’t care how their goods get
there, just as long as they get there. Being able to offer all four
modes of transport increases choice and efficiency. 
As fuel costs rise, reducing waste becomes an even greater issue
for the industry. It’s a big challenge. The other big issue is traffic
and road congestion. We need to do more to utilise our railroads
and our waterways. I think we’re taking the lead here. 
Introduction
Financial                                                                                                                                                    2010                         2009                % Change
Business Revenue                                   From continuing operations                                                      £447.7m              £431.1m                  +3.9%
EAFFC
a
                                                    Earnings After Fleet Financing Costs                                           £39.1m                £27.5m                +42.5%
Earnings Per Ordinary Share
b
                 Normalised from continuing operations                                           11.0p                    7.7p                +43.1%
Environmental
Fleet Utilisation                                         Reflecting low efficiency of integrated businesses                         83.7%                  84.1%                  -0.48%
Euro 4/5 Compliance                                T otal fleet                                                                                               88%                    81%                  +8.6%
People
Accident/Incident Rate (RIDDOR)            New measure more appropriate to Group                                          0.53               0.43                  23.3%
a Comprising underlying operating profit of £35.0m (2009: £31.4m) and net disposal profit on Widnes assets of £8.2m less fleet financing costs of £3.4m (2009: £3.2m) and share based
payments of £0.7m (2009: £0.7m).
b EPS is based on a PBT of £36.8m with a normalised tax charge of 28%. EPS excluding the net disposal profit on Widnes assets is 8.6p.
Key Performance Indicators                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   14
Finally, one of our specific challenges, as we continue to acquire
and take on more businesses, is integrating the Stobart culture. We
need these businesses we acquire to understand our core values –
our attention to detail, our customer service, our drivers’ tidy
appearance, our environmental commitments, our job satisfaction
and the extraordinary following we have from the Members’ Club.
How have you dealt with the economic uncertainty?
We have to continually check our costs. People are buying more
sporadically now, they are buying more at the last minute. This
causes peaks and troughs in demand, which can make life difficult
for businesses.
The IT infrastructure that Stobart has developed over the years
helps keep utilisation rates on an even keel, minimising the swings
in demand.
Business conditions are still quite flat. We are predicting a boost
this summer because of the football World Cup, especially in drink
sales. A hot summer would help too; when the sun shines it boosts
the economy. Stobart Group have out-performed the market; keep-
ing level operationally and hitting our targets. T urnover is reasonably
flat but our margins have improved. We have also developed assets
to give a return to shareholders that showed the actual assets were
undervalued.
We have outperformed the market partly because 85 percent of
our customers are in food and drink or recession-resistant retail
sectors. For instance, we weren’t reliant on the motor industry,
which has been badly hit, but people still have to eat and drink.
They may buy cheaper brands of orange juice and cheaper
chocolate biscuits, but they still need to be transported. 
Your capacity utilisation is higher than the industry standard.
How have you achieved this?
By sharing customers and putting IT systems in place that allow us
to monitor it all ’live‘, and anticipate it before it even happens. During 
this year, our UK capacity utilisation was 83.7 percent. It was rea-
sonably flat because of integrating new business that wasn’t up to
our efficiency standard, and the recession. I don’t believe you can
get much better than 90 percent because you will always have
some empty miles. 
You are still acquiring, still expanding. How will you expand
moving forward?
We certainly see growth in road, rail, air and sea transport, mostly
at the expense of less efficient competitors. We also see growth
and great investment potential in our asset development. Widnes
this year is a good model. 
Southend Airport has been a highlight this year. T ake us through
the rationale of your involvement.
It’s part of our multimodal strategy. Look at air; 82 percent of all air
freight coming into London comes on passenger planes. So what’s
the point of buying transport planes when the passenger airlines
are already struggling? If Stobart Group can get an operator to use
our airport and help him fill his plane with freight, we’ve won
twofold... We’ve got freight business and passenger business.
By developing an airport that has a fast rail service for both passen-
gers and freight, Stobart Group has a big advantage over all those
other London airports that are further from town. We can also pro-
vide air transport from mainland Europe that is 20 minutes faster
than any other London airport, or 40 minutes faster on a round trip.
That’s a massive time and fuel saving. 
If you take Southampton Airport as a model, it has two million pas-
sengers now and the same length of runway and a rail station
nearby. We have a station right next to the air terminal itself and
much quicker links to London, and I believe that we can be a
‘Southampton’ quite easily. We certainly predict two million passen-
gers by 2020 for London Southend and if the right airline operators
come in, we could have a million passengers by 2012. Thanks to
the Olympics, there may be even more. Chief Executive Officer’s Statement   
Continued
We have taken a controlling interest in the newly-formed
Stobart Biomass Products Limited, together with market-leader
A.W. Jenkinson. The new company sources and distributes
biomass fuel for renewable energy production in the UK, it is 
a market that could increase tenfold in the next three years.
15     Stobart Group Limited
You have also just invested in the biomass market, through a
new venture with a biomass supplier. Why?
We have taken a controlling interest in the newly formed Stobart Bio-
mass Products, together with market leader A.W. Jenkinson. The new
company sources and distributes biomass fuel to the UK renewable
energy market. At the same time we have secured a ten year major
transport contract with A.W. Jenkinson’s existing business.
We anticipate that the biomass business market could increase
tenfold in the next three years, not least because EU law mandates
that 15 percent of electricity must come from renewable resources,
such as biomass, by 2020, and the UK has set an even higher tar-
get of 30 percent.
Our expertise in transport logistics clearly helps. Transport and logis-
tics is a major cost and headache for biomass suppliers and
Stobart’s expertise will bring improved efficiencies to the whole bio-
mass logistics and supply chain.
One further point; to build a biomass generator you need the raw
material to feed it. We have some of the raw material, such as 
packaging, in the trucks. Using it also reduces empty running. It
gives customers another level of service. Plus there is the environ-
mental benefit.
The business is coming up to 40 years old. Does the Stobart of
today have anything in common with the Stobart of the 1970s?
It’s a similar company – the cleanliness (you’ll never see a grubby
Stobart vehicle on the road), the professionalism, the customer
service. It has the same values, the same culture. People who have
been here for years would still recognise Stobart. Obviously there
are differences – we’re a listed company, for example – but we still
have those family values.
We need to continue to increase our investment in the brand, to put
the Stobart name even more ‘on the map’. We have clearly been
successful here: Stobart is already listed as a UK ‘Superbrand’,
32nd in a list of 500 business brands for 2010. We can continue to
build the brand by emphasising our core characteristics and, of
course, supporting the marvellous Stobart Members’ Club.
 
 
Introduction
The Biomass Process
Biomass Fuel
Biowaste is chipped 
to form Biofuel
Transport by 
Eddie Stobart
Boiler
generates
steam
Surplus low pressure 
Steam often used for 
Domestic or 
Industrial Heating
Steam turbine
generates electricity
Green 
Electricity                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010   16
