 3        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction
Eddie Stobart, Business Highlights 2009-2010
Success with blue-chip business
The award of the new Unilever contract is yet another example
of how Stobart Group is growing through its ability to win major
contracts from headline brands.
It’s been another strong year for new business at the Stobart
Group. There have been important wins with both small and large
clients, notably a new contract with Unilever.
“One reason why Unilever were attracted to Stobart is due to our
highly efficient ‘pooling of customers’, which delivers substantial
cost savings over the traditional revenue driven ‘Open Book’
model” said William Stobart. “Another reason is Stobart’s multi-
modal service, offering road, rail, sea and air. They recognised
that the Stobart Group’s cutting edge technology and operating
systems are superior to any rival.
Executive Director David Irlam’s long
experience in high level negotiations
has been invaluable in consolidating
and expanding existing key client
relationships and securing valuable
new contracts with blue-chip names
like Johnson & Johnson.
Left: Stobart’s Johnson & Johnson Contract Manager Peter Kelly with 
Executive Director David Irlam on the right.                                                                                                                                                                         Report and Accounts 2010     4
Like them, we also have a carbon cutting agenda and this environ-
mental innovation appealed to Unilever. They also liked the Stobart
culture. It is different from competitors. We can offer the financial
security of a FTSE 250 company with an underlying ‘family busi-
ness’ attitude.”
Eddie Stobart’s key relationship with T esco plc has been further
consolidated with a major new £25m per annum transport contract
serving the retail giant’s north east Distribution Centre at T eesport.
Stobart Ireland continues to show significant growth with the award
of a €13m transport contract for T esco’s Donabate DC.
Warehousing continues to perform impressively with new contracts
awarded by Danone (£4m per annum) and SCA Packaging (£2m
per annum). The integration of the Chilled operation has also been
reflected in new business with Dale Farm, Del Monte and Co-Op,
totalling £7m per annum. Arla Foods is now one of Chilled’s largest
customers generating around £3m revenue per annum.
New contracts have been matched with extensive renewals across
the Eddie Stobart transport and warehousing operation. The
Group’s relationships with leading names, Gerber, Knauf, McBride plc
and Forest Garden have all been renewed and extended.
Finally, and significantly, a new nine year contract with Stobart’s
longest-standing client, Crown has been agreed. Building on a 40
year relationship, it takes advantage of the new development now
underway at Carlisle airport. This just-in-time transport and ware-
housing contract will generate revenue over the contract totalling
circa £150m.
The Unilever contract is
worth circa £20m annually
and is a major bonus to the
Group. As a client, Unilever is
particularly attractive because
many of its headline products
sell irrespective of recession 
or season. Stobart Rail, Business Highlights 2009-2010
5        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction The innovative new Valencia ‘fresh’ rail service, which was
launched in September 2009, is likely to increase from one to
three services per week during 2010.
National and International 
Rail Freight solutions
Stobart Rail began its innovative ‘fresh’ train service from Valencia
in southern Spain to Barking in London last October. The weekly
service provides for the first time a low-carbon alternative for
retailers and customers for the import of fresh Spanish produce. 
The pioneering Spanish train is the longest train route provided
by a single European operator at 1,100 miles. The new train
also marks the first time a refrigerated service has operated
through the Eurotunnel. 
It is also faster than an equivalent journey by road, improving the
‘shelf life’ of the products – mostly fruit and vegetables. The service
is also considerably more environmentally friendly than a similar
road service; reducing CO2 emissions annually by 5,502 tonnes
and cutting 6.92 million kilometres of road journeys per year.  
In line with Stobart’s ongoing drive to reduce waste throughout
the business the return journey is full of pallets, cutting out
empty running.
“Plans are well advanced for the extension of the route from
Barking on to Stobart’s multimodal hub at Widnes, where there
is an extensive chilled warehouse distribution facility,” said Sto-
bart Group Chief Operating Officer William Stobart. “Widnes is
an ideal hub for distribution into the heartland of the UK.”
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010     6 Stobart’s Inland Port
was developed by
the Group’s in-house
team, generating new
operating revenue
streams and then two
parts were sold at a
significant profit.
Inland Port Asset
Development and Disposal
Across its four Divisions the Group performs operational services for customers and
during this past year has seen the first results of a profitable new complementary
business stream for the Stobart Group: Asset development and disposal.
Existing underutilised assets such as the port facilities – or new assets in convenient
locations near major roads, ports or airports – will be developed generating operational
profit streams and then potentially disposed at a capital profit. 
Prior to year end, the Group sold part of its inland ports asset, at Widnes, to Legal and
General Assurance (Pension Management) Limited, for £61 million. The disposal pack-
age included the outright sale of the new T esco chilled distribution site and the sale
and leaseback of the adjoining inland port terminal. This represented an initial return on
investment of 19.6 percent. 
A key part of the sale was the 528,000 square foot distribution centre developed by the
Group and recently announced as the new Northern Distribution Centre for T esco’s
’fresh’ operations. The Group has also been confirmed as transport contractor. Further-
more, the Group will generate additional revenue streams from rail freight and ports
storage and handling. The centre is superbly placed, alongside a major inland port,
good road network, a rail terminal and Liverpool Airport. Stobart’s existing Valencia
‘fresh’ rail service will soon be extended to the Widnes site, allowing fresh fruit and veg-
etables to be delivered, for T esco, directly from southern Spain. When Stobart fully
develops the Widnes site, it will double in size, and will increase the company’s total
warehousing capacity to nearly seven million square feet.
“This asset disposal illustrates a fundamental strategy of our Group which is to invest in
assets in order to develop existing and new customer relationships and then realise the
value of the asset, at a profit, to reinvest elsewhere within the business,” said Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Tinkler.
Stobart Ports, Business Highlights 2009-2010
7        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction 90 Acres Approved 
for Development
Currently under 
negotiation with a
number of clients. 
42 Acres Already
Developed
31 Acres Already
Developed
    
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010     8 Airport development on-target
With planning permission granted for the new runway extension
at Southend and development work well underway, the nearby
London Olympics will ensure there’s huge potential for the site.
Stobart’s Air Division has made huge progress in the past year,
thanks mostly to developments at London Southend Airport. The
long established airport, once the third busiest in the UK, was
acquired by the Stobart Group in December 2008. 
Stobart plans to greatly increase capacity, and will work with existing
and new operators to boost both passengers and freight. The goal
is to welcome at least 600,000 passengers to Southend by 2012,
the year of the London Olympics, rising to two million by 2020.
Stobart Air, Business Highlights 2009-2010
With planning permission now
granted for the important runway
extension at London Southend 
Airport, construction of the new Control
T ower is moving ahead fast, whilst the
dedicated Rail Station is rapidly ap-
proaching completion by Stobart Rail.
9        Stobart Group Limited
Introduction
Dedicated Rail Station 
and Carpark
Under Construction
Site of New T erminal
Dubai Ports’ new Shell Haven 
deep sea port development
New Control T ower 
Under Construction
Recently Approved
Runway Extension
Dover
  
    Government approval for the runway exten-
sion forms a key stage in Stobart’s £30 million
development plans, with work already under-
way on a new railway station and control
tower which will be completed during 2010. 
Southend is closer to mainland Europe than
any other London airport reducing flying time
by 20 minutes. The airspace over Southend
is less congested than other London facili-
ties, reducing the likelihood of delay and
improving passenger flow.
London Southend Airport
> Prestigious dedicated railway station will be completed September 2010, providing
a quick route into Central London for local people, as well as airport customers.
> New Control T ower will be completed November 2010.
> New Passenger T erminal will be completed September 2011.
> Existing 1,605m x 37m runway approved for extension to 1,905m, giving a take off
distance of 1,799m.
> Runway Extension will be completed by October 2011.
> The extended runway will easily handle popular 160 seat, short haul aircraft such
as the Airbus A319 and Boeing 737.
> Commercial operations should serve two million passengers each year by 2020.
    
                                                                                                                                                                        Report and Accounts 2010   10
M25
  
   
  
  Stratford 42min
Rail to London
Liverpool
Street 49min  
City of London and
Millennium Dome
Airport industrial complex 
and development land
Fuel Farm
