 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements
09
We are now well positioned to expand
delivery in 2013 to an average of 50,000
DMT per month, under the Glencore off-
take contract and additional sales are
expected to continue to domestic
customers.
Less than 18 months after our June 2011
listing on AIM, Strategic Minerals has
realised its immediate ambition of
becoming a major supplier of magnetite ore
to the world’s industrial markets.  
We have reached this position by
targeting shareholder value on four fronts:
• First, a programme of productivity and 
operational efficiency at Cobre
• Second, the successful completion of a
large-scale sales supply contract with a 
global commodities trader
• Third, a detailed review of our pipeline 
of exploration iron ore assets in 
Queensland, Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory of Australia and
• Fourth, securing funding for careful 
allocation to meet the working capital 
needs of the Company through its 
operational growth phase
Value has been created through:
• The commercial contract concluded 
with Glencore AG to deliver 800,000 
WMT of magnetite concentrate, giving 
Strategic Minerals a stable sales outlet 
that mitigates risk
• Completing the US$3.5 million 
refurbishment of the rail spur line to the 
Cobre mine for bulk 100-ton rail car 
shipments
• On-going production increases through 
2012, culminating in the first export 
market shipment of 48,000 DMT in 
November
These milestones demonstrate Strategic
Minerals’ technical and operational
capabilities as a developer and asset
manager of large-scale mine stockpiles.
Revenues and experience generated at
Cobre establish a stable platform for success
as Strategic Minerals looks to acquire rights
over additional magnetite stockpiles.
Iron ore exploration:
Australia licences
Whilst the ramping up of operations at Cobre
has been our focus, we have worked to
access the most efficient way of releasing
value from the portfolio of exploration
properties. Management have taken a
fundamental decision that in the current
climate the main focus of the Company has
to be the development of its core cash
producing tailings activities and not in
expending significant cash exploring early
stage “green field” tenements. As a result the
Company is now in the process of
rationalising its exploration portfolio.
The most significant of the Company’s
exploration assets is the Iron Glen property in
Queensland. In addition, the Company holds
a number of other tenements including
Jotanooka and Dragon Rocks tenements
(Western Australia) and the Roper River and
Hodgson tenements (Northern Territory).
These latter tenements were acquired in the
Strategic Minerals Plc Annual Report 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
2012 was a year of strong operational development
for Strategic Minerals at the Cobre stockpile,
including the completion of the rail spur upgrade
and the achievement of full production output
from Q4. 
1.57mt
Total magnetite resource at the
Cobre stockpile.
1.77mt
Indicated resource containing
iron (30.2%), silver (11 g/t) and
copper (0.11%) at Iron Glen. 10
Ebony Iron acquisition, which was
completed in particular to acquire the Cobre
tailings asset. Following a detailed review of
these tenements working in conjunction with
the Company’s independent geological mine
consultants, Terra Search, the decision was
taken to rationalise the portfolio by reducing
the Company’s exposure to low-grade,
uneconomic licenses, thereby reducing the
on-going cost of maintaining these non-
prospective assets.
As a result, the Company is in the process of
completing the relinquishment of the Dragon
Rocks tenements back to the state as well
as some of the tenements within the
Hodgson and Roper licenses. Thereafter, the
Company will turn its attention to the
Jotanooka tenements. These moves will
reduce the burden of exploration expenditure
and allow the focus to shift towards
maximising the value of the Iron Glen
property.
Iron Glen remains the Company’s core
exploration prospect. Located approximately
40 kilometres from the deep water Port of
Townsville, the 2,100-hectare tenement has
been subject to extensive magnetic and
geochemical analysis since Strategic
Minerals acquired the exploration permit in
2007. A 45-hole drilling programme has
returned a JORC compliant resource
estimate (Terra Search Pty Ltd) over the Iron-
Silver-Copper deposit. Indicated resources
comprise 1.77 million tonnes of 30.2% iron,
11.0 grams per tonne (g/t) silver and 0.11%
copper. A further 0.15 million tonnes at
19.6% iron is included in the Inferred
category, at a cut-off grade of 0.15% iron. 
Terra Search Pty was commissioned to
conduct exploration on the Iron Glen site in
both 2010 and 2011. The 2010 programme
consisted of 11 reverse circulation
percussion drill holes totaling 1258 metres,
drilled along the north-west strike of the
ground magnetic anomaly, coincident with
the abandoned Iron Glen open pit. The 2011
programme in-filled and marginally extended
the earlier programme. The 2011 drilling
consisted of 34 holes with total drill
meterage of 4452 metres that includes 3648
metres of reverse circulation percussion (RC)
and 804.95 metres of core drilling. 
Total drilling completed at the Iron Glen
polymetallic skarn amounts to 45 holes,
totalling 5710 metres, including 4906 metres
RC and 804.95 metres core.
Geological, geochemical and
geophysical data from these
programmes was utilised to calculate at
Iron Glen resources to JORC standards,
announced on 21 February 2012.
Highlights included:
• Drill indicated resource at 15% cut-off 
confirmed by independent consultants 
as 1.77 million tonnes @ 30.2% Iron (Fe)
• The indicated resource and adjacent 
inferred resource of 0.15 million tonnes 
at 19.6 % Fe resulted in a total 
resource of 1.92 million tonnes @ 
29.3% Iron (Fe), 0.10% Copper (Cu) 
and 10.3g/t Silver (Ag)
• Consultants have estimated through 
preliminary Davis Tube Testwork that 
Iron Glen contains an Inferred in ground
resource of 630,000 tonnes of potential 
magnetite concentrate
• In addition to the drill indicated 
resources referred to above an inferred 
resource of 2.9 million tonnes @ 13.1 g/t 
Ag occurs peripheral to the magnetite 
skarn using a Ag cut-off of 5 g/t Ag
• Total Silver in-situ indicated and 
inferred resource estimate is 4.82 
million tonnes @ 12.0 g/t Ag (1.86 
million ounces) 
• Applying prices as of February 2012 to 
these magnetite and silver resources 
resulted in an estimated in-situ value in 
the order of ~A$140M (this figure is to 
be used as a guide only)
• Separately from the magnetite skarn 
deposit at Iron Glen a silver-lead-zinc 
deposit has been identified 2 kilometres
northwest along strike referred to as the
Lead Belly Prospect.
These results provide a positive platform for
Strategic Minerals to continue to examine
the best way to exploit the asset going
forward.
Strategic Minerals Plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements
11
Test work suggests that Iron Glen contains
an inferred in-situ resource of 630,000
tonnes of potential magnetite concentrate.
The project benefits from good and
improving regional infrastructure. Iron Glen is
10 kilometres west of the main railway line
and the Flanders Highway that connect the
mining/industrial complex of Mt Isa to
Townsville. The deep-water port at
Townsville is less than 40 kilometres from
Iron Glen by rail. A major electricity
transmission line traverses 3 kilometres north
of Iron Glen.
Subject to further resource profiling and
positive economic assessment work, the aim
is to continue project development in
advance of a decision as to how best to
extract value from the asset.
Concluding comments
Strategic Minerals has made significant
progress over the last 12 months, moving
from being a pre-production, cash
consuming business to being soundly
funded and in full-scale commercial
production. Against the challenges being
confronted, in the sector, by traditional
junior exploration companies, Strategic has
now set down a different path, to maximise
the profitability of its first core producing
asset and to continue to identify new
opportunities in the tailings arena. 
Working with major participants in the
global resources sector, the Company has
demonstrated its ability to deliver a quality
product to the market place. Whilst prices
have fluctuated over the last year, and the
market faces some challenges in the near-
term, we expect to see stabilisation in the
magnetite and wider iron ore sector over
the medium-term. Strategic Minerals is well
positioned to take advantage of future
production, acquisition and project
development opportunities.
Paul Harrison
Chief Executive Officer
24 May 2013
Strategic Minerals Plc Annual Report 2012
