 Richard Findlay
Chairman
“ Our commitment to delivering 
high quality public service 
content in innovative ways 
continues to enable us to 
strengthen our relevance and 
connection with audiences.” 
	 F or 	 financial 	 updat e s 	 	
on 	 S TV 	 visit 	www.stvplc.tv
Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 04
Chairman’s Statement
The company has delivered a robust financial performance  
in a year that has been dominated by the challenges of the 
macro-economic environment and the associated impact on 
consumer confidence. We continue to implement rigid cost 
control, whilst investing in key growth areas, to innovate in 
content production and engage with consumers across 
multi-platforms. 
Our results in 2011 demonstrate the increasingly robust  
position of the company and that actions taken in recent years 
to scale the business appropriately are improving underlying 
profitability, despite a slight reduction in turnover . 
Market leader in Scotland 
Profit before tax and exceptional items is £14.0m and earnings 
before exceptional items, tax, depreciation and amortisation  
is £17 .4m. National airtime revenues performed in line with 
expectations, down 3% at £67 .9m. The regional airtime revenue 
market was weaker reflecting the impact of the downturn on  
the Scottish economy and ended down 13% at £12.9m. We do, 
however , continue to be the market leader in the Scottish 
market and, in 2011, we have consolidated our leading edge 
position, through our targeted and strategic investment in the 
key digital initiative, STV Local. As this platform is developed 
with the launch of further sites, we are providing opportunities 
for a new portfolio of advertisers and commercial partners to 
reach their target markets in a cost effective way. 
At the beginning of 2011 we made carefully considered 
organisational changes which have successfully positioned  
the company as a consumer focused content business and of 
course all our services are now delivered via digital platforms, 
broadcast, online and mobile. These services offer our audiences 
various ways in which to connect with us while at the same time 
delivering solutions for advertisers and commercial partners. 
Diversifying our content offering 
Our content business – STV Productions – has continued to 
broaden its activities across genres and extend the customer 
base it supplies during 2011, working with a wider range of 
broadcasters than ever before including a significant pipeline  
of programmes from the BBC. The business enters 2012  
with a strong portfolio of commissions across a wide range  
of channels. 
In April we announced the cessation of legal actions with  
ITV plc and ITV Network and the establishment of a settlement 
agreement which has served to clarify a number of the 
differences between the parties. We continue to work with ITV 
under existing networking agreements and in December we 
confirmed the financial details of the agreement reached with 
ITV whereby we will pay £10.8m over 18 months, all of which is 
provided for within our banking facilities and will be partly offset 
by opt out programme savings in the future. We believe there  05
are better ways of arranging the current network agreements 
and hope that within the improved atmosphere a consensus  
on this will be reached very soon. 
Our commitment to delivering high quality public service 
content in innovative ways continues to enable us to strengthen 
our relevance and connection with audiences. We have made 
significant enhancements to our service during 2011 with the 
introduction of new programmes delivered across our various 
platforms. Investment in new technology allows us to deliver  
a more relevant news service to audiences across Scotland.  
We now provide the most locally focused news and current 
affairs TV services in the UK and we are achieving increased 
audience share and engagement in response. This important 
development differentiates STV from many of our competitors 
at a time when commercial pressures are causing them to 
significantly reduce their commitments and ambitions in  
this area. 
As a leading provider of locally focused services, we welcome 
the Government’s decision to proceed with the introduction  
of local television services and we are participating in the 
consultation exercise to determine the process through which 
licences will be awarded. We believe that such services will  
by their very nature be financially fragile and that the key  
to the success of these licences in Scotland will be to ensure 
that they are complementary to the existing comprehensive 
service provided by STV . 
Digital is in our DNA 
Our digital and online strategy is now firmly embedded across 
STV and this has transformed from being a new business 
venture to a deep rooted core business activity . We have 
delivered a strong performance against our digital KPIs and 
achieved significant year on year revenue growth of 69%.  
As we continue to leverage our investment in content across  
all platforms, I am confident that we will continue to deliver 
further growth and create value across our entire inventory.  
Our strategy is underpinned by a culture of innovation and  
in 2011 we have launched a number of new services and 
introduced new opportunities to grow transactional revenues. 
In addition to our strong public service ethos, we are committed 
to being a good corporate citizen and to give something back  
to the communities we serve. In 2011 we launched the inaugural 
STV Appeal, a major charity run in partnership with The Hunter 
Foundation, initially to support children and young people 
affected by poverty in Scotland. Working closely with six major 
Scottish charities, we raised over £1.2m – including generous 
financial support from the Scottish Government - to underpin 
local projects all across Scotland. We have confirmed our long 
term commitment to the STV Appeal and planning is now 
underway for the 2012 Appeal which will continue to focus  
on youth poverty in Scotland. 
During 2012 the Secretary of State will begin to consider the 
position of the Channel 3 licences which will expire at the end of 
2014. We continue to engage with Ofcom and the Government 
on this matter and believe that the underlying strength of our 
business; the extent of our connection with our audiences; the 
significant positive impact the company makes to the creative 
industries sector in Scotland and our strong commitment to the 
delivery of high quality public service content at a local, regional 
and national level, all serve to demonstrate our unrivalled 
credentials to continue to hold the licences for STV Central  
and STV North in the long term. 
A clear strategy for growth
In our 2011 interim trading update I confirmed our long-term 
strategic vision to be a consumer focused business which will 
generate over one-third of its earnings from non broadcast 
activities by 2015. Through the significant progress already 
achieved this year coupled with our track record in delivery  
of our commitments and targets, evidenced by achieving or 
exceeding the majority of our KPI targets; and a supportive 
board and highly capable leadership team and staff, I am 
confident that we will deliver this goal. 
With a clear strategy for growth mapped out, a strong and 
focused team delivering on our targets, an exciting pipeline  
of programmes both from ourselves and others, together with 
our strong news performance locally, regionally and nationally, 
2012 looks to be another busy and exciting year for STV .
All this would not be possible without our dedicated staff  
and management team led by our chief executive officer ,  
Rob Woodward. My thanks to them and to my board  
colleagues for their achievements over the last year .
Richard Findlay
Chairman Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 06
Chief Executive’s Review
B uilding 	 t omorr o w’ s 	 S TV
A conversation with Rob Woodward 
and Charles McGhee on how 
innovation will deliver performance  
in the changing media landscape
The imposing structure of Glasgow University shimmers in  
the winter sun as STV’s Chief Executive Rob Woodward takes  
in the spectacular view across the Clyde from the company’s 
Pacific Quay headquarters. “Y ou soon won’t be able to see  
that,” he points out as Scotland’s new national arena takes 
shape next to the SECC. 
The impressive ultra-modern addition to Glasgow’s skyline  
will eventually eclipse the view of the ancient university, but 
nothing is obscuring Woodward’s vision for STV as he reflects 
enthusiastically on a year of progress in the face of tough 
trading conditions and against a backdrop of rapid and radical 
change in the media landscape.
“We’re definitely very pleased with the performance of the 
company,” he says allowing himself a faint smile of approval. 
“We’ve increased our underlying operating profit level year  
on year by 4%, and underlying earnings per share have 
increased by 11%. Those are pretty strong indicators, in terms  
of the actions that we continue to take as a management  
team, of our ability to weather any storm in the external 
advertising market.”
Weathering storms has been a regular feature of STV’s voyage 
in recent years – and perhaps even inspired the decision to give 
their popular weather presenter , Sean Batty, his own show – but 
few would question that the company has emerged stronger , 
leaner and fitter from the experience.
For example, STV knew it would suffer from the advertising 
downturn in the last quarter of 2011, but flagged it to the market 
early and dealt with it effectively . Settling its long-running legal 
dispute with the ITV network last year also sent a strong signal 
that STV was back on track. Although the company will have to 
shoulder the £18 million settlement costs over the next few 
years, it removed a major financial uncertainty and, together 
with the new banking deal announced before Christmas, gives 
Woodward and his team the stability they need to execute their 
strategic plans for the future. 
“We were delighted to reach the settlement with ITV ,” said 
Woodward. “What we are focusing on now is agreeing a 
longer-term working relationship. There remains a strong 
opportunity to have a simplified and more commercial 
relationship which would allow us to continue to get sovereign 
access to ITV1 programmes in our territory. And that’s what 
we’re striving to agree.”
Will such an agreement mean an end to dropping ITV 
blockbusters such as the first series of Downton Abbey? 
Woodward insisted however that “blockbusters” tend to be 
defined retrospectively: “Downton Abbey did end up being  
an absolute blockbuster and that’s why we reversed our 
decision. But I would argue strongly – based on audience 
feedback and looking at audience numbers – that the balance 
we’re now achieving feels appropriate.
“We will still opt out of some ITV programming, but by and  
large we will take most of ITV’s peak-time schedule and from 
time to time insert some of our own programming, which is 
what we have been doing consistently over the last three years.”
The ITV relationship will also be dependent, of course, on the 
outcome of the new commercial broadcasting licensing round. 
Ofcom begins consultations this year on the 2014 renewals, but 
the STV Chief Executive remains confident about the renewal  
or extension of STV’s licences as well as a refreshed and 
flourishing future association with ITV . The persistent rumours 
that STV, together with its Northern Ireland equivalent UTV, 
would ultimately be swallowed by the ITV behemoth appear 
finally to have receded, particularly with the political climate 
increasingly favouring the local incumbents.
 “We are confident about our position,” says a buoyant 
Woodward. “We continue to put content at the heart of the 
company. We have over-delivered on most if not all of our 
licence obligations and have been consistent in our commitment 
to provide more, not less, public service. In terms of the licence 
renewal process – given our performance and commitments 
– we believe we are in a very strong position. And that gives us 
confidence in continuing the on-going negotiations with ITV .”
As if to underline the point, he returns to the company’s 
performance figures, rattling off targets successfully met in  07
Rob Woodward
Chief Executive in 
conversation with 
Charles McGhee
“ We continue to put content at the heart  
of the business. We have overdelivered  
on licence obligations and have been 
consistent in our commitment to provide 
more public service content.” Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 08
quick-fire succession. “We’ve ended up performing extremely 
well against our set of operational KPIs. In particular , I’d point 
you towards our digital business. We only just missed one digital 
revenue KPI (by £200k and we set a pretty stiff target), and 
digital margin was only narrowly missed due to investment in STV 
Local. We’ve increased revenues by 69% and any business which 
grows its revenues to this extent is clearly performing well.” 
While accepting the impressive growth may have been from  
a low base, Woodward insists: “We’ve created this business  
from scratch and we are now getting around three million 
unique visitors to our site every month – and that’s continuing  
to grow. That’s nearly a 40% uplift in usage year on year .  
People are flocking to these services.
“The next milestone is to get more people to come for longer ,  
to explore more, to spend more, and to increase the overall  
level of engagement.”
T o help reach that milestone, STV has enlisted the help of 
Experian, the global information services group and one of  
the world’s leading credit reference agencies. The company 
collects detailed information on businesses and individuals, 
including lifestyle data, and Woodward hopes the link with 
Experian will help STV acquire a more intimate understanding  
of its customers.
“We are moving away from talking about audiences – where  
we basically knew very little – to a world where we talk about 
consumers,” he said. “In this world a direct relationship between 
the media company and the end consumer is fundamental, so 
we are using developments online to enable us to capture data 
and build a relationship literally with the individual. 
“I believe this will be very powerful for STV . It will enable us  
to offer advertisers a combination of mass market coverage, 
which is clearly what television has been so strong at over  
the years, but in conjunction with highly-targeted marketing  
and advertising. And it’s that combination which will make  
us distinctive.” 
STV’s distinctive digital offering also includes local, of course, 
and last year STV Local – an online community news and 
information service – was rolled out with high expectation. 
Although that momentum has slowed a little to allow STV  
to re-configure its service to better meet the differing needs  
of Scotland’s larger towns and cities and rural communities,  
the commitment remains solid. 
“We are 100% committed to STV Local,” said Woodward. “It’s 
innovative, nobody else is providing a similar level of service, 
and in around a month’s time we will launch completely 
revamped sites to cover Glasgow and Edinburgh, as well as 
continuing the roll-out across the country (the target is to cover 
80% of Scotland). We believe what we’ve come up with will build 
on our success to date and take STV Local to the next level.”
Other local developments could also be on the horizon. The STV 
chief stressed that “local media excites us” and confirmed they 
are watching closely the UK government’s plans for local 
commercial TV. Although Glasgow and Edinburgh will be among 
the first 20 UK locations to get licences, the STV chief believes 
that until the government publishes its detailed proposals, it is 
too early to assess the full business potential. 
Meanwhile alongside local and digital, STV also wants to be 
distinctive in content, one of the main pillars of its growth 
strategy for 2012; a strategy which includes a target to deliver 
33% of total earnings from non-broadcast activities by the end 
of 2015. This includes selling content to other broadcasters 
through STV Productions and there’s a slight tinge of regret in 
Woodward’s voice as he admits the company would have liked to 
have shown more progress in this area. He quickly counters any 
sense of disappointment, however , by pointing out STV 
Productions has been “transformed”. 
“This was a business that was around 80% reliant on deliveries 
to the ITV network. We’ve now grown a business where we’re 
selling and producing programming for the BBC, for ITV and  
for Channel 4. We also have a joint venture established in the  
US and produced our first programme commission, Perez Hilton 
for ITV2, last year . So, if I look at the pipeline for content then  
we have a lot to give us cause for strong confidence.”
Chief Executive’s Review
B uilding 	 t omorr o w’ s 	 S TV 	 c on tinued
We are moving away from talking 
about audiences to a world  
where we talk about consumers 09
And, as if on cue, the STV boss suddenly reveals: “We will 
shortly be confirming a new two-year deal with the BBC  
to produce another four series of Antiques Road T rip.”  
But Woodward wants to do more, much more right across  
the spectrum, whether it’s breaking new ground with 
productions like F ast Freddie, the festive special for ITV ,  
or resurrecting old favourites such as Scottish Passport. 
He is also pleased with the ratings for STV’s new nightly  
news programme, Scotland T onight, which he claims has  
quickly established an audience double that of BBC rival 
Newsnight Scotland. Its success is in sharp contrast to the 
short-lived weekly version of the magazine programme,  
The Hour. “It just didn’t produce the audience we were 
expecting,” said Woodward. 
One factor which has prevented STV Productions from  
reaching its full potential is STV’s unfulfilled ambition  
to obtain independent producer status says Woodward:  
“It is costing jobs in Scotland and it has an overall negative 
impact on the strength of the Scottish creative sector .  
It’s something we will continue to campaign for .”
As an independent producer , STV would be eligible to bid for 
more commissions from the BBC. At present they are excluded 
from tendering for the 25% of BBC commissions which are 
ring-fenced for independents. Any BBC work STV currently  
bids for therefore has to be won in open competition against  
the independents – and the BBC itself. 
“With independent producer status our ability to sell to the  
BBC would be hugely enhanced,” adds Woodward, “and that  
is why we feel so strongly about it.”
He also feels strongly that governments – at Westminster and 
Holyrood – could do much more to support the creative 
industries. Woodward argues forcefully that only two countries 
in Europe – Germany and the UK – do not provide any form of 
fiscal incentive for television production companies. 
And he points out that even in “free economies, such as the 
United States”, a considerable amount of support is available. 
“My argument is that I believe there is an opportunity for 
Scotland to become a strong creative hub that is recognised  
on a world stage. I think we have the talent here in Scotland,  
but unless there is some kind of fiscal incentive my prediction  
is that it is unlikely to happen.”
In the absence of such incentives, however , STV has been 
pursuing alternative options, including successful strategic 
partnerships, within Scotland’s creative industry sector . These 
have included projects such as Scotland’s Greatest Album  
(with the Scottish Sun and Real Radio) and the STV Appeal  
(with the Hunter Foundation). Other collaborations will almost 
certainly follow. 
Woodward was delighted at the success of the STV Appeal, 
which raised £1.2 million for 48 children’s charity projects in 
Scotland, and confirmed it will be repeated this year in aid of the 
same cause. But he pointed out: “It wasn’t just about the money, 
it was also about us being able to highlight the simply horrific 
story of child poverty in Scotland. T o be able to shine a light on 
initiatives which are really making a difference, to me was just  
as important as the £1.2 million.”
The appeal topped a period of positive progress and helped  
the company end its year on a high, prompting the tongue-in-
cheek suggestion that there is ‘life after T aggart’ for STV,  
to which Woodward responded intriguingly: “T aggart isn’t 
necessarily dead. We continue to look at innovative ways  
of bringing that back.”
Memo to DS Jackie Reid: “The body’s probably hidden in that 
fancy new building across the Clyde. Check it out.”
Media consultant Charles McGhee is a former editor  
of The Herald and Evening Times newspapers.
