 Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 10
Chief Executive’s Review
C onsumer
STV’s growth strategy remains  
clear , with investment in strategic 
partnerships and an ambitious  
digital strategy
From top:
STV News
X F actor
In Search of Bible John
Scotland Debates
Underbelly
Downtown Abbey 	 W a t c h 	 y o u r 	 f a v o u r i t e 	 S T V	
pr ogr amme s 	 on 	 S TV 	 Pla y er	 	
www.stv.tv/player Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 12
Chief Executive’s Review
C onsumer 	 c on tinued
STV is Scotland’s digital media company with an ambitious 
strategy for growth. We have transformed STV from a 
traditional broadcaster to a digital media company that engages 
with consumers across multiple platforms offering a compelling 
range of must-have digital services. 
The creation of innovative, high quality and relevant content 
remains key to our business. We are excited by new 
technological developments that allow us to significantly  
extend our reach, effectively building consumer relationships 
and connecting with communities. We continue to work with 
partners to deliver unique, compelling content that can be 
accessed anywhere, anytime.
Following the transformation of STV and the consistent 
achievement of its growth KPIs, STV set out strategic aims  
to grow non-broadcast earnings from 11% in 2011 to represent 
33% of Group earnings in 2015. This will involve:
 
• Doubling STV Productions’ revenues;
• Becoming the most used digital service in Scotland;
• Launching two new market-leading consumer propositions.
We remain committed to growing a strong, successful and 
dynamic STV, delivering value for shareholders and cementing 
our position as Scotland’s most popular peak time TV station 
and leading commercial website, and as the provider of unique 
digital content.
Consumer
Channels
Through 2011, STV has continued to extend its reach across 
Scotland. We delivered a schedule comprising the best Network 
material and strong home grown productions, alongside our 
dedicated and popular news service. Our average peak time 
audience share tracked ahead of the ITV Network in 2011, 
demonstrating the success of our programming strategy and 
our position as Scotland’s most popular peak-time TV station, 
reaching over 4.2m viewers per month.
Despite the challenging marketplace and a reduction in  
regional advertising revenues; we have exceeded our  
upgraded broadcasting margin target of 15%, demonstrating 
the underlying profitability of the business and the positive 
impact of our relentless focus on cost control and  
operational excellence.
 
We continue to be the market leader in Scotland and we  
have further increased our market share in 2011. This strong 
position is maintained by offering innovative solutions for  
our advertisers. Earlier this year , we restructured the 
commercial team to ensure maximum client focus and 
satisfaction, offering a fully integrated service incorporating 
digital and broadcast opportunities.
Commitment to Public Service Broadcasting
We are fully committed to our Public Service Broadcasting 
(“PSB”) obligations and as well as delivering these via our  
broadcast window we seek to deliver PSB innovatively  
across multi-platforms.
In May 2011 we launched a pilot news service for Edinburgh  
and the East, and confirmed that this would become permanent 
in November 2011, making STV News the most comprehensive 
local news service in the UK, with dedicated programmes  
for the East, West and North of Scotland, alongside a bulletin  
for T ayside.
In October , we increased our commitment to news and current 
affairs with our nightly programme, Scotland T onight, bringing 
viewers an in-depth look at the important news stories of the 
day along with sports, politics, business, art, entertainment,  
live studio guests and special features. The programme also 
engages viewers via social media, allowing them to guide the 
editorial content, interact and comment on the issues raised.
In other programming, we have delivered a range of high quality, 
relevant and exciting programmes for our audience. Scotland’s 
Greatest Album was a truly interactive proposition, delivered in 
partnership with Real Radio and the Scottish Sun, and saw 
viewers voting for their top 12 tracks from Scottish artists over 
the past four decades. The series reached 1.2m people and the 
This is an exciting time for STV,  
with a number of strategic initiatives 
underway and a true connection  
with our audience across platforms 13
	 F o r 	 t h e 	 l a t e s t 	 n e w s	 	
visit 	stv.tv/news
Case Study: STV News
Deliv ering 	 a 	 high 	 qualit y ,	
c ompr ehensiv e 	 and 	 r ele v an t 	 s ervic e
News content is at the heart of STV provision, both on air and online.  
In 2011 we improved this service, embracing new technology and 
committing to a commercially sustainable approach to delivery of  
news across platforms.
STV has a nationwide approach to news provision, offering the  
most comprehensive and local service in the UK. We extended our total 
on-air news offering in 2011 and STV now provides three distinct, dedicated 
and relevant 30 minute programmes at 6pm - one for the East, West and 
North of the country and a separate bulletin for T ayside.
STV is responding to audience demand with investment in STV Local, 
allowing us to engage with communities across the country  
at a hyper local level.
Impact 
• 	 	 Ne w s 	 shar e 	 at 	 6pm 	increased 7% *	
• 	 	 On- air 	 ne w s 	 s ervic e 	 r e ache s 	over  
1.7m viewers 	 per 	 w eek
• 	 	 Ov er 	half a million unique users	 	
visit 	 s t v . t v / ne w s 	 per 	 mon th	
• 	 	 Ov er 	50% 	 o f 	 t r a f fi c 	 t o 	 S T V 	 N e w s	 	
is 	 fr om 	 mobile 	 de vic e s
	 * 	 Y O Y 	 ( June 	 t o 	 Dec ember ) Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 14
collaborative venture attracted 125,000 online votes and  
23,000 new registrations to stv.tv.
One-off documentary, In Search of Bible John, revealed a  
unique new development in the theory linking Bible John to 
Peter T obin and delivered a strong 19% average audience share, 
outperforming the Network by 8 share points. Born Fighting  
was a two-part series following American Senator Jim Webb 
charting the story of the Scots-Irish who helped build one of the 
most powerful nations in the world. This unique collaboration 
between STV , UTV and the Smithsonian Channel in the US is a 
clear example of STV’s commitment to providing high quality 
and relevant public service broadcasting to its audience.
We delivered a second series of our successful Football Y ears 
series, which achieved an average 14% share, with 10,000  
views via catch-up on the STV Player . In addition, we produced  
a two-part Football Y ears: Walter Smith Special, which delivered  
an impressive 20% audience share. Additional related content, 
including STV Player , online and mobile material, increased the 
total audience for the programme by 15%.
At the start of the year , we announced the arrival of our STV+1 
service, allowing viewers to catch up on a range of programmes 
from STV one hour later via two regional variations - one for  
the north and one for central Scotland.
Connecting with audiences
In February 2011 STV launched ScotPulse, an online market 
research panel designed to provide direct access to valuable 
consumer insights. Over 5,500 panel members have been 
recruited. This is supported by a dedicated website –  
www.scotpulse.com – that encourages community and helps  
to deliver higher engagement levels. STV has built a strong 
connection with audiences over the last five decades. ScotPulse 
allows a further enhancement of this relationship by providing 
consumers with the opportunity to have their voice directly 
heard on issues that matter .
We continue the roll-out of our strategic digital initiative,  
STV Local, which allows us to leverage our investment in 
content across multi platforms. This network of hyper-local 
websites, online and on mobile, currently covers 45% of the 
Scottish population by local authority area and presents a 
platform for highly targeted local advertising, allowing us to 
generate revenue from a new advertising community. With sites 
from Motherwell to Peterhead, Edinburgh to Glasgow, there are 
now over 20 sites covered across seven local authorities. The 
launch of STV Local has created a significant number of 
employment opportunities across Scotland, with the current 
editorial team standing at 25.
In 2011 STV , in partnership with The Hunter Foundation, 
launched the STV Appeal – a major new charitable venture for 
Scotland. With support from some of Scotland’s leading Scottish 
businesses and a commitment to match-funding from the 
Scottish Government, the charity in its inaugural year raised 
over £1.2m for children affected by poverty in Scotland. With a 
range of bespoke programming and activities, we successfully 
connected with communities across Scotland to raise funds for 
an excellent cause and we have high hopes for the 2012 Appeal.
STV Creative is our in-house commercial production team. It has 
delivered continued growth, producing award-winning creative 
content for both Scottish based and Network advertising clients, 
including commercials and sponsorship bumpers as part of a full 
offering from creative design to production of the end product. 
The team received two commendations and three awards at the 
2011 Scottish Creative Awards; and a Dadi Award in late 2011.
Digit al
Digital is in our DNA and our investment in new digital services 
is delivering growth for the business. 
Through 2011, we have been consistently building traffic and 
revenue, with 36% growth in unique users year on year and 
69% growth in digital revenue, in line with our targets.
Chief Executive’s Review
C onsumer 	 c on tinued 15
We have exceeded three of our KPIs in this area and only 
narrowly missed our revenue target. The margins target  
was missed due to our investment in STV Local, which  
is demonstrating growth as it rolls out across Scotland.
Our TV-on-demand service, STV Player , allows viewers to catch 
up on their favourite STV programmes and watch highlights 
from our vast archives. STV Player continues to build traffic, 
delivering an average of over 2.9m streams per month in the 
final quarter of 2011.
STV across multi-platforms
Following the success of the STV News iPhone app, STV 
launched its first Android app in August 2011, providing news, 
sport, entertainment and weather . By the end of 2011, the STV 
News app accounted for over 50% of all news traffic. This was 
closely followed by the launch of the STV Player on Android 
devices, making this popular service now available via computer , 
smart phones and PS3.
STV recognises that opportunistic brand extensions of our  
core businesses are key to driving revenues. In January 2011, 
Steven Walker joined the business as Director of Corporate 
Development, with the primary responsibility of growing STV’s 
classified businesses, and has been central to a number of 
initiatives focused on generating additional revenue.
STV Live Casino launched in the summer with technical partner , 
VueT ec, offering users a live, real-time casino experience via 
their computers. During the year we launched Scottishpassport.
com in partnership with Scotland’s leading travel firm, Barrhead 
T ravel. In August, we trialled an exciting new digital venture 
offering locally targeted deals via email called STV Daily Deals. 
This service is being honed at present and will offer a potential 
new customer base for advertisers and exciting new offering  
for consumers.
Gaining consumer insight 
In August, we retained Experian as our Data Partner to help 
build our customer database capability and evolve and deepen 
our relationship with our audience as consumers of STV 
services, which is key to our growth strategy. This is reflected  
in the addition of a new KPI focused on registrations to  
STV’s digital services which targets over half of the Scottish 
population being registered by 2015. Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 16
Chief Executive’s Review
Pr oduction
Creating compelling content and 
diversifying the range of genres  
we produce is key to the growth  
of STV Productions
Antiques Road Trip 
pr oduc ed 	 f or 	 BB C
Born Fighting 
pr oduc ed 	 f or 	 S TV , 	 UTV 	 and 	 Smiths onian 	 Channel 17
Scotland’s Greatest Album
pr oduc ed 	 f or 	 S TV
Fast Freddie, The Widow and Me 
pr oduc ed 	 f or 	 ITV1
Vet School
pr oduc ed 	 f or 	 S TV
Perez Hilton Super Fan 
pr oduc ed 	 f or 	 ITV2 Annual 	 R epor t 	 and 	 A c c oun t s 	 2 011
Directors’ Report – Business Review 18
In August we announced a programming and content partnership 
with GroupM Entertainment, part of GroupM – the world’s leading 
media management investment group, with our first project  
being the successful Perez Hilton series. We aim to deepen our 
relationship with this leading group during 2012.
Five episodes of daytime factual entertainment show, Quiz 
T rippers, were delivered to Channel 4 in July, achieving a 
healthy 10% audience share.
We continue to seek the necessary legislative change to provide 
STV Productions with independent status.
Conclusion
STV has an ambitious plan for growth and our strategy remains 
clear going forward, with investment in strategic partnerships, 
helping extend the STV brand in our core Scottish market  
and beyond. 
We are committed to innovative public service broadcasting  
and the production of creative content across all platforms, 
alongside our ambitious digital strategy, and to delivering 
shareholder value. 
This is an exciting time for STV, with a number of strategic 
initiatives underway and a true connection with our audience, 
we are confident in our position as Scotland’s leading digital 
media company.
Rob Woodward
Chief Executive Officer
STV Productions
Creating compelling content is at the very heart of our business 
and the Productions team is committed to achieving its strategic 
aim of doubling STV Productions’ revenues by 2015. T o achieve 
this, we will continue to successfully diversify the range of 
genres we currently produce and extend our customer base, 
securing commissions in UK and US markets. This strategy 
places us in a strong position as we enter 2012 with a good 
pipeline for commissions and growth. 
2011 saw STV Productions produce programmes for Channel 4, 
ITV1, ITV2 and BBC2; and saw the further development of our 
ambitions to expand internationally. 
The impact of the economic downturn on the programming 
budgets of broadcasters has resulted in our Productions  
KPIs being missed in 2011.
Our daytime series Antiques Road T rip continues to be a  
ratings success for BBC2 and we have recently announced  
a two-year deal for a further four series, which clearly 
exemplifies the success of this production, and is valuable 
returning business for STV . Secondary sales have also been 
successful with the series now airing on Discovery.
Our drama department continues to develop productions for 
various broadcasters. A key commission for 2011 was 90-minute 
film, F ast Freddie, The Widow and Me, for ITV1 which aired on  
27 December and attracted a consolidated audience of over  
5 million. 
Our strategic partnership with Kinetic Content in the US saw  
us working together with the LA-based production company  
to develop a format, Perez Hilton Super F an. This became  
a four-part series commissioned by ITV2 and co-produced  
by GroupM Entertainment, and featured international stars  
Lady Gaga, Kelly Rowland, Katy Perry and Enrique Iglesias.  
We also developed a pilot entitled The Kids Aren’t Alright  
with Kinetic for a US broadcaster .
Chief Executive’s Review
Pr oduction 	 c on tinued 19
2010/11 Revenue
75% of revenue from a  
range of broadcasters.
2009/10 Revenue
ITV 79%
Other 21%
 
2010/11 Revenue
ITV 25%
Other 75%
Case Study: STV Productions
Div er sif ying 	 the 	 r ange 	 o f 	 c on t en t	 	
and 	 mark e t 	 w e 	 supply
Our Content business is transforming as we continue to diversify  
our revenues away from our historic dependence on ITV to becoming  
a more balanced provider of programming to UK and international 
broadcasters, firmly establishing STV Productions as a substantial 
content producer . 
Working in partnership has also been key to growth in this area and  
2011 has seen us working with GroupM Entertainment and US based 
Kinetic Content on projects, including Perez Hilton Super F an for ITV2.
Impact 
•	 	 Commissions secured 	 f o r 	 B B C 2 , 	 I T V 1 ,	 	
I T V 2 	 C h a n n e l 	 4 , 	 S k y 	 R e a l 	 L i v e s 	 a n d	 	
C r i m e 	 & 	 I n v e s t i g a t i o n 	 N e t w o r k	
•	 	 S uc c e s s ful 	returning business 	 f r o m 	 t h e	 	
BBC 	 w i t h 	 A n t i q u e s 	 R o a d 	 T r i p 	 ( e i g h t 	 s e r i e s	
c o m m i s s i o n s 	 f o r 	 d a y t i m e )	
•	 	 First production 	 f or 	ITV2 	 d e l i v e r e d	 	
in 	 2 011 	 via 	 p ar tner ship 	 de als
2009/10 Revenue
ITV 79%
Other 21%
 
2010/11 Revenue
ITV 25%
Other 75%
