 Chairman’s Statement
“ With a strong identity and clarity  
of vision we are delivering an 
entertaining and relevant schedule.”
 F or financial updates  
on STV visit www.stvplc.tv
Last year I reported that I believed 2010 
would be a year of considerable change  
and that has certainly been the case both 
within the company and externally . Despite 
the economic environment we have 
produced a very good financial result 
against a backdrop of improved national 
revenues and rigid cost control.
Operating profit before tax and  
exceptional items is £14.4m and earnings 
before exceptional items, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation is £16.9m. National 
airtime revenue performed particularly  
well with growth of 21% year-on-year ,  
while regionally, within Scotland, the  
pace of economic recovery was slower  
and revenue was flat year-on-year ,  
however , we continued to dominate  
the Scottish marketplace. 
Once again our Chief Executive,  
Rob Woodward, has aligned his interests 
with that of shareholders. Shareholders  
will recollect that last year (2009) he and 
his colleagues voluntarily reduced their 
salaries. This year he has proposed that  
the performance related bonus he has 
earned in 2010 should be deferred,  
subject to future performance, for up to  
24 months and payable wholly in shares. 
Our share price is now beginning to  
reflect the new STV and given the strong 
base that has now been established there  
is scope for further value to be created.
The disposal of Pearl & Dean was 
completed and the general improvement  
in stock market prices had a beneficial 
effect on the pension deficit.
We are committed to delivering high  
quality public service content and we  
have continued to enhance this through 
the introduction of new platforms and the 
launch of STV Local. While much has been 
made in the press about our decisions to 
opt out of some Network programmes in 
favour of our own produced or acquired 
content, the fact is that viewers have 
responded well, as demonstrated by the 
increase in our audience share against 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report – Business Review  Whilst we recognise that changes to the 
television market, including increased 
competition, the growth of online 
advertising and sales house consolidation, 
make a review of CRR timely, any relaxation 
of this mechanism must take account  
of the need to ensure that the Merger 
Undertakings put in place to protect the 
interests of the non-consolidated Channel 3 
licensees are not disregarded.
During 2010, we confirmed our investment 
in MirriAd Limited, the market leader in 
digital product placement. As both a content 
maker and national broadcaster offering 
solutions to advertisers, MirriAd’s products 
and processes are of great value to STV as 
the rules on product placement are relaxed. 
During 2010 we contributed to the 
consultation process undertaken by Ofcom 
into the rules governing television airtime 
sales and airtime minutage quotas and, 
whilst there is no decision expected on 
these imminently, we will continue to 
engage with the regulator on this matter .
So, having achieved or exceeded the 
majority of our 2010 KPI targets we can 
look forward to 2011 with confidence and 
excitement. STV is a company with a 
focused view on its direction of travel  
and has the team in place to achieve  
our 2011 ambitions.
None of the achievements of the company 
would have been possible without a strong 
and supportive board, a visionary Chief 
Executive Officer and motivated staff.  
My thanks go to all of them for their 
extraordinary achievements.
Richard Findlay
Chairman
Channel 3 itself across the all important 
peak period. Having said that, 95% of  
our programmes are from the Network,  
to which we pay a considerable sum of 
money, but we are always mindful that we 
are a Scottish based service, independent 
of ITV , and have a clear responsibility to 
produce a balanced schedule relevant for 
audiences in Scotland.
Our digital strategy is firmly on track  
and we have exceeded our stretching  
KPI targets in relation to digital audience 
growth. Our traffic and audience levels 
have surpassed the targets we set for 2012 
and as a result we have set new higher 
targets for 2011. During the course of the 
year we were delighted to have been voted 
the best commercial catch-up site in the 
UK. This is an achievement we are 
particularly proud of given the financial 
resources of the competing platforms 
developed by our competitors. Our dedicated 
Y ouTube channel is delivering extremely 
strong month-on-month growth in video 
streams and we have achieved 2.2m unique 
users per month, exceeding our target of 
1.7m, up 129% on the same time last year . 
We have now exceeded our KPI target  
of one million video streams per month 
demonstrating the value placed on  
our content.
As other mainstream media reduce 
services to local marketplaces through 
cutbacks, increased syndication and 
consolidation, we have taken a contrary 
view, seeing a service and commercial 
opportunity with the development of STV 
Local. We piloted this project in one of the 
more difficult geographical areas for media 
and have been so encouraged by the 
results that we are swiftly rolling out the 
concept to other parts of the country .
Our ability to generate audiences and 
revenues for our content across different 
platforms is now firmly established adding 
real substance and strength to our position 
as Scotland’s digital media company .
The decision not to proceed with the 
piloting of Independently Funded News 
Consortiums by the new coalition 
Government was widely expected. We did 
not stand still, however , and immediately 
began to consider a range of options to 
develop a sustainable solution that would 
allow us to continue to deliver high quality 
news content across Scotland. In early  
2011 we announced the launch of a pilot  
to trial the delivery of an enhanced and 
more locally focused news service.  
This combined with our investment in  
STV Local, demonstrates our continuing 
commitment to provide high quality  
public service content.
We believe that the Government’s decision 
that STV Productions should not be 
granted independent production status  
is not conducive to supporting the growth 
of the wider production sector in Scotland.  
We will continue to push for the necessary 
change of mind to achieve this status, 
however , regardless of this, our content 
team continue to grow commissions from  
other broadcasters, including the BBC, 
providing clear evidence of its capability 
and creativity .
 
The litigation involving ITV will be heard  
in court during the course of 2011 and 2012 
and, while we have always regretted being 
forced to take the defensive action we 
have, we are confident that our position  
will prove to have been properly justified.
Our marketplace is highly regulated and  
we anticipate further changes in this area  
in the forthcoming year . We are confident  
in our ability to respond positively and 
embrace regulatory changes. Most 
significant are the opportunities presented 
by an increased commitment to supporting 
the growth of locally focused media 
services and the investment in high speed 
broadband infrastructure, enabling 
enhanced access to our content for 
audiences across all platforms. 
05
