 The media landscape has continued to 
evolve at a rapid pace in 2010 and we have 
demonstrated our ability organisationally 
and culturally to respond to this increasing 
pace of change and exploit opportunities  
to grow revenues and audiences. 
We are a flexible, nimble and focused 
organisation, able to respond rapidly to 
changing market conditions, audience 
requirements and media consumption 
patterns. Through targeted investment,  
we have successfully strengthened the 
business during 2010 augmenting our 
position as Scotland’s digital media company .
Chief Executive’s Review
Scotland’s Digital Media Company
We are a flexible, nimble and 
focused organisation, able to 
respond rapidly to changing 
market conditions
 Broadcasting page 10  
Content page 14 Ventures page 18
STV is Scotland’s digital media company.  
In 2010, we have secured this position 
through the growth of audiences across  
an increasing range of channels and 
platforms. We have stabilised the core 
business, demonstrating the robustness of 
this through the testing market conditions 
we have responded to in the past year .  
We have completed the disposal of non-core 
activities and our digital strategy is firmly 
established.
We are committed to creating and delivering 
high-quality, relevant and entertaining 
content to our audiences across all 
platforms and, through this relationship, 
providing new and innovative commercial 
opportunities for our advertisers and 
sponsors to target their customers.
STV is a transformed business with the 
disposal of non-core assets completed;  
debt levels significantly reduced and the 
cost base of the business tightly managed. 
We have built in resilience to our business 
that has enabled STV to remain profitable 
through the dramatic downturn in 
advertising revenues whilst continuing  
to make targeted strategic investments  
in key growth areas for the future.
 
Through the successful implementation of 
our digital strategy and our programming 
strategy, we have continued to deepen and 
strengthen relationships with our two key 
stakeholder groups: our audiences and  
our advertisers.
09 Broadcasting is the bedrock of  
our business and brand, it gives us  
the visability and trust to connect  
with our audiences and advertisers 
 Watch your favourite STV 
programmes on STV Player  
www.stv.tv/player
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Broadcasting
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report – Business Review  Left to right, from top:
Underbelly
Postcode Challenge
X F actor
Scots at War
Champions League
Coronation Street
The Hour
T aggart
Politics Now
Vet School
11 We’ve got it covered - from international 
news now available on our STV iPhone  
app, to all that is happening in your 
neighbourhood via STV local
During 2010 we have continued to extend 
our reach through the development of new 
platforms and channels and providing our 
audiences with an increased choice in the 
way that they can access our compelling 
content. These include an HD service; 
further enhancement of our VOD service 
through the highly commended STV Player; 
new digital channels, including an STV 
Y ouT ube channel and the launch of mobile 
applications such as the STV Jobs and  
STV News iPhone apps. The STV Player  
is also available as a public beta on the 
PlayStation 3.
We have delivered against all of our 
Broadcasting KPI targets, with the key 
metrics of audience share versus the 
Network and the broadcast margin 
exceeded, the latter highlighting the 
sustained upturn in advertising revenue. 
This is a tremendous achievement given 
the macro-economic backdrop, particularly 
in the early part of the year .
We continue to hold the position as 
Scotland’s most popular peak time 
television station, reaching 4.2 million 
viewers every month. During 2010 our 
primary digital channel, www.stv .tv,  
secured the position of Scotland’s most 
popular commercial website attracting over 
2.2 million unique users every month in Q4.
2010 marked the first full year of the 
implementation of our programming 
strategy, designed to engage our audiences 
through a varied, relevant and entertaining 
 T o download our free STV iPhone 
app visit www.stv.tv/news and follow 
the easy instructions.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Broadcasting continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report – Business Review  schedule. This approach has proved to be 
highly successful, delivering a peak time 
audience share in excess of the ITV 
Network demonstrating our pre-eminence 
as Scotland’s leading media brand. 
We have successfully expanded our 
audience profile through the inclusion  
of specific programming to target key 
demographic groups for advertisers.
Our schedule has been delivered with over 
95% Network content and the acquisition 
of programming targeted to address the 
viewing preferences of our audiences.  
Early in 2010 we broadcast the hard-hitting 
drama, Underbelly, rating as STV’s most 
popular acquired series. The series also 
attracted over a quarter of a million video 
plays on the STV Player and a third series 
has been acquired for broadcast during 2011.
We have also continued to grow our  
share of the Scottish market place despite 
a slower pace of recovery in this region. 
We have continued to offer a wide variety 
of high profile broadcast sponsorship 
campaigns, allowing brands to feature their 
brand logo and commercial messages in 
and around key programming guaranteeing 
sponsors a prime position and maximum 
visibility across a mass viewing audience.
Our in-house commercial production  
team, STV Creative, has delivered 
continued growth producing winning 
creative content for Scottish based and 
Network advertising clients. The work of 
the team has continued to expand into  
the development of new advertising 
solutions for our clients including the 
production of regional and Network 
sponsorship campaigns and short-form 
editorial content and provides our clients 
with a full service commercial offering.
We continue to develop innovative 
solutions for our advertisers. During 2010 
we launched our Social Marketing initiative. 
This new approach offers innovative and 
flexible solutions for private and public 
sector organisations to expand upon 
broadcast advertising by offering a full 
range of innovative STV services, including 
microsites, sponsorship, online advertising, 
PR, marketing and social media.
Our commitment to delivering high quality 
news services to our audiences on-air and 
online has continued during 2010. 
We have achieved a year-on-year increase 
in traffic to our online news content 
through the combination of our news 
gathering resources located at our news 
centres across Scotland and our 
investment in hyper local news services 
through STV Local. This will deliver an 
increased level of local news provision 
unrivalled by any other provider in the UK.
In early 2011 we will pilot a new service 
which, if proven, will enable us to enhance 
the extent to which we deliver local news 
using a new broadcast technology platform.
 T o discover and share your … 
local news, sport, weather reviews,  
events, announcements, places and 
community visit www.stv.tv/local
The news journey
of the Scottish population  
watch STV News on STV at  
least once a week
=
stv.tv news online 
STV’s iPhone app 
STV News at Six
STV Local – local news  
from where you live 
over
55%
13 Creating and delivering 
great content is at the 
heart of everything we do
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Content
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report – Business Review 
Missing Mums 
produced for
Being Victor 
co-produced with
Postcode Challenge 
sponsored by
In Search of Burke and Hare 
produced for
Taggart 
co-produced for
Antiques Road Trip 
produced for
Pink Saris 
produced for
Jack Nicklaus’s  
Greatest Open Course 
sponsored by  During 2010, STV Productions has achieved 
success in winning commissions from an 
increasing range of broadcasters, including 
Living, Sky Real Lives, BBC and ITV. 
Significantly we received our first series 
commission and re-commission from the 
BBC, Antiques Road T rip for BBC2, which 
achieved a higher-than-average audience 
share for the channel.
In early 2010 we secured the first  
co-commission of the UK’s longest running 
crime drama, T aggart, through an innovative 
deal with ITV and UKTV . This series was 
filmed for the first time in HD and through 
a first run window on STV achieved a  
33% audience share, outperforming  
the alternative drama programming on  
the Network.
The impact of the economic downturn on 
the programming budgets of broadcasters 
resulted in our target for the value of 
external commissions being missed, 
however , we have continued to deliver 
year-on-year growth of 25%. The key 
financial metric of margin was delivered 
and we are confident of our strong position 
as we enter 2011.
We have set out our ambitions to expand 
internationally and a highlight of 2010  
was the partnership formed between STV 
Productions and US production company, 
Kinetic Content. This innovative format 
deal, which allows the companies to 
exclusively license each others original 
formats in their respective countries, was 
We have successfully 
broadened our customer base
A highlight of 2010 was the 
partnership formed between 
STV Productions and  
US production company, 
Kinetic Content
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Content continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report – Business Review  confirmed in July 2010. All formats owned 
and controlled by STV, including existing 
and newly developed formats from its 
production companies STV Productions 
and Ginger Productions, are now available 
to Kinetic Content to co-produce with  
STV in the USA. Similarly, STV holds the 
exclusive UK rights to co-produce formats 
developed and owned by Kinetic Content. 
The two companies work closely together 
to develop brand-new formats to be pitched 
to broadcasters both in the UK and the US. 
This deal provided STV with a targeted  
and cost effective means of accessing US 
broadcasters, and similarly opened up  
the UK market to formats developed  
and owned by Kinetic Content.
We continued to strengthen our creative 
team and earlier in the year we were 
delighted to confirm the appointment of 
Liam Hamilton as Deputy Director of 
Content. Liam will support the expansion of 
STV Productions and the re-focusing of the 
Ginger Productions brand to concentrate 
on developing entertainment formats.
Whilst we are disappointed at the decision 
taken by DCMS not to award independent 
production status to the business we will 
continue to seek to obtain the necessary 
legislative change to provide this status. 
Our KPI targets do not assume that will  
be granted this change.
In late 2010 it was confirmed that television 
rights distributor DRG now exclusively 
represents STV Productions and Ginger 
Productions international distribution 
rights. DRG promotes the two production 
companies to the worldwide market  
under the newly created brand name,  
STV International. The extensive 2,000 
hour STV International programming 
catalogue includes T aggart and an array  
of high-profile factual content. The deal 
additionally incorporates a new co-funding 
and development partnership between  
the two companies. 
The Hour, the only daily live TV magazine 
show broadcast outside of London, went 
from strength to strength in 2010 and 
attracted top stars such as Westlife, John 
Barrowman and Julian Clary. The Hour 
regularly outperforms Channel 4, Five and 
BBC Two, is closing the gap on BBC One,  
in that slot, and regularly attracts up to  
a million viewers a week.
17  Wherever you are  
visit www.stv.tv
 Visit your local STV site to find  
out everything that’s going on in  
your community www.stv.tv/local
Delivering revenue growth,  
developing new platforms and
identifying opportunities to take  
STV content to new audiences
 Get your latest sports news  
from our STV iPhone app
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Ventures
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report – Business Review   T o watch your favourite  
STV shows on Y ouTube visit  
www.youtube.com/stvplayer 
 Go to www.stvjobs.com for  
thousands of Scottish jobs
19 Through innovation in production  
and platform development we are  
reaching new audiences
 STV Anywhere – making our  
content available to audiences 
wherever and however they  
want to consume it
In 2010, we have delivered digital growth, 
successfully built audiences and traffic, 
launched new initiatives and invested in 
digital distribution to create new platforms 
and grow digital revenues. We have delivered 
against our stretching KPIs in this key 
growth area of the business and, on the 
strength of this over-achievement of our 
targets, we have increased our targets  
for 2011 and 2012.
We have exceeded three of our KPIs in this 
area relating to traffic demonstrating that 
we have established a valuable, content 
rich, must visit proposition and securing 
the position of stv .tv as the most popular 
commercial website in our marketplace.
We are firmly established as Scotland’s 
digital media company. As part of our 
digital strategy we have created STV 
Anywhere, our commitment to making our 
content available to audiences wherever , 
whenever and however they want to 
consume it. For our advertisers, this is 
creating new and innovative opportunities 
for brand development and targeting  
of marketing activities enabling them  
to improve their return on investment  
in advertising.
In early 2010, we launched our first iPhone 
app, providing users with instant access  
to the latest news, sport and high quality 
video reports on their mobile phones. The 
free STV News app, which has now been 
downloaded over 80,000 times to date, 
allows users across the globe to access  
STV branded news content.
A cornerstone of our digital strategy is  
the successful launch of STV Local during 
the latter part of 2010. Leveraging our 
investment in our content and through  
the formation of relationships with 
communities across Scotland, these  
sites will feature news and information 
from a range of sources, making STV  
Local a highly interactive experience and 
offering a platform for users to inform, 
discover and share everything that is 
relevant to their community. This is a 
commercial service with display, classified 
and video advertising and is a natural 
extension of public service content in  
a digital environment.
We are encouraged by the early level  
of positive audience engagement and 
interest from our advertisers and content 
partners in the STV Local platform. By  
the end of 2010, our service covers 25%  
of the Scottish population by local authority 
area and we will continue to implement  
our ambitious programme of roll-out of 
local sites during 2011 with Edinburgh  
sites being launched during February.
T o support us in the execution of STV Local 
we have recruited a highly skilled team of 
editorial staff and as roll-out continues we 
will recruit community embedded editors 
creating new employment opportunities 
across Scotland.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Ventures continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report – Business Review   For information on  
STV HD visit www.stv.tv/stvhd 
Our TV-on-demand service, STV Player , 
provides our viewers with the ability to catch 
up on their favourite STV programmes and 
watch highlights from the vast STV archives 
and it continues to build traffic delivering 
an average of over one million video plays 
per month during the final quarter of 2010. 
In September 2010, digital consultants 
Webcredible rated the STV Player second 
only to the BBC’s iPlayer , and ahead of  
all other commercial channels’ services  
– a fantastic endorsement of our digital 
development capabilities particularly given 
the system was developed entirely in-house 
and on a modest budget.
In June, we announced a major content 
deal with Google making over 2.500 hours 
of content, both new and archive, available 
for viewing via the Y ouTube video sharing 
website across the UK and internationally. 
Advertiser supported content is delivered 
free of charge and on demand.
Our digital roadmap addresses the 
anticipated increase in mobile web 
consumption of content and increasing 
expectation of consumers for known and 
trusted brands to be available on mobile 
platforms. This demand will be met through 
further plans for our content to be made 
available on an increasing range of 
connected devices, including PS3 and Wii, 
allowing our digital audiences to enjoy 
broadband-delivered STV content on their 
TV screens. Y ouView (formerly Project 
Canvas), due to launch in 2011 will provide 
further convergence for broadcast and 
broadband services and STV is working  
to capitalise fully on this.
We continue to embrace technological 
developments to enhance our viewer 
experience and foster audience 
engagement and have developed a split 
screen application that enables viewers to 
chat and comment on major programming 
events such as the World Cup and X-F actor 
on their PC screens alongside live video 
feed of STV output.
Our online classified business site,  
STV Jobs, has been further developed  
to continue to improve the functionality  
of this service through the introduction  
a number of market leading innovations, 
including the launch of an iPhone app  
and CV Magnet, STV Jobs’ own  
CV database.
We have ambitious plans to grow our 
classified business during 2011, through 
exploiting the STV Local platform to  
unlock local classified revenues. 
Rob Woodward
Chief Executive Officer
Building Platforms
STV 
anywhere
=
extending VOD content  
across platforms
providing over 2,500 hours  
of STV content in UK  
and internationally
delivering news and information  
services and providing a platform  
for community engagement
delivering Scotland’s most  
popular peak time schedule  
in HD quality
21
