 OBSERVATIONS
2012 Summary
2012 was an encouraging year in terms 
of both profit and earnings per share. 
The Group successfully delivered a 20% 
increase in operating profit and a fivefold 
rise in EPS. Importantly, these results 
were accompanied by an increase in 
gross margin to 8.7%, a positive 
endorsement of the Group’s strategy  
for profitable growth. 
A selective approach to new business 
opportunities has helped establish 
successful relationships and reference 
projects in our new strategic sectors. 
Consolidation of our position as a top 
performer on frameworks in the banking 
sector supports sustainable revenue 
streams, where we have provisionally 
been allocated £50m of work for 2013. 
Our organisational structure, operating 
platform and management systems have 
been developed to better support 
enhanced business performance and 
create a more efficient overhead base. 
Whilst revenue is slightly below the prior 
year, we successfully secured and 
delivered £35m of project work for new 
customers during 2012 and built a carry 
through project workload of another 
£15m for 2013. 
Challenges and  
Opportunities for 2013 
There is substantive opportunity to pursue 
growth in our selected strategic sectors. 
More importantly, the opportunity also 
exists to leverage our integrated approach 
to the provision of property support 
services to provide a point of difference 
within our peer group. It is important to 
ensure that we continue to perform not 
only to the best of our abilities, but also 
perform competitively against our peers  
in order to provide a sound basis for 
tender success and framework allocation. 
We will give consideration to further 
diversification within 2013, including 
developing our renewable energy offer. 
This will continue to alleviate some of 
the volatility associated with the retail 
sector and negative shifts in the 
overarching economy. 
New Reporting Segments
The strategy to expand into new sectors 
where our skills sets are relevant has 
also promoted a shift in the nature of our 
workload. Over 70% of our revenue in 
2012 was associated with repeat order 
customers, down from over 80% in 
2011. In excess of 57% of 2012 revenue 
was allocated through longer-term 
framework arrangements (2011: 64%). 
Our reporting segments reflect this 
changing business landscape with a 
clear focus on, for the main part, the 
provision of property support services. 
This includes professional, refit, refurbish 
and remodel together, with an associated 
element of contracting services. 
New customer 
projects
£35m
16 Styles&Wood Group plc
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Review
+ “ I can report a 
20% increase in 
operating profit 
and a fivefold 
rise in EPS...” 
Tony Leneham 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Key Sectors for Growth
The market dynamics created by 
recession, constrained capital investment 
and little or no economic growth, 
establishes a prerequisite for property 
owners and occupiers to reconsider  
their options and requirements. 
The associated changes to property 
estates and buildings, coupled with  
other influences such as a necessity for 
business performance improvement, a 
challenging cost base, carbon emissions 
and energy related constraints drive 
change programmes on a broad front.  
As a consequence, a significant challenge 
is created for property support services 
providers to achieve more with less and  
to assist in the redefinition of property 
infrastructure fit for a new purpose. 
Growth opportunity has been identified  
in each of our strategic sectors and 
associated segments within which we 
have successfully established reference  
points which will reinforce our ambitions 
for sustainable profitable growth.
Outlook
The order book position for 2013 was in 
excess of 10% ahead of prior year at 
week 15. Stronger revenue in the first 
quarter of 2013 relative to 2012 builds 
confidence for the future notwithstanding 
challenging market conditions which 
have put pressure on margins and have 
reduced recent order intake. The Group’s 
successful diversification strategy has 
provided a more resilient platform with 
21% of revenue in 2012 coming  
from new strategic sectors. Growth 
opportunity is now clearly defined in  
all of our primary areas of focus:
Public & Community – lack of new 
capital spend and revenue constraints 
drives rationalisation and refurbishment 
of existing estates including requirement  
for green energy solutions 
Retail & Leisure – niche brands 
outperforming and food retailers 
investing in refresh and refit of existing 
premises and expanding interests in 
smaller formats 
Commercial – lack of new space 
programmed to be released to market 
drives investment in existing buildings 
and refurbishment opportunities in 
particular in London
Banking & Finance – committed capital 
investment programmes for property 
portfolios, in the short to medium term, 
defined by all three of the major high 
street banks with which we have 
strategic relationships.
Our ability to deliver a full service  
line offer to a number of customers,  
in particular Barclays and Lloyds  
Banking Group, underscores the 
relevance of our business model  
and an ability to differentiate ourselves. 
We are now in a position where we  
have a strategically relevant portfolio  
of business opportunity across a  
number of sectors and segments  
which provides a solid foundation  
for sustainable profitable growth.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 > BUSINESS REVIEW Styles&Wood Group plc 17
+
