 06 VASTox	 plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
V ASTox	 has	 made	 excellent	 progress	 	 during	 the	 past	 18	 months	 executing	 on	 	 its	 dual	 strategy	 of	 discovering	 and	 developing	 	 proprietary	 new	 drugs	 and	 providing	 	 profitable	 drug	 discovery	 services	 to	 the	 	 pharmaceutical	 industry.
A	 number	 of	 defining	 events	 that	 have	 happened	 during	 the	 past	 18	 months	 have	 put	 VASTox	 in	 a	 strong	 position	 	 to	 maximise	 the	 benefits	 of	 its	 unique	 approach	 to	 create	 significant	 value	 	 for	 shareholders.
The	 key	 events	 of	 the	 period	 include:
Progress	 in	 all	 proprietary	 programmes,	 including:
Duchenne	 muscular	 dystrophy:	 Preclinical	 candidate	 selected	 	 in	 May	 2007	 and	 EMEA	 Orphan	 Drug	 designation	 granted	 to	 programme
Spinal	 muscular	 atrophy:	 compounds	 identified	 with	 in vivo	 activity
Tuberculosis:	 compounds	 identified	 that	 kill	 Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis
Achieving	 excellent	 performance	 	 of	 the	 pharmaceutical	 services	 business	 with	 revenues	 nearly	 doubling	 to	 £1	 million	 The	 creation	 of	 a	 high-quality	 executive	 management	 team	 and	 Board	 of	 Directors	 with	 experience	 and	 enthusiasm	 to	 drive	 the	 Company’s	 future	 growth
Acquisitions	 of	 DanioLabs	 Ltd,	 Dextra	 Laboratories	 Ltd	 and	 the	 key	 assets	 of	 MNL	 Pharma	 Ltd	 to	 accelerate	 the	 Company’s	 strategy	 and	 development	 in	 all	 areas	 of	 	 its	 business.	 •
•
•
•
•
•
•
Transforming	 VASTox
The acquisitions VASTox has made  
during 2006/07 are a synergistic fit with 
our existing drug programmes, drug 
discovery and development expertise  
and significantly, provide us with world 
leadership in two drug discovery platform 
technologies. Additionally, we benefit from 
an immediate, positive impact on revenues 
and an expanded customer base. 
The addition of DanioLabs both broadens 
our drug discovery pipeline and creates 
the largest and most sophisticated 
zebrafish chemical genomics platform  
in the world. Dextra and MNL Pharma 
both bring differentiating carbohydrate 
chemistry expertise and make us world 
leaders in this emerging and exciting area 
of drug discovery.
A key focus of the management team in 
the coming months is to ensure the rapid 
integration of the acquired businesses 
such that VASTox can capitalise on the 
enhanced capabilities and efficiencies  
of the enlarged Group.
As a consequence of the year’s 
activities, we are proposing to change 
the Company’s name from VASTox plc  
to Summit plc (subject to shareholder 
approval at the Company’s AGM on  
19 July 2007). The Board believes that  
a new identity is required to truly reflect 
the aspirations of the new enlarged 
business. VASTox as a name 
represented the origins of the Company 
but it refers to only one aspect of our 
business: zebrafish toxicology services. 
While this technology is still an important 
part of out business, we felt the 
Company has outgrown this name,  
and has also become misleading with 
commercial clients. The proposed new 
name and identity presents not only a 
more mature corporate image but also 
provides the flexibility for the Company 
to grow and develop, which is essential in 
meeting the future needs of our business.
Enhancing	 our	 drug	 pipeline	 As mentioned earlier, an important result 
of this corporate activity has been to 
broaden and enhance the Company’s 
drug discovery and development 
pipeline. Through progress made in our 
existing drug discovery programmes and 
the new programmes acquired following 
the deals with DanioLabs and MNL 
Pharma, VASTox now has an exciting 
portfolio of clinical, preclinical and 
discovery stage drug candidates across  
a range of serious diseases with a high 
unmet medical need. 
While our drug programmes span a range 
of therapeutic areas, our core focus is on 
discovering and developing new therapies 
targeting neuro-disorders and infectious 
diseases. We have focused on these 
specific therapeutic areas as we believe 
we have differentiating expertise based  
on our scientific knowledge in these areas, 
through our key staff, scientific advisors, 
founders and collaborators. It is our 
intention to invest in the infrastructure of 
these programmes with the objective of 
developing them to the optimal stage prior to 
seeking attractive partnering opportunities.
The depth of our drug pipeline combined 
with our approach towards partnering 
deals is anticipated to improve for our 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Dr Steven Lee PROGRAMMES
TECHNOLOGY  
PLATFORMS
MEDIUM/LONGER 
TERM VALUE
IMMEDIATE VALUE
VASTOX BUSINESS “ENGINE”
Assess
 Identify
 Add Value Generate revenues
6-12 MONTH 
TARGET
Create
 Acquire
07 vastox.com
investors the risk-reward ratio 
traditionally associated with biotech 
companies as it is VASTox’s intention to 
seek early and mid stage deals in many 
programmes before they enter pivotal 
and costly Phase III clinical trials.
Core	 programmes
During the year, VASTox has increased 
its interest and expertise in the area of 
neuro-disorders and now has a range  
of clinical and preclinical programmes  
in this area. 
VASTox has two candidates in Phase I 
clinical trials for treating neurodegenerative 
symptoms associated with Parkinson’s 
disease. These were acquired from 
DanioLabs. The first programme is 
focused on sialorrhoea (excessive saliva 
production) and is expected to advance 
into Phase II clinical trials by the second 
half of 2007. The second clinical 
candidate targets seborrhoea, which 
results in Parkinson’s patients suffering 
from poor skin conditions, and this 
programme is expected to move into 
Phase II clinical trials during the second 
half of 2008. VASTox also anticipates  
this programme to find value in the  
multi-million pound acne market.
In addition, exciting progress has been 
made in the discovery programme 
targeting the fatal neuromuscular 
disease, Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
and in May 2007 this led to the selection 
of a lead candidate, VOX C1100, to 
advance into preclinical development. 
Earlier investigations leading to this 
significant achievement have been 
supported through the raising of  
£10.4 million in February 2006.
Based on this progress, the European 
Medicines Agency (EMEA) will grant 
Orphan Drug status to any clinical 
candidates to emerge from the 
programme. This designation will allow 
VASTox to fast-track any candidates 
through the clinical stages of 
development, which will reduce costs 
and accelerate the time taken for a 
desperately needed drug to reach 
the market.
Our discovery programme targeting  
the rare genetic neuromuscular disorder 
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is also 
making excellent progress. SMA is the 
leading genetic cause of mortality in 
infants and toddlers worldwide and the 
Company has identified a number of “hit” 
compounds that improve the symptoms 
of SMA when tested in VASTox’s in vivo 
fruitfly screen designed to model the 
disease. This particular programme 
demonstrates the value of our drug 
discovery approach as these “hits”  
were identified within 18 months of  
the programme starting, and a lead 
preclinical compound is now being 
sought. We are also preparing to 
apply for Orphan Drug designation 
for this programme.
VASTox’s excellence and expertise in 
neuromuscular diseases was further 
recognised by the EU when the 
Company joined the TREAT-NMD 
network, a European network of 
leading researches, clinicians and 
charities focused on developing  
new medicines, which is funded by  
a €10 million EU grant. 
In the core area of anti-infectives, 
VASTox’s first programme is targeting 
tuberculosis (TB), a resurgent disease 
with serious global health implications. 
Currently, the TB programme is in the 
early discovery phases and has made 
good progress during the year with 
several promising compounds identified 
as being active against the bacteria that 
cause TB. These ‘hit’ compounds are 
now being investigated further. IMMEDIATE REVENUES IMMEDIATE REVENUES
BIOLOGY
zebrash
CORE
PROGRAMMES
Neuro-disorders:
Parkinson’s Disease
DMD
SMA
Infectious diseases:
TB
OTHER 
PROGRAMMES
Immunomodulator:
Cancer
Allergy
Adjuvant
Osteoarthritis
Cancer
TECHNOLOGY
PLATFORMS
MEDIUM &
LONG TERM
REVENUES
CHEMISTRY 
carbohydrates
08 VASTox	 plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Other	 programmes
Our remaining programmes are currently 
targeting cancer, ophthalmic diseases 
and regenerative medicine (stem cells), 
and we have three programmes at the 
preclinical stage of development.
One of our most advanced non-core 
programmes, VOX14400, was initially 
developed by MNL Pharma and has the 
potential to target and treat various types 
of solid tumours as well as a number  
of other indications. We are actively 
seeking a development partner to 
progress this candidate.
The programmes in ophthalmic diseases 
are targeting glaucoma and age-related 
macular degeneration and are in the 
preclinical stages of development.  
Both programmes were acquired  
from DanioLabs.
Pharmaceutical	 services
While our drug pipeline is where our long-
term value lies, a core element of our dual 
business model is the development of two 
powerful drug discovery and development 
technology platforms. These not only 
underpin our ability to develop and fuel  
our own pipeline, but also enable us to 
generate revenues by providing elements 
of the technology platforms to partners in 
the pharmaceutical sector for their own 
drug discovery purposes. 
Our service offering is an increasingly 
profitable part of the Company’s business, 
generating revenues of £1 million in 2006/07 , 
nearly double the revenues of 2005/06. 
The wider pharmaceutical industry 
increasingly is recognising the value our 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
Dr Steven Lee
unique capabilities bring to drug discovery 
programmes as we provided discovery 
services to over 25 clients during the year.
 
This business is expected to grow 
significantly in 2007 owing to the 
strengthening of our capabilities in all 
areas through the integration of the 
assets from the acquired companies. 
This will provide the enlarged Company 
with immediate access to complementary 
expertise and high-quality facilities as  
well as existing contracts and revenue 
streams, and access to a significantly 
broader customer base.
Furthermore, these acquisitions are 
expected to support and accelerate our 
strategy of developing longer-term, higher- 
value drug discovery and development 
partnerships with pharmaceutical 
companies. Indeed, in 2007 we have 
already signed three such agreements 
totalling over £800,000 in upfront payments 
and research funding milestones with one 
of the deals including a 5% royalty fee on 
product sales. Over the course of the next 
12 months, we will be working hard to 
develop further relationships of this nature 
based on the benefits our unique range of 
capabilities can offer partners. 09 vastox.com
Our	 unique	 drug	 discovery	 and	 development	 capabilities
The fundamentals of our business and of 
our ability to create value are based on 
our world-leading chemical genomics 
and carbohydrate technology platforms. 
During the year, each platform has  
been significantly strengthened both 
organically and through the recent 
acquisitions we have made.
Chemical	 genomics
Chemical genomics refers to the analysis 
and understanding of the effect that 
drug-like molecules have on whole 
organisms. VASTox has developed an 
industry leading chemical genomics 
technology platform that makes use  
of two extensively studied organisms: 
zebrafish and fruitflies.
This technology enables us to rapidly 
screen libraries of drug-like compounds 
to provide information not just on 
potential efficacy but also on the safety 
of lead compounds. This capability is 
extremely valuable as it can accelerate 
the early stages of the discovery process 
thereby reducing overall costs.
The acquisition of DanioLabs shows  
the belief and commitment VASTox has  
in zebrafish chemical genomics and  
the huge potential benefits that we  
believe this technology brings to the  
drug discovery process. This strategic 
move has created the World’s leading 
company in chemical genomics using this 
versatile and highly relevant organism by 
providing additional zebrafish screening 
technologies and capacity and further 
novel models of human disease. 
Chemistry	 capabilities
We also recognise that chemistry plays 
an essential role in the development of 
new pharmaceuticals. Our chemistry 
capabilities enable us to generate libraries 
of proprietary drug-like compounds for 
screening, to develop “hit” compounds 
into leads and to optimise their structure 
and performance. 
We already have excellent medicinal 
chemistry in-house and the integration  
of Dextra Laboratories and MNL Pharma 
significantly enhances our carbohydrate 
chemistry expertise and capabilities as 
VASTox emerges as the global leader in 
this high-value, complex and currently 
under exploited area of chemistry. 
Management
A key objective over the past  
12 months for VASTox has been to 
create a high quality management  
team with development and  
commercial experience, contacts,  
and enthusiasm to drive the Company’s 
ambitious growth plans forward.
As such, VASTox made several key 
appointments to the Board and 
Executive management team during the 
year: Dr Richard Storer joined as Chief 
Scientific Officer; Darren Millington, 
ACMA, was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer; and James Taylor joined as  
Chief Commercial Officer. These 
appointments add considerable  
sector experience in the important  
areas of preclinical and clinical drug 
development, commercialisation, 
licensing and growth company finance. 
Summary	 and	 outlook
The past 18 months have been 
extremely busy and eventful for VASTox. 
This activity has transformed the 
business into an exciting drug discovery 
and development company that offers 
the prospect of rapidly developing new 
drugs for serious diseases. Through 
internal growth and acquisition, VASTox 
has created a broad and diverse pipeline 
of drug candidates from discovery to 
clinical stages of development, and two 
strong technology platforms to support 
and advance these programmes. 
Furthermore, the revenue growth we have 
seen from our services offering and its 
increasing industry validation confirms 
the confidence we have in our approach 
to deliver value to customers and 
partners in the pharmaceutical sector.
 
We anticipate a busy year in 2007/08, 
integrating the new components of our 
business, but we believe we have many 
of the right elements in place to begin 
capitalising on the combined strength  
of the enlarged Company to create 
significant value for our shareholders.
Finally, I would like to thank the efforts of 
all involved with the continued growth and 
development of VASTox and look forward 
to reporting further progress in the future.
Steven	 Lee	 PhD
Chief Executive Officer
11 June 2007
