 04 VASTox	 plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2006/07
Chairman’s Review
Dr Barry Price
It	 gives	 me	 great	 pleasure	 to	 present	 	 my	 first	 annual	 report	 as	 Chairman	 of	 V ASTox	 plc.
2006/07	 has	 been	 a	 crucial	 period	 for	 VASTox	 and	 one	 in	 which	 we	 believe	 the	 Company	 has	 reached	 a	 new	 stage	 of	 development	 and	 growing	 maturity,	 having	 advanced	 out	 of	 its	 start-up	 phase.	 This	 transformation	 has	 been	 achieved	 both	 through	 impressive	 organic	 growth	 and	 through	 a	 focused	 acquisition	 strategy	 during	 this	 period.
Our main objective is to create value. As a 
leading drug discovery and development 
company, the acquisitions in March 2007 
of the UK companies – DanioLabs Ltd 
(Cambridge) and Dextra Laboratories Ltd 
(Reading) plus the earlier acquisition of key 
assets of MNL Pharma Ltd (Aberystwyth) 
provide VASTox with world leadership in 
zebrafish chemical genomics and 
carbohydrate chemistry as we endeavour 
to deliver on this objective.
The Company now has substantial assets 
that it aims to leverage in different ways to 
deliver sustainable growth and maximise 
shareholder value. We believe that we 
have made great strides in this direction  
to date and that our strengthened position 
will now lead to further opportunities to 
accelerate growth in the future. 
In summary, the Company has made 
great advances in developing its drug 
pipeline, enhancing its drug discovery 
and development capabilities, adding 
expertise and experience at board, 
management and scientific levels,  
and boosting revenue growth of its 
pharmaceutical services.
A significant impact of the activities we 
have undertaken is the building of an 
exciting pipeline of clinical, preclinical 
and discovery stage drug candidates 
across a range of therapeutic areas  
with high unmet medical need. 
Programmes in VASTox’s core areas of 
expertise at this stage, include neuro-
disorders and infectious diseases and  
are where we can call on considerable 
scientific and development knowledge to 
add value to our programmes. Currently, 
we have lead candidates in clinical 
development targeting the symptoms  
of Parkinson’s disease and preclinical 
programmes in Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy (DMD) and Spinal muscular 
atrophy (SMA). The Company’s 
differentiating expertise in these areas  
will be used to develop candidates to  
an optimal point before licensing or 
partnering out. By retaining a high  
equity stake in the future value of these 
programmes, we are also looking to 
generate significant long-term returns  
for shareholders.
Programmes outside our core areas, 
including cancer, ophthalmology and 
regenerative medicine (stem cells), 
represent opportunities for attractive 
early deals to realise near-term value 
whilst retaining a stake in the longer-term 
potential. One potential out-licensing 
opportunity is likely to be with our  
lead anticancer preclinical candidate 
VOX14400, which we are planning to 
enter into Phase I clinical trials in the  
first half of 2008. 
Underpinning the development of our 
pipeline as well as providing increasing 
revenues, are VASTox’s proprietary 
chemical genomics and substantial 
chemistry capabilities. These capabilities 
have been significantly enhanced in 
terms of expertise, staff, facilities 
and capacity following the recent 
acquisitions. Furthermore, they have 
provided us with existing business, 
immediate revenue streams and access 
to a wider customer network.
People
The Company made a number of 
important changes to the Board and 
senior management during the year as 
we reviewed the skills necessary to lead 
a dynamic and fast-growing company. 
We have brought in high-quality people 
with a wealth of skills, particularly in  
drug discovery, development and 
commercialisation, all of which will be 
crucial for the Company’s future growth.
In addition, through the acquisitions 
VASTox has rapidly expanded to employ 
more than 100 highly skilled scientists 
across four UK sites. We are also very 
pleased to have retained the key 
scientific founders of the acquired 
businesses and look forward to their 
continued contribution to the business. 
I would just like to take this opportunity 
to thank Professor Stephen Davies  
who stepped down as Chairman in 
September 2006. Steve, as founding 
Chairman of VASTox, has made  
a significant contribution to the  
Company’s direction and success,  
and we are very pleased that he will 
continue to provide valuable input as  
a Non-executive Director. 05 vastox.com
I would also like to welcome to the Board, 
Dr Colin Wall, Dr Andrew Richards and 
George Elliott, CA. Colin has 40 years’  
of commercial experience including 
significant board-level experience  
at a number of public and private 
companies and was appointed as  
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director. He replaces founding director 
John Montgomery who stepped down 
last year with our thanks and best wishes. 
Andrew joins as a Non-executive Director 
and will bring a tremendous wealth of 
experience of the biotechnology sector  
to VASTox, while George brings us wide-
ranging financial and commercial expertise 
in high growth technology companies.
Financial	 performance
The financial performance of the Company 
continues to be strong; the Company has 
nearly doubled revenues to £1 million from 
its pharmaceutical business compared 
with last year. Investment in research 
increased to £2.9 million, losses are 
£3.0 million, and cash is £18.3 million. The 
Company continues to maintain a strong 
focus on financial discipline and expects 
to continue its growth and development  
in all areas in 2007.
Name	 change	 to	 Summit	 plc
Based on the progress the Company has 
made over the past couple of years and 
its long-term development plans, we are 
very pleased to propose a new name  
for the Company: Summit plc. We are 
proposing this name as it encapsulates 
the desire and ambitions of the Company 
while also providing an identity that has 
the flexibility to accommodate future 
growth and development within the 
business. This name change is subject  
to shareholder approval, which will be 
sought at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting, to be held on 19 July 2007.
 
Summary	 and	 outlook
Since I joined VASTox in September 
2006, I have been greatly impressed with 
the Company’s ambitions, enthusiasm 
and maturity, the quality of its people, and 
the strength and potential of its drug 
discovery and development capabilities. 
The transforming events that have 
happened over the past 18 months have 
put VASTox in a strong position to 
capitalise on this potential in the near-, 
mid- and long-term. We are looking 
forward with confidence to the challenges 
that the next year will bring to continue 
the rapid growth of the business. 
Finally, I would like to thank all VASTox 
employees for their dedication and 
contribution to the business and look 
forward to an exciting and productive  
year ahead.
Barry	 Price,	 PhD
Chairman 
11 June 2007
January	 2003
VASTox was founded out of Oxford 
University and rapidly developed  
into one of the UK’s leading 
biotechnology companies.
October	 2004
Listed on the AIM section of the 
London Stock Exchange (AIM: VOX).
Company	 history
February	 2006
Raised funds to capitalise on  
the promising results of the drug 
discovery programme targeting  
the fatal genetic disease, Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy.
December	 2006
Acquired key assets of UK 
biotechnology company MNL  
Pharma to strengthen carbohydrate 
chemistry capabilities.
March	 2007
Acquired DanioLabs and Dextra 
Laboratories to strengthen  
drug pipeline and create  
world-leading technology  
platforms in zebrafish chemical 
genomics and carbohydrate  
chemistry.
