 05
www.superglass.co.uk Superglass Holdings Plc  annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
Business review:
Chief Executive’s review
Ensuring a secure financial position 
despite market uncertainty
Introduction
During the year to 31 August Superglass 
faced a combination of exceptionally 
challenging market and operational 
conditions. Against this backdrop, the 
Group is today reporting trading in line 
with recent market expectations. Revenue 
was up 3% to £32.4 million despite the 
continued shortfall in the Carbon Emissions 
Reduction Target Scheme (CERT). Profitability 
was significantly affected by lower selling 
prices, higher energy costs and the impact 
of the repairs and pre-emptive maintenance 
works to the fabric of our two furnaces 
in the first half of the year, reducing our 
production capacity and resulting in a 
loss before tax, amortisation of intangibles 
and exceptional items of £0.6 million 
(PBTAE 2010: £3.7 million).
The management team has taken positive 
action to confront these challenges and 
as a result has delivered:
K
  a comprehensive recapitalisation of 
the balance sheet since the year end;
K
  the continued broadening of Superglass’ 
routes to market and its customer base; 
K
  an increase in volumes during the second 
half of the year;
K
  some efficiency improvements 
within the constraints of the current 
operating infrastructure; and
K
  a blueprint for a capital expenditure 
programme to deliver significant 
reduction in annual operating costs. 
Recapitalisation
I am delighted that with support from 
equity investors, Clydesdale Bank and 
Scottish Enterprise, subsequent to the 
year end, we have been able to transform 
Superglass’ capital base, not only enabling 
us to implement a capital investment 
programme which will commence in 
March 2012, but also providing us with 
the working capital we need to stabilise 
and grow our business. The investment 
will substantially improve the operating 
efficiency of our manufacturing plant to 
reduce our cost base by more than 15%, 
to improve product quality and to provide 
an additional 10% of production capacity.
Highlights of the recapitalisation are 
as follows:
K
  equity fundraising of £8.0 million net 
of expenses;
K
  Regional Selective Assistance award 
of up to £2.0 million;
K
  bank term loan reduced by £12.15 million 
to £5.1 million through a conversion 
of debt into convertible shares, these 
being exercisable into ordinary shares 
after two years:
 
K
  equity conversion terms: 12% at 
post share reorganisation trigger 
price of 70 pence and 11% at post 
share reorganisation trigger price 
of 90 pence;
K
 new bank facility terms agreed:
 
K
  repayment holiday on residual core 
debt of two years, thereafter repayable 
in quarterly instalments;
 K
  no covenant tests for two years, 
rolling twelve month cash flow and 
interest cover covenants tested 
quarterly thereafter; and
 
K
  committed Revolving Credit Facility 
until November 2016.
Summary of Chief Executive’s Review
 K  Positive management action to 
confront the financial and operational 
challenges faced throughout the year.
 K  Development of a detailed capital 
investment programme to deliver 
annual savings of up to £3.6 million, 
restoring the Company’s competitive 
market position.
 K  Expansion of customer base and 
product range despite very difficult 
trading conditions.
ar11.superglass.co.uk/ceo
Alex McLeod, Chief Executive 06
Superglass Holdings Plc  annual report and accounts 2011 www.superglass.co.uk
Business review:
Chief Executive’s review
continued
Capital expenditure programme 
to achieve lower delivered costs
In March 2011, the Group instructed 
the consultancy firm CM Projects, 
which specialises in projects for the glass 
processing industry, to undertake a high 
level benchmarking study of its production 
facilities and processes. In its report to 
Superglass, CM Projects highlighted several 
areas of the Group’s manufacturing and 
product handling processes which could 
be improved significantly.
The actions identified comprise seven 
discrete process areas requiring phased 
upgrades and modifications to existing 
machinery which, once fully implemented, 
have the potential to deliver aggregate 
annual operating cost savings of up to 
£3.6 million for an aggregate capital outlay, 
including a provision for fees and other 
contingencies, of approximately £6.5 million. 
Furthermore, this expenditure is also likely 
to result in improved product quality, 
increased production capacity and increased 
product compression leading to reduced 
transport costs.
The Board has now approved a detailed 
implementation plan, with the first phase 
of seven discrete project areas scheduled 
to commence in March 2012. Cost savings 
are expected to start to flow through from 
the 2012/2013 financial year onwards.
Operations
The financial year was a year of significant 
transition in operations. It began with the 
recovery from the furnace failure at the end 
of the previous financial year. Our second 
furnace was refurbished in December 2010 
and as a result we anticipate an extended 
working life for both furnaces until post 2015.
Despite limited availability of capital 
spending our operations team was able 
to deliver significant improvement in 
operating efficiency levels.
Sales and markets
Overall sales volumes were 13% ahead 
of prior year. This was due, in particular, 
to the growth we achieved in sales to 
specialist distributors where volumes were 
approximately 25% ahead of last year’s 
equivalent period. We also grew our volumes 
with builders merchants, which showed 
a 21% increase.
1. Developing our routes to market
“ The actions identified 
have the potential to 
deliver aggregate 
annual operating 
cost savings of up 
to £3.6 million for an 
aggregate capital 
outlay, including a 
provision for fees and 
other contingencies 
of approximately 
£6.5 million”
Reducing our CERT dependency...
K CERT activity to end 2012
K  Continued focus on the independent 
merchant sector has given a year on year 
growth of 21%
K  Specification activity has driven 25% sales 
growth with specialist insulation distributors
CERT
Specialist distribution
Builders merchants
Export
Other
Percentage volume by channel
2009 2011 07
www.superglass.co.uk Superglass Holdings Plc  annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
Innovation process supports the 
changing market position:
K  10 active projects in the innovation pipeline
K  new product launch of Superwall Roll 36 
in June is our first in more than 10 years 
and signals future intent
K  to date innovation focus has been on 
traditional markets, during 2012 focus will 
expand to new markets for Superglass
CERT activity throughout the year was 
below expectations. Increased installations 
have resulted in some modest improvement 
in volumes since the year end. Recent 
Government statements reminding energy 
suppliers of their obligations to meet CERT 
targets by December 2012 are welcome.
Pricing came under pressure for much 
of the financial year due to the continued 
lack of expected CERT activity. At a time 
of substantially increased energy costs, 
selling prices fell by more than 5%. However, 
with increasing demand since the year end 
and given that our plant is operating at 
close to full production capacity for cured 
products, the prospects for price recovery 
are more encouraging.
Dividends
Dividend payments have been suspended 
during 2011, largely as a result of the trading 
and financial position of the Company. The 
Board has agreed not to resume dividend 
payments during the next two financial 
years. In determining the level of future 
dividend payments thereafter, the Directors 
will take account of the profitability, cash 
Superwall Roll 36
Superwall Roll 36 is a BBA approved 
cavity wall roll. Treated with water 
repellent additives, Superwall Roll 36 
is intended for new masonry walls in 
full fill applications.
In
ch
K 
K 
K 
ved 
r 
l 36 
s in 
generation and underlying growth of the 
business while seeking to maintain 
an appropriate level of dividend cover.
Market drivers and future strategy
Recent market research indicates that 
the UK building insulation market will 
experience a trend rate of compound 
annual growth in excess of 5% between 
now and the end of 2015, much of which 
will be driven by Government legislation 
and the tightening regulatory environment 
and energy efficiency standards affecting 
residential, commercial and industrial 
property construction. Structural drivers 
of market demand are expected to include 
the mandatory Government targets 
imposed under CERT for the period ending 
December 2012; the Green Deal initiative, 
which is intended to realise a further 
reduction in domestic energy consumption 
following the expiry of the CERT obligations; 
the progressive impact of planned changes 
to building regulations governing both the 
residential and commercial sectors; and 
the impact of rising energy costs.
2. Innovation 08
Superglass Holdings Plc  annual report and accounts 2011 www.superglass.co.uk
Business review:
Chief Executive’s review
continued
K  Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE) is our key measure 
in driving efficiency, increasing capacity and tracks our 
progress in:
 K improving equipment reliability;
 K  driving down waste; and
 K maximising material utilisation.
K  Furnace rebuilds have reduced risk profile and contributed 
to improved reliability
K  Introduced a new 24/7 shift pattern
K  Step change in performance facilitates the higher sales 
volume levels leading to operational gearing benefits
3. Improving our efficiency
Market drivers and future strategy 
continued
Our strategy is to position Superglass 
to maximise its share of the potential 
benefits from the structural growth 
drivers identified above, through the 
following initiatives:
K
  the successfully completed 
recapitalisation of the business;
K
  the delivery of a material improvement 
in the Group’s competitive market position 
through the lower delivered cost initiative 
that underpins the Group’s capital 
expenditure plans; and
K
  continued diversification and 
strengthening of the Group’s market 
position by broadening its customer 
base, its penetration of new market 
channels and the introduction of new 
value-added products.
Current trading and outlook
Superglass sales volumes continue 
to be ahead of prior year in cured 
products compensating for continuing 
underperformance in CERT-related blowing 
wool product lines. As a result output 
in non-CERT-dependent product lines is 
running at close to full capacity. The Board 
expects product mix, market weakness and 
cost pressures to continue to affect margins 
throughout the first half of the current 
financial year.
Looking forward, and as noted in previous 
statements, a substantial increase in energy 
suppliers’ activity is now required to achieve 
the Government’s mandatory CERT targets 
before the expiry of CERT in December 2012. 
This provides some grounds for optimism 
in the short term. However, the current 
level of activity within the residential 
housebuilding market in the UK, together 
with the well-documented pressures on 
the consumer, provide ample grounds for 
caution as to the likelihood of any significant 
uplift in overall market demand in 2012. 
We benchmark against “best in class”
2010-11 concluded a detailed exercise to benchmark 
Superglass against best practices in energy consumption, 
process efficiencies and waste elimination. Working with 
Europe’s premier glass and glass fibre consultants 
Superglass has created a multi-million pound investment 
plan for its site in Stirling. To be completed in March 2013, 
the investment will take Superglass on a journey to compete 
with best in class for efficiencies, “lowered delivered 
costs” and increased product quality and “desirability.” 09
www.superglass.co.uk Superglass Holdings Plc  annual report and accounts 2011
Business review
K  Significant drive to improve plant reliability and reduce waste
K  Furnace repairs have reduced risk profile and contributed to 
improved reliability
K  December extreme weather impacted on plant performance 
and overall profitability by £0.5 million
K  Step change in performance facilitates the higher sales 
volume levels leading to operational gearing benefits
The key operating assumptions upon which 
the debt reduction and restructuring and 
the capital expenditure programme have 
been based are intended to ensure that 
the Group’s financial position remains 
secure even in the absence of a sustained 
recovery in market conditions.
In any event, 2012 will be a year of transition 
for Superglass with underlying trading 
performance likely to be impacted by the 
capital expenditure programme which is 
planned to commence in March 2012 and 
continue throughout the remainder of the 
calendar year. The payback from this 
programme will be reflected within the 
Group’s financial results in future trading 
periods and its fundamental purpose is 
to restore the Group’s competitive market 
position. This is expected, in turn, to provide 
the platform for a recovery in underlying 
trading performance in the medium term, 
whether or not there is any sustained 
upturn in overall market demand.
Alex McLeod
Chief Executive Officer
6 December 2011
4. Building a stronger team
Superglass is committed to achieving the 
highest level of employee engagement in 
its journey to excellence. 
Over the last year we have many reasons to be proud 
of the commitment and team spirit that underpins the 
changes taking place within the Company. Over the 
last 12 months we have: 
K  improved communication throughout the business 
so that all employees understand and are able to 
support our business strategy;
K reduced absenteeism to best in class;
K  reviewed our HR Policies ensuring they support 
a “one team approach”; and 
K  positive impact of Specification Team on 
sales generation.
“  The payback from 
this programme will 
be reflected within 
the Group’s financial 
results in future 
trading periods and its 
fundamental purpose 
is to restore the 
Group’s competitive 
market position.”
