 02
Superglass Holdings Plc 
annual report and accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s review
CReAt in G A pl At fo Rm 
fo R GRowth
Summary of Chief Executive’s Review
 e Project Phoenix, our ambitious manufacturing investment programme, was 
delivered on time and meaningful cost savings have already been achieved.
 e A refinancing was successfully completed in June, raising gross funds 
of £12.9m by way of a placing of shares and transfer to the AIM market, 
as well as the conversion of £5.725m of debt into equity.
 e The reduction in overall market demand has seen competition intensify 
in other market channels. However, with demand beginning to increase 
through an improving construction market, we would expect to see prices 
stabilise and begin to recover during this financial year.
Significant progress 
has been made 
towards achieving the 
strategic objective of 
migrating Superglass 
to a lower cost, higher 
quality producer of 
glass fibre insulation 
with an emphasis 
on selling products 
through broader 
routes to market and 
an enlarged customer 
base with a more 
comprehensive 
range of solutions.”
Alex McLeod Chief Executive Officer
Superglass has succeeded, during the financial 
year ended 31 August 2013, in creating a platform 
for growth despite extremely challenging trading 
conditions. Significant progress has been made 
towards achieving the strategic objective of 
migrating Superglass to a lower cost, higher 
quality producer of glass fibre insulation with an 
emphasis on selling products through broader 
routes to market and an enlarged customer base 
with a more comprehensive range of solutions.
Project Phoenix, our ambitious manufacturing 
investment programme, was delivered on time 
and meaningful cost savings have already been 
achieved. This was the most complex project 
the business has ever undertaken and I am very 
proud of the entire Superglass team who made 
this possible. A refinancing was successfully 
completed in June, raising gross funds of £12.9m 
by way of a placing of shares and transfer to the 
AIM market, as well as the conversion of £5.725m 
of debt into equity. This provides the Company 
with a strengthened and sustainable long-term 
capital structure.
The transition from CERT to ECO/Green Deal 
has caused a major gap in activity within 
the retrofit market for both loft and cavity 
insulation. Combined with abnormally low 
levels of house-building activity in the UK by 
historical standards of new unit construction, 
despite recent early signs of recovery, the 
net effect has been a surplus of UK-based 
insulation manufacturing capacity and highly 
competitive market conditions.
The results for the year reflect the continuing 
difficult trading conditions and planned production 
outages for Project Phoenix works. Revenue for 
the period was £24.4m, 25% down on last year. 
Loss before interest, taxation, depreciation, 
amortisation and exceptional items was £2.5m, 
in line with expectations, due to the decline in 
volume and the impact of two plant shutdowns 
required to implement new technology. Strong 
working capital management contributed to better 
than expected end of year net funds of £4.6m.
In summary, the operations and financial 
structures are now vastly improved. Our 
focus for the year ahead is ensuring we 
leverage the commercial benefits that 
this new platform provides.
Phoenix investment
The implementation of new technology as part 
of Project Phoenix was exceptionally well executed 
by the operations team. This was the largest 
project undertaken at Superglass since it was 
established in 1987 and both phases were 
delivered on time, with the cost savings we 
expected coming through in the latter part 
of the financial year. 
The plant now has best in class fiberising 
technology providing reductions in energy, 
waste and material usage and an ability to 
compress our products further, increasing 
payloads and reducing transport costs by 
an estimated 5–10%. The project has already 
delivered substantial cost savings in reduced 
energy consumption and waste totalling an 
annual run rate of £2.8m by the end of the 
financial year ended 31 August 2013. 
Full year benefits of the cost saving 
programme plus other initiatives will reach 
at least £5.0m per annum by the end of the 
financial year ending 31 August 2014, through 
delivery of further efficiency savings. 
Refinancing
With support from investors and Clydesdale Bank 
we have further strengthened the capital base 
during the year, providing resilience to continue 
the transformation of the business in more 
challenging market circumstances. Highlights 
of the refinancing were as follows:
_0_SPGH_ar13_Front_[MR].indd   2 12/2/2013   1:40:21 PM 03
Superglass Holdings Plc
annual report and accounts 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 e equity fundraising of £12.9m (£12.2m, 
net of expenses);
 e bank term loan and RCF facility reduced 
by £8.725m through the repayment of £3.0m 
(from funds raised) and the conversion of 
£5.725m of debt into convertible shares, 
these being exercisable into ordinary 
shares from two years after issue; and
 e Residual bank debt of £2.5m is covenant 
free and non-amortising, with a bullet 
repayment due on 30 April 2018.
Market
The transition from CERT to the Government’s 
flagship energy efficiency schemes of Green Deal 
and the energy supplier obligation (the Energy 
Company Obligation (ECO)) has resulted in 
a collapse in demand for loft and cavity wall 
insulation. It is now widely accepted that 2013 
activity levels are around 90% down on 2012 
levels. There are an estimated 7.1m lofts and 
5.3m cavities remaining under-insulated. 
To put this in context, under the last scheme, 
CERT, 3.9m lofts and 2.6m cavities were insulated 
over the lifetime of the scheme (2008–2012).
The remaining work outstanding therefore 
equates to double the work delivered through 
CERT; however, with current levels of activity 
it will take more than 50 years to complete 
all outstanding work without a fundamental 
re-think of current schemes, which are failing 
to deliver at the required level necessary 
to achieve Government targets by 2020.
An agreement has been reached with InstaGroup 
to exit the current solus supply arrangement 
which will enable Superglass to offer cavity wall 
solutions to the wider market, which until now we 
have been excluded from under the terms of this 
agreement. Products have been developed and 
we will shortly attain the necessary approvals to 
enable Superglass to provide a range of solutions 
under the ECO in non-traditional measures (Hard 
To Treat), which is the one Government scheme 
generating at least some activity. The transition 
has, however, resulted in a collapse in demand 
for traditional cavity wall measures and has led 
the Board to decide to discontinue a by-product 
cavity wall solution of which we have a surplus 
stock. The costs to convert the finished product to 
enable it to be sold in non-traditional applications 
is prohibitive. The Board intends to write down 
these surplus stocks with a book value of £0.5m 
in the 2013/14 accounts. Overall this development 
is positive as it allows Superglass to access the 
wider (albeit substantially smaller) Green Deal/
ECO market channel and, through the prompt 
disposal of the by-product cavity wall solution, 
a reduction in storage costs during the current 
financial year will impact positively on cash flow. 
We have begun to leverage the benefits generated 
from the new platform that our improved 
production facility and stronger balance sheet 
have provided. Mineral wool insulation of lofts and 
cavities remains one of the lowest cost means of 
saving carbon. We have continued to develop our 
key strengths of flexibility, product quality and 
service. With the new technology in place we will 
also strengthen our capability to develop end 
user relationships and innovation. In new build 
construction we will continue developing new 
specifications with an emphasis on new product 
innovation. For example, work continues with 
one of the UK’s major house builders on 
implementing our unique acoustic solution. 
Further innovative solutions are planned to 
address this market which the industry expects 
to show very strong growth as a result of the 
Funding for Lending and Help to Buy schemes 
introduced by the Government to stimulate 
the housing market.
Builders merchants are an important route 
to market for Superglass and an area of growth for 
us. I am therefore delighted to report that during 
the summer we began trading with Jewson, one 
of the top three builders merchants in the UK.
The investment in new technology provides 
Superglass with the opportunity to develop 
a product range suitable for export markets 
helped by reduced transport costs as a result 
of our higher compression levels. 
The reduction in overall market demand has seen 
competition intensify in other market channels 
resulting in pressure on pricing levels. However, 
with demand beginning to increase through 
an improving construction market, we would 
expect to see prices stabilise and begin to 
recover during this financial year. 
Operations
The focus for the year has been on the 
successful upgrading of both production lines. 
Cost savings were delivered in the year and the 
focus will continue on delivering further cost 
savings throughout the current financial year. 
We expect to deliver annual run rate savings 
of at least £5.0m per annum by August 2014.
A comprehensive review of our inventory and 
logistics costs is being undertaken and we expect 
to be able to generate further cost reductions in 
addition to those savings previously identified.
Board
In September 2013, Declan Billington joined 
the Board. Declan brings a wealth of operational 
and financial experience to the Board. He is 
CEO of John Thompson and Sons Ltd, a leading 
retailer and manufacturer of animal feeds based 
in Northern Ireland, and is also a director 
of W. & R. Barnett Limited, the Company’s 
largest shareholder. 
The Board also announced the resignation, 
for personal reasons, of Allan Clow as 
Finance Director. I would like to thank Allan 
for his valuable contribution to the business 
and, in particular, his support in completing 
the successful capital restructuring earlier 
this year and I wish him well for the future.
Organisation
To deliver from the platform created will require 
Superglass to further develop and renew the team 
and culture. In 2012/13 significant strengthening 
of line management was completed in the 
operations team which was a major factor in the 
successful implementation of Project Phoenix. 
Further strengthening of the management team 
at all levels will continue in 2013/14 with 
a strong emphasis on improving our sales 
and innovation capability. 
Outlook
It is difficult to envisage that activity levels 
in Green Deal and ECO can fall any further 
and with recent evidence of strong growth 
in housing activity, it is likely that demand 
will begin to recover, albeit from a very low 
base. However, we had previously anticipated 
better, albeit slow recovery in demand under 
ECO/Green Deal. Revenues in this area in 
2014 will therefore be lower than management 
had originally expected.
The combination of a successful refinancing 
and the introduction of best in class technology 
will enable Superglass to focus on an improved 
commercial offering in its chosen markets 
whilst delivering further cost savings. Emphasis 
will continue to be placed on margin recovery 
through a constant focus on cost savings. 
We also expect pricing levels to begin to 
recover as demand increases.
During 2013/14 Superglass will aim to provide 
an enhanced offering through a growth in 
sales specification activity combined with 
the introduction of new products and services. 
I am confident that further cost savings will 
be achieved in production and logistics costs. 
Alex McLeod
Chief Executive Officer
19 November 2013
projected annualised cost saving run rate by 
31 August 2014
+£5.0m
Gross funds raised from refinancing 
£12.9m
_0_SPGH_ar13_Front_[MR].indd   3 12/2/2013   1:40:25 PM
