 04
Superglass Holdings Plc  annual report and accounts 2011 www.superglass.co.uk
Overview:
Chairman’s statement
The management team has worked hard to 
transform the capital base of the Company
My statement today looks to the 
future. Over the last year, Superglass 
has faced unprecedented operational 
and trading challenges. These have 
been well documented. Despite this the 
management team has worked hard not 
only to increase sales to £32.4 million by 
broadening the Group’s customer base 
and routes to market but also to transform 
fundamentally the capital base of the 
Company through a successful equity 
issue and capital restructuring.
On 2 December 2011, Superglass 
confirmed that it had raised £8.0 million 
net of expenses from investors and agreed 
a capital restructuring in collaboration 
with its bankers, Clydesdale Bank, to reduce 
its core borrowings to £5.1 million through 
the conversion of £12.15 million of its bank 
debt into convertible shares. On 17 November, 
Scottish Enterprise announced that it had 
approved Superglass’ Regional Selective 
Assistance application for a grant of up 
to £2.0 million. The net proceeds of the 
grant and equity issue will be used to fund 
the Group’s planned capital expenditure 
programme and to provide additional 
working capital.
This capital expenditure programme is 
much needed and will commence in March 
next year with completion scheduled for 
March 2013. In conjunction with external 
consultants we have identified a number of 
areas where we can upgrade our processes 
and equipment to deliver increased capacity 
and operating efficiency gains, resulting in 
savings of up to £3.6 million in annual 
operating costs which will start to impact 
meaningfully in the 2012/13 financial year. 
This investment underpins a clear strategy 
for growth which combines a lower delivered 
product cost with a broader customer base 
and product range to strengthen Superglass’ 
competitive position.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
all our existing and new investors as well 
as Clydesdale Bank and Scottish Enterprise 
for their substantial support as we move 
into the next stage of our development 
and position Superglass for the future.
Tim Ross
Chairman
6 December 2011
Tim Ross, Chairman
“  The much needed capital expenditure 
programme supported by new and existing 
investors together with Clydesdale bank and 
Scottish Enterprise, underpins a clear strategy 
for growth which combines a lower delivered 
product cost with a broader customer base, 
to improve Superglass’ competitive position.”
ar11.superglass.co.uk/chairman
