 Supporta plc  – Annual Report & Accounts 2009 6
The Board is proud of the progress made in 
the Care, TerraQuest and Datacare operating 
businesses during the past twelve months.
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to present the Group’s 
results for the year ended 
31 March 2009.  The Board is proud 
of the progress made in the Care, 
TerraQuest and Datacare operating 
businesses during the past twelve 
months.  The progress in delivering 
significant revenue and underlying 
profit growth is a testament to the 
management of these businesses in 
what has been a year of challenges 
posed by difficult economic conditions 
and considerable uncertainty relating 
to the offers made for the acquisition 
of the Group.
Group Strategy
During 2008/9, the Board has taken 
important steps to focus the business 
and realise its core strategy.  We 
disposed of the architecture and 
engineering businesses which were 
acting as a drain on management 
and Board effort and which were not 
meeting our business plan expectations.  
We also reduced Supporta Professional 
Services central overhead and PLC 
costs substantially and maintained a 
tight focus on cost across the business, 
whilst strengthening sales and 
marketing activity.
The Group is now poised to take 
advantage of this improved cost base 
and organisational focus.  
Corporate Activity
As announced on 4 September 2008, 
the Board of Supporta had received an 
approach which may or may not have 
led to an offer to acquire the issued 
and to be issued share capital of the 
Company. Supporta entered exclusive 
discussions following this approach with 
two parties (“Joint Offerors”).  Despite 
significant resource and management 
time being applied to the process, in the 
board’s opinion the prevailing funding 
environment has made it difficult to 
progress matters expeditiously.
Under the terms of an exclusivity 
agreement, the Joint Offerors were 
required to reconfirm, on a specified 
date, that they were prepared to 
proceed at the agreed price.  No such 
reconfirmation was received.  As a 
consequence the Group has now 
terminated discussions with the Joint 
Offerors and all other prospective 
offerors for the Group.  As a result of 
this, the Company is no longer in an 
offer period.
The Board believes that during the offer 
period significant progress has been 
made in restructuring and strengthening 
the Group’s operations.  As described 
elsewhere in this report, organic growth 
in Supporta Care in the year of 19% has 
been achieved, all loss making Supporta 
business services operations have been 
successfully disposed of and central 
costs have been reduced by £1.1m on 
an annualised basis. 
Performance in 2008/09
The reported results for operating 
profit from continuing businesses 
before exceptional items and share 
based payment charge are in line with 
management expectations for the year.
Trading Outlook  
Trading for the year to date is in line 
with management’s expectations and 
the Directors believe that the Group is 
well positioned to deliver underlying 
organic growth in the year.  Supporta 
Care continues to perform very 
positively and the Directors believe 
that it has excellent opportunities 
for growth.  Supporta TerraQuest’s 
growth this year will be impacted by 
the need to invest in the new five year 
contract for which we are currently 
preferred supplier.  We are confident 
that 2009/10 will be a year of positive 
growth for the Group overall.
Dr Clive Grace, Non-executive Chairman Supporta plc  – Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7
The Group is now poised to take 
advantage of this improved cost 
base and organisational focus. 
Core Values
Supporta now has an impressive list of 
customers, predominantly in the public 
sector.  We provide a range of critical 
services which enhance peoples’ lives 
on a daily basis.  We acknowledge this 
responsibility and the accountability 
that comes with it.  We strive to put 
in place quality controls to ensure 
that every customer’s experience 
of Supporta is positive.  The Board 
regularly receives reports on customer 
satisfaction and customer feedback, 
reflecting the importance which it 
attaches to meeting and exceeding 
their expectations.
To continue this success we need 
a highly professional, trained and 
motivated workforce.  We aim to 
reward staff competitively for the roles 
they undertake.  We also realise that 
for many of our staff their roles are 
vocations rather than simply jobs.  We 
aim to enrich their work life through 
training and development which helps 
them meet their aspirations and also 
improves the quality of our services.  
We monitor feedback from staff and 
seek ways in which their working lives 
can be even more rewarding.
Our staff continue to show exceptional 
dedication to their roles and make a 
huge contribution to the quality of life 
of many thousands of people, often 
some of the most vulnerable in the 
United Kingdom.  On this note I would 
like to thank on behalf of the Board all 
Supporta staff who have helped deliver 
these exceptional outcomes both for 
our customers and the Group.
Changes to the Board 
On the 31 December 2008, Michael 
Curran, Chief Executive Officer of the 
Supporta Professional Services Division 
left his role on the Board.  We would 
like to take this opportunity to thank 
Michael formally for his contribution 
to the management of the company 
over the past five years.  The Managing 
Directors of the remaining TerraQuest 
and Datacare business units now report 
directly to John Jasper, Group Chief 
Executive.
Clive Grace
Chairman
22 June 2009
