 Supporta plc  – Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10
Chief Executive’s Statement
Strategic Review
During the course of the year the Board considered a 
number of strategic options for the Group.  These can be 
broadly classified as:
Status quo •	
Focus on Supporta Care •	
Focus on Supporta Professional Services •	
Demerger of the two divisions into two separate  •	
AIM listed companies
The Board concluded that Supporta Care had the better 
prospects for delivering value to shareholders.  Additionally 
the Board acknowledged that management diversion by 
trying to concentrate on the delivery of such a wide range 
of services was likely to dilute shareholder value in the 
short- to medium-term.
As noted in more detail below the Group was approached 
by a private equity house to acquire Supporta Professional 
Services at an acceptable price in the summer of 2007 
and conducted negotiations to an advanced stage which 
were ultimately unsuccessful.  During this time period the 
credit conditions in the market were adversely affected and 
the impact of the underperformance of the Architectural 
business meant that the Group’s value aspirations were 
unlikely to be met in the short-term.  As a consequence 
the Board has decided to concentrate on driving value out 
of the existing businesses until market conditions change 
when the situation will be reviewed again.
Supporta Care
During 2007/08 the Directors believe that Supporta 
Care has enhanced its reputation as a quality provider 
of domiciliary care services.  Our reputation for delivery 
of quality services has resulted in another year of solid 
organic growth with enhanced margins being achieved 
within the business.
The strategy for our Care division is to continue to grow 
a national brand for provision of home care services, 
mainly to the public sector across the UK.  The Directors 
believe that we are well placed as the fifth largest private 
provider of these services to benefit from the continued 
consolidation of this market place, driven by increased 
complexity and regulation.
Care Market
There is an ageing population in the UK, within which 
there is a more demanding expectation on choice and 
quality for the delivery and support of care for the elderly, 
shaped towards individual need. The number of people aged 
65 and over in the UK in 2006 (based on ONS data) was 
8.1 million. The Government’s actuary’s forecasts suggest 
this could increase to 9.8 million by 2016. This represents 
an increase of approximately 21 per cent. In addition to 
the accelerating growth of the elderly population, life 
expectancy at birth is also increasing at a rate of two years 
every decade. As a result of these demographic trends, 
it is likely that a larger proportion of the population will 
require some form of residential or domiciliary care for a 
longer period of time. The Directors believe that the ageing 
population will be a key driver in the allocation of local 
authority care budgets and the demand for domiciliary care 
services in the foreseeable future.
The domiciliary care market remains highly fragmented with 
4,735 suppliers registered in England on 31 March 2007. 
The top five UK quoted suppliers (including Supporta Care) 
account for approximately 15 percent of the total market.  
In 2006, independent sector agencies delivered in excess 
of 75 percent of total home care hours. The combination 
of independent, smaller agencies, local authorities moving 
towards preferred provider type arrangements, increased 
cost pressures and competition, and regulatory and training 
requirements means that in our opinion there will be a 
natural consolidation in the market.
The Directors believe that smaller independent domiciliary 
care providers will struggle to compete in delivering a cost 
effective, quality service whilst simultaneously retaining 
appropriately skilled staff and that larger independent 
providers however are able to offer cost effective 
solutions based on economies of scale and increased 
efficiency in their investment towards quality.
Local authority purchasing power has a major impact on 
the independent domiciliary care sector; it is estimated 
that 60 per cent of independent providers are thought to 
rely on local authorities for more then 75 per cent of their 
business, with almost 15 per cent of providers dependent 
on their local authority as their only customer.  
John Jasper
Group Chief Executive
“During 2007/08 Supporta Care 
enhanced its reputation as a quality 
provider of domiciliary care services.”
* before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and impairment 11 Supporta plc  – Annual Report & Accounts 2008
 
During the year the Care division has secured, renewed 
or extended the following contracts:
Client
Term 
years Type of Contract
Brighton and Hove 1 spot
Dudley 1 block
Durham PCT 1 spot
Hammersmith and Fulham 1 block
Harrow 5 cost and volume
Hertfordshire 7 block
Lambeth PCT Palliative Care 1 spot
Norfolk 1 block
North Lanarkshire 1 spot
Nottinghamshire Extra Care 
(Vale View) 3 block
Richmond 1 block
Stockton on Tees 3 block
Sunderland 2 spot
Surrey 2 spot
Sutton 1 block
Supporta Care’s forward order book at 31 March 2008 
increased by 36% to £88.9m compared to £65.2m in 
March 2007.
We are currently working on a number of further 
opportunities with various local authorities and would 
hope to be able to communicate positively about these 
in the near future.
Supporta Professional Services
The Board took the decision to create the Supporta 
Professional Services division with effect from 
1 April 2007.  This new division was formed from  
the previous Property and Services Divisions.  
In November and December 2007 the board 
implemented a cost savings plan within the Supporta 
Professional Services division that is expected to save 
the Group approximately £1.7m on an annualised 
basis. The implementation of this significant cost 
saving initiative had a £0.8m positive impact on 
this current financial year’s results. Of the £1.7m 
savings approximately £0.5m of this relates to the 
Architectural business.  The Board delayed making 
these savings whilst an approach for the Supporta 
Professional Services division from a private equity 
house was being considered. These negotiations, 
despite being at an advanced stage, did not result 
in a successful disposal. Subsequent restructuring 
led to the departure of the Managing Director of 
the Supporta Professional Services division and the 
Managing Director, Chief Architect and Financial 
Controller of the Architectural practice.
Michael Curran was appointed Managing Director 
of the Supporta Professional Services Division on 
27 November 2007.  Since then he has conducted a 
full review of the Division’s activities and prospects.  
Following this review we decided to organise the 
division into two principal units, Supporta TerraQuest 
headed up by John Gannon and Supporta Services 
headed up by John Fynn.  Supporta TerraQuest is now 
responsible for the Division’s management consultancy 
and Business Process Outsourcing activities.  Supporta 
Services has four principal trading units Architecture, 
Engineering, Healthcare and Records Management.
The 2007/08 revenue and operating profit before 
share-based payment charge, amortisation and 
exceptional items for each of these units is set out in 
the following table:
Revenue
£’000
Operating 
Profit*
Supporta TerraQuest 8,398 2,426
Supporta Services
Architecture 2,198 (6)
Engineering 2,435 534
Healthcare 1,813 380
Records Management 2,169 586
8,615 1,494
Overheads – (1,799)
Supporta Professional Services 17,013 2,121
The Board has implemented a 
£1.7m cost savings plan within 
Supporta Professional Services.  Supporta plc  – Annual Report & Accounts 2008 12
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
The focus for the Division during the course of the next 
financial year will be to improve sales performance and 
secure longer term contracts.  The Directors believe that 
this should begin to reduce the risk in the Division as 
currently we enter the financial year with approximately 
two thirds of our forecast income for the year unsecured.
The focus on sales performance is already beginning to yield 
benefits.  We have secured a number of contracts recently 
which should help to improve the prospects for the division:
Supporta TerraQuest relationship with BT extended to •	
include Local Government. 
Appointed by Transport for London to mapping services •	
framework for Property Asset Register. 
Secured a place on the Geographic Information Services •	
and Solutions (GISS) Catalist Framework agreement with 
OGCbuying.solutions.
Award of a contract by Cross London Rail Links to •	
provide Land Referencing and Property Information 
Management Services. 
Award of a contract by Cross London Rail Links  •	
to provide a web based Property Register as a  
hosted service. 
Appointed by Taylor Wimpey to provide a web-based •	
Strategic Land Database as a hosted service.
Appointed by Department for Transport to undertake •	
a property recording review across the department, 
including all Executive Agencies and Non-Departmental 
Public Bodies.
The forward order book for Professional Services is £6.5m 
(2007: £8.1m), with additional anticipated revenues from 
framework agreements of £12.3m (2007: £8.0m).
The management of Supporta has further identified 
synergies and cross-selling opportunities for the Division, 
which it anticipates will lead to further organic growth in 
2008/09 and beyond.
John Jasper
Group Chief Executive  
23 June 2008
* before share-based payment charge, amortisation and exceptional items.
Supporta TerraQuest
Supporta Services
Civil & Structural Engineering 
Architecture
Document Solutions
Healthcare Consultancy
Supporta Professional Services 
Revenue
49.36%
14.32%
12.92%
12.75%
10.65%
Supporta TerraQuest
Supporta Services
Document Solutions
Civil & Structural Engineering 
Healthcare Consultancy
Supporta Professional Services 
Operating Profit
9.68%
13.6%
14.92%
61.80%
* before allocation of central overhead
