 Chief executive’s report
for the year ended 31 May 2008
The Company expected higher revenues from the automotive market in terms of development programmes and
increased market demand, and to maintain development sales revenue from its aerospace and defence
components clients. It is always difficult predicting the adoption curve of new technologies and the anticipated
demand from the automotive market, although growing, was slower than expected and the revenues from the
aerospace and defence markets below expectations.
AUTOMOTIVE – HIGH PERFORMANCE AND RACE CAR BRAKE SYSTEMS
The revenues from our automotive clients increased significantly in the year, more than enough to compensate
for the previous year’s sales of carbon ceramic product to the US brake system supplier for the development of
the next generation military vehicle (sales in excess of £250,000 which was non-recurring), and for the fall in
aerospace and defence component development revenues. Whilst total sales grew by 7.3%, this was below the
Board’s expectations.
Feedback from the US brake system supplier for the development of the next generation military vehicle has been
very positive with the Company’s products performing well. There have been no issues to date, which is very
encouraging.
Revenues with Koenigsegg and the North American aftermarket have continued and the Company’s revenue
growth has been strong, especially in sales to the European aftermarket with our European distribution partner
Mov’IT. The Company was pleased to sign a new supply agreement with Mov’IT in March 2011. The new
agreement covers the period to 31 December 2014 and provides for minimum sales to Mov’IT of approximately
£2.7 million (€3.1 million) over the term.
Secondly, revenues in the racing market also grew with the Company’s products being recognised as world class
by our customer, a leading global brake system supplier. 
The Company is focused on winning new business and in early 2011 began a commercial partnership with
Alcon Components Ltd, a leading UK based performance brake system supplier to both automotive OEM’s and
the aftermarket. The first commercial application to come out of the partnership is a new ceramic brake upgrade
kit for the Nissan GTR for Alcon’s Asian market. The Company believes as the partnership develops, further
systems will be produced and commercialised.
Alcon Components Ltd is also a member of the Company’s collaborative R&D project, funded by the Technology
Strategy Board. The project continues to progress on track with promising results which are of interest to both
the automotive partners Alcon and Bentley Motor Cars and rail partner Faiveley Transport.
AEROSPACE AND DEFENCE BRAKE DISCS AND COMPONENTS
The Company has worked on a number of development programs in these markets. The development with a US
brake system supplier for a carbon ceramic brake disc continues with the signing of a development agreement
in October 2010. Our client’s initial focus had been on the delivery of a new technology solution for one
particular application, although they believe the technology can be applied to other applications which they
currently supply and have therefore broadened the scope of the development. To support the development the
customer has agreed to fund the future development activities and the first of such orders has now been received.
Both companies are committed to completing the technical development and achieving a commercial solution
as quickly as possible.
Surface Transforms carbon ceramic technology is uniquely positioned to deliver affordable, high performance (in
terms of extended life and reduced mass) rocket components.
Surface Transforms plc
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
6 Chief executive’s report
continued
We have successfully completed the final year of a three year development programme with MBDA, a world
leading missile manufacturer jointly owned by BAE Systems, EADS and Finmecanica and sponsored by the UK
and French Ministries of Defence. The objective of the programme was to evaluate our proprietary carbon
ceramic technology for its use in rocket component applications. The development work delivered very
promising results in terms of material characteristic and cost to manufacture, confirming its potential use as
affordable, high performance rocket components. MBDA have also identified a number of potential rocket
components the technology could be applied too. Similarly the development program with Microturbo, one of
the world leaders in gas turbine applications for missile propulsion has delivered encouraging results during its
first year of a planned two year programme. 
In the current environment of government deficit reduction programmes, the effect on the MoD and its suppliers
is to add a high degree of uncertainty to development funds, making the future of both of these promising
programmes unclear. Consequently revenues were lower than expected this year and we anticipate this situation
will remain uncertain until at least the early part of next year.
OPERATIONS
Affordability and supply capability are the key requirements for our customers. The current economic backdrop
has seen significant price increases from some of the Company’s suppliers. The Company is working to minimise
these cost pressures both through the supply chain and within the Company’s process technology, with some
success. These activities, coupled with a significant increase in automotive development testing necessary for our
automotive customers this year, led to much higher development costs than the Company had anticipated. Now
complete, the Board is confident these costs will be greatly reduced in this new financial year. 
With the growth in the automotive market expected to continue, the company has established a capacity
expansion plan which will address the key bottlenecks through process improvement and additional process
plant.
PEOPLE
The Company continues to have a strong and focused senior management team who have supported the business
constantly during the year, showing tremendous commitment to driving the Company forward to achieving it
goals.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their dedication and hard work during the year.
Kevin Johnson
Chief Executive
4 August 2011
Surface Transforms plc
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
7
