 SurfControl plc Chairman’s statement 01.
Invoicing for the year reached $106.6m,
turnover grew 19% to $87.3m, this
resulted in pre-tax profit of $14.4m 
and at the year end a cash balance of
$87.5m. The last five years have seen a
tremendous level of commitment and
drive from all our employees led in an
exemplary fashion by the executive
management. At the end of this fiscal
year the Group had 522 employees,
and I take this opportunity to thank
every one of them for all that they have
achieved for SurfControl. During my first
year as your Chairman I have had the
chance to meet our teams in the UK,
USA, Europe and in Australia, and I 
have found them facing the future with
confidence and determination. Our
results also reflect the strong and loyal
support of our business partners, and
I thank them for it. Most of all I thank
our customers for choosing our web,
e-mail and instant messaging products
and services.
The vision set out by Rob Barrow and
Steve Purdham some six years ago has
borne great fruit and today we can fairly
claim to be a world class software
company. The Group’s success has
been built upon the enthusiasm and
dedication shown by all the people at
SurfControl. It is their skill and expertise
which has allowed us to compete on
the world stage.
Any more than a few moments spent
on self congratulation would be foolish,
the world is not static – and in a
growing market such as ours the
competition only ever gets stronger.
During this past year we have put in
place a future strategy based on our
core capabilities and upon a thorough
analysis of our chosen markets and our
competition. We have created a platform
for future growth. You will see details of
our future roadmap in Steve’s Chief
Executive Strategic Review but already
we have made significant moves in
technology, geography and markets
with the acquisition of a Linux-based
filtering appliance and the establishment
of a sales and distribution operation in
the People’s Republic of China.
Your Board has changed in composition
to reflect our size and ambition. Rob
Barrow decided a year ago that the
time was right for him to step down as
Chairman. We thank and applaud Rob
for his tremendous contribution to our
company over many years. Two new
Non-Executive Directors have joined 
us: Jane Tozer and Rene Schuster,
strengthening our corporate governance
expertise and adding further breadth to
our international software and services
industry knowledge. We are now a
significant company and your Board
has also spent considerable time and
effort on ensuring we have appropriate
governance procedures in place.
Throughout this report you will see
examples of where we added new
and enhanced information about the
Group’s corporate governance position
and the requirements of the Revised
Combined Code.
I thank you, our shareholders, for your
confidence in our future and I hope
you find this report informative and
encouraging. I look forward to the
opportunity of personally meeting
with you, our shareholders, in the
coming year.
Greg Lock
Chairman of the Board
6 September 2004
In this, my first report to shareholders as the Chairman
of SurfControl, it gives me pleasure to report on a year
of strong results and continued growth.
Today we can fairly claim to be a
world class software company 
FACT: 30-40% OF INTERNET USE
IN THE WORKPLACE IS NOT
RELATED TO BUSINESS
(SOURCE: IDC, AUGUST 2004)
Greg Lock, Chairman
