 Chief executive’s report
for the year ended 31 May 2008
The Company has completed its first year of operations at the new Ellesmere Port site and the relocation, which
consolidated the activities of two previous sites, has delivered measurable improvements in productivity and
management team coordination.
Over the year the business has gained more stability in its revenues and over 80% of revenues derived from
automotive applications. In addition 69% of the revenue produced in the year has arisen from Continental
European markets.
The business in 2008 had 11 OEM and after market automotives clients; 3 in aircraft brake systems and 3 in
rocket components.
AUTOMOTIVE BRAKE SYSTEMS
The Company’s SystemST brake disc product is now on 28 car platforms to date and such cars are typically
priced in excess of —90,000. The main car platforms using SystemST in 2008 were:
Koenigsegg Automotive (www. Koenigsegg.sw)
SystemST brake discs are now on over 40 supercars and current production is between 24-30 cars per year.
Mov’it Gmbh (www.movit.de)
Mov’it is a leading European after market brake system supplier. Sales of SystemST have exceeded expectations
this year. On 22 September 2008 Mov’it signed a further supply agreement with the Company to purchase a
minimum of £300,000 to £400,000 brake discs per annum.
Weber Sport (www.Weber.sw)
Weber now has an established distributor network and will commence production this Autumn, targeting to
build between five and eight of the —1,000,000 price tagged supercars in the first year.
Tramontana (www. Tramontana.sp )
Tramontana, the Spanish supercar manufacturer build just 12 cars per annum and purchased six ceramic brake
car systems last year.
MM Industries Avocet 
The MMI Avocet is a newly built British sports car, launched to great interest on the ST Stand at Autosport 2008
at the NEC Birmingham in January, the 225hp Spyder version will be fitted with SystemST as standard. Final
production volume forecasts have not yet been released by MMI.
In April 2008, the Company signed a four year supply agreement to supply carbon fibre brake discs to a global
automotive brake system supplier.
The directors believe, based on forecasts prepared by the brakes system supplier, that this contract could generate
additional revenues of approximately £300,000 to £400,000 per annum over the life of the agreement, and that
the Company has sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet this demand. This agreement demonstrates that
Surface Transforms has the expertise in advanced carbon fibres and industrial fabrics which can provide a
competitive edge in composite brake technology, and takes the Company’s leading-edge products into the
forefront of the international automotive performance brake market. 
On 22 September 2008 Mov’it Gmbh, already an established customer of the Company, signed a new Supply
and Purchase contract to purchase annually, ceramic brake discs at a much higher level of volumes than had
been experienced in the previous year. The Board believes that this will amount to revenues in excess of between
£300,000 and £400,000 per annum.
Surface Transforms plc
n n n n n n n n n n
5 Chief executive’s report
continued
AEROSPACE
Aircraft Brake Systems
Revenues from aircraft brake systems are principally from paid development contracts. Revenues in 2008 in this
area have reduced in value from the previous year. One of our clients, Dunlop Braking Systems, a subsidiary of
Meggitt plc, has now merged with a key US competitor, and the combined operations now trade under Meggitt
Aircraft Braking Systems (MABS).
MABS has been and remains a key partner of the £1.34 million, three year collaborative R&D project funded by
the UK Technology Strategy Board (formerly the DTI). This project is being led by Surface Transforms.
In recent months, development work has commenced with a second US brake system supplier that supplies both
commercial and military aircraft principally in US markets. 
Rocket Components
Surface Transforms proprietary technology is uniquely positioned to deliver high performance (in terms of
extended life time and reduced mass), affordable ceramic rocket propulsion components.
The award of a £150,000, 3 year development contract with MBDA, a world leading missile manufacturer jointly
owned by BAE Systems, EADS and Finmeccanica, recognises the potential for Surface Transform’s material
technology.
In addition, interest from other defence contractors has been shown and the Board believe progress during this
financial year will lead to further development agreements.
PRODUCTION & NEW TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS
The development of CVIST, the carbon vapour infiltration process plant has taken longer than had been
expected. Technical challenges have arisen with the process plant capabilities and this has prolonged final
commissioning. We now believe we are in the final stages of commissioning and expect production parts to be
manufactured during the second half of the current financial year.
Improved machining and finishing operations in the manufacture of brake discs has contributed to the reduction
in the unit cost of a ceramic brake disc. Cost levels currently are 20 per cent below levels of May 2007 and the
CVIST process will contribute further to lowering unit costs.
PEOPLE
The Company has a strong senior management team who have now worked together for over two years. 
This year we have taken the opportunity to appoint two new senior engineers, Geoff Whitfield BSc, MSc, and
Martin Bell BEng (Hons) MIET to the management organisation. 
The blend of skills, experience and commitment has allowed the Company to build solid foundations and the
team are well equipped to continue the good progress made to date.
We have continued to incentivise our management and staff with share options, as we wish to align their rewards
with those of shareholders.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their dedication over the past year.
Dr. Kevin Johnson
Chief Executive
23 September 2008
Surface Transforms plc
n n n n n n n n n n
6
