 Chief executive’s report
for the year ended 31 May 2008
AUTOMOTIVE
High performance and Race car brake systems
Following the sharp economic decline within the automotive market, income from the automotive sector has
remained steady year on year with growth in overall turnover being achieved in other areas, as described below.
As a result, sales to automotive customers represented 65% of total turnover compared to 84% in 2008.
The Company has three main automotive contracts:
● Supply of ceramic discs to Mov’it GMBH – a leading European aftermarket brake system supplier. 
● Supply of carbon fibre brake discs to a global automotive brake system supplier.
● Supply of ceramic discs to Koenigsegg Automotive – supplier of high performance super cars.
Sales to Koenigsegg have remained strong; however revenue from the other two contracts, both with forecasted
annual revenues of £300,000-£400,000, has been significantly below the company’s initial expectations in 
July 2008. 
The Company recognises that trading conditions for the Company’s current automotive contracts will remain
difficult well into 2010. 
In addition to the Company’s existing contracts the Company continues to work to bring in new business,
receiving new orders from a US brake system supplier which has won the contract to supply approximately 20
prototype vehicles for the next generation of US military transport vehicle.
AEROSPACE
The company continues to work on development programmes with two aircraft brake system suppliers.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems (MABS) has been and remains a key partner of the £1.34 million, three year
collaborative R&D project funded by the UK Technology Strategy Board (formerly the DTI). This project is being
led by Surface Transforms.
The second development programme is with a US brake system supplier that supplies both commercial and
military aircraft principally in US markets. The Company and the customer are pleased with both the pace of
development and the technical advances made during the last 12 months, with the Company progressing
through a number of key technical milestones. 
It is always very difficult to predict the adoption of new technologies and the aerospace market is no different.
The Company expects the development programme with the US supplier to continue to progress, with the focus
on the development and commercialisation of the company’s proprietary carbon ceramic technology.
DEFENCE
Rocket Components
Surface Transforms carbon ceramic technology is uniquely positioned to deliver affordable, high performance (in
terms of extended life and reduced mass) rocket components.
During the last 12 months the company has seen the level of interest increase significantly, with the defence
sector providing more than 25% of the group’s revenues during the financial year. 
We have successfully completed year one of a three year development programme with MBDA, a world leading
missile manufacturer jointly owned by BAe Systems, EADS and Finmeccanica. The £150,000 contract of over
three years generated some positive results and lead to additional revenues from MBDA including an additional
contract in excess of £100,000 to further investigate and accelerate the development. We are also pleased that
the company has been officially awarded the year two contract with MBDA and continues to work closely with
MBDA who recognise the potential for the carbon ceramic technology and are focused on the development of
the material for use in its range of products. 
Surface Transforms plc
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
5 Chief executive’s report
continued
The company has signed a new contract for £75,000 over 3 years with the UK MoD (Ministry of Defence). The
programme although small is strategically important to the MoD with Surface Transforms technology offering the
potential of affordable, high performing ceramic composite components for the future. 
In addition the award of a £200,000, 2 year development contract with Microturbo, a world leading turbojet
engine manufacturer, for the development of carbon ceramic components for turbojet engines further recognises
the potential for use of the materials in demanding environments which require affordable solutions.
The company expects the defence sector to continue to make a significant contribution to the group revenues
going forward.
OPERATIONS
Affordability is a key requirement for all of our chosen markets, particularly with the current economic pressures
the world is facing. The development and commissioning of CVIST, the carbon vapour infiltration process plant
has been completed and has reduced the cost to manufacture a ceramic brake disc by 20%.
The operations team successfully achieved ISO 9001 accreditation in September 2008. An important milestone
for the business in terms of continuous improvements and a prerequisite to truly operating in our chosen market. 
In the autumn of 2008 the management recognised the change in trading conditions in the automotive sector
and took steps to reduce its operational cost base by £200,000. The savings came from two areas. Some non-
recurring costs associated with achieving ISO accreditation and bringing the CVIST plant online as well as a
reduction in production resources to reflect the reduced demand in two of our main automotive contracts.
PEOPLE
The company has a strong senior management team who have shown tremendous commitment and maturity
during the last 12 months.
The blend of skills, experience and determination within the team means we are well placed to continue the
good progress made to date.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their dedication over the past year.
Dr. Kevin Johnson
Chief Executive
12 August 2009
Surface Transforms plc
■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
6
