 4 Surgical Innovations Group plc
ar09.surginnoir.com
Annual report and accounts 2009
Chairman’s statement
Introduction
I am pleased to report another year of 
significant progress during which the Group 
has substantially scaled up its operations 
to take full advantage of the opportunities 
in the global laparoscopic surgery market. 
Some revenue growth was achieved in 2009, 
with sales of £4,541,000 (2008: £4,312,000) 
resulting in retained profits of £525,000 (2008: 
£630,000). At first glance, the results may seem 
disappointing, but shareholders should be 
encouraged by the comments and explanations 
on both current performance and the outlook 
given later in the statement. I believe that the 
current year will show a significant advance 
in all areas of the business as the investment 
made starts to produce impressive returns.
The business has undergone a transformation 
since the move into the new building in 
April 2008 and particularly in the last 
twelve months. During this time, the Group 
has invested £1.3 million in machinery 
and infrastructure, £1.0 million in product 
development and more than doubled the 
total number of employees to approximately 
90 people. This demonstrates belief in the 
Group’s strategy of focusing on the core 
business of Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) 
and flex technology . The Group has seen notable 
commercial gains in the last month of 2009 
and first quarter of 2010, testament to the 
investment made since moving into our 
new facility. 
Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS)
The Group is confident that its MIS business 
will develop in accordance with its three-year 
plan. Our laparoscopic instrumentation 
is becoming increasingly accepted as we 
expand our cost-effective product offerings. 
To complement the laparoscopic business 
and buoyed by previous successes in 
technology transfer , we are actively moving 
into new areas of keyhole surgery. We are 
currently working with surgeons in the fields 
of Arthroscopy , Cardiovascular and Veterinary 
as we look to apply our instrumentation, 
intellectual property and expertise into 
these new markets.
US success
During 2009, the Group reviewed its 
US operations to maximise the opportunities 
open to it. I am pleased to announce that 
we have successfully established a route 
to market and actively raised the awareness 
of the Surgical Innovations brand and our 
product portfolio across America.
The Group’s strategy was to separate our 
YelloPort+plus
®
 laparoscopic port access 
system from our US Master Dealer, SI USA, 
enabling us to sell these products directly 
to distributors and laparoscopic instrument 
management companies, also known as tray 
companies. This has been achieved and, as a 
result, we have now appointed a network of 
independent distribution partners covering the 
East Coast, West Coast and Central States.
This has enabled our US Master Dealer to 
focus their efforts solely on the Logi
®
Range 
of resposable instruments, a move which 
resulted in the signing of two three-year 
contracts with Premier Purchasing Partners, LP , 
the group purchasing unit of Premier, Inc. 
(“Premier”), one of the largest Group Purchasing 
Organisations (GPOs) in the US. GPOs help 
hospitals reduce costs by aggregating volume 
to negotiate favourable purchasing terms 
Doug Liversidge CBE
Non-executive Chairman
Summary of Chairman’s statement
w  We are now focused on our core MIS 
business and developing this outside 
of the laparoscopic field.
w  The current year will show a significant 
advance in all areas of the business.
w  Substantial growth in scale through 
our OEM partnerships. 
View the Chairman’s statement online at 
ar09.surginnoir .com/chairman Surgical Innovations Group plc
ar09.surginnoir.com
Annual report and accounts 2009 5
Review of the year Governance Accounts
with vendors and this agreement provides 
an opportunity for SI to gain access to their 
2,200 member hospitals. This represents a 
considerable proportion of all US hospitals 
and provides the Group with significant access 
to the US laparoscopic instrumentation market, 
estimated to be worth $150 million per annum. 
One contract, for our resposable instruments, 
has already commenced and another, for our 
reusable instruments, is due to commence 
in April 2010. The Group is delighted with the 
current level of instrument business it is now 
achieving in the US, justifying the approach 
we have taken. 
The Group continues to develop relationships 
with some of the largest tray companies in 
the US such as Surgical Service Inc. (SSI), 
which will see YelloPort+plus
®
 placed in their 
tray systems in hospitals throughout the 
country. SI’s Resposable
®
 concept offers a 
“win win” situation for tray companies as it 
combines both disposal and reusable elements, 
offering both functionality and cost 
effectiveness. 
International launch of Logi
®
Flex
During 2009, we successfully launched 
Logi
®
Flex, an articulating instrument 
designed to assist laparoscopic surgeons 
with the accurate placement of gastric 
bands. The device was unveiled at the World 
Congress of the International Federation 
for the Surgery of Obesity and Metabolic 
Disorders (IFSO) and was well received 
at the event, being described by surgeons 
as an ‘innovative cost-effective solution’ .
It was clear from the outset that the key 
market for this instrument is the US, due 
to the fact that obesity affects more than 
60 million US citizens and is the second 
largest cause of preventable death. It is 
also estimated that there are 250,000 
annual bariatric procedures in the US 
where the Logi
®
Flex device can be used. 
As a consequence, we have submitted a 
510K for FDA approval for Logi
®
Flex and 
anticipate that this will be received in the 
second quarter of 2010.
Our Master Dealer is currently preparing 
a product launch involving both attendance 
at bariatric exhibitions and obtaining inclusion 
within the current Premier contracts as soon 
as FDA approval is received. The Group looks 
forward to reporting further on this later in 
the year.
Original Equipment Manufacture (OEM)
The Group plans for SI to achieve substantial 
growth in scale over the next twelve months 
and beyond through our OEM partnerships 
with major medical device companies. It is 
notable how the development resources of 
these companies have become stretched as 
a result of consolidation and the number of 
products they have to support. SI can offer 
an effective solution, providing expertise in 
the design and development of an instrument 
combined with the manufacturing capability 
to produce a final device ready for ultimate sale.
The solution proved to be extremely effective in 
2009, culminating in negotiations with one of 
our OEM partners which we expect to result in 
a major contract in the second quarter of 2010.
Single Port Access (SPA)
To complement the increasing number 
of single, rather than traditional multi port 
access systems, we took the strategic decision 
to concentrate our development focus on the 
flexible instrumentation required for successful 
SPA surgery. We have a worldwide reputation 
for flex technology and this is proving beneficial 
as we continue to receive interest from a number 
of leading companies wishing to gain access 
to this technology. 
The Group has substantially scaled up its 
operations to take full advantage of the 
opportunities in the global laparoscopic 
surgery market. 6 Surgical Innovations Group plc
ar09.surginnoir.com
Annual report and accounts 2009
Chairman’s statement continued
Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) continued
Licensing
Following our decision to improve our 
licensed Diamond-Flex
®
 product, we created 
new intellectual property with a new innovative 
flex device. We are in negotiations with our 
licensee regarding the new technology 
and the Group looks forward to providing 
a further update in due course. 
Whilst licensing our own IP , we are also 
in discussions with various companies 
to license technology into SI. This will result 
in exclusive manufacturing and sales rights 
to SI and royalty payments or joint venture 
arrangements sharing both risk and reward. 
There has been increased activity in this 
area as a consequence of SI’s enhanced 
reputation within the medical device sector 
and is testament to our strategy of in-house 
manufacturing and design. 
Industrial solutions
We are excited about the growth of the Group’s 
business providing industrial solutions for major 
international companies. The solutions are 
based on our core technology developed over 
the years in our surgical instruments business.
During the year our design team was involved 
extensively in the development of an industrial 
solution for one of our key industrial partners. 
As a result of our efforts we received an order 
for £616,000, of which £480,000 was due to 
be invoiced in December 2009. Due to third 
party technical difficulties, which were outside 
of our control, we were unable to deliver our 
contractually completed part of the order prior 
to the year end. This had a significant impact 
on the results for the year.
I am however pleased to report that the 
technical issues have now been resolved 
and we are scheduled to deliver the completed 
order in April 2010. Encouragingly, we have 
received a further order for a new prototype 
based on the success of the first project. 
This should result in a substantial device 
order for delivery in the second half of 2010. 
We believe that there is scope to develop and 
expand the business using our core technology . 
To maximise this potential and to provide clear 
differentiated focus, we may relocate this 
business to a more appropriate geographical 
setting with close customer proximity.
Autologous Blood Transfusion (ABT)
I indicated in my previous Chairman’s statement 
that difficult issues had to be addressed in 2009, 
including a decision on our ABT business. 
After a strategic review of the opportunities 
for ABT, the Board concluded that the 
investment required, both in cash and 
management time, will be too great to 
support within the Company, especially 
given the ever-growing opportunities 
in the core business.
Therefore the Board has made the decision 
to look for a purchaser for the ABT business 
operated under the Haemocell brand or, 
alternatively, for a joint venture partner. 
In addition to the know-how, there are 
attractive tax losses potentially available 
to a new owner of the business.
Whilst a suitable exit is being sought, 
the Board has made the decision to 
write-off all assets relating to the ABT 
business resulting in a £200,000 reduction 
in the Group’s operating profits. 
Employees and infrastructure 
Over the last twelve months the Group 
has invested £1.3 million in both machinery 
and infrastructure, £1.0 million in product 
development and more than doubled the 
total number of employees to approximately 
90 people at a time when other companies 
have been forced to make redundancies. 
We have made staff appointments in all 
areas of the business: production, design, 
quality, HR and business development. 
As part of this investment we commissioned 
a “state-of-the-art” class 100,000 cleanroom 
With an employee base of 90 and investment 
in all areas of the organisation, we are able 
to meet the challenges of rapid growth within 
the business experienced in the later months 
of 2009 and start of 2010. Surgical Innovations Group plc
ar09.surginnoir.com
Annual report and accounts 2009 7
Review of the year Governance Accounts
to improve the efficiency and quality of our 
manufacturing processes. The enhanced 
cleanroom resources will give us sufficient 
capacity to assemble increasing volumes 
of our own and OEM single use devices. 
Additionally, it provides a platform to move 
into the next phase of our manufacturing 
strategy; bringing plastic injection moulding 
back in-house during 2010. 
In 2009, we invested in the creation of our 
laparoscopic training centre, which was 
officially opened by Business Minister, 
Lord Davies in February 2010. The training 
centre is ideal for product evaluation as it 
allows members of the SI design team to 
view at first hand surgeons using SI prototypes 
within a simulated clinical environment.
Outlook
The Group has resolved the difficult issues 
and financially they are accounted for within 
the 2009 results. We are now focused on our 
core MIS business and developing this outside 
of the laparoscopic field. With an employee 
base of 90 and investment in all areas of the 
organisation, we are able to meet the challenges 
of rapid growth within the business experienced 
in the later months of 2009 and start of 2010.
With 2010 year-to-date revenue at an all time 
high and a £2 million short-term order book, 
coupled with new OEM contracts in prospect, 
I am extremely confident about the future 
for the Group. 
To reflect this confidence the Board has 
decided to apply to the Court to offset the 
holding company’s accumulated losses 
against the share premium account. If, as 
we expect, this proposal is ultimately approved 
by shareholders in general meeting, the Board 
will be in a position to implement a dividend 
strategy. We are conscious that SI has over 
4,500 shareholders and whilst the primary 
objective is capital gain, we feel that when 
appropriate, payment of a dividend will be 
made to reflect the loyalty of our many 
private investors.
In conclusion I am extremely proud of 
the progress being made and, in particular , 
of Graham Bowland, our Managing Director, 
who has worked tirelessly and with great 
commitment to develop the Company . I am 
also grateful for the support of my fellow 
Directors and to our loyal and able workforce 
for their contribution to the Company.
I look forward to reporting on a very exciting 
period in the development of the Company.
Doug Liversidge
Chairman
31 March 2010
We are excited about the 
growth of the Group’s business 
providing industrial solutions for 
major international companies.
£1.3m
Invested in machinery and infrastructure
£1.0m
Invested in product development
