 Chairman’s Statement Greg Lock
02. SurfControl plc Annual report 2005
Your company grew revenue and EBITDA,
and generated significant levels of cash 
flow during the year ending 30 June 2005.
We have broadened our product line and
enhanced its function and effectiveness, our
products have won a number of awards and
we have solidified our position as a global
leader in Enterprise Threat Protection. With all
this I am pleased but with one measure of our
performance I am not satisfied; we grew our
invoicing volumes by just 2%, a result which
demands improvement.
Your Board began a thorough review of our
activities in December 2004 and concluded
that we needed to enhance the experience 
of the executive team. The most significant
result of this is the appointment of 
Patricia C. Sueltz as CEO with effect from 
1 July 2005. Pat brings years of experience in
senior executive roles at IBM, Sun Microsystems
where she led the global services business
and most recently SalesForce.com where she
was President of Global Operations. Pat has
lived and worked in the UK as well as the 
USA and has begun the task of upgrading 
our capabilities and  of putting in place 
the  organisational structure, systems and
processes which will allow us to realise our
growth ambitions. We are delighted that an
executive of Pat’s calibre and experience has
chosen to lead us at this exciting time.
We have a very strong platform from which to
accelerate the growth in our market position.
Our balance sheet is strong; we are a leader in
a large and growing market and our product
line has never been stronger. In addition 
our customers, partners and employees 
are valuable assets, for their support I thank
them sincerely.
Great credit for this strength is due to the
outstanding leadership of Steve Purdham
whose passion, insight and entrepreneurial
flair has driven our Company for the last five
years. Steve’s efforts and achievements have
been a major factor in establishing our
leadership in Unified Threat Management,
his foresight in anticipating market needs 
and in driving our response in products and
services have been invaluable.
We are determined to make the investments
in our “go to market” capabilities which will fit
us for future growth. Your Board and the
executive team are committed to make the
changes necessary to compete vigorously
and delight our customers and partners;
we shall be both relentless and rigorous in 
our execution as we strive to make your
Company more valuable.
Greg Lock
Chairman of the Board
5 September 2005
We are one of the world’ s leading IT
security companies with revenues
of close to $100m.
