 Q What will Augean do to increase proﬁtability?
A Building our position in the growth markets and targeting 
further proﬁtable revenue growth from added value 
services are key drivers of proﬁtability improvement. Further 
margin growth will come from operational efﬁciencies as 
we progress initiatives to realise lower cost end-to-end 
processing including accessing optimum energy-from-waste 
capacity.
Q What has changed in the strategy? What will stop? 
What will remain and what will be new?
A The strategy, which is summarised in the Strategic Report, 
represents a further emphasis on getting closer to clients to 
deliver specialist services based on Augean’s hazardous and 
radioactive waste management capabilities. As a matter of 
principle we intend to stop lower margin value destroying 
activities, thus reducing our dependence on broker trade 
and exiting national coverage of transfer stations. The sale 
of our Waste Networks business exempliﬁes this, as this 
business was based on broker trade, and one-removed 
from the waste producer, thus preventing the client-focused 
service strategy. We remain committed to maintaining and 
developing the key assets in treatment and landﬁll that make 
Augean a ‘go-to’ company for specialist waste management 
capability. What will be new is a focus on securing more 
long-term contracts where Augean is providing direct clients 
with innovative solutions in which support services are a key 
component, supported by a wider ‘Integrator’ capability. In 
addition, we will be offering a broader array of North Sea 
services and intensifying our radioactive waste focus.
Q What are the key market trends in waste management 
from Augean’s perspective?
A The latest Environment Agency data shows broadly 
ﬂat overall volumes of hazardous waste consigned by 
producers. Augean is growing revenues in this market 
because, ﬁrstly, we are focused on growth sectors, 
particularly hazardous and radioactive wastes arising from 
oil & gas, nuclear decommissioning and energy from waste 
and, secondly, we are progressing our strategy of carrying 
out more added value treatment and services.
Q How is Augean organised to address its preferred 
sectors?
A We have carried out some reorganisation to align our 
business with the key markets conﬁrmed by our recent 
strategy work. The Oil & Gas sector is served by Augean 
North Sea Services, the subsidiary company in which the 
Group now owns 81%. The division previously titled Oil & 
Gas Services will be renamed to conﬁrm its focus on the 
reﬁnery, chemicals and manufacturing sectors. The creation 
of the new Radioactive Waste Services division provides a 
direct face to the nuclear and radioactives markets, with a 
remit to grow added-value services. Land Resources will 
continue to sharpen our focus on the fast growing energy 
from waste sector, as well as the continuing importance of 
the soils and demolition waste market. Our new Integrated 
Services division will accelerate the development of our 
services to total waste management customers. 
IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT 
SINCE HIS APPOINTMENT AS CEO, 
DR STEWART DAVIES SHARES HIS 
VIEWS ON THE AUGEAN BUSINESS 
AND THE FUTURE FOR THE GROUP.
04
www.augeanplc.com Stock code: AUG
Q&A with Stewart Davies, Chief Executive Q Where is Augean strong, and where must Augean build 
capability?
A Augean has strong positions in UK hazardous waste, owning 
approximately half of the forward landﬁll capacity in the UK 
with planning and permitting secured. We have an excellent 
reputation for our rigorous approach to technical issues and 
compliance, including being the only waste management 
operator to have a UKAS-accredited laboratory which 
ensures that our decisions are based on the highest 
standards of testing. We are proud of the expertise of 
our people, be they front-line employees carrying out our 
stringent waste management procedures, front-ofﬁce staff 
interfacing with our customers or directors meeting with 
regulators and policy makers to discuss the most effective 
way to deliver the UK’s strategy and policies for hazardous 
waste management.
 We will build on our expertise in our key markets so that 
we can fulﬁl a more innovative partnering role with our 
customers as we address together the developing waste 
management needs of their sector. Our capability in 
delivering solutions for customers that include services 
and client-site facilities will be developed, learning from the 
successes of the North Sea Services business and the ﬁrst 
contracts of Augean Integrated Services.
Q How will you approach investment and dividend 
payments?
A With a three year track record in improving proﬁtability, 
a commitment to taking this further and a strong list of 
opportunities for the Group to invest for growth, Augean is 
well-positioned to pursue a strategy which will grow returns 
from investments. We do not see this as tightly linked to 
the UK macro-economic cycle as the Group’s key markets 
are more strongly inﬂuenced by investment in infrastructure 
in sectors that have different drivers, for example North 
Sea decommissioning. As a growth company, Augean 
will continue to have opportunities to provide returns on 
investment projects that exceed the return required by 
shareholders – our project hurdle rate is >15% Internal 
Rate of Return pre-tax. Thus to progress the strategy most 
effectively, investment for growth will be required, whilst 
seeking to progressively increase dividend payments year 
on year. 
Q How will you utilise the Group’s debt facilities?
A Our strategy is to increase cash from operations, providing 
funds for growth, supported by appropriate debt facilities. 
As long as there continue to be investment opportunities 
that advance the Group’s strategy and deliver returns 
over the hurdle rate, investing in these opportunities will 
use a combination of operating cash and debt. The new 
debt ﬁnancing arrangements with HSBC conﬁrm that the 
business is in shape to carry up to the £15m debt facility. 
Q What principles guide Augean’s approach to 
acquisitions?
A Buying our way into new markets risks destroying 
shareholder value unless there are operational and market 
synergies that we are conﬁdent can be delivered. Our most 
recent experience, buying into North Sea Services, has 
beneﬁted from the ability to process materials internally 
within the Group and sell the combined capabilities to the 
market successfully. We will apply this learning in the future 
as we consider potential acquisitions that would accelerate 
the Group’s strategy and enhance shareholder returns.
Q Where will the Group be in three years time?
A We expect to be more proﬁtable, larger scale and more 
strongly positioned as a leader in our target market sectors. 
More of our business will be in long term contracts with 
Tier 1 waste-producing customers who value the solutions 
we provide on their sites as well as in our own facilities. 
The Group will generate a higher proportion of its proﬁts 
coming from services and treatment, and will be recycling 
and recovering resources from more of the waste it is 
managing. Recognised as an expert and innovative player 
in the industry, we will be at the top-table discussing the 
development of the UK’s hazardous waste management 
strategy. The increased resilience of our businesses 
will support shareholder conﬁdence and should sustain 
improved shareholder returns.
05
Overview
Augean PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
Strategic Report
