 “THE BOARD HAS PROPOSED A 
40% INCREASE IN THE DIVIDEND 
PAYMENT...”
Jim Meredith
Non-executive Chairman
2013 was a year of signiﬁcant change for the Group, 
during which the business delivered improved revenues 
and proﬁt from continuing operations, whilst continuing to 
grow in key markets. 
Net revenue for the year, excluding landﬁll tax and inter-
segment trading, increased by 10% to £40.3m (2012: 
£36.8m). The total proﬁt attributable to our shareholders 
before exceptional items (including impairment charges 
for the write off of assets and goodwill associated with 
the closed Waste Network division) was £2.4m (2012: 
£1.7m). Operating cash ﬂows of £5.9m (2012: £5.8m) 
supported an enhanced level of capital investment and an 
increase to our stake in the Augean North Sea Services 
business, taking our holding to 81%.
The year began with the departure of Paul Blackler and 
the appointment of Dr Stewart Davies as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer. Stewart is now well established within the 
business and has brought the fresh thinking and insight 
the Board hoped for at the time of his appointment. The 
new strategy for the Group, developed by Stewart and his 
management team with input from the Board, is outlined 
below, conﬁrming our belief that Augean has numerous 
realisable opportunities to support growth of the business 
in the coming months and years.
During the year the Group continued to be restructured 
and reshaped to ensure that the business was fully 
focused on our key markets in hazardous waste, Air 
Pollution Control Residues (APCR) management, 
radioactive waste disposal and North Sea oil and gas. 
These changes included the decision to close the Waste 
Network division and offer certain sites and assets for 
sale, a process which is now complete. 
As in the previous year there were improvements to health 
and safety performance during 2013. Health and safety 
continues to be the number one priority of the Board and 
management across the Group and we were pleased to 
note a second consecutive year with a 25% decline in 
accidents. The Augean North Sea Services business led 
the way in safety standards, recording eight years without 
a lost time incident in offshore operations. The Board is 
well aware of the dangers for our staff working in offshore 
environments as well as those onshore associated 
with the handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous 
wastes. This commitment to high standards of safety was 
underlined by the activities of the Health & Safety scrutiny 
committee, led by a non-executive director and reporting 
directly to the Board, which further enhanced health and 
safety leadership within the business during the year. 
I was pleased to note the addition of new shareholders to 
our register during the year and continued support from 
many of our longer-holding investors. The improvement in 
share price represented another step forward in ensuring 
that the Group provides growth in the returns for all 
investors, whilst the Board remains focused on improving 
the returns from capital employed. 
I believe that Augean is stronger now than at any point 
during the past ﬁve years. Reﬂecting that conﬁdence, 
the Board has proposed a 40% increase in the dividend 
payment to 0.35p per share and has agreed to 
progressively increase the dividend in the coming years, 
in line with improvements to business performance. 
With improving economic conditions in the UK, a 
refreshed strategy and several new opportunities under 
development I look forward to another year of growth and 
enhanced returns for shareholders during 2014.
Jim Meredith
Non-executive Chairman 
25 March 2014
03
Overview
Augean PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
