 Section heading
Cyril Sweett Group plc 5
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Chairman’s statement
Welcome
I have pleasure in presenting our Annual Report for the year ended
31 March 2009.
Cyril Sweett had a strong year of growth and development,
exceeding its past performance in revenue and profitability, before
exceptional expenses, thereby meeting market expectations on this
basis. This robust performance reflects the swift and decisive
actions taken by management during the period to pro-actively
manage the downturn. Trading conditions in the construction and
property sector in particular have been tough and are likely to
remain uncertain for some time. Given these tough conditions, 
I am pleased with the overall strong performance of the Group.
It has been a year of adjustment for the Group. At the beginning 
of the year acquisitions were completed to advance our strategy 
to grow the Group globally, further diversify the business and
secure a greater proportion of UK public sector workload. All 
of the acquisitions have been successfully integrated into the Group 
and we are delighted that, having joined us, the excellent senior
management have embraced their new roles in the enlarged
organisation. 
By the mid point in the year, our expectation of a toughening
economic climate had been realised, and management took the
difficult but necessary action to right size the cost base of the
business to fit the market conditions. This responsive action,
combined with our strong balance sheet and net cash position, 
has ensured a robust business that will be able to flex and adjust 
to future market conditions.
Each member of the management team has experience of
dealing with recessions in the past, and the recent appointment 
of Chris Goscomb as Chief Financial Officer has further
strengthened the Executive. All of Cyril Sweett’s management 
and staff upheld excellent standards throughout the year by
continuing to develop new business and deliver high quality advice
and services to our clients. Our people are central to our success
and without their diligence and spirit we would not have delivered
such a good performance. On behalf of the Group Board I would
like to thank them sincerely for all their hard work.
As reported at the half year, I shall become non-executive
Chairman following the September AGM, but I do so with full
confidence that the Executive Team is well placed to steer the
Group through this difficult period and to continue to diversify the
business to meet opportunities as they arise. 
Outlook
We anticipate that the retail and commercial markets will remain
uncertain for some time and there is likely to be some slowdown
in UK public expenditure from early 2010. Overseas markets will
also depend on the economic welfare of each individual country
or region, and some will fare better than others. Whilst we will
therefore be responsive to the short-term environment and focus
on our strong market positions, we will also look to develop the
business in line with our 2012 Strategic Plan. This will drive the
extension of our offering into new sectors in the UK, the
development of our position as a leader in sustainable
development and the establishment of our services in a wider
range of territories overseas.
With a clear focus on operational development, cash
management and client delivery, we are confident that the
business will emerge from the downturn stronger and leaner 
and will be well placed to benefit from the recovery. 
Francis Ives – Chairman
I am pleased with the 
overall strong performance 
of the Group.
‘‘
Francis Ives Chairman
