 Chairman’s statement
Michael Henderson
Chairman
Read more about your Chairman
P32
It has been a year of great progress for  
your Company. We have a business with an 
integrated offering, a global network of 58 
offices in 18 countries across five continents 
and our operating markets have improved.  
We have gained important market share  
and the geographic, sectorial and personnel 
diversity, scale and shape of the business  
have enabled us to benefit from this improving 
trend in the form of increased profitability 
driven by mainly organic growth.
The UK market specifically has improved 
with the economy now growing at nearly 
3% a year, which is encouraging for  
Sweett Group as our UK business remains 
our largest and most established entity, 
accounting for over 50% of Group turnover 
in the year ended 31 March 2014. I am 
pleased to report that the UK business  
is gaining market share as, in particular,  
our investment in the infrastructure and 
energy sectors has paid off. In addition, 
great progress has been made with larger 
international clients, many of which are  
now using Sweett Group across several 
regions, which is a gratifying trend and 
which is taking us into new markets.
We are two years into our three year strategic 
plan which I am pleased to report has been 
extended by a further year to account for the 
considerable progress made to date and the 
improving markets, particularly in our more 
established geographies, such as the UK. 
As one of the few remaining players who can 
offer a truly independent service with global 
capability, we are in a solid position to benefit 
from the improvements which we see and 
we are well placed to build on the strong 
foundations for the next phase of our growth, 
with a well-established UK and European 
business and a scale position in APAC,  
a segment which has almost doubled in size 
over the last three years and is approaching 
critical mass. The CEO’s review which follows 
this statement goes into more detail around 
the Group’s strategy to 2016.
Financial performance
Revenue for the year was up 10.9%  
to £89.4m (2013: £80.6m) and profit  
before tax was up 59% to £2.8m (2013: 
£1.8m) after exceptionals, amortisation of  
acquired intangibles and net finance costs. 
Stripping out the one off benefit of £1.0m 
from the unwinding of the Australian hedge 
contract, the £1.2m financial close of Leeds 
Social Housing and the sale of hub North, 
underlying profits were £3.2m, up 23% 
(2013: £2.6m). Whilst operating margins 
were down slightly year on year at 2.6% 
(2013: 2.9%), basic earnings per share  
was up 47% to 2.8p (2013: 1.9p).
Net debt at the year-end was further reduced 
to £6.3m (2013: £7 . 1m) and well below the 
peak of £11m in 2012. Much focus has  
been put on improving our working capital 
management, with a priority being placed 
specifically on our needs in APAC. 
Sweett Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 06 Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
Chairman
4
1
3
0 – 2 years
3 – 10 years
10+ years
25%
25%
50%
Construction
Finance
Other
50%
37.5%
12.5%
Governance
Board composition
Board of Directors
Michael Henderson 
Chairman
Dean Webster 
Chief Executive Officer
Patrick Sinclair 
Chief Financial Officer
Derek Pitcher 
Managing Director
Kim Berry 
Managing Director
Nicholas Woollacott 
Non-Executive Director
Roger Mabey 
Non-Executive Director
David Wilton 
Non-Executive Director
For more information:
P32
The Directors have recommended a final 
dividend of 0.8p per share (2013: 0.7p) 
which will make a total dividend of 1.3p for 
the year, an increase of 30% (2013: 1.0p), 
illustrating the Board’s confidence in the 
future of the Group.
Wall Street Journal allegations
The Company has made announcements 
regarding allegations made in the Wall Street 
Journal in June 2013 of improper business 
conduct by a former employee of the Group 
operating in the Middle East. Discussions are 
ongoing with the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) 
in the UK and with the Department of Justice 
(DOJ) in the US. The Group is co-operating 
with both these organisations and no 
proceedings have been issued by either  
of them. The Group has commissioned  
a further independent investigation into  
the allegations by Mayer Brown LLP .
In response to the allegations made in  
the Wall Street Journal, the Company  
has identified the need to further improve  
our internal controls and risk procedures, 
particularly in locations where we have fewer 
numbers of staff. A separate governance 
function has been created which will work 
closely with our Finance function, the Audit 
Committee and our internal auditors, KPMG. 
Most importantly, all our clients and staff 
remain loyal and the underlying business  
is not affected.
People
In January 2014, we welcomed Patrick 
Sinclair to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer. Patrick has already made a positive 
contribution to the business. In addition,  
a number of senior level appointments  
were made during the year including Philip 
Watt joining as Company Secretary in 
September 2013. 
We continue to grow our team and evolve 
employment practices and policies to 
ensure we are able to attract and retain  
the best talent and I was delighted that 
Sweett Group received “Investors in People” 
accreditation in the UK during the year. 
We have an exceptional team of people and 
our success is due to their professionalism, 
creativity and commitment. I would like to 
thank the Sweett Group team in particular 
for their hard work and commitment.
Tenure
Experience
I would also like to thank my Board and senior 
colleagues for their help and support during 
my four years as Chairman. We experienced 
extreme recessionary conditions in our 
traditional markets and various setbacks in 
the first three years, but with a clear strategy 
combined with the professionalism of my 
executive colleagues around the world,  
we have seen the Group through this difficult 
period. I therefore leave at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting with a certain 
amount of pride in what has been achieved 
by them. Also leaving with me at the Annual 
General Meeting will be Nick Woollacott,  
a Non-Executive Director, who has served  
on the Board with great distinction for  
the last seven years and latterly as the 
Senior Independent Director. Nick has  
led the Nominations Committee in 
choosing my successor as Chairman  
and an announcement on this appointment 
will be made shortly.
Outlook
The Group is trading well as we continue to 
gain market share and leverage the benefits 
of our global network while benefiting from 
the improving economic environment in 
some of our key markets. As we move 
forwards with an order book of £109m,  
an improving margin trend and a tighter 
focus on working capital, the Board looks 
to the future with increased confidence.
Michael Henderson
Chairman
30 June 2014
Strategic report
Sweett Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 07
Governance Financial statements
