 Introduction
Cyril Sweett, as a top ten international construction and property
consultancy, offers expert advice in project management, quantity
surveying, management consultancy and a comprehensive range 
of specialist services. 
The Group services a range of construction and property related
projects across public and private sectors including offices, retail
and mixed use, health, education, prisons, residential, life sciences,
transport and infrastructure. The strength and resilience of Cyril
Sweett continues to be based on the Group’s diverse and balanced
sector penetration, combined with wide UK and international
geographical coverage. This enables the Group to manage the
cycles of both public and private sector investment by being equally
responsive to opportunities and threats in each. At the same time,
the skills, mobility and working practices of our people enable
them to operate flexibly across sectors and project locations. 
The Group is structured geographically to ensure effective regional
management and local service delivery. The Group has nineteen
branch offices in the UK, three more in Europe, two in the Middle
East, one in India, three in Australia and one in Singapore. These
are further supported by an alliance network offering services in
over 20 other locations throughout the remainder of Europe, the
Middle East and Asia Pacific regions. 
The Group has a number of differentiators; a strong position in its
key markets, which are well balanced between the public and private
sectors; the Cyril Sweett brand, which has a strong reputation and is
recognised as a consultant to large projects and a strong ethos of
employee ownership, which sets us apart from our competitors. 
We aim to develop each employee to maximise their full potential.
Employee ownership clearly drives cross-selling throughout the
Group, encourages new people to join and supports retention of 
the best people. We benefit from having clear visibility of future
earnings. Our order book, which stands at £86m, is the strongest 
it has ever been as a result of our drive to diversify. We adopt a
conservative approach to valuing our order book and exclude
anticipated contracts under framework agreements. The increasing
rationalisation of supply chains and moves towards framework
06 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Business review
Strategy and
performance
Dean Webster, Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive’s review
Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Business review
07 07
“Cyril Sweett is a diversified business,
operating in both the public and private
sectors and we are well positioned 
to capitalise on new growth sectors 
in the market both in the UK and
internationally.”
agreements, combined with our ability to deliver on major, long-
term projects, means we are in a position to accurately predict
future revenues and adapt to changing circumstances. 
The flotation raised £8.4m net of expenses. With first mover
advantage, by being the only quoted consultancy amongst our
major UK competitors, we are in a strong position to be a leading
player in the consolidation of what is currently a highly fragmented
construction consultancy market. With cash on the balance sheet,
strong banking support, and a proven acquisition model, we are
able to continue to make further significant acquisitions both in the
UK and overseas.
Group strategy
We operate in markets where there are two main opportunities for
growth. In the UK, consolidation of a highly fragmented market has
begun and is expected to accelerate over the short to medium
term. Internationally the growth in construction activity in
developing markets, coupled with high demand for UK-style
quantity surveying and project management expertise, creates a
significant opportunity. Success in implementing our international
diversification strategy is evidenced by the growth in our overseas
order book.
Key strengths
Market position
We operate across a wide number of areas split almost equally
between the public and private sectors. In those in which we are
pre-eminent, such as health, Public Private Partnerships (PPP) 
and retail, we offer a much wider service offer than our competitors.
With dedicated and experienced teams in all of our sectors, together
with an excellent UK network of offices we are well placed to
increase our market share. We are rapidly expanding our overseas
coverage and are building a strong order book with both new and
existing clients. The Cyril Sweett brand has a strong reputation 
and we are known for our ability to undertake large projects.
People development
Our ethos of employee ownership provides a clear differentiator
between us and our competitors. We believe that if our people
invest in our company we should invest in our people. We aim to
develop each and every member of staff to their full potential, and
to do the same for new staff when they join the Group. The sense 
of ownership that our staff have in the company, drives not only 
a commitment to understand and to help our clients, but also a
willingness to work collaboratively with colleagues. We see that
employee ownership drives cross-selling throughout our company,
encourages new people to join the business and supports our
desire to improve retention levels. 
Visibility of earnings
Our order book is the strongest it has ever been as a result of our
drive to diversify – offering more services across more markets
both in the UK and overseas. The increasing rationalisation 
of supply chains and moves towards framework agreements,
combined with our ability to deliver on major, long term projects,
means we can accurately predict future revenues across our
operation and adapt to changing circumstances. 
Growth opportunities
Our flotation raised £8.4m of cash. With bank support, and an
acquisition model based on a mixture of cash and shares, we 
are able to make further significant acquisitions both in the UK 
and overseas.
With first mover advantage, by being the only quoted consultancy
amongst our competitors, we are in a strong position to be a
leading player in the consolidation of what is currently a highly
fragmented construction consultancy market.
Proven track record
Year on year the Group’s revenues have continued to grow, with 
an average increase of over 18% per annum – and profits growing
at a similar rate. We are still experiencing strong demand in most
sectors and, in fact, still find the sourcing of good new people to be
our biggest challenge. If, therefore, there is a softening in the UK
market, we see this as an opportunity to source new recruits 
more easily, increase market share where we have competitive
advantage, source acquisitions at more competitive prices, and
switch resources flexibly from location to location.  Review of operations
Cyril Sweett has achieved outstanding organic growth since its
management buy out in 1998. A main focus for the Group is to
continue on this course through further strengthening its market
share in identified growth sectors; education, health, transport 
and infrastructure, industrial, prisons, retail and PFI/PPP and to
develop services in new growth markets such as waste, utilities
and energy in both the UK and overseas.
During 2007/08, we made significant progress towards achieving
this strategic priority. Organic revenue growth in the UK market
was 14% and overseas revenues grew by 79%. We successfully
managed to cross-sell specialist and management consultancy
services to existing clients and have seen a 35% uplift over 2006/07
in this area. 19% of UK income was generated through frameworks
and we secured further agreements with several clients including
The Office of Government Commerce, Home Office Estate, Société
Générale and Network Rail. We also secured projects in two new
market areas; waste, where we are part of a consortium to build
and operate one of the most advanced waste treatment projects in
Europe, and nuclear, where we are supporting a client delivering 
a power station project in France. 
Growth in our established locations and increasing market share
has enabled us to move into larger premises in Birmingham,
Bristol, Edinburgh and Glasgow and we have opened new offices 
in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Mumbai. We have secured major projects
including Yas Island and Jumeirah Village in the UAE and have an
enviable pipeline of future work. 
Cyril Sweett has been extremely active in providing a broad range 
of services to the education and health sectors including Procure 21
and Building Schools for the Future. We have also been selected as
preferred bidder as part of the Education for Inverclyde consortium,
and reached financial close on the Dumfries and Galloway Council
Smarter Schools PPP Project.
Since the IPO, we have made significant progress in our strategy 
of growth through acquisition, acquiring the remaining 50% of the
shares of Cyril Sweett International (formerly Jones Sweett
International) in the Middle East. This business expanded to 35
people during its first year of operations and has established a
healthy order book. In the UK we acquired Nisbet LLP, which has
provided new clients in the public sector, especially in education,
together with further branch offices in the South West of England.
In South Wales we acquired Roger Richards and finally, we
acquired Burns Bridge, headquartered in Australia with branch
offices in three cities, together with branches in Singapore and 
Abu Dhabi. We expect each acquisition to be earnings enhancing
and to provide a platform for further growth, not just locally, but
throughout their wider regions. I am pleased to be able to report
that integration of these businesses is on plan.
Our strategy sees us increasing overseas activity five-fold by 2010,
by which time we expect to be delivering at least 25% of Group
revenues from the Middle East, India and Australasia. Overseas
revenue by geographical destination during 2007/08 reached 
£9.4m and was 79% higher than 2006/07 and represented 15% 
of Group revenues.
We set up a dedicated office in Mumbai in order to capitalise on 
the emerging construction market in India and have aligned our
structure internally and created a separately managed international
business with dedicated resources, infrastructure and processes 
in order to support the focus on international growth. Significant
international projects include Masdar and Zabeel Corporate Park
in the Middle East, Raffles Hotel in Singapore, FreeStyle Park in
Moscow and Hospital San Dureta in Spain. 
During 2007/08, the board made progress in improving operating
profit margins, reducing lock-up (debtor and work in progress days)
and monitoring the pricing and risks associated with all major
projects. Efficiency initiatives throughout the business have
proportionally reduced indirect costs and a new package of
efficiency measures will not only improve our processes and
delivery systems but also benefit bottom line performance to
address a tightening UK marketplace. 
Recruiting and retaining the right people is one of the key issues
this business faces. We seek to recruit and retain high performing
people to ensure that our reputation for excellence is maintained.
During 2007/08, we appointed a Group HR Director to drive 
the strategy. 
Over 58% of our colleagues are shareholders, which we believe
aligns the interests of both our internal and external shareholders
Strategy and 
performance 
Continued
08 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Business review to deliver a common goal. Following the flotation, 200 new
employees joined the group and the percentage of employee
shareholders is targeted to grow markedly. We achieved
recognition when we won the 2007 Award for Best Share
Ownership Plan (in the category of company with fewer than 1,500
employees) from the European Centre for Employee Ownership.
We continue to prioritise the delivery of top quality service to our
clients and have established a dedicated service delivery team to
co-ordinate service quality levels across the Group. The service
delivery team is responsible for deploying quality management
systems and project tool kits, ensuring that all parts of the
business operate on a common platform, continually improve and
innovate and thereby add value to our clients. We have introduced 
a new structure for operational delivery. Each team leader 
has responsibility and authority for project success, resource
management and client satisfaction and we are training all key
account management teams to deliver new techniques and
approaches to maximise cross-selling, client satisfaction and 
client retention. 
The future
We are confident that we can achieve our strategic goal of delivering
£100m of revenue by 2010. The year ahead will see us continue to
build a competitive position in growth sectors where we are strong
and extend our public sector exposure, adapting our existing
resources to support the new growth areas that our market led
research dictates. We will continue with the development of our 
UK regional businesses in order to develop top three status in 
each location, maximising cross selling, and will apply the same
principles to build our businesses in Europe and the Middle East
and further develop our presence in the Gulf States, India,
Southern Asia and Australia. 
We are evaluating a number of earnings enhancing acquisition
opportunities to accelerate growth in our UK and international
branch network. Acquisitions will come with rigorous, risk-based
due diligence and will be accompanied by robust integration
planning and execution.
Our strategy of combining acquisition and organic growth to build 
a global business is on track.
Chief Executive’s review
09 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Business review
09
“Our strategy sees us increasing
overseas activity five-fold by 2010, by
which time we expect to be delivering
at least 25% of Group revenues from
the Middle East, India and Australasia.“ 10 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Business review
Strategy and 
performance 
Continued
Investment case
1. Clear three year plan to deliver shareholder value as part of
long-term growth strategy
The management has a clear business plan for the three years 
to March 2010 which should deliver substantial returns to
shareholders. The plan sets a target of doubling revenues to 
in excess of £100m over the three year period. In the longer
term management’s ambition is to create a much larger
international consultancy.
2. Highly fragmented market, presenting significant acquisitive
growth opportunities
The quantity surveying and project management supply chain 
is very fragmented with up to 500 practices operating in the UK 
and it is also highly fragmented internationally. Cyril Sweett has
potential acquisition firepower and management is reviewing a
pipeline of acquisition opportunities to be a consolidator in the
market. Although some of the larger construction consultants 
have made acquisitions, this has been relatively limited because
the majority of the larger players (and almost all of the larger
independent ones) are partnerships, with relatively limited access
to capital to fund acquisitive growth. Cyril Sweett was the first
quoted player and will have a significant competitive advantage in
terms of its ability to consolidate the sector .
3. Strong management team with an excellent track record
The Cyril Sweett management team includes a strong group of
experienced leaders with backgrounds in the construction and
property industry. Many members of the management team have
been working in the company since the MBO in 1998 and have
demonstrated a proven track record of consistently delivering 
growth for the company. Their depth of overall business experience
provides Cyril Sweett with a strong and talented senior management
team that has been instrumental in the company’s success. 
The management team continues to be led by Chairman Francis Ives.
4. Strong order book and high levels of repeat business
The order book currently stands at £86m, up from £67m at
September 2007. 28% of the order book comprises non-UK work,
which represented just 15% of FY 08 revenue, suggesting that FY09
will see further strong growth in overseas revenues following the
recent JSI (Middle East) and Burns Bridge (Australia/Asia/Middle
East) acquisitions. The order book figure excludes potential work
under frameworks which accounted for 18% of FY07 revenue (the
order book only includes work already allocated under frameworks).
In total the Group has around 50 frameworks (formal and informal)
including Royal Bank of Scotland, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan
Chase, English Partnerships, DEFRA, HM Prison Service, the Office
of Government Commerce and the Home Office. Chief Executive’s review
11
5. Healthy margins
In FY08 Cyril Sweett generated an operating profit margin of 9.3%.
Margins have been consistently around this level for the last three
years. This is in large part due to Cyril Sweett’s higher average fees
generated per fee earner which more than offsets the impact 
of higher employee costs. 
6. Broad sector exposure with healthy spread of work between
private and public sectors
A key focus for management since the MBO has been to create a
more broadly based business in terms of services delivered, range
of sectors serviced, and number of clients. A key feature of Cyril
Sweett’s business is the combination of staff with strong sector
skills, supported by a policy of transferability of key service oriented
staff between different sectors. This means that the Group should
be able to react to market trends in individual sectors to ensure
that growth targets are achieved. The Group has shifted its focus
towards the public sector and international activity in 2007 and has
therefore limited exposure to any potential downturn in the UK
private sector following recent turbulence in the financial markets.
7. Strong balance sheet and significant banking facilities
Cyril Sweett has a strong balance sheet providing significant scope
to pursue both organic and acquisitive growth opportunities. 
Dean Webster, Chief Executive Officer
diversified 
sector portfolio
professional
service (white
collar consulting)
strategies
strategies
partnership and
joint venture
focus on core 
skill set
aligning the
business to
growth markets
long-term
relationships/
framework
agreements
recruit and 
retain high
performing 
people
acquisition
strategy
key account
management
focus
structured
geographic
expansion
programme
project 
management
quantity
surveying
specialist
services,
management
consultancy
Proven growth business model 
“The management has a clear 
business plan for the three years to
March 2010 which should deliver
substantial returns to shareholders.“
Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Business review
11
