 6 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Chief 
Executive’s
review
1.0 Introduction
Cyril Sweett is an international construction, property consultancy
and investment Group, delivering expertise in quantity surveying,
project and facilities management, management consultancy 
and a comprehensive range of specialist services.
The Group floated on the AIM market of the London Stock
Exchange over 18 months ago, and there is no doubt that
conditions in the construction sector have deteriorated since
then, particularly over the last 12 months.
The Group continues to expand its services across a wide range 
of sectors including commercial and retail, health, education,
prisons, social housing, life sciences, rail, air, waste, energy and
infrastructure. The Group operates from 29 offices throughout the
UK, Europe, Middle East, India and Australasia. From these bases
the Group is providing services in 11 countries.
The resilience of the Group in dealing with the ongoing tough
conditions in the construction sector is centred on its diverse
sector and geographic penetration, combined with the willingness
of our employees to be flexible, mobile and adaptable across the
markets in which we now operate.
The responsiveness of the Group has been demonstrated by the
rapid and decisive action it took between November and February
to close two offices, reduce the cost base and right size the
business to 750 people.
The financial strength of the Group is underpinned by a very
strong balance sheet, a net cash position and long-term banking
facilities. The order book stands at £74m and continues to be
supported by increasing levels of repeat appointments,
framework based commissions and opportunities in 
emerging sectors. 
Additionally, the expansion to our overseas workload is
underpinned by the high barriers to entry in UK-style quantity
surveying and project management, as global construction
markets become more focused on the capital cost, life cycle 
and sustainability of the built environment. 
Going forward we are confident that the Group is well positioned
to gain market share during the downturn and emerge stronger
when its markets improve.
Financial performance
Revenue increased by 26% to £78.9m. Operating profit before
exceptional expenses increased by 6% to £6.2m, but decreased 
by 59% on a post-exceptional basis, adversely affecting basic
earnings per share, which are down to 2.9p. At the same time,
operating margins pre-exceptional expenses decreased from 9%
to 8%. Our activities were cash generative at an operational level
and we ended the year with net cash. Whilst the business in the
UK had to be right sized to take the downturn into consideration, 
both the international and investment businesses made excellent
progress. The Group’s order book currently stands at £74m. 
The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year 
of 1.5p per share, which together with the interim dividend totals
‘‘
Dean Webster Chief Executive Officer
Going forward we are confident
that the Group is well positioned
to gain market share during the
downturn and emerge stronger
when its markets improve. Chief Executive’s review
Cyril Sweett Group plc 7
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
2.4p per share. The final dividend will be paid on 18 September
2009 to shareholders on the register at 21 August 2009. 
2.0 Group strategy
The downturn in the construction and property sector is evident on
a global basis. Nevertheless, the highly fragmented nature of our
traditional markets, combined with the high demand for UK-style
quantity surveying and project management expertise overseas,
will create significant opportunities for the Group. 
In anticipation of a prolonged period of difficult conditions, we have
recently refocused our business strategy to align with the
opportunities that do exist in the future. Our strategy to 2012 will
therefore focus on six core elements:
> Penetrate our existing sectors and concentrate on winning
further framework agreements;
> Develop our resources to diversify into sectors that present
growth opportunity including energy and utilities;
> Utilise our expertise in construction sustainability by developing
a much wider range of services in the cost and project
management arena;
> In addition to our new offices in Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong, 
we now plan to continue expanding in Asia, Middle East/North
Africa and Australasia; 
> Continue to grow our PPP Investment business across a wider
sector base; and
> Leverage our skill set up and down the value chain.
Initially we aim to deliver these objectives organically, whilst at the
same time preserving our balance sheet strength and lack of debt.
Nevertheless, we are in a position where we are able to acquire
either distressed businesses that fit our model, or, alternatively, 
to pursue other acquisition opportunities in order to accelerate 
our advance in new markets or locations.
3.0 Future
The Group’s diversity and flexibility, when combined with its
financial strength, will allow it to continue to be responsive to
market conditions. I am confident that Cyril Sweett remains a
strong business with exciting growth prospects, the foundations 
of which are being promoted in our 2012 Strategic Plan. 
Therefore, despite the tough market conditions, we look forward 
to the year ahead with confidence.
4.0 Review of operations
Cyril Sweett has continued to grow progressively since its buyout
in 1998, as a result of both continued organic growth and selective
acquisition. Throughout this period the expansion of the Group
has been as a result of a focus on diversification across a range 
of sectors, geographies and new routes to market.
During 2008/09 we continued with developing our strategy by:
> Acquiring three businesses which together extended 
our public sector base in the UK, supported our growth in 
the Middle East, and delivered new markets in Singapore 
and Australia;
> Consolidating our PPP Investment business with two further
wins and providing support to clients on other successful bids;
> Opening an office in Saudi Arabia and winning our first 
major commission;
> Publishing industry leading sustainability research with
Investment Property Forum, WRAP and Communities
and Local Government (CLG);
> Increasing overseas exposure to further diversify our business
model, with overseas now accounting for 30% of our forward
order book;
> Consolidating our longer term order book with 17 new
frameworks;
> Restructuring our management teams under one new
Executive Committee that will co-ordinate the activities 
of the whole business;
> Implementing a new intranet which encompass our global
experience and capabilities; and
> Ensuring active cash management in order to maximise our
liquid resources.
Nevertheless, in the face of tough construction market conditions,
particularly in the commercial and retail sectors, the management
team took decisive action between November 2008 and February
2009 to right size the business.
This required the business to be scaled down from 950 to 750
employees through a combination of natural wastage and
voluntary and compulsory redundancies. This initiative applied to
personnel in the UK and Ireland, Middle East, India and Australia
offices. In addition, having right sized our resources to match our
future workload expectations, the management instigated further
economies by reducing salaries across all levels of personnel.
The aim is to ensure the ongoing competitiveness of the Group 
in the face of increasing pressure on margins and pricing. 8 Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Chief 
Executive’s
review
(continued)
The cost of right sizing the business, which has been treated as
exceptional for trading purposes, amounted to £1.5m, and this has
been reflected in the income statement. Further exceptional costs
of £1.8m and £0.5m were recognised for bad debt provisions and
onerous leases respectively. In the case of the bad debt provisions,
management decided that, in view of the credit crunch affecting
clients’ ability to pay, the establishment of these provisions was
necessary. Of this amount, 76% represented UK clients and 24%
overseas. 
In the case of empty office space, this is largely as a result of the
Drury Lane, London accommodation that came with the acquisition
of Nisbet LLP . Re-occupation of this space is no longer anticipated
before the expiration of the lease of our main London premises in
2011. Between now and 2011 we will seek ways to alleviate our
premises costs.
Whilst managed under one main Executive Committee, the Group
activity is co-ordinated via three main operating units: UK &
Ireland, International and PFI/PPP Investments. 
The operational review of each unit is as follows:
4.1 UK & Ireland operations
Cyril Sweett continues to gain market share in its UK and Irish
markets with revenue by destination up 9% to £61.8m, accounting
for 78% of Group revenues. The UK & Ireland business is
structured via five main regional hubs, co-ordinating 18 regional
offices.
In terms of service quality, we are committed to offering our clients
the highest standards of service and expertise. Our quality
management systems are managed centrally across our network
of offices enabling us to ensure that local delivery is maintained at
a constant standard across every project. Our service won Project
Management Firm of the Year by Building magazine in 2008, which
acknowledged our excellence, innovation and professionalism.
In the year we have integrated the acquisitions of Nisbet LLP and
Roger Richards Partnership and have been able to promote a wider
range of services via our new offices in Cardiff, Leamington Spa,
Plymouth and Truro. We have also been able to achieve operational
efficiencies by the consolidation of our offices in Bristol, Exeter,
Leeds and London.
The UK & Ireland operations comprise 600 people having adjusted
the overall size of the operation to meet the expected workload for
the 2009/10 financial year . The business operates across a range of
sectors which we continue to diversify progressively. Our progress
during the reporting year includes:
Public
The public sector represents 60% of UK & Ireland revenue 
(2008: 58%).
Within the public sector, Cyril Sweett has strengthened its
capabilities with the acquisition of Nisbet, particularly the
‘purchaser side’ of our public sector client base which
complements our existing depth of ‘provider side’ clients. 
We continue to regard education and health as key growth areas
for the Group and we have continued to be extremely active in
providing a broad range of services. The buoyant pipeline of
contracts in these areas has enabled us to redeploy staff from 
the UK private commercial sector where many projects have 
been delayed or put on hold.
Our work continues throughout the different stages of the
education life cycle. We have been particularly successful in
securing work through the Partnerships for Schools framework
on the Building Schools for the Future programme. Contracts
over the last year have been secured across the UK in Barnsley,
Coventry, Doncaster, Greenwich, Hertfordshire, Hull, Kent,
Lewisham, Luton, Newcastle, Lambeth, Tower Hamlets, Waltham
Forest and Westminster . Further and higher education contracts
have been a growing area for the business over the last year, 
due partly to our appointment on the University Partnerships
Programme framework. We are currently advising Anglia Ruskin
University, Cambridge University, King’s College, Napier
University, Robert Gordon University and University of Warwick
with their redevelopment programmes.
In the health sector Cyril Sweett continues to be the market
leader in providing a broad range of services to trusts, SPVs,
contractors and banks. We have been particularly successful 
in securing P21 contracts because of our strong contractor
relationships and we are actively working on projects in North
Tees and Hartlepool, Brighton, Sherwood Forest, Bradgate &
Belvoir . A major win for our Scottish business was our
appointment to the Construction Integrated Supply Chain 
NHS Scotland for the Common Service Agency framework.
Our UK transport division has performed well and has secured
additional contracts as part of our ongoing framework at
Heathrow Airport. In rail our role has been extended by Network
Rail on the King’s Cross redevelopment project and capacity
enhancement plans at Waterloo station. Our work on Thameslink
continues at London Bridge, Blackfriars and Farringdon stations
where we are additionally involved in incorporating enabling
works for Crossrail. In Scotland, as Programme Managers with
Transport Scotland, we continue to work on the portfolio of rail
and tram schemes underway.
Prisons and Custodial continues to be a strong sector for us. As
part of our ongoing strategic alliance with the Ministry of Justice
(MOJ), new contracts have been secured at Belmarsh, Coltishall,
Maidstone and Brixton as well as other commissions throughout
the MOJ estate. New commissions are also being secured as the
UKBA (United Kingdom Borders Agency) increase their custodial
portfolio including a major new facility at Bullingdon. Chief Executive’s review
Cyril Sweett Group plc 9
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
We continue to advise clients across other public sectors including
defence and social housing. In addition, as part of our strategy to
diversify into emerging sectors, we have secured a number of
commissions in the Waste Management sector and are currently
active on four UK waste schemes at the planning and procurement
stage.
Private
The private sector represents 40% of UK and Ireland (2008: 42%)
which is a reflection of the spend pattern in the current recession.
Due to the softening of activity in UK property development we have
redeployed some of our staff to work on public sector contracts as
the balance of workload has altered and have also reduced
headcount where it became necessary. Despite the downturn 
there has nevertheless been ongoing activity in the private sector,
particularly with our corporate client base. We have been able to
build on our strong profile and we successfully secured contracts
with Prudential Assurance Company, ING Real Estate and 
JP Morgan Chase. 
Going forward we are actively developing areas which are still
experiencing recurring workload such as the budget hotel market
and developments for the food retailing market. Over the last year
we have secured further contracts with Premier Inn, Tesco and
Selfridge & Co and we are actively researching other opportunities
in this arena. It is our intention to increase our penetration in a
number of markets where we can add value to our clients’
activities, at the same time further diversifying our service offering
and spreading our operational risk.
4.2 Overseas operations 
Cyril Sweett continues to gain increasing international exposure
with revenue by destination of £17.1m, up from £6.2m and now
accounting for 22% of Group revenues. Since the Group’s flotation,
the international business has made significant progress both
organically and through acquisitions. We have grown our headcount
by 194% and established a healthy order book, which currently
stands at over £21m. 
The integration of BurnsBridge into the Group has been very
successful and the management teams in Australia, Singapore and
Abu Dhabi now help lead our activities in these regions. These
offices are driving expansion into wider territories in South East
Asia and China. In the period, we opened an office in Hong Kong
and registered a business in Bangkok.
Strong demand for our services continues in the Middle East. 
As a result we have widened our client base and expanded our
geographic capabilities. We have opened an office in Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia, where we secured a contract to provide both Project and
Cost Management on the tallest building in the Kingdom. We plan
to open further offices throughout the Middle East where major
project opportunities are opening up to the Group as a result of our
investment over the last nine months. 
In continental Europe our offices in Paris and Madrid remain
strong despite challenging local market conditions. The Spanish
office has been retained for further commissions for Primark in
both Spain and Portugal and has expanded its operation into
Gibraltar . In France we have entered the energy market by
supporting a client on two power stations.
4.3 Investment activities
The Group’s Investment business was established in 2007 to work
with strategic partners offering a unique consultancy led
approach to bid manage, direct and invest in Special Purpose
Vehicles (SPVs) in PFI and PPP projects. The business specialises
in a number of key UK sectors including community health,
education, emergency services, social housing, student
accommodation and waste markets. The Investment team has
continued to build a highly successful reputation in the PPP
marketplace for having the capabilities to manage, direct and
invest in projects that have been specifically identified as
opportunities where we can add best value. 
The Investment business continues to gain increasing exposure
with revenues for consultancy activities (up 24% to £1.16m),
accounting for 1.5% of Group revenues
1
. There is an encouraging
pipeline of potential future projects currently at various short-
listing stages.
During the period our first Schools investment, South Ayrshire
Schools, was successfully completed and became operational. 
In terms of expanding our pipeline of opportunities, we achieved
financial close on the £80m Inverclyde Schools project, supported
mandates to financial close on Salford and Wigan BSF and
Enniskillen Hospital. In March 2009 our consortium was
appointed to the LIFT Partners for the Express LIFT (Local
Improvement Finance Trust) framework providing us with access
to a range of future LIFT programmes as both an equity investor
and service provider . 
The Investment team works in close collaboration with other
parts of the Group to ensure effective project delivery. By
undertaking the delivery within the Group we can ensure that the
best service is delivered to our clients, partners and ultimately the
public sector .
Dean Webster – Chief Executive Officer
1 Included in revenue under UK and Ireland operations.
