 Chief Executive’s review
Dean Webster
Chief Executive Officer
Business Review
Strategy update
We have an integrated network of  
58 offices in 18 countries across five 
continents offering cost consulting  
and project management. Our service 
supports clients through every stage  
of the project life cycle based upon  
our international expertise and local 
knowledge. Our strength is our people’s 
world-class talent and expertise, through 
which we have time and again delivered 
exceptional results. The strategy builds  
on these key strengths.
We have built a global delivery platform 
having maintained an integrated business 
with a common culture of client service. 
The strategy to build the global platform 
was launched against a background  
of weak home markets in the UK,  
with limited resources to stretch across  
a wide geography. The Group undertook 
to focus on debt reduction and operating 
margin improvement, together with the 
re-allocation of capital towards our fast 
growth operations by disposing of our 
PPP investments. Since this strategy  
was first outlined, we have sold out of six 
PPP investments, releasing in excess of 
£7m of capital which has been invested in 
growing market share in the UK, growth in 
APAC (which has virtually doubled in size 
in the last three years), and in reducing debt, 
which is down from a peak of £11m in 2012.
In many areas we have achieved 
outstanding success and, in extending  
our strategic plan, we have reviewed  
every aspect of the business and the 
markets in which we operate.
One such opportunity is the recovery in  
our home UK markets. Last year I reported 
that we wanted to “Increase our market 
share in our traditional sectors whilst 
expanding further into the energy and 
infrastructure markets”. Our strategy 
appears to have been well timed. Not only 
have we increased our market share  
in these new areas, but we have also 
experienced a general market recovery  
in areas where our business has always 
been traditionally strong. Both margins  
and profitability are up year on year.  
Further scope exists to increase both of 
these as we are still some way off the peak.
In this section
   Business Review – Strategy update
 Market Overview
 Our values and business model
 Review of operations – Group financial performance
 Strategy in action
 Key Performance Indicators
The Group has now successfully delivered  
on the first two years of its three year strategic 
plan. Given the success we have achieved,  
the Board has evolved and extended the 
Group’s strategy in anticipation of continued 
changes in our market environment. 
Sweett Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 08 Plan to 2015 Extended Plan 
Integrated global approach
Develop a global corporate  
client base with the ability to  
deliver locally.
Introduction of account management specialists to continue enhancing  
our relationship with global corporate organisations.
Offer a consistent quality of service  
based upon international standards  
whilst sympathetic to local  
market conditions.
Having achieved ISO 9001, Investors In People accreditation, Agresso ERP  
system roll out and Project Management Tool Kit programmes, continue with  
training and process controls platforms across the Group.
Attract and develop key people in  
new sectors and new geographies, 
thereby extending our sector expertise  
and service coverage.
Sweett people have grown in numbers by 7% p.a. in the last two years.  
Continue to attract new people at similar levels, growing with cash flows.
Regional expansion
Europe – Increase our market share  
in our traditional sectors and expand 
further into the energy and infrastructure 
markets. Extend our client base across 
continental Europe.
Further organic growth across our core services with continued expansion into energy 
and infrastructure markets.
Leverage our strength in private and public sectors, to capitalise on our growing 
market share and recovery of UK activity.
Play heavily on our position as independent and specialist provider when set against  
a growing number of multi-disciplinary businesses.
Further invest in efficiency in support costs and service delivery utilisation to outweigh 
increasing wage inflation, further contributing to the net margin.
Middle East, Africa and India – 
Capitalise on the economic recovery in  
the UAE and expand our operations in 
Saudi Arabia and into Oman and Qatar. 
Extend our presence in India from four  
to six regional offices.
Limit Middle East to 10% of Group revenue – continuing to focus on improving  
the breadth and quality of its client base, concentrating main activity in UAE,  
Oman and Qatar.
Controlled organic growth in India, extending our sector coverage and  
geographic expansion.
Asia Pacific – Leverage our existing  
range of services across our existing  
client base whilst extending our 
geographic coverage and sector  
expertise. Extend our exposure  
to new sectors in Australia.
China – controlled expansion of QS offer until lockup reduces, organic growth of PM.
Hong Kong – target higher margin, larger QS projects, organic growth of PM,  
Dispute Resolution and Programming services.
South Asia – Singapore – organic growth of PM in line with market conditions  
and extension of QS service offer. Continue development of the Thailand operation  
as opportunities arise.
Australia – organic growth and targeting of larger, higher margin, projects.
North America – Develop our 
relationships with our alliance partners  
and provide clients with QS expertise  
on both the east and west coasts. 
Continue to develop our joint venture business organically, by concentrating on 
developing all five offices with the joint PM/QS offer by targeting existing client base 
and for international cross referral business.
The theme of the strategy going forward  
is to leverage the global platform we have 
created, encouraging cross-selling into 
new geographies with our larger clients. 
We will be placing more emphasis and 
capital investment into the UK business  
to continue to grow margins and our 
market share. We plan to improve risk 
management in the Middle East and focus 
on a few core markets, whilst limiting the 
Middle East to 10% of the Group’s total 
turnover and improving margins. In India, 
we have a strategy for managed growth. 
Having established a sizeable business  
in APAC, the ongoing focus will be to  
grow from that base by using regionally 
generated cash flows. Managing working 
capital in APAC and across the business 
will remain a strategic priority. The table 
below outlines some of the specifics of 
the strategic evolution:
Strategic report
Sweett Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 09
Governance Financial statements
