 Chairman’s statement
Cyril Sweett Group plc
Annual report and accounts 2008
Business review
05
Welcome
The outlook in our chosen markets
remains positive and we see 
plenty of opportunity. Francis Ives,
Chairman, assesses our progress 
and future prospects.
I have great pleasure in introducing the first full year preliminary
results since Cyril Sweett floated on the London Stock Exchange’s
AiM market in October 2007. The flotation has given us the resources
to supplement our strong organic growth with acquisitions.
I am pleased to report a very successful year for the Group. We have
achieved the goals that we set ourselves at the start of last year and
remain on course to deliver the strategic objective of £100m of
revenue in 2010, a target we stated at the time of flotation. 
Cyril Sweett had another outstanding year of growth and development
in 2007/08, outstripping its past performance in revenue and
profitability and therefore meeting market expectations. We began
the year with a strong order book and have built on this by focusing
on a strategy that will secure the long-term success of our business. 
Our success has been based on strong organic growth and we have
maintained our position as a top ten provider in the UK market. 
We have extended our offer in existing and new areas of work;
revenue increased by 20% to £62.7m, operating profit increased by
23% to £5.9m and basic earnings per share increased 12% to 8.3p.
At the same time, operating margins increased from 9.1% to 9.3%.
Our activities were cash generative and we ended the year with net
cash of £6.7m. The international businesses have made excellent
progress and the total order book has reached record levels,
currently standing at around £86m. The board has proposed 
a final dividend in respect of the year ended of 1.6 pence per share,
which together with the interim dividend totals 2.4 pence. The final
dividend will be paid to shareholders on the register at 11 July 2008,
payable on 18 August 2008. 
The dynamics of the environment in which we operate are changing
rapidly through a combination of rationalisation and evolution in the
consultancy markets and new opportunities are opening up
overseas. Our challenge now is to propel the group into the top five
among our UK competitors operating globally.
We have made further significant progress towards our objective of
becoming an international consultancy generating revenues of
£100m, completing four earnings-enhancing acquisitions by the end
of April 2008. These comprise the UK quantity surveying and project
management consultancy, Nisbet LLP; Burns Bridge, which
specialises in project management in Australia, Singapore and the
United Arab Emirates; Cyril Sweett International, formerly a joint
venture with DG Jones and Partners, providing project management
services in the Middle East and Roger Richards Partnership,
quantity surveyors operating in Wales.
In order to maintain our performance we have also strengthened
our management with new senior appointments across the Group.
In the coming year we will continue with our strategy to acquire
small and medium-sized businesses, both in the UK and overseas,
to add geographic penetration and access to new market sectors. 
In addition, we aim to consolidate our delivery systems by tightening
further the management of costs to ensure that we operate as
efficiently and effectively as possible. This will be particularly
important in the UK, where we will respond to changing market
conditions, addressing markets that are slowing, and developing
those that continue to generate increased opportunities. 
The progress we have made this year has continued to raise the
profile of Cyril Sweett as a Group that is recognised as a key player
in the construction and property markets. We are very excited by 
our progress and see significant opportunities ahead to build the
business beyond current expectations.
We now have 950 people working for Cyril Sweett and they are
motivated to do their very best to deliver high quality advice and
services to our existing and future clients. This is central to our
success and without the diligence and spirit shown by our staff,
working as a team, we would not have delivered such an excellent
performance. On behalf of the board I would like to thank them
sincerely for all their hard work.
Outlook 
Cyril Sweett is a diversified business, operating in both the public
and private sectors, with an order book that has grown significantly. 
The international order book is ahead of target and currently
represents 28% of the Group order book.
We believe that the Group is well positioned to continue to develop as
a global service provider, accelerating growth overseas, whilst at the
same time improving its position in the UK market, delivering double
digit growth in revenues in the years ahead. Our ability to deploy
resources flexibly across new markets and locations, together with
our acquisition strategy, all underpin our confidence in the future.
Francis Ives, Chairman
05
