 2 Sygen annual report and accounts 2002
Brian Baldock chairman
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report the Group’s
second consecutive year of significant
profit growth. We have seen progress
across all of our regions. The 52%
increase in gross profit contribution
from sales of products differentiated by
PICmarq™ biotechnology continues to
illustrate that our investment in Research
and Development is delivering value to
our customers.
DELIVERING
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
Following the restructuring of 2000 and 2001, Sygen has been focusing
on three key strategic objectives – growing the core PIC business,
continuing to increase our technical differentiation, and investigating how
best to enter the genetic improvement market in food animal species
other than pigs. We have made very good progress in all three areas.
Our profit growth in 2002 has enabled the Board to recommend 
a dividend this year – the first since Sygen emerged as an independent
company in 1998. 
I am pleased that we have been able to continue to strengthen
Sygen’s Board with two experienced additions. John Adams joined
Sygen as Finance Director in October 2001 and the addition of Iain
Ferguson, who has an outstanding scientific and commercial background
in Unilever, as a new Non-Executive Director has brought valuable skills
to the Board too. I would also like to thank Tom Urban for his invaluable
contribution during his three years as a Non-Executive Director. Tom’s
insight into the business of delivering technology through agricultural
seed stock provided an important input to Board discussions. 
Operating environment and growth in profitability
Total meat consumption has doubled in the past 20 years and is forecast
by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations to grow
2%-3% per year for the next ten years. Much of this growth will be driven
by the industrialisation of the developing world. Sygen has benefited
particularly from continued growth in pork consumption, and the Group’s
presence in several targeted developing countries should allow us to
benefit from this trend.
Pig market conditions were challenging in this past year. Firstly, the
lingering effects of Foot and Mouth Disease kept our UK customers
and our European business from returning to profit. It has also led to a
significant decrease in the size of the UK pig market. Secondly, both the
Americas and European regions entered a downturn in the pig cycle in
the second half of the year. Despite these difficult market conditions, all
regions were able to improve their performance. This is primarily due to
the change in the business model we have been implementing over the
last few years.
In addition to very good growth in operating profits, we have
continued to improve our return on capital employed, net cash position
and adjusted earnings per share.
Technical differentiation
We continue to grow both our investment in new technology and
the subsequent return from this investment. Nearly all our products
have now been improved in one way or another using PICmarq™
technology. We had an excellent year with seven new PICmarq™
2057/tp/Sygen R&A 2002/p4  30/9/02  5:31 pm  Page 2 Sygen annual report and accounts 2002 3
patents granted, demonstrating the increasing efficacy of our Research
and Development teams.
Investigating new markets
We have also been reviewing the breeding stock market of all food
animal species. Our first venture into species other than pigs is in the
rapidly growing shrimp breeding market. We are part of a consortium
that received an US$8.2 million research grant from the US Department
of Commerce to develop innovative biotechnology for application in the
shrimp industry. The partners in this consortium bring together expertise
in areas of genetics, healthy production systems and nutrition. We
expect to be able to exploit our exclusive rights to take the genetic
technology to market through our recently established subsidiary,
SyAqua. SyAqua has been reviewing methods of utilising our existing
quantitative genetics and biotechnology science to enter the breeding
stock market. This application to shrimp will lead to improvements in
meat quality and disease resistance.
Outlook
Our investment in Research and Development will increase again this
year. We will also begin to invest in the commercial aspects of our new
SyAqua business, and we will complete the implementation of our global
Information Systems project. The revenue investment in the last two
items is not expected to exceed £1.5 million this year.
The strategy we have implemented over recent years means that
PIC is much less exposed to the pig cycle than was the case during the
previous downturn. We are confident that 2003 will see Sygen making
further progress on several fronts as we invest for future growth.
Brian Baldock
Chairman
It takes more than just breeding
PIC continues to be the international
leader in providing genetically superior
pig breeding stock and technical support
for maximising genetic potential to
commercial pork producers. Operating
for over 40 years, PIC’s success is
attributed to its thorough concentration
and significant investment in aspects of
genetics, technology and health.
Making a splash
With the commencement of our research
in applying genetics and biotechnology
to shrimp production, SyAqua has been
established as Sygen’s commercial
breeding stock business in aquaculture.
2057/tp/Sygen R&A 2002/p4  30/9/02  5:31 pm  Page 3
