 4 Sygen annual report and accounts 2002
Sygen
Producers
Farmers
Proce  
Chief executive’s review
Sygen’s goal remains to be the leader
in creating value through the innovative
application of quantitative genetics and
biotechnology to animal breeding. Our
products, technology and people have
enabled Sygen to meet this goal in the
pig industry. We intend to build our
presence in animals other than pigs,
starting with shrimp.
Phillip David chief executive
Sygen achieved a profit before tax and exceptional items of £13.0 million,
40% ahead of last year. This performance was particularly significant,
given the lingering impact of Foot and Mouth Disease in Europe and
the declining market prices in North America and Europe experienced
in the second half of the year. 
Much of the improvement in our operating performance can be
attributed to the continued execution of our strategy to reduce the
impact of market risk and volatility on our business model, and to improve
the quality of our earnings. In 2002, we sold another farm in Europe,
further reducing the amount of our internal breeding production, and we
also increased the proportion of our business related to indirect, or royalty
based, sales to insulate our business model further from pig price volatility.
Unit Volumes increased by 7.1% to 2.1 million parent equivalents
over the prior year and the proportion of breeding stock sold on an
indirect/royalty basis, increased from 66% to 69%. This change in the
mix resulted in a £2.5 million decrease in expense from the three regions
1997 1998 1999 2000
0.6m
1.2m
European Community FP IV – Characterisation of
genetic variation in the European pig to facilitate the
maintenance and exploitation of biodiversity.
European Community FP IV – Identification of quantitative trait loci for
production traits in commercial pig populations. 
2057/tp/Sygen R&A 2002/p4  30/9/02  5:31 pm  Page 4 Sygen annual report and accounts 2002 5
e  ssors
Distributors
Retailers
Consumers
FIRST LINK IN DEVELOPING A
QUALITY SUPPLY CHAIN
Research grants
Sygen and its research partners compete very successfully for research grants from
Government agencies on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. Since 2000, Sygen-
supported projects have received almost £10 million from Government research
funding agencies. The following examples are illustrations of this success. In addition,
significant animal health research funding is provided for US institutions through the
Biotechnology Research Development Corporation, of which Sygen is a shareholder.
European Community FP V – Identification of genes
expressed during Haemophilus parasuis infections of pigs. 0.6m
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
European Community FP V – New gene tools to improve pig welfare and
the quality of pork. 2.2m
US Department of Commerce, NIST-ATP – Biosecure Zero-Exchange Shrimp Technology (BioZEST): a paradigm shift for the US
industry. US$8.2m
UK BBSRC exploiting genomics – Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Virus (PRRSv): genetics of host responses. £1.2m
2057/tp/Sygen R&A 2002/p4  30/9/02  5:31 pm  Page 5 6 Sygen annual report and accounts 2002
1994-1999
First patents granted for Litter Size
marker in USA and Australia.
Second patent granted for Litter Size
marker in USA.
1999-2000
Two patents granted for new Litter Size
markers in USA.
First patents granted for Coat Colour
marker and a fourth Litter Size marker.
More for less
Sygen’s genetic marker, PT1, a gene
test that identifies pigs whose offspring
use less feed, grow leaner and produce
less waste output, was recognised
with a top 100 R&D award for
research innovation.
Biotechnology, our ‘X’ factor
We are confident that we can deliver
consistent sustainable results because
of our leading quantitative genetics and
biotechnology. These ensure that we
can offer superior products throughout
the global meat supply chain.
Turning the tide on shrimp
imports into the US
The US Department of Commerce
awarded PIC Inc and three other
partners a research grant of
US$8.2 million to develop an
economically viable, environmentally
responsible and sustainable production
system for shrimp. This is an important
step in our strategy of leveraging our
quantitative genetics and biotechnology
across multiple animal species.
PATENTLY BETTER
2057/tp/Sygen R&A 2002/p4  30/9/02  5:32 pm  Page 6 Sygen annual report and accounts 2002 7
and an improvement in net margin before corporate and research
expenses from £10.86 per unit to £12.14 per unit.
Operating performance improved in every region again this year.
Research and Development expenses were increased by 25% to
£6.9 million, and the remaining corporate expenses increased by less
than 6%.
Profit after tax including exceptional items (which include Dalgety
residual issues) was £10.8 million. Earnings per share before exceptional
items were 2.8 pence, or 3.7 pence after accounting for the net positive
exceptional items. 
Technology
We have made great progress in the development of our technologies.
Eleven new patent applications were filed and seven new PICmarq™
patents were granted during the year. New products incorporating DNA
genomics technology were launched in several countries, including
animals selected to be resistant to a specific bacterial pathogen. Gross
profit from sales of biotechnology products (PICmarq™) increased by
52% to £3.2 million.
Record results were achieved at the PIC Canadian Genetic Nucleus
Farm and good increases in the rate of genetic improvement were also
made in the US and French Genetic Nucleus Farms. This, together with
an increase in the speed of dissemination due to our recent re-design of
the production chain, is providing our customers with faster access to
improved genetics. In addition, as a result of an increase in the transfer
of genetic technology between our three Genetic Nucleus Farms, a
global genetic improvement programme was designed and established
during the year, to serve the differing needs of individual customers in
their local markets. This structure is unique to PIC amongst pig genetic
improvement companies. 
Sygen’s investment in genetics and biotechnology provides
technologies applicable to multiple animal species. The focus of the
genomics programme is the end-product quality (e.g. eating quality)
and animal health and welfare. Evidence of our leadership in this area
can be seen in our scientists’ involvement in a significant new project
looking at both meat quality and stress. This project was initiated with
the support of the European Community and involves research groups in
France, Spain, Ireland and UK. Other new projects, also with government
support, are underway in the areas of animal behaviour and disease
susceptibility. 
2000-2002
First European patent granted for
aLitter Size marker.
New patents granted for Disease
Resistance marker in Australia and
New Zealand.
First patent for Coat Colour markers
granted in USA.
Patents granted for two further Litter
Size markers in USA.
Second European patent for Litter
Size marker and first European patent
for Coat Colour markers granted.
First patent on breed identification
granted.
2057/tp/Sygen R&A 2002/p4  30/9/02  5:32 pm  Page 7
