 At the interim stage, the Board expressed confidence that the second half of the year would be substantially
more profitable than the first and I am pleased to report that such a view was well founded.  Profit before tax for
the year has increased by 36.9% from the previous year to a total of £4,803,000 (2002: £3,508,000).  Earnings
per share have risen to 12.10 pence (2002: 7.99 pence), an increase of 51.4% over the prior year, with a much
reduced tax charge of 37.1% (2002: 42.6%).  Increased profitability, together with a continued focus on working
capital management, has generated improved operating cash flow of £3.26 million, up 52.4% compared to the
year before.  Reduced interest and tax payments, together with a lack of major capital expenditure
requirements following the completion of the new Group ERP system, have significantly improved the Group's
net free cash flow before disposal proceeds and financing by £5.21 million over the previous year.  As a
consequence, Group net borrowings have fallen appreciably to £10.97 million at 31 March 2003 (2002: £14.46
million) with year end gearing reduced to 53.5% (2002: 72.3%).
Dividend
The Board has decided that the final dividend should remain unchanged at 5.10 pence per ordinary share
(2002: 5.10 pence per ordinary share) giving a total payment for the year of 7.35 pence per ordinary share
(2002: 7.35 pence per ordinary share).  At this level the dividend is covered 1.65 times (2002: 1.09 times) which
is just below our target range of 1.8 to 2.2 times.
Operational Review
It is pleasing to be able to report an improved operating performance for Syltone during 2002-03 despite the
difficult market conditions which the main businesses of the Group have been experiencing.  On slightly
increased sales the company has again achieved a healthy improvement in operating margin up to 7.4%
(2002:6.2%) and reached its best ever profit per employee figure.  International sales of commercial vehicles
which is the key factor in demand for Syltone transportation equipment, have at best been flat during the year,
whilst some markets have shown a significant decline.  The final actions of the Group's reorganisation were
completed during the year and the results have benefited considerably this year from having a more stable,
committed management at all levels throughout the business.
Transportation Division
The General Purpose operation has shown improved results and has been buoyed, in particular, by the
increasing market acceptance of its new blower products, the XK range.  The Highways and Utilities business in
the UK has had a quieter year but Airdrive products have been introduced into Australia to positive effect.
Priestman Access Platforms has had an excellent year with order intake reaching higher levels than ever before
and Webster Drives has achieved great success in winning major orders, the fruits of which will be seen in the
years to come.  Oil has been somewhat subdued with better business flows from France offsetting a shortage
of major opportunities elsewhere.
Fluid Transfer Division
Our German manufacturing facility has been at full capacity this year as significant orders have been won in the
eastern parts of Europe and central Asia.  Operating performance has benefited accordingly and the division
has shown a much improved result compared to previous years.  The new distribution arrangements in North
America for chemical loading arms now have had a full year of trading and have enhanced operating
performance considerably, although less than anticipated at the start of the year because of slowness in US
markets.
Annual Report 2003 2
Chairman’s statement Europe
Despite the flat conditions in transportation markets across Europe, results have improved considerably as
General Purpose products have found increasing acceptability and access platforms have done well in a
buoyant UK market.  In addition to the excellent returns from the German fluid transfer operations, activity in
Syltone's French operations has been at an extremely high level with good performances from all business
segments.
Americas
Transportation businesses in the USA have continued to suffer from a declining market for new trucks, which
has shown a further reduction on the low levels of activity experienced in the previous year.    Sales of fluid
transfer equipment increased substantially over levels in prior years as a consequence of the new distributor
agreement for chemical loading arms but the market itself was subdued resulting in lower growth than planned.
Operations in Canada were at a slightly lower level than in the previous year primarily as a consequence of
softness in the market for bus fuelling systems throughout North America.
Rest of the World
Activity in Australia improved somewhat over the low levels of the previous year.  Encouragingly, the new XK
blower range was launched in Australia during the year with good market acceptance and new products and
systems to serve the vehicle on-board power market in Australia were demonstrated and initial orders were
won.  Syltone's company in Malaysia made a positive contribution to the group result in a quiet market, but the
small Brazilian business suffered with the erratic exchange rate and a generally difficult business environment.
Acquisitions
Since the end of the year, we have been pleased to announce three small additions to our business in the USA.
The first of these was the acquisition of the 5% of Syltone Industries LLC that Syltone plc did not previously own
for a consideration of $709,000 in cash.  The second and third were the acquisition of certain assets of CE-
Loading Systems Inc and Aarig Terminal Systems Inc for a combined net cash consideration of $1,110,000,
which is subject to adjustment depending on inventory levels at close.  Both are leading companies in the
provision of new loading arms and aftermarket services for the marine loading arm market in North America.
This step will considerably enhance the Group's presence in this niche market, in particular for the provision of
aftermarket services.
The search for selective opportunities to acquire businesses that will reinforce the Group's position within its
current market sectors will continue.
Prospects
Syltone has entered the new financial year with a stronger order book than that of twelve months ago.  This
should help in the achievement of a better balance between this year's six monthly trading periods, as a
stronger first half performance is expected over that of last year.  Even though it is unlikely that in the short term
there will be an upturn in market conditions, management is confident that there is still more potential to
enhance operating returns from the core business.  Efforts will be intensified in the building of profitable market
share and, when there is a stimulus to demand, the board is confident that Syltone is well positioned to take
advantage of it.
Peter Andrews
Chairman 24th June 2003
Annual Report 2003 3
Chairman’s statement
