 4 Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s statement
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
A large proportion of Syltone’s business depends on international commercial vehicle markets and, in most
major economies served by Syltone, purchases of these vehicles declined again last year.  Therefore it is most
encouraging to have achieved a significant improvement in the performance of the Group.   Group turnover
rose 4.4% to £78.8 million and operating margins to 7.4% from 6.2% the year before.  The value of orders won
during the year increased by 6.5% and the order book at 31 March 2003 was 19% higher than at the previous
year end.
Transportation Division
Our main transportation-related manufacturing businesses are located in the UK, France and the USA with
vehicle fitting operations and sales organisations in many other countries throughout Europe and the rest of the
World.  They are focused on the design and
manufacture of equipment for handling bulk
product on commercial vehicles in either dry or
liquid form, the provision of on-board power,
the design and manufacture of access
platforms and the design and manufacture of
power take-offs (“PTO’s”), axles and
gearboxes for demanding applications both
commercial and military.
In Europe, the Transportation Division has
shown an improved performance compared to
the recent past.  The management has now
settled down well after a period of
restructuring and has focused on building
upon the Group’s market-leading position.
Our sales operations in France have had an
outstanding year with activity in the Oil sector
in particular continuing to be very buoyant.  Since the restructuring carried out two years ago, many of the
Group-built products supplied into this market are manufactured in the Emco Wheaton factory in Margate and
the success of this operational change had a considerable impact on the performance of Syltone in the year.
Elsewhere in the Oil sector, activity was at a lower level than the year before. In particular, there was no benefit
from major international opportunities during the course of the year. The Margate factory is highly automated
and is able to respond rapidly to the re-equipping of major road tanker fleets when, for example, a major
national programme of conversion to bottom loading of petroleum tank trucks takes place. Our small
electronics business in Denmark, Sam System,
improved its throughput and profitability by a modest
amount in the year.
Operations in Northern Europe - the Netherlands,
Germany, Belgium and Poland - succeeded in
growing volume and market share in a flat or declining
market.  These businesses have benefited particularly
from the increased market acceptance of the new XK
range of blowers introduced shortly before the start of
the financial year.  This growth has in its turn had a
highly significant impact on our main manufacturing
operations in Bradford where activity levels rose 
D9000 Compressor and hydraulic drive system on DAF vehicle
API valves fitted, complete with guard bar and product return
system 5 Annual Report 2003
Chief Executive’s statement
sharply in the second half of the financial year and have remained at a high level since.
Activity levels in Southern Europe have shown an upturn.  The operation in Spain based in Madrid and with
fitting shops both in Madrid and in Tarragona near Barcelona has been revitalised during the course of the year
and has made excellent progress in addressing the market in Spain for blowers and hydraulic drives.  Our
business in Italy has also improved considerably following the introduction of new management and offers great
potential for the development of sales within a large market.
Unlike many of its competitors, the XK range was produced specifically for the dry bulk road tanker market and
was designed to show superior product delivery capability with high
reliability, low power consumption and low noise characteristics. This
development has proved to be most successful and its success has
made a major contribution to the encouraging results achieved by our
Springmill Street factory in Bradford.
Considerable effort has also been made by this sector of our business
to improve factory operating efficiencies, to lower cost and to reduce
inventory.  Consequently, focus has been given to the worldwide
search for more economical sources of supply.  Both improved
profitability and reduced capital employed in the business have been a
positive outcome of this approach.
Perolo, our French manufacturing business, had an eventful year
having experienced a disruptive fire at the end of September 2002.
It is pleasing to report that the employees at Perolo took this event in their stride and were quickly back in
production.  Perolo now has new senior management in place and continues to address the ISO-tank container
business, which remains depressed.
Our Highways and Utilities and Priestman
access platform businesses are centred
on the Cross Lane facility in Bradford in
the UK. Although the year saw the
substantial completion of the major
programmes for Transco and BT , it also saw
the launch of the first reliable system for the
provision of on-board power for front-wheel
drive vehicles and achieved major
successes for fleet deliveries for the AA.
The Priestman business has had an
extremely strong year and has provided
considerable encouragement both by its success in the market place and by the ability of our factory personnel
to find better and more efficient means of assembling the machine and sourcing the parts.  Output grew by over
50% compared to the previous year and significant cost reductions were achieved.  The most significant order
secured during the year was that from the Irish utility Eircom, whose order for 76 11.5 metre elevating platforms
was the largest order for access platforms ever won for Priestman products under Syltone’s ownership.
Webster Drives has had a good year, although with profitability just below the level of the year before.  Progress
has been made with market penetration of the company’s range of clutch PTO’s but the operating highlight of
the year has been the success of the company in winning an order for the manufacture of axles for a major
defence-related application which will commence in the second half of the 2003-04 financial year.  It is
expected that this new opportunity will have a considerable impact on the activity level and profitability of
Webster Drives in future years.
Last year’s annual report made mention of the increasing focus Syltone intended to give to its aftermarket
activities.  The operations are based at Cross Lane at Bradford and were carefully restructured a year ago to
XK 18 Compressor
XK 18 Application in Australia Annual Report 2003 6
Chief Executive’s statement
form teams dedicated to customer support and care. Customer service has improved dramatically and the
consequence to Syltone can clearly be seen in increased aftermarket activity, enhanced contribution and
significantly improved opportunities for the future.
In North America, Syltone’s transportation business is centred on the manufacturing plant in Louisville,
Kentucky where a range of blowers and hydraulic drive equipment is manufactured.  It is from the Louisville
offices that the Group’s North American distribution network is managed and through which the Group’s
products manufactured, both locally and in Europe, are distributed into North America.  Activity last year in the
North American transportation business was disappointing.  Commercial vehicle sales were at a significantly
lower level than even the depressed levels of the year before and Syltone’s sales were correspondingly reduced.
Intense competitive pressure continues and the decline in the value of the US Dollar relative to Sterling has
caused a squeeze on the margins of this business.
Fluid Transfer Division
The fluid transfer division is involved with the design and manufacture of equipment for loading and offloading
liquids from ships, railcars and road vehicles and the design and manufacture of dry-break couplings.  
Our European facilities for the manufacture of loading arms of all types are located at Kirchhain in Germany.  In
North America, loading arms for use with railcars and road vehicles are manufactured in Louisville, Kentucky
and, since our new acquisitions were announced in May 2003, we manufacture marine loading arms in
Houston, Texas.  In Canada, our company specialising in the manufacture of dry-break couplings is located in
Toronto.  Distribution of fluid transfer products is also carried out through major group operations in France and
Australia.
The performance of the division has been encouraging.  Volumes grew substantially throughout the year in each
of our major markets.  The focus by our German operation on developing markets in Russia and adjacent
countries both in Central Asia and in the Baltic States has proved to be most rewarding during the year with
major contracts having been won and delivered.  Projects still in the order book at the year end included the
prestigious Wysotsk project for Lukoil, the Russian oil major, which is the largest ever loading arm project won
by Syltone.
In the USA, activity level increased following the addition of a major new distributor for chemical loading arms
early in 2002.  This relationship has proved very fruitful, although tempered by the subdued US economy, but
Bottom loading arm rack Annual Report 2003 7
Chief Executive’s statement
we are confident now that our loading arm division is very well positioned for the future.
One of the most positive aspects of the fluid transfer operation was in our business based in France where
developments both in that country itself and in French influenced regions of North Africa provided strong growth
for our activities.
Emco Wheaton Corporation, our Canadian dry break coupling business, continued to grow its strong position
in the supply of devices to the bus and utility vehicle market throughout North America.  Business was quieter
during the year as spending by American public authorities remained at lacklustre levels.  Nevertheless, the
company achieved a creditable result albeit somewhat below the level of the previous year.
STRATEGIC REVIEW
Syltone’s strategy is to focus on products and services embraced within the two main business segments of
equipment for the transportation market and for loading and offloading liquids from one mode of transportation
onto another or into store.  The Group is constantly developing and researching additional products or services
which will add to its business portfolio or competence, or which will add geographical reach to the Group’s
product offerings.
Key assets for Syltone are its well-known brands including Airdrive, Webster, Drum, Emco Wheaton, Perolo and
Priestman for transportation equipment and Emco Wheaton, and now augmented by Syltone Marine, Aarig and
CE-LSI for fluid transfer equipment.  These names are deemed to be critical to the continuing success of the
business.  In addition to the sale of products under the Group’s owned brand names, the sale of other,
complementary, high quality products also features prominently in the Group’s strategy to enable full benefit to
be taken from the Group’s well-developed international distribution network. Underpinned by the nine key
engineering and manufacturing centres the leveraging of this international distribution network provides the
platform for the furtherance of the Group’s objective of profitable growth.  
A brief overview of the strategic strengths and objectives of our two divisions is set out below.
Transportation Division
Our key operating strategy is to focus firmly on the needs of the
end user of our equipment and to develop our selling resource
accordingly.  Frequently, Syltone’s sales are actually made to a
tank builder or intermediary but despite this, it is to the end-
user that the benefits of the equipment and its support services
are primarily sold.  This enables us not only to differentiate
clearly our products’ unique capabilities in relation to those of
our competition but also to extend our sale to incorporate
where possible a complete system of products to meet the
customer’s requirements more exactly.  It also permits Syltone
to make use of another of its key competitive strengths, its
aftermarket support programme, which provides service
contracts and extended product support to users of Syltone
equipment.
To further Syltone’s close contact with end-users, company-
owned fitting shops are located in ten key sites throughout
western and central Europe to provide each customer with the
option to have equipment supplied by Syltone to be fitted exactly in accordance with the manufacturer’s best
practices.  Such close contact to the end-user provides operating experience to Syltone which is unique in the
industry.
DA 11.5 metres access platform Key action plans for the coming year are set out below.
• Increase the rate at which new products are released into the market by reducing the time between product
conception and launch.
• Develop the already successful aftermarket programme with new
product offerings and into new regions.
• Extend the range of offerings of Airdrive- and Priestman-branded
products into new geographical areas.
Fluid Transfer Division
Focus on the end-user is every bit as important to our Fluid Transfer
Division as it is to Transportation.  In this division, there is less likelihood
of there being an intermediary in the sale process but the paramount
importance of product excellence and product differentiation remains
the same.
The smaller, distribution loading arms for road vehicle and railcar
applications are manufactured in both Europe and North America since
reduced manufacturing lead times have become increasingly important and intercontinental transportation
would be prohibitively expensive.  The larger, marine loading arms have hitherto been manufactured only in
Germany leaving a strategic gap in serving key markets in North America for both new product and, importantly,
aftermarket services.
This strategic gap was filled in May 2003 by the establishment of our own company in North America founded
on the assets and brand names of an existing well-known competitor and the former Emco Wheaton licensee.
We believe this will enable Syltone to draw as close to its prospective customer base in the New World as it
currently does in the Old.
Key action plans for the coming year are set out below.
• Develop the new North American capability for manufacture and support of marine loading arms into a
major competitor throughout North America.
• Extend the existing European aftermarket programme into new regions.
• Continue the internationalisation of the division's product offerings to ensure that the division retains its
position as a leading supplier of marine and distribution loading arms worldwide.
Trevor Murch
Chief Executive 24th June 2003
Annual Report 2003 8
Chief Executive’s statement
Hydrapak – oil cooler
Marine loading arms
