 Annual Report and Accounts 2009                             Abcam plc 
 
14
Jonathan Milner CEO
We continue to validate the 
strength of our business 
model and gain market  
share through our high 
quality, highly specified 
antibodies, breadth of 
catalogue and high levels  
of service and support.
It gives me a huge amount of pleasure to report on another very 
successful year for Abcam. With sales growth of 55.2% to £56.8m 
(27.8% on a constant currency basis), we continue to validate the 
strength of our business model and gain market share. Our high 
quality, highly specified antibodies and breadth of catalogue 
continue to attract new customers and the high levels of service and 
support we provide ensure strong levels of customer retention. 
It is important that we continue to invest in the business whilst 
delivering profitable growth and as described below, we have done 
so again this year. Profit before tax increased by 118.5% from £8.0m 
to £17.4m (before a £1.1m charge associated with the restructuring 
at the production facility in the 2009 financial year).
Sales in North America grew by 23.6% to $41.8m (£26.2m) as  
we continued to gain market share in the biggest, most mature  
and competitive market in the world. We are extending our opening 
times in order to improve service levels on the West Coast and 
continue to target regions where we have lower market penetration.
Our virtual office approach to European markets and targeted 
marketing initiatives, based out of our Cambridge UK office, but 
enabling European customers to contact us directly in their own 
languages, has continued to be successful and sales to Europe grew 
by 27.7% to €18.9m (£16.3m). 
In Japan, the transition away from using our original distributor to 
dealing exclusively with sub-dealers was completed during the year. 
This has been a major exercise and means that we are now able to 
be closer to the customer, which is a key part of our strategy and 
enables us to trade at improved margins. Sales in Japan grew by 
52.4% to ¥704m (£4.6m).
We enjoyed strong growth in the UK as sales grew by 17.7% to 
£4.9m and, with the expansion of our distributor network, sales in 
the rest of the world grew by 51.0%.
Included in the rest of the world figure are sales in the Hong Kong 
and Chinese markets, which together accounted for 3.0% of our 
sales this year. We believe that we are under-represented in those 
markets and consequently are in the process of opening a small 
sales and marketing office in Hong Kong to help capitalise on 
this opportunity.
We have increased the number of products in the catalogue by 
19.1% during the year to approximately 52,400, further extending 
our product range. New products added during the year contributed 
£2.7m of sales. As information is gathered on these products we 
expect sales to increase over time, as is the case with other 
products in the catalogue. 
As our market reach grows we continue to attract new suppliers  
of quality products in what is still a relatively fragmented market.  
In addition, we enjoy the benefit of the product development 
activities of existing suppliers with whom we have more established 
relationships, and who continue to introduce new products to us. We 
are also looking to expand the breadth of antibody-related reagents 
we offer, further to which we made an investment during the year to 
enable us to ship products on dry ice. This now gives us the 
capability to extend our range to products which, unlike antibodies, 
must remain frozen during delivery. 
We have completed the restructuring of our production facility 
following the switch to more targeted monoclonal production. The 
decision to do this was taken because in the view of the Board the 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review Abcam plc   Directors’ Report 15
A cornerstone of Abcam’s development has been building and 
retaining a close relationship with our customers. We do this in part 
by categorising the research market using our Core Focus Areas, 
which target researchers at the most exciting and cutting-edge 
frontiers of science. As part of this strategy we also continue to run 
world-class conferences where ground-breaking discoveries are 
announced, often with Abcam products as the enabling technology 
in those discoveries. We organised 17 conferences in the year, 
including our first in Asia. The recent establishment of our own 
in-house customer research capability means we are able to build 
ever closer relationships with the scientific community. 
This year has seen an increase in resources applied to our newly 
formed dedicated e-commerce team, a particular focus of which 
has been improved and targeted e-mail marketing. We have also 
improved response times on the website and are attracting traffic to 
the site at increasing rates. 
We look to build our business in a way which is scalable, to 
accommodate future growth. It is important that as we do this we 
continue to focus on economies of scale in order to optimise the 
return from our activities, hence our end-to-end internal system 
development, which links the public website to our key operating 
systems. This year we completed a major move of our head office to 
a new site on the Cambridge Science Park, and also moved offices 
in Japan following the change in distribution channels. Both moves 
were undertaken to accommodate further growth and were 
completed on time, with minimal disruption.
As previously announced, David Cleevely will be stepping down 
from the Board later this year. David was instrumental in the 
founding of Abcam in 1998 and I would like to express my thanks to 
David for all he has done for the Company over that time and the 
support he has provided to me personally. He has made a huge 
contribution and without him Abcam would not be the great 
Company it is today and perhaps would not have existed at all.  
We wish him well and are very much looking forward to working  
with Mike Redmond, who will be replacing David as Chairman.
Abcam has a proven business model, dedicated staff, continuing 
strong underlying growth and significant potential. We have created 
a brand that is trusted by our customers through our focus on 
antibodies, on product quality and on customer service. We intend 
to continue to grow the number of antibodies in our catalogue and 
will consider adding related products to assist researchers in their 
quest to uncover the secrets of the cell. These are exciting times for 
Abcam, which is at the forefront of enabling life science research. 
Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
7 September 2009
development of the high-volume monoclonal production process 
had the potential to absorb significant financial and management 
resources for an uncertain outcome. We will now look to supplement 
supply on a selective basis from third parties to ensure we have 
access to high quality monoclonal antibodies in order to meet 
market demand. Following the reorganisation, our polyclonal 
production activities have benefited from the additional 
development resources made available and are producing at record 
volumes. Having identified that a key driver of our growth is the 
amount of characterisation data available to scientists on the 
products in our catalogue, I am particularly pleased with the 
improvement both in throughput and breadth of applications that the 
characterisation team in our production facility can cover. There has 
been a significant increase in the amount of information added in the 
year and we have supplemented this for the first time by bringing a 
third party into our characterisation programme to help increase the 
volume and breadth of tests undertaken. 
