 Annual Report and Accounts 2009                             Abcam plc 
 
12
David Cleevely Chairman
It gives me particular 
pleasure to be reporting on 
an outstanding performance 
and the excellent progress 
made during the year. 
 
Trading has begun well  
in the new financial year, 
reflecting the robust  
and defensive nature of  
our markets.
We are presenting our results for the 2009 financial year against  
a backdrop of one of the most challenging global economic 
environments for many years. It therefore gives me particular 
pleasure to be reporting on an outstanding performance and the 
excellent progress made during the year. Abcam was established 
11 years ago to meet the needs of the research scientist for reliable, 
validated antibodies for protein detection, a central function of life 
science research. Since then we have been dedicated to assisting 
global research through investment in the extension of our product 
catalogue and increased and improved validation of our products 
across an expanded range of applications. Throughout that time, the 
central tenets of our business have been to build an infrastructure 
such that our expansion is controlled and sustainable, and, critically, 
to stay in close communication with our customer base so that we 
can better serve them and anticipate their future requirements.
We are proud to have built a global business that is characterised 
by a rapidly increasing demand for its products, and a strong 
customer base, located across the world. We have fulfilled over half 
a million orders since our foundation and have a huge and growing 
volume of information on our antibodies. This information, much of 
which is available on our website, is provided from our own in-house 
facility, from our customers and suppliers, and via articles (which 
are now running at over 2,000 per quarter) in independent scientific 
publications. Our strong customer focus extends into the continued 
development of our e-commerce platform, which provides easy 
access to detailed information relating to our products, and 
extensive follow-up technical support, all aimed at improving the 
experience of, and assisting, the researcher. 
Sales in the year increased by 55.2% to £56.8m and we benefited 
significantly from the weakness of Sterling, which had a positive 
impact on reported sales. Within that figure, underlying sales growth 
at constant currency rates was still very strong at 27.8% and we 
made significant progress in each of our main markets.
Our aim is to deliver sustainable growth through continued 
investment in the business. This year we have continued to develop 
the website, to optimise the user experience and, as part of our 
continued focus on being close to the markets and our customers, 
we now have our own in-house customer survey capability, which 
will play an important role in guiding new developments. 
Our North American and Japanese offices have both had excellent 
years and grown significantly. Asia represents an opportunity for us 
which is as yet relatively untapped. We are therefore in the process 
of opening a sales and marketing office in Hong Kong to serve the 
local market and mainland China. As with the opening of our 
Japanese office in 2006, this will initially be on a small scale, as  
we look to develop our market penetration and provide improved 
customer service levels. Elsewhere, our distributor network has 
been further enhanced with the addition of three new distributors 
and we now have coverage over several countries in South America. 
As indicated in the announcement accompanying our interim results 
in March, we have taken steps to refocus our monoclonal 
manufacturing resource towards more targeted production of a 
narrower range of high selling monoclonal antibodies, which we will 
supplement with the selective sourcing of monoclonal antibodies 
from third parties. Our aim is to leverage our excellent market 
position and knowledge to focus on areas of high demand, as we 
Chairman’s Review Abcam plc   Directors’ Report 13
currently do with our polyclonal production. As a consequence,  
we are taking an impairment charge of £1.1m in the year, relating  
to assets which are no longer utilised as a result of the decision to 
refocus strategy away from the higher-volume production processes. 
Our customers are the lifeblood of our business and are central  
to its operation. I would like to extend thanks to them for their  
continued support, to our suppliers who serve us so well, and 
to our shareholders.
Growth at the levels we are reporting requires dedicated and 
capable staff and I am delighted to say that we have continued to 
attract people of the highest calibre at all levels across the business. 
We thank them for their continued commitment, creativity and 
attention to detail which makes our success possible.
Dividends
The Board’s policy for the past two years has been to distribute  
33% of post-tax earnings. In light of the continued strong cash flow 
and success of the Group, the Directors are recommending that  
the distribution ratio for this year be increased to 35%. An interim 
dividend of 2.71p per share was paid in April 2009 and the Directors 
are therefore recommending a final dividend of 9.40p per share, 
making a total of 12.11p for the year, an increase of 116.2% on that 
paid last year. Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) in November, the final dividend will be 
paid on 27 November 2009 to shareholders on the register on  
6 November 2009.
Outlook
The potential impact of the global recession on our business is 
difficult to assess but trading has begun well in the new financial 
year. The robust and defensive nature of our markets, particularly 
from centrally funded research, has been well demonstrated during 
the past year. Nevertheless, the current economic circumstances 
demand a degree of caution. 
Since the Company was founded, our philosophy has been market 
led, focusing on the provision of the best quality products in the 
most relevant and meaningful way for the research scientist. This 
requires an integrated approach, across all areas of the business, 
and guides all that we do. Our track record demonstrates the 
strength of this philosophy, which I am sure will continue to serve  
the Company well in the future.
I was particularly pleased to welcome Mike Redmond to the Board 
as Deputy Chairman earlier in the year. As I indicated in the 
announcement of his appointment, after 11 years it is my intention to 
step down from the Board and I will be doing so at the AGM in early 
November. I am very proud of our achievements, the strength of the 
Company which has been built and the quality of the staff we have 
been able to attract. I am sure that under Mike Redmond’s guidance 
and leadership as Chairman, Abcam will continue to thrive. 
David Cleevely, FREng
Chairman
7 September 2009
