 Annual Report and Accounts 2009                             Abcam plc 
 
02
At a glance
Our products
We have an online catalogue of over 52,400 antibodies and 
related products such as proteins, peptides and kits. Our 
aim is to provide high quality antibodies against as many 
protein targets as possible and to test each one in as many 
applications and species as we can. We believe that 
honesty is the best policy so publish as much information as 
we can about each of our products on our website.
Our team not only adds new products to our catalogue  
every day, but also regularly updates the data for our existing 
products. Within the year we have also initiated a project 
involving the use of a third party to accelerate the rate of 
characterisation information on products in the catalogue.
Our distribution
We process orders quickly and accurately and we ship across 
the globe using our fully automated web-based stock 
management system. We have invested in state-of-the-art 
storage and handling facilities which allow us to operate at 
high levels of efficiency and with low handling costs. 
We have made an investment in the year to enable us to ship 
products at sub-zero temperatures. We therefore now have 
the capability to extend our range beyond antibodies to 
products which must remain frozen during transportation.
Abcam produces and distributes 
research-grade antibodies and 
related products.
 No. 1
Ranked Number 1 for best experience  
in terms of product quality and  
customer service*
237
employees
* Source: The Market for Antibodies: Keys to Success for Commercial 
Suppliers, Vol. 3, May 2009 (BioInformatics). Abcam plc   Directors’ Report 03
Our market
The US is Abcam’s largest market, accounting for over 40% 
of revenue in the last year. We are focused on gaining market 
share in the most mature and competitive market in the world 
by extending our opening times and continuing to target 
regions where we have lower market penetration. 
Our European virtual offices allow European customers 
to contact us directly in their own languages, which has 
supported an increase of over 25% in revenues derived  
from this region during the year.
The contribution from our Japanese office has grown 
considerably, by over 50% in the year. However, the growing 
Asian market still represents an under-exploited opportunity 
for us. We are in the process of opening a sales and 
marketing office in Hong Kong to serve the local market  
and mainland China and we continue to build our distributor 
network in order to improve our geographic reach.
Our customers
A cornerstone of Abcam’s development has been building 
and retaining a close relationship with our customers.  
The recent establishment of our own in-house customer 
research capability means we are able to build an ever 
closer understanding of the scientific research market.
We organise world-class conferences which serve to create  
a forum for scientists to discuss and present their work, often 
leading to ground-breaking discoveries. It allows us to stay  
at the cutting edge of research so we can make the most 
relevant new antibodies and also to stay in touch with our 
customers, learning how we can best improve our products.
 1 7
Conferences organised in the year
 7 6
Countries we distribute to worldwide
 500,000
Orders fulfilled since  
our foundation
52,400+
Antibodies and related products  
on the catalogue
