 Symphony Environmental Technologies plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
04
Chairman’s statement
Nirj Deva, DL, FRSA, MEP
I am pleased to report a 63% reduction in the 
operating loss from £0.73 million in 2013 to  
£0.27 million in 2014. The loss in 2013 included  
£0.57 million of non-recurring expenditure  
(2014: £nil). Cash used in operations reduced  
by 88% to just £0.10 million in 2014 from  
£0.81 million in 2013.
IDENTIFYING 
GROWTH
OPPORTUNITY
The balance sheet was strengthened in the 
final quarter after an equity placing raised 
£1.58 million in November 2014.
Group revenues reduced by 12% from £7.19 
million in 2013 to £6.35 million in 2014. 
Revenues are mainly derived from d
2w 
masterbatch sales, and these had been 
affected by timing issues in a number of 
markets. As previously reported, legislative 
momentum in favour of d
2w type products 
continues in several countries. Whilst there 
have been delays in implementation and 
enforcement of the legislation in certain 
jurisdictions, our local distributors have 
recently noticed material progress in this 
area. However, the Board remains cautious 
over the timing of sales in these locations.
Oxo-biodegradables are now seriously 
debated in the world’s largest markets 
including the European Union where they 
are trying to resolve the problems of waste 
minimisation and reducing plastic litter. The 
need for change is more apparent than 
before and oxo-biodegradables are in the 
right space at the right time. We were 
pleased that in March 2015, Symphony’s Chief 
Executive, Michael Laurier, was a speaker at 
the International Conference on the marine 
environment at the United Nations.
We remain optimistic about our product 
positioning and are particularly pleased 
with certain external recognitions thereof, 
such as the recent award to Symphony of 
the prestigious ABNT Eco-Label. ABNT is 
accredited by INMETRO for certification of 
products, and INMETRO is a member of the 
International Accreditation Forum. The 
criteria for awarding an Eco-Label are to 
preserve environment quality and minimise 
pollution caused by production, use and 
disposal of products and services.
Significant development work was 
undertaken during the year for both of our 
two main technologies, such costs totalling 
£0.41 million in the year (2013: £0.55 million). 
In addition, a new high-tech R&D facility was 
opened in May 2014 by our local mayor at 
our Head Office in Borehamwood, UK. We 
choose to make these significant investments 
in R&D as we see potential future demand 
for a broadened technology range.
Our d
2p “designed to protect” range has now 
increased to six product lines encompassing 
many different formulations including 
anti-microbial, odour adsorbing and insect 
repellent. Trials continue in many countries 
on end-products including toys, cutting 
boards, water pipes, tooth brushes,  
bags-for-life and gloves amongst many 
others. Some of these developments are with 
global multi-billion pound organisations. 
Trials and evaluations for both d
2w and d 2p 
products can take many years, especially 
with larger organisations. These are 
sometimes complex processes involving 
many departments and many personnel 
within the end-user including purchasing, 
marketing, technical, and product 
development. We have a large pipeline 
which ages from over two years to current 
covering many types of organisation in 
countries throughout our whole global 
distribution network, with a number of trials 
close to decision time. 
World’s first d
2
p bag 4 life. BUSINESS REVIEW
Symphony Environmental Technologies plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2014
www.symphonyenvironmental.com
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
05
Key Opportunities
 > Global business in nearly 100 countries.
 > In a multi-billion dollar market – 300 million 
tonnes of polymer produced annually.
 > Market set to grow at 4.4% per annum  
until 2020.
 > Anti-microbials predicted to be one of the 
fastest growing sectors.
 > Increasing legislation in favour of  
oxo-biodegradable plastic. 
 > Huge potential in developing economies 
particularly Asia-pacific and Africa.
 > Continuing investment in R&D.
However, due to the number of complexities 
involved in the final decision, whilst the 
projects are progressing well, the Board 
again remains cautious on timing of any 
sales from such trials and evaluations.
In December 2014 Shaun Robinson was 
appointed to the Board of Symphony, and 
we are already grateful for his contribution 
to date. The Board is also pleased to have 
such strong commitment and support from 
Somerston Capital who participated in the 
placing in November 2014. This commitment 
to the business was reciprocated by Michael 
Laurier, with his purchase of an additional 
750,000 shares at the time of the placing. 
With Shaun Robinson as a Board Director, 
the Directors’ have a beneficial interest in 
24.9% of the Company’s ordinary shares 
(2013: 19.5%).
I would like to thank the Board, the staff, and 
our Distributors for all their work in 2014, 
and we look forward to 2015 with confidence.
N Deva DL FRSA MEP
Chairman
10 April 2015
