 04 Symphony Environmental T echnologies plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report a significant uplift in all areas of the  
SEL business with revenues increasing by 46% to £7 .19 
million (2012: £4.94 million) with an operating loss before 
non-recurring items of just £159,000. 
This compares to an operating loss of 
£2.18 million in 2012. Our EBITDA loss 
before non-recurring items was £10,000 
compared to an EBITDA loss of £2.02 
million in 2012.
The SEL business performed well with an 
EBITDA profit of £0.22 million compared 
to a loss of £1.75 million in 2012. All of our 
major markets performed well compared 
to 2012, and more importantly, a number 
of very significant prospects continued 
to develop during the year. 
In 2013 sales of our d
2
w controlled-life 
plastic technology (which makes plastic 
oxo-biodegradable) grew by 46%. The 
main growth-drivers include legislation 
and Corporate Social Responsibility 
(“CSR”). We announced during the year 
that Pakistan had mandated the use of 
oxo-biodegradable technology for 
disposable plastic products. As seen 
elsewhere, sales have started slowly 
while grace periods are allowed and 
enforcement becomes effective. This 
has been seen in the UAE and parts of 
Africa where similar legislation is in place, 
and sales are now increasing.
Sales of d
2
w were made to our 
Distributors in 51 territories during the 
year and many of these sell through to 
other territories within their distribution 
agreements. Most territories do not yet 
have a legal requirement to use oxo-bio 
and sales are driven by CSR. Brand 
owners and manufacturers do not want 
to see their plastic products lying on the 
beach or in the open environment 
decades from now. The number of signed 
agreements with distributors increased 
from 72 to 76 during the year.
For our d
2
p anti-microbial product range, 
an exciting development during the year 
was the completion of a two year 
collaboration with Janssen Pharmaceutica 
(a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson) and 
signature of an agreement with them, to 
bring an entirely new product to the 
market. d
2
p is included in plastic at the 
manufacturing stage and gives it anti-
microbial and anti-fungal properties. This 
development is significant for Symphony 
as it opens up major revenue possibilities 
where protection from bacteria and fungi 
is required. 
During the year we reduced our cost base 
by improving operational efficiencies, 
and a one-off charge of £76,000 was 
incurred during this process. Excluding 
non-recurring items, our cost base 
reduced from £4.21 million in 2012 to 
£3.53 million in 2013.
As previously stated, the Board’s 
strategy is to commercialise SRT. Having 
carefully considered the options, the 
initial steps will be to establish a 
separately funded entity with dedicated 
resources that is autonomous from the 
Group. As this will no longer form an 
integral part of the business, a full 
impairment charge of £494,000 has been 
made against all capitalised development 
costs in SRT. SRT has a novel process for 
efficiently recycling scrap tyres, and a 
patent has been applied for. The main 
drivers for this are legislation that 
requires more recycling, and prevents 
disposal of tyres in landfill or by burning in 
the open environment. The SRT process 
delivers high-value recycled raw 
materials which can be used again in 
quality manufacturing processes. 
Although the recycling business will no 
longer be an integral part of Symphony’s 
business, the Group will retain an interest 
in the new entity as a minority 
shareholder and as IP Licensor, from 
which it is expected that the Group will 
benefit going forward.
Our business strategy has been 
consistently in line with the UK 
Government’s policy of creating foreign 
exchange earnings through an export-
driven economy. The Group has 
developed a growing number of licensed 
and independent Distributors to market 
and sell its products. The business is not 
reliant on any one market or event, and the 
downside risk is therefore limited, but the 
upside is potentially unlimited. Over the 
years the Management have successfully 
expanded Symphony’s network, markets 
and products, and having laid these firm 
foundations we expect good levels of 
growth going forward.
I would like to thank the Board, the staff, 
and our Distributors for all their creative 
work in 2013, and we look forward to a 
very successful 2014.
Nirj Deva, DL, FRSA, MEP 
Chairman
