 Strategic report 
Chief Executive's strategic review 
Introduction
Synergy is a global leader in outsourced sterilisation 
services for medical device manufacturers, hospitals and 
other industries. Worldwide, we operate a complete range 
of sterilisation technologies including gamma, ethylene 
oxide (‘EtO’), electron beam, x-ray, steam and plasma. 
Across the healthcare industry, Synergy also provides other 
niche outsourced services such as laboratory services 
(pathology, toxicology, microbiology, and food and allergen 
testing) and healthcare linen services. All of our businesses 
have the beneﬁt of signiﬁcant barriers to entry, stable 
long-term contracts and good cash generation.
Writing last year, I anticipated that 2013/14 could mark an 
inﬂexion point for Synergy with a return to stronger organic 
growth. This year we have won new long-term contracts 
worth £39 million per annum in the US, £6.7 million per 
annum in the UK, and approximately £2.1 million per 
annum in Asia. Our forward order book has jumped from 
£1.0 billion to £1.5 billion. We have also progressed over 
half way to our target of having 50% of our revenue 
generated outside the UK and Europe. The Americas  
and Asia & Africa regions now account for 25.4% of 
revenue and 20.4% of our adjusted operating proﬁts, in the 
context of the Group’s reported revenues of £380.5 million 
(2013: £361.2 million) and adjusted operating proﬁts of 
£61.3 million (2013: £56.2 million). In constant currency, 
revenue growth was 4.1% and adjusted operating proﬁt 
growth was 7 .9%. 
Although our order book has grown signiﬁcantly, the new 
contracts won will commence over the next eighteen 
months, and hence were not reﬂected in this year’s 
revenues. In addition, it has been a difﬁcult year with little,  
if any, healthcare volume growth in the developed 
countries, caused by the Affordable Care Act in the US and 
continued austerity measures in the UK and Europe. We 
have also seen a further decline in Dutch linen revenues  
of 10.9% in constant currency terms and the last ﬁscal 
quarter, which is usually our strongest, was affected by 
extreme weather in the US and Europe. On a constant 
currency basis, growth for the year was a respectable 8.6% 
excluding linen. In light of the Dutch linen concerns we 
reviewed the Group strategy in November and a number of 
changes are being implemented during the new ﬁscal year.
Our objective is to grow 
revenue and earnings 
by approximately 15%  
per annum through 
a combination of organic  
and acquisitive growth.
14 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategy 
Our objective is to grow revenue and earnings by 
approximately 15% per annum through a combination  
of organic and acquisitive growth. With inﬂation no greater 
than 2% and volume growth in a similar 0-2% range for  
the next few years, the growth challenge is signiﬁcant. Our 
addressable markets are very large however, with the global 
AST market estimated to be worth £1.5 billion per annum, 
the UK HSS market worth £0.3 billion per annum and the 
US HSS market worth £1.8 billion per annum. To address 
the growth challenge we have implemented a four-step plan 
that builds on our US-UK operating axis. The key objectives 
and strategies are to:
a) Grow AST by at least 10-12% per annum by continuing 
to internationalise the network through organic growth and 
acquisitions, whilst differentiating our services through 
technology and our people. 
During the year we opened the new gamma facility in 
Marcoule France and after the year end, acquired the Bioster 
Group in Italy, extending our network across Southern and 
Eastern Europe with facilities in Italy, Slovakia and the Czech 
Republic. Globally Synergy’s AST business is number two  
in the world and has the largest processing capacity.
b) Grow HSS by 10-20% per annum by focusing our 
outsourcing growth in the US, UK and Asia, whilst offering 
easily scalable HSS technologies to a broader market. 
Our own surgical instrument management software, 
SynergyTrak™ (formerly known as TrakStar), supported  
by radio-frequency identiﬁcation (‘RFID’) technologies, will 
increase operating room utilisation and reduce patient risk. 
Synergy is the largest provider of healthcare outsourcing 
services globally, and has the scale to differentiate itself 
from in-house solutions and commercial competitors  
by continuing to invest in new technology. For example, 
Synergy recently introduced a new, patented RFID tunnel 
reader that can mass-read a large tray of instruments  
with one hundred per cent accuracy in less than 40 
seconds. This presents an opportunity to revolutionise the 
assembly of instrument trays, as well as decrease risk in  
the operating room. We will continue to invest in research 
and development (‘R&D’) with the recruitment of a Chief 
Technology Ofﬁcer and a ring-fenced R&D budget of 0.5% 
of revenue per annum. 
With recent wins of £41.1 million per annum in the US and 
China, together with a re-opening of the UK market, the 
Group is poised to see a strong return to growth. We will  
see the revenue impact of the ﬁrst of these large contracts 
starting in September 2014 and the second in May 2015.
c) Expand the linen services into service adjacencies  
to broaden their growth prospects and reduce our 
dependency on pure linen. Whilst the UK service has done 
well, winning contracts worth over £5.1 million per annum, 
the Dutch service is seeing a further contraction in their 
market as the Dutch health service restructures long-term 
care. The current strategy for this service is very much 
based on cost leadership, so that at any given price, we 
intend to make a higher margin than our competitors. Our 
focus in the new ﬁnancial year is to restore revenue growth.
d) Expand Synergy’s services into a third market with very 
strong adjacencies to both the AST and HSS businesses. 
Our attention is broadly focused on the inspection, testing 
and certiﬁcation market, building on our existing laboratory 
business. During the year we acquired Genon Limited, a 
small UK-based food testing laboratory, and we anticipate 
further acquisitions to help create scale in this space. We 
expect this new service to gain momentum during 2015 
and beyond.
Leadership and a revised Group structure
It remains a cornerstone of Synergy’s strategy to rapidly 
internationalise our business and to decrease our reliance 
on Europe. However, we have to recognise that the US/UK 
axis is becoming increasingly important, as is the need to 
extract scale beneﬁt from our global operations in each 
service line. Accordingly the Board has decided to 
restructure the Group in the new ﬁscal year, replacing our 
regional structure with a service line structure. In addition 
we have split the role of the Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
(‘CEO’), creating a Chief Operating Ofﬁcer (‘COO’) role to 
oversee the day-to-day operations, whilst the CEO focuses 
on strategy and long-term planning. I have remained in my 
role as Group CEO, and the former CEO of the UK & Ireland 
region, Dr Adrian Coward, has become our COO and joins 
the plc Board. 
Our scale and expertise in hospital sterile 
services has enabled us to invest in the 
development and exploitation of potentially 
transformational technology such as RFID. 
 
15 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 
Chief Executive's strategic review continued 
We believe that this structure will enable us to implement 
the new strategy effectively and to deliver the global organic 
growth we are striving for, whilst maintaining our reputation 
for operational excellence and delivering a service that 
generates outstanding value for our customers.
During the year we began the search for a Chief Technology 
Ofﬁcer to lead the R&D programme. Elsewhere in the 
Group, we have made several senior leadership 
appointments to strengthen management, including:
 + Global Vice President of Quality Assurance  
and Regulatory Affairs
 + Global Vice President of Human Resources
 + Global President AST & Laboratories
 + US President AST 
 + US President HSS 
Finally, on 16 May 2014 we completed our acquisition  
of the Bioster Group. Bioster operates nine AST sites, 
including six in Italy, one each in Slovakia and the Czech 
Republic and a small Joint Venture in Egypt. All the non-
Italian facilities specialise in EtO sterilisation, whilst in Italy, 
electron beam sterilisation is offered at the Seriate, Bastia di 
Rovolon and Poggior Rusco facilities. The remaining Italian 
facilities also offer EtO sterilisation, as does Poggior Rusco, 
providing access to both technologies at the one site. In 
addition, Bioster engages in HSS outsourcing, with twelve 
facilities across Milan, Venice, Florence, Pescara and 
Naples. As with previous AST acquisitions, we expect that 
Bioster’s rate of growth will increase as part of Synergy’s 
global AST network and strong brand recognition in the 
global medical device market.
Financial strength
Synergy is a robust business and in good shape with an 
internationally diversiﬁed business providing value-added 
services underpinned by long-term contracts. Cash 
generation remains strong, with adjusted EBITDA 
increasing by £4.0 million to £103.3 million (2013: £99.3 
million), before non-recurring items. Net debt reduced to 
£147 .6 million, reducing gearing to 1.5 times EBITDA,  
well below our internal ceiling of net debt to EBITDA of  
2.5 times.
Outlook 
The Board is conﬁdent that Synergy’s updated strategy  
will build on the success we have seen in recent months 
with new contract wins. The continued internationalisation 
of our services is broadening the available market, whilst 
our new structure, recent appointments and new service 
range will contribute towards a faster rate of growth. We 
have a vision for how Synergy’s services will integrate with 
the needs of the changing healthcare industry, and are 
actively increasing our expenditure in R&D to ensure that 
we remain on top of technological advancements that could 
revolutionise our sector. Through our global expertise and 
investment in technology and solutions delivery we have an 
increasingly attractive value proposition to help our 
customers address the challenges that they face.
Looking ahead, our new contract wins of £43 million per 
annum will be implemented over the next sixteen months, 
raising our growth rate. In the short to medium term we 
expect to see a 0.5% reduction in operating margins as we 
channel investment into R&D, but this investment will be 
offset by our growing bid books and bid conversions that 
will ultimately drive top-line growth. We have conﬁdence  
in our strategy, and in our realigned and signiﬁcantly 
expanded leadership team to implement our strategy.
Dr Richard M Steeves 
Chief Executive 
4 June 2014
I am conﬁdent that Synergy’s updated strategy  
will build on the success we have seen in recent 
months with new contract wins. The continued 
internationalisation of our services is broadening  
the available market, whilst our new structure,  
new talent and new service range will contribute 
towards a faster rate of growth.
16 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
