 Chief Executive’s review
Our services are mission-critical 
to our customers, and for 
this reason the demand 
for outsourcing is growing
Synergy Health is an expert in outsourced sterilisation 
services to the medical device market as well as to 
hospitals and other healthcare providers. In addition, 
the business provides other outsourced services such as 
healthcare linen, pathology and specialist laboratory services. 
By focusing on niche outsourced services, the Group has 
the benefit of significant barriers to entry, good cash 
generation and long term contracts.
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 6 Operating and financial review Governance Financials Our strategy Who we are
£70.1m £56.9m +13.9% +13.8%
Introduction
During the year we exceeded our expectations in terms of margin 
progression, but the uplift in revenue growth was slower to come 
through. We have now seen growth filtering through during the early 
part of this new financial year. 
The Group performed well during the year, meeting our expectations 
in all areas with the exception of our products based business in the 
UK. Underlying revenues were up 4.1% on last year after taking into 
account currency effects and the closure of non-core businesses. 
Gross margins were up by 2.0% to 38.2% (2010: 36.2%) and 
adjusted operating margin was up 1.1% on last year to 15.0% (2010: 
13.9%). The strategy is serving the business well with solid underlying 
growth, geographic diversification and a focus on niche outsourcing 
services, which will enable us to sustain our operating margins at the 
current levels.
There are however still challenges to be faced, and we are taking 
proactive steps to address these. Growth in Europe and the UK is 
more subdued as a result of our mature linen businesses operating in 
mature markets, and the general state of the economy. Our strategy of 
focusing more resources on Asia is paying off with growth outstripping 
the other two regions. Asia and Africa make up 4.7% of global 
revenues, up from 3.8% last year. Meanwhile, Europe and the Middle 
East’s contribution was steady at 41.3% (2010: 41.0%), and the UK 
and Ireland’s share reduced to 53.9% from 55.2%. Asia’s share of 
revenue generation is increasing in line with our strategy. Our entry into 
the Americas will provide further opportunity for fast growth within our 
core services, as well as supporting our Asian business through closer 
links with large US-based medical device manufacturers. Another 
challenge is our products based business, which faced a further 
decline in revenues in the UK this year, holding back Group revenue 
growth. We are focusing very heavily on cost leadership within the UK 
and directing investment into our international markets where growth 
will be stronger.
Overall, the Group is in good shape with an internationally diversified 
business providing long term contracted, high value added services 
with a forward order book of £920 million (2010: £850 million). The 
business has a strong balance sheet and excellent cash generation.
Strategy
We set out a strategy three years ago that has resulted in Synergy 
becoming one of the leading global providers of niche outsourced 
services to health related markets. Our core service is the provision 
of outsourced sterilisation for medical device manufacturers and for 
healthcare providers such as acute hospitals. In addition, we are 
leading providers of healthcare linen services in the UK and the 
Netherlands, manufacturers of infection control products and 
providers of specialist laboratory services. 
Underlying global revenues (excluding non-core businesses) for 
medical device sterilisation and hospital sterilisation were up 13.9% 
and 13.8% respectively. Our healthcare solutions businesses declined 
by 2.9%, reflecting our strategy to direct our investments towards 
sterilisation services, as well as some difficult trading in the UK 
products business.
Looking ahead, our strategic objectives are threefold. Firstly, we will 
continue to expand the business internationally, making Synergy a 
truly global business. Secondly, we will focus on high value added 
outsourced services that have high barriers to entry. Thirdly, we will 
differentiate Synergy from its competitors through its people, and at 
the same time maintain a cost leadership strategy to ensure that we 
achieve greater levels of efficiency. 
1. Internationalisation
Synergy is the leading provider of sterilisation services to hospitals, 
having created the market in the UK in 1996. Today we have facilities 
in the UK, Europe, and China, and our strategy is to continue to 
increase our total market share in each country as well as to continue 
our international expansion in Asia and in due course in the 
United States.
Following the recent acquisitions of GSP and BeamOne, we are now 
the second largest global provider of sterilisation services to medical 
device manufacturers. Our strategy is to continue to expand our 
presence in Asia where multinational medical device companies are 
focusing their investments, and healthcare providers are focusing on 
reducing infection risks. We are targeting a quarter of our income to 
come from the Asian region. At the same time we will be extending 
our presence in the Americas, with the expansion of our sterilisation 
services for both medical device manufacturers, and for healthcare 
providers. In the short term, we are focusing on medical device 
opportunities in Central America, with a medium term objective to 
develop our hospital sterilisation services in the United States. In the 
medium term we expect to see a quarter of our income coming from 
the Americas region.
We are leading providers of healthcare linen services in the 
Netherlands and in the UK. Our intention is to operate these 
businesses efficiently but not to expand them outside of these two 
countries. Similarly our small laboratory businesses, which operate 
in the UK and in the Netherlands, will continue to be developed 
within these countries.
We also manufacture infection control and other consumable 
products for the international healthcare market. This business has 
encountered a number of challenges over the last three years and 
continues to face considerable headwinds. The business is partway 
through a restructuring programme to lower its cost base to support 
a predominantly internationally based growth strategy. 
2. High Value Added Services
Our strategy is to focus solely on niche services that have high 
barriers to entry, significant value added content and a global potential. 
Presently just under three quarters of our income is derived from 
sterilisation services to the medical device and hospital markets. 
The outsourcing of these services is driven by an increasing regulatory 
burden that makes outsourcing to highly specialised providers such 
as Synergy economically effective. 
The barriers to entry within the sterilisation businesses are 
considerable. For example, the service we provide to the global 
medical device manufacturers requires Synergy to have experience, 
competence and a network to provide mission-critical services. 
Synergy is recognised as one of the world’s leading providers of 
medical device sterilisation services with an extremely positive 
reputation for the quality of its services. In addition, we are the world’s 
largest operator of radiation sterilisation facilities, relatively protected 
by licensing requirements which are becoming ever more stringent. 
There are similarly high barriers to entry for the sterilisation of reusable 
medical devices for hospitals. The service is again mission-critical, with 
much of the challenge based on managing the complex logistics of 
supplying thousands of different types of surgical instruments. Synergy 
has addressed and met the challenge with our proprietary software 
systems that manage the logistics and ensure that the inherent risks 
in the service are controlled. Synergy has an unparalleled record of 
service delivery, reflecting its strong position in the UK and its 
expanding services in Europe and China.
Global medical device sterilisation revenue Global hospital sterilisation revenue
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 7 Chief Executive’s review
We have very strong and defendable positions with our linen services 
in the Netherlands and the UK, where we are number one and two 
respectively. As the markets have been consolidated down to two 
players in each case, there are significant barriers to entry with scale 
and experience, as well as with customers being contracted on five to 
seven year terms.
Looking further ahead, we are researching other niche areas where 
Synergy’s core competencies could be used to create similarly 
attractive operating models. We are attracted to services that integrate 
more closely with clinical service provision and where there are 
benefits from scale and expertise. 
3. Differentiation and cost leadership
Two of Synergy’s longstanding strategic principles have been to 
operate a cost leadership programme as well as to competitively 
differentiate certain aspects of our services. We continue to 
benchmark our performance against competitors including in-house 
services, and with our investments in technology and innovation, 
we continue to lead our markets in the cost-effective delivery of 
outsourced services.
In parallel we continue to invest in our teams to expand and deepen 
a talent pool that will enable Synergy to differentiate itself from its 
competitors through its people. Our partnerships with Warwick 
Business School and the Chartered Management Institute are 
important investments that enable us to create sustainable leadership, 
as well as a culture that differentiates Synergy based on the quality of 
its people. We have a global senior leadership community that plays an 
active role in the implementation of our strategy. In addition we have 
an expanding graduate programme that is recruiting a new talent pool 
from which to develop our future leaders. 
Outlook
Last year we decided to make a transition to a regionally managed 
business, enabling us to have greater strategic oversight of each 
region, to improve efficiencies by extracting cost synergies, and to 
build a management structure that would facilitate the creation of 
a fourth region in the Americas. All of these objectives were fulfilled 
during the year, with margins sustainably restored to an appropriate 
level, improved oversight of both organic and acquisitive growth 
opportunities, and, just after the year end, the establishment of the 
Americas region with the acquisition of BeamOne. 
Synergy’s focus is on the provision of niche outsourcing services 
that create significant value for our customers. Our services are 
mission-critical to our customers and for this reason the demand 
for outsourcing is growing. Looking ahead we expect that rising 
regulatory and technical standards will continue to underpin 
demand together with the cost efficiency of Synergy’s services.
Our strategy to expand Synergy’s reach with the objective of becoming 
a global business is also working well. We are continuing to see 
stronger growth in Asia compared to our traditional markets and 
we expect this trend to continue. Our recent expansion into the 
Americas also provides a second source of significant growth for 
Synergy. For example, we have agreed an exclusive supply agreement 
in Costa Rica for sterilisation services to an important medical device 
business park, enabling us to double our electron beam capacity as 
well as add EtO services over the next year. Growth in the Americas, 
in combination with Asia, will see the Group’s overall revenue growth 
edge up towards double digit rates over the next 12 to 18 months. 
Higher revenue growth rates, supported by sustainable margins and 
strong cash generation, leave the business well positioned to continue 
to deliver its earnings objectives.
Dr Richard M Steeves 
Chief Executive
£920m 2010: £850m
Forward order book
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 8
