 Chief Executive’s review  
Regional review
Despite modest underlying growth in the region of 2.3%, the 
core sterilisation business has grown strongly at 12.0%. Reported 
revenues were held back by the closure of £12 million of non-core 
businesses, poor winter weather, and further declines in our product 
manufacturing business. Reported revenues were £154.9 million 
(2010: £158.0 million). Operating profits increased by 7 .2% to £25.0 
million (2010: £23.3 million) with margins increasing by 1.3% to 16.1% 
(2010: 14.8%).
Sterilisation revenues for both the medical device and hospital markets 
were strong, both recording double digit growth. Within the medical 
device sector we have seen further capacity utilisation of the new 
electron beam facility in Ireland, and good underlying growth in the 
majority of our existing sterilisation facilities. We anticipate that we will 
need to add further sterilisation capacity in the region towards the end 
of the year.
Our hospital sterilisation service in the UK benefited from opening the 
Leicester facility in February, and growth will be sustained with a further 
three new facilities in the new financial year. This year we have won new 
contracts with an annual value of £9.6 million. The bid pipeline remains 
strong in the UK, and with the NHS clearly having to seek ways of 
improving efficiency, we see further momentum in this service 
particularly once the current political and structural uncertainties are 
addressed. An outstanding bid for hospital sterilisation in Ireland is 
unlikely to proceed at the present time because of the economic 
troubles in the country. 
The UK linen business has focused on restoring operating margins 
during the year and as a result revenues were flat. The business is 
operating well and has been successful in competitively differentiating 
itself by focusing on quality. Customer retention is strong and we expect 
to see some modest growth in circumstances where customers place 
a higher value on quality than price.
The laboratory business, which had previously seen a reduction in 
demand because of its dependence on the UK economy, has returned 
to growth. Prospects for pathology and occupational health testing 
remain positive.
Our Healthcare Solutions business, which manufactures infection 
control and other consumable healthcare products, has struggled with 
an over reliance on the UK market, which has seen very challenging 
trading conditions. The team is currently restructuring its operations, 
and lowering the cost base by reducing the number of sites from four 
to two. In addition, changes to the senior management structure are 
facilitating a much more internationally focused growth strategy that 
in combination with more progressive cost leadership should 
see a return to revenue growth.
UK and Ireland
The strategy for this region is primarily organically driven; promoting 
outsourcing that generates improved quality and efficiency.
Last year we restructured the business into three 
geographic regions: the UK and Ireland; Europe and 
the Middle East; and Asia and Africa. The creation 
of these regions has resulted in cost synergies as well 
as improving our local market understanding and 
responsiveness.
Following the acquisition of BeamOne in the United 
States and Costa Rica, we will be reporting a fourth 
region – the Americas. 
11 154.9
158.0
160.3
135.0
10
09
08
Revenue £m
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 16 Our strategy Governance Financials Operating and financial review Who we are
Underlying revenues for Europe and the Middle East were up 5.4% 
before currency effects. Reported revenues were £118.8 million (2010: 
£117 .4 million). Operating profits were up 15.6% to £20.5 million (2010: 
£17 .8 million) with margins increasing by 2.2% to 17 .3% (2010: 15.1%), 
reflecting the increased cost synergies from the new regional structure.
The Dutch linen business continued to operate efficiently and effectively. 
As the market leader, our scale advantage has enabled us to improve 
cost efficiencies and cash generation. Throughout the year our primary 
competitor has been using a price-driven strategy in an attempt to gain 
market share but this is being countered by our relentless focus on 
quality and efficiency. 
Revenue growth was primarily derived from the sterilisation business, 
principally the medical device market. Synergy is the leading provider of 
medical device sterilisation services in this region. We have a particular 
strength in gamma radiation but we have been expanding our services 
to include ethylene oxide (EtO) and electron beam. Our first Continental 
EtO facility in Venlo reached capacity during the year, and additional 
capacity has now been commissioned. To support further growth we 
have started building a new gamma facility in Marcoule, France, which 
will significantly improve our competitive position in southern Europe. 
In addition, we acquired GSP , near Dresden, Germany, giving us our first 
Continental electron beam facility in the region, as well as much needed 
gamma capacity to service the eastern European market. The 
acquisition has integrated well and outperformed expectations to date.
Our hospital sterilisation business operates from two of the largest 
hospitals in the Netherlands and Belgium. Whilst we are operating 
successful services, the markets have been slow to develop. We 
continue to bid on a selective basis for additional contracts with a 
particular focus on Germany, but progress has been slower than we had 
anticipated, in part because we have prioritised the expansion of our 
medical device sterilisation network. However, we are continuing to look 
for opportunities to further expand our hospital sterilisation business in 
Europe and the Middle East, and we may consider an acquisition to 
accelerate market entry.
Our facilities are located in South Africa, Malaysia, Thailand and China. Our 
strategy is to invest in each of these countries to support continued organic 
growth as well as to expand our geographic presence across the region.
Underlying revenues in Asia and Africa were up 16.3% before currency 
effects. Revenues were £13.6 million (2010: £11.0 million) with good 
growth across the region. Operating profits were up 25.1% to £2.7 million 
(2010: £2.2 million) with operating margins flat at 19.9% (2010: 19.8%).
The region’s revenues are derived from sterilisation services to both the 
medical device and hospital sterilisation markets. The medical device 
volumes have improved again on last year, demonstrating a robust 
recovery from the impact of the financial crisis two years ago. We have 
made progress improving the capacity utilisation of our new facility in 
Suzhou, China, and we expect to have the site operating at near 
to capacity within the next 18 months. The majority of our Suzhou 
customers are subsidiaries of large multinational manufacturers 
headquartered in the United States. For example, we are contracting with 
two of the top ten largest US manufacturers for work with an annualised 
value of £1.8 million. The acquisition of BeamOne was an important 
step to deepen our relationships with these customers. We have also 
commissioned additional capacity in our existing Malaysian facility and 
we intend to broaden our reach by establishing capacity in Kuala Lumpur. 
We have also seen reasonable growth in Thailand although there is 
presently a surplus of gamma capacity in the country. We are planning 
to broaden our technology offering as a means of further differentiating 
Synergy and to meet the requirements of our existing customers.
Our hospital sterilisation volumes have improved in China. We now 
process equipment through the Suzhou facility for over 30 hospitals and 
smaller healthcare institutions. Our service is widely recognised by the 
Chinese Provincial Government as playing a key role in lifting sterilisation 
standards and reducing infection risks particularly in medium sized, class 
two hospitals. However, we have not been able to make sufficient progress 
expanding our network beyond Suzhou and our plans for expansion will 
take longer than initially anticipated. One of the key issues is that the 
Chinese healthcare market is going through a major transition driven by 
the Government’s new five year plan that will see China become one 
of the world’s largest national health systems by the end of the decade. 
Whereas three years ago healthcare policy makers were focusing on risk 
management, today the focus of attention is on the RMB 12.3 billion 
(£1.2 billion) investment to expand capacity. We are still committed to 
achieving our medium term objectives of establishing a sizeable network 
in China and we are increasing our investment to support the project.
Elsewhere in Asia we are developing a strategy to expand our hospital 
sterilisation services. In Malaysia for example, the Government has 
initiated a pilot outsourcing project and Synergy has been actively 
engaged with local companies that could ultimately become long term 
partners in the region.
Asia and Africa
The Asia and Africa region is one of our most promising, with 
a combination of very positive macroeconomics as well as an 
underlying demand by certain Asian countries to dramatically 
improve the quality of their healthcare services. 
Europe and the Middle East
Our strategy in Europe is to expand the full range of our sterilisation 
services to hospitals and medical device manufacturers, primarily 
through organic growth. 
11 118.8
117.4
104.7
82.7
10
09
08
Revenue £m
11 13.6
11.0
9.1
7.3
10
09
08
Revenue £m
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 17
