 Our strategy Operating and financial review Governance Financials Who we are
Chairman’s statement
Our focus on outsourced sterilisation 
services to the medical device and 
healthcare industries is serving the 
business well
2011 has been a good year for Synergy Health, continuing the 
improvement in operating performance and at the same time making 
incremental progress towards our strategy of becoming a leading 
global provider of outsourced sterilisation and other niche services. 
Despite the markets in Europe and the UK remaining challenging 
due to restrained public expenditure, our business has performed 
well with good underlying growth in each of our regions. 
Reported revenues for the period were £287 .3 million (2010: £286.4 
million). Underlying revenue growth, after currency effects and the 
removal of non-core businesses, was 4.1%. Adjusted operating 
margins were up by 1.1% to 15.0% (2010: 13.9%) resulting in 
profit before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items increasing 
by 17.3% to £38.3 million (2010: £32.6 million). 
In late 2010 we won a court case in respect of a fire at our Dunstable 
linen operation in 2007 resulting in an exceptional pre-tax gain of £5.6 
million. In addition, two acquisitions were undertaken and the costs of 
these were expensed as non-recurring items. After taking account of 
amortisation and non-recurring items, profit before tax increased by 
49.7% to £36.7 million (2010: £24.5 million).
As part of a strategy to continue to expand our international network, 
during the year we acquired Gamma Service Produktbestrahlung 
GmbH (‘GSP’), a gamma and electron beam sterilisation business 
in Germany. We took a further step just after the year end with the 
acquisition of BeamOne LLC (‘BeamOne’) in the USA, making Synergy 
the second largest global provider of outsourced sterilisation services. 
Both businesses have been integrated successfully and are performing 
ahead of expectations.
The acquisitions were funded from operating cash flow, enabling us to 
retain a strong balance sheet at the year end. Net debt has reduced by 
£21.1 million to £112.3 million (2010: £133.4 million) but remained 
similar to last year’s net debt position after taking into account the 
BeamOne acquisition completed on the 7 April 2011. We will shortly 
be completing new unsecured five year revolving credit facilities, to 
replace the existing facility which is due to mature in January 2012. 
During the year, new contracts and contract renewals of £114 million 
have been achieved, increasing the forward order book to £920 million. 
EPS and dividend
Adjusted basic earnings per share (before amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and non-recurring items) were 53.54p (2010: 45.74p), 
an increase of 17 .1%. After taking account of amortisation and 
non-recurring items, basic earnings per share were 52.10p 
(2010: 40.56p), an increase of 28.5%. 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.84p, which together with 
the interim dividend of 6.00p would give dividends for the year totalling 
15.84p (2010: 13.2p) representing a 20% increase. If approved, the 
dividend will be paid on 6 September 2011 to shareholders on the 
register at 12 August 2011.
Employees
To ensure the long term sustainability of the business we have 
continued to invest in our teams with the expansion of our talent 
management programme. Our ability to support the growth of our 
business through internal appointments is being greatly enhanced 
by the evolution of our graduate programme, increased investment 
in front line management programmes, and the development of our 
senior leadership community. We are also taking steps to improve the 
attractiveness of Synergy to new recruits from a broader range of the 
community, with a clear and well executed diversity strategy. 
The Board continues to be impressed with the efforts and 
commitment of our teams and this is very much reflected in the 
improved operating and financial performance that we have achieved 
during the year. We would also like to welcome our new colleagues 
from GSP in Germany and from BeamOne in the USA and Costa Rica. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for 
their continued dedication and their achievements during the year. 
Outlook
Our underlying growth rate is progressing, supported by our strategy 
to further internationalise the business. In Europe and the UK we are 
not anticipating any significant change in the economic environment 
and as a result we expect to see a similar trading performance in the 
current financial year, whilst in Asia and the Americas we continue 
to see much stronger growth.
Our focus on outsourced sterilisation services to the medical device 
and healthcare industries is serving the business well, with the new 
financial year having started strongly. We anticipate a similarly strong 
performance in this new financial year. 
Robert E Lerwill 
Chairman
7 June 2011
Synergy Health plc 
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 3
