 Synergy remains well placed  
to exploit its core competitive 
strengths, strong operational 
capabilities and internationally 
respected brand. 
Strategic report 
Chairman’s statement 
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to report that Synergy has continued to make 
further progress with its objective to expand internationally, 
win new contracts and to build a forward order book that 
will result in a sustainable increase in growth. Our decision 
to enter the US market has resulted in two of the largest 
contract wins in Synergy’s history, worth a combined  
£40 million of annualised revenues, and will pave the  
way for future development of the US outsourcing market. 
Similar progress, albeit on a smaller scale, is being  
made in China with the rapid expansion of our hospital 
sterilisation network.
Results
Our progress in 2014 delivers a robust set of results 
achieved in challenging economic conditions, with 
signiﬁcant growth in operating proﬁt and earnings per 
share. Reported revenue of £380.5 million (2013:  
£361.2 million) was up 5.3%, and after removing the 
impact of currency movements was up 4.1%. Adjusted 
operating proﬁt was £61.3 million (2013: £56.2 million), 
representing an increase of 9.1%. Underlying adjusted 
operating proﬁt growth was 7 .9%. Adjusted operating 
margin increased to 16.1% (2013: 15.6%), an increase  
of 50 basis points. 
Over one quarter of our revenue now comes from our 
Americas and Asia & Africa regions, up from 22% in 2013, 
and we expect this trend to remain in place for some time.
We have continued the restructuring of our Dutch linen 
business and closed and consolidated a further two 
facilities during the year. The combined effects of 
acquisition-related expenditure and Dutch restructuring 
costs resulted in non-recurring costs of £3.3 million. After 
taking account of amortisation, non-recurring items and 
acquisition-related costs, proﬁt before tax increased by 
13.0% to £42.9 million (2013 restated: £38.0 million). 
Shareholder return
Driven by the growth in revenue and operating margin, 
adjusted basic earnings per share before intangibles, 
amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related 
costs amounted to 70.59p (2013 restated: 65.58p), an 
increase of 7 .6%. After taking account of amortisation, 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, basic 
earnings per share were 57 .81p (2013 restated: 53.00p), 
an increase of 9.1%. The ﬁnal dividend will be paid, subject 
to shareholder approval, on 4 September 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 8 August 2014.
An interim dividend of 8.57p per share (2013: 7 .90p)  
was paid to shareholders on 13 December 2013. The 
Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 14.20p, which 
together with the interim dividend would give dividends  
for the year totalling 22.77p (2013: 20.70p) representing  
a 10.0% increase. 
8 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business development and acquisitions
In 2013/14, we won a number of contracts that in 
aggregate added £0.5 billion to our forward order book, 
which now stands at £1.5 billion including contracts at 
preferred bidder stage. In addition we opened one new 
gamma irradiation facility at Marcoule, France and, after  
the close of this ﬁnancial year, acquired the Bioster Group 
for €29 million net of cash and debt, extending Synergy’s 
Applied Sterilisation Technologies network into Italy and 
Eastern Europe. 
Further details of this acquisition and other investments are 
disclosed in the Regional Operating Review, and in the 
notes to the ﬁnancial statements. Our strategy of growing 
key industry sectors through acquisitions is unchanged, 
and with our strong ﬁnancial position we will continue to 
consider targeted bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate 
strategic acquisitions to increase shareholder value.
The Board
On 25 July, 2013, it was announced that Dr Richard 
Steeves, Group CEO would succeed me as Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Group upon my retirement on 31 March 
2014, and that Dr Adrian Coward would take over from 
Richard as Group CEO. On account of the expanding 
opportunities for growth in outsourced hospital sterilisation 
services in the US, and as the Group continues to grow, 
there is a need to split strategic and operational oversight 
via a separate CEO and COO. Therefore, the Board has 
decided that Dr Steeves should defer his move from CEO  
to Chairman and similarly I have delayed my retirement. Dr 
Adrian Coward, formerly CEO for the UK & Ireland region, 
has now taken on a broader role as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
for the Group and joined the Board on the 31 March 2014.
Jeff Harris joined the Board as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director in September 2013. Jeff brings 
impressive business and governance experience from his 
time as Chief Executive and then Chairman of Alliance 
UniChem plc, and through serving on a number of other 
plc boards. 
Tim Mason, Group Company Secretary, is to retire at the 
conclusion of the next annual general meeting ('AGM'),  
on 23 July 2014. Jon Turner, currently Head of Tax and 
Treasury, will assume a broader role, becoming Group 
Company Secretary at that time. The Board would like to 
thank Tim for his excellent support over the last ﬁve years, 
and wish Jon every success in his new role. 
The Board places great emphasis on governance and  
is mindful of its responsibility to promote the long-term 
interests of the Company for all our stakeholders. This  
is described in detail in the governance section of our 
Annual Report, on pages 40 to 74.
Corporate responsibility 
We give high priority to compliance and ethics, as well  
as health, safety and the environment. Our core values  
of integrity, innovation, accountability and achievement  
are central to the relationships we have with all our 
stakeholders, and underpin how we treat our customers, 
our suppliers, and the wider communities in which we 
operate. Details of the Group’s approach to corporate  
and social responsibility are disclosed on page 38 of  
the strategic review.
Our people
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all staff for  
their focus and engagement throughout the year. Synergy’s 
well-earned reputation for operational excellence, and  
its ability to deliver on its commitments to customers, is 
testament to the effectiveness of those efforts and the 
shared values to which we all subscribe. 
Outlook
Synergy remains well placed to exploit its core  
competitive strengths, strong operational capabilities  
and internationally respected brand. The business  
has a number of opportunities for earnings-enhancing 
investment, and the Board is conﬁdent that these  
will deliver strong growth in shareholder value over  
the coming years.
Sir Duncan Nichol
Chairman
4 June 2014
9 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
