 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012   15
Chief Executive’s 
review
ﬁnal quarter began to recover sharply and we expect the business 
to achieve the Group’s minimum ﬁnancial targets in the new year. 
The Group is in a good position with an internationally diversiﬁed 
business providing high value-added services, underpinned by long 
term contracts and excellent cash generation. Our balance sheet 
remains strong, with gearing well below our internal ceiling for net 
debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times.
Strategy
The Board set out its strategy four years ago and believes the 
successful outcomes that have been achieved endorse the plan. 
To recap, there are four strands to the strategy: internationalisation; 
focus on high value-added services with high barriers to entry; 
differentiation through our people and the way we deliver our 
services; and cost leadership. 
Our core service is the provision of outsourced sterilisation for 
medical device manufacturers (‘Applied Sterilisation’) and for 
healthcare providers such as acute hospitals (‘Hospital Sterilisation’). 
In addition, we are a leading provider of linen services in the UK and 
the Netherlands, a manufacturer of infection control products and a 
provider of specialist laboratory services (‘Healthcare Solutions’). 
The growth of our Applied Sterilisation business has been a priority 
and this is reﬂected in global reported revenue for this service up 
36.1% to £95.4 million (2011: £70.1 million). Hospital Sterilisation 
revenue was up 10.5% to £62.8 million (2011: £56.9 million), whilst 
healthcare linen revenue was ﬂat at £112.0 million (2011: £112.9 
million). During the year we sold a small Scottish distribution business 
and we have seen the full year effect of rationalising non-core 
businesses. As a result, revenue within the combined Healthcare 
Solutions business declined to £153.7 million (2011: £160.4 million). 
Internationalisation 
Synergy operates its business as four geographic regions. The 
structure provides the depth and resilience necessary to operate 
a geographically diverse business, as well as providing responsive 
leadership as close to the customer as possible. The continuing 
strategy of internationalisation will also play an important role going 
forward, mitigating the impact of economic uncertainties in Europe, 
and also providing opportunities for growth in the faster growing 
regions of the world. Details of the Group’s trading performance 
and results by region are shown in the Regional review on the 
following pages.
Outlook
Synergy’s focus is on the provision of niche outsourcing services 
that create signiﬁcant value for our customers. Our outsourced 
sterilisation services are mission-critical to our customers and 
for this reason demand continues to hold up well, despite clear 
economic headwinds in certain parts of the world, particularly 
Europe. We are particularly excited by the opportunities that we have 
in China and the US for the expansion of our Hospital Sterilisation 
Services business, and we believe that the global demand for our 
Applied Sterilisation Technologies business will continue to be strong.
Our strategy to extend Synergy’s reach has progressed well with the 
expansion of our services in the Americas, Switzerland and Malaysia. 
The business is well positioned and we remain committed to strong 
underlying revenue growth with sustainable margins. 
Dr Richard Steeves 
Group CEO
7 June 2012
Dr Richard M Steeves 
Chief Executive
Introduction
Synergy is a global leader in outsourced sterilisation services using 
a range of technologies. In addition, Synergy provides other niche 
outsourced services such as healthcare linen, pathology and 
specialist laboratory services. All of our businesses have the beneﬁt 
of signiﬁcant barriers to entry, stable long term contracts, and good 
cash generation.
We have made further progress implementing our strategy through 
increasing investment in the faster growing Asian and American 
markets, expanding our geographic coverage with acquisitions in 
the US, Malaysia and Switzerland, and bringing forward our plans to 
enter the US hospital sterilisation market. We were also pleased that 
organic growth improved during the ﬁrst half of the year but this has 
since reduced slightly, reﬂecting the economic downturn in Europe. 
In response to the risk of declining growth, we took the opportunity in 
November to further reduce our cost base and that has fed through 
into sustainably improved operating margins.
The Group achieved reported revenue growth of 8.6%. Underlying 
organic revenue growth, excluding currency effects and non-core 
businesses, was 5.4%. After allowing for the 53rd week in last year’s 
comparator, organic growth was 7 .5% compared with 4.1% for the 
year ending 2011. The success of our strategy to internationalise 
Synergy is reﬂected in our reported growth rate. UK & Ireland and 
Europe & Middle East grew at 2.2% and 3.8% respectively. Asia & 
Africa and the Americas grew at 31.6% and 24.6% (pro forma) 
respectively. As we continue to implement our strategy, our reliance 
on the UK and Europe reduces, with Asia and the Americas 
accounting for 9.8% of total revenue compared to 4.7% last year. 
During the second half of the year we focused on reducing our 
cost base in the face of concerns around the macroeconomic 
environment in Europe. Four facilities were closed and their 
operations merged into other facilities. These closures, together with 
other efﬁciency gains, assisted in increasing margins to new levels for 
the Group. Gross margins were up by 1.7% to 39.9% (2011: 38.2%) 
and adjusted operating margin was up 0.7% on last year to 15.7% 
(2011: 15.0%). 
I am pleased to say that issues within our UK products based 
business are being resolved, and whilst this business did not make 
a material contribution to the overall Group proﬁt, margins in the 
Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview
