 Chief Executive’s Review
Steve Vaughan 04
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Synstar has shown itself able to build upon a
heritage of service based on Maintenance to build 
a strong capability for Business Continuity, and now
for Managed Services. The time is right to take the
opportunity for that growth in Managed Services 
to develop Synstar at a faster rate. We will pursue
that growth with the same vigour that produced the
considerable progress over the past three years.
Introduction
In January 2001, Synstar embarked upon a
programme of immense change. My three
year strategy was designed to make the most
of customer relationships and build an
integrated IT services business. We have
invested much time, effort and money during
those three years. The results – financial,
commercial and technical – are encouraging. 
2003 has been another year of profit growth
for Synstar, with adjusted earnings per share
up 6% to 3.6 pence. Sales of larger contracts
and more long term relationships have
increased the order book by 56% in the past
year. We have also exceeded expectations for
cash generation, ending the year with £26.9m
of net cash. The balance sheet has never been
stronger and supports our maiden dividend.
During the year, we were troubled by the
performance of our businesses in France.
This makes our negotiations for the disposal
of this business all the more important. 
Excluding France, operating profit from our
business was up 30% at £11.8m (2002:
£9.1m). If completed, our disposal of this 
business will represent a firm resolution of a
difficult problem and leave in place a partner
with whom we can continue to develop our
international customer relationships.
The successful outcome of our strategy has
opened the door to an opportunity. We have
developed a capability to win and deliver
Managed Services. The market for this type of
business is expanding, and our track record
has developed well. We can develop this into
a major new profit stream. At the same time,
we have become concerned at the rate of
margin erosion and price pressure in other
parts of our business. We have to take this
opportunity quickly to keep our profits secure
in the long term. The actions we need to take
will necessarily have a detrimental effect on
the coming financial year, particularly in the
first half, but the expected long term benefits
are considerable. Our strategy has to continue
into the future, and this review explains how. 
Phase 3 of the strategic plan 
is drawing to a close. The key 
elements of the strategy were:
➞ to have a much-increased focus
on the identification and closure
of larger more joined up deals
with our key customers
➞ to rollout our standard service
lines across the whole of the
Company – to enable us to deliver
full infrastructure Managed
Services consistently across 
the whole of Europe
➞ to increase upon staff development,
careers and communication, as our
business becomes increasingly
dependent upon quality of people
rather than quantity of assets 05
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
€4m
Synstar Spain wins two public sector
deals worth 4m Euros.
“By combining our German and UK businesses
into one pan-European unit we are able to
quickly capitalise on their strengths. Despite
challenging economic conditions in Germany,
it has achieved the highest customer
satisfaction scores in the Group. This is a
sound foundation on which we can transfer
our UK Managed Services success to this
market and accelerate our revenue growth.”
Mike Ettling, Managing Director,
UK & Germany
2003 review
The key feature of the year has been the
growth of our ability to win larger and more
complex contracts. We have improved the key
capabilities required for these transactions.
We are better able to understand the needs
of our customers, and to explain more
complex propositions to our customers. We
have become better at combining several
parts of our offering to produce a better,
lower cost solution. New Managed Services
customer wins during the year have included
Cognotec (in Ireland), the UK Atomic Weapons
Establishment (AWE), the Dutch Ministry of
Defence (DTO), a large UK private healthcare
provider and the Spanish Department of
Health (CAM).
A Managed Services business must deliver
excellent service as well. We must deliver
change programmes to make improvements to
the way customer infrastructure operate. 
At AWE we have implemented a
fundamentally new way of managing 
the network so that service levels can be
proactively managed. We need to be able to
take on staff from the customer and integrate
them with our own resources so that the new
combination can be more effective. Our recent
survey from Investors in People has specially
praised our skills in staff transfer. We need to
work effectively with partners, and Synstar
has always been well known for this – our
business with CSC has expanded by 23%
during the year. For all these reasons, we are
becoming an important force in the provision
of Managed Services.
At the same time, our existing services have
prospered. Our many customers who depend
on us for Maintenance and Business
Continuity remain the major part of our
revenue. Growth of these relationships has
continued through the year. It is particularly
pleasing when these relationships are
renewed or expanded in a major way. We
have agreed global contracts to provide
Maintenance to Shell and Reuters, both
already significant customers.
The financial report shows that these plans
have borne the most fruit in the UK. But this
is not solely a UK-centric success story.
As an example, our business in Spain has
benefited in the last few months from a
greater focus on fewer, larger opportunities.
Wins with the Health Service and Traffic
Department have brought new business worth
about €4m per annum to the business and
leads us to expect improvement in Spanish
profits during 2004. 
Unfortunately not all our operations have 
had such a good year. The performance 
of our French business has been very poor,
especially in the second half of the year. 
The reasons for this are covered in more
detail later. In Belgium our margin has
declined because our largest customers 
have reduced their IT budgets and the rate 
of project work has fallen off. Renewals 
have been achieved, but at lower margin. 
In Germany, economic conditions have been
very difficult. A lack of new name sales and
too much dependence on a weak product
solutions market have depressed the revenue.
Our German business needs more attention on
cost reduction and management strengthening
to improve the profits and drive some growth.
Some steps have already been taken, and we
are investigating opportunities to make more
radical improvements.
continued on page 6 2003 review continued 
Business Continuity has delivered another
good performance. The revenue remains
strong, our margins remain high, and
customers regard this service with growing
interest. We have expanded our capabilities
with some careful investment during the year.
We have introduced the service to Germany
with the opening of our new Business
Recovery Centre near Frankfurt. 
We have improved our capability in other
centres. Despite this investment, we have
continued to increase our ROCE in this
business. For the future, we have new service
offerings, expanding Business Continuity into
a fully-fledged high availability computing
capability – continuous computing whatever
goes wrong. This solution has been tried
successfully with several customers, and is
now being launched to existing customers as
a major expansion in service.
The year was rounded off with the signing of
our largest ever contract (£200m) – to provide
Fujitsu Computer Services with Maintenance
logistics services. From April 2005 we will
deliver the right spares at the right time to
Fujitsu engineers all over Europe. Our solution
uses our own logistics organisation, which
will treble in size as a result. This contract is
a form of Business Process Outsourcing – a
new departure for Synstar. Most importantly,
it shows us able to construct this type of
complex, leveraged, value based proposition.
Review of the marketplace
Synstar’s services proposition is founded upon
the three facts that we can:
a) Deliver it better than our customers
can do it themselves;
b) Provide a range of matched services
covering the whole infrastructure –
more than a niche provider; and,
c) Leave the customer in control of the part
of the IT spend that really adds to his
competitive advantage – the applications.
In recent years, changes in the marketplace
have made these features more attractive to
customers. Customers want fewer suppliers;
those that remain must be able to deliver a
range of services. Life is getting harder for
the niche players. Customers want variable
pricing – paying more when demand is high,
less in slack periods. Contracts are not won
just by being cheap. 
Customers are more wary of long term
commitments involving large scale 
outsourcing. It is harder for the big outsourcers
to sell their huge, generic propositions.
There is an emerging space in the market for a
range of services of good quality in an offering
that provides a clear return for the customer.
This is where Synstar is positioned. 
Although there is a space opening for us 
in the market, we are not immune to market
pressures. As we renew our long term
contracts, we are seeing a real squeeze of
margins. Sometimes we can resist this pressure
by offering more services or finding new ways
to reduce cost. Sometimes, but not always.
Nowhere has this squeeze been more felt than
in our Maintenance business. Small scale
maintenance of PCs and printers is already at
such a low price it is hard to make a profit. This
state of affairs will spread to other areas of
maintenance that have been a major source of
our profit. We must expect that other parts of
our service offering will go the same way –
product-based solutions and network cabling
for example.
continued on page 9
Chief Executive’s Review
continued 06
Synstar plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2003
21%
Business Continuity operating profit 
up 21%.
“Synstar currently provides logistics
services to its own network of UK and
European operations and both Synstar 
and Fujitsu Services have established that
there are clear benefits in combining the
investment and sharing economies of scale
involved in this activity. The agreement will
see Fujitsu Services enhancing its logistics
capability significantly.”
Steve Hill, Services Director 07
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
£200m contract signed with Fujitsu
Synstar has signed a £200m contract to provide Fujitsu Services with
a logistics service to support Maintenance contracts of Fujitsu’s
operations in the UK and mainland Europe. The deal encompasses 
the delivery of computer parts, and the associated capital purchases,
strategic planning, bid support, warehousing and distribution. 
CASE STUDY FUJITSU
“We have been piloting Synstar’s service
since January 2003 and have been
impressed by the dynamic and flexible
service delivery that we have received.
This, coupled with the innovative nature 
of the commercial deal, made the Synstar
offer compelling.”
Andy MacNaughton, Group Commercial Director,
Fujitsu Services Chief Executive’s Review
continued 08
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
“In the past three years, under the leadership of Steve
Vaughan, Synstar has enjoyed notable successes in
developing best practice in the UK. My newly created
role is to instil that best practice through operations in
Ireland, Belgium, The Netherlands, Luxembourg and
the UK Public Sector, developing new business and
enhancing service delivery to our customers. I’m
particularly excited about the work we are doing in 
bringing together the public sector expertise we have
built up in recent years, identifying synergies
throughout Europe and further streamlining our
services into this market.”
Ruth Kirby, Managing Director, 
Belgium, The Netherlands, Luxembourg, 
Ireland and UK Public Sector 09
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Review of the marketplace continued
Our strategy’s first three phases were designed
to develop Managed Services as a replacement.
This is developing, but we are concerned that
the Maintenance margin will decline faster than
the Managed Services margin will increase.
Action is needed to accelerate.
To successfully respond to the evolving
market we must address two fundamental
issues – our European business, and our
ability to win Managed Services. I will cover
our plans for each of these in turn. Together,
they represent the next stage in strategy for
Synstar – ‘Phase 4’.
The European question
The multi-national dimension of Synstar’s
service offering has been a key feature of our
business in recent years. Infrastructure service
providers with a European reach appear to have
an advantage over more local players. Some of
our large, multinational customers buy from us
partly because we can deliver a standard
service in many different places. But this
geographic reach comes with a cost. Our
business is quite complex, and the management
controls needed are costly. We have sub
locations that are sub-critical. There is a trade-
off between the benefits of a wide reach and
the cost of achieving it, and the balance point
of this trade-off must be re-evaluated.
In addressing those parts of the Group that
are under-performing, we have tried different
solutions, with differing success.
One solution is to make an investment in
focus and business development. Our Spanish
business has benefited from this approach.
A new sales force, development of some new
services, and focusing of our sales resources
on fewer, larger opportunities have produced a
major improvement in the business. In 2004,
this business will move from break even to a
profit on the back of a series of contract wins.
Our Dutch and Irish businesses have responded
in the same way to a similar approach.
Elsewhere, we have used a model of
presence in a country for delivery only.
Denmark is an example, where we deliver 
to a small range of customers without the
overhead of direct management, sales force
or legal entity. In some situations, this can 
be effective and low cost, while preserving
the benefits of service quality that
membership of a large group can provide.
Despite our best efforts, we have been unable
to be successful in some parts of Europe. In
past years I have taken the difficult decision to
sell our businesses in Italy and Switzerland.
In each case, we have retained them as our
appointed subcontractors in those countries,
and thus have been able to provide a seamless
and consistent service to our customers.
We are now in advanced negotiations to sell
our business in France. We expect to complete
these negotiations, and the necessary works
council consultations, in the near future. To
explain the reasons for this development, it 
is worth explaining how our French business
has performed recently. It is a long term loss
making business. The revenue streams depend
on project and product revenue for over 50%
of the revenue, areas that market conditions
have hit hard. We have a less well focused
customer base in France, and the fixed cost 
of covering the whole country with mobile
engineers is onerous.
continued on page 10
56
%
Order book has increased by 56%.
“Strategic Accounts was formed after listening to
feedback from our major pan-European customers.
They commented that ‘major customers need
significant commitment’ from their chosen providers,
‘more of a partnership working together to meet 
joint business objectives’. Today, Strategic 
Accounts includes CSC, Galileo and major users 
of infrastructure support services across Europe,
providing high levels of support to major customers.
The Spanish business is showing great promise with 
two significant wins in the fourth quarter, worth a total
of €4m. Both contracts are with Spanish government
agencies and are contracted for infrastructure support
services and underpin our strategy with a broad
mixture of new services delivered directly by Synstar.”
Keith Headland, Managing Director 
for Strategic Accounts and Spain Chief Executive’s Review
continued 10
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
44%
UK operating profit up 44%.
“Many organisations have recognised that outsourcing the entire IT
function (including IT strategy) is too risky. Yet keeping all elements
of IT in-house can prove costly and inefficient. The launch of our
Managed Services division means that companies can on-source
particular elements of their IT and associated processes to Synstar
and in doing so strip out inefficiencies and gain industry leading
processes. And through working with Synstar’s Managed Services
team, they can maintain total control of their business. I believe that
there is a massive opportunity for this type of proposition to be
successful in our markets and I’m excited about the role I’ll be
playing in making it work.”
Russell Flower, Managed Services Director
The European question continued
The cost reduction measures to address
these issues are very difficult to carry out
successfully in France, and experience shows
it is even harder to do this when the business
is part of an international group. All these
reasons suggest that a smaller scale, locally
managed solution represents a better future
for the business.
The disposal would follow a similar pattern
to the two preceding transactions. We will
achieve the benefits of a clean break exit
from a difficult business making losses. At
the same time have retained a local delivery
partner that uses our processes and is tightly
bound into our delivery infrastructure. Synstar
France will continue as a close partner, an
important component of our service offering,
but an independent one.
These disposals – in Italy, Switzerland and
potentially France – have produced a new sort
of delivery capability in Europe. This ‘Synstar
Business Network’ represents a standardised
delivery solution with wide geographic reach,
while avoiding some of the costs inherent in
multinational organisations. I hope to be able
to expand this model in the coming years, to
provide the same level of integrated solutions
to the widening requirements of our customers.
Phase 4 and beyond
We have made good progress over the last
three years, and earned ourselves an
opportunity. From a background of business
dominated by Hardware Maintenance, we
have built a genuine multi-service-line,
Managed Services provider. The opportunity 
is to continue to do so with a much higher
level of commitment and volume. We need to
turn a series of exciting, different
relationships currently representing 
a minor part of our profit into the core of 
the business. 
We also face a pressing need to accelerate
this transition. We have seen a big increase in
price pressure in our core Maintenance market.
We must respond by ensuring that we outpace
this pressure by accelerating the rate of
progress of our Managed Services business. At
the same time, we must continue to exit from
elements of our core Maintenance offering
when margins fall below an acceptable level.
Synstar has faced this type of challenge
successfully in the past. Business Continuity
was developed as a new revenue stream
during the mid-nineties. This has become a
key part of our offering, delivering around half
of our profit. It replaced the profit stream
derived from business that is now very low
margin – product fulfilment, the sale of
consumables, etc. We have exited these
businesses over the past two years.
We have now put together a compelling track
record in the core elements of the Managed
Services offering – delivery to demanding
service levels; transfer of staff under TUPE;
skills in network management and call handling;
delivery of upgrade projects to improve
customer IT processes. We must accelerate
our capabilities in all of these areas to speed
up the development of this profit stream. 
We shall invest in our technical and project
management skills to deliver transition
projects and complex service delivery
requirements together with the sales and
sales support skills needed to create these
solutions for customers. 
continued on page 12 11
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Synstar wins new £15m contract with AWE 
In May 2003, Synstar began its £15m seven-year contract with the
Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE). The partnership sees AWE
using four out of Synstar’s five service lines: Managed Services,
Hardware Maintenance, Data Management and Networking Services.
The contract is another example of Synstar’s strategy to provide 
larger customers with innovative multi-service offerings under 
long term contracts. 
CASE STUDY AWE
“We were determined to find a partner who
was experienced in providing end-to-end
services, able to demonstrate innovative
approaches to our business and technology
requirements, and to do so in a cost effective
manner. Following extensive competition
and evaluation phases, we chose Synstar
to be that partner.”
Chris Locke, Head of IT Business Systems at AWE Chief Executive’s Review
continued 12
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Phase 4 and beyond continued
We shall invest in the senior management
team needed to sponsor these high-level
customer relationships and manage the rate of
change in the organisation. Clearly, as we exit
some parts of our Maintenance offering, a part
of the investment will be to reduce the cost
of delivery in those areas by retraining,
redeployment and in some cases the reduction
of spend in those areas. As a result, we
expect an operating exceptional charge of
approximately £5m.
A three-part view of our business will emerge
from the change. Firstly, Managed Services and
related large scale customer relationships will
become the key engine of growth for the
Company. We will develop this area with
innovation, good customer management and
sales effort. Secondly, Business Continuity will
remain as a key element of our profit, and
needs to be protected. This business will be
managed to keep margins high and customers
satisfied – stability will be the key requirement. 
Thirdly, the elements of our business with
a more limited future will be separated out
and managed carefully to ensure that costs
are driven down and business is exited where
the margins are too low. There will be three
parts of the business with three different
business objectives.
It is never an easy decision to make an
exceptional charge. The window to exploit this
opportunity is short. To delay – and delay
would be required if this investment were to
be funded only from run-rate spending – would
be to risk failure to exploit our opportunity
while we can. We believe that the return on
investment from this charge, represented by a
better long term profit stream, is worthwhile.
Summary
I joined Synstar nearly three years ago, and
since then have seen many changes in the
Company. Some aspects of our strategy have
gone well, and others less well. In retrospect,
however, I think it would have been very
ambitious to predict at the start that by now
Synstar would have signed one contract worth
£200m (with Fujitsu) and another worth over
£100m (with CSC). Our order book during this
year has increased by 56%. We have shown
our ability to compete for Managed Services
business with the most demanding customers
against major competitors. We have won this
sort of business, delivered it successfully, and
made a profit doing so. This is progress of
the best sort.
As our strategy matures, so we must now
grasp the opportunity provided by our
successes in Managed Services, and 
“We’re proud that Business Continuity has once again
‘delivered the goods’ as part of Synstar’s service
portfolio. Customers’ confidence in our capabilities
has helped increase revenues; improve profit
contribution; achieve an even better return on 
our investments; and, all the while, maintaining 
our track-record of successfully supporting those
customers at times of most need.
During the year, we initiated a merge with Synstar’s
Data Management activities. This exciting
development goes a long way towards meeting 
our customers’ increasing needs of ensuring higher
availability and agility of their data, business
workspace and IT infrastructure.”
Dennis Thomas, Business Continuity and Data
Management Director considerably accelerate this part of our
business. This means redeploying skills,
investment, assets and people to develop this
side of our business, and progressively reduce
the emphasis on the parts of our business with
a limited lifespan. We don’t have long to do
this, so our exceptional charge in the coming
year is warranted to be sure we exploit the
opportunity to the full.
The heritage of any organisation is always a
major factor determining its future. Synstar has
shown itself able to build upon a heritage of
service based on Maintenance to build a strong
capability for Business Continuity, and now for
Managed Services. The time is right to take
the opportunity of that growth in Managed
Services to develop Synstar at a faster rate.
We will pursue that growth with the same
vigour that produced the considerable progress
over the past three years. I look forward to the
next three years expecting no less progress.
Steve Vaughan
Chief Executive
1 December 2003
13
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Successful Invocation at AIB
When fire broke out at one of AIB’s offices in late 2002, they tested 
their meticulously prepared business recovery plan for very first time.
Synstar’s Dublin Business Recovery Centre was opened overnight and
prepared for staff using the centre the next day.
The AIB team has declared results of the invocation a great success.
Every staff member was able to perform his or her role perfectly using
the Synstar facilities, just as they would have done in their own
corporate office environment. And, most importantly, customers
remained completely unaffected by the crisis, even though the
temporary arrangements lasted a fortnight.
CASE STUDY ALLIED IRISH BANK (AIB GROUP)
AIB Invocation Timetable
18.45 Fire discovered
19.25 Fire extinguished
Midnight Configuration and test of 80 AIB positions 
of Synstar’s Dublin Business Recovery
Centre (BRC) begins
02.00 Majority of preparation work at BRC
completed
09.00 Business as usual
