 Steve Vaughan
Chief Executive P AGE 5
Introduction
t has been a difficult time to be an IT
company recently. Against a backdrop
of disappointing news throughout the
sector, I am extremely pleased to be able
to report that Synstar remains on track
with its plans, and has delivered better
results than the market expected. 
Our success comes from the strong
foundation built during the past 18 months.
We made difficult decisions and ambitious
plans during 2001, and have followed
through on these decisions and plans
during 2002. This puts the company in an
enviable position when compared to the
majority of its peers – we are profitable,
cash generative, debt free and growing.
We have benefited more than I had hoped
from the restructuring activities of last year.
The first half financial performance gave
us the foundation for the growth that was
the aim of our restructuring programme.
We exploited this in the second half. Our
business delivered second half operating
profits of £4.9m, generated £7.4m of cash
and ends the period with net cash of
£16.4m. Our revenues from long-term
business have also grown and our order
book has grown by 46% to £319m. The
second half also brought some notable
contract wins, such as CSC, Westland
Helicopters and Avecia. Taken together, I
believe all this demonstrates a company
in good shape, and one that can step up
to the challenge of growth.
It is to this challenge that we must now
devote our energy. Phase 1 of our plan
gave us the basis for a new and stronger
sales force, with relationship managers
focused on existing customers and
salesmen on new names. Our investment
in the training and support of these
people has produced a sales force that
can take on the best and win. They are
selling our new standard service lines,
developed and packaged during Phase 2
to match our customer requirements. 
We have many new services to bring to
market over the coming months to add
fuel to grow our sales. During Phase 3, as
the final key to successful sales growth,
we must convert the perception of
Synstar from niche maintenance and
disaster recovery provider to trusted
partner for delivery of integrated
managed services. There is plenty of
evidence that this change in our
customers’ perception is well underway.
Achieving this is the eventual definition of
the success of our strategy.
Progress with our strategy
I have long held that a company operates
best when it is following a clear plan and
has the right focus on its objectives. At
the start of 2001, our strategic review
created that plan. It was very clear about
the objectives – focus on profit and cash;
cross-sell services into our excellent
customer base; build a stable foundation
upon which the company could grow at 
I
Chief Executive’s Review
Increasingly
seen as a
trusted
managed services
provider
UK and Ireland
Depending on which research house you subscribe to, either the UK&I or
Germany has the largest IT market in Western Europe. Either way, UK&I
is an enormous market full of opportunity and combining leading-edge
technologies with still-important legacy architectures. Even though
budgets have been frozen or cut, efficiency and productivity must still
improve and it is this ‘more for less’ attitude which has driven the IT
market in the direction of outsourcing and total managed service. This
year we have won some mammoth deals, signing contracts of a type and
size which a few years ago would not even have existed. Virus alerts,
uninvited visitors to the corporate network and disgruntled employees are
all potential hazards which have the power to take a business to the wall.
We have recently launched services to assist customers in understanding
these hazards and minimising their risk, and we will continue to develop
them as we move through the coming months.
The Irish business continues to grow and generate a strong contribution.
In 2002 margin growth was on budget outperforming most competitors in
a tough trading year. The adoption of new service lines has seen an
increase in professional services revenue particularly in business 
continuity and network security in the public and banking sectors. We
have also seen two significant VIDA projects undertaken; the first of many.
In fact Synstar recently managed its first major Irish contract invocation
for a banking client; with Synstar supporting all processes, infrastructure,
logistics and staff delivered to plan and the customer suffered no
business interruption.
To meet the needs of the substantial Irish call centre market Synstar has
introduced a packaged business continuity product 
_
Contact Continuity
TM
.
The product, which has been enthusiastically received by the industry,
balances the focus on IT and work areas with a unique approach to the
vital telephony technology which is the heart of the contact business.
Two major call centres are already signed up and have tested
successfully. The business availability (BA) concept is vital to many UK&I
industries, and Synstar is proving that BA thinking is not only a great idea
but a reality too.
Mike Ettling, Managing Director for the UK and Ireland track record
Our clients trust us to keep on performing
because we know that tomorrow’s 
opportunities grow out of 
today’s hard work P AGE 7
above the market rate; and aim to become
a world class IT services provider. 
Our plan is split into three phases, and at
the half year I reported that Phase 2 was
nearing a successful conclusion. I can
now report that we did indeed achieve
the objectives of Phase 2 – ‘Stabilise,
Improve and Invest’. Stability is clear
from the financial results and the absence
of volatility. Improvement shows in the
resolution of several operational and
managerial issues such as the disposal of
our Swiss business and improvements in
logistics and networking business.
Investment is clearly yielding benefits in
the development of our service lines, as I
will outline below. Above all, we
managed a period devoid of major
upheavals, which gave our new
organisation and strategy the time to take
root. This is the basis of long-term
change and success.
Of course, it is unrealistic to expect any
plan to run faultlessly. Our French
business remains problematic, despite
the target that we could complete this
year with a break-even run rate. The
percentages of revenue in France which
depend upon short-term projects (which
have to be continuously bid and won)
and mobile engineering (which is much
lower margin) is higher than elsewhere. 
It takes longer to change the shape of a
business like this. We have more to do, but
remain sure that this part of our business,
the only loss-making element of the
Group, will be returned to profit.
During the second half we saw a strong
start to Phase 3. In particular, we fully
outlined the actions required during the
period to the end of 2003 to drive the
growth that we seek. We made a good
start on these actions and have begun to
see some results. We split these actions
into a number of ‘streams’, concentrating
our efforts on developing our service
lines, improving our internal processes,
investing in the skills and careers of our
staff, and stepping up the Synstar sales
performance. I will review the plans and
progress of each of these in turn.
Rollout of our service lines
Our service lines are the building blocks
of our growth strategy. We have the
customers; selling more services to them
is the plan for growth. Today, our service
lines are well matched, revolving as they
do around the support and development
of high availability computer
infrastructure. However, we are not yet
able to deliver all of our services in each
of the territories in which we operate.
The rollout of our existing services is one
key element of our Phase 3 plan. In
addition, the development of services to
meet new technical demands and higher
levels of business availability is receiving
attention.
Chief Executive’s Review
Continued
Foundations laid
for strong
and lasting
growth
Germany
The market in Germany was heavily influenced by the general economic
situation. Market growth in 2002 was only 0.5% against a forecast level of
2.4%. Accordingly this had an important impact on the IT sector with many IT
infrastructure projects either frozen or postponed. Despite this difficult situation
Synstar was able to keep the installed base at the same level as last year,
whilst also winning a very large and important computer services customer in
the automotive sector. Since this new project began the business has
expanded continuously. This particular customer win is also a good example of
our cross-selling activities. Business continuity is becoming more important to
our German operations, and since September 11 interest in our various
business continuity services has grown steadily resulting in our first BC
contract with a global financial services business taking approximately 100
seats in our new Frankfurt business recovery centre. 
Peter Rembert, Business Service Manager for Germany In the last two years we have stamped our commitment
on everything we do, building financial, technical and
commercial strength for the long haul
achievement P AGE 9
Business continuity
The performance of our business continuity
service offering during the year has been
excellent. Our focus on return on capital
employed (ROCE) – sweating the assets,
rather than the urge to build ever more
capacity – has produced very strong results.
ROCE is now above 70%, and operating
profits from this business have increased
by 22%. Achieving this level of return, we
can now consider opportunities to expand
our infrastructure. Recently, we invested in a
new Business Recovery Centre in Frankfurt,
a market that has not been accessible to
us in the past. We have already signed up
a global financial services business for
this new facility. We will continue to look for
relatively small-scale opportunities to
expand our capabilities, in both geography
and technology coverage, while always
keeping our main attention on the return
on the investment.
Networking
Our networking business is now focused
on long-term contracts and high value
consulting, rather than being dominated
by low margin product sales. The
Network Operating Centre we established
in Newbury in early 2002 is now a
flagship for our service offering in
networking. Solutions and projects
remain a key part of what we do, and our
efforts to build better relations with key
partners in this area have been rewarded.
In addition to our existing capabilities in
the UK and France, we have now
developed a networking revenue stream
in Holland and Spain. Belgium and Germany
will be added in the first half of the 2002/3
financial year. Security is an essential part
of any network business. We now have a
thriving business in network security
consultancy to 22 of our customers, as
well as delivering the projects and
services derived from our advice.
Data management
Data management is currently the most
geographically restricted business. We
are strong in Germany and France, and it
is clear that many of our customers in
other areas would buy storage solutions
from us. This offering will become
increasingly important for high availability
service solutions. It is a key requirement,
during Phase 3, to expand our ability to
sell and deliver data management
solutions to all our countries.
Maintenance
Maintenance still forms the backbone 
of our business. There is a high level of
recurring business, and it represents an
excellent door opener to high profile
clients. We will continue to invest to
develop maintenance solutions for new
products, particularly for larger machines,
such as the Sun E10000 servers, where
customers require high availability. The
number of customers engaging us to
maintain their entire data centres has
increased significantly. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Continued
Breaking
the mould
of
Synstar
sales
France
France is Synstar’s third largest IT services market in terms of value. We
have traditionally sold all four service lines in this market, but have found it
more difficult to harness cross-selling opportunities within our installed
customer base. However, the culture is changing slowly as the realisation of
total cost of ownership and the value of outsourcing gain acceptance. More
and more of our customers are asking us for managed service offerings
covering our full service range. A large portion of our business is in the public
sector and we have recently seen the thawing of IT budgets frozen over the
past 18 months. Demand for business continuity services has been slow to
grow but is now gaining pace rapidly, recently prompting us to refurbish and
re-launch our Paris Business Recovery Centre.
Gerard Lugat, Sales Manager for France multi-service
Our centres of excellence individually deliver everything they
promise; and together they support our uniquely powerful
integrated business availability offering P AGE 11
Managed services 
Managed services is our fastest growing
service area. Seventeen of our largest 50
customers now buy managed services
from us (up from 13 last year). Our
successes during the year have shown
that there is a considerable market for the
provision of desktop services, help desks
and data centre management. Many of
our relationship managers find our
offerings in this area are a good next step
from maintenance when developing a
customer relationship. We have invested
during the year to bring our VIDA desktop
managed service offering to maturity. We
now have over 100,000 desktop users
under contract across Europe, and a
pipeline many times that figure. The
efficiency improvements produced when
our managed services are blended with
an on-site maintenance operation makes
our proposition cost-effective. We see a
considerable growth in customers looking
to us for a service that is often currently
delivered with fragmented in-house
resources.
Progress with Phase 3
Our services 
Service line development during Phase 2
concentrated on exploiting offerings that
we have been supplying to some
customers for a while. We took those that
represented the best potential, and made
them generally available. During Phase 3,
we have begun to develop entirely new
services, particularly ones that join up our
main areas of service. For example, we
can sell networking and business
continuity in a single packaged offering.
New services of this type will be launched
in the coming months, and help to develop
customer relationships based on several
different services at once. At the same
time these new services can yield a higher
margin than much of our existing
business.
Internal processes
While the effort to expand our service
offering capability is a key element of our
growth strategy, cost control must remain
an imperative. There remains some scope
for further efficiency and cost savings.
Accordingly, we will be running a series
of projects to streamline processes and
systems to achieve these benefits during
the year. This is an important part of
delivering our strategy – keeping the
machine working ever more effectively as
we grow and develop the business.
Staff development
As we develop more complex services,
the picture would not be complete
without developing our staff. Expanding
technical skill is one thing, and this has
been part of our investment for many
years. However if we are serious about
world class performance, then a more
systematic approach to career
development is essential – developing
staff with world class skills and careers.
Chief Executive’s Review
Continued
Rolling out new
services with
stronger
margins
Belgium
Although small, Belgium’s IT services market potential is healthy; at
nearly 12% its forecast compound annual growth rate (CAGR) to 2005 is
among the highest in Western Europe. The presence of the European
Commission in Brussels has created a true multi-national culture that attracts
companies from around the globe. Nonetheless, although in Synstar’s
markets there are a large number of niche service providers, very few are
able to provide anything like our total business availability solutions the value
of which has been amply demonstrated by recent wins at Fortis AG and
Novartis. According to recent research the key business drivers for Belgian
customers are software migration and security: these are both areas of
particular Synstar expertise which will become points of focus as we drive
the business forward, but we have already completed some major platform
migrations for Belgacom Mobile and Tessenderlo Chemie.
Dirk Cammermans, Business Service Manager for Belgium flexibility
Customers can construct whatever strategic
IT support they need from Synstar’s
comprehensive service offering  P AGE 13
Chief Executive’s Review
Continued
To address this important issue, we have
begun a programme to create a new
career planning and development
framework that draws from best practice
in use all around the world. This
framework will be fully in place by March
2003, giving our staff much better
ownership of their own personal
development, and give the company a
sound basis upon which to develop the
skills and experience essential for our
expanding business and services.
Breaking the mould of Synstar sales
performance
By any standards, the second half of
2001/2 was an eventful period for Synstar
sales. We have increased our forward
order book from £230m at 31 March 2002
to £319m. In September we signed our
biggest ever contract, a five-year, £120m
maintenance and managed service
agreement with CSC. We also signed our
first ‘total customer’ – Westland
Helicopters now buys every service line
that we sell, under a £21m, six-year
agreement. We now provide virtually all
its infrastructure support.
For the first time, Synstar has a sales
force with the range of support it needs
to take on leading competitors and win.
At Westland, we were on the shortlist
against IBM and EDS. The customer
stated that we were selected because of
our “proven track record, innovative and
flexible approach to resolving business
issues and expertise for delivering high
value business availability services”. At
Avecia, which also signed a multi-year,
multi-service line contract with us in
September, the customer declared,
“Synstar demonstrated considerable
flexibility in the provision of a
comprehensive range of IT services,
which is key to our requirements. We
were also impressed by its wide breadth
of coverage and ability to provide the
services we require directly rather than
engaging third parties”. This is a major
and very welcome change in perception.
I have believed since I arrived that the
major obstacle to achieving this change
in sales performance was the company’s
own belief in itself. After 30 years as a
maintenance company, the mindset
necessarily takes a while to change, but I
can now see widespread evidence of that
change. It is matched by the start of a
change in our customers’ view of us.
Through a range of introductory service
offerings, we are expanding our
customers’ view of our competences;
demonstrating the full range of our
capabilities; building our presence.
During the second half of 2002, this
began to bear fruit in actual sales. Our
current sales pipeline gives me every
confidence that this will continue.
How do we beat the competition? We can
do this in many ways, each important for
different reasons to each customer. 
innovative
and
flexible
approach
Netherlands
Dutch industry is probably one of the most diversified in Europe, providing the
IT community with both niche and broad-based opportunities. Like its fellow
members of the European Union the Netherlands has seen the number of IT-
related projects fall, a trend that has even extended to hardware
maintenance. This decline has prompted changes in the market’s structure
with consolidation of service providers leaving fewer small-scale niche
operators. Synstar itself has been active in this area, developing a new
partnership with Atos Origin and taking over service activities from Comparex
as a subcontractor. With the larger service providers taking the cream of
outsourcing contracts something of a void has opened up in the middle
ground: Synstar is best placed to fill this with a mix of skills and resources
that caters for single service contracts and complete managed service
arrangements alike, both well demonstrated by our excellent wins at the
Dutch police and PSA (Peugeot/Citroen). 
Frank Hoekstra, Business Service Manager for The Netherlands stability
Debt-free, cash generating and with profits growing
strongly, Synstar is as solid as a rock in a turbulent world We have a culture of service – the long-term
delivery of day-to-day quality. We are
close to the customer – understanding
their needs, on-site when we are needed,
flexible and quick to respond to new
requirements or a crisis. This is in contrast to
many of our competitors who are trying to
do things increasingly remotely. And as we
deliver a higher service level, we are well-
placed to bid for management of critical
systems. These factors, combined with a
growing range of well-matched services,
give us a strong competitive position.
A foundation for growth
There are good reasons for the progress
made since the start of last year. We have
been building the foundation for a strategy
that is now well-placed to turn to growth.
Our business has the potential to benefit
from operational gearing – we seek to grow
the top line at around 7%, keep the gross
margin constant (or better) by selling higher
value services, and keep the overhead
costs under control. Taken together, this
yields the benefits from operational
gearing to produce operating margin
improvement and long-term, sustainable
shareholder value. Benefits to date have
come from better control and focus.
Benefits in the future must depend
ultimately on driving the top line.
Synstar’s sales performance this year
shows that a strategy based upon growth
can be achieved, even in the current
climate. We have the customer
relationships, and we are now developing
the long-term higher value services to
match. Our existing business retains all the
stability. Long-term contracts account for
over 70% of our revenue. Now we can
capitalise upon that position with a strong
growth agenda. It is a plan that draws
sensibly on both strong base business and
good prospects for a growing top line. That
is the best defence in the current market.
Summary
We have continued to make excellent
progress with our recovery plan and new
strategy. Our financial results show this
more clearly than anything else. But in
addition to those results there are many
indicators within the behaviour of the
business which show that we have
achieved a major change of direction – the
development of our services, the success of
cross-selling, the quality of our management
team and our ability to win large contracts
in the face of determined competition.
This is success by any definition.
I have said in my previous reviews that
our long-term aim should be world class
performance. At the half year, I said that I
could, for the first time, see clearly the
way to achieve it. I can now say that we
are demonstrating the evidence that
Synstar is on the way to being a world
class IT service provider.
Steve Vaughan
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review
Continued
P AGE 15
world class
IT service
provider
Spain
Although the Spanish IT services market is only about one-sixth as big as the
UK’s, it’s forecast to grow twice as quickly. Most major IT activity is split
between Madrid and Catalonia, the two provinces with the highest
concentration of large companies and public sector agencies. Spain has
always been a user of traditional services and has tended to shy away from
the larger outsourcing deals. Distributed computing (desktop/Unix) is
growing, and this will in turn generate demand for ancillary services such as
hardware support, applications support and networking: all areas in which
Synstar excels as can be seen in the recent contract renewals of two of our
most important customers in Spain; Renault and the state Social Security
system. Although the requirement for distributed computing is strong, Spain
is also waking up to the need for business continuity services, especially BC
consultancy. Naturally, Synstar is seen as a leading light in this area with
some great success stories to tell and we will continue to develop this
market as we move into the future. 
Antonio Pastors, Business Service Manager for Spain performance
Synstar’s life-signs point to a healthy, dynamic future
