 P AGE 2
John Leighfield CBE
Chairman P AGE 3
am pleased to report that the financial
results for the group have fully
reflected the hopes and plans of last
year. Despite one of the most difficult
marketplaces in recent times, Synstar has
delivered increased profit and generated
cash. Turnover for the period was
£221.9m (2001: £238.2m) and total
operating profit before goodwill and
exceptional items was £8.0m (2001:
£4.6m). Adjusted earnings per share were
3.4p (2001: 1.1p). The group generated
cash before financing during the year of
£8.4m (2001: £1.8m), and has traded with
a positive net cash balance in every
month of the year. These results reflect
the rewards of the difficult decisions and
strong action taken by Steve Vaughan
since he became CEO, and bode well for
the future.
The year has been characterised by
strong and steady improvement in the
health of the Company. Whereas 2001
was a year of major management action,
restructuring and the rollout of a new
strategy, 2002 has seen the rigorous
implementation of that strategy. Focus on
our customers, investment in our
services, development of a strong
management team and the elimination of
remaining problem areas have been the
four points of focus that have produced a
successful overall outcome.
Our customers and our professional and
long-term relationships with them have
always been the Company’s principal
asset. Synstar remains at the top of the
league for customer satisfaction. We now
have the right organisation and strategy
to capitalise upon that positive state of
affairs. Retention of customers is vital and
Synstar has always been good at that. We
are now becoming much more adept at
developing those relationships to sell
further services and expand our role in
the provision of services. This is a real
change in the way the Company deals
with the marketplace.
Our service lines have also developed in
a most encouraging way. Synstar’s stock-
in-trade is to deliver the sort of IT service
that customers will always need. Our staff
excel in keeping critical systems going.
As information technology becomes
more and more crucial to business life, so
the demand for our services expands.
This has remained true even in the
current economic climate. Because of the
nature of our services, we are less
exposed to short-term slowdowns in the
buying of either products or new
projects. This is reflected in our results.
Above all else, this year has seen
considerable development of a
management team with strength in depth.
A combination of new managers and
extensive training and development of
existing managers has produced a
reliable, resourceful and realistic team
who understand the business and how to
take it forward. This is now a major
strength of the organisation and a crucial
factor for the future. A strong board
complements this team, and I would like
to take this opportunity to thank my
colleagues on the Board, who have
continued to provide good, timely advice
and a robust framework for corporate
governance.
Above all, I am particularly proud of our
staff and their continuing commitment to
the quality of service to our customers. 
A service organisation is only as good as
the people it can deploy on the ground.
Excellence takes time to develop, and
once achieved is a valuable asset. 
Our staff display that excellence in what
they do, day after day, and it is the
bedrock of our success.
The plan that we put in place at the start
of 2001 is now delivering impressive
results. It has set the group on an exciting
path, and the marketplace, though
difficult, presents good opportunities for a
business like Synstar. I look forward to
the strong performance that can come
from this situation in the future.
John Leighfield CBE
Chairman
I
Chairman’s Statement
