 Chairman’s Statement
John Leighfield CBE 02
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
The most intractable problem we have faced
recently has been with our operations in
France, where a combination of lack of critical
mass and the inherent inflexibility of the
French business environment has defied all
attempts to bring the operation into profit.
We are therefore pleased to be at an
advanced stage of negotiations for the
disposal of this business.
As we come to the conclusion of the third
phase of the strategy, we need to gear up for
the next phase of the Group’s development.
The Board believes strongly that action is
needed in the face of the inexorable pressure
of reducing margins in our Maintenance
business. Building on the foundations of
what we have already put in place, we
need to invest to accelerate our strategy.
This will allow us to exploit more fully our
competence in winning larger and more highly
differentiated contracts. The winning of the
AWE and Fujitsu contracts are examples of
what we can now achieve. Synstar’s track
record of delivering once the course of action
has been set gives us the confidence to build
the value of the Group in this way through a
fourth phase.
It is our intention to pay our maiden dividend
of 0.5p per share following shareholder
approval at the Annual General Meeting in
March 2004. We believe that this makes a
statement about the quality of the business.
It is set at a level that makes us confident
that the dividend will be sustainable, and will
improve over time.
At the Interims I also said that the Board 
was in the process of recruiting an additional
independent Non-Executive Director. We were
delighted when Jo Connell agreed to join the
Board. Jo was previously Managing Director
of Xansa plc and she brings a wealth of
experience of the type of higher value added
service that will be crucial as we develop
Phase 4 of the strategy. 
John Leighfield 
Chairman
1 December 2003
29 September 2003
Two new contract wins in Spain 
worth 4m Euros
Synstar has won two new public sector
deals in Spain. The contracts are with the
Spanish Traffic Department (DGT) and the
Health Department CAM (Comunidad
Autonoma de Madrid).
19 August 2003
2003
Our year in review
Overall Synstar performed strongly in 2003. We 
have consistently said that our over-riding principle 
is to manage the business for profit and cash. This
remained true in 2003. Year on year operating profit
has risen by 6% from £8.0 million to £8.5 million; net
cash inflow before financing has increased by 17%
from £8.4 million to £9.8 million.
Synstar signs £200m seven-year
contract with Fujitsu Services
Synstar will be providing Fujitsu Services
with a logistics service to support the
Maintenance contracts of Fujitsu’s
operations in the UK and mainland Europe.
The arrangement encompasses the delivery
of computer parts, and the associated
capital purchases, strategic planning, bid
support, warehousing and distribution. 03
Synstar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Synstar achieves Gold Certification
from Cisco Systems
Synstar has achieved Gold Certification from
Cisco Systems, Inc. The Cisco partner
certification program provides Synstar with the
resources to develop an expertise in selling,
implementing and supporting Cisco network
solutions. By achieving Gold Certification
status, Synstar can assure customers it has
obtained the highest Cisco standard for
network expertise and support capabilities.
14 May 2003
Cognotec appoints Synstar for
Managed Services
Synstar has been awarded a Managed
Services contract by Cognotec, the world's
leading provider of automated trading
technology for financial institutions across
the globe. Synstar will manage services for
Cognotec to ensure continuous network
uptime and IT infrastructure availability to
provide the 24/7 service Cognotec delivers 
to its clients.
28 May 2003
Synstar wins new £15m contract 
with AWE
Synstar has signed a new £14.96m, seven-
year contract with the Atomics Weapons
Establishment (AWE). The contract will see
AWE using four out of Synstar’ s five service
lines; Managed Services, Hardware
Maintenance, Data Management and
Networking Services.
3 May 2003
