 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 06
56.7 2010
51.8 2009
552.0 2010
443.3 2009
The Group delivered a 19% improvement in underlying profit 
before tax, and achieved a further substantial reduction in its 
debt over the course of the year. This was a good performance, 
consolidating the substantial increase in profits and debt 
reduction we delivered in 2009.
Overview
Polymers (85% of sales) saw volumes increase by 4%  
for the year whilst increasing its operating profit by 10% to 
£56.7 million. As expected this was characterised by strong 
demand growth in Asia and only modest improvement 
elsewhere. We progressed the expansion of our nitrile facility  
in Malaysia, commencing construction of 15,000 tonnes of new 
capacity which will start production in the first half of 2011. 
The acquisition of PolymerLatex was announced in December 
2010 and is on track to complete by the end of March 2011, and 
will substantially increase the scale of our Polymer business. 
PolymerLatex is a leading global player in latex products, with  
a strong and diversified portfolio of products and well invested 
facilities in Europe and Asia. Its combination with Yule Catto will 
result in a business with increased scale, established market 
positions, improved cash generation capability and a product 
portfolio that will provide a foundation from which the enlarged 
group can grow and compete more effectively in a consolidating 
emulsion polymers market. It will also accelerate our strategy  
of investment in new products and expansion into attractive 
emerging markets.
Pharmaceuticals (10% of sales) saw a decline in profits, of  
£1.1 million, after a slow start to the year. We filed 3 Drug Master 
Files (DMF’s) in the year as we continue to develop our generic 
pipeline. The API manufacturing industry however remains 
challenging with competition from cheaper manufacturing 
economies in Asia continuing to develop. 
We completed most of the restructuring of the Impact Division 
with the sale of four of the five operating units over the course of 
2008. During 2010 the remaining business, William Blythe, further 
improved, delivering operating profits of some £3.5 million. 
The core products of Polymer Division are water-based 
emulsion polymers, formulated around vinyl acetate and acrylic 
dispersions, styrene and nitrile butadiene rubber, as well as 
polyvinyl alcohol/acetate, and a number of smaller specialist 
products. The Division’s manufacturing assets consist of  
22 production units on 14 sites within four geographical regions 
– Europe, South East Asia, Middle East and South Africa, and 
employing approximately 1,300 people. The Division trades 
under the Synthomer and Revertex brand names around the 
world, and its products are utilised in a wide range of industries, 
including coatings, adhesives and construction, where they 
deliver a range of product performance benefits, from 
enhanced waterproofing to scratch resistance. It is also a major 
supplier to the medical industry where its natural rubber and 
synthetic nitrile latex polymers, are used in the manufacture  
of condoms, catheters, surgical and examination gloves where 
it holds a world leading position.
2010 proved to be another successful year for the Division,  
in challenging circumstances with progress again made on a 
number of fronts. In many markets there was positive economic 
recovery, particularly in Asia, however, Europe and the US proved 
more sluggish and remained weaker than had been predicted.  
In most markets volumes developed strongly through the first 
half, although this was followed by more variable performance  
in some European markets in the later part of the year. The 
Division’s full year polymer volumes were up 4%, led by excellent 
performance in nitrile butadiene rubber, alkyd resins and 
specialities which all delivered significant double digit growth.
Raw material supply and pricing, in particular acrylic and 
butadiene monomers, created a number of difficulties which  
the business worked hard to overcome throughout the year.  
All monomer prices showed a resilient upward move during the 
year and this combined with a tight supply environment created 
a number of challenges for the business. However the Division 
was generally able to mitigate these by effective procurement 
strategies enabling production to continue albeit with 
significantly higher input prices. In the light of the rising raw 
material costs and relatively stable demand in Europe, the 
Division’s priority was to ensure a balanced approach to margin 
and volume with a continued focus on value delivery, which  
was broadly successful. The cost strategy employed in 2009 
delivered benefits in 2010 with full year costs down on 2009.
Chief Executive’s report
Total sales (£’m) 
Divisional operating profit* (£’m) 
* Underlying performance
Polymer Chemicals Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 07
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
Innovation interior
More information at:
www.yulecatto.com
Emultex VV67 -Series
Emultex VV67-Series is a new range of polymer dispersions 
introduced in 2010 for use in modern domestic wall and ceiling 
paints. The Emultex VV67-Series uses new monomer 
combinations in the design of binders for highly washable, 
scrub resistant vinyl wall paints. Emultex VV673 in particular can 
be used in a wide range of matt and silk paint finishes and has 
been designed to meet stringent requirements set out by the 
European Community eco-label regulations for indoor paints. 
 
Revacryl 30128 
Revacryl 30128, a new, APEO free, pure acrylic copolymer 
dispersion, was developed to complement our existing flooring 
adhesive range. Produced as an adhesive for laying carpet tiles, 
it offers excellent adhesion to a wide range of backing materials. 
The overall polymer design not only provides a permanently 
tacky film to prevent loose lay carpet tiles from moving, but  
also allows the carpet to be lifted and replaced with ease.
Revacryl 5737 
Revacryl 5737 was developed as a new polymer for the 
formulation of solvent free, low odour, emulsion paints for 
interior decorating. The polymer is used in high quality,  
wash resistant paints. Another innovative product created  
to meet the most stringent demands for environmentally 
friendly, low VOC, interior paints that are becoming  
increasingly important to global markets.
Synthomer 3560 
Synthomer 3560 is a new cross-linked polymer latex for  
woven carpets that meets the latest regulatory and indoor  
air quality requirements. Synthomer 3560 gives a high quality 
carpet backing with good runnability on the coater and a  
high penetration into the woven yarn. The product has excellent 
cut edge strength in the end application, leading to a high 
quality and durable carpet.
Polymers saw volumes 
increase by 4%, whilst 
increasing operating 
profit by 1 0%.
1
2
4
3
3
1
4
2 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 08
We upgraded our latex and lithene research facilities during  
the year, and higher margin new product launches supported 
profitability over the course of the year.
The UK business in particular suffered during the year with 
three unplanned events holding back latex production volumes 
over the course of the year. Butadiene supply issues in the first 
quarter were effectively resolved by sourcing higher cost raw 
materials from Europe, a styrene fire at the Stallingborough 
plant temporarily impacted production in the third quarter and 
the extremely cold weather in December reduced our ability  
to produce and ship.
Synthetic Latex
Polymer Division’s Synthetic Latex dispersions business 
consists of two product families, Styrene Butadiene Rubber 
(SBR) manufactured in Germany and the UK and Nitrile 
Butadiene Rubber (NBR) manufactured in the UK and Malaysia.
Overall SBR latex had a very positive year with a degree of 
recovery in the construction and specialities market, with non 
carpet volumes improving by almost 7% over 2009. Previously 
mentioned issues in Stallingborough did limit progress in the 
carpet market where conditions also remained difficult and 
volumes were down on prior year.
In NBR the business experienced strong demand for gloves, in 
part bolstered by the high cost of natural rubber. Margins were 
held stable in the face of rising monomer costs and strong 
competition. To meet the continued growth in demand for NBR 
the Board approved a new phase of expansion in Malaysia, 
which is expected to start up before the end of H1 2011 and 
add 15,000 tonnes of capacity.
Dispersions
2010 was a disappointing year for Dispersions with low 
customer demand in the European decorative paint market. 
Slightly lower volumes than 2009 were also experienced in 
South Africa and the Middle East however, strong margin 
management allowed these businesses to deliver an improved 
bottom line. Asia, as in most other product groups, developed 
positively during the year with volumes strongly ahead. 
Chief Executive’s report continued
Compounds
The European carpet market remains in a volatile state,  
and while there is evidence that the market is strengthening, 
volumes declined slightly from 2009. While a number of 
customers have reported anticipated improvements this 
is yet to be reflected in visible demand or actual sales.
Specialities
Polyvinyl Alcohol
Alcotex
®
 had another very good year with excellent progress  
in both volume and margin. Demand globally recovered and 
volumes moved ahead strongly, with a particularly strong 
performance in Asia. During the year further investment was 
made in improving plant performance which resulted in several 
record months of production.
 
Liquid Polybutadiene
2010 saw a very strong recovery in Lithene
®
 sales on the back 
of a more buoyant automotive sector. Volumes increased 
strongly and the work on improving product mix has continued 
to deliver benefits. Further investments in the plant during the 
year have delivered more consistent quality and the ability of 
this plant to produce at higher levels of output. 
Alkyds and Polyester
The recovery of industrial markets in South East Asia drove 
demand for Alkyd resins while the lack of new infrastructure 
projects severely retarded Polyester sales. The flexible nature of 
these plants allowed more Alkyd Resin to be produced resulting 
in a double digit volume increase and strong margins, while 
Polyester experienced a decline. In aggregate, the combined 
business delivered a good volume increase, and improved 
profitability.
Natural Rubber
Natural Rubber had a very difficult year with volumes down 6%. 
Heavy rainfall in Southern Thailand and Malaysia resulted in 
lower volumes of field latex and CL60 which resulted in a strong 
and consistently upward move for the natural rubber price. 
These conditions forced many manufacturers to halt production, 
or switch to NBR where they could, resulting in the lowest sales 
volume achieved for a number of years. However, this volume 
deficit was more than compensated by higher pricing and 
increased margin. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 09
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
More information at:
www.yulecatto.com
Innovation infrastructure
Higher margin new 
product launches 
supported profitability 
over the course of  
the year.
Synthomer 902-Series 
Synthomer has developed the 902-Series of SBR latices  
for chemical bonding of polyester nonwoven reinforcement 
materials for roofing applications. Modified bitumen membranes 
for modern and ecological flat or low-slope roofing systems 
require high performance reinforcement materials, such as  
fiber glass, polyester or composite materials. Based on a  
highly cross-linked polymer, these latices provide excellent 
processability as well as the required strength and thermo-
dimensional stability performance in the finished nonwoven 
materials. They contribute to the durability of modern flat roofing 
systems for both industrial and residential construction projects. 
Revacryl 5511 
Revacryl 5511 enables the formulation of coatings with high 
water resistance, excellent crack bridging properties and low 
dirt pick up. A new elastomeric acrylic copolymer dispersion 
has been introduced for flexible, exterior wall coatings. The 
polymer was designed for coatings which are extremely flexible 
under cold conditions, but do not become tacky and attract dirt 
at higher temperatures. Coatings based on Revacryl 5511 can 
be applied to exterior walls with cracks of up to 2mm and 
remain in excellent condition, even after exposure to low 
temperatures.
Synthomer 11003
Synthomer 11003 is based on the latest styrene butadiene  
latex technology. The next generation polymer for ‘liquid  
applied membrane’ products (damp proof membranes) has 
been specifically developed to meet demanding environmental 
and regulatory needs. The main application is protecting 
substrates like plasterboard and wood against water and 
moisture vapour. The liquid membrane is typically applied  
on the wall before tiling, for example, in bathrooms and similar 
wet room constructions. 
Revacryl 5840 
Revacryl 5840 is an environmentally friendly, APEO-free  
and low odour styrene acrylic copolymer for primer 
applications. Revacryl 5840 has been designed to form  
a polymer film sealing the substrate surface and ensuring 
excellent adhesion of the subsequently applied levelling 
compound. High performance primers are required for  
example when applying self levelling flooring compounds,  
in order to ensure good bonding of the compound to the 
substrate. Revacryl 5840 has been designed to be used  
on mineral surfaces as a universal adhesion promoter in 
demanding applications.
1
2
4
3
3
1
4
2
