 Yule Catto & Co plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 
08
2007 was a good year for the Group. 
We made steady progress across all 
of our Divisions in both our operational
performance and strategic plans to
develop the Group for the future. This
showed through in the financial results.
The Polymers business had another
good year, of growth in volumes and
profit. Our strategy in Polymers remains
focused on geographical expansion
around our existing business hubs and
developing market sectors where our
product technology and manufacturing
capabilities give us real competitive
advantage. 
We are investing heavily in additional
Nitrile capacity in Malaysia to take full
advantage of the continued growth in 
this product and the Asian region.
Our Pharma business continued to 
grow the range of generic and ethical
products that it plans to manufacture 
by registering further drug master files in
the year. As we had previously indicated
Pharma earnings declined, in part due to
the phasing of orders in the second half
of the year. We announced plans to exit
our Italian site to improve the operational
cost base and the productivity of the
business. This exit is proceeding to plan. 
Impact Chemicals has had a challenging
year, but has delivered significant
improvement. We are clearly seeing 
the benefits of our strategy to raise 
the performance of these businesses
through restructuring and focusing 
on market segments offering better
margins and growth. 
Overall, underlying Group profit 
before taxation increased some 10% 
to £34.5 million, and earnings per 
share by 18% to 17 .3 pence per share.
The directors recommend a final dividend
of 5.7 pence a share, which would make
the full payment for the year 9.6 pence
(2006 9.3 pence a share), an increase 
of 3.2%. Subject to shareholders’
approval, the dividend will be paid on 
4 July to members on the register at 
close of business on 6 June.
The working conditions and safety 
of our employees everywhere remains
paramount in the operation of our
business. We set targets annually to
reduce levels of Lost Time Accidents, 
and against this measure we have been
improving our safety performance for
many years. I am pleased we have made
further progress in 2007 and have had
our best ever year in terms of both 
“all accident” and “Lost Time Accident”
rates. We remain fully committed to the
principles of sustainable development
and have made significant progress
against all of the 10-year targets in our
sustainable development programme.
This has been a year in which much has
been achieved. On behalf of the directors
and shareholders, I would like to thank 
all our employees everywhere for their
commitment and contribution towards
the company’ s success.
Outlook
The closing months of 2007 and the 
start of 2008 were characterised by
concerns of lower economic growth in
the USA and parts of Western Europe.
We have, however made a satisfactory
start to 2008 with continuing momentum
in our Polymers business. 
Chairman’s Statement
We will continue to expand the geography
and customer base of our principal
Polymers business. New product
development remains an important
element of how we will achieve this. 
In addition we continue to look for
additional ways to improve our
productivity and reduce our cost base.
We have already committed ourselves 
to further investment in Asia for significant
additional Latex capacity and should
benefit from the rapid growth there.
Consequently we expect another year of
good results from our Polymer business.
In our Pharma business we will continue
to develop new generic products for future
filing whilst our previously announced re-
structuring will be complete by the end 
of 2008. The remedial measures taken in
the Impact Chemicals business should
lead to further improvement in its results.
As we enter the year, the raw material
situation for monomers looks set to
remain volatile. We coped well with 
this situation in Polymers in 2007 through
selling price increases and reformulation,
and will continue to manage our response
in a similar manner as 2008 progresses.
Anthony Richmond-Watson
12 March 2008 
We made steady progress across 
all of our divisions in both our
operational performance and
strategic plans to develop the Group.
