 2008                        507.1
2009                  454.5
Total sales (£’m)
2008             42.4
2009                          53.7
Divisional operating profit* (£’m)
* Underlying performance
Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 06
Overview
Polymers (84% of sales) saw volumes 
decline by 8.6% whilst increasing its 
operating proﬁt by 27% to £53.7 million. 
Much of our effort in 2009 was focused 
on cost control, efﬁciency and product 
development. This should stand us 
in good stead for the years ahead as 
global volumes start to recover. Volumes 
reduced over the course of the year after 
a slow start, and whilst full year volumes 
were down, fourth quarter volumes were 
ahead of prior year. Volumes in nitrile 
latex in particular recovered strongly and 
we anticipate a further expansion of our 
Malaysian capacity during the course of 
2010 to meet the rising demand. 
Pharmaceuticals (12% of sales) saw a 
modest increase in proﬁts, with volumes 
affected by the global economic 
environment. We completed the closure 
of the Italian plant and the associated 
product transfers to other sites around 
the middle of 2009. A further six Drug 
Master Files (DMF’s) were ﬁled in the  
year as we continued to develop our 
generic pipeline.
The API manufacturing industry remains 
challenging with competition from 
cheaper manufacturing economies 
in Asia continuing to develop. In light 
of these strategic shifts, and recent 
experience, the Board has written down 
the carrying value of the goodwill in the 
Pharma business in the Group’s balance 
sheet by £30 million. The value of the 
assets of the business including goodwill 
after this writedown at the year end was 
£80 million.
We completed most of the restructuring 
of the Impact Division with the sale of four 
of the ﬁve operating units over the course 
of 2008. During 2009 the remaining 
business, William Blythe, further 
improved, delivering operating proﬁts of 
some £2 million – a good result given the 
business was loss-making in 2007. We 
expect the business to improve further 
during 2010. Whilst we have stated our 
intention to sell the business at some 
time, we fully intend to extract maximum 
value from it for our shareholders.
Polymer Chemicals
The Polymer Division, Yule Catto’s core 
business, develops and manufactures 
products used in a wide range of 
industries and applications including 
coatings, adhesives and construction, 
where they deliver a number of 
performance beneﬁts from enhanced 
waterprooﬁng to scratch resistance.  
It is also a major supplier to the medical 
industry where its natural rubber and 
synthetic nitrile latex polymers are  
used in the manufacture of condoms, 
catheters and surgical and examination 
gloves where it holds a world leading 
position. It manufactures from 13 sites 
within four geographical regions – 
Europe, South East Asia, Middle East 
and South Africa.
Chief Executive’s report
The Group delivered a 27% improvement 
in underlying proﬁt before tax, and 
achieved a substantial reduction in 
its debt over the course of the year. 
This must be seen as an exceptional 
achievement given the global  
recession and ﬁnancial crisis.  07
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
For more information visit:
www.yulecatto.com
The Group is committed to expanding in growth 
markets, leveraging where possible existing 
manufacturing hubs. As such, it has continued 
to invest heavily in its Nitrile facility in Kluang.  
In 2007 another 36ktes was added, followed by a 
further expansion of 36ktes in 2008. The Group 
anticipates further investment in 2010 in both 
Nitrile Latex and Dispersion capacity in Malaysia.  
New specialist laboratory and Pilot Plant facilities 
have also recently been added.
Yule Catto is the world’s largest supplier of nitrile 
latex to the high growth synthetic nitrile gloves 
market, with a global share of around 25%.
The Group has operated successfully out of 
Kluang, Malaysia for many years through its joint 
venture company Revertex (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, 
manufacturing Dispersions, Alkyds, Rubber and 
other chemicals. In 2001 the Group invested in 
Nitrile Latex Polymer manufacturing capacity 
on the Kluang site through a 100% subsidiary, 
Synthomer Sdn Bhd. The ﬁrst of its kind in South 
East Asia, this facility had an initial nameplate 
capacity of 44ktes.  
Geographic expansion  
in Polymer Chemicals Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 08
The core products of Polymer Division are 
water-based emulsion polymers, based 
on vinyl acetate and acrylic dispersions, 
styrene and nitrile butadiene rubber, as 
well as polyvinyl alcohol/acetate, and a 
number of smaller specialist products.
2009 was a year where all business 
units faced unprecedented economic 
challenges in their markets. Volume 
declines in the ﬁrst quarter were in 
the region of 15% compared to prior 
year, however, this recovered to some 
8.6% down for the full year. In such 
uncertain times, cost elimination and 
containment became a key focus 
resulting in the implementation of a 
number of restructuring projects across 
the Division. We reduced full time 
positions in all our operations around 
the world as well as utilising government 
schemes in continental Europe that allow 
for temporary layoffs. In addition, many 
recruitment decisions were deferred and 
as a consequence overall headcount 
declined by 6% in comparison to 2008. 
Polymer Division’s expansion strategy 
slowed in 2009 as the business 
focused on its cost reduction plans, 
however, the search for geographic 
and technological growth opportunities 
continued throughout the year. As part 
of the continued development of our 
leadership position in Floor Coverings 
a joint venture, Synthomer Egypt, was 
established between Synthomer BV and 
the Arab Company for Artiﬁcial Polymers 
and Varnishes (ACAPV) to produce 
latex compounds for the carpet and 
rug industries in Egypt and the Middle 
East. The new plant is anticipated to be 
operational by the end of 2010 and will 
consolidate our leadership position in  
this market.
Synthetic Latex 
Polymer Division’s Synthetic Latex 
dispersions business consists of two 
product families, Styrene Butadiene 
Rubber (SBR) manufactured in Germany 
and the UK and Nitrile Butadiene  
Rubber (NBR) manufactured in the  
UK and Malaysia.
SBR latex is sold to the speciality 
segments of the construction, textile 
and ﬂoor coverings markets. In 
construction, sales held up as major 
customer projects which were started 
continued to completion, however, 
sales in ﬂoor coverings continued to be 
under signiﬁcant pressure as the UK and 
continental European Carpet Market felt 
the full force of the recession. Sales into 
the former segments experienced single 
digit percentage volume declines, while 
ﬂoor covering volumes dropped by a little 
over 10%. 
In the early part of the year, the NBR latex 
market continued to experience customer 
supply chain destocking which began in 
the ﬁnal quarter of 2008. The ﬁrst quarter 
therefore saw a substantial volume 
decline, which was recovered over the 
course of the year. The resurgence of 
the H1N1 virus and concerns over a 
global pandemic, coupled to very low 
stock levels in the customer supply 
chain, raised demand signiﬁcantly in the 
second half, and this continued through 
the year-end. In addition, rising monomer 
prices required several price increases 
during the latter part of the year in order 
to protect margins. During the year the 
new pilot plant was commissioned at 
the Kluang site, and this gave further 
positive momentum to New Product 
Development programmes. Sales of new 
NBR products launched in the last two 
years now account for approximately 
half of all NBR sales. Looking forward 
continued strong growth in this market 
is expected and further capacity 
expansions of Nitrile latex in Kluang are 
currently being planned to meet the rising 
customer demand in the high growth 
synthetic glove market.
Dispersions
The global Coatings and Adhesives 
markets, the major segments served by 
our Dispersions business, experienced 
sluggish demand during the year. The 
European, South African and Middle 
East regions recorded signiﬁcant volume 
declines. However, the Asian operations 
fared better with South East Asia ﬂat 
while Vietnam grew by a resounding 
25%, resulting from solid sales progress 
in the coating sector. Against the 
background of falling volumes, our 
raw material position was favourable 
and helped margins recover in most 
markets and compensated for the 
volume declines, except in the Middle 
East where very aggressive competition 
placed margins under severe pressure. 
In Research and Development the drive 
to improve our low VOC offering to the 
coatings market continued with the 
launch of a number of new products 
which were well received in the market.
Specialities
Polyvinyl Alcohol
The PVC market was a challenging 
environment globally with many 
customers forced to reduce or idle their 
capacity during the ﬁrst half of the year. 
The severe downturn created extremely 
poor trading conditions for the Alcotex 
business, which resulted in a difﬁcult 
but necessary decision to carry out a 
restructuring at the Harlow site. In the 
market, Synthomer continued to maintain 
its leadership position in the supply of 
low hydrolysis polyvinyl alcohol to the 
PVC industry and volumes did improve 
in the second half of the year. In addition 
investments made in plant maintenance 
and process control started to deliver 
beneﬁts. Overall, volumes for the primary 
and secondary Alcotex stabilisers were 
modestly down on 2008, however, 
good control of margins, as well as the 
beneﬁts of strong cost control assisted 
the business to deliver a signiﬁcant 
improvement in full year performance.
 
Chief Executive’s report continued Synthomer has invested heavily in Research and 
Development for its range of nitrile latices for 
the dipped glove market. Signiﬁcant investment 
has been made in its development group which 
is located at Kluang site so as to be close to the 
market and the NBR manufacturing facility. 
This includes additional scientists; new research 
laboratories equipped with modern equipment; 
an applications laboratory designed for technical 
customer support and applications development; 
and a new pilot plant facility tied in to the  
main plant.
This investment has already paid off and today 
around 50% of sales are from products introduced 
within the last two years. One example of such 
successful innovation is the development of 
Synthomer’s self crosslinking technology  
to answer a speciﬁc market need.
Most healthcare professionals are familiar with 
T ype I latex glove allergy, related to proteins in 
natural rubber. However T ype IV allergy, related  
to residual accelerators, is less known but can  
also give a dermatitis reaction. Synthomer has 
pioneered self crosslinking technology for glove 
dipping applications. This allows development  
of gloves which are sulphur and accelerator free.  
They are easier to handle during manufacturing 
and have much reduced risk of allergy.
Chemax 7th sense from Kossan has been 
successfully launched using one of Synthomer’s 
self crosslinking latices, being the ﬁrst accelerator 
free glove approved by the FDA with a low  
dermatitis claim. 
Synthomer’s commitment to innovation and strong 
understanding of current and future customer  
needs has given rise to this pioneering product for 
the glove market.
For more information visit:
www.yulecatto.com
09
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Synthomer’s Pioneering  
Technology – self crosslinking latex
