 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
04
Chairman’s statement
2008 saw further steady progress  
in operational performance and  
the implementation of our strategic 
plans against the backdrop of  
an increasingly challenging  
economic environment.
2008 was another good year for the 
Group given the marked deterioration  
in the global economy over the year and 
what looks set to be the worst recession 
in several decades. 
The Polymers business finished the year 
slightly ahead after a strong first-half start 
to the year. Volumes contracted in the 
second half as the economic downturn 
took hold and, for the year as a whole, 
volumes were slightly lower. 
Our strategy in Polymers remains 
focused on geographical expansion 
around existing business hubs and 
developing market sectors where our 
product technology and manufacturing 
capabilities give us real competitive 
advantage. We believe this strategy has 
served us well in the current environment. 
During the year we completed further 
substantial expansion of our nitrile 
capacity in Malaysia to take advantage  
of the continued rapid growth in the 
synthetic glove market. We also completed 
the acquisition of a small dispersions 
company in Vietnam to support our 
global customers. 
Our Pharma business continued to  
grow the range of generic and ethical 
products it plans to manufacture with the 
registration of six further Drug Master 
Files in line with its annual target. As we 
entered 2008 we anticipated that the 
Pharma business would improve on 
2007, albeit heavily skewed towards the 
second half of the year. As it transpired, 
customer demand and destocking over 
the second half meant that 2008 results 
were lower than 2007 . We have previously 
announced plans to exit our Italian site  
to improve our operational cost base and 
the productivity of the business, and we 
remain on track to do so by the middle  
of 2009, which should benefit the year. 
Our strategy for Impact Chemicals has 
been to manage it for value, which has 
involved restructuring its component 
businesses and improving their 
performance in the short-term with a 
view to divestment at appropriate prices. 
I am pleased that we have now managed 
to sell four of the five Impact businesses 
with the last of these completed shortly 
after the year end. We believe we have 
delivered substantial value to our 
shareholders through this strategy. 
The remaining business in the portfolio 
was restructured early in 2008 and  
it too is now trading profitably.
Overall, underlying Group profit before 
taxation increased by some 5% to 
£32.7 million. The Group’s reported 
taxation charge was substantially lower 
and consequently underlying earnings  
per share rose by 12% to 17.9 pence  
per share.
The strategic actions we have taken 
through the year have been heavily 
focused on de-leveraging the balance 
sheet and we have succeeded in 
lowering net debt substantially. With the 
decline in the economy and the scarcity 
of liquidity from financial institutions, this 
has proved to be well timed. Our aim is 
to reduce the Group’s net debt to below 
£100 million. The Board has reluctantly 
taken the decision to suspend further 
dividends until we achieve this, which is 
expected to be within the next two years. 
This decision, together with our recent 
refinancing, should ensure that we have 
access to sufficient liquidity to see us 
through the current global financial crisis. Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2008 
05
The working conditions and safety 
of our employees everywhere remain 
paramount in the operation of our 
business. We set targets annually to 
reduce levels of Lost Time Accidents, 
and against this measure we have been 
improving our safety performance for 
many years. I am pleased to report 
that we have made further progress 
in 2008 and have had our best ever 
year in terms of both ‘all accident’ and 
‘Lost Time Accident’ rates. We remain 
fully committed to the principles of 
sustainable development and have  
made further progress against all of 
the 10-year targets in our sustainable 
development programme.
After some 30 years on our Board and 
the last eight years as Chairman Anthony 
Richmond-Watson retired at the end of 
January 2009 and I succeeded him as 
Chairman. I would like to express our 
gratitude to Tony for his many years of 
service as a non-executive director and 
his wise counsel and guidance of the 
Group as Chairman through a period 
of much change. On 1 March 2009 
we were pleased to appoint Graham 
Menzies as an additional independent 
non-executive director.
This has been another year in which 
much has been achieved. On behalf  
of the directors and shareholders,  
I would like to thank all our employees 
worldwide for their commitment and 
contribution towards the Company’s 
success.
O u tl o ok
The deterioration in the global economy 
has been far more severe than generally 
anticipated at the beginning of 2008, 
and it has been exacerbated by the 
global financial crisis. Whilst Polymer 
volumes were down 3% in the year they 
declined by some 14% year-on-year 
during the fourth quarter, and demand 
has remained depressed in the early 
part of 2009, as a result both of lower 
demand and of continued de-stocking 
by customers.
This situation creates a very high degree 
of uncertainty as to how the coming  
year will develop, and the Board believes 
it is therefore too early to offer any firm 
guidance on the outturn for 2009.
The Group’s Impact Chemicals and 
Pharma Chemicals businesses should 
benefit from recent restructuring. 
The Pharma sector generally is not 
particularly cyclical and should weather 
the downturn reasonably well.
Within our Polymer Chemicals business 
we anticipate the demand in our Asian 
businesses to be more robust than that 
of our European businesses, due to local 
market conditions and a more resilient 
demand profile from our targeted 
markets. However, overall we anticipate 
our volumes globally could well be  
lower in 2009.
The recent weakness of sterling against 
the dollar, euro and Malaysian ringgit, 
should it continue, will assist the 
reported sterling earnings for a number 
of our businesses.
Overall therefore there are a number 
of positive factors that should support 
the business during 2009. We have 
substantially delivered on our strategic 
goals of two years ago, and are clearly 
focused both on continuing to improve 
the quality and performance of our 
business, and on further strengthening 
our balance sheet. This makes us well 
placed to weather the challenges that  
lie ahead.
Peter Wood
11 March 2009 
