 Business review Yule Catto & Co plc / Annual Report 201 1 10
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Overview
2011 was a pivotal year in the development of the Yule Catto 
Group. The acquisition of PolymerLatex was announced in 
December 2010 and completed at the end of March 2011 when 
we received the relevant clearances. With the sale of our Pharma 
business in November 2011, and the increased scale created by the 
PolymerLatex acquisition, Yule Catto has now become a substantial 
focused specialty Polymer business, with a strong and diversified 
portfolio of products, and well invested facilities in Europe and Asia.
As part of the integration the combined Polymer business has 
adopted the Synthomer brand name, and we now operate all of  
our Polymer operations around the world under this well recognised 
and respected name.
The integration process between PolymerLatex and Synthomer 
started in April following completion of the acquisition. This has  
been an intense process covering all operating regions. In Europe 
this has so far resulted in the closure of the Mouscron site in 
Belgium and the exit from Latex production in Stallingborough in  
the UK. In addition to this manufacturing network rationalisation 
there have been significant changes to the Commercial and 
Technical organisations with the closure of Synthomer’s technical 
service and research laboratories in Frankfurt, Germany and 
Dispersion research laboratories in Harlow, UK. Every effort  
has been made to retain core skills and fill defined vacancies as  
a result of these changes. During the year some 200 people left  
the business as a result of these changes. The resulting savings  
will be mainly seen in 2012.
In Asia the operations of Synthomer in Kluang and PolymerLatex 
in Pasir Gudang have also been brought under one management 
structure. In R&D the implementation of a combined innovation 
process is well underway with the very clear aim of pursuing strong 
market needs, fast speed to market and delivering added value  
to our customers.
The integration process absorbed a lot of management effort in 
2011. Clearly much of the focus was on delivering the synergies 
we committed to on launching the acquisition. However, and just as 
importantly, it has been about building a strengthened management 
team and greater capability throughout the organisation. Overall this 
process has been very successful. In parallel with the integration 
process, we have remained very focused on driving performance, 
where we have seen very good results, with Group pro-forma 
operating profit of £109.7 million, 18% ahead of 2010.
18%
increase in 
operating profits*
* Pro-forma basis. Business review Yule Catto & Co plc / Annual Report 201 1 11
A  Western Europe – 56% 
B  Eastern Europe – 4%
C  North America – 3%
D  Asia – 27%
E  Africa & Middle East – 8%
F  Rest of World – 2%
2011 Sales £1,269m by destination*
When we announced the acquisition of PolymerLatex we anticipated 
at least £20 million of annual synergies. As at the end of December 
2011 the annualised run rate from synergies stood at £15 million. 
We now anticipate that by the end of March 2013 the annual run 
rate of synergies will be £25 million. This should result in a benefit  
to operating profit in 2012 of some £15 million compared to 2011.
The macroeconomic environment deteriorated over the course of 
2011 as the sovereign debt crisis developed. End market demand 
for our products was generally good through the first half of the 
year, with volumes ahead 3%, with European volumes broadly flat 
but strong growth in Asia. The second half however saw significant 
destocking. This arose from a combination of the macroeconomic 
uncertainties and customers delaying orders to take full advantage 
of the benefits of falling input costs. This was most noticeable  
in the fourth quarter, where demand was down by some 13%.  
This was a similar pattern to what we saw in 2009 and, as then, 
margin management generally compensated for the volume 
shortfall, resulting in our strong overall financial performance.
Raw material price volatility in basic monomers created difficulties 
through the year, which the business worked hard to overcome. 
Most monomer prices moved up strongly during the first half of 
the year and this, combined with a tight supply situation created 
a challenging environment for the business. Raw material prices 
fell sharply in the fourth quarter, creating different challenges as 
customers destocked. Throughout this volatile period, the business’ 
priority has remained on ensuring a balanced approach to margin 
and volume with a continued focus on value delivery, which was 
broadly successful.
We manage the business in two segments. ‘Europe & North 
America’ and ‘Asia & Rest of World’. The reported results are  
on an ‘origination basis’, meaning the segmental sales and operating 
profits are reported based on where the product is manufactured. 
We export many specialty products from Europe to Asia. Looking 
at sales on a destination basis, Europe & North America comprises 
63% of Group turnover with Asia & Rest of World accounting  
for 37%.
£109.7m
operating profit*
A  Asia & Rest of World – 28%
B  Europe & USA – 72%
2011 Divisional operating profit 
£118.5m by origination*
A
B
41%
of total sales to 
emerging markets*
* Pro-forma basis.
A
B
C
D
E
F Business review Yule Catto & Co plc / Annual Report 201 1 12
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
continued
Europe & North America (ENA)
OUR FORMULAS 
ARE PART OF  
ALL OUR LIVES
Yule Catto’s formulas in aqueous and specialty polymers are  
used in a diverse range of applications that we see around us.
You will find our products all around you.
Inside the home and buildings you will find them in wall plaster, 
paints (matt, gloss and vinyl), wood stains and varnishes, floor,  
tile and wood adhesives, cushions, table cloths, blinds, foam  
in the sofa, wipes, kitchen gloves, and many many more.
Outside you will see our products in masonry paint, gloss lacquers,  
mortar, plasters, adhesives, insulation panels, waterproof membranes, 
PVC products and as a bitumen modifier.
You will find our products in cars and boats and many  
other places, such as thin walled medical gloves,  
an essential product in modern health and hygiene.  
Even the paper this report is printed on contains  
our Latex.
*  Underlying performance excludes special items as shown  
on the consolidated income statement.
**  Reconciliation of underlying performance to pro-forma results  
provided in the financial review.
777.7
335.8
2011
2010
Underlying – as reported*  
Sales (£’m)
73.1
36.4
2011
2010
Operating profit (£’m)
85.5
77.6
2011
2010
Operating profit (£’m)
913.0
779.9
2011
2010
Underlying – pro-forma**  
Sales (£’m) Business review Yule Catto & Co plc / Annual Report 201 1 13
Pro-forma operating profit in our ENA business was ahead by 10%.
Volumes for the year were down, affected by the destocking activity 
we saw over the second half of 2011. The destocking was broad 
based with volumes down across almost all segments. Our focus 
on margin management and benefits from our innovation pipeline 
ensured that overall profitability still increased substantially.
Alongside the plant closures in Europe we are investing in our 
Stallingborough Dispersions facility to raise the overall capability  
of the site. During the year we made some modest increases  
to our HSSBR capacity by debottlenecking. These changes  
have created a much more capable, robust manufacturing  
network in Europe.
Some £3 million of synergy benefits from cost reductions came 
through in the Group results for the year, and these are almost 
entirely reflected in the ENA segment.
The coming together of PolymerLatex and Yule Catto’s R&D 
activities has created a stronger R&D capability in Europe.  
We now have a broad portfolio of projects primarily focused  
on commercially driven projects to develop technically leading 
products in both key growth segments and traditional business 
segments where our strong market positions can be maintained. 
The development programme has led to new product launches in  
a number of segments during the year including specialty adhesives, 
construction, paper coating and synthetic grass applications.
Products  
Interior
01  D e c o ra ti v e c o a ti n g s
02  C a r p et s a n d  
flooring adhesives
03  W a te r p r o ofi n g m e m b r a n e s 
and sealants
Exterior
04  M a s o nr y p a i n t s
05 Anti-corrosion coatings
Roof
06 Roof tile coatings
07 Insulation systems
Leisure
08 Automotive sealants
09  P o l y e s t e r c o m p o si t e s
01
02
03
06
07
08
05
09
04 Business review Yule Catto & Co plc / Annual Report 201 1 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
continued
Asia & Rest of World (ARW)
 EX PA NSI O N
INTO ASIA
We have been in Asia for over 100 years.  
Leveraging our capabilities there is key  
to the Group’s future growth.
Product 
development 
Our R&D facility is heavily 
focused on Nitrile (NBR) 
Latex, which we supply to  
the medical glove industry –  
a market growing  
at some 15% a year.
339.1
247.0
2011
2010
Underlying – as reported*  
Sales (£’m)
32.1
23.9
2011
2010
Operating profit (£’m)
33.0
25.5
2011
2010
Operating profit (£’m)
355.8
297.8
2011
2010
Underlying – pro-forma**  
Sales (£’m)
*  Underlying performance excludes special items as shown  
on the consolidated income statement.
**  Reconciliation of underlying performance to pro-forma results  
provided in the financial review. Business review Yule Catto & Co plc / Annual Report 201 1 15
Pro-forma operating profit in our ARW segment was ahead by 29%. 
Manufactured volumes in ARW were 9% up at the half year, but 
destocking, particularly in Nitrile, resulted in full year volumes 
showing no growth.
In order to maintain leadership in the fast growing Synthetic Glove 
market a 70,000 tonne nitrile latex expansion to the Pasir Gudang 
plant was sanctioned during the year and is now under construction. 
The new capacity will come on stream in Q4 2012. This expansion 
will also be structured to allow SBR production, and we are aiming 
to build a growing presence in Asia in SBR, leveraging our leading 
technology, over the coming years. This was one of the strategic  
objectives we set ourselves at the time of the PolymerLatex 
acquisition, taking advantage of our greater financial flexibility  
and scale.
Our Dispersions facilities in Asia operated near capacity through 
most of 2011. In October we completed the acquisition of Quality 
Polymer, a Malaysian Dispersions manufacturer owned by one of 
our major customers. 
This has resolved our near-term Dispersion capacity issue in the 
region, whilst improving our market share in Malaysia.
In Asia, the integration of the R&D activities has been focused on 
optimising the combined range of NBR latex to ensure the best and 
most comprehensive of offerings to our customers for glove dipping 
applications and also on improvements in product consistency 
and quality to deliver improved operational efficiencies. In parallel, 
to support the changing needs of the market and drive sustained 
growth in the region, extensive research and applications work is 
ongoing to develop the next generation of latices. This development 
work is focused on improving the strength and feel of gloves, whilst 
maintaining the key barrier and chemical resistance properties  
of the latex.
Adrian Whitfield 
Chief Executive 
14 March 2012
70,000 tonnes  
of capacity
We are constructing another 
70,000 tonnes of NBR latex 
capacity, due for completion  
by the end of 2012. This will  
allow us to both support the  
fast growing nitrile market,  
and sell SBR latex products  
into the region.
State of the  
art production 
facilities
Our latex facility in Pasir  
Gudang is only three years  
old – and will deliver over 
200,000 tonnes of NBR  
and SBR latex emulsion 
when the new expansion  
is complete.
Acquisition
In 2011 we expanded our 
dispersion polymerisation 
capacity with the purchase  
of Quality Polymer from  
one of our major customers  
in the region.
China
Our ability to sell into China  
was enhanced in 201 1 with  
the creation of our new subsidiary 
which will promote our high  
value specialty products into  
the country.
Locations
01
 
Shanghai, China
02
 
Guangzhou, China
03
 
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
04
 
Kluang, Malaysia
05 Pasir Gudang, Malaysia
03
04
05
01
02
