 Overview Yule Catto & Co plc / Annual Report 201 1 9
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Overview
2011 was an exceptional year for Yule Catto. We delivered a very 
strong set of financial results. Just as importantly though, it marked 
the end of a process of transformation for the Group from a small 
diversified chemical business in 2007 through to a much larger 
focused specialty Polymer business in 2011, with a broad product 
offering and exposure to high growth markets.
At the end of March, we completed the acquisition of PolymerLatex, 
effectively doubling the size of our business. Subsequently, in 
November, we concluded the sale of our Pharmaceutical business, 
the last non-core asset we needed to divest to complete  
the transformation process to become a focused specialty  
Polymer business.
Strategy
Our broad strategy remains unchanged. We are focused on 
geographic expansion around existing business hubs, further 
increasing our presence in emerging markets, and in developing 
market sectors where our technology, new product development 
and manufacturing capabilities give us a real competitive advantage. 
Consistent with this strategy we commenced construction of 
70,000 tonnes of new nitrile latex capacity in the year in Malaysia, 
due on line in the fourth quarter of 2012, and completed the 
acquisition of a small dispersion manufacturer there in late 2011.
Performance
We delivered a very strong set of financial results. The Group 
reported underlying profit before tax of £84.8 million, an increase 
of some 100%, and underlying sales were £1,117 million an 
increase of 92% over 2010. Throughout the year the Board has 
reviewed the performance of the business on a pro-forma basis, 
which includes the results of PolymerLatex for 2010 and 2011 in 
full, with an allowance for the finance cost of the acquisition for the 
periods we did not actually own the business. On this basis, and 
excluding the divested Pharma business, the comparisons are more 
representative, and are very strong with sales of £1,269 million,  
up 18%, and underlying profit before tax of £96.0 million, up 25%.
Integration progress
When we announced the acquisition of PolymerLatex we  
committed to deliver hard synergies of at least £20 million from  
the combination of both polymer businesses. I am pleased to say 
that, at the end of 2011, only nine months after the acquisition,  
we had already established a synergy run rate (annualised rate  
of delivery) of £15 million. The Board now anticipates we will  
achieve an annual run rate of £25 million by March 2013.
Balance sheet
The acquisition of PolymerLatex was structured so as to ensure  
that the enlarged Group had a solid balance sheet, with an 
estimated ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA at the date of 
acquisition of just below 2.0. The strong performance during the 
year, and the divestment of the Pharma business, have resulted in 
net borrowings reducing substantially from the position at the date  
of acquisition, and our closing net borrowings was £164.3 million. 
This represents a pro-forma underlying net borrowings to EBITDA  
of 1.2, which the Board considers to be a prudent leverage position. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.3p per share, 
making a total dividend per share for the full year of 3.5p.  
This represents growth of 35% on the adjusted full year dividend  
per share for 2010. Looking ahead, the Board expects to increase 
the dividend ahead of earnings growth in accordance with the 
Board’s stated intention of pursuing a progressive dividend policy.
Safety, health and environment
The Group is absolutely committed to the continuous improvement 
of its performance in respect of safety, health and the environment.  
I am pleased that most of the metrics that we measure in this  
area showed good improvement over the course of the year. 
People
The Group’s employees, including those who have left as part  
of the restructuring, have worked extremely hard this year to deliver  
the transformation of the Group, and the Board thanks them  
for all their efforts.
Board composition
At the forthcoming AGM, I shall not be seeking re election  
as Chairman. After eleven years as a Director, the last three  
being as Chairman, and after the transformational year of 2011,  
I feel this is the right time for a change. Dr A A Dobbie has  
also indicated he will not be seeking re-election. He has been  
a director for five years and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee for the last three. We thank him for his valuable 
contribution and wish him well in the future.
In January 2012, Dominique Fournier joined the Board as  
a non-executive director. Dominique subsequently became  
potentially conflicted and he decided to step down from the  
Board on 13 March 2012.
The appointment of three new non-executive directors is well 
advanced and we expect to make further announcements shortly.
During 2011, we brought Neil Johnson onto the Board as our  
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and I am very  
pleased he has agreed to succeed me as Chairman.
Current trading and outlook
Looking forward, we continue to anticipate several years of  
low growth in western economies with global growth generally 
driven by emerging markets, where we have a significant and 
increasing presence.
Whilst the general economic environment requires a degree  
of caution, I am pleased that the business has made a solid  
start to the year. Earnings will benefit from the synergies from  
the PolymerLatex acquisition coming through over the course  
of 2012, and the Board remains confident about the prospects  
for the Group in 2012 and beyond.
Peter Wood 
Chairman 
14 March 2012
