 Introduction Business review Governance Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements
Other information
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009 04
Chairman’s statement
2009 was an extremely good year for 
Yule Catto, with operating proﬁt in 
all three Divisions ahead of the prior 
year, despite the environment with 
a strong increase in Group pre-tax 
proﬁt and a substantial reduction  
in net debt, considerably ahead  
of schedule.
Underlying Group proﬁt before tax 
increased by 27% to £41.5 million, and 
earnings rose by 19% to 21.3 pence  
per share.
We entered 2009 with concerns about 
how the year would develop given the 
substantial global economic contraction 
in late 2008 and the ongoing ﬁnancial 
crisis. However, we took decisive action 
on costs which helped underpin a 
resilient underlying performance across 
the Group. We also beneﬁted from the 
recent work done both to restructure the 
balance sheet and to improve the proﬁle 
of the Group’s business portfolio. The 
geographic balance of the Group has 
changed markedly in recent years with 
44% of Group revenues now generated 
in Asia and other high growth developing 
economies, and this is standing us in 
very good stead.
Our core business of Polymers 
accounted for 84% of Group revenue  
in 2009 and 88% of divisional operating 
proﬁts. Volumes were inevitably down 
on 2008 as a result of the global 
economic slowdown. However, margin 
management and tight cost control, 
together with the beneﬁt of the weaker 
pound, resulted in a strong performance 
throughout the year. 
Our strategy in Polymers remains 
focused on geographical expansion 
around existing business hubs, further 
increasing our presence in emerging 
markets, particularly in Asia, and in 
developing market sectors where our 
technology, new product development 
and manufacturing capabilities give us 
real competitive advantage. With the 
global contraction in the chemicals 
sector in 2009, our focus was on cost 
control, process efﬁciency and product 
development. However, as we move 
forward we expect to invest in further 
manufacturing capacity in Asia during 
2010 in order to meet the rising demand.
Our Pharma business now represents 
just 12% of Group revenue, and 9% 
of divisional operating proﬁt. It was 
not immune from the global economic 
problems in 2009 and volumes were 
adversely affected. However, it continued 
to grow its range of products with the 
registration of six further Drug Master 
Files in the year. During the year we 
concluded the exit of our Italian site as 
planned and the movement of product 
manufacture to other sites in Mexico and 
Spain, which should create further beneﬁt 
to the business during 2010.  
The strategy of restructuring and 
divesting our Impact portfolio was largely 
completed during 2008 with the sale 
of four of our ﬁve Impact businesses. 
During 2009 proﬁtability in the remaining 
business, William Blythe, improved and 
we expect it will continue to show further 
improvement over the course of 2010. 
As we entered 2009, the Board made  
the decision to suspend the dividend 
whilst the Group completed its balance 
sheet restructuring, and set a target  
to reduce net debt below £100 million 
within 24 months. I am delighted that  
we have already comfortably exceeded 
this target, some 12 months ahead  
of schedule, with net debt now at  
£88 million. As a result, we are in a 
position to recommence interim and  
ﬁnal dividend payments in 2010. Whilst 
the dividend suspension was made 
reluctantly it has proved to be the right 
decision and we are now a much  
stronger Group ﬁnancially.  
Whilst the Board will not conclude on the 
ﬁnal level of the dividend payout in 2010 
until the year is complete, it has already 
determined that the total dividend for the 
year will be not less than 5 pence per 
ordinary share. 05
Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction Business review Governance
Group ﬁnancial 
statements
Company ﬁnancial 
statements Other information
Polymer Chemicals – 87.7% 
Pharma Chemicals – 9.1% 
Impact Chemicals – 3.2% 
As a further measure to improve the 
ﬁnancial strength of the Group, we took 
the decision to close the UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension scheme to further 
accrual. Most active members left the 
scheme at the end of 2009, and the 
scheme will be fully closed by September 
2010, after which time no new liabilities 
will accrue to the scheme.
The Group is absolutely committed 
to the continuous improvement of its 
performance in respect of Safety, Health 
and the Environment. The Group again 
showed further annual improvement 
across a range of performance measures 
in this area, and has substantially 
bettered the ten year targets it published 
and has reported against since 2000. 
I would like to thank all of our employees 
for their support during what has 
been a challenging year. Without their 
contribution, support and understanding 
of some of the difﬁcult decisions that 
were taken during the year, the company 
could not have delivered such substantial 
improvements in performance.
During the year we slimmed down  
the Board, which now comprises 
two executive and six non-executive 
members. Richard Hunting and Dato’ 
Seri Lee Oi Hian stepped down as 
non-executive Directors at the last AGM  
and I would like to thank them for their 
support and contribution during their 
long service to the Group.
Looking forward, we expect western 
economies to grow slowly for several 
years with global growth generally driven 
from emerging markets. Our business 
model is well adapted to this scenario, 
with approaching half of our Group 
revenues generated in Asia and other 
high growth developing economies, 
and with our European business now 
better focused and more efﬁcient. We 
have robust positions within our chosen 
market sectors, a healthy new product 
pipeline, and a signiﬁcantly strengthened 
balance sheet. Against this background 
2010 has made a solid start and we are 
conﬁdent about the prospects for the 
Group in the years ahead.
 
Peter Wood
10 March 2010 
Total sales by destination % 
as derived from note 4 to ﬁnancial  
statements on page 45
Divisional operating proﬁt % 
as derived from note 4 to ﬁnancial  
statements on page 43
UK – 13.2% 
Other Europe – 36.5% 
Asia – 29.5% 
Rest of the World – 20.8%
