 Yule Catto & Co plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 
09
Overview
2007 has been a year in which the Group
has moved forward on a number of fronts
to develop the business. The result of this
process is clearly demonstrated by the
10% increase in underlying Group profit
before taxation. It has also been another
year in which the recent history of rising
raw material prices has persisted and 
we have had to work hard to mitigate the
impact of this. Against this background,
we have made good progress across 
the portfolio, and, although the global
economy looks challenging, we are
cautiously optimistic about the Group’ s
performance in 2008.
Polymers (73% of total sales) grew 
sales volumes by 4.3% and underlying
operating profit by 6.2%. This was
achieved in an environment of volatile 
and generally increasing monomer
pricing, and ongoing supply constraints.
We sustained our operating margins 
year on year at 9.7%.
The previously announced expansion 
of Nitrile capacity in Kluang, Malaysia 
was brought on line in November, and
immediately sold out. The Group has
committed itself to significant further
expansion during 2008. This site is well
located to provide reliable supply to major
glove manufacturers. Market growth for
synthetic gloves remains strong and this
investment confirms our intent to remain
as a leading supplier.
We also completed the expansion of our
Mouscron, Belgium dispersion facility,
where capacity increased by 30%.
Pharmaceuticals (11% of total sales) 
saw sales little changed at £63.8 million.
However second half year sales were
substantially lower than the first half due
to order phasing which in part resulted 
in reduced underlying profitability of 
£7 .4 million. The generic drug market
continues to grow strongly but, as
always, is characterised by price erosion
following patent expiry. Our strategy to
address this is to maximise operating
efficiencies whilst expanding our product
portfolio. During the year, we announced
the closure of our Italian site and the
transfer of production to Mexico and
Spain to improve the cost base and
productivity of the business. Looking
forward, our programme of increasing
our generic drugs pipeline made good
progress with a further six drug master
files registered.
Impact Chemicals (16% of total sales)
has suffered over several years from
aggressive competition and sub-optimal
assets. During 2007 we announced the
closure of two facilities within this business;
the Hull plant of Holliday Pigments and
the German plant of James Robinson.
Both plant closures are running to
schedule. In early 2008 we announced 
a restructuring of the William Blythe plant
in Church. We have already seen some 
of the benefit of these actions with an
increase in underlying profits in 2007 to
£3.0 million from £1.0 million in 2006.
Good cash management remains 
a key priority for the Group. Borrowings
increased modestly, but this was
attributable to the impact of the
strengthening euro on our euro
denominated debt. During the year 
we have focused hard on the effective
management of working capital with
average working capital reducing by 
£6.6 million compared with prior year,
whilst capital expenditure was at similar
levels to 2006. We invested around 
£9.0 million in restructuring, the majority
of which we will recover, when we sell 
the sites and assets we are exiting. 
Polymer Chemicals
We operate 13 factories within four
geographical regions: Europe, Pacific
Rim, Middle East and South Africa. Core
products are water-based Polymers,
both dispersions and latices, polyvinyl
alcohol/acetate and a number of more
specialised products.
2007 was another good year for our
Polymer businesses. Sales volumes 
were at record levels, up 4.3%, with 
sales turnover up 6.7%. Operating profits
were up 6.2% compared to 2006 and
operating margins were sustained at
9.7%. These good results were achieved
against a background of restricted
monomer availability, volatile prices 
and restructuring within some of our 
core markets.
Although the global economy 
looks challenging, we are cautiously
optimistic about the Group’s
performance in 2008.
Business review
Chief Executive’s report Yule Catto & Co plc 
Annual report and accounts 2007 
10
Business review
Chief Executive’s report continued
Whilst the product portfolio and the
geographic coverage of our operations
remained unchanged, the main growth 
of our activities occurred in Asia. In
Kluang, Malaysia, in order to meet the
growing sales demand, we were able to
bring forward our latex expansion plans 
in two phases with a 33% increase in
capacity in April and a further expansion
in November, effectively increasing 
the installed capacity by circa 60%
compared to 2006. Concurrently, the
Mouscron, Belgium dispersion plant 
was subject to a major de-bottlenecking
project which was completed in late 
2007 increasing the dispersion capacity
of the site by 30%. In addition, minor 
de-bottlenecking took place on the latex
plant in Langelsheim, Germany. In the
USA we initiated dispersion manufacture
under a toll manufacturing arrangement
with a local polymeriser.
These enhancements in capacity 
are already being effectively used and
further production capacity expansion 
is planned for 2008. Nevertheless,
maintaining the excellent growth seen
over the past few years was a difficult
challenge in 2007 . Polymer producers
generally had to endure repeated
interruptions in raw material supplies 
and increases in all major monomer
costs. The industry was characterised 
by feedstock shortages, which in turn
affected the supply lines of all our top 
ten raw materials. Many of our suppliers
called force majeure as they either were
unable to get the necessary feedstock
volumes or they experienced significant
plant outages. This situation was not
helped by the cost of oil, the backbone 
of the feedstock supply, which increased
69% during the year. 
As a result we worked hard to reflect
these costs in the market place.
However, we hope that the additional
global capacity for a number of
monomers planned for commissioning 
in the fourth quarter of 2008 and
throughout 2009 will alleviate the tight
raw material supply and allow input
prices to ease in due course.
For Polymer Division this restricted
monomer supply and volatile raw 
material pricing together with continued
restructuring of some of our core markets
encouraged us to advance our product
development programmes to stimulate
demand. In 2007 we widened our nitrile
latex, dispersions and polybutadiene
product portfolios, whilst at the same
time developing complementary products
to sell alongside our core latex, dispersion
and polyvinyl alcohol activities.
Synthetic Latex
Throughout 2007 the European latex
market was subject to further customer
rationalisation, particularly in the large
commodity markets such as paper. 
Our business, whilst experiencing some
disturbance from this restructuring,
remains speciality orientated. We were
able to increase sales despite a number
of our main markets not growing as
customers sought to manufacture in
other parts of the world. The market for
our synthetic nitrile latex grew significantly
as a result of the greater use of synthetic
rubber gloves in the health and semi-
medical markets, and we were able 
to benefit from this through the newly
commissioned capacity at our Kluang
factory in Malaysia. 
Expanding our operations in Asia remains
a key part of Polymer Division’ s strategy
and in 2008 we expect the momentum 
to continue with increases in both latex
and dispersion capacity planned.
Dispersions
The dispersion market unfortunately
experienced the worst of the raw material
volatility. However, with the advantage 
of dispersion production in all our 
regional activities, combined with good
technical support and continued product
development, we were able to maintain
supply and service to all our customers.
As a result, we gained market share and
are able to report record dispersion
volumes whilst retaining our market
leadership in the UK, South Africa, 
the Middle East and Malaysia.
Specialities
The Group manufactures a variety of
speciality polymer chemicals, including:
Polyvinyl Alcohol
T o maintain our status as the world’ s
leading supplier of low hydrolysis
polyvinyl alcohol to the PVC industry, 
we have changed the profile of our
technical package to meet the ongoing
demand of the PVC resins industry. In so
doing we have added new products to
the range specifically designed for the
technological and geographic changes
which have occurred in the manner and
location in which PVC is produced. As a
result, the Polymer Division is now not
only able to supply its well established
primary and secondary PVC stabilisers,
but has added newly developed grades
alongside supplementary polymers 
used in the polymerisation of PVC.
Increase in divisional operating profit
* Underlying performance
6.2%
Sales
2006
2007
£399.1m 
£425.2m 
Divisional operating profit*
2006
2007
£38.8m 
£41.2m 
