 Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 04
Performance
2010 was a very good year for Yule Catto, building on the 
strong improvement in Group performance delivered in 2009.
Underlying Group profit before tax increased by 19%  
to £47.0 million, and earnings rose by 22% to 16.2 pence  
per share. Net debt reduced further by £25 million to only  
£63 million. In the last three years we have lowered our net  
debt by £107 million, whilst improving earnings per share by 
62%, despite the deep recession of 2009. 
The Group’s core business of Polymers accounted for 85%  
of Group revenue in 2010 and 88% of divisional operating 
profits. Volumes were ahead in most areas of the business  
and operating profit increased by 10%, a good result after  
the strong improvement of 27% we achieved in 2009. 
Our strategy in Polymers remains focused on geographical 
expansion around existing business hubs, further increasing  
our presence in emerging markets, particularly in Asia, and in 
developing market sectors where our technology, new product 
development and manufacturing capabilities give us a real 
competitive advantage. We started construction of 15,000 tonnes 
of new nitrile capacity during the year, and we expect production 
from this expansion to commence in the first half of 2011.
The Pharma business now represents just 10% of Group 
revenue, and 7% of divisional operating profit. The business 
started slowly, with a weak first quarter, but performance 
improved during the year. Full year operating profit was  
£1.1 million below prior year. 
Our one remaining Impact business, William Blythe, continued 
to improve generating £3.5 million of operating profit and we 
expect it will continue to show further improvement over the 
course of 2011. 
Total sales by destination % 
as derived from note 4 to financial statements on page 48
UK – 11.8% 
Other Europe – 34.1% 
Asia – 33.8% 
Rest of the World – 20.3%
Divisional operating profit % 
as derived from note 4 to financial statements on page 46
Polymer Chemicals – 87.7% 
Pharma Chemicals – 6.9% 
Impact Chemicals – 5.4%
Chairman’s statement Yule Catto & Co plc
Annual report and accounts 2010 05
 2010 was a very good  
year for Yule Catto, 
building on the strong 
improvement in Group 
performance delivered 
in 2009.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information
I would like to thank all of our employees, whose continuing 
support and contribution has made 2010 such a successful 
year for the Group.
Outlook
Looking forward, we will be reporting results for the enlarged 
Group. In our core markets, we continue to anticipate several 
years of low growth in Western markets with global growth 
generally driven by emerging markets. Following the acquisition 
of PolymerLatex, we will have a stronger business in Europe 
and we will remain well placed to access the attractive 
opportunities in Asia and other emerging economies with over  
a third of our combined Polymers business in these markets. 
We continue to anticipate significant operational synergies from 
the acquisition and we expect the combined business will enjoy 
additional market development opportunities.
Raw material prices have risen strongly over recent months, 
exacerbated by the situation in the Middle East. Both Yule Catto 
and PolymerLatex have been successful in passing through 
price increases in recent years, and we intend to continue to 
remain focused on this in the enlarged Group.
Both Yule Catto and PolymerLatex have made a solid start  
to the year, and we are confident about the prospects for the 
enlarged Group in the years ahead.
 
Peter Wood
Chairman
9 March 2011
PolymerLatex Acquisition
The highlight of the year was the acquisition of PolymerLatex  
for a consideration of £376 million which we announced in 
December 2010. This is a transformational transaction for the 
Group, substantially increasing the scale and opportunities of 
our core Polymer business. We anticipate eventual annual cost 
synergies of £20 million from the integration of the business. 
The Group’s balance sheet has also been strengthened  
with the significant amount of equity and debt raised for the 
acquisition, and my thanks go to our shareholders for their 
support in this important transaction. We expect to complete 
the transaction at the end of March. 
Dividend
The Group returned to paying dividends at the half year, with  
an interim payment of 2 pence per share, with a commitment  
to pay at least 5 pence in total for the full year. The remaining  
3 pence per share would equate to £4.4 million on the original 
number of shares in issue prior to the acquisition of PolymerLatex. 
At the time of the PolymerLatex announcement, the Group 
undertook to honour the cash commitment, and the final 
recommended dividend is therefore a cash dividend of  
£4.4 million, which, on the enlarged number of shares,  
equates to 1.3 pence per share. 
Safety, Health and Environment
The Group is absolutely committed to the continuous 
improvement of its performance in respect of Safety, Health  
and the Environment. 2010 marked the end of Yule Catto’s first 
period of commitment to the Chemical Industries Sustainable 
Development goals. I am delighted to report over the ten years 
of this commitment our performance has sharply improved,  
and the decade ended with all of our sustainability targets 
significantly bettered.
