 07 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012
Overview
Overview
In a challenging environment, Synthomer delivered a resilient set of results 
in 2012, achieving a second successive year of record proﬁt before tax. 
This was achieved despite poor economic conditions in Europe, weakening 
of the euro against sterling and challenging trading conditions for our Asian 
nitrile latex business, where additional capacity and competitive behaviour 
impacted our performance.
2012 was the ﬁrst full year of trading since the transformational acquisition 
of PolymerLatex in March 201 1 and the completion of our divestiture 
programme. The Group beneﬁted from increased scale, an enhanced 
product portfolio, stronger market positions and greater efﬁciencies 
delivered from the PolymerLatex integration. To reﬂect the Group’s 
subsequent transformation into a focused specialty chemical company, 
we changed the Group’s name to Synthomer plc towards the end of 
the year. We trade under the Synthomer brand around the world and 
the name is widely recognised and respected by our customers. 
Full year performance 
During the year, Group sales declined by 12% to £1,111.8 million 
(201 1 pro-forma £1,268.8 million). Volumes were 5% lower than 
the previous year, as a result of weaker European demand. 
Operating proﬁts were broadly ﬂat at £109.0 million (201 1 pro-forma 
£109.7 million). The beneﬁt of synergies and margin management offset the 
adverse impact of the poor economic conditions in Europe, the weakness 
in the euro and the challenging trading conditions in our nitrile latex business.
Group proﬁt before tax was £98. 1 million (201 1 pro-forma £96.0 million). 
Despite the economic difﬁculties of recent years, this is the 6th consecutive 
year that we have increased underlying Group proﬁt before tax.
Earnings per share were 22.0p (201 1 underlying 18.8p), an increase of 
17%, with the beneﬁt of the ﬁrst whole year’s trading since the PolymerLatex 
acquisition in March 201 1.
Strategy
We continue to focus on being a leading producer of aqueous polymers. 
Our strategy is to deliver growth through geographic expansion in emerging 
markets, where mega-trends including population growth, urbanisation 
and increasing wealth are driving demand for our products across the 
region. In these high-growth regions, we are able to beneﬁt from the 
leading technologies, R&D and manufacturing capabilities which we have 
developed in European markets to give us a strong competitive advantage 
in new geographies.
Our European business remains highly cash generative, allowing us to 
invest in emerging market opportunities. Our new 70,000 tonne nitrile latex 
capacity expansion in Pasir Gudang, Malaysia, which was completed at 
the end of the year and was commissioned during January 2013 represents 
one such opportunity. We anticipate having SBR latex manufacturing 
capability in Malaysia from the middle of this year, something we have 
been targeting for several years. We continue to look for further investment 
opportunities to expand our footprint in Asia.
Integration process and synergies
The integration of PolymerLatex is now essentially complete. Synergies 
delivered in the year were £19 million, a year-on-year improvement of 
£16 million over the £3 million delivered in 201 1. At the beginning of 
2012 we committed to a higher synergy target of £25 million, and we 
remain conﬁdent of delivering the balance of the synergies in 2013. 
Balance sheet
Net debt was slightly lower than the start of the year at £156 million. 
This represents a net borrowing to EBITDA ratio of 1.2, which the Board 
considers to be a prudent leverage position. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a ﬁnal dividend of 3.3p per share, making 
a total dividend for the year of 5.5p. The Board committed to this level of 
dividend in our interim results announcement on 28 August 2012, together 
with an undertaking to move the dividend cover to three times by 2015. 
The full year dividend of 5.5p represents an increase of 57% over the 
previous year.
Safety, health and environment
The Group is absolutely committed to the continuous improvement of its 
performance in respect of safety, health and the environment. I am pleased 
that almost all of the metrics that we measure in this area showed good 
improvement over the prior year.
People
The Group has achieved a great deal in recent years with its transformation 
to a focused specialty polymers business. None of this could have been 
achieved without the hard work and dedication of the Group’s employees 
and I thank all of them for their support and hard work during this period.
Board composition
We have strengthened the Board this year with a number of appointments. 
Just Jansz and Jinya Chen respectively bring extensive knowledge of 
the Chemical Sector and Asian markets and operations. Ishbel Macpherson 
who joined the Board in May 2012 has indicated that, in order to focus in 
other areas, she does not intend to stand for re-election and I should like 
to thank Ishbel for her contribution during her time with us.
Current trading and outlook
We have made a solid start to the year. Nevertheless, we expect the 
macro-economic environment in Europe to continue to result in challenging 
trading conditions through 2013. Our expectations for the Asian nitrile 
market remain unchanged, with improvements expected from the end of 
this year. With our non-nitrile capacity in Asia fully utilised, we will continue to 
invest in capacity in emerging markets to build our platform for future growth 
beyond 2013. We expect demand growth in our emerging markets to 
remain strong and overall the Board remains conﬁdent in the Group’s 
long-term prospects and strategy.
Neil Johnson
Chairman
14 March 2013
Chairman’s statement 08 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 08 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012
Innovation – Lithene
®
ultra
During the year, the Group made a substantial 
investment to improve the performance of its 
Lithene
®
 products for our customers. Lithene
® 
liquid polybutadienes are produced at Synthomer’s 
Stallingborough, UK plant. Lithenes are sold 
globally for use in a diverse range of applications, 
including automotive sealants, mould release 
products, coating additives, rubber modiﬁers, 
electrical encapsulants and fragrance gels. 
Lithene
®
 products are part of the Group’s 
Performance Polymers business segment. 
The new improved products are being sold under 
the Lithene
®
ultra brand. Product characteristics 
of the new range of products include low VOC 
content, low odour and in certain application 
areas the new range can deliver performance 
improvements such as improved curing and 
higher strength.
Automotive sealants
Economy, safety and reﬁnement are key 
drivers in automotive design. Lithene
®
ultra 
products provide an unseen contribution 
to all of these when formulated into 
high performance sound deadening 
and structural sealants. Their unique 
polymer structures form the basis of 
custom formulations able to exceed 
demanding global automotive standards, 
while reducing vehicle weight and 
lowering cabin air emissions.
Rubber modiﬁcation
Synthetic rubbers are an important 
component in many cables for demanding 
applications such as power transmission 
and oil well control systems. Lithene
®
ultra 
polybutadienes are designed to work 
in these specialised rubbers to enhance 
physical properties, ensuring performance 
and durability in increasingly harsh 
operating environments.
Printing plates
Lithene
®
 products are a major 
component in many Flexographic 
printing plates contributing to print 
quality and plate durability. With the 
constant growth in Flexographic printing 
applications from labels to high quality 
ﬂexible packaging across all ink 
technologies, the wide range of 
Lithene
®
ultra products provides global 
printing plate manufacturers the ﬂexibility 
to design advanced plate solutions.
Lithene Lithene
® ®
 plant, Stallingborough (UK) plant, Stallingborough (UK)
