 09 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012
Overview
2012 was the ﬁrst full year of trading since the PolymerLatex acquisition 
in 201 1. The Group is now a larger, more focused specialty chemical 
company, with the scale and capability to grow in chosen markets. 
We are now focused on being one of the world’s leading aqueous polymer 
producers, with our market leading positions in Europe and expanding 
business in Asia enabling us to add value to our customers and generate 
returns for our stakeholders. 
During the year we largely completed the integration work associated with 
the acquisition of PolymerLatex. Synergies from that integration reached 
approximately £19 million in the year, a £16 million year-on-year increase. 
A further £6 million of annualised synergies are anticipated in 2013 to reach 
a total of £25 million.
Two years into the integration, the broader business beneﬁts are very clear. 
We now have a stronger management team and enhanced capability 
in the areas of product development and process know-how, combined 
with a more modern and cost effective asset base and state-of-the-art 
R&D facilities.
Business performance 
2012 was a very challenging year from a trading perspective. Demand in 
Europe was weak on the back of the eurozone crisis, and we saw volume 
reductions of 8% in our Europe & North America (ENA) segment. However, 
we compensated for the volume declines through higher unit margins, 
which we continue to manage actively to optimise proﬁtability. The weaker 
euro also affected the translation of European results into sterling with an 
adverse effect of £5.5 million on operating proﬁt. Synergy delivery was 
predominantly in Europe, and overall therefore, operating proﬁt in our 
ENA segment was strongly ahead of 201 1. 
In Asia and Rest of World (ARW), our non-nitrile businesses delivered very 
good growth with EBIT up 20%. In nitrile, excess capacity and consequent 
aggressive pricing behaviour by regional competitors served to substantially 
lower results. In our interim results we stated our expectations that we 
do not expect any substantive improvement in these conditions for 
12- 18 months. Since then the market has stabilised, and is performing 
broadly in line with our expectations at the interim results, and we continue 
to expect improvements towards the end of 2013. 
Looking further ahead, we, and our customers, continue to expect to see 
demand growth of 10- 15% over the coming years for nitrile latex. With our 
leading share of approximately one third of the market, and our position as 
the only current local supplier, we continue to anticipate substantial future 
proﬁts from this business as the environment improves.
We continued to invest in our business during the year, with net capital 
expenditure in the year of £38. 1 million, up from £21.9 million in 201 1. 
Alongside the capital invested to facilitate site closures as part of the 
synergy delivery, we have been investing heavily to support the future 
organic growth of the business. We completed a substantial expansion 
of our nitrile facility in Pasir Gudang, Malaysia and ongoing investment 
in the same facility will enable us to produce SBR to sell into the region – 
an objective we have been pursuing for several years and which will 
provide us with enhanced operational ﬂexibility. In Europe we have invested 
in our Lithene
®
 business to improve our product offering and to launch 
our new Lithene
®
ultra range of products. We also recently commenced 
an investment to support growth in our specialty Alcotex business – 
a business where we are global No. 1, and product manufactured in 
the UK is shipped to PVC manufacturers around the world.
We have had a number of successful product launches during the year, 
and we remain very focused on tailoring and deploying our existing 
western technology to support growth in emerging markets – particularly 
in the areas of Construction & Coatings and Functional Polymers.
Raw materials, as in recent years, remained volatile. Prices strengthened 
through the ﬁrst few months of the year, before easing back and were 
relatively stable over the last quarter. This pattern was similar to what we 
saw in 201 1. We continue to manage these price movements effectively 
through our general approach to margin management.
Divisional performance 
We manage the business in two segments. ‘Europe & North America’ 
(ENA) and ‘Asia & Rest of World’ (ARW). The reported results are on an 
‘origination basis’ , meaning the segmental sales and operating proﬁts are 
reported based on where the product is manufactured. We export many 
specialty products from Europe to Asia. Looking at sales on a destination 
basis, Europe & North America comprises 63% of Group turnover with 
Asia & Rest of World accounting for 37%.
Europe & North America (ENA)
796.9
777.7
2012 2012
2011
Underlying – as reported*
Sales (£m)
98.0
73.1
2012 2012
2011
Operating profit (£m)
796.9
913.0
2012 2012
2011
Underlying – pro-forma**
Sales (£m)
98.0
85.5
2012 2012
2011
Operating profit (£m)
825.9
900.8
2012 2012
2011
Volumes (ktes)
*  Underlying performance excludes special items as shown on the consolidated 
income statement. 
**  Reconciliation of underlying performance to pro-forma results is provided in the 
ﬁnancial review.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s report
Business review 10 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012






Investing in high growth markets






















 11 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012
Business review
Operating proﬁt in our ENA business was ahead by 15%, despite volumes 
for the year being down 8%. Demand generally softened in the second half 
of the year, as the eurozone crisis continued to affect the region. Demand 
was weakest for sales into the construction market. This particularly 
impacted our Construction & Coatings and Functional Polymers 
business units.
ENA beneﬁted from synergies, with the £16 million year-on-year 
improvement attributable principally to Europe, but this was somewhat 
offset by the translation effect of the weaker euro against sterling which 
adversely impacted operating proﬁt in ENA by £5.5 million. As part of the 
synergy delivery we announced the closure of three plants in ENA. Two were 
closed during the course of 201 1. The third plant, in Batley, UK, is expected 
to close in the second quarter of 2013, when capital investment to facilitate 
this is concluded at our Stallingborough dispersions facility. This will bring 
to a close the rationalisation of the European manufacturing network. 
There were multiple product launches in ENA during the year. These 
included several new pressure sensitive adhesive grades, new grades for 
textile print adhesives and a new thermo-mouldable carpet latex product. 
We also developed a new range of Lithene
®
 products, marketed under 
the brand of Lithene
®
ultra, which we expect to see good growth from 
during 2013.
Asia & Rest of World (ARW)
314.9
339.1
2012
2011
2012
2011
Underlying – as reported*
Sales (£m)
19.1
32.1
2012
2011
2012
2011
Operating profit (£m)
314.9
355.8
2012 2012
2011
Underlying pro-forma**
Sales (£m)
19.1
33.0
2012 2012
2011
Operating profit (£m)
347.7
333.7
2012 2012
2011
Volumes (ktes)
*  Underlying performance excludes special items as shown on the consolidated 
income statement. 
**  Reconciliation of underlying performance to pro-forma results is provided in the 
ﬁnancial review.
Operating proﬁt in our ARW segment was lower by 42%. Non-nitrile 
businesses in ARW, which are predominantly in our Construction & 
Coatings business unit, were strongly ahead in 2012, with operating proﬁt 
up by 20%. As previously highlighted, our nitrile business was affected by 
aggressive pricing in the market, driven largely by excess manufacturing 
capacity. Overall volumes in ARW were ahead by 4%.
Since we reported on the turbulence in the nitrile market at the half year, the 
business has generally stabilised and developed as we expected, although 
we are not anticipating any substantive improvement until towards the end 
of 2013. We continue to invest in this high growth sector, and at the end 
of 2012 we completed our 70,000 tonne expansion of our nitrile facility 
in Pasir Gudang. We also commenced work on converting one of our 
NBR lines to facilitate SBR production, which we will use to supply up to 
70,000 tonnes of SBR into Asia.
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to add value through our technology 
and know-how by deploying it into Asia and other emerging markets. 
We had several new product launches in the region in 2013. These included 
additives for polyester resin moulding, a high water resistant wood adhesive 
product and an improved self crosslinking nitrile latex grade. We also have 
two major product launches in the nitrile latex sector scheduled for 2013.
Adrian Whitﬁeld
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
14 March 2013
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s report
continued 12 Synthomer plc Annual report 2012
Leveraging technology in emerging markets
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to exploit its 
technology into applications in emerging markets, 
in line with mega-trends affecting these economies. 
Alongside superior performance and quality, 
this includes the trend to “green” products, with 
the elimination of APEO and formaldehyde from 
products in these regions. These include products 
sold under our Plextol, Revacryl and Emultex trade 
names and a range of customer speciﬁc grades. 
In South East Asia, Synthomer now offers products 
that can be formulated to meet the most demanding 
regional environmental standards, such as the 
Malaysian Eco-label and the Singapore Green Label, 
in all interior and exterior coating applications. 
New offerings that use Synthomer core technology 
are continually in development, with products such 
as the recently launched Revacryl 4370 for premium 
interior paints.
Markets in South Africa are also moving to more 
environmentally friendly coating systems. A growing 
application is the use of gypsum-based plasters that 
are applied over conventional plasters to achieve an 
ultra-smooth ﬁnish. This requires that a pigmented 
plaster primer be applied over it to ensure adhesion 
of subsequent water-based topcoats. Traditionally 
these primers have been based on solvent-based 
products, as conventional water-based primers 
cannot meet the performance requirements. 
Synthomer has developed Revacryl 8000, 
an emulsiﬁed system that can be formulated into 
water-based coatings using conventional thickeners 
and can eliminate the use of white spirits. 
This innovative solution has allowed access to 
this growing market sector with a product that 
both matches the performance of solvent 
systems whilst delivering a signiﬁcantly reduced 
environmental burden.
Revacryl 8000 replaces solvent-based 
systems in plaster primers.
Revacryl 4370 is an APEO free styrene 
acrylic polymer dispersion with a wide 
range of paint applications.
Plextol 4151 is a ﬁne particle sized 
APEO free acrylic polymer dispersion, 
for premium high durability 
exterior paints.
NBR latex plant, Pasir Gudang (Malaysia) NBR latex plant, Pasir Gudang (Malaysia) Dispersions plant, Dammam (Saudi Arabia) Dispersions plant, Dammam (Saudi Arabia)
