 10
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Financial review
For the 12 months to 31 December 2014, 
growth remained strong with 
revenue up by 127% to £10.7 million. 
Profit before tax increased 250% 
to £2.1 million (before 2013 AIM 
transactions costs) and the Group 
had net current assets of £6.4 million 
at the year end. The Group’s 
cash less overdrafts position as of 
31 December 2014 was £0.22 million 
(2013: £1.05 million). The Directors 
remain comfortable on the level 
of the Group’s cash balances which 
are currently in excess of £650,000 
(when factoring the receipt of a 
further payment from the Group’s key 
Indonesian customer which is in transit 
and anticipated to be received in the 
coming few days).
Operational review
Core Telco business – Yoomob 
The core business continues to perform 
strongly in Indonesia and Malaysia but 
we continue to look for new markets 
and new opportunities to drive the 
business forward. Yoomob transaction 
numbers increased from 9.6 million in 
2013 to 21.5 million in 2014. 6.7 million 
subscriptions have been booked as at 
the end of April 2015 with a revenue 
value of approximately £4.0 million 
(unaudited). Average transaction values 
The Board is pleased to report the Group’s 
results for the 2014 financial year in terms 
of financial progress, operational progress, 
industry position and the positive market 
backdrop that SyQic now operates within.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Statement SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11
Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements
have increased this year as a result of 
the withdrawal of individual channel 
subscriptions and replacement with 
higher value bundle offers.
Indonesia remains a key emerging 
market in Southeast Asia for SyQic. 
With 240 million inhabitants, it’s the 
world’s fourth most populous country 
and the largest economy in the region. 
Indonesian consumers are young (with 
60% under 30 years of age), tech savvy 
and regularly use a mobile phone to 
access the internet.
Similar to other foreign providers 
in the Indonesian mobile phone 
valued‑added services market, SyQic 
is unable to secure its own operating 
licence and therefore works with the 
three main telecoms companies via two 
MCPs. The companies through which 
SyQic’s Yoomob service is delivered to 
end users are the three largest mobile 
phone operators in Indonesia. These 
are Indosat, Telkomsel and XL Axiata, 
all of which are themselves at least 
part owned by larger international 
telecoms groups.
The MCPs that SyQic works with deal 
with a large number of different 
international providers supplying a 
range of services from ringtones to 
mobile phone games into the large 
Indonesian market. As well as acting as 
single points of contact for the supply 
of services, the MCPs also collect and 
distribute payments back to the service 
providers. The scale and complexity of 
the value‑added service operations of 
the telcos mean that payments to the 
MCPs themselves can take a number 
of months. Once the MCPs have been 
paid they will normally pay the service 
providers within 30 days.
In December 2014 we announced SyQic 
will make certain audio and video 
content available in Myanmar, via 
its core brand,Yoomob, to Ooredoo 
and Telenor subscribers. Ooredoo is a 
leading international communications 
company serving a customer base of 
92.9 million in markets throughout 
the Middle East, North Africa and 
Southeast Asia. Telenor Group is one of 
the world’s largest mobile companies 
with operations in Scandinavia, Eastern 
Europe, and Asia and has more than 
160 million mobile subscribers. 
According to a recent Fortune article 
(http://fortune.com/ 2014/09/18/asia‑ myanmar‑burma ‑ telecommunications‑ market), billions of dollars of foreign 
investment are being made in 
Myanmar leading to predictions that 
it will become the world’s fastest 
ever deployment of mobile services. 
Currently just 12.3% of the 53 million 
population has access to a mobile 
phone. Ovum, the global market 
research agency, predicts that the 
number of new mobile subscribers in 
Myanmar will grow at a compounded 
annual rate of nearly 30% to reach 
32.3 million people by the end of 2019.
Following the relaxation of the rules 
restricting foreign operators in the 
market, we believe there is large and 
increasing demand within Myanmar 
for foreign media content and 
we are confident that this market 
will respond positively to SyQic’s 
compelling offering.
Strong results
Revenue
£10.7m
Net cash
£0.22m
Earnings per share
8.14p 12
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
GlobeTel
We were very pleased by the end 
of year to have reached agreement 
with telecoms provider UK GlobeTel 
Ltd (“Globe UK”) to launch a 
UK based co‑branded version of 
our Filipino Yoonic OTT service. 
Under this agreement, Globe UK’s 
customers will be able to watch 
SyQic’s live and on‑demand channels 
from the Philippines via payment 
from their existing Globe account 
on a subscription‑based service. 
The agreement lasts for an initial 
period of one year and is renewable 
by both parties.
Cool2vu (formerly Maaduu) 
We announced in August 2014 the asset 
purchase from PlayTV Asia in Malaysia, 
of Maaduu, an online video‑on‑demand 
service. The Company successfully 
re‑launched the service, across Malaysia 
in October 2014 and subsequently 
across Indonesia and Singapore in 
November 2014. More recently, under 
its new branding Cool2vu, the service 
has expanded into Europe, South 
and Central America, India and 
the Philippines.
Currently the majority of customers are 
from Malaysia, being drawn from the 
existing Maaduu base, but we are now 
seeing encouraging growth patterns in 
South America and Europe. The Cool2vu 
service will shortly start generating 
advertising revenue and this is a 
revenue stream we expect to increase 
substantially as the service enters new 
markets and its user base continues to 
grow. In addition to the advertising 
revenue generated by Cool2vu, our 
strategy is to cross sell the platform’s 
content to our core telco customers to 
generate additional revenue. 
Partnership SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13
Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Industry consolidation
The Company is clearly now entering 
an exciting period of its corporate 
development. The successful purchase 
and launch of the Cool2vu service 
platform was extremely timely 
given the backdrop of the recent 
consolidation across the industry 
which has seen the purchase of Viki by 
Rakuten for $200 million in September 
2013 and DramaFever, by Softbank 
for an estimated $100 million in 
October 2014.
Both Viki and DramaFever are focused 
on supplying Southeast Asian content 
and we believe both deals indicate that 
targeting highly engaged audiences 
with niche content is a valuable 
strategy for the Company. SyQic is 
already developing a strong working 
relationship with Viki, with each party 
focusing on clear strategic areas in 
order to jointly monetise the market 
opportunity effectively.
Marketing and social media 
Having expanded the Cool2vu service 
into new markets, we need to move 
quickly to raise awareness of the service 
and ultimately, build a customer base. 
To that end, we are progressing an 
aggressive social media proliferation 
strategy globally that is already bearing 
fruit. We have looked at our online 
discoverability, engaged with UK 
Trade and Investment in these new 
and emerging markets, undertaken 
an external link building campaign 
and commissioned a forensic style 
audit of the cool2vu.com website by 
an acknowledged industry leader 
with a view to enhancing our search 
engine optimisation. 
In addition, the Company continues 
to collaborate with a specific range 
of news websites, groups and 
associations, and community leaders 
in various locations.
Research and development
Research and development continues 
to lie at the core of our activities. 
Development is carried out on an 
ongoing basis in order to enhance the 
user experience and functionality across 
all our platforms and interfaces. 
Outlook
The Company firmly believes that it 
has achieved a timely market entry as 
demand for the content that it supplies 
has never been more highly sought. 
The revenue recorded in the second 
half of 2014 was higher than that of the 
first half and we expect this trend of 
revenue growth to continue.
Notwithstanding these growth trends, 
the coming months will be significant 
for SyQic as the Cool2vu platform 
becomes established and we realise 
the full potential of the opportunity in 
Myanmar. 2015 promises to be exciting 
as we build on the achievements made 
in 2014.
The Company therefore looks to the 
year ahead with confidence.
Jamal Hassim
Group Chief Executive Officer
22 June 2015
