 08
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Chairman’s Statement
2014 saw increased global on‑demand 
access to video streaming for mobile 
devices. 2014 was a significant year 
for the Company in terms of both 
operational and financial progress. 
Revenue generation from our core telco 
products increased while we continued 
to invest in the development of our 
exciting OTT (over‑the‑top) platforms. 
Core business performance 
Our core telco business performed well 
in 2014 with revenues increasing on 
the previous year by 127%. Importantly 
the revenue dependence on our 
primary Indonesian master content 
provider (“MCP”) reduced from 62% 
of revenues in 2013 to 52% in 2014. 
The growth in Group revenue was 
primarily attributable to increased user 
take‑up across the Group’s telco service 
platforms. We continue to believe 
the opportunity exists to enhance 
this offering further by the addition 
of more compelling content and the 
Company plans to continue to acquire 
content that has a high value to its 
user base.
Korean content OTT service
In August 2014, we announced the 
purchase of the operating assets 
of the Korean drama streaming 
service, Maaduu from PlayTV Asia 
2014 was a year of significant progress for 
SyQic, set against the trend of increased, 
global on‑demand access to video streaming 
for mobile devices.  SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 09
Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements
for £1.03 million and £0.06 million of 
shares in SyQic. The initial consideration 
of approximately £570,000 was paid in 
cash on completion. The transaction was 
structured in order to protect SyQic’s 
shareholders and it is now considered 
unlikely that any of the conditional 
deferred consideration will become 
payable. The purchase was funded 
through a successful equity placing to 
raise £1.85 million before expenses. 
Korean content was already very 
popular on the Company’s sites, despite 
only representing a small proportion of 
SyQic’s content portfolio. The rationale 
behind the acquisition was therefore 
to have a much deeper offering of this 
proven content to drive consumption 
and further increase user numbers. 
Following the acquisition, the Company 
is already seeing revenue generation 
opportunities in the areas of advertising, 
subscription and e‑commerce. 
The Company has since invested 
heavily in software development and 
successfully rebranded Maaduu as 
Cool2vu. Today, the Cool2vu platform 
can be accessed by both Android and 
iOS internet enabled devices in addition 
to PCs, dramatically increasing the 
Company’s addressable market.
OTT payment service increase 
In September 2014, we announced 
the activation of a mobile payment 
service for our OTT offerings. The new 
payment service will facilitate the 
monetisation of the Company’s OTT 
services across its global markets.
The mobile phone payment service has 
been developed in partnership with 
international mobile payment provider 
Fortumo. Fortumo currently has live 
mobile payment services operating in 
81 countries over six continents, with 
a strong focus on emerging markets. 
The partnership therefore facilitates 
SyQic’s introduction of its OTT services 
into new geographies.
Launch of mobile service 
in Myanmar
In December 2014 the Company entered 
into a licencing agreement with Blue 
Ocean Operations Management Ltd, 
a prominent telco content provider 
in Myanmar. Under the agreement 
SyQic will make certain of its audio and 
video content available in Myanmar 
over the Telenor and Ooredoo 
mobile networks. We look forward to 
updating shareholders on this exciting 
development at the appropriate time.
Trade receivables
As in previous years the Company 
has generated a high proportion of 
its 2014 revenue from the Indonesian 
market where SyQic works with MCPs 
to reach the end users of the three 
largest telcos. In previous years SyQic 
has worked mainly with one MCP in 
this market but the transaction volume 
coming through a second MCP has 
grown in 2014 to also represent a 
significant share of the Company’s total 
revenue. As a result of the increase in 
revenue earned from Indonesia the 
combined amount receivable from 
the two MCPs, before adjustment for 
fair value, increased from £4.0 million 
to £7.5 million during 2014. The 
payment terms involved in operating 
this business model are protracted and 
periodically during the year this has put 
pressure on the Company’s operating 
cash flow. In fact in previous years the 
Company had to agree to separate 
payment plans with PTNP to recover 
amounts due from 2012 and 2013. 
This has led the Company’s auditor 
to include an emphasis of matter in 
relation to the trade receivables credit 
exposure in their audit statement. 
Nevertheless, I can report that our 
primary MCP met all scheduled 
payments during 2014 to recover these 
prior year billings. In addition, they 
have honoured their commitment 
to pay 2014 billings more promptly. 
Taking into account the payment that 
is currently in transit SyQic will have 
received payments relating to amounts 
billed up to and including July 2014. 
Further details of our Indonesian 
operations are given in the Group Chief 
Executive Officer’s Statement.
Outlook
I was delighted to be appointed 
Non‑Executive Chairman of the Board 
in late November at such an exciting 
stage in the Company’s development. 
The Directors anticipate that the 
Company’s investment into premium 
content licensing for the existing 
services together with the development 
of the Cool2vu platform will provide 
it with a stronger value proposition 
going forward. 
Together with global scalability and 
encouraging trends for video streaming, 
we have entered 2015 with increasing 
confidence and believe SyQic is well 
placed to meet its goals and objectives 
for the coming year and capitalise on 
the global video streaming trends and 
consequently deliver significant value 
for shareholders. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like 
to express my sincere appreciation to 
the management and staff for their 
hard work in the last year. I would also 
like to thank our investors, customers 
and partners for their continuing 
strong support.
David Cotterell
Non‑Executive Chairman
22 June 2015
