 02  Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013  
Dividend
The Board has recommended an 
increased ﬁnal dividend of 3.6p per 
share, making a total dividend for the 
year of 6.0p. The full year dividend of 
6.0p represents an increase of 9.1% 
over the previous year, and a dividend 
cover of 3.5 times, on track with  
the Board’s commitment to reduce  
dividend cover to three times by 2015.
Safety, health and environment
The Group is committed to the 
continuous improvement of its 
performance in respect of safety,  
health and the environment. I am 
pleased that almost all of the metrics 
that we measure in this area showed 
good improvement over the prior year. 
People
The Group has achieved a great deal 
in recent years with its transformation 
to a focused specialty aqueous polymers 
business. None of this could have been 
achieved without the hard work and 
dedication of the Group’s employees 
and I thank all of them for their support 
and hard work during this period.
Board composition
I am delighted that Brendan Connolly 
joined the Board as an Independent 
Non-executive Director on 20 January 
2014. Brendan was, until June 2013, 
a senior executive at Intertek Group PLC 
and had previously been Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of Moody International (which 
was acquired by Intertek in 2011).  
Prior to Intertek, Brendan spent more 
than 25 years of his career with 
Schlumberger in senior international 
roles over three continents.
Outlook
Whilst European macroeconomic 
indicators have started to show some 
more positive trends, we still see limited 
evidence of a sustained improvement 
in trading conditions in Europe. We have 
seen some signs of modest demand 
improvement in our European 
Construction & Coatings, Functional 
Polymers and Performance Polymers 
Overview
The Group experienced another 
challenging year in 2013. The economic 
environment in Europe continued  
to impact our trading performance, 
leading to a modest decline in  
earnings for the year. While this is a 
disappointment after several years of 
continuous improvement, the Board 
believes the overall result demonstrates 
the Group’s resilience in the context of 
the economic conditions. The underlying 
performance reﬂects the beneﬁts of 
Synthomer’s transition over the last 
5 years into a major player in specialty 
aqueous polymers.
Full year performance
Underlying Group sales declined  
5.1% to £1,054.9 million (2012  
£1 , 1 11 .8 million) with Group volumes 
slightly up, despite a 2.5% decline 
in Europe due to the effect of the 
challenging trading environment. 
Underlying Group operating proﬁt for  
the year was £104.8 million (2012 
£111.2 million), a 5.8% decline on 2012. 
This was due principally to operating 
proﬁt in our European & North American 
(ENA) business being 10% down on the 
prior year at £89.8 million, where, for the 
ﬁrst time in 6 years we saw our average 
cash margins decline. Encouragingly, 
Asia and ROW business (ARW) proﬁts 
rose by 21% to £23.1 million, as the 
market conditions we experienced in 
our nitrile business in 2012 recovered 
ahead of our initial expectations.
Underlying Group proﬁt before tax  
was £90.1 million (2012 £94.6 million), 
a decline of 4.8%, whilst earnings  
per share at 20.7p (2012 20.9p)  
was down by 1.0%. After deducting 
special items IFRS proﬁt before tax  
was £59.1 million (2012 £58.8 million).
Strategy
Our strategy remains unchanged, 
focusing on delivering growth through 
geographic expansion in emerging 
markets, where mega-trends such  
as population growth, urbanisation  
and increasing wealth are driving 
demand for our products across the 
region. In these high-growth regions,  
we are able to leverage the leading 
technologies, R&D and manufacturing 
capabilities which we have developed 
in European markets to give us a strong 
competitive advantage. We have worked 
hard to optimise our business in Europe 
since the PolymerLatex acquisition  
and ongoing cost management remains 
a key focus of the Group, particularly  
in the current economic environment.
Given the economic situation in Europe, 
we are taking some self-help actions in 
our European business. We have set in 
progress a programme to reduce costs 
by ¤10 million. This programme will have 
a cash cost of some ¤15 million, of which 
¤5 million will be capital expenditure.
Despite the weaker trading conditions 
in Europe, our business remains  
highly cash generative, allowing us to 
continue to invest in emerging market 
opportunities. During the year we 
commissioned our new 70,000 tonne 
nitrile latex capacity expansion in Pasir 
Gudang, Malaysia and also established 
SBR manufacturing capability on the 
site. We expanded our Middle East 
facilities, and will further expand them 
during 2014, along with bringing new 
capacity in Vietnam on stream. 
Additionally, we continue to look  
for further investment opportunities  
to expand our footprint in Asia.
Balance sheet
Net debt, at £133.6 million, was 
£22.2 million lower than the start  
of the year. This represents a net 
borrowing to EBITDA ratio of 1.1,  
which the Board considers to be 
a prudent leverage position.
Chairman’s statement Overview
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013  03  
segments in recent months. However, 
we have entered 2014 with unit cash 
margins across the ENA business slightly 
below the 2013 average, and weakening 
of the Euro through the second half of 
2013 will create a year-on-year drag.
We expect some further improvement 
in Asia as the supply demand position 
in Nitrile tightens and Synthomer 
continues to beneﬁt from additional 
capacity and investment.
The Board remains conﬁdent that 
Synthomer is well placed for the future 
despite the European trading conditions.
Neil Johnson
Chairman
27 February 2014
“ Our strategy remains unchanged, focusing on delivering 
growth through geographic expansion in emerging markets... 
we are able to leverage the leading technologies, R&D and 
manufacturing capabilities which we have developed 
in European markets to give us a strong competitive 
advantage.”
 Neil Johnson 
 Chairman
