 10
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 10
Business review 
2013 was a transformational and very exciting year 
for SyQic, culminating in the successful admission to 
AIM on 4 December 2013. The Board was also pleased 
to announce the development of Yoonic, SyQic’s OTT 
mobile video streaming platform, as well as making 
considerable progress with partners in terms of content 
acquisition. The Yoomob telco oriented platform 
was significantly enhanced during the period, with 
additional functionality and new innovations to the 
services being successfully carried out.
During the period, the Board made a number of 
strategic changes to the Group’s routes to market. 
These were the result of considerable market research 
and obtaining customer feedback in order to refine the 
Group’s offering to make it as compelling as possible to 
potential customers and has led to the Group targeting 
communities individually. This has had an unexpected 
benefit for SyQic as it means that launches can occur 
internationally on a simultaneous basis, thereby 
reaching as broad an audience as possible.
2013 was a transformational and very 
exciting year for SyQic, culminating in 
the successful admission to AIM  
on 4 December 2013. 
Chairman’s Statement Continuing enhancement
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 11
In response to the feedback that was 
obtained from the initial phase of the 
launch of Yoonic to the Bangladeshi 
community, the Group is adapting 
its model and refining its routes to 
market. Take up of the service has been 
very encouraging and there has also 
been substantial interest from retailers 
in the UK, Europe, the Middle East, 
Malaysia and Singapore to offer the 
service to their Bangladesh and other 
migrant customers. 
IPO
SyQic was delighted to join AIM 
on 4 December 2013, having raised 
£3.2 million via Allenby Capital in an 
over‑subscribed fundraise, of which 
£2.45 million was raised as new equity 
for the Company. The proceeds of 
the Placing, along with existing cash 
resources, are being used to launch 
the Group’s services in the UK and 
continental Europe. These funds are 
also being utilised for the purposes 
of content acquisition, research and 
development, development of a new 
payment method, establishing local 
and regional distribution hubs and sales 
and marketing activities. 
The Board is pleased that these areas 
are being progressed since the IPO and 
will continue to be the focus of the 
Group’s efforts.
Prospects for 2014
The Group is at an important stage 
of its development, and 2014 will see 
the continuing enhancement of both 
the Yoomob and Yoonic platforms and 
growth of landings and geographical 
footprint where the service is made 
available. The Board is pleased that 
the market environment for SyQic’s 
services is very positive particularly as 
the consumption of data on mobile 
devices continues to grow, and the 
global migrant market that the Group 
is targeting is significant.
Appreciation
On behalf of the Board I would like 
to express my deep appreciation to 
the management and staff for their 
dedication and hard work in meeting 
the challenges for the past year and 
the successful IPO of the Company. 
I would also like to thank our investors, 
customers and partners for their 
strong support.
William Liu Wei Hai
Non‑Executive Chairman
18 June 2014
The Board is pleased that the 
market environment for SyQic’s 
services is very positive particularly 
as the consumption of data on 
mobile devices continues to grow.
Substantial interest from retailers in the UK, 
Europe, the Middle East, Malaysia and Singapore 
to offer the service to their Bangladesh and 
other migrant customers. 
Performance review
