 12  Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013  
Divisional performance
We manage the Group as two 
businesses: ‘Europe & North America’ 
(ENA) and ‘Asia & Rest of World’  
(ARW). The reported results are on  
an ‘origination basis’, meaning the 
business sales and operating proﬁts are 
reported based on where the product is 
manufactured; ENA accounted for 71% 
of Group sales and ARW for 29% of 
Group sales. We export many specialty 
products from Europe to Asia. Looking 
at sales on a destination basis, ENA 
comprises 63% of Group sales with 
ARW accounting for 37%. Within the 
two businesses, we approach the 
market through six strategic business 
unit segments, “Paper” , “Carpet, 
Compounds and Foam” (CCF), 
“Construction and Coatings” (CC), 
“Functional Polymers” (FP), 
“Performance Polymers” (PP) and 
“Health and Protection” (HP) – which 
includes our Asian nitrile Latex business.
Europe & North America (ENA)
Operating proﬁt in our ENA business 
was down by 10.4%, with aggregate 
volumes 2.5% lower.
The economic situation in Europe 
continued to impact demand, 
particularly in our Construction related 
segments, which was most pronounced 
early in the year, when poor weather 
resulted in soft demand in what is 
normally a seasonally strong period.  
We have also seen a reduction in 
average unit cash margins.
This margin impact has been most 
pronounced in our Paper and CCF 
segments, whilst declines in CC, 
PP and FP were very modest.
Volumes for the year were lower across 
the construction related segments  
of CC, PP , FP and CCF . Despite the 
overall decline in the European paper 
market, we saw some volume 
improvement in our Paper segment, 
increasing our share overall, albeit  
on generally lower unit cash margins.
Overview
2013 was a challenging year for the 
Group, with underlying Group operating 
proﬁt of £104.8 million, 5.8% below 
prior year.
The general economic situation in 
Europe, with lower demand led to 
a lower ENA operating proﬁt. As we 
entered 2014 the operating environment  
in Europe remained challenging. 
Encouragingly, we saw recovery  
in our Asian Nitrile business come 
through ahead of our expectations  
in 2013, and overall operating proﬁt  
in Asia and ROW was ahead.
Net of interest, and a reduced tax rate, 
earnings were down slightly on 2012.
This was the ﬁrst year that underlying 
earnings have declined since 2006, 
when we started the process of 
transforming the Company into a 
focused specialty aqueous polymers 
business. Whilst this was disappointing, 
we continued to make good overall 
progress during the year in improving 
the capability of the business to deliver 
future growth and maintain a tight 
control on costs. 
The acquisition of PolymerLatex three 
years ago was an important part of  
the transformation of the Group into  
a focused specialty aqueous polymer 
group. We have now effectively 
completed the work on delivering  
the integration synergies from the 
acquisition with the closure of the  
Batley site in the UK.
During the year we further strengthened 
the Group’s Executive Management 
team with the recruitment of new 
regional VP’s for both Asia and Europe.
I believe we are well placed for the 
future, focused on aqueous polymers, 
with a stronger management team  
and enhanced capability in the areas  
of product development and process 
know-how, combined with a more 
modern and cost effective asset base 
and state-of-the-art R&D facilities.
We saw clear evidence that our rate of 
innovation is improving, with a number 
of patent ﬁlings during the year. The new 
product launches from 2012, including 
new Lithene
®
 Ultra, grew well during 
2013. We also launched two new nitrile 
grades during the year. Looking forward, 
the quality of our innovation pipeline  
is encouraging, and we believe we  
are well set for future growth. We expect 
several new product launches during 
the coming year across our business, 
including new products in nitrile latex.
New products launched in the last 
5 years contributed over 12% of 2013 
Group revenues. We are conﬁdent of 
being able to improve this percentage, 
and have a mid-term target of sales 
from new products, deﬁned as products 
launched in the preceding 5 years, 
increasing to a level where they contribute 
20% of annual group revenues.
On the investment front, we 
commissioned two new nitrile latex  
lines in Malaysia at the beginning of 
2013. Our Dispersion expansion in 
Stallingborough, to allow the closure  
of Batley, was completed. In paper,  
we completed the investment in 
bio-polymer hybrid latex in Finland,  
and commenced investment in 
Germany for the same and similar 
products. We continued to invest  
in many smaller projects to improve  
the overall capability of our plants  
to drive our commercial and cost 
effectiveness in servicing our customer 
base. We will be expanding our 
Vietnamese and Saudi Arabian 
dispersions capacity during 2014, and 
are currently developing plans to further 
expand our nitrile latex capacity in Asia.
Raw material price volatility was 
relatively low during the year, compared 
to recent years, albeit with a modest 
decline over the year. This modest 
decline in input prices has lowered 
working capital requirements slightly  
and helped in the reduction of net debt 
to £133.6 million.
 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s report Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013  13  
Strategic report
“ We are well placed for the future, focused on aqueous 
polymers, with a stronger management team and enhanced 
capability in the areas of product development and process 
know-how, combined with a more modern and cost effective 
asset base and state-of-the-art R&D facilities.”
Adrian Whitﬁeld
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
A further key part of the Group’s 
strategy is to add value through our 
technology and know-how by deploying 
it into Asia and other emerging markets. 
We had several new product launches 
in the region in 2013. We have launched 
a new product range for chopped 
strand glass ﬁbre mat applications, 
where our knowledge of textile binders 
has been effectively used in a new 
application area. Our new nitrile grade 
for examination gloves was launched to 
the market, which offered a signiﬁcant 
improvement in ﬁlm strength to support 
the market trend of lower glove weights. 
This was combined with a versatile 
performance on the glove dipping line, 
giving our customers process and 
formulation ﬂexibility. Market acceptance 
was extremely positive and by the end 
of the year, the new grade was the 
biggest selling product in the Synthomer 
range. Further development work to 
extend the product line is ongoing. 
Adrian Whitﬁeld
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
27 February 2014
After reporting ENA volumes down 
5.1% in the ﬁrst half of the year, demand 
generally remained soft in the second 
half of the year, as the difﬁcult economic 
conditions in Europe continued to affect 
performance. Overall volumes in the 
second half of the year were similar 
to prior year with the volume declines 
in the construction related segments 
predominantly occurring in the ﬁrst half 
of the year.
There were multiple product launches 
in ENA during the year. Two new 
bio-polymer hybrid products were 
launched to the coated paper market, 
based on our new technology platform 
to optimise performance and cost. 
A new Lithene
®
 Ultra grade was 
introduced to the market in a niche 
encapsulation area, which was enabled 
by our improved low VOC capability. 
Market introductions for High-Solids 
SBR have been made for the US asphalt 
market and for foam applications that 
meet the speciﬁc demands in China. 
A number of other products are in the 
initial commercialisation phase, for 
example, in wood coatings, pressure 
sensitive adhesives and ﬂooring 
adhesive segments, where we expect 
to see full market launch next year.
ENA is our platform for cash generation 
to drive future global growth. We have 
worked hard since the PolymerLatex 
acquisition to create an optimised 
business in Europe, with the closure 
of three plants, and the delivery of 
substantial cost reductions, which have 
positioned us well to deal with the 
economic situation. However, ongoing 
cost management remains a key focus  
of the Group, and we have launched  
a programme comprising a broad range 
of further improvements which will help 
support performance during 2014 and 
2015. The programme will reduce costs 
in the business by ¤10 million per 
annum by the end of 2015. Critical 
elements in delivering this will be 
increased process and energy efﬁciency, 
productivity improvements and 
optimised systems across all functions. 
We anticipate cash cost of circa 
¤15 million for the implementation of 
this programme, of which ¤5 million 
will be capex.
Asia & Rest of World (ARW) 
Operating proﬁt in our ARW segment was 
higher by 20.9% on 8.2% higher volumes.
Since we reported on the turbulence in 
the nitrile market half way through 2012, 
the business, having stabilised in the 
second half of 2012, developed ahead 
of our expectations during 2013. We 
expect to see supply demand tighten 
during 2014, with a further improvement 
in proﬁtability.
The non-nitrile business has seen  
good demand. As we exited the year, 
we experienced a slight deterioration  
in the competitive environment in 
South-east Asia as a competitor 
prepared to bring new Dispersion 
capacity in Malaysia on line to service 
the region.
Overall, we continue to see good 
prospects for the non-nitrile business 
in Asia. Expansion in the region is a core 
part of our strategy, and we will bring  
on further capacity in Middle East and 
Vietnam in 2014. We also continue to 
pursue opportunities for growth in the 
region through acquisition.
Europe & North America (ENA) Asia & Rest of World (ARW)
Underlying – as reported*
Sales (£m)
2012
2013 744.8
796.9
Underlying – as reported*
Sales (£m)
2012
2013 310.1
314.9
Operating profit (£m)
2012
2013 89.8
100.2
Volumes (ktes)
2012
2013 805.5
825.9
Operating profit (£m)
2012
2013 23.1
19.1
Volumes (ktes)
2012
2013 376.2
347.7
*  Underlying performance excludes special items as shown on the consolidated income statement. 14  Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013  
Operating efﬁciently
Synthomer was one of the ﬁrst companies to 
sign the UK Chemical Industries Association’s 
sustainable development principles. As part 
of this commitment we strive to improve our 
environmental performance year on year.
To help the Company achieve this objective 
a comprehensive performance monitoring 
structure has been in place for over 10 years 
and resulted in a steady improvement of  
our environmental performance. To continue 
this trend and reduce speciﬁc energy 
consumption (consumption per ton) 
Synthomer has begun implementing 
a comprehensive energy management 
system (EMS).
Since 2011, Synthomer has undertaken 
a scheme to establish EMS to meet  
the ISO50001 standard at a number  
of its European sites. As a result, our 
site in Langelsheim, Germany acquired 
the ISO50001 accreditation in 2012.  
This success has led the way for our three 
production sites, labs and ofﬁces in Marl  
to work towards achieving the standard.
The Marl site began work on achieving  
the ISO50001 accreditation in 2012, 
implementing a number of projects designed 
to improve efﬁciency. One of the key projects 
involved the installation and optimisation  
of a new stripper for the puriﬁcation of SBR 
latex as a key part of the energy savings. 
The new stripping process is much more 
efﬁcient and allows signiﬁcant savings in 
steam and electrical energy (e.g. to run 
pumps). The steam consumption of the  
plant using the new stripper has reduced  
by over 23%. This has resulted in annual 
savings of 16,000 MWh, enough energy to 
heat 800 terraced houses for an entire year. 
This initiative is one of many which focus  
on improving operational efﬁciency and have 
a positive impact on Synthomer’s operational 
and ﬁnancial performance.
Excellence
800
A new stripping process 
results in energy savings 
equivalent to the  
annual consumption  
of 800 houses
Excellence
Growth
Innovation
