 12
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
The Board is pleased to report the Group’s 
results on the back of an exciting year, 
which showed considerable growth 
in revenues to £4.71 million.
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 12
Results
The Board is pleased to report the Group’s results 
on the back of an exciting year, which showed 
considerable growth in revenues to £4.71 million, 
from £3.91 million in 2012, an increase of 20%. 
Particularly pleasing was the fact that the second 
half of 2013 was very strong with revenues 
during the second half of 2013 almost double the 
revenues achieved in the same period in 2012. 
Profit before tax was lower at £0.10 million (2012: 
£0.63 million), caused by an increase in investment 
in manpower as the roll out of Yoonic and 
Yoomob evolve, as well as AIM transaction costs of 
£0.47 million. The lower 2013 net profit can also be 
attributed to the expensing of platform‑enhancing 
development costs. This treatment will be 
continued in 2014 to provide greater transparency 
of the Group’s ongoing development costs. 
Earnings per share excluding AIM transaction costs 
were 3.63 pence (basic) (2012: 4.15 pence) and 
2.91 pence (diluted) (2012: 3.26 pence) and after 
AIM transaction costs totalled 0.64 pence (basic) 
and 0.51 pence (diluted). 
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 13
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Performance review
Strong results
Performance review
13
The Group’s net cash position is robust 
at £1.05 million as at 31 December 2013 
(2012: £0.05 million), with total assets 
of £5.72 million (2012: £3.23 million). 
Trade receivables increased to 
£3.7 million from £2.3 million in 2012. 
Of this amount £3.3 million is owed by 
one customer with which the Group 
has agreed a repayment plan for 2012 
and 2013 billings under which the 
full amount will be repaid in monthly 
instalments by June 2016. The payments 
to date have been on time and as 
scheduled. This lengthy payment was 
caused by regulatory developments in 
Indonesia. The 2014 billings with the 
customer will be paid more promptly.
The Board was pleased that the 
Group’s successful admission to AIM on 
4 December 2013 raised £3.2 million via 
Allenby Capital in an over‑subscribed 
fundraise, of which £2.45 million was 
raised as new equity for the Company. 
As announced at the time of the IPO, 
these funds are being used to complete 
the development of the Yoomob 
Plus service platform, to enhance the 
existing Yoomob platform and to 
roll out the Group’s Yoonic service 
internationally. 
Yoonic has already been successfully 
launched for the Bangladeshi 
communities in the UK and Malaysia 
with a complete Bangladeshi video 
content offering. Further Yoonic 
service launches for the Bangladesh 
communities in the Middle East, 
Australasia and the United States are 
on the road map. The Group will also 
be rolling out the Yoonic services for 
other migrant groups globally in the 
remainder of 2014 beginning with the 
Filipino service in June.
Yoonic launch 
On 20 December 2013 the Board 
was pleased to announce the UK 
pilot launch of Yoonic, the Group’s 
OTT platform to provide live TV and 
on‑demand paid video content to 
mobile devices. Yoonic has efficient 
mobile video streaming as its core 
offering and allows for close to high 
definition streaming, with the ability to 
stream as low as 80kbps, and to scale 
very quickly.
Following this successful pilot launch, 
the Group has responded to the 
feedback and adapted its offering as 
a result. Key to this is the Group’s shift 
from a general roll‑out plan to a phased 
one with each launch being specifically 
targeted and focused on a particular 
migrant community. 
This has the advantage that 
each community can be reached 
simultaneously across the multiple 
territories in which SyQic operates 
meaning that the Group can reach 
significant numbers of potential users 
of the service for minimal incremental 
marketing spend.
The shift in focus from targeting 
a range of nationalities in one 
location, to targeting a single migrant 
community at a time across a number 
of territories, has been a significant one 
that refocuses the Group’s marketing 
activities. Consequently the Group is 
developing individual sites for each 
targeted community, addressing 
their specific requirements (including 
language needs), and is launching these 
sites internationally, thereby reaching 
much larger potential audiences. 
This has meant some renegotiation 
with content providers to amend the 
terms under which the content can be 
distributed but this has been completed 
successfully and future agreements will 
be entered into on this basis.
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
£4.71m £1.05m 3.63p
Revenue Net cash Earnings per share 14
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Since the period just ended, the other 
significant development in the roll 
out of Yoonic has been in the area of 
payment options. The addition of a PIN 
based scratchcard payment method 
was announced on 27 March 2014, and 
is a significant step forward in terms 
of ease of use of the platform. From 
the feedback obtained during the 
pilot launch of Yoonic, it has become 
apparent that it is considerably more 
attractive to have a pre‑payment 
option available, rather than expecting 
customers to submit their payment 
details online.
The Board believes that having this 
tangible relationship with consumers 
will have a beneficial effect on the 
initial take up of the service and help 
in the proliferation of the Yoonic 
brand, thereby enhancing the ongoing 
usage rates. These cards will have 
distinct designs to target the relevant 
community for each launch. The 
scratchcard model is a well established 
model amongst the demographic that 
the Group is targeting and the Board 
believes that this will be a compelling 
payment method for the service. 
The scratchcards are already on sale 
in the UK and Malaysia in various 
retail outlets in central hubs of the 
Bangladeshi community. In the UK 
the scratch cards are already available 
at more than twenty‑five retailers in 
London and Luton, and the Group 
is in the process of signing up more 
outlets in the Midlands, the North and 
Scotland. In Malaysia the Group has 
partnered with the largest distributor 
of prepaid scratchcards and this has 
resulted in them being available 
nationally. In Singapore the Group is 
in the midst of partnering Singapore 
Post and 7‑Eleven; both being major 
retailers, to make the scratch cards 
available nationwide.
The Group is currently putting in place 
a scratch card distribution network 
in the Middle East. These distribution 
points, with some additions, will also 
serve to distribute scratch cards for the 
other migrant groups as well. 
The Group has also initiated a peer to 
peer marketing methodology within 
each migrant group to enhance the 
viral effect to promote the Yoonic 
service within each Community. This 
method will be replicated for each 
migrant group. 
The viral activity is enhanced by the 
Group’s participation and presence at 
Community events, and partnerships 
formed with Community based media.
The Board is excited to progress this 
strategy in terms of the way that 
it will target its potential customer 
base and also to continue to develop 
the technology and payment options 
for consumers. The initial launch of 
Yoonic has been successful for the 
international Bangladesh community, 
and this will be followed by further 
launches. This is a significant 
development in the growth of the 
Group as the launch of the Yoonic 
OTT model is the commencement of 
a major new revenue contributor. It is 
anticipated that the OTT income will 
become the main revenue driver for 
the Group supported by the Yoomob 
telco oriented service which will 
become a relatively smaller revenue 
contributor over time. The take up for 
the Bangladesh service has been very 
positive and the Group anticipates 
that this will be the case for the other 
migrant segments as well.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued Performance review
15
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Yoomob and Yoomob Plus
The Group’s Yoomob platform streams 
video content to a broad range of 
mobile devices including to basic 
feature mobile phones. The telco 
business segment continues to be a 
core product for SyQic in the short to 
medium term and SyQic increased the 
number of telco companies that are a 
part of the Yoomob network during 
the period and are continuing to roll 
out new sites particularly in developing 
countries. In the medium to long term, 
the Board anticipates that Yoonic, which 
represents a step change in the Group’s 
operations, enhanced user experience 
and functionality, will overtake Yoomob 
but, in the meantime the telco business 
continues to grow steadily, providing 
a foundation for the phased rollouts 
of Yoonic.
In 2013 the Yoomob service was 
enhanced by the Group’s in‑house 
R&D division into Yoomob Plus and is 
now available on more handsets with 
a number of new features, such as the 
introduction of catch‑up TV. This allows 
users to view live content at a later date, 
at a resolution close to high definition.
The Group has recently launched new 
telco services including SmartFren in 
Indonesia and a second, more enhanced 
service with Maxis in Malaysia. Further 
launches are being prepared with XL 
in Indonesia, MPT in Myanmar and 
Banglalink in Bangladesh.
Partnerships
Content acquisition is one of SyQic’s 
key strengths, with over 40,000 titles of 
online video‑on‑demand content and 
over 200 live television feeds, across 
a range of genres including movies, 
drama, music, sports, news, lifestyle and 
general entertainment genres. In 2013 
SyQic developed these relationships 
significantly, signing agreements with 
major broadcasters and content providers 
for content in a number of new countries.
The Group’s relationships with telco 
operators continues to broaden, 
with new agreements signed during 
the period to extend the scope of 
Yoomob, particularly in territories 
such as the Philippines and Indonesia. 
Further developments are anticipated 
in advance of the next roll‑outs in 
Myanmar, Indonesia and Bangladesh.
Geographic markets
The Board believes that its strategy 
of targeting each community group 
on an individual basis and launching 
services to that group simultaneously 
internationally will be beneficial to the 
Group in terms of customer adoption of 
the offering.
Importantly the Group aims to establish 
regional distribution networks that 
can be used in successive migrant 
community launches. For example, 
the distribution network that is being 
established in the Middle East as part of 
the launch of the Bangladesh offering, 
can then be used to launch the Filipino, 
Nepalese, Turkish and Polish products, 
and then any others that the Group 
rolls‑out there.
The key geographic markets are broad, 
but with a targeted approach to 
marketing to one specific community 
at a time, the Board believes that 
SyQic will be in a strong position to 
increase subscription numbers. The 
Yoonic service is already available in 
the UK and Malaysia and launches in 
Singapore, Europe, Middle East and the 
United States in the coming months. 
Partnership
Content acquisition is one of SyQic’s key strengths, 
with over 40,000 titles of online video‑on‑demand 
content and over 200 live television feeds. 16
SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Marketing
The Group is striving to reach each 
community at the relevant touch 
point and is therefore targeting a very 
specific and targeted range of news 
websites, groups and associations, and 
community leaders in various locations. 
The Group has plans to develop affiliate 
programmes that will incentivise 
customers to introduce other people to 
the service. 
On a broader scale, management has 
recognised that there are particular 
locations that communities gravitate 
to, such as international money transfer 
facilities, and plans to establish a 
presence in such locations. 
As the roll‑out of Yoonic continues 
to progress, it is anticipated that 
the Marketing Team will be further 
strengthened. In particular it is essential 
that migrant marketing managers are 
hired to lead each migrant push so that 
there is greater understanding of the 
marketing nuances required to address 
the needs of each migrant group.
Research and development
Research and development is at the 
core of the Group’s activities and was a 
continued focus during the period. As 
the Group executes the phased launch 
of Yoonic, development of the platform 
continues as well as the ongoing 
development of Yoomob.
Investment into research and 
development has been in line with 
the management expectations for 
the year, with the Yoonic platform 
being successfully built in order to 
ensure that it is fully scaleable as the 
roll‑out continues into new territories. 
The Board believes that the foundations 
for growth are in place and the Group 
is now in a position to scale the 
business up.
Another focus of the research 
and development has been the 
strengthening of SyQic’s service security, 
content distribution, content database 
and systems to manage customer data. 
Data storage has been increased in 
order to prepare for the forthcoming 
launches as the volume of content 
stored will need to grow significantly.
SyQic ultimately intends for its 
platforms to become a hub for its users 
to interact and build communities. 
Research is being carried out on an 
ongoing basis in order to enhance 
the user experience and functionality, 
particularly in terms of new applications 
for both Android and iOS devices. 
Interactive features such as blogging, 
chatting, gaming and social networking 
are all being explored, with the aim 
of making the service as engaging as 
possible in order to ensure customer 
retention.
The Group is developing the technology 
to closely monitor user behaviour, 
which will enable analysis of how 
customers are utilising the service and 
consequently identify trends and up‑sell 
to existing users.
At the time of the IPO the Board 
stated that 40% of the proceeds 
of that fundraise would be used to 
fund research and development and 
anticipates that a number of new 
features will be announced over the 
coming months. It is anticipated that 
the Group’s expenditure on research 
and development will continue at a 
similar pace as the enhancement of the 
service continues.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued SyQic plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Performance review
17
The Group is currently in advanced 
discussions with University College 
London, the University of Wales and 
the National University of Singapore 
to advance research collaboration 
in a number of key areas that will 
significantly advance the Group’s 
technology offering. Working 
with these academic institutions is 
anticipated to allow the Group to tap 
a wider knowledge pool and research 
base than the Group alone would be 
capable of.
The Group is also continuing its UK 
university internship programme which 
has yielded great talent for the Group’s 
Development Team.
Outlook
The coming months will be significant 
for the Group as it rolls out Yoonic 
across the key markets of the 
Bangladeshi, Filipino, Nepalese, Turkish 
and Polish communities. The ongoing 
development in infrastructure in the 
various countries that the Group is 
targeting is an additional driver of 
growth for the platform. SyQic will 
be looking at reaching out to other 
migrant groups in the latter part of 
the year including to the Hispanic 
community in the US. 
With the completion of the launch of 
the Bangladesh service, the Group’s 
marketing effort is now in full swing. 
The next launch will be for the Filipino 
community and further announcements 
will be made at the appropriate time.
The Group’s momentum from 2013 has 
been continued into 2014 and revenue 
for the first three months of 2014 was 
£2.0 million (unaudited) representing 
an improvement of over 600% on the 
same period in 2013. 
This period is marginally below the 
levels of revenue earned in the fourth 
quarter in 2013. However that period 
benefitted from an enhanced festive 
season peak period during December. 
As a consequence of the continuing 
strong billings in the first quarter of 
2014, trade receivables have increased 
further since the year end. The Board 
remain confident in the payment 
arrangements that are already in 
place. The Group’s largest customer, PT 
Nextnation Prisma has fully adhered to 
the payment plan entered into in 2013 
and the original £2.4 million receivable 
has now been reduced to £1.8 million as 
at 31 March 2014. 
A new payment plan has been agreed 
with PT Nextnation Prisma to settle 
the 2013 receivable by June 2016. 
The 2014 billings will be paid on a 
prompter basis.
The general industry wide 
developments continue to drive the 
progress of SyQic’s service, as “all 
you can eat” data plans become 
widespread, growing international 
migration and the consumer’s appetite 
to consume video on mobile devices 
continues to grow. 
Given this environment and the 
growing market that it is creating, the 
Board is pleased to look to the future 
with increased confidence.
Jamal Hassim
Group Chief Executive Officer
18 June 2014
The Group’s momentum from 2013 has been continued into 2014 and 
revenue for the first three months of 2014 was £2.0 million (unaudited) 
representing an improvement of over 600% on the same period in 2013. 
