 02 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014
Overview
After a positive start to the year, the European economy 
faltered causing demand to weaken during the second half. 
In Asia, we saw the opposite, with a more intense competitive 
environment putting pressure on nitrile margins during the 
first half of the year, but an improving position during the 
second half. In the final two months, we saw a substantial 
decline in our raw material costs as the price of oil fell and 
these movements are expected to have some benefit on 
the performance of the Group in 2015.
In the context of this challenging macro-economic 
environment, the Group’s underlying volumes in 2014 
remained in line with 2013. As I wrote last year, Synthomer 
has continued to demonstrate its resilience, and focus on 
cost control, product innovation, research and development 
and capacity expansions in emerging markets.
Full year performance
Underlying Group total sales declined 6.1% to £990.5 million 
(2013 £1,054.9 million), although, on a constant currency 
basis, sales reduced by 2.0%, on underlying volume in line 
with the prior year. 
Underlying Group operating profit for the year was 
£96.5 million, down 7.9% (2013 £104.8 million). This was 
partly due to the weakening of the Euro that impacted 
operating profits in our European and North American (ENA) 
business by £3.4 million. On a constant currency basis, profit 
was down by 3.4%, mainly due to the lower margin issues 
we had in nitrile in our Asia and ROW business (ARW) in 
the first half.
Underlying Group profit before tax was £86.0 million 
(2013 £90.1 million), a decline of 4.6%, whilst earnings 
per share at 19.5p (2013 20.7p) were down by 5.8%. 
After deducting special items, IFRS profit before tax 
was £53.8 million (2013 £59.1 million).
Strategy
Our strategy remains unchanged and we continue to focus 
on delivering growth through geographic expansion in 
emerging markets, where mega-trends, such as population 
growth, urbanisation and increasing wealth, are driving 
demand for our products. In these high-growth regions, 
we are able to leverage our European ‘Centres of Excellence’ 
in leading technology, R&D and manufacturing capability 
to give us a strong competitive advantage. We have started 
to see the results of the operational efficiency programme 
we began during 2014 in Europe, and we anticipate this 
will be rolled out into key facilities in Asia later in 2015.
Additionally, as part of this strategy, we continue to look 
for further investment opportunities to expand our footprint 
in Asia.
Investment
Synthomer continues to be a highly cash generative business, 
giving us the means to invest in future growth. During the 
year, we commissioned a new 28 kte dispersion line in our 
Saudi Arabian plant, and we completed the upgrade of one 
of our German plants to allow us to produce our bio-latex 
products for the paper industry. Our investment in R&D 
continues to benefit the business, with 16% of 2014 sales 
coming from products developed in the last five years, and  
a further seven patent application filings during the year.
Balance sheet
Net debt, at £112.1 million, was £21.5 million lower than the 
start of the year. This represents a net borrowing to EBITDA 
ratio of less than one times, which the Board considers to 
be at the lower end of our target leverage position.
Dividend
The Board has recommended an increased final ordinary 
dividend of 4.8p per share, making a total ordinary dividend 
for the year of 7.8p. The full year ordinary dividend represents 
an increase of 30% over the previous year, and a dividend 
cover of 2.5 times, in line with the policy we announced with 
our interim results.
In the interim results, we also set out our new framework for 
balance sheet management, and consistent with that, I am 
also pleased to announce that the Board recommends a 
special dividend of 7.8p per share, bringing the total dividend 
for the year to 15.6p.
Chairman’s statement Overview
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 03
Safety, health and environment
The Group is committed to the continuous improvement 
of its performance in respect of safety, health and the 
environment. I am pleased that we have been able to improve 
our safety record yet again and reduce our greenhouse gas 
emissions. Continuous improvement of our safety, health 
and environmental performance remains a key priority for 
the Group going forward. 
Our people
One of the keys to our continuing success is our people. 
This year the Group introduced a ‘Core Values’ programme 
that defines the qualities and characteristics that we would 
like to see in ourselves, our colleagues and our business. 
These core values have at their foundation safety, health 
and environment and will be an important element in defining 
the Group and its ongoing success. I would like to thank 
our people for the positive way they have embraced this 
programme and for their support and hard work during 2014.
Board composition
I am delighted that Calum MacLean has joined as CEO 
just after the year end. He was previously at INEOS where 
he held a number of senior roles since 1998, most recently 
as Board Director INEOS Group and Chairman Styrolution 
& Petroineos. He has succeeded Adrian Whitfield who has, 
over the last eight years transformed the Group from a 
diverse chemical conglomerate into the focused aqueous 
polymer business that you see today. I would like to thank 
Adrian for his enormous contribution to the Group, and, on 
behalf of the Board and the Group, wish him every success 
for the future.
As previously announced, David Blackwood, Chief Financial 
Officer for the past seven years, advised the Board in 
December of his intention to retire from the Company during 
2015. Similarly, after eight years as a non-executive Director, 
Chairing the Audit Committee and more recently fulfilling the 
role of Senior Independent Director, Jez Maiden has 
indicated that he will not be standing for re-election at the 
2015 AGM. Searches for suitable successors for both 
positions are well advanced. There will be other opportunities 
to thank both David and Jez for their outstanding 
contributions to Synthomer but I would like to record my 
personal thanks to all three departing Board colleagues, 
Adrian, David and Jez, for their support and hard work over 
many years.
Outlook
We remain cautious on the European economy and its 
impact on demand, but some benefit from lower raw material 
prices may help offset any volume weakness. However, 
the weakness of the Euro, will affect the translation of our 
European business results. In Asia, we expect to see an 
improved performance from nitrile given the continuing 
tightening in the supply demand position and improving 
margins. Overall, the Board is confident the Group is well 
positioned for future growth.
Neil Johnson
Chairman
25 February 2014
