 12 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014
We continue to invest in our business, with the commissioning 
of a new 28 kte production line in our Saudi plant, which 
has taken the name plate capacity of the plant to 100 ktes. 
We also completed the upgrade of one of our German SBR 
plants to allow us to produce our bio-latex for the paper 
industry, which we had previously introduced into our Oulu 
plant in Finland. This will allow us to move almost half of our 
paper latex sales to the new bio-latex grade – and we expect 
to be at this run rate by the end of 2015.
Our Oulu plant in Finland was a 50/50 joint venture. In 
October 2014, we acquired the remaining 50 per cent to 
make the business a wholly-owned subsidiary.
We continue to invest in our people and, during 2014, we 
have engaged in a number of development programmes 
to support our staff and our business. These programmes 
include the introduction of Synthomer ‘Core Values’. 
These core values have at their foundation safety, health 
and environment and will be an important element in defining 
the Group and its ongoing success.
After a reasonably benign year for raw materials in 2013, 
2014 saw some substantial movements. Vinyl Acetate 
monomer spiked severely mid-year, and all monomers 
declined sharply towards the end of the year due to falling 
oil prices and deteriorating supply demand positions for the 
producers of our core monomers, such as Butadiene and 
Styrene. Overall, these movements, were actively managed 
in our selling prices to customers.
 
Divisional performance
We report the performance of the Group as two segments: 
‘Europe and North America’ (ENA) and ‘Asia and Rest of 
World’ (ARW). 
The reported results are on an ‘origination basis’, meaning 
the segmental sales and operating profits are reported based 
on where the product is manufactured. In 2014, ENA 
accounted for 69% of Group sales and ARW for 31% of 
Group sales. As we export many specialty products from 
Europe to Asia, looking at sales on a destination basis, ENA 
comprises 62% of Group sales with ARW accounting for 
38%. Within the two segments, we split our sales and 
marketing activities into six areas which we refer to as 
strategic business units (SBUs). These comprise: ‘Paper’; 
‘Carpet, Compounds and Foam’ (CCF); ‘Construction and 
Coatings’ (CC); ‘Functional Polymers’ (FP); ‘Performance 
Polymers’ (PP) and ‘Health and Protection’ (HP) – which 
includes our Asian nitrile latex business.
Europe and North America (ENA)
Underlying performance 2014 2013
Sales (£m) 687.2 744.8
Operating profit (£m) 85.7 89.8
Volumes (ktes) 794.3 805.5
Having joined Synthomer as your Chief Executive Officer 
in January 2015, I have not led the business through the 
year under review. However, whilst the broader trading 
environment in both Europe and Asia has undoubtedly 
made it a difficult year, I believe that the Group’s robust 
performance in the current environment demonstrates 
its ongoing potential for future growth.
In my first few weeks, I have enjoyed exploring the business 
and listening to the views of my colleagues. I look forward 
to working closely with my new colleagues in the year ahead 
and taking Synthomer forward. 
Overview
2014 was another challenging year for the Group, with the 
absence of a sustained recovery in Europe and a tough 
competitive environment impacting margins in nitrile during 
the first half of the year. Underlying Group operating profit of 
£96.5 million was down 7.9% (3.4% on a constant currency 
basis) on prior year.
In the first half of 2014 we saw some encouraging signs 
in Europe with good underlying growth in our construction 
related markets, only to see the position reverse later in 
the year as the prospect of a European economic recovery 
fell away. In Asia, we had a disappointing start to the year 
as competitive pressure and overcapacity amongst our 
customers, the glove manufacturers, combined to put 
downward pressure on nitrile margins after we had seen 
improvements over the course of 2013. Encouragingly we 
saw nitrile margins improve again over the course of the 
second half of 2014 as the supply demand position for 
nitrile latex tightened.
Net of lower interest costs and a slightly higher tax rate, 
underlying earnings per share were down 5.8% at 19.5p 
(2013 20.7p).
Our rate of innovation is accelerating, with a total of seven 
patent filings in 2014. These patents covered not only 
extensions of our existing technology, but also included new 
processes and a new polymer composition patent. 
We have also had a record number of new product launches 
this year, with a total of 16 products coming to market. 
These include products designed to improve wood coatings 
and new nitrile latex grades for the thin walled glove market. 
We have a good pipeline of products in development for the 
coming years. New products launched in the last five years 
contributed over 16% of 2014 Group revenues, compared 
with 12% in 2013. We remain confident of being able to 
improve this percentage, and have a medium-term target 
for new products launched in the preceding five years to 
contribute 20% of annual group revenues.
Chief Executive Officer’s report Strategic report
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 13
Asia and Rest of World (ARW) 
Underlying performance 2014 2013
Sales (£m) 303.3 310.1
Operating profit (£m) 17.8 23.1
Volumes (ktes) 396.5 376.2
Operating profit in our ARW segment was £17.8 million, 
down £5.3 million (22.9%) compared with 2013 and down 
17% on a constant currency basis. Volumes have increased 
by 20.3 ktes (5.4%).
Nitrile volumes were ahead some 3% on 2013, with a 
noticeable strengthening in demand towards the end of 2014. 
Nitrile was impacted significantly in the first half of the year by 
intense competition and customer pressure due to excess 
glove manufacturing capacity. We recovered our margins in 
the second half with margins progressively strengthening, 
exiting the year ahead of 2013 average levels.
The ARW non-nitrile business has seen good demand with 
volumes up, though margin was slightly lower due to the 
competitive effects of new manufacturing capacity coming 
on line in Malaysia.
There has been a big focus on product development for the 
Asian coatings market, with the launch of a new vinylic based 
binder that gives formulating flexibility to optimise the cost/
performance balance. We have also extended our alkyd 
product line, with a product offering improved gloss retention 
to extend the lifetime of interior and exterior paints gloss finish 
coatings. Additionally, a number of other coatings products 
are in the initial commercialisation phase, for example, for 
use as concrete primer systems, premium interior paints and 
exterior coatings.
We launched two new nitrile grades towards the end of the 
year, which could create up to 50 ktes of new capacity 
compared to older grades due to their shorter 
manufacturing times.
In the Middle East, our new 28 kte line was commissioned, 
taking the site’s capacity to 100 ktes. We still anticipate 
strong nitrile growth going forward and are considering 
carefully the timing of new nitrile capacity expansion over 
and above that created by our recent product launches.
Calum MacLean
Chief Executive Officer
25 February 2015
Underlying operating profit in our ENA segment was down by 
4.6% year-on-year (0.7% down on a constant currency basis).
Aggregate volumes were 1.4% lower. This includes the full 
recognition of Synthomer Finland Oy (formerly Eka 
Synthomer Oy) from the acquisition date of our JV partner’s 
50% holding, and the effect of exiting 18 ktes of very low 
margin compound business during the year. Excluding these, 
volumes decreased by 0.8% in 2014 having been 2.6% 
ahead at the half year on the same basis.
The drop in demand in the second half reflected the general 
European economic climate and some destocking towards 
the end of the year, following a drop in the cost of raw 
materials and customers choosing to wait for prices to 
stabilise before rebuilding stocks. Overall, volumes in our 
main SBUs were broadly flat, other than Paper, where we 
are continuing to see a structural decline in this market.
We saw some margin erosion in 2013, reaching a low point 
as we exited that year. Margins recovered over the course 
of 2014, with average margins ahead of 2013, on a constant 
currency basis. Towards the end of 2014, margins were 
helped by declining raw material prices, though the benefit 
of this looking forward is likely to be modest. Margins were 
weaker in Paper, but improved in CCF, FP and CC.
There have been a number of product launches in ENA 
during the year. Our focus on high performance coatings 
applications has led to the introduction of binder systems for 
parquet flooring and exterior joinery applications. Also, the 
latest regulatory requirements have resulted in us launching 
new products into a number of markets, these include: a 
range of SBR latex for cement flexibilisation, a formaldehyde 
free non-woven binder and a flooring adhesive that meets 
the most stringent European regulations. We have also been 
able to use our proprietary acrylic technology in new cement 
membrane applications and introduce two new SBR 
products in the coated paper market, where we also saw 
further market uptake of our bio-polymer hybrid. The first 
half of the year saw the market introduction of our new 
Alcotex product for the PVC industry.
We have been progressing with our performance 
improvement programme for Europe, named ‘Synthomer 
2015’, which we announced with our 2013 results. This 
programme has reviewed aspects of our processes, energy 
efficiency and productivity, and established ways to optimise 
these across all functions. All the European plants have been 
reviewed during 2014 and areas for improvement have been 
identified. Our internal team is now spending time with each 
of the plants and working with them in order to implement 
planned improvements. We continue to expect efficiencies 
and savings of at least €10 million per annum, with some of 
those savings expected to crystallise in 2015. The costs of 
the project are still in line with our expectations of €15 million 
of which €5 million will be capital. We have recognised costs 
of €5.6 million (£4.5 million) in the year and these can be seen 
in the special items note of the 2014 financial statements. 14 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014
Growth 
Innovation
Excellence
Growth
Never stay still
Since the commissioning of our first NBR latex plant 
in Malaysia in 2000, we have moved from strength to 
strength in this area and continuously expanded and 
upgraded our facilities. 
In particular, our plant in Pasir Gudang, originally 
commissioned in 2009 with a capacity of 100 ktes 
per year has been developed into a world class 
facility, through substantial expansion and investment 
in 2012 and 2013. The site now features two 
additional reactor lines and production capacity that 
has increased to 160 ktes per year. Also as part of 
this investment, the facility was upgraded in order to 
produce our XSBR grades. 
Our commitment to growth and innovation never 
stops and we began preparing for the next generation 
of latices for the manufacture of protective gloves in 
2015 and beyond. The two new grades produced, 
‘Synthomer 6330’ and ‘Synthomer 6338’ can be 
formulated to allow low glove weight, with excellent 
tensile strength and elongation. ‘Synthomer 6338’ 
is our new flag-ship offering for ‘disposable’ protective 
gloves and was introduced to the market at the end 
of 2014. This new synthetic NBR latex product shows 
superior elastomeric performance and is targeted at 
the medical glove market where gloves need to 
provide good touch and feel. 
In creating these new grades, we also invested in new 
technology to produce our grades more effectively 
whilst at the same time reducing production time 
which allows greater capacity from the same 
production facilities. 
With quality and customer service at the forefront of 
our business we believe that these and future planned 
investments in product innovations and new technology 
will allow us to remain at the forefront of the industry.  Strategic report
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 15
Innovation
Innovation
Excellence
Growth
Global trends drive  
innovation in coatings 
Synthomer’s commercial and R&D teams continually 
monitor global trends and the impact that they may 
have on our markets. Two trends that have intersected 
that provided an opportunity for Synthomer to create 
new products are governmental regulations that 
require a move away from high emission solvent 
based paints and the growing use in building of 
wood, both as a construction material and in flooring. 
These trends are very noticeable in both Europe 
and Asia.
Synthomer has developed a new range of water-
based acrylic dispersions for use in interior and 
exterior wood coating products that combine high 
performance while meeting the latest emission 
regulations. Two products recently launched are:
•	 Plextol W 1078* which is designed as a stand-alone 
binder for parquet floor coatings. This pure acrylic 
emulsion helps achieve a high hardness and good 
chemical resistance for the final product whilst 
making it easier to apply, featuring faster drying 
time and reducing the level of solvent required. 
By using our innovative polymerisation technology, 
the binder can be formulated into high quality, 
speciality coatings, increasingly replacing solvent 
based ones; and 
•	 Plextol W 1080*, which is an acrylic emulsion for 
high performance exterior joinery coatings.  
This new polymer system allows a number of key 
performance criteria to be met simultaneously, 
notably allowing a coating to be flexible even in cold 
conditions and still providing good adhesion onto 
different types of woods. In addition, it is designed 
to provide a coating with the necessary properties 
to allow the coating to last for a long time even in 
challenging climatic conditions.
* Technical details of these products can be found on our website –  
www.synthomer.com
