 02 Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005
REVIEW
I am pleased to report that the Group
had a very successful year. We achieved
our principal financial, operational and
strategic objectives delivering organic
revenue growth and increased profitability.
We invested further in our personnel,
reseller channel, research and development
and marketing to further strengthen our
core product offering and expand our global
footprint. Operationally the focus was on
the further integration of the key strategic
acquisitions made in 2003 and 2004. We
have consolidated our competitive position
and built on our commercial and financial
success through the continued investment
in the development of a technology
framework through which we enhance
and extend our suite of financial and
performance management solutions. 
The acquisition programme commenced in
the final quarter of 2003 with the purchase
of MIS AG, a leading business intelligence
software company and Foundation Systems
Limited, a leading reseller of SunSystems
and other third party software. This was
followed in 2004 with the acquisitions of
the Vision suite of software from Lasata
Pty, the ncSoft brand of business software
and a leading accounting and business
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
BOB MORTON
CHAIRMAN
SUMMARY OF 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 Delivered organic revenue growth
 Financial success through continued investment
 The Group is financially strong
 Dividend increased by 25%
 The Board is optimistic for a successful 2006 Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005 03
software distributor in Ireland, subsequently
renamed Systems Union (Ireland) Limited.
I am pleased to report that all of these
businesses have been successfully
rationalised and incorporated into the
Group, from a technical, commercial and
organisational perspective. During 2005
we bought MIS Spain SL and acquired
a reseller business operating in several
countries in the Far East.
The dimension and dynamics of the business
have changed significantly, notably with
the acquisition of MIS AG, which I am now
pleased to report is 100 per cent owned by
the Group. This enables us to aggressively
expand and develop our solution portfolio,
operating in a more diverse and enlarged
market space. We are ideally positioned to
take full advantage of the significant growth
in the business intelligence software market
and expect that 2006 will be another year 
of growth. 
The Group is financially strong with
£24 million in cash; £9 million net cash
balances after deduction of £15 million
medium-term acquisition finance. This,
together with the increase in the Group’s
capital value, has significantly increased 
our ability to make further acquisitions.
RESULTS
Revenues have increased by 9 per cent 
to £113.4 million (2004: £104.2 million) and
EBITDA margins widened from 13.6 per
cent to 14.6 per cent.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortisation grew by 16 per cent to
£16.5 million (2004: £14.2 million) and adjusted
diluted earnings per share improved to 12.2p
(2004: 11.0p). The underlying strength is
demonstrated by our positive operating cash
flow with £13.5 million (2004: £12.1 million)
being generated during the year.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 1.75p per share resulting in a total dividend
for the year of 2.5p per share (2004: 2.0p per
share), an increase of 25 per cent. The final
dividend will be paid on 23 May 2006 to
shareholders on the register at the close
of business on 21 April 2006.
STAFF
A global software business recognises
the changing needs of customers, adapts
to technology changes and delivers the
benefits of these changes to its customers.
Our management and staff continued to do
this in 2005 and the directors recognise,
and thank them for, their efforts.
OUTLOOK
In view of the strong financial performance,
improved sales pipeline and enhanced
solution portfolio, the Board is optimistic 
for a successful 2006. 
BOB MORTON
Chairman
27 February 2006
“The Group had a very successful year. We achieved our
principal financial, operational and strategic objectives
delivering organic revenue growth and increased profitability.
We invested further in our personnel, reseller channel, research
and development and marketing to further strengthen our core
product offering and expand our global footprint.”
