 2002 was undoubtedly a difficult year for the IT industry and the global economy in general. For Systems
Union, this was reflected in overall revenue being 5 per cent less than the previous year. Nevertheless,
we believe that our revenue performance is better than much of the global IT sector.
With this backdrop, I am delighted to be able to announce significantly improved results for the Group.
Highlights for the year included:
■ Adjusted earnings per share grew by 87 per cent to 7.1p (2001: 3.8p)
■ Basic earnings per share rose by 90 per cent to 3.8p (2001: 2.0p)
■ EBITDA grew by 68 per cent to £8.7 million (2001: £5.1 million)
■ Profit before tax increased by 97 per cent to £4.3 million (2001: £2.2 million)
■ Fifth consecutive half-yearly increase in profitability
■ EBITDA per employee increased by 71 per cent to £11,300 (2001: £6,600)
■ Cash and investments of £25 million and no debt
■ The Company will pay dividends from future profits
These achievements reflect the considerable efforts and resolve of the management team and staff
members. This has ensured that the Group’s financial well-being has been strengthened. At the same
time as maintaining our significant investment in research & development (R&D), we have continued
to improve profitability in an environment where many companies have reported steep falls in earnings. 
Growth strategy
Far more important than the past is what are we going to do for the future. Systems Union Group plc
now has a proven track record of improving financial performance; it is apparent, however, that
2003 will undoubtedly present fresh challenges. Despite this, we are encouraged by the start to the
current year.
The Group is now financially strong, the cost base is lower and the business opportunity has improved.
We believe that we are now in a position to capitalise on this financial strength to derive significant
synergistic benefits from acquisitions and to achieve further growth. Accordingly, we are more optimistic
than we were this time last year.
Even though we have reported improved profitability for 2002, our revenues declined slightly. It is therefore
a key essential that the Group focuses on growth in 2003 and our plans are to return to and improve
on income levels of 2001.
We will continue to focus on improving margin on sales above the 12 per cent achieved in 2002.
Prudent cost management remains a priority. We shall, however, continue our investment in marketing
to drive top-line growth, and in R&D to develop our new generation of products. This includes
SunSystems and Pegasus R&D facilities working on shared core architecture.
Systems Union and its operating businesses, SunSystems, Pegasus and REDtechnology, are very much
in proactive mode and we believe that the overall strategy will bring considerable shareholder value for
the future. 
The single-ledger, real-time, multi-currency, multi-lingual, multi-GAAP, open platform architecture,
low risk and low total-cost-of-ownership approach will continue to give enormous strength for
SunSystems and its extensive worldwide customer base.
In the medium-term it is our intention to increase our volume of business considerably on a profitable
basis as we pursue our goal to become the leading mid-tier global financial and business management
solutions provider. To achieve this strategy we will pursue the following actions:
■ Increase our global footprint. The existing network is considerable with directly owned offices and
channel partners across 76 countries, including new offices in Shanghai and Dubai. We will consider
opening additional offices and recruit new channel partners.
■ Extend our worldwide vertical markets, initially focusing on hotels, insurance, aid agencies and oil & gas.
■ Expand our global network of vertical software partners (VSPs) with SunSystems embedded as the
financial engine in third party applications.
■ Maintain the pre-eminence of our core financial products as the key ingredients of our global
solutions offerings.
06 Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive
Officer’s Review 
Paul Coleman
Chief Executive Officer Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 07
Broadwater is a respected brand name within the hospitality industry and is well known for its prime locations, unique architectural
styles and luxury furniture and fittings. Its hotels, resorts and apartments are located in Perth and elsewhere in Western Australia
and, by the end of 2004, it will have 8 high-quality properties in its portfolio.
Since the company has significant growth plans, its financial & business management system had to be flexible and scalable to meet
future needs. The implementation of a centralised system was specified to handle each site uniquely but still provide standardised
reporting. The company previously used a number of different front-of-house systems – which would be retained – and various
back-of-house modules, none of which provided the reporting and analysis needed.
Prior to the installation of SunSystems by Eclipse Computing Australia, the production of monthly owners’ statements was a whole
day affair, involving re-keying large quantities of data with the very real possibility of errors.
Alex Farrell, Broadwater’s Group financial controller, said: “With the power of SunSystems, this process now takes no time at all.
It’s a huge benefit and has really improved month-end morale. Instead of the business forcing the processing methodology, SunSystems
handles the workings of the individual businesses on a day-to-day basis and gives the accounting team exposure to all parts of our
businesses instead of just specialising in one.”
Case Study
Hotels –
Broadwater
1,000 hotels worldwide use SunSystems Growth strategy (continued)
■ Deliver additional complementary products to satisfy the needs of our customers’ directors
around the boardroom table. In 2002, we delivered SunSystems Analytics (world-class reporting
and information delivery solutions), SunSystems PSA (extended project accounting), SunSystems
i2i Purchase Requisitioning (web-enabled), SunSystems Collect (cash management) and
SunSystems Payroll.
■ Establish the office in Shanghai with R&D and sales capabilities. R&D will be based on 2 pivots
to cover our global requirements. This new office in China will enable the Group to defray and
reduce some of its cost, whilst also providing improved localised products for the Asia-Pacific region.
This is particularly exciting, not only in terms of R&D, but also with the market opportunities opening
up through China’s recent membership of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Beijing
Olympics 2008 and Expo 2010. Shanghai is the commercial capital of China and one of the largest
cities in the world (with 17 million people). With over 2,000 SunSystems sites in China already,
we are well placed to take advantage of this major market opportunity.
■ Roll out Pegasus software globally under the SunSystems branding, including local language versions.
■ Retain platform independence in our R&D strategy. We have already embarked upon a new
technology framework based on Java II Enterprise Edition (J2EE).
■ Enhance our communication systems globally, to allow our 2 SunSystems R&D centres, Farnborough
and Shanghai, to provide support and services for the rest of the Group, our customers and the
distribution network.
■ Pursue acquisition opportunities for customer base, for product and services (bringing them into our
R&D framework), and for advanced technology.
■ Support our channel partners by providing enriched product offerings to enable greater growth.
Financial review
The £3.5 million (68 per cent) improvement in EBITDA reflects the success of management’s focus
on operational efficiency even though total revenues declined. In short, cost reductions significantly
outweighed a decrease in income.
Group turnover of £74.6 million was 4.8 per cent lower than 2001. Licence revenues declined by
£4.9 million and professional services by £3.1 million, reductions of 16 per cent. Recurring maintenance
revenue, however, improved by £4.2 million, an increase of 15 per cent. This improvement reflects
the increase to maintenance charges introduced in January 2002. As a result, recurring maintenance
income represented 42.5 per cent of revenue, compared to 35.1 per cent previously. Whilst we were
not immune from the downward pressures on global software licence and professional service income,
we believe that we outperformed much of the IT sector.
Total costs reduced by 10 per cent to £66.0 million. These improvements in efficiency and a focus on cost
control and profitability per head resulted in the EBITDA margin on sales increasing to 12 per cent for the
year from 7 per cent in 2001. We expect this performance measure to show further improvement in 2003.
The Group’s low tax rate reflects the benefit of corporate tax losses brought forward. We implemented
FRS 19 with effect from the beginning of 2002 and the accounts include a prior year adjustment to
restate the opening position on the new basis under that standard.
Cash balances at 31 December 2002 were £18.9 million. Cash flow from operating activities improved
by 48 per cent to £5.1 million, which reflects our focus on cash collections. Days’ sales outstanding
(DSOs) for the Group are 57 days. Our strong cash position allowed us to renegotiate an outstanding
commitment at a substantial early settlement discount. In addition, £1.3 million was paid in January
2002 to acquire the global exclusivity rights for SunSystems Vision, our analytics tool, together with
existing maintenance contracts. The Group remains debt-free with net current assets of £24.9 million,
an improvement of £7.9 million over last year. In addition, the Group continues to hold an investment
in 9 million of its own shares, which are carried at £6.3 million.
In October 2002, the High Court approved the capital reduction proposals that had been passed
by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 23 September 2002. The deficit on the
Company’s profit & loss account has been eradicated thereby enabling the payment of dividends
from future profits.
08 Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive
Officer’s Review  Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 09
CitiStreet currently has over 3,500 employees and is one of the largest global benefits services firms in the world, providing an array
of products and services for the retirement and employee benefit plans of corporate, government, healthcare and non-profit organisations.
CitiStreet is owned and operated as a joint partnership between New York-based Citigroup and Boston-based State Street Corp.
CitiStreet has 3 geographically dispersed offices within the US, with each office providing a specific ‘level of specialisation’ in retirement
products and services. As a result, the financial management challenges facing CitiStreet stemmed from its need to manage the business
data from each office collectively, while still maintaining a certain degree of autonomy and flexibility for each division.
CitiStreet selected and deployed SunSystems to address this need for a number of reasons, including: SunSystems’ ability to operate
in a centralised environment, SunSystems’ extensive reporting capabilities, consolidation capabilities and the low risk factor associated
with the solution.
“All in all I think we came in on time and on budget … their people laid it out straight from the very beginning of the project.
We knew exactly who needed to do what and when they needed to do it. SunSystems have been very responsible and
very supportive as an organisation,” said Bill Madden, assistant vice president of CitiStreet.
Case Study
Insurance –
CitiStreet
400 insurance company sites
in 62 countries use SunSystems Operational review
SunSystems
The company competes with, and regularly beats, large enterprise resource planning (ERP) vendors,
a reflection that many customers prefer best-of-breed solutions to all-embracing systems. This preference
for collaborative business, domain-focused expertise and web-enabled architecture matches SunSystems’
product strategy and the ERPII model defined by leading industry analyst, Gartner Group.
Central to the company’s ambitions is our goal to become the leading mid-market ERPII vendor
in our chosen markets. We will continue to deliver world-class products to our customers and their
associated companies. Enhanced ‘solution selling’ training, both internally and for channel partners,
has focused the team on identifying and satisfying customer needs.
During the year, several significant successes demonstrated the merits of our strategy. Willis Group,
a leading global insurance broker, signed a £6 million deal in April greatly extending its existing
SunSystems usage. A partnership with Micros Systems Inc, world-leader in front-office systems for hotels,
was announced in August and covers the development and distribution of MICROS-Fidelio Financials
powered by SunSystems.
A partnership with Brazilian-based ITG (Informação Tecnologia e Gerência s/c) strengthened the
company’s market leadership position for insurance industry solutions in major parts of Latin America
and Asia-Pacific. Other customers include AGF (Allianz), Axis Specialty, Canada Life, CitiStreet, MAPFRE,
MetLife and Mutual Risk Management (MRM).
In other sectors, new SunSystems users include Octopus Cards, operator of an electronic payment
system in Hong Kong; 21ViaNet China, the largest professional internet data centre in China; Air BP,
a significant global business unit of the BP Group; Standard Chartered, the world’s leading emerging
markets bank; and Pfizer Inc, one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies which will use
SunSystems at 60 locations worldwide.
10 Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive
Officer’s Review
Financial review (continued)
Summary of results
2002 2001
£000 £000
Turnover by type
Licence 26,690 31,581 
Maintenance 31,716 27,487 
Services 16,225 19,317 
Total 74,631 78,385 
Turnover by location
– EMEA 37,428 37,417
– The Americas 12,993 16,173
– Asia-Pacific 16,072 16,482
SunSystems 66,493 70,072
Pegasus Software 7,254 7,481
REDtechnology 884 832
Total 74,631 78,385
EBITDA before R&D 19,211 17,201
R&D (10,544) (12,052)
EBITDA 8,667 5,149
Profit on disposal of properties — 1,586
Depreciation (983) (1,385)
Amortisation (3,924) (3,590)
Operating profit 3,760 1,760
Net interest receivable 556 429
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 4,316 2,189
Taxation on ordinary activities (383) (146)
Profit for the financial year 3,933 2,043
Earnings per share (note 8)
– basic 3.8p 2.0p
– diluted 3.7p 1.9p
Adjusted earnings per share (note 8)
– basic 7.2p 3.9p
– diluted 7.1p 3.8p Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 11
Voluntary Services Overseas (VSO) is an international development charity that works through a network of over 29,000 global
volunteers, enabling people to share their skills, knowledge and experience to improve the lives of local communities in 71 of the
world’s poorest countries.
When VSO was looking for an accounting solution, it sought one that would enable it to consolidate its business and financial information
more efficiently at month-end. It was also essential that the solution was easy to use, could be rapidly implemented across the many
regions in which VSO operates and could manage the multi-currency requirements of the organisation with minimal support.
SunSystems with its uniform, integrated ledger, multi-currency capabilities and real-time analytics proved to be the ideal solution for VSO.
The solution has been deployed across 38 remote locations throughout Africa and Asia with the central office in the UK retaining control
and having real-time access to business and financial information generated by all the local offices.
John Merchant, director of resources at VSO, commented: “SunSystems was chosen after consultation with Tate Bramald because
it handles multi-currency effectively and because we had a positive experience of using it at our London headquarters. SunSystems has
improved VSO’s handling of accounts worldwide and the lack of complaints or difficulties gives us confidence that the roll out
has been very successful for all staff concerned.”
Case Study
Aid agencies –
Voluntary Services
Overseas
SunSystems is used in 194 countries Operational review (continued)
SunSystems (continued)
A series of launches during the year of complementary products, modules and alliances underscores
the continuing enhancement by the company of its solutions offerings. For example, SunSystems Academy
produces and administers computer-based training (CBT) programmes that provide flexible, cost effective
means for users to update and maintain their skills. In October 2002, the organisation of scheduled
classroom-based training courses was contracted to Numerica Group plc, a long-term user of SunSystems.
Within EMEA, sales revenues are split evenly between direct sales from the in-house account team and
indirect sales through channel partners. In Asia-Pacific, the greater proportion is through indirect sales,
whereas in The Americas, direct sales predominate.
The opening of a new office in Dubai is a major step forward. The second largest emirate has doubled
its overseas trade since 1989, and its tourist and hotel market is expected to show considerable growth
in the near-term. This makes the area ideal for SunSystems’ hospitality experience.
Research & development
We have continued to make investment in R&D a priority to maintain the flow of state-of-the-art
products. The 175 strong team at Farnborough has consistently met deadlines with a range of new
offerings and enhancements.
The multi-lingual capability of our products is a major reason why customers choose our software,
with SunSystems 4 now available in 30 languages. In 2002, Brazilian-Portuguese and Italian were
launched for SunSystems 5, together with the double-byte languages of Japanese and simplified
Chinese. In keeping with our open platform policy, SunSystems 5 became available on Oracle NT.
In August, the release of SunSystems 5.1.4 added various significant enhancements, including order
fulfilment, bank interface, new Report Server functionality and improved user interfaces.
SunSystems i2i Purchase Requisitioning was released during the year. This fully web-enabled, J2EE product
uses either the Internet or intranets for speed of operation and deployment. The same basic product
set can be used with either SunSystems 4 or SunSystems 5.
The continuing investment in SunSystems 4 has yielded enhanced user interfaces as well as withholding
tax and payment preview additions, which are important in certain GAAP systems. The product
is extremely stable and continues to be an important part of the SunSystems range.
Over 50 people are planned to be employed by the end of 2003 at the Shanghai R&D centre which,
together with a dozen employees for sales, marketing and operations, will make the location the second
largest SunSystems office after Farnborough. The centre will focus on developing products using the
latest technology such as XML, Java, J2EE and Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) to ensure that we maintain
our leading position.
In addition, a major programme of development, known as ‘Evolution’, is now underway. This framework
is central to the future product strategy of the company, and will mean that SunSystems retains its
place as a leading-edge software solution. The programme will use the latest technology and techniques
and provide maximum agility to meet the company’s development needs.
Support & services
During the year, the company extensively enhanced its help-desk support, particularly in EMEA and
The Americas with English-language calls being handled at Farnborough. This has given improved and
consistent levels of service with customer feedback revealing a high degree of satisfaction.
Plans have been formulated to deliver more extensive global support coverage for contracted
customers, including other languages and other geographic areas, with automated routing of phone
calls from customers. As a first step, a global customer database is being rolled out to unite sales &
marketing activities, help-desk support and customer administration.
SunSystems PSA, the project accounting offering, is now fully used by our professional services teams
to record time and billing of the consultants who install and configure SunSystems at customer premises.
This product, which will continue to be rolled out across the world, has significantly improved billing
and cash collection, thereby reducing DSOs.
Pegasus Software
Pegasus made excellent progress during the year with Opera II sales up 85 per cent on the previous year
and now firmly established as the flagship product for the company. During the year, significant
improvements were incorporated within the product enabling it to maintain the market leadership position
previously held by Opera I. Reseller channel activities substantially increased with over 2,000 Opera II
sites installed during the last 2 years. Additional channel partners were recruited in the UK, and notably
the first channel partner appointed in New Zealand has already made some significant sales.
The product offering during the year was substantially improved by the introduction of Opera XRL
reporting module. Pegasus Payroll continued to be an important part of the business with over 16,000
sites in the UK. Pegasus was the first company to achieve Inland Revenue recognition for the Internet
Service PAYE end of year submission of P14 and P35 forms.
12 Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive
Officer’s Review  Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 13
Pegasus was the first company
to achieve UK Inland Revenue
eSubmission approval
Founded in 1980, Corinthian Television (CTV) began as a mobile editing company and was formerly part of the Carlton
Communications Group. It has now grown into an award-winning television facilities company, with studios, transmission, multi-media
and post-production, based in London. CTV is owned by its management and JFP Limited (the investment arm of the Telstar Group). 
Sean Radcliffe, financial controller at CTV, commented: “As our business has expanded, we recognised a need for a comprehensive
business and financial solution that would enable our staff to access vital management information from any of our locations at any
time. In association with the value-added-reseller Intsys UK, we found the solution to our needs in Opera II from Pegasus.”
CTV is at the forefront of technology and runs Opera II remotely across servers in its different locations using an ADSL (asymmetric
digital subscriber line) connection. As a result, CTV staff not only benefit from the rapid delivery of business critical information
wherever they are based, but also from enterprise-wide access to core financial, sales and purchasing management functionality.
Opera II also delivers strong reporting and analytical functionality, which enables timely reporting and enhanced decision-making,
ensuring CTV sustains its competitive advantage.
Case Study
Pegasus Software –
Corinthian
Television Operational review (continued)
Pegasus Software (continued)
During the year, Pegasus launched Capital Community, which has resulted in over 2,500 downloads
from the Internet to obtain free software. The Capital product is aimed at smaller businesses and
increasing exposure is part of our longer-term strategy to grow our customer base.
Significant improvements have been made with the introduction of new technology and procedures,
which greatly improve efficiency and the quality of services in our support services centre. Resellers
have been invited to participate in a new service level agreement (SLA) scheme. This enables the
company to focus its support activities more accurately, improve the quality of support to its resellers,
and has greatly reduced support call volumes. This initiative has been reinforced by the investment in
a web-enabled call logging system and those resellers that are part of the SLA scheme are able to post
requests for support directly through a secure and private extranet connection. This initiative is being
extended to other parts of the Pegasus services department.
The company has also re-focused its R&D and quality control resources into 2 separate business units:
new product development and the maintenance of existing products. A direct result of this has positively
impacted on the ability of the company to respond to technical support queries from its resellers and
customers and to improve greatly its ability to service its reseller network. The combination of the
improved product performance and initiatives introduced within the support and development
environment enabled the company to enhance its service commitments and overall profitability.
Pegasus is now a much transformed business and an important member of the Systems Union group
of companies.
REDtechnology.com
A strong recurring revenue stream underpinned an improved performance in 2002 from REDtechnology,
previously know as Systems Union eBusiness Solutions. The business combines technical expertise with
creativity in a variety of Internet, intranet and extranet projects for its customers.
REDtechnology also works with Systems Union sister companies. Developments include the creation
of TradeIT, an integrated web-trading system for Pegasus Opera users, and extensive upgrades
of SunSystems’ own websites.
REDtechnology is a profitable dot.com business.
Staff
The single greatest strength of the Group is the continuing unity of thought and commitment of all
our people. Every office has long-serving, loyal and dedicated personnel. They are each a vital member
of the Systems Union HomeTeam. 
Staff members have a vested interest in the prosperity of the Group through membership of a share
option scheme, which covers 75 per cent of staff, and performance-related incentives that reward
achievement. If we continue to deliver our agenda I would hope to see staff benefit from an uplift
in the share price and therefore the value of their options.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank all members of the HomeTeam for their hard work
and contribution. 
The future
In a very difficult trading environment, the Group has significantly increased its EBITDA, PBT and EPS.
We have a very clear, achievable agenda and are committed to growth, organically and through
strategic acquisition. Change will continue at Systems Union and we intend taking our opportunities,
proactively and with purpose. We look forward, with refreshed vigour and enthusiasm, to the
challenges ahead. 
Paul Coleman
Chief Executive Officer
14 Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive
Officer’s Review  Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 15
80,000 users of Pegasus Opera
and Opera II
BoysStuff was founded in 1997 as a specialist provider of innovative gadgets and gifts. Although the company had had notable
successes using traditional catalogue marketing, it recognised the need for a compelling website and an effective e-business solution
that would enable customers to make purchases and payments online. It sought a specialist partner and, following extensive
evaluation, REDtechnology was selected to design and develop this e-business solution. 
The team at REDtechnology and BoysStuff worked closely together to integrate complex front and back-end systems. The result
has been the development of a unique solution that enables customers to search effectively for a product, obtain stock and delivery
availability and place orders online.
REDtechnology monitors and manages the web system from its resilient and secure data centre in London, leaving BoysStuff to focus
on its business and customers.
Mav Perivolaris, IT director at BoysStuff, commented: “REDtechnology’s expertise ensures that our web system is available and performing
to peak efficiency and effectiveness 24 x 7. Our business depends on this level of service assurance from REDtechnology and we continue
to be delighted with its commitment to service and experience in fine-tuning our systems to deliver optimum performance.”
Case Study
REDtechnology – 
BoysStuff.co.uk
