 2009/10 was another good year across the System C Group
oP eRAt In G HIGHLIGHt S o F t He ye AR
05
annual report and financial statements 2010 | System C
•	 Our 	major	investment 	in	next-generat ion 	Medway	
pr oducts 	is 	being	 r ewar ded.	The 	Gr oup	now	has	a 	
rich	suite	of 	heal t h 	and	social	car e	pr oducts 	which	
is	at tract ing	significant 	customer	inter est	and 	key	
strategic	contract	wins.	Gr oup	pr oduct	r evenues 	
incr eased	by 	215%	over	t he	year	to	£20.6m,	of	which 	
£13.9m	 was	at tributable	to	 or ganic	gr owt h.		
•	 Our 	r eputat ion 	for 	deploying	systems	–	bot h	our	
own	and	systems 	fr om	t hir d	part ies	–	on	t ime	and 	to	
budget	led 	to	str ong	demand	for	our	services 	work	
fr om	exist ing 	and	new	cl ients.		 Services	r evenues	
incr eased	by 	16% 	over	t he	year	to	£17.8m,	of	which	
£17.6m	 was	at tributable	to	 or ganic	gr owt h.		
•	 The	 Gr oup’ s 	r eputat ion	 for	advanced	technology	and	
successful 	 deployments	 was	 furt her	 enhanced 	 when 	 it	
was 	 named 	 world-wide 	 winner	 of	 t he	 pr est igious 	 2010	
Micr osoft	 Partner	 of	t he	 Y ear 	awar d 	in	t he	 category	
‘Publ ic	Sector	Heal t h 	 Partner’.	System	C 	won	 t he	
awar d	 for	its	 Cl inical 	 Dashboar d	 pr oducts,	developed	
and	implemented	over 	t he	 course	of 	t he	 year	 in 	 over	
a	dozen	 NHS	T rusts.		
•	 In 	 July 	 2009, 	 System 	 C 	 acquir ed 	 Liquid logic 	 Limited	
to 	 cr eate 	 t he 	 UK’ s 	 first 	 major 	 heal t h 	 and 	 social 	 services	
suppl ier . 	 The 	 two 	 companies 	 have 	 started 	 integrat ing	
pr oducts 	 and 	 have 	 pr oduced 	 t he 	 UK’ s 	 first 	 heal t h 	 and	
social 	 car e 	 l ink 	 under 	 t he 	 NHS 	 Connect ing 	 for 	 Heal t h’ s	
new 	 standar ds 	 for 	 systems 	 integrat ion. 	 Since 	 t he 	 year -
end, 	 t he 	 new 	 Government 	 has 	 announced 	 t hat 	 it 	 wil l	
be 	 going 	 out 	 to 	 consul tat ion 	 on 	 how 	 best 	 to 	 integrate	
heal t h 	 and 	 social 	 car e. 	 System 	 C 	 is 	 uniquely 	 placed 	 t o	
meet 	 t his 	 nat ional 	 drive 	 for 	 high 	 qual ity 	 integrated 	 car e.
