 System C | annual report and financial statements 2008 6
Building on its reputation as a premier healthcare 
IT services Group, System C has this year achieved 
full geographical coverage in England and increased 
its services revenues by 23%. The Group now has a 
substantial presence across all five English National 
Programme clusters. 
At the same time, System C has continued to make 
excellent progress in product development and delivery, 
with Product revenues up 66% on 2007. The Group 
successfully deployed its MedWay Patient Administration 
and Electronic Patient Record System (“PAS/EPR”) in 
the Isle of Man. The development team also completed 
the process of converting most of the MedWay suite 
of software into Microsoft’s latest .net technology, 
generating new product sales opportunities in the UK 
and overseas.        
Acquisitions 
During the year we acquired two businesses, IQ Systems 
Services Ltd and Care Records Ltd, and successfully 
integrated them into the System C Group. These 
strategic acquisitions brought with them new products, 
new clients and high calibre teams, and accelerated the 
Group’s expansion into the specialist clinical systems and 
the independent sector healthcare markets. 
We see scope for further acquisitions provided they 
meet our strict investment criteria and promise strong 
returns to our shareholders.
People and the Board  
We are primarily a people business. Our staff are 
dedicated, professional and passionate about 
healthcare. It is these qualities which have enabled us 
to build and maintain our reputation. The Board would 
like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for the 
commitment and hard work that made the year such 
a success. 
System C is also committed to high standards of 
corporate governance. As an AIM-listed Group, 
although we are not bound by the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance, we have voluntarily adopted 
many of its provisions.
2007/8 has been a very successful 
year for System C. The Group 
has increased its client base, 
won new contracts, completed 
two strategic acquisitions and 
achieved significant organic 
growth in revenues, profitability 
and cash generation.  
chairman’s statement annual report and financial statements 2008 | System C 7
Dividend 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.36p, 
giving a total dividend of 0.54p for the year. This 
represents an increase of 50% on 2007 and reflects the 
strong financial performance and cash generation of the 
business. If approved by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 6 November 2008, the final dividend 
will be paid on 10 November 2008 to those shareholders 
on the register on 3 October 2008.
Current Trading and Outlook 
We have had a good start to the new financial year, and 
anticipate another good performance in 2008/9. 
System C has a substantial order book for products and 
services for 2008/9 and beyond, and a healthy pipeline 
of opportunities. By growing and diversifying both our 
client base and our sources of revenue we have reduced 
risk and expanded our opportunities for further progress. 
The Board considers that market prospects for 
healthcare services and products to be favourable, and is 
confident of achieving continued growth.
Jim Horsburgh Chairman
9 September 2008
chairman’s statement
“
System C people have helped 
me resolve all kinds of problems 
and challenges in a professional and 
flexible manner. I can tell you it is 
most refreshing
”
Sue Wilson Head of EPR 
at Sandwell & West Birmingham NHS Trust
