 06
CHAIRMAn’ S RePo Rt
System C | annual report and financial statements 2010
Introduction and highlights 
System C has once again achieved strong financial growth 
in the context of a very difficult economic environment. 
Revenues increased by 75% to £38.3m from organic 
growth as well as from acquisition. An operating profit 
margin of 13% was achieved, and the Group closed 
the year with £18.6m cash, an increase of £3.9m on 
2008/9. This includes cash balances from the acquisitions 
of Liquidlogic Limited and Conscia Enterprise Systems 
Limited during the year. 
t his last year has been something of a milestone for the 
Company in its strategy of growing the product side of its 
business. o ur five-year investment in the next generation 
Medway product suite has begun to bear fruit, and at a time 
when the n HS It market is opening up to a much broader 
range of suppliers. t he implementation of the Medway 
clinical information system at Aintree University Hospital 
n HS Foundation t rust has progressed well and according to 
expectations, providing an important reference site for our 
electronic Patient Record system. equally important is the 
news that System C has been selected by t he Royal Devon 
& exeter n HS Foundation t rust to supply its Medway order 
communications and electronic-prescribing software. t his 
represents a significant strategic win in one of the first major 
procurements outside the Government’ s n ational Programme 
for It.
o ver the course of the year we have also significantly enhanced 
our social care product offering through the acquisition of 
Liquidlogic. t he acquisition of web specialist Conscia in o ctober 
2009 gave us a strategic stronghold in the portal market.   
Product revenues increased by 215% from last year (113% 
organic growth) and now account for 54% of total revenues 
(2009: 30%).
o n the services side, the Company continues to deploy 
a wide range of third party systems for n HS t rusts across 
the UK. We have remained heavily involved in deploying 
products from iSoft and Cerner under the n ational 
Programme for It, with n HS t rusts, CfH and Local Service 
Providers as clients. o ur Healthcare Improvement team 
continues to deliver results with a number of contract wins at 
n HS t rusts in england and in n orthern Ireland. 
In the independent healthcare sector, contracts with leading 
providers such as Circle Health and Care UK continue to 
perform well.
Acquisitions
In July 2009 we acquired Liquidlogic Limited, an established 
provider of It solutions to the social care market in the UK, 
for a final total consideration of £10.2m in cash. t hrough this 
acquisition we have created the first health and social care 
It company of significant scale in the UK. t he Liquidlogic 
products are a good complement for Medway and have 
already been integrated with and sold alongside our existing 
product range. Since the year end, the Government has made 
clear in its White Paper for the n HS that it would be consulting 
widely on the seamless integration of health and social care, 
which it regards as ‘essential for patient outcomes’.
In conjunction with the Liquidlogic acquisition, System C 
successfully raised £12.0m through a placing of ordinary 
shares in the Company in order to fund further expansion. 
t he placing was undertaken at a small discount to the mid 
market price and we are very pleased to have received 
continued and enthusiastic support for our strategy from 
both our existing shareholder base and from a number of 
new institutional investors.
“
We are beginning to reap the rewards of our  
major strategic investment in the next  
generation of our Medway product range
Jim Horsburgh
 
“ CHAIRMAn’ S RePo Rt
07
annual report and financial statements 2010 | System C
In o ctober 2009 we acquired Conscia enterprise Systems 
Limited for £0.8m in cash. Conscia is a web solutions company 
based in Glasgow specialising in providing premium web 
applications, including e-commerce and mobile solutions, to 
both the private and public sectors. Clients include n HS24, 
n HS n ational Services Scotland, n HS education for Scotland, 
the Scottish Government Health Department, and a number 
of regional health boards.
Conscia is the fifth acquisition System C has completed in 
the last three years. We will consider further acquisitions 
where they bring complementary products, new clients for 
the wider group’s products and services, and people who 
share our commitment to health and social care. 
People and the Board
t he Board would like to take this opportunity to thank 
System C’s employees for the commitment and hard work 
that made the year such a success. We are primarily a 
people business. o ur reputation as a first-rate delivery 
organisation is built on the dedication and professionalism 
of our employees 
We take our responsibilities to our staff extremely seriously 
and we are proud that System C has been named one of the 
top 100 companies to work for in the UK, winning a place 
in the 2010 Sunday t imes Best 100 Companies to Work For 
survey (our 3rd such award). 
In January 2010 our n on-executive Director t homas 
Chambers stepped-in as Acting Finance Director following 
the departure of Andrew Coll. o n 12 July 2010 we 
welcomed Hedley Mayor as our new Finance Director. 
System C is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. As an AIM-listed Group, we are not bound 
by the UK Corporate Governance Code (formerly “the 
Combined Code (2008)”), but have voluntarily adopted 
many of its provisions.
Dividends
t he Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.50p (2009: 
0.44p), giving a total dividend of 0.75p (2009: 0.66p) for the 
year. t his represents an increase of 14% on 2009 and reflects 
the strong financial performance and cash generation of the 
business.  If approved by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 10 n ovember 2010, the final dividend 
will be paid on 15 n ovember 2010 to those shareholders on 
the register on 15 o ctober 2010.
Current trading and outlook
t he structural changes proposed for the n HS in the 
Government’s White Paper, Equality and Excellence: 
Liberating the NHS, are extensive and likely to impact most 
areas of healthcare provision and associated services. Health 
Minister Simon Burns has since made clear that all acute 
t rusts will be free to manage their own It projects on the 
principle of connected systems and interoperability with a 
plural system of suppliers. t he details of the Government’s 
strategy will become clearer again over the coming months.   
t he market for It products in the n HS is already opening 
up to a wider range of suppliers. t he Company is currently 
experiencing a significant increase in interest for its 
hospital products and is active in a number of PAS/ePR 
procurements. As we made clear in our trading update 
in September, negotiation periods for these large scale 
contracts are inevitably protracted and revenues from sales 
of the new hospital-wide system are expected to come 
on stream in the second half of the current financial year 
and beyond. t he opening up of It procurements following 
changes in the n ational Programme for It is a significant 
opportunity for the Group and we intend to take a long term 
view to maximise our position in such a market. 
t he Directors recognise that in the short term, Government 
spending cuts present a risk to revenues, particularly 
services revenues. t he timing of n HS procurements 
and deployments will have a significant impact on the 
Company’s performance during the current year as System C 
continues its transition into a product-led company. During 
this period the Company will be focused in particular on 
cost management to ensure that costs remain in line with 
the revenue streams. As at 31 May 2010 the Company had 
net cash balances of approximately £18.6 million.
t he Board considers there to be significant product 
opportunities in the medium term, which will lead to greater 
prominence of product revenues, improved margins and 
increased predictability in services utilisation.  
Jim Horsburgh
Chairman
24 September 2010
