 annual report and financial statements 2009 | System C
5 
•	Strong demand from existing and new
 clients meant that services revenues 
 increased by 25% over the year to £15.4m.   
 The delivery team continued to perform   
 well within the government’ s healthcare IT  
 programme, working with NHS Connecting 
 for Health and Local Service Provider   
 clients. At the same time, the Group saw 
 substantially increased demand for 
 deployment and post go-live services 
 provided directly to NHS trusts. 
 The services team has continued to widen  
 the range of third party products which it   
 can support. System C has now deployed 
 over 30 different departmental and  
 trust-wide third party solutions across the  
 primary, secondary and social care  
 sectors. Service team members also have  
 direct deployment experience of a further  
 25 systems. This wealth of expertise and   
 experience has cemented the company’ s  
 position as a flexible one-stop shop for all  
 healthcare IT services. 
•	2008/09 saw a considerable expansion 
 in the Group’ s product range. The major   
 investment in developing next generation 
 products bore fruit with the successful 
 launch of the new Medway Sigma product  
 suite. We have had over a dozen successful  
 deployments of Medway Sigma this year   
 including patient management, maternity,  
 and business intelligence systems, and the  
 sales pipeline continues to grow. 
  
 Successful implementations of Medway   
 Sigma included Nottingham NHS 
 Treatment Centre, Heatherwood and 
 Wexham Park Hospitals NHS Foundation 
 Trust and NHS Ayrshire and Arran. 
•	The acquisition of Bluestar in May 2009
 brought new and complementary products 
 into the Medway suite including IGFlow, 
 a new product allowing trusts to control 
 flows of sensitive information. This is 
 already being implemented in NHS trusts  
 across Kent. Bluestar has also brought RFID  
 (Radio Frequency Identification) to 
 System C, a key technological addition to  
 the System C product suite. 
•	System C also announced a major contract  
 with NHS Connecting for Health to design  
 and implement pilot Clinical Intelligence 
 Systems in over a dozen NHS trusts across 
 all ten English Strategic Health Authorities.
•	Since the year end, System C has taken
 the key step in creating the UK’ s first 
 major health and social services supplier 
 with the £14.2m acquisition of Liquidlogic, 
 a provider of software and related services 
 to the social care sector. System C is now 
 uniquely placed to meet the national drive 
 for high quality integrated care against a 
 backdrop of reduced public spending, an 
 ageing population and improving but 
 costly treatments.
operating highlights of the year
annual report and financial statements 2009 | System C
2008/09 was another good year across the System C Group.
5 
