 System C | annual report and financial statements 2010
08
CHIeF eXeCUt IVe o FFICeR’S ReVIeW
Introduction
I was very pleased with the performance of the Group 
across the board this year as we made significant 
progress in all areas. This is very much a time of 
transition for System C as we adjust to the slowdown 
in National Programme deployment activity and the 
corresponding rise in large system procurements by 
individual NHS Trusts. There is no doubt that the next 18 
months will be a key time in the Group’s development.
As I have explained in previous annual reports, the Group 
has been investing heavily in product development over the 
last five years. We have been working to a detailed strategy 
to broaden the capability of the Group through a long-
term investment programme aimed at delivering sustained 
profitable growth. At the core of this strategy was the need 
to drive organic growth through the development of new 
products, enhanced by our services capability and capacity 
and supported by an on-going programme of acquisitions. 
I am excited to see our next generation Medway product 
suite come to the market and secure early contract wins at a 
time when the market is opening up. 
Products – new technologies for changing markets
t he product division has performed very well in the year. 
With revenues of £20.6m (2009: £6.5m), it now accounts for 
approximately 54% of total Group revenues (2009: 30%). 
We are pleased with this progress and expect to see an 
increasing percentage of our revenues coming from our own 
products in the coming years. 
We are delighted with the market response to our next-
generation Medway software. Demonstrations of the software 
have been well-received and we achieved a significant strategic 
win with the Royal Devon & exeter n HS Foundation t rust to 
supply our Medway order communications and electronic-
prescribing software, a first step in the implementation of a 
complete ePR system. 
o ne of Medway’s key selling points is that it is very advanced 
technically and this was recognised by Microsoft in July 
when System C was named world-wide winner of the 
prestigious 2010 Microsoft Partner of the year award in the 
category ‘Public sector health partner’. t he award recognises 
outstanding innovation and solutions which deliver real 
benefits to a customer’s business, and System C was chosen 
from nearly 3,000 entries drawn from all around the world. 
t he entire Medway product range – which also includes PAS, 
ePR and numerous departmental systems including A&e and 
maternity – is based on the latest Microsoft technologies.
“
t he opportunities for our new product 
deployments are very exciting
 
Dr Ian Denley
“
2010 Microsoft Worldwide Partner Conference CHIeF eXeCUt IVe o FFICeR’S ReVIeW
09
annual report and financial statements 2010 | System C
Conscia, acquired in o ctober last year, successfully 
developed a new health portal for n HS Scotland which 
offers health and social care professionals on-line access 
to a vast knowledgebase of clinical guidelines, evidence 
materials, training and professional development resources. 
Launched by n icola Sturgeon, Scottish Cabinet Secretary 
for Health and Wellbeing, the portal is also aimed at 
patients and members of the public, giving them the latest 
information about a condition, for example, symptoms 
and treatment. In addition to providing access to over 
12 million resources, the portal offers a range of 
collaborative features such as social bookmarking, shared 
interests, and tag clouds.
Another landmark was the collaboration with GP software 
supplier eMIS, which has resulted in University Hospital 
Aintree in Merseyside being able to seamlessly link patient 
information from 100 GP practices, representing 450,000 
patients, to clinicians working across all of its urgent care 
services. t he project – the first in the UK to link two different 
primary and secondary care It systems on this scale – is 
designed to improve patient care and deliver significant 
efficiencies by providing vital patient information at the 
point of need.
In 2008, we were successful in our bid to be awarded 
framework contracts in 16 categories in the UK Government’s 
Additional Services Capability and Capacity (ASCC) 
procurement. t his was an important win for the company 
because only companies included in the framework contract 
catalogue are eligible to bid in ASCC procurements.
System C has won a number of high value ASCC contracts 
since that time, most notably last year’ s dashboard contract for 
n HS Connecting for Health. ASCC procurements, particularly 
for t rusts looking to replace PAS, ePR and clinical systems in 
a streamlined procurement process, have been slower off the 
ground than anticipated. However, in recent months the pace 
has picked up considerably. n HS Connecting for Health is now 
running its own ASCC procurement for community, ambulance 
and acute systems on behalf of a large number of t rusts in the 
South of england. In addition, many individual trusts are also 
running or planning ASCC procurements.
>
t he year also marked our 17th year of partnership with 
Aintree University Hospitals n HS Foundation t rust, building a 
fully-integrated PAS/ePR solution across one of the country’s 
largest acute t rusts. t he partnership has already delivered 
many millions of pounds of benefits to Aintree, and the t rust 
is now looking to realise a further £5m over the lifetime of 
the next generation of Medway software. t he close working 
relationship with Aintree has enabled System C to engage in 
continuous development and enhancement of its Medway 
PAS/ePR products to meet the n HS’s evolving needs and to 
capitalise on opportunities offered by new technology. 
o ver the course of the year we celebrated our 50th Medway 
deployment when Mid Cheshire Hospitals n HS Foundation 
t rust went live with a Medway Maternity information system.
o ther recent product installations have included multiple 
deployments of the Company’s clinical dashboard, web 
portal, maternity, accident and emergency, and other 
departmental modules. t he latter stages of the deployment 
of a wide range of health and social care systems on behalf 
of the Isle of Man Government have also gone to plan, 
and it is expected that the final elements of this large-scale 
programme will be completed successfully by the end of 
calendar year 2010.
Liquidlogic has begun integrating its product and marketing 
efforts with System C’s healthcare ranges and has made 
its first sale of a Medway dashboard to a social care client.  
System C and Liquidlogic have also produced the UK’s 
first health and social care link under n HS Connecting for 
Health’s new standards for systems integration. Spending 
constraints present a challenge in the social care market, but 
the procurement pipeline for social care systems is strong.  System C | annual report and financial statements 2010
CHIeF eXeCUt IVe o FFICeR’S ReVIeW
<
10
Services – world-class delivery capability and capacity
Services revenue at £17.8m is 16% higher than last year 
(2009: £15.4m). We continue to have a well-earned 
reputation for providing successful deployments both on 
time and on budget across our own products and across 
a range of third party systems. System C staff have been 
involved with many of the major acute system go-lives 
during the year including Lorenzo and Cerner Millennium 
deployments. t his breadth makes us unique in our market.
In recent months we have seen a slowing down of new 
services enquiries and of ongoing work from existing clients 
as public sector budgets come under further review. We 
have taken steps to control our cost base in the short term 
while keeping the ability to expand our services capability 
as the economy recovers. However, our services capacity 
and capability is also a key selling advantage for our product 
sales team and we are expecting substantial increases 
in Medway-related services activity with the first wave of 
procurements.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
t he Directors believe that the KPIs of the business are 
revenues, average revenue per head, gross margins, 
operating profit margins, earnings per share and cash 
generation. t his information is summarised below:
 year ended 31 May 2010 2009
 Revenue £38.3m £21.9m
 Average revenue per head
1
 £112,668 £106,311
 Gross margin
2
 57% 56%
 Margin on profit from operations
3
 13% 16%
 Basic ePS 4.07p 3.72p
 Cash generated from operations £7.6m £3.8m
n ote 1:  Average revenue per head is defined as the total revenue in the 
year divided by the average monthly number of employees.
n ote 2:  Gross margin is defined as gross profit divided by total revenue.
n ote 3:  Margin on profit from operations is defined as the profit from 
operations divided by total revenue.
t he Board sets target measures and monitors progress 
against these measures and other operational measures on 
a regular basis. 11
annual report and financial statements 2010 | System C
CHIeF eXeCUt IVe o FFICeR’S ReVIeW
Future strategy 
o ur medium-term strategy remains an ongoing transition 
from a services-led to a product-based company in order to 
continue improving the quality of our earnings and ensure 
profitable growth over the coming years. Since the year end, 
the Government has published its White Paper for the n HS, 
Equality and Excellence: Liberating the NHS.
We are currently waiting for the promised consultation 
exercises and primary legislation, but we believe the White 
Paper points to significant opportunities for System C, both 
in product and service terms. It makes clear its commitment 
to giving n HS t rusts greater freedom and autonomy, and 
to encouraging all n HS t rusts to benefit from the greater 
power and independence conferred by foundation status. 
• o n the service side, we envisage opportunities for 
System C’s healthcare improvement services. t he White 
Paper is clear that over the next five years the n HS ‘will 
only be able to increase quality through implementing 
best practice and increasing productivity.’
• o n products, it talks about an information revolution. 
We anticipate a substantial requirement for new It 
systems: to deliver information to patients about hospital 
and clinical team performance, and about conditions 
and treatment; to provide clinical teams with the means 
to measure their promised new outcome targets; to 
assist GPs in their proposed new role as commissioners 
of services. 
• We also welcome the very clear commitment to 
integrating health and social care. t he White Paper 
states: “It is essential for patient outcomes that health 
and social care are better integrated at all levels of the 
system” . It was our belief in the truth of this statement 
that drove our acquisition of Liquidlogic last year. We 
intend to play a full part in the forthcoming consultation 
process on achieving this. 
• Finally, we welcome the commitment to plurality of 
systems, which we expect will ensure that the current 
increase in procurement levels continues.
Health and social care budgets in the public and private 
sectors are inevitably under intense review. In addition, the 
infrastructure changes proposed in the White Paper are 
extremely wide reaching and will lead to extensive change.
However, we remain confident of the significant opportunites 
for the company in the medium term and beyond.  
Specifically, we have seen a big increase in the number of 
individual hospital trusts looking to purchase PAS, ePR and 
clinical systems. t he surge in activity has been created by a 
combination of factors: many acute trusts are using systems 
that are 20 years old or more; in many cases the new systems 
are critical to generating the efficiency benefits that the n HS 
now has to deliver; and many t rusts had been released from 
their central obligations to deploy systems from the n ational 
Programme for It.  Since the year end, the Government has 
made it clear that all t rusts will be free to make their own It 
purchasing decisions.
o ur product sales pipeline has never been healthier. 
Uncertainty surrounding the timing of these opportunities 
means that we need to remain flexible and adaptable, and 
continue delivering innovative and creative solutions to clients.
System C’s products have been designed in order to help 
manage change and introduce efficiency in health and 
social care provision. We believe that the drive towards 
high quality services within tightening budgets offers both 
product and consulting opportunities for the Group.
Dr Ian Denley
Chief executive o fficer
24 September 2010
Equity and excellence: 
Liberating the 
NHS 
