 System C | annual report and financial statements 2009
chairman’s report 
Introduction and highlights 
This has been another good year for System C. We 
have achieved strong financial growth in a difficult 
economic environment. Revenues increased by 21% 
to £21.9m, an operating profit margin of 16% was 
achieved, and the Group closed the year with £14.7m 
cash, an increase of £2.3m on 2007/8.  
We have continued investing in our product range both 
through internal development and through strategic 
acquisition of complementary products and technologies. 
The acquisitions of Care Records and IQ Systems in the 
previous financial year, have been fully integrated and their 
products are now incorporated into the Medway suite. 
During the last year we successfully deployed over a dozen 
Medway systems smoothly, on time and within budget. 
On the services side, the delivery team continued to 
perform well within the government’s healthcare IT 
programme for both Connecting for Health and Local 
Service Provider clients. At the same time, the Group saw 
substantially increased demand for deployment and post 
go-live services provided directly to NHS trusts
During the course of the year, System C also continued its 
strategic expansion beyond NHS trusts. We successfully 
completed the implementation of our Medway Sigma 
Electronic Patient Record and Management system at 
the Nottingham NHS Treatment Centre, the largest 
independent sector treatment centre in Europe, for 
example. We signed a five-year EPR/PAS contract with a 
Wiltshire-based consortium of GPs which is pioneering 
government plans to provide selected acute services in 
a community setting. We launched our flagship Medway 
product suite into the Middle East healthcare market.   
Acquisitions
In May we acquired Bluestar UK Group Ltd, a specialist 
developer and supplier of innovative healthcare IT 
solutions, for a maximum consideration of £3 million. 
Bluestar’s products include a Radio Frequency 
Identification (RFID) system for tracking patients and 
equipment, an infection control system, and the IGFlow 
information governance product which helps healthcare 
providers manage confidential patient data.  
The products are a good complement for Medway Sigma 
and have already been integrated with and sold alongside 
our existing product range.  
 
 
Since the year-end System C has completed the 
acquisition of Liquidlogic, an established provider of IT 
solutions to the social care market in the UK, for a total 
consideration of up to £14.2m in cash and shares. Through 
this acquisition we have created the first health and social 
care IT company of significant scale in the UK.  
“
“
During the last year we 
successfully deployed over 
a dozen Medway systems 
smoothly, on time and 
within budget.
medway
RFID
medway
IG toolbox
medway
infection control
medway
benchmarking
6 
Jim Horsburgh annual report and financial statements 2009 | System C
7 
In conjunction with the Liquidlogic acquisition, System C 
successfully raised £12.0m through a placing of ordinary 
shares in the company in order to fund further expansion. 
The placing was undertaken at a small discount to the mid 
market price and we are very pleased to have received 
continued and enthusiastic support for our strategy from 
both our existing shareholder base and from a number of 
new institutional investors.
Liquidlogic is the fourth acquisition System C has 
completed in the last three years. Each of these has 
brought to the Group complementary products and 
technology, clients with a need for the wider group’s 
products and services, and people who share our passion 
for health and social care and our drive for efficient 
delivery.  We see scope for further acquisitions ahead 
provided they meet our investment criteria and offer the 
promise of good returns to our shareholders.
People and the board 
We are primarily a people business. Our employees are 
dedicated, professional and passionate about health and 
social care. It is these qualities which have enabled us to 
build and maintain our reputation as a first-rate delivery 
organisation. The Board would like to take this opportunity 
to thank everyone for the commitment and hard work that 
made the year such a success.
We were pleased to have achieved ”Best Company” status 
category under the Sunday Times “Best Companies” 
criteria again this year.  We take our responsibilities to our 
staff extremely seriously and we are delighted to see our 
efforts recognised again this year.
System C is also committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. As an AIM-listed Group, we are not bound by 
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, but have 
voluntarily adopted many of the provisions of the code.
Dividends 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.44p, 
giving a total dividend of 0.66p for the year. This represents 
an increase of 22% on 2008 and reflects the strong financial 
performance and cash generation of the business.  
If approved by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting on 3 November 2009, the final dividend will be 
paid on 9 November 2009, to those shareholders on the 
register on 9 October 2009.
Current trading and outlook 
This is a time of considerable political and economic 
upheaval and there is no doubt that leaner times are 
ahead for the NHS. However, we believe that System C 
is in a very good strategic position to help the NHS with 
its changing priorities.  We have had a good start to the 
new financial year and we are on target to achieve another 
good performance in 2009/10.  
The Government’s drive towards the provision of high 
quality services within tightening budgets offers further 
opportunities to the Group across the board. 
System C’s products and services have been designed in 
order to help manage change and introduce efficiency in 
healthcare provision. This includes our traditional patient 
management and clinical systems as well as the healthcare 
improvement business that we have been growing over 
the last year.  
At the same time, the National Programme for IT is 
introducing secondary care systems of choice for the 
three southern Strategic Health Authorities, allowing 
trusts to choose from a wider range of centrally funded 
computer systems. This is an interesting development 
which is expected to speed up the deployment of acute, 
community and mental health systems in the South and is 
expected to generate substantial opportunities both for 
System C’s products and for its deployment services.
Finally, at a time when the government is exhorting 
health and social care services to work much more closely 
together, System C has by acquisition become the UK’s 
first major health and social services supplier. 
Jim Horsburgh 
Chairman 
24 September 2009
