 System C | annual report and financial statements 2008 8
System C has performed well this 
year and I am pleased to report 
that we have made progress in 
each area of our business. Group 
revenues increased 34% to 
£18.1m, profit from operations 
increased to £2.4m (2007: 
£0.6m), and we closed the year 
with a strong net cash balance 
of £12.4m (2007: £10m). A large 
proportion of the revenue growth 
(£3.7m) was organic and the cash 
balance was net of the £1.8m 
consideration paid for acquisitions 
during the year. 
chief executive officer’s review
Since the early days of the National Programme for 
IT when System C was focused on a small number 
of key customers, the Group has worked hard to 
increase the breadth and diversity of its client base. 
2007/8 saw good progress in this respect with 
additional product sales, a significant move into 
the independent healthcare sector and the Group 
securing two major new services clients.
One of the key strengths of our business is that we 
combine a substantial and experienced services delivery 
capability with a broad, high quality product range. 
Our Product and Services divisions work together 
to maximise the cross-sharing of knowledge about 
delivery, workflow methodologies, technical skills and 
deployment, and we have continued to apply this 
combined resource to the benefit of our clients. For 
example, during 2007/8 we used our MedWay product 
design skills in support of NPfIT projects, while our 
Services deployment teams helped implement MedWay 
and other systems. The entire Group benefits from 
this synergy, and it has contributed to the creation of 
an efficient and cost-effective delivery service able to 
handle complex and high volume projects. 
Services and delivery capability
Revenue from our Services Division grew 23% to £12.3m 
in the year due to new business and increased demand 
from existing customers.
The Services division has continued to enhance its 
reputation for taking on and resolving the most complex 
issues. The team has delivered over 200 work packages 
in the course of the year, providing help in areas ranging 
from training to data migration. With new contract wins 
in London, the Group has achieved full national coverage 
for the first time. The Group’s experience across care 
settings continues to grow. The team has worked 
extensively with acute hospitals, primary care trusts, GP 
practices, diagnostic centres, ambulance trusts and a 
broad range of clinical departments. annual report and financial statements 2008 | System C 9
chief executive officer’s review
The major services contract signed with NHS Connecting 
for Health (“CFH”) in May 2007 continues to progress 
well, and CFH has recently signed a 12 month extension. 
In addition, services staff continue to work for Local 
Service Providers (“LSPs”) and NHS trusts across the 
country supporting all aspects of National Care Record 
System (“NCRS”) deployments.
Outside of the National Programme, the division 
worked in support of the Government’s Independent 
Sector Diagnostics Programme by delivering a complex 
patient management and imaging system to 28 static 
and mobile sites across London. It is now working on a 
similar project for PET/CT imaging (“Position Emission 
Tomography and Computed Tomography”).The 
division is also providing direct services support to the 
companies acquired by the Group and, in an example 
of the synergies between System C and its acquisitions, 
is now providing significant levels of consultancy and 
deployment support to the new clients brought into the 
Group when the companies were purchased.
Launch of Perigon Consulting
In March 2008 we launched Perigon, a new consultancy 
service aimed at helping healthcare organisations meet 
the challenges posed by the Government’s reform 
agenda. This service utilises the clinical and healthcare 
management skills and experience of our employees, 
but its remit extends beyond IT to the broad operational 
issues associated with clinical change and service 
improvement. Perigon’s focus is on improving services 
to patients through innovative clinical practice and 
associated business efficiencies. Areas of specialisation 
include the design and delivery of clinical assessment 
services, the redesign of clinical and business processes 
and public/employee engagement, a key component in 
the delivery of clinical assessment services.
This new offering has been formed by combining the 
expertise of Perigon Healthcare, an existing independent 
healthcare consulting partnership specialising in 
‘future state’ healthcare development, with System C’s 
healthcare consulting service. Perigon operates as a 
division of System C Healthcare, and has access to all of 
System C’s people and resources.
This initiative has already secured its first contracts and 
Perigon promises to develop into a significant new line 
of business in the coming years.
Products
Revenues within the Products division grew by £2.3m 
to £5.8m in the year, driven both by organic growth of 
£1.4m (40%) and by the IQ and Care Records acquisitions 
which together contributed £0.9m of revenue.
During 2007/8, the Product teams focused on the 
deployment and support of existing healthcare products 
and on the development of the new generation 
Medway Sigma product range.
In November 2007, our product and Services divisions 
combined to deliver our own MedWay Electronic Patient 
Record system to Nobles and Ramsey hospitals on 
the Isle of Man. This was the first phase of the Group’s 
£7.5m 5-year contract to computerise healthcare across 
the island and included PAS, Accident and Emergency, 
maternity, document tracking, data warehouse and 
reporting systems. This was an extremely successful 
deployment, delivered on time and within budget in just 
eight months, and brought the Group significant positive 
publicity in the UK market.
We continue to support our existing clients with our 
MedWay software suite and have made many significant 
improvements to the product over the course of the year, 
including a new service to support the government’s 18 
week Referral to Treatment Time (“RTT”) programme, 
enhanced support for clinicians via the integration of the 
Map of Medicine, and the integration of clinical systems 
such as electronic prescribing and maternity.
> System C | annual report and financial statements 2008 10
< 
Product development
System C recognises the value of continuous 
development of its healthcare products and has taken 
advantage of the Group’s strong financial position to 
expand its development programme at a time when 
many UK healthcare systems providers have curbed 
their investment.
The software development teams continue to 
make excellent progress with the redevelopment 
of the healthcare software suites into Microsoft .net 
technologies. Most of the modules have now been 
completed on schedule and within budget and the first 
Patient Administration modules (master patient index, 
emergency care, electronic casenote, clinical coding, 
clinical letters, patient tracking and data warehouse) 
were installed in June 2008, three months earlier than 
planned. The new systems are performing well 
and are popular with clinical, administrative and 
management users. The upgraded product is known 
as Medway Sigma.
The move to a Microsoft based.net system is a significant 
achievement with many important benefits. The 
development provides full integration with Microsoft’s 
core product set (including SQL Server, Exchange, 
Office Communications Server, Office, SharePoint and 
PerformancePoint), and gives users all of the benefits 
of these products from within Medway Sigma software. 
Medway Sigma also becomes the first trust-wide product 
available in the UK to standardise on the new Common 
User Interface (“CUI”) developed jointly by Microsoft 
and the NHS. The look and feel of the new product 
set is clean and modern and adherence to Microsoft 
and CUI standards means that the solutions are 
familiar to NHS users. This has the benefit of reducing 
training requirements for customers whilst enhancing 
functionality and usability.
Appointed supplier under Additional Services 
Capacity and Capability Contract (“ASCC”)
In April 2008 System C secured a major framework 
agreement to provide a range of IT products and 
services to the NHS.
The business was successful in all of the 16 categories 
that it bid for, and now holds framework contracts for its 
PAS, maternity and A&E systems, as well as for a wide 
range of clinical software. System C was also successful 
in its bid to provide associated consultancy services such 
as deployment, data migration, training and interfacing 
for all of the above. Winning these contracts gives the 
Group a significant advantage in the English market.
The new ASCC framework contracts are for a four year 
duration. They will allow NHS organisations and other 
NHS-funded establishments, such as Independent 
Treatment Centres, a faster and easier route to procure 
IT systems and services from suppliers who have 
demonstrated experience in the health sector. ASCC can 
be used to support both NPfIT related work and wider 
IT-related projects.
Acquisitions
Our strategy is to identify acquisition opportunities 
which meet our stringent investment criteria and provide 
System C with new clients in related markets and/or 
strategic technologies for use within our Medway Sigma 
product range.
We acquired IQ Systems Services Ltd in July 2007 for 
a cash consideration of £0.9m with further amounts 
payable on achievement of specific performance criteria. 
This company develops and markets the IQUtopia 
patient management and clinical system to independent 
treatment centres. The acquisition has furthered  
System C’s expansion into the private healthcare market 
and the synergies between IQ and the Group has also 
meant that System C staff are now contracting directly 
with IQ clients. Our focus on strengthening IQ’s business 
development activities has led to considerable interest 
in the product range from private healthcare providers in 
the UK and overseas. 
 
chief executive officer’s review annual report and financial statements 2008 | System C 11
Our strategy
Over the last two years, we have consolidated our 
position as one of the UK’s premier healthcare IT services 
supplier, and have developed an excellent reputation for 
the delivery of complex IT solutions in both the public 
and the private sectors.
We are also expanding our consultancy services into 
general healthcare consulting, leveraging our skills and 
experience in clinical and healthcare management. In 
parallel, we have completed a significant redevelopment 
of our product range that positions us well for future 
patient management and clinical systems sales 
opportunities both in the UK and overseas.
We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities 
to enhance our consulting, services and products 
businesses on a selective basis.
These are exciting times, with considerable 
opportunities for expansion, and we would like to thank 
our customers, our employees and our shareholders for 
their continued support.
Care Records Ltd was acquired in January 2008 for a cash 
consideration of £0.9m with additional amounts payable 
on the achievement of specific performance criteria. 
Care Records is a developer of leading-edge technology 
for the design and development of clinical IT systems. 
It has used this core technology to produce the Eclipse 
maternity system and a diabetes management system, 
both of which have been installed in UK hospitals. 
Further clinical modules are currently 
under development.
The Care Records clinical products are in the process 
of being integrated into the Medway Sigma product 
set and will advance the availability of extended clinical 
functionality into Sigma by several years.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The Directors believe that the KPIs of the business are 
revenues, average revenue per head, gross margins, 
operating profit margins, earnings per share and cash 
generation. This information is summarised below:
chief executive officer’s review
 Year ended 31 May 2008 2007
 Revenue £18.1m £13.5m
 Average revenue per head
1
 £101,685 £85,816
 Gross margin
2
 55% 47%
 Margin on profit from operations
3
 13% 4%
 Basic EPS 2.56p 1.09p
 Net cash balance £12.4m £10m
 Cash generated from operations £4.5m £2.1m
Note 1:   Average revenue per head is defined as the total revenue
in the year divided by the average monthly number of employees.
Note 2:  Gross margin is defined as gross profit divided by total revenue.
Note 3:   Margin on profit from operations is defined as the profit from
operations divided by total revenue.
Additional comments on the movement in the Group’s 
KPIs is contained within the Financial Review.
The Board sets target measures and monitors progress 
against these measures, and other operational 
measures on a regular basis.
