 System C | annual report and financial statements 2009
Introduction
In 2006, we put in place a detailed strategy to 
broaden the capability of the System C Group 
through a long-term investment programme aimed 
at delivering sustained profitable growth. At its 
core is the need to drive organic growth through 
the development of new products and services, and 
to support that organic growth with an on-going 
programme of acquisitions. 
It is a strategy which delivered for us again in 2008/9. 
We have been successful in anticipating the direction 
of travel of the healthcare IT sector, and in developing 
innovative products and services to meet the 
increasingly complex requirements of our customers. 
Services - world-class delivery capability and capacity
Our investment programme for our services division has 
focused on the continued development of high calibre 
and adaptable delivery teams capable of working in a 
range of care settings, and with a wide range of products. 
In 2008/9 we consolidated our position as the deployment 
partner of choice. The services team continued to widen 
the number of third party products which it can support 
and to establish System C as a flexible one-stop shop 
for all healthcare IT services. We have now successfully 
deployed over 30 different departmental and trust-wide 
third party solutions, and service team members have 
direct deployment experience of a further 25 systems. 
This breadth makes us unique in our market.  
 
Services growth has come from new and existing clients, 
including private sector healthcare providers, individual 
NHS trusts, Connecting for Health and Local Service 
Providers working under the government’s healthcare IT 
programme. We witnessed particularly high demand for 
our specialist clinical delivery teams. Our clinical content 
team, for example, has worked with hundreds of clinicians 
in complex clinical settings. Strong demand helped the 
services team grow significantly over the year, and the 
workforce is continuing to grow further in 2009/10. 
Our healthcare consulting team, previously operating as 
Perigon Consulting, also had a good year.  
It successfully completed a number of high-profile clinical 
and service change programmes covering areas such as 
patient access, commissioning and contracting.  
A typical project involved redesigning outpatient services 
for a major London acute trust. In addition to eliminating 
breaches of the 18-week waiting target, outcomes 
included a 20% reduction in staff sickness, a 90% drop 
in patient complaints and a 30% drop in patient ‘did not 
attend’ rates.  
engage workforce and patients rce
excite and
energise teams
process flows safely
designed around clinical
and business need
learning from a
blend of improvement 
methodologies
organisationally align
business practice
with policy
review and evaluate
current systems
evidence based
evaluation and audit
e
x
p
l o
r
e
“
“
Looking forward, we are 
confident of further growth.
The explore model - our unique healthcare  
consulting methodology
chief executive officer’s review 
8 
Dr Ian Denley annual report and fi nancial statements 2009 | System C
9 
We have supported this organic growth in services with 
two recent acquisitions, both of which bring us new skills 
and new clients. The acquisition of Bluestar has taken 
us into the growing fi elds of pathology and diagnostic 
services modernisation and project support. Similarly, 
the very recent acquisition of Liquidlogic will support 
expansion of the services we offer across both the health 
and social care sectors. 
Products - new technologies for changing markets
The investment programme for our products division 
has focused on the continued development of our next 
generation Medway Sigma product suite. This investment 
has involved both internal software development and the 
strategic acquisition of complementary products 
and technologies.
Medway Sigma is a modular electronic patient records 
system which makes use of the most up-to-date 
technologies and software development tools. 
The system is based on the Microsoft platform. By using 
the latest technologies, System C is able to develop 
attractive and highly-usable new functionality quickly and 
cost effectively. 
We launched Medway Sigma early in 2008, and since then 
have had over a dozen successful deployments of the 
system, including patient management, clinical, maternity, 
and business intelligence systems. The system is very well 
received by users, and our sales pipeline continues to 
grow. Revenues within the products division grew by 13% 
to £6.5m, driven through organic growth.
In 2007/8, we acquired IQ Systems Services Ltd and Care 
Records Ltd. IQ provided us with advanced scheduling 
and theatre management systems for the private sector, 
and Care Records provided us with complex clinical 
workfl ow tools. The integration of these technologies and 
their respective software teams has now been completed 
successfully.
The acquisition of Bluestar in May 2009 brought new 
and complementary products into the Medway suite 
including RFID (radio frequency identifi cation) a key 
technological addition to many of our products, allowing 
clients to track patients, equipment and documentation 
in real time. Other Bluestar products include IGFlow, a 
new product allowing trusts to control fl ows of sensitive 
information. This product is already being implemented 
by a consortium of NHS trusts across Kent. 
In May 2008, System C was one of a handful of suppliers 
to secure a major Additional Services Capability and 
Capacity Contracts (ASCC) framework agreement with 
the government for a wide range of products including 
our fl agship Patient Administration System. These four-
year contracts will give NHS organisations and other 
NHS-funded establishments a faster and easier way of 
procuring IT systems and services from suppliers who 
have demonstrated experience in the health sector. 
We regard this as a key strategic development for the 
Group.  The Group has already won two ASCC contracts 
and we anticipate winning more as this new procurement 
process picks up speed. The National Programme for IT 
recently announced that three southern Strategic Health 
Authorities, comprising 52 NHS Trusts, could go ahead 
and procure PAS and clinical care systems of choice from 
holders of the framework agreement.  This development 
will have the effect of accelerating deployments in the 
South, providing System C with signifi cant product and 
services opportunities. 
                                                                                                  >
Clinical dashboard examples within our Medway Sigma 
business intelligence module System C | annual report and financial statements 2009
Acquisitions
Our strategy is to identify acquisition opportunities  
which meet our investment criteria and provide  
System C with new clients in related markets and/or 
strategic technologies for use within our Medway Sigma  
product range. 
This was the rationale behind our acquisition of Bluestar 
in May 2009, and Liquidllogic in July 2009, both of which 
have developed strong, well-regarded products that meet 
the complex requirements of the health and social care 
sectors respectively.  
Key performance indicators (KPIs) 
The Directors believe that the KPIs of the business are 
revenues, average revenue per head, gross margins, 
operating profit margins, earnings per share and cash 
generation. This information is summarised below:
 Year ended 31 May 2009 2008
 Revenue £21.9m £18.1m
 Average revenue per head
1
 £106,311 £101,685
 Gross margin
2
 56% 55%
 Margin on profit from operations
3
 16% 13%
 Basic EPS 3.72p 2.56p
 Cash generated from operations £3.8m £4.7m
Note 1:   Average revenue per head is defined as the total revenue 
in the year divided by the average monthly number of 
employees.
Note 2:  Gross margin is defined as gross profit divided by 
  total revenue.
Note 3:   Margin on profit from operations is defined as the profit from 
operations divided by total revenue.
The Board sets target measures and monitors progress 
against these measures and other operational measures 
on a regular basis.
<
chief executive officer’s review 
10  Future strategy 
Our strategy remains a clear and consistent focus on 
achieving profi table growth, while investing in the
longer-term core assets of the business – our expertise, 
our employees, our clients and our Medway Sigma 
product range.  
To achieve this, we need to remain fl exible and adaptable, 
and continue delivering innovative and creative solutions 
to clients. 
This is particularly important as we square up to the 
signifi cant challenges facing the UK economy and the 
NHS. The healthcare sector is charged with delivering 
considerable effi ciency savings, and the new watchwords 
are quality, prevention and innovation. At the same time, 
the shift away from a command economy and a culture 
of targets is being replaced by an emphasis on providing 
services which are sensitive to local needs.  All this places 
a premium on sensitive, timely, secure and high quality 
information, and on systems and processes that save 
money and improve care. 
The government has made it clear that another theme of 
the coming months will be the integration of health and 
social care. The emphasis will be on close collaboration 
to keep people out of hospital and help them lead happy 
and full lives.  Our investment in Liquidlogic refl ects our 
strong belief in this convergence.  
Looking forward, we are confi dent of further growth. 
System C’s products have been designed in order to help 
manage change and introduce effi ciency in healthcare 
and social care provision. We believe that the drive 
towards high quality services within tightening budgets 
offers both product and consulting opportunities for 
the Group.  
11 
