 I am very pleased to report continued progress in the performance of the Group, despite difficult
global trading conditions. We significantly increased our profits during 2002, and ended the year with
cash balances of £18.9 million. All areas of the business showed an improved profit, despite slightly
lower revenues, through greater efficiency and a continued focus on new technology.
SunSystems 5 and Pegasus Opera II have been extremely well received since they were launched
in 2001 and continued progress is anticipated for these products during 2003. This success reflects
our on-going investment in research & development.
Results
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of intangibles (EBITDA) grew by 68 per cent
to £8.7 million (2001: £5.1 million) representing strong profits growth from the Group’s two primary
businesses of SunSystems and Pegasus. This result was particularly pleasing in view of the small decline
in turnover because of the demanding market conditions to £74.6 million (2001: £78.4 million) and
is evidence of further improved productivity.
Net profit after tax was £3.9 million compared to £2.0 million in the previous year, an increase
of 95 per cent. Adjusted earnings per share increased by 87 per cent to 7.1 pence.
The balance sheet is strong and debt free. The cash position improved by £3.6 million and net current
assets rose by £7.9 million.
Whilst the Board is unable to recommend a dividend for 2002, due to the lack of distributable reserves
in the Company, I am pleased to report that following High Court approval of our capital reduction
proposals, the deficit on the Company’s distributable reserves has been eliminated, allowing the
Company to pay dividends from future profits.
The Board
I am delighted to welcome Tony Sweet to the Board. He was appointed chief financial officer upon
joining the Company on 1 December 2002. Tony has extensive experience in private practice including
work on mergers & acquisitions and is a valuable addition to our executive management team.
Outlook
We are focused on growing the Group and to further improve profitability. We remain positive in our
expectations for the outcome of 2003.
Bob Morton
Chairman
04 Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chairman’s
Statement
Bob Morton
Chairman Systems Union Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 05
The UK-based Save the Children charity is part of the International Save the Children Alliance, a group of 30 like-minded but
separately managed organisations working in over 120 countries. They champion the right of every child to have a secure and happy
childhood and the right to be protected from violence, abuse and exploitation.
Save the Children (UK) operates through 7 regional offices around the world. Outside the United Kingdom, all financial management
is handled on SunSystems.
The level of detail and traceability is vital. Save the Children (UK) has an annual income in excess of £110 million, of which roughly
half is restricted funds. These are donated either with a specific usage in mind or as grants for defined purposes. The ability to account
for every penny of restricted funds is essential since full reporting back to donors is required. Future funds are more likely to be
secured if previous donations are shown to have been wisely spent.
“The time and money we have saved through improved administration processes by using SunSystems is considerable,” said
Angela Connolly, head of the finance systems development unit. “For donations with particular uses in mind, our reports
must be very detailed to demonstrate value. Providing this information, cost effectively, is vital. And that means more of our funds
can be spent on saving children.”
Case Study
Aid agencies –
Save the Children
(UK)
SunSystems is used by aid agencies
in 141 countries
