 04 Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005
2005 represented a year of significant
progress with Systems Union Group
delivering record results and our eleventh
consecutive half year in line with, or ahead
of, market expectations. We improved all
key performance indicators across all
operations. In addition, we invested further
in staff, our infrastructure and in our
unrivalled and global portfolio of financial
and performance management solutions. 
Revenues grew to £113.4 million, a 9 per cent
increase on last year and we delivered 8 per
cent organic revenue growth in H2 and 3 per
cent in H1. EBITDA grew by 16 per cent to
£16.5 million and adjusted earnings grew 
by 14 per cent to £12.7 million.
GLOBAL IN REACH, SCALE 
AND SOLUTIONS
The Group is committed to designing and
delivering solutions that help global users
to understand, manage and improve
business performance and profitability.
R&D successfully delivered significant
enhancements to our core SunSystems and
Pegasus financial management solutions,
to MIS, our world-class performance
management and business intelligence
suite and to our Vision portfolio of 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
PAUL COLEMAN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
SUMMARY OF CHIEF
EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
 2005 has been a year of record results for
the Group
 We have exceeded market expectations in
terms of revenue growth and profitability
 Operationally our solution portfolio has
been enhanced with the addition of new
‘value-add’ functionality
 We have invested further in our staff, our
partner communities, our global infrastructure
and our service and support network
 Systems Union is a truly global company
with an enviable and comprehensive
solution portfolio and world wide
distribution network 
 We have a clear and achievable agenda
which is already proving itself 
 We enter 2006 stronger than ever before
with continued optimism for the future Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005 05
pan-application reporting and analytical
products. 2005 saw the launch of
SunSystems Procurement, Vision Serduct
Studio, Pegasus XRL for competitive
products, MIS DecisionWare 5.1.1 and
the development of MIS Consolidation
and Vision Reporting Services.
We increased our staff numbers by 10 per
cent and recruited 22 new channel partners
around the world. A total of 44 training
courses improved the sales skills of our
staff and partners. We have also devised
a new classification system for partners,
Gold Certified, Certified and Registered,
which provides recognition for partner
achievement and competency. 
In terms of the reach and scale of our
operations we made a number of
acquisitions in Asia Pacific, Ireland and
Spain. We opened new offices in Chicago
and Los Angeles and plan to open offices
in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and Guangzhou,
China. In addition, we gained recognition
as a Microsoft Global Independent Software
Vendor. This enables us to build our
commercial relationship with Microsoft and
undertake joint go to market activity as well
as strengthen our R&D relationship across
the product portfolio. 
Our financial, technical and commercial
progress has been recognised by several
independent global awards programmes.
The highlights include the appearance of
Systems Union solutions in the highly
influential Gartner CPM Magic Quadrant, a
ranking in the Deloitte Technology Fast 50
for London and the South East, Europe’s
Top 500 and in MIS Asia Magazine’s Top
100 Technology Companies.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Group revenue grew by 9 per cent to
£113.4 million. Licence revenues at 
£31.5 million increased by 10 per cent,
maintenance revenue at £48.6 million
increased by 7 per cent and services revenue
at £33.3 million increased by 10 per cent. 
Total operating expenses increased by
£5.6 million (up 6 per cent) to £104.9 million.
Most of this increase was attributable to
the increased investment in personnel.
The total number of personnel increased
by 126 to 1,442 and was primarily in sales,
marketing and consulting largely in the
Americas and Asia Pacific regions. 
EBITDA increased by 16 per cent to 
£16.5 million from £14.2 million in 2004 and
the EBITDA margin increased to 14.6 per
cent from 13.6 per cent. The growth in
Group profit before tax was 77 per cent and
25 per cent adjusted for the £1.9 million of
non-recurring charges in 2004. The Group’s
tax rate benefits from the utilisation of
corporate tax losses brought forward
from previous years and R&D tax credits.
Gross cash balances at 31 December 2005
were £24.0 million (2004: £16.5 million). After
the deduction of £15 million medium-term
acquisition finance, the net cash balances
were £9.0 million (2004: £1.5 million). Cash
flow from operating activities increased by
11 per cent to £13.5 million. During 2005
the Group spent £2.4 million on acquisitions,
net of cash, in acquired businesses. 
Dividends paid during 2005 amounted
to £2.3 million representing 1.5p per share
in May and 0.75p in October. The directors
are proposing a final dividend for 2005 
of 1.75p per share which makes 2.5p 
per share for the year which will absorb
approximately £1.8 million in cash,
payable in May 2006.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
The Group operates through four geographic
regions; UK and Ireland (UKI), Central and
Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa
(CEEMEA), Asia Pacific and the Americas.
The growth and profitability generated in
all regions is due to the team’s commercial
and technical understanding of prevailing
“Systems Union is a global company with an enviable and
comprehensive solution portfolio and world wide distribution
network. We have a clear and achievable agenda which is
already proving itself and enter 2006 stronger than ever before.”
The Group’s comprehensive solutions
help global users to understand,
manage and improve business
performance and profitability.
World-class financial management
from SunSystems, exceptional analysis
and reporting capabilities from the
Vision suite and enterprise-wide
performance management delivered 
by the MIS portfolio. 06 Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
local, national and international market
dynamics and specific customer needs. 
UKI
Revenue grew by 5 per cent to £44 million
and represents 39 per cent of global
revenue. This region combines Systems
Union UK and Ireland together with
Pegasus, Foundation and REDtechnology. 
In Systems Union the operations of the
previously stand-alone acquisitions and
existing businesses were fully integrated 
in 2005 with a view to ensuring that all
product offerings and business solutions
were marketed and sold cohesively.
Significant successes were recorded
across the entire product portfolio with
notable wins including a development
agency in Scotland; a central government
department in London; a UK financial
institution; a global oil and gas provider;
a construction firm; a specialist travel agent;
an elite car manufacturer; a chemical
science organisation; a food retailer;
a property management organisation
and a leading employment specialist.
2005 was a year of further progress for
Pegasus; revenue grew by 6 per cent, with
significant licence sales generated from its
flagship Opera II solution. In addition, there
was an improvement in operating margins.
Foundation embraced the enlarged
portfolio and generated an encouraging 
6 per cent organic revenue growth.
REDtechnology recorded a 33 per cent
increase in revenue.
CEEMEA 
Revenue from ongoing activities grew by
7 per cent to £37.3 million and represents
33 per cent of global revenue. This region
now combines the previous operations of
Systems Union and MIS.
Underscoring this performance was
the securing of significant deals across
the region from a major Swiss retail group;
an engineering company in Germany;
an international courier service; a German
airport services organisation; a French
business and security services company; 
a substantial Swedish insurance company;
a leading rubber manufacturer; an Austrian
government department; a leading
automotive distribution company; a large
energy provider and a German financial
services provider. 
The Americas
Revenue grew by 23 per cent to £13.1 million
and represents 11 per cent of global
revenue. This region now combines the
previous operations of Systems Union, 
MIS and Lasata.
Systems Union is a global company
with an expanding partner community
around the world. 
Over 500 channel partners actively 
sell and support the Systems Union
solution portfolio, with 22 new partners
recruited during 2005.
PARTNERING WITH OUR RESELLERS
CASE STUDY 1
SUNSYSTEMS, MIS AND VISION
JMB REALTY
Chicago based JMB Realty Corporation
owns, develops and manages a variety
of large commercial real estate properties
throughout the world. 
INDUSTRY
Commercial property management
THE SOLUTIONS SELECTED
SunSystems financial management, 
MIS performance management solutions
and Vision pan-application reporting 
and analytics.
A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF WHAT WAS
DELIVERED AND THE BENEFITS
JMB’s primary goal was to move from an
accounting system to a complete business
solution. It needed faster, more accurate
reporting capabilities and a solution
capable of performing budgeting and
forecasting tasks. In addition the company
needed high data availability and reliability
along with tools to improve enterprise-wide
business intelligence. JMB selected
SunSystems, Vision and MIS solutions.
“Systems Union definitely lives
up to its claim of being a leading
software vendor. We anticipate
that the integrated range of
financial, reporting and business
intelligence solutions will serve
our organisation’s performance
management requirements for
the long term.”
Ron Godsey
senior vice president and controller 
at JMB Realty Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005 07
2005 saw growth in excess of 40 per cent
in services revenue, 8 per cent in licences
and 18 per cent in maintenance. Additionally
there were new and significant business
wins with a US based global insurance
provider; a financial services provider; 
a major Canadian airport; leading global
hoteliers; a leading energy provider; a
commercial real estate specialist; several 
oil and gas companies; an international
media company and a large commodities
trading house.
There has been considerable investment in
this region to drive future growth with a view
to reflecting the global importance of this
region. We extended our footprint by
opening offices in Los Angeles and Chicago. 
Asia Pacific
Revenue grew by 23 per cent to £19.0 million
and represents 17 per cent of global revenue.
This region now combines the previous
operations of Systems Union, MIS, Lasata
and Eclipse Asia.
The region achieved an increase of 56 per
cent in its consulting revenues, 21 per cent
in licences and 14 per cent in maintenance.
The Asia Pacific team secured contracts
with a Tokyo based manufacturer; a leading
accountancy practice; a Hong Kong based
freight services organisation; an educational
services provider and a consumer goods
provider both based in Australia; a global
coffee retailer and leading financial services
organisations in China and Japan. The team
has achieved a high rate of profitability and
is exploring new opportunities in the rapidly
expanding markets within the region. We
will also be opening new offices throughout
the region in 2006.
GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
The Group owns all of the intellectual
property rights (IPR) for its financial and
performance management solution
portfolio. We are committed to the
continual development, delivery and
support of a portfolio of first class financial
and performance management solutions
which enable our clients to manage,
understand and improve their businesses.
There were many enhancements made to
products during the course of the year which
were launched in 2005 and early 2006. 
Robust financial management systems will
always be critical to the integrity of an
organisation. Additionally the growth in the
business intelligence (BI) marketplace is
being driven by the ever more complex
regulatory environment; the increasingly
global nature of business transactions; the
requirement to reduce risk and respond
earlier to negative events; the need for
“The Group operates in four geographic regions: UKI, CEEMEA,
Asia Pacific and the Americas. The growth and profitability in
these regions is due to the team’s commercial and technical
understanding of prevailing local, national and international
market dynamics and specific customer needs.”
Significant successes generated across
the UKI region including a government
department, a global oil and gas
provider; a food retailer and a
construction firm. 
CASE STUDY 2
SUNSYSTEMS AND VISION 
NOBLE TRADING 
Noble Group Limited (SGX: NOBL) is 
a market leader in managing the global
supply chain of agricultural, industrial 
and energy products. The Group has over
70 offices in 42 countries serving more 
than 3,500 customers.  
INDUSTRY
Financial Services
THE SOLUTIONS SELECTED
SunSystems and Vision for robust financial
management, financial reporting and
business analytics. 
A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF WHAT WAS
DELIVERED AND THE BENEFITS
Noble Trading became a Systems Union
customer in 2005. It purchased more than 60
SunSystems licenses as well as the Vision
reporting solution for deployment in the 
US, Asia Pacific and Europe. Noble needs
deployment in multiple countries, works
with multiple currencies and languages, and
has robust financial, reporting and business
analytics requirements.
“Systems Union is a vendor we
know and trust. The SunSystems
solution has proven to be robust,
and reliable. Our US deployment
has gone live and the product’s
flexible and reliability has already
been proven. As we continue the
rollout into other regions, we see
SunSystems’ multi-currency,
flexibility, and analytic functions
as strong differentiators from
other vendors. Further, Systems
Union continues to offers us a
great product, with great service
and support.”
Steven Bader
chief finance officer 
at Noble Group Americas
44 structured training courses ensure
that staff and partners deliver service
and solution excellence to users
around the world. 08 Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
New business wins across The Americas region
including a global insurance provider, a major
Canadian airport, leading global hoteliers and 
an international media company.
In 2005 the Group was re-branded on the global
stage as the market leader in the provision of 
world-class financial and performance management
solutions to the mid-market.
PARTNERING WITH OUR STAFF
greater transparency and availability 
of up-to-the-minute enterprise-wide
information and the need to plan, budget
and forecast more effectively for the future.
Spreadsheets are no longer adequate and
organisations are looking for BI solutions
that offer database integrity, business rules,
access rules and audit trails, as well as a
common operating platform and secure
enterprise-wide access to data. Systems
Union is widely recognised as a leading
provider of a range of market-leading and
proven solutions for the mid-market.
Financial Management
SunSystems is a leading transactional
processing solution enabling the 
generation of mission critical, reliable and
comprehensive financial information. Its rich
functionality was recognised in July 2005
when SunSystems 5 was certified by KPMG
in Germany as offering compliance with
Sarbanes-Oxley and IFRS. 
There has been a substantial increase 
in sales of SunSystems exfm, which
remains a unique proposition in the
marketplace. This solution integrates
elements from across the portfolio into a
single solution combining core financials
with advanced reporting, budgeting and
forecasting capabilities along with a 
portal framework. 
SunSystems’ core functionality was
enhanced with the release of SunSystems
Procurement and Productivity (Time,
Expense and Resource) designed to help
organisations streamline and rationalise
purchasing, expense and time management
processes. In addition, in early 2006
SunSystems 5.2.2, a major release, was
launched incorporating new reporting 
and query management functionality. 
Pegasus launched innovative and
competitive products including Opera II
Enterprise SQL and Pegasus XRL for third
party software. It also launched Pegasus
CIS for the construction industry which
will aid regulatory compliance. 
Performance Management 
MIS solutions enjoyed notable successes
during 2005. We launched a series of
enhancements to the portfolio, including
MIS Balanced Scorecard, which was
developed to help customers communicate
strategy, set goals and measure and
monitor business performance in a
more efficient manner.
In addition, MIS solutions received
significant independent endorsements
including the influential OLAP (Online
Application Processing) Survey 5, which
reviewed 2,100 software implementations
+16%
EBITDA from ongoing activities increased 
to £16.5 million
+11%
Adjusted diluted EPS increased to 12.2p
CASE STUDY 3
SUNSYSTEMS AND VISION
51JOB
51job (Nasdaq:JOBS) is a leading human
resource solutions provider in China,
offering a broad array of services in the
areas of recruitment solutions, training
and assessment, and HR tools and
outsourcing services.
INDUSTRY
Human resource solutions
THE SOLUTIONS SELECTED
SunSystems financial management
and Vision pan-application reporting
and analytics.
A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF WHAT WAS
DELIVERED AND THE BENEFITS
As the first Chinese human resource solutions
company listed in the US NASDAQ, 51job
needed a financial management solution that
could help the company produce financial
reports compliant with international financial
reporting standards and statutory regulations.
It needed the capability to centrally manage
offices over China, with online access to
financial information. In addition, the
company needed a solution that is flexible
and scalable, and empowers users to run
multi-dimensional analysis and produce ad
hoc reports when and where needed. 51job
selected SunSystems and Vision solutions.
“SunSystems and Vision from
Systems Union provided 51job 
with a solution that is integrated,
comprehensive, effective and
highly intelligent, satisfying our
need for group and international
management. With these flexible
solutions and the international
support network of Systems Union
we are confident that our future
development will be supported.”
Rick Yan
chief executive officer 
at 51job Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005 09
in 71 countries and recognised MIS
solutions for high levels of user satisfaction,
excellent goal achievement rates and fast
implementation times. In addition, a new
release of DecisionWare was launched
in early 2006 together with a new version
of Enterprise Planning, delivering new 
multi-lingual capabilities. 
The Group formed strategic partnerships
to further extend the portfolio and market
reach of MIS solutions. Germany’s leading
mid-market financer, The Sparkassen
Financial Syndicate, has released software
based on MIS technology, while a
partnership with a global telecoms giant
delivered a mobile reporting solution. 
Reporting
Vision is a powerful pan-application
reporting and analytics suite. Among
our significant R&D achievements for 2005
was the development of Vision Reporting
Services, which is based on Microsoft.Net
technology. By developing this solution we
have removed our utilisation of third party
reporting solutions.
Vision’s extensive reporting on real-time
data and drill down across multiple products
was enhanced with the launch of Serduct
Studio in June. This offering enables
organisations to build Serducts, Vision’s data
mapping technology, which in turn enables
reporting applications to deliver live reporting
and analysis across multiple data sources
including competitive products. 
MARKETING
During 2005 the global marketing team has
successfully re-branded and re-launched
Systems Union’s corporate positioning 
as a market leader in the provision of 
world-class financial and performance
management solutions to the mid-market.
This new positioning is designed to reflect
the breadth and depth of Systems Union’s
solution portfolio and to recognise the
changing needs of CFOs who continue 
to demand excellence in financial
transactional processing but who 
also now require proactive business 
intelligence tools to drive improved
business performance.
A globally co-ordinated marketing
programme has been executed to launch
the new Systems Union corporate identity
and promote the Group’s unique market
proposition. This has resulted in improved
coverage of Systems Union’s solutions by
market leading industry analysts such as
Gartner and the OLAP survey, the winning
of a number of industry awards, and a
significant improvement to the sales
pipeline year on year.
The CEEMEA region generated notable successes
including a major Swiss retail group, an international
courier service, an Austrian government department
and a German financial services provider.
+10%
We have increased our staff numbers 
to 1,442 
45 offices
Global reach with offices across four
geographic regions
63 new releases
The Group owns all the IPR for its financial
and performance management portfolio
CASE STUDY 4
MIS AND VISION
AMES
Adult Multicultural Education Services
(AMES) employs around 865 people 
and delivers educational and wider
support services to over 49,000 people 
in Australia. 
INDUSTRY
Not-for-profit
THE SOLUTIONS SELECTED
Vision pan-application reporting and MIS
performance management solutions
A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF WHAT WAS
DELIVERED AND THE BENEFITS
In selecting the Vision and MIS portfolio
AMES can easily consolidate corporate
information, drawing data from disparate
systems into a single centralised system
that provides a unified view of all data in
a consistent format. 
The solutions are functionally rich, highly
intuitive and readily customisable and the
data generated is available in real-time. 
“Fundamentally we were looking
for an integrated solution
approach across our financial and
wider management systems that
was also cost effective to operate.”
Tony Harding
IT manager 
for AMES
The Group’s financial, technical and
commercial progress was recognised
by independent analysts and awards
programmes including the Gartner
CPM Magic Quadrant, the Deloitte
Technology Fast 50, OLAP Survey 5
and MIS Asia Magazine’s Top 100
Technology Companies.  10 Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005
portfolio and the result has been that our
solutions enable finance professionals to
take advantage of enterprise wide financial
and performance information. The result
is that focus can now be placed on
added value activities such as evaluating
strategies, assessing how to drive top line
growth, improve the bottom line, and use
assets more effectively. All of which
contribute to delivering improved overall
business performance. 
Further investment has been made in our
new .Net based technology framework
which enables us to achieve even faster
and even more efficient development in
the future. It provides us with a robust
architecture on which we extend the
breadth of our solutions and offer
quantifiable benefits to our customers. 
We have also implemented a zero defects
strategy to deliver even higher levels of
product quality. 
SUPPORT AND SERVICES
The Group’s support network comprises
two SuperCentres, a network of regional
support centres on four continents, as well
as an international team of highly skilled
consultants, professional services, pre-sales
and solution experts. We continue to invest
in our ability to provide timely, professional
The second phase of this re-branding
has also now been executed with the 
re-branding of the three global Systems
Union solutions of SunSystems, Vision
and MIS. The logos for these solutions have
now been conformed to the same look and
feel to reflect the cohesive nature of the
integrated financial and performance
management suite. In addition, a new
corporate positioning message of ‘manage,
understand, improve’ has been launched
to reinforce the respective value
propositions of the global solutions –
SunSystems helping organisations manage
their businesses more efficiently through
best of breed transactional processing,
Vision helping companies improve their
understanding of financial and operational
activities via powerful real-time reporting
and analysis, and MIS driving business
improvement with a comprehensive portfolio
of performance management tools.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The information needs of users have
changed and the demand for business,
financial and wider management
information to be available in a unified and
consistent format is increasing. We have
responded with further investment in our
cohesive R&D road map. Our global R&D
teams work collaboratively to ensure
maximum productivity across the entire
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Over 50,000 global customer sites around the world
benefit from Systems Union’s world-class portfolio of
financial and performance management solutions
and support services.
Systems Union’s staff and management are
committed to the ongoing success and profitability
of the Company. 
PARTNERING WITH OUR CLIENTS
CASE STUDY 5
MIS
DB REGIO
DB Regio provides rail services linking
cities and rural areas throughout Germany. 
INDUSTRY
Transportation and logistics
THE SOLUTIONS SELECTED
MIS performance management solutions
A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF WHAT WAS
DELIVERED AND THE BENEFITS
Using a custom built MIS solution DB
Regio has improved the productivity of its
personnel. Shift patterns are entered via the
web and the information generated is used
to understand productivity levels enabling
benchmarked key performance indicators
to be introduced. DB Regio is now able to
effectively plan, schedule and analyse over
260,000 individual shifts per month and this
information is used to ensure that the entire
train service runs smoothly. 
“The entire concept, a relational
and multi-dimensional database
with web-based reporting on top,
is so simple for our users. And
it works! 
Our work environment has
drastically improved on account
of the added transparency in the
planning process. I know that the
system is in high demand based
on the growing user lists.”
Frank Wundrich
project manager and director 
of process optimisation 
for DB Regio Northeast Systems Union Group plc annual report and accounts 2005 11
and highly responsive service and support
standards for our partners and users around
the world. 
Our support consultants are closely
involved with our customers from early
in the sales cycle and work closely with
the professional services and pre-sales
teams. This ensures team-wide understanding
of specific installations and ensures that
customers receive ongoing expert and
personalised support.
We offer a comprehensive customer
support system with a global IP telephony
system routing customer calls from around
the world to the best available consultant
who speaks their local language. The ‘follow
the sun’ support initiative diverts calls placed
out of office hours to the nearest open
support desk. We offer multi-lingual support
on a 24 hour, 5 day a week basis. 
STAFF
Systems Union’s staff and management 
are committed to the ongoing success and
profitability of our company. We possess a
capable and experienced team who ensure
we deliver service and solution excellence
to our customers around the world. 
I am proud to be the chief executive officer
of Systems Union and would like to thank
every member of the team for their hard
work, support and dedication. 
2006 AND BEYOND
2005 has been a year of record results
for the Group. We have exceeded market
expectations in terms of revenue growth
and profitability. Operationally our solution
portfolio has been enhanced with the
addition of new ‘value-add’ functionality and
we have invested further in our staff, our
partner communities, our global infrastructure
and our service and support network. 
Systems Union is a truly global company
with an enviable and comprehensive solution
portfolio and world wide distribution network.
We have a clear and achievable agenda
which is already proving itself. We enter 2006
stronger than ever before with continued
optimism for future growth.
PAUL COLEMAN
Chief Executive Officer
27 February 2006
“2005 has been a record year for the Group. We have
exceeded market expectations in terms of revenue growth
and profitability. Operationally our solution portfolio has been
enhanced and we have invested further in our staff, partners,
global infrastructure and service and support network.”
The Asia Pacific team secured contracts with
a leading accountancy practice, an educational
services provider in Australia and leading financial
services organisations in China and Japan. 
CASE STUDY 6
PEGASUS
SCOTMIN NUTRITION
Founded in 1979, Scotmin Nutrition (part
of the Buccleuch Group) develops and
manufactures animal feed supplements. 
INDUSTRY
Agriculture
THE SOLUTIONS SELECTED
Pegasus Opera II and Operations II
A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF WHAT WAS
DELIVERED AND THE BENEFITS
Scotmin Nutrition evaluated a number of
leading market solutions before upgrading
its existing Pegasus portfolio to Opera II
and Operations II. In addition, Scotmin
selected TSG Scotland, a Pegasus Gold
Partner, as its partner in the delivery and
support of the project. The company now
benefits from access to the new
functionality, comprehensive financial
information, rapid reporting and ease of
use delivered by the Pegasus portfolio. 
“It was important to us that we
selected solutions and a partner
with a proven track record. We
found both with Pegasus and TSG.
We are particularly impressed with
the superb gross margin reporting
capabilities offered by Pegasus
solutions. Having access to such
comprehensive financial information
enables us to understand and
manage our business more
effectively and efficiently.”
Alan Runciman CA 
financial controller 
at Scotmin Nutrition
