 10
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Abcam plc
Chief Executive Officer’s review
I am delighted to report on another successful year for Abcam, 
with sales at £71.1m and strong growth of 25.2% (23.1% on 
a constant currency basis). We continued to attract many new 
customers and gain market share through a combination of 
continually adding high quality products to our catalogue, 
increasing validation of our existing products with a rigorous 
focus on data gathering and presentation, and providing high 
levels of customer service and support.
We also continue to invest to drive longer-term growth but, thanks 
to tight cost control and the operational gearing in the business, 
profit before tax increased by 58.4% to £25.8m (2009: £16.3m 
after a £1.1m charge associated with the restructuring at the 
production facility).
Market review
Sales in North America grew by 20.1% to $50.2m (£31.8m) 
(2009: $41.8m, £26.2m), representing 44.7% of our total sales 
for the year. We have continued to extend our commitment to 
improving service levels in the year, particularly on the West Coast 
where we have opened a small office in San Francisco to increase 
access to customer support in the region and to promote Abcam 
in the local market. Our programme of targeting other areas 
which we believe have high potential for sales growth has also 
contributed to this increase, which is a pleasing result in a 
highly competitive market. 
We have improved our service offering in Europe during the year. 
Local language support is now available for extended periods 
each day to allow better access for researchers to our customer 
support teams and we are now able to offer same-day receipt 
and despatch of orders to more customers across Europe. 
Emphasising knowledge, 
training and experience
We are building a great company by recruiting 
excellent people. Our Company culture is one that 
empowers individuals with responsibility given at an 
early stage. We are able to attract and retain the best 
calibre employees by creating a challenging yet fun 
environment where everyone is working together 
for success.
CORPORATE CUlTURE
“ I am delighted to report on another successful year for Abcam, with 
sales at £71.1m and strong growth of 25.2%.”
Jonathan Milner Chief Executive Officer
This year team leaders from 
across the organisation took 
part in a management framework 
programme, ensuring excellent 
people management throughout 
the business. 
We have an open plan environment 
that encourages communication 
between departments. Ideas and 
problems are shared for the 
best outcome.  11
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
In addition, we have been successful in appointing non-exclusive 
distributors within certain European countries to enable us to sell 
to organisations not otherwise accessible to us. Sales to Europe 
grew by 20.5% to €22.7m (£20.0m) (2009: €18.9m, £16.3m), 
representing 28.2% of our total sales for the year.
We also had a successful year in the UK, which is our most 
highly penetrated market and where we have a market leadership 
position. Sales grew by 15.3% to £5.6m (2009: £4.9m), representing 
7.9% of our total sales for the year. The growth rate in the second 
half of the financial year was slightly higher than in the first half 
but the funding pressures we saw in the first half are still a feature 
of the market.
We continued the development of relationships with our network 
of sub-dealers in Japan, who have handled all our sales since 
January 2009. Working with them enables us to get closer to 
our customers than was previously the case and to build on the 
feedback we receive to better identify and fulfil our customers’ 
requirements. Sales in Japan grew by 39.7% to ¥983m (£6.8m) 
(2009: ¥704m, £4.6m), representing 9.5% of our total sales 
for the year.
We opened our sales and marketing office in Hong Kong in July 2009 
initially to drive sales in China and Hong Kong, but with the longer-term 
aim of taking on the management of our distributor network in 
South East Asia. It has been a very busy year for the team as they 
have been recruiting staff, appointing distributors in China and 
improving our delivery capability into China through the selection 
of a local company to handle the importation of our products. 
“The supply chain team specialises 
in the management of our stock pipeline. We work 
with a variety of departments ensuring customers 
get the products they want quickly. A key 
achievement during the final quarter of the 
year has been fulfilling over 78% of orders 
directly from stock.”
Above Our in-house manufacturing laboratory specialises in purification 
techniques; a vital step in isolating single proteins of interest 
laura 
Supply Chain and 
Customs Operations
We undertake regular staff surveys to gather feedback 
and ensure everyone has a voice. See what staff said 
about Abcam on the inside back cover.
In-house  
testing 12
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Abcam plc
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Market review continued
We expect it will take several years to develop our position in 
the Chinese market to its full potential but we have made good 
progress in the year as sales to Hong Kong and China grew by 
62.2% to HK$34.3m (£2.8m) (2009: HK$21.1m, £1.7m), or 
3.9% of total sales.
Sales to the rest of the world, which is predominantly the 
remainder of South East Asia and is mostly served through local 
distributors, increased by 29.8% to $6.5m (£4.1m) (2009: $5.0m, 
£3.1m), representing 5.8% of total sales for the year. We continue 
to work closely with our distributor network and build on initiatives 
to improve our proximity to our researchers, which is a recurring 
theme throughout our business, and will be assisted by our 
South East Asian business now being managed locally through 
our Hong Kong office. 
Catalogue growth
We have increased the number of products in the catalogue 
by 20.2% during the year to 63,010, including over 50,000 
antibodies. Of the 10,610 new products, over 7,700 are 
antibodies from our supplier base, which continues to give us 
access to many top quality antibodies, and almost 700 were our 
own produced antibodies. We have also extended the breadth 
of antibody-related reagents we offer by over 2,200 products, 
including adding more ELISA kits, IHC reagents, proteins and 
other protein detection tools. The largest by number were proteins 
and growth in protein sales in the year was over 50% at £1.2m.
Developing our business 
through communication
We value communication: with our staff, suppliers, 
customers and the scientific community. Ideally we like 
to meet face to face at tradeshows, conferences and 
key account activities. One way for us to gain insight 
into customer needs is with focus groups. In the past 
year we held three, meeting with scientists and discussing 
the challenges they face in their labs today.
CUSTOMER EngAgEMEnT
We run quarterly surveys to 
speak with customers and monitor 
satisfaction with our products 
and services. 
Our market research team is able to gather intelligence 
quickly by polling customers on a range of topics. We act 
swiftly on feedback and inform future business decisions. 
Above Our open plan environment fosters cross-departmental 
communication, everyone working together for the best outcome
Developing 
leaders 13
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
New products added during the year contributed £2.7m to 
sales in total, representing 3.8% of total sales. As information is 
added to these products through external publications, customer 
feedback and our own characterisation, we expect sales from 
them to increase over time.
During the year we refined our inventory purchasing methodology 
with the aim of improving customer service levels by increasing 
the number of orders that can be fulfilled directly from stock. 
This has resulted in an increase in inventory on a selective basis 
and as a result the closing inventory level was £9.1m (2009: £6.8m). 
eCommerce and marketing
The performance of the website is key to our success and during 
the year we have continued to invest to improve both the website 
functionality and accessibility. The response time for users around 
the world has improved by an average of 29% during the year 
and we have launched a Chinese version of the site to support 
our marketing initiatives in that region. 
We pride ourselves on our ability to work closely across our 
business disciplines. For example, our eCommerce, IT and 
marketing departments work together on our ongoing programme 
aimed at making the marketing to our customer database more 
effective and more relevant. This has been very successful over 
the years and continues to drive record numbers of visits to our 
website, which saw an increase of 29% over last year. 
The development and implementation of a new software 
module means that we can now undertake promotional activities 
which can be targeted at particular audiences and at particular 
complementary product ranges, making our marketing much 
more efficient and cost effective. We look forward to building on 
our eCommerce model, which will serve us well as we expand our 
range of protein detection tools. 
Our conference programme is a very effective marketing tool, 
enabling us to promote Abcam at the same time as hearing first 
hand from speakers and attendees about new developments at 
the cutting edge of research. In the 2009/10 financial year we 
held over a dozen events in locations across the world, and were 
delighted with the calibre of speakers we were able to attract. 
The year also saw record levels of customer satisfaction with 
the scientific quality of the conferences and several events were 
oversubscribed, demonstrating our increased success in this area. 
Our production facility
We reorganised our production facility during the 2008/09 
financial year, since which time great strides forward have 
been made in terms of production efficiency and in meeting our 
ongoing commitment to increase characterisation data on our 
products. The images provided by the production facility feed 
into our strategy of continually adding data to the catalogue from 
a range of sources, which this year included a continuation of 
our programme of commissioning data provision from selected 
third parties.
“ We have increased the number of products in the catalogue by 20.2% 
during the year to 63,010, including over 50,000 antibodies.”
“This year we're redesigning our product 
datasheets. These represent the most important 
content on our website so we created a beta site 
allowing us to share and seek feedback on the new 
design and functionality, in advance of a 
mainstream launch.”
Kieran
Business Development
Our library of technical 
literature is very popular 
with customers who use 
them as teaching aids.  14
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Abcam plc
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Our production facility continued
Production in the year was at record levels through improved 
management of our product pipeline and an overhaul of our 
processes, which also saw the introduction of a new quality control 
system to ensure quality is maintained as production increases. 
Efficiency initiatives and people
A review of the year would not be complete without reference to 
our drive for efficiency improvements, which has been an integral 
part of our thinking since the Company was founded. During the 
year, we have reduced the size of our packaging and designed a 
smaller format of the data sheets which we use when shipping 
products to customers. This has increased efficiency as the new 
packs are easier to handle, whilst also improving our ability to 
maintain a temperature-controlled environment during shipping. 
As part of this initiative we redesigned the holders in which we 
ship vials to make them smaller and lighter. The new holders are 
coloured, inter-connecting Abcam-branded bricks, helping to 
improve efficiency whilst also representing a significant marketing 
opportunity, and have been a great success with customers.
The dedication, ability and sheer enthusiasm of our staff are an 
inspiration and it is their efforts that are behind the Company’s 
achievements, so enormous thanks to them. I would also like to 
welcome Mike Redmond as our new Chairman, who is already 
making a significant contribution to the Board.
Fostering a creative 
approach
To ensure we maintain efficiency and develop our 
product offering, employees are encouraged to 
champion their ideas. This culture of improvement and 
innovation ensures we have a pipeline of opportunities 
to assess, creating added value to customers whilst 
increasing profitability of the Group. If it’s something 
we’re passionate about and is beneficial to customers 
and the business, we’ll make it happen.
COnSTAnT InnOv ATIOn
“ The dedication, ability and sheer enthusiasm of our staff are an 
inspiration and it is their efforts that are behind the Company’s 
achievements.”
Processing thousands of 
orders every year we spend a lot 
of time labelling products. With no 
automated solution on the market, 
we co-developed an automated vial 
labelling machine. This improved 
the efficiency of our operation teams 
four-fold and the design patent 
offers future licensing opportunities. 
Above Our characteristic packaging is very popular with customers; 
reducing waste and giving storage flexibility 
We’ve also integrated dry ice shipping facilities enabling us to 
provide customers with a more extensive range of temperature 
sensitive proteins.
Innovative 
packaging
 
  For more on our staff and their thoughts on 
working at Abcam turn to the inside back cover 15
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Abcam is uniquely positioned
Pressure on Governments to address deficits 
could reduce research funding which may 
impact our business.
Resilient business model – geographically well 
hedged with global reach.
Business continues to be highly cash generative 
with a strong balance sheet.
Global market demand for research antibody 
reagents continues to increase.
An exciting and challenging time as we look to 
both strengthen our leading market position and 
capitalise on new opportunities in protein 
detection and regulation studies.
Extending into these areas through organic 
(OEM-type) deals as well as strategic 
investment possibilities.
Strategic development
Abcam’s ruthless focus on giving our customers the widest 
possible choice of antibody research tools for detection and study 
of their proteins has created a very successful business which has 
been able to continually and sustainably generate significant 
value for all its stakeholders. We have a proven and defensible 
business model, delivering strong underlying growth with the 
potential to expand by leveraging our eCommerce model, supply 
side strategy, strong brand and customer base. 
This is an exciting and challenging time for Abcam as we look to 
both strengthen our market position as the leader in antibody 
research tools and at the same time expand our product offering 
into the broader area of protein detection and regulation studies. 
We believe that we are well placed to achieve these goals. 
Abcam’s success to date has resulted from our single-minded 
focus on refining our core business model and incrementally 
expanding it so that it is aligned to the needs of the researcher, 
supporting them in the study of proteins, to unlock the secrets of 
cells in health and disease. This is a commitment that we at 
Abcam have all signed up to deliver through a combination of 
continuing organic growth, for example via OEM-type deals, and 
also looking for strategic investment opportunities.
Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
6 September 2010
Elodie
Business Intelligence 
and Opportunities
We place considerable value on the 
involvement of our employees  
turn to page 26 for an overview of our 
corporate, social and ethical policies
“The BIO team works to  
identify exciting ideas, from new business 
opportunities to operational efficiencies, and 
turns the most valuable ideas into projects. 
This year one of our projects was to introduce 
platforms to handle new product types.” 
