 6 Chief Executive’s Statement
Adult Gaming Centres AGC like for like
sales in the second half of 2005 were
ahead by nine per cent and year on year
mature business growth in all regions of
the country continues to be very strong,
despite the challenging retail environment.
Much of our growth has come from 
the introduction of Section 1 6 (“S- 1 6”)
machines that operate with a maximum
stake of £2 and a top cash payout of £500
compared to the 30p stake and £25 payout
in the majority of the machine estate. This
introduction has outweighed much of the
downside that we might otherwise have
encountered from the view taken by the
government that any increase in stakes 
and prizes for AWP machines must be held
back until after the new Gambling Act is
enacted in September 2007 .
T otal pro forma AGC sales were £47 .85m
(2004: £43.75m), up year on year by 9%.
Operating proﬁt at £7 .7m (before goodwill
amortisation of £1 . 1m) was up 30%
(2004: £5.9m). Blackheath exhibited the
strongest sales growth, reﬂecting the fact
its sites are all located in London where 
S- 1 6 machines have started most strongly.
The second half beneﬁted from the
accelerated roll out of S- 1 6 machines
towards our target of four in each centre.
This roll out was actually achieved at the
end of February 2006, about a month
ahead of our original plans. 
Operating Review Using the Quicksilver
business as the foundation for consolidation
of the high street gaming market, the
Group completed two acquisitions during
the year at attractive multiples. On 7 July
2005 the Group acquired Leisure
Promotions Ltd and In T o Save Ltd
(together “Leisure Promotions”) at a total
consideration of £1 1m. Leisure Promotions
operated 1 3 Adult Gaming Centres (“ AGCs”)
across Northern England and Scotland
with over 1 ,300 gaming machines. The
Group also acquired Blackheath Leisure
(Carousel) Ltd (“Blackheath”) on
7 November 2005 for £20m. Blackheath
operated 24 sites in London with an estate
of nearly 1 ,300 machines. 
By the year-end the Group was operating
1 64 sites and approximately 9,000
machines. 
During the period the Group continued
to make good progress both operationally
and ﬁnancially. T o assist the understanding
of the underlying performance of the
business, additional segmental
information has been included below 
for Quicksilver and Blackheath. Leisure
Promotions was fully integrated within
three months and is included within the
Quicksilver ﬁgures. The three businesses
have been treated as though they had
existed as the “Enlarged Group” for the
whole of the current and prior year; the
current year being 52 weeks in length 
and last year being 53 weeks.
Nick Harding Chief Executive
AGC like-for-like sales were
ahead by 9% and year-on-year
mature business growth in all
regions of the country continues
to be very strong despite the
challenging retail environment.
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:16 am  Page 6 7 Annual Report 2005
T otal EBITDA was £1 3. 1m up 24% on last
year (2004: £1 0.5m). Our EBITDA margin
was strong, progressing from 24. 1% to
27 .3%. Overall our aim is to deliver an
EBITDA margin closer to 30% as we
switch all the store facia to Quicksilver and
achieve synergies across the Group. All
Leisure Promotions stores have now been
re-branded as Quicksilver. The Blackheath
stores will be re-branded by the end of
April 2006, and Leisurama by the end 
of July 2006.
In addition to the post balance sheet
acquisition of Leisurama on 2 March 2006
(which brings a further 1 9 units at a cost 
of £1 2m and at a prospective EBITDA
multiple of 5. 1 times), we have also
identiﬁed two new sites as part of our
aim of opening eight new greenﬁeld sites
in 2006. 
Interactive Cyberslotz, our internet gaming
business, continues to show strong growth,
both in terms of ‘drop’ and operating proﬁt.
Sales grew by 30% to £1 .7m (2004:
£1 .3m) and operating proﬁt increased
to £0.2m from last year’s £0.08m.
We continue to add new games to the site
to provide freshness and choice for our
players. At the year end the site featured
25 games. The sales trend for the ﬁrst ten
weeks of the year has moved well above
the year on year growth rate experienced
last year.
Our strong player retention was backed 
up by market research conﬁrming that
there was exceptionally strong loyalty 
to the Cyberslotz brand and site. We are
strengthening the management team 
to improve marketing and promotional
support and provide the skills necessary 
to enhance both the customer-facing
elements of our site and the back of house
service and support. This also provides us
with the conﬁdence to sustain the growth
of our white-label interactive service,
known as “Interslotz”, where we added
two new business afﬁliates in the year
to take the total to 16.
We have recently enhanced the senior
team with the appointment of Nick
Pearson who joined us from Camelot 
as IT Director. His focus has been on
systematically planning the development 
of the existing site and then preparing 
it to be marketed more widely, as it is
currently only made available in the UK. 
Competitive advantage Efﬁcient machine
estate management is at the core of our
business. We constantly ensure that we
own the optimum mix of gaming machines,
install them in the appropriate sites and
provide the right environment to provide 
an enjoyable customer experience. 
We must be innovative with our product 
to sustain customer interest. Our large
machine estate and in depth product
knowledge allows us to experiment and
innovate with new games and concepts,
then roll out the successful machines at
considerably lower risk than our
competitors, continually optimising the
performance of our estate. We are also
able to extract economies of scale in
buying and maintenance from owning the
largest number of machines in the UK
high street. We have seen the continued
beneﬁt of this approach during the period,
especially with the accelerated roll out 
of S-1 6 machines. 
During this year we have introduced
Quick-Bet sports book electronic terminal
betting alongside our Camden AGC and
will repeat this at another site shortly. We
are also exploring the expertise we have
gained in the high street bingo market and
our Metro Bingo offering. The acquisition
of Leisurama has brought us to 2 1 bingo
lounges contained within AGCs and
provides another potential avenue for
growth for the Group.
2 1 bingo lounges contained within AGCs
provides another potential avenue for
growth for the Group.
+9%
T otal pro forma AGC sales were £47 .85m
(2004: £43.75m), up year on year by 9%. 
+30%
AGC operating proﬁt at £7 .7m (before
goodwill amortisation of £1 . 1m) was up 30%
(2004: £5.9m). 
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:16 am  Page 7 8 Delivering the Best Experience
DELIVERING 
THE BEST
EXPERIENCE
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  1:15 pm  Page 8 9 Annual Report 2005
One of our key strengths lies in our people,
many of whom have given us signiﬁcant
years of service and are highly experienced
gaming operators.
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  1:16 pm  Page 9 10 Chief Executive’s Statement
Legislation and regulation Under the 2005
Gambling Act further reforms of UK gaming
will take effect from 2007 . We continue to
view the change positively. In particular, we
are pleased that “Category B3” machines
will take the place of the very successful
S-1 6 machines. We remain positive despite
the December 2005 withdrawal of the
VA T-exempt status of S- 1 6 machines and
also the Government’s stated intention
to align the level of Amusement Machine
Licence Duty across all categories of
gaming machine. We have already set
in motion plans to mitigate any detrimental
impact this may have. 
From 26 March 2006 a ban will be
imposed on smoking in public places
in Scotland, where we operate 1 0 of our
1 83 centres. We have taken various actions
to comply with the ban and will be trying
certain innovative approaches to continue
to provide a superior experience for our
customers. The fact that the legislation
is comprehensive in nature means it is
only likely to have a short-term impact as
customers adapt to the change. It will also
act as a very good indicator of the likely
impact of the UK-wide ban due in the
summer of 2007 , and enables us to
monitor the effect of our innovations.
We believe the Cyberslotz gaming engine
is unique in the remote gaming sector. 
We design, build and operate all our own
software. Thus we have an open platform
with a wide range of slot gaming products
from a number of different suppliers –
our own virtual gaming machine lounge. 
We continue to explore the opportunities
of new technology. We are currently
trialling our online games on the mobile
phone platform, using the opportunity 
to leverage our existing online gaming
expertise and maximise revenue from 
our nationwide customer base. 
Quicksilver has led the development 
of the UK AGC market over the past ﬁve
years with a wide range of customer
service innovations to make its AGCs the
gaming venue of choice on the high street.
We position ourselves ﬁrmly in the low
stake, high volume high street gaming
market where our principal objective is 
to provide ‘gaming entertainment’ for the
retail shopper. Our venues mainly trade 
in line with retail hours, hence a key
differentiator is our focus on providing
superior customer service.
We position ourselves ﬁrmly in
the low stake, high volume, high-
street gaming market where our
principal objective is to provide
“gaming entertainment” for the
retail shopper.
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:17 am  Page 10 Annual Report 2005
Our people. The number of T alarius
employees continues to grow in line with
our acquisitions and is now slightly over
1 ,000. We ﬁrmly believe that one of our
key strengths lies in our people, many 
of whom have given us signiﬁcant years 
of service and are highly experienced
gaming operators. All our staff receive
regular customer service training. We 
also use ‘mystery shoppers’ to monitor
standards of service and presentation. 
We continue to review and upgrade our
recruitment and training policies through
our HR department, which also regularly
reviews beneﬁts packages for all team
members to ensure that we are generally
within the upper quartile of the market. 
One of the beneﬁts of our stock market
listing was the opportunity to make a
signiﬁcant number of senior and middle
managers share option holders. In late
March 2006 we intend to introduce a
‘Save as you earn’ share scheme open
to all staff. I want to thank all employees
of the Group for their contribution to our
success and I hope many of them take 
the opportunity to become shareholders.
Nick Harding
Chief Executive
We have introduced Quick-Bet, sports book
electronic terminal betting alongside our
Camden AGC and will repeat this at another
site shortly. 
11
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  1:16 pm  Page 11 CREA TING
WINNING
ENVIRONMENTS
12 Creating Winning Environments
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:17 am  Page 12 13
“We have taken various
actions to comply 
with the ban and will
be trying certain
innovative approaches
to continue to provide 
a superior experience
for our customers.” 
Annual Report 2005
XTA001_Talarius_AW4.qxp  7/4/06  2:17 am  Page 13
