 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
Headline EBITDA
+25
%
2011
2010
£m
221
276
 
Operating free cash flow
+31
%
2011
2010
£m
119
156
 
07
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
TalkTalk	 delivered	 a	 strong	 all	 round	 performance,	 in	 a	 year	 of	
major	 change	 across	 the	 whole	 business.	 In	 our	 first	 year	 as	 a	
stand	 alone	 company	 we	 added	 almost	 500k	 customers	 to	 our	
own	 network,	 improved	 ARPU	 by	 6%,	 grew	 Headline	 EBITDA	
by	 25%,	 and	 Operating	 free	 cash	 flow	 by	 31%.
Integration
Our	 priority	 during	 the	 year	 was	 the	 integration	 of	 the	 former	
Tiscali	 business.	 This	 was	 a	 complex	 process	 that	 included	
transferring	 all	 former	 Tiscali	 customers	 onto	 TalkTalk	 branded	
price	 plans,	 moving	 them	 onto	 our	 email	 platform,	 migrating	 	
a	 substantial	 majority	 of	 them	 onto	 our	 extended	 network,	 	
and	 moving	 their	 billing	 details	 onto	 our	 upgraded	 billing	
system.	 We	 successfully	 completed	 all	 the	 major	 elements	 	
of	 this	 program	 by	 the	 year	 end	 and	 delivered	 our	 run	 	
rate	 target	 of	 £55m	 of	 annual	 synergies.	
During	 this	 process	 a	 number	 of	 customers	 suffered	 disruption,	
which	 caused	 higher	 levels	 of	 complaints	 and	 churn,	 and	 gave	
rise	 to	 a	 formal	 Ofcom	 investigation.	 We	 have	 worked	 hard	 to	
mitigate	 the	 impact	 of	 the	 disruption	 on	 our	 customers,	 and	
to	 address	 the	 specific	 billing	 problem	 highlighted	 by	 Ofcom,	
which	 we	 believe	 has	 now	 been	 resolved.	 As	 customers	 are	
migrated	 onto	 our	 own	 network	 and	 systems,	 their	 experience	
improves	 significantly	 and	 churn	 reduces.	
Implementing our strategy
With	 4.2	 million	 broadband	 customers,	 and	 the	 UK’s	 most	
extensive	 and	 most	 advanced	 ‘Next	 Generation	 Network’,	 our	
aim	 now	 is	 to	 realise	 the	 potential	 of	 this	 scale	 for	 the	 benefit	
of	 both	 customers	 and	 Shareholders.	 We	 therefore	 launched	 	
a	 new	 strategy	 in	 November,	 and	 have	 made	 good	 progress	
implementing	 this.	
The	 strategy	 is	 focused	 around	 five	 areas,	 and	 aims	 to	 deliver	
our	 medium-term	 financial	 objectives	 of	 20%	 Headline	 EBITDA	
margin	 and	 2%	 revenue	 CAGR.
“ This was a strong all round performance in  
a year of major change across the business. 
We have made good progress implementing 
our strategy, by extending our network, driving 
operating efficiencies, and offering customers 
consistently best value for money services.”
Dido Harding 
Chief	Executive	Officer 08
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
continued
1. Extending our network
We	 ended	 the	 year	 with	 our	 own	 advanced	 equipment	 in	 2,007	
of	 the	 UK’s	 local	 telephone	 exchanges,	 covering	 over	 86%	 of	
the	 country’s	 households.	 These	 unbundled	 exchanges	 are	
linked	 to	 our	 core	 national	 Next	 Generation	 Network	 by	 our	
high	 capacity,	 low	 cost	 backhaul	 circuits.	 This	 all	 IP	 network	
enables	 us	 to	 manage	 multiple	 services	 efficiently,	 control	
service	 quality,	 and	 develop	 new	 services	 rapidly	 and	
cost	 effectively.
Unbundling	 delivers	 substantial	 benefits	 including	 higher	
ARPU	 and	 lower	 churn	 across	 the	 customer	 base,	 access	 to	
inbound	 call	 termination	 revenue,	 lower	 regulated	 charges,	
and	 lower	 backhaul	 costs.	 Migrating	 our	 customers	 onto	 our	
network	 delivers	 a	 better	 experience	 for	 our	 customers,	 the	
opportunity	 to	 offer	 them	 more	 products	 and	 a	 rapid	 return	 	
on	 the	 investment.	
We	 are	 now	 extending	 our	 network	 by	 unbundling	 a	 further	
700	 exchanges.	 This	 will	 bring	 our	 coverage	 up	 to	 93%	 of	 the	
UK’s	 households,	 and	 with	 2,700	 unbundled	 exchanges	 our	
aim	 is	 to	 serve	 93%	 of	 our	 customers	 on	 our	 own	 network.	
2. Improving operating efficiency and effectiveness
Our	 target	 is	 to	 generate	 £40-50m	 of	 operating	 efficiencies	
over	 the	 medium-term,	 by	 simplifying	 our	 business	 processes,	
eliminating	 duplication,	 and	 in	 doing	 so	 deliver	 a	 better	 service	
to	 our	 customers.	
Towards	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year	 we	 launched	 a	 major	 organisation	
restructuring	 that	 will	 generate	 £25m	 of	 operating	 efficiencies	
annually.	 Changes	 include	 integrating	 all	 our	 technology	 and	 	
IT	 capabilities	 into	 one	 organisation	 and	 streamlining	 all	 our	
non	 customer	 facing	 business	 operations.	 These	 changes	
will	 also	 greatly	 improve	 the	 quality	 of	 the	 end	 to	 end	
experience	 we	 deliver	 to	 our	 customers,	 which	 will	 enable	
us	 to	 address	 customer	 services	 issues	 and	 start	 to	 reduce	
our	 overall	 customer	 service	 costs.	
3. Delivering value for money quad play services
We	 are	 committed	 to	 providing	 an	 expanding	 range	 of	 clear,	
value	 for	 money	 services	 for	 our	 customers.	 More	 of	 our	
customers	 now	 take	 both	 broadband	 and	 voice	 services,	 and	
more	 also	 opt	 for	 our	 higher	 value	 “Plus”	 product,	 which	 now	
makes	 up	 14%	 of	 our	 total	 base.	 We	 aim	 to	 drive	 this	 customer	
mix	 improvement	 further,	 and	 introduce	 more	 “Boosts”,	 which	
give	 customers	 extra	 value	 and	 billing	 certainty.	
TalkTalk	 is	 all	 about	 giving	 customers	 consistently	 the	 best	 value	
for	 money	 experience	 in	 the	 market,	 and	 we	 have	 reinforced	
this	 commitment	 by	 recently	 reducing	 the	 Headline	 price	 of	
our	 Essentials	 and	 “Plus”	 products	 for	 all	 our	 customers	 taking	
either	 of	 these	 products.	
Value	 for	 money	 is	 not	 just	 about	 price,	 it	 is	 also	 about	
what	 customers	 get	 for	 their	 money,	 and	 we	 have	 now	
added	 our	 new,	 free	 HomeSafe	 option	 to	 our	 Essentials	 and	
Plus	 propositions.	 HomeSafe	 is	 the	 UK’s	 first	 network-level	
security	 product,	 which	 works	 by	 filtering	 a	 customer’s	
broadband	 before	 it	 enters	 the	 premises.	 It	 allows	 parents	
to	 decide	 what	 internet	 content	 they	 want	 to	 come	 into	 their	
home,	 and	 protects	 every	 internet	 device	 in	 the	 household.	
We	 have	 extended	 our	 product	 range	 by	 offering	 great	
value	 mobile	 services	 for	 our	 existing	 customers,	 aimed	
at	 families	 seeking	 to	 reduce	 the	 costs	 of	 calling	 between	
family	 members,	 and	 we	 now	 plan	 to	 extend	 the	 range	 of	
our		 mobile	 offers.
The	 next	 major	 milestone	 in	 the	 implementation	 of	 our	
quad	 play	 strategy	 will	 be	 the	 launch	 of	 an	 innovative	 value	
for	 money	 television	 service	 to	 our	 customers.	 This	 will	 be	
built	 around	 YouView,	 a	 new,	 open	 technical	 standard	 for	
mass	 market	 television	 being	 developed	 by	 a	 joint	 venture	
that	 includes	 TalkTalk	 and	 all	 the	 UK	 Public	 Service	
Broadcasters,	 including	 the	 BBC,	 BT	 and	 Arqiva.
HomeSafe
Exclusively	available	to	TalkTalk	
customers	 free	 of	 charge,	 HomeSafe	
provides	 unique	 network	 level	 safety	
and	 security	 for	 all	 devices	 using	
the	internet	connection	in	the	
home	including	games	consoles	
and	smart	phones.	The	parental	
control	features,	including	
homework	time,	help	parents	
make	choices	about	how	to	keep	
their	families	safer	online. Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
For	more	information	visit:
www.talktalkgroup.com
09
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
Always Better Value
The	services	TalkTalk	provides	are	
at	the	very	heart	of	our	homes	and	
we	believe	they	should	be	available	
to	everyone.	This	belief	defines	our	
commitment	 to	 Always	 Better	 Value.	
Because	 Always	 Better	 Value	 means	
a	brighter	home	for	everyone.
YouView	 will	 bring	 to	 our	 customers	 all	 the	 ‘plug	 in	 and	 watch’	
simplicity	 they	 are	 used	 to,	 combined	 with	 the	 UK’s	 leading	
catch	 up	 and	 video	 on	 demand	 services,	 all	 instantly	 available	
through	 one	 simple,	 intuitive	 set-top	 box.	 Our	 customers’	 on	
screen	 program	 guide	 will	 go	 backwards	 in	 time	 as	 well	 as	
forwards,	 for	 the	 first	 time	 allowing	 them	 to	 discover	 and	 watch	
great	 programs	 whenever	 they	 want,	 including	 a	 choice	 of	 pay	
TV	 channels	 and	 on	 demand	 programs.	 YouView	 from	 TalkTalk	
will	 be	 in	 trial	 by	 the	 end	 of	 2011,	 with	 a	 full	 consumer	 launch	
planned	 for	 spring	 2012.
4. Growing our range of data services for businesses
We	 are	 using	 our	 Next	 Generation	 Network	 to	 develop	 	
new	 services	 to	 exploit	 the	 growth	 of	 business	 data	 traffic.	
These	 include	 products	 based	 on	 Ethernet,	 a	 technology	 	
that	 delivers	 symmetrical,	 uncontended,	 fast	 access	 that	 is	
displacing	 high	 cost	 legacy	 leased	 line	 products.	 We	 aim	 	
to	 grow	 our	 wholesale,	 carrier	 grade	 Ethernet	 connectivity	
propositions	 for	 large	 operators	 supplying	 the	 enterprise	
market,	 as	 well	 as	 copper-based	 ‘Ethernet	 First	 Mile’	 	
solutions	 for	 the	 mid	 market.	
5. Offering fibre access 
We	 are	 making	 delivery	 of	 our	 services	 future	 proof,	 	
and	 meeting	 potential	 customer	 demand	 for	 high	 speed	
broadband,	 by	 developing	 our	 ‘Next	 Generation	 Access’	
capabilities.	 We	 have	 launched	 a	 fibre	 optic	 “Boost”	
product,	 and	 are	 working	 with	 BT	 Openreach	 to	 develop	
this	 further,	 and	 in	 particular	 to	 improve	 the	 customer	
connection	 experience	 and	 reduce	 costs.	
Our	 other	 fibre	 initiatives	 include	 a	 shared	 research	 and	
development	 project	 with	 BSkyB	 to	 deploy	 a	 small	 scale	 	
‘Fibre	 To	 The	 Home’	 network	 to	 3,600	 homes	 in	 north	
west	 London,	 and	 active	 support	 for	 Fujitsu	 as	 it	 seeks	
access	 to	 government	 funds	 earmarked	 for	 investment	
in	 superfast	 broadband	 in	 rural	 communities.
Brighter basics
Successful	 delivery	 of	 our	 strategy	 is	 not	 just	 about	 what	 we	
plan	 to	 do,	 it’s	 also	 about	 how	 we	 do	 it.	 The	 way	 people	 work	
together	 and	 the	 culture	 we	 develop	 is	 a	 crucial	 element	
to	 our	 success.	 Through	 the	 course	 of	 this	 year	 we	 have	
developed	 our	 Brighter	 Basics	 –	 five	 core	 values	 that	 define	
what	 kind	 of	 team	 we	 aspire	 to	 be.	 They	 define	 our	 aspirations	
as	 a	 way	 of	 daily	 life,	 they	 capture	 what	 makes	 TalkTalk	 unique,	
and	 will	 guide	 us	 in	 implementing	 our	 plans	 to	 make	 TalkTalk	
a	 brighter	 place	 for	 everyone.
