 06
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014
FY14 Business Review
Summary
Our results for the year clearly demonstrate that our strategy is 
driving revenue growth and will create sustainable shareholder 
value. In total we invested an incremental £112m in FY14 in growing 
the business, primarily through TV, and this is reflected in our full 
year EBITDA margin of 12.3%. Our investment in scaling the TV base 
had its most pronounced effect in H1 with EBITDA margins of 9.0% 
on revenue growth of 1.8% and total subscriber acquisition costs 
of £174m. As expected H2 results showed a strong rebound in 
profitability with EBITDA margin of 15.5% on 5.0% revenue growth 
and after total subscriber acquisition costs of £144m. The year 
also highlighted the traction we are gaining in TalkTalk Business 
through its focus on value for money data connectivity products. 
Corporate revenues grew by 5.6% year on year, accelerating 
significantly from 1.3% growth in H1 to 9.9% in H2. The dividend for 
the year of 12.0p is in line with our commitment to deliver returns 
to shareholders whilst also investing to grow the business.
We expect to deliver further significant progress in FY15, with 
Headline EBITDA margin in the range of 16.0%–17.0% and dividend 
growth of 15%, and are on track to deliver our medium term financial 
targets of 4% CAGR in revenue and 25% EBITDA margin by FY17.  
In addition, we see further strong growth opportunities beyond 
the medium term from leveraging our network capability and 
customer scale.
1. The fastest growing TV business in the UK
Accelerating growth in TV– 687,000 customers added, c.25% 
of fully unbundled base
We added 687,000 customers to our fast growing YouView TV base 
during the year, more than all the other UK TV operators combined. 
The rate of additions accelerated through the year as awareness of 
our proposition grew. During Q3 we launched and began gradually 
to scale our Essentials TV proposition, expanding the addressable 
market for our triple play product. Accordingly we have seen an 
increase in the number of new customers coming to TalkTalk, 
with a third of TV connections new to TalkTalk. 
The Plus TV proposition has continued to prove popular, both for 
existing customers wishing to upgrade from their Essentials phone 
and broadband packages, and for new to TalkTalk customers, 
highlighting the willingness of customers to pay a premium for 
differentiated functionality (recording to the local set-top box) 
and bundled features (free anytime calls and seven Sky channels). 
We have continued to develop our content proposition through 
FY15, with some significant new additions to our range such as 
Sky on demand (Sky Movies, Sky Entertainment, Sky Sports); 
Picturebox (NBC Universal) – new  Subscription Video on Demand 
(SVOD) service; and new linear channels such as JSTV and Kyknet 
(Thema International), Sony Entertainment TV, Sony Asia TV and 
Nicktoons. In addition, we reached an agreement with FilmFlex that 
will significantly increase our selection of TV on Demand (TVOD) titles.
At the end of the year, just over 25% of our fully unbundled customers 
were triple play. We expect to add a similar number of TV customers 
in FY15 as we did in FY14, which would take penetration to nearly 40% 
of our On-net base. Our primary target market remains the large base 
of Freeview households in the UK (c.18m) and we continue to expect 
that in time nearly all of our On-net customers will convert to triple 
play in line with increasing recognition of the convenience and value 
of bundling, and as we drive increased awareness of our compelling 
content offer. 
TV customers continue to rate the service highly
A range of survey and usage data from our TV customers, including 
those that have been with us for over a year now, consistently point 
to high levels of satisfaction with our TV service. The vast majority of 
our TV customers (both those upgrading from phone and broadband 
and those who are new to TalkTalk) have previously used Freeview as 
their main TV service. Consequently the integrated IPTV and linear 
programming functionality provided by the YouView platform remains 
one of the most highly rated features of our service, with the YouView 
net promoter score at +25.
While Plus customers value the ability to record programmes for 
future viewing, all customers value the ability to seamlessly watch 
catch-up TV, without having to exit the YouView programme guide. 
This remains the only programme guide currently available in the UK 
that offers this powerful functionality. The value our customers place 
on this is a direct function of the volume of high quality free public 
service broadcast (PSB) programming in the UK. Viewing data across 
all platforms shows that the vast majority of TV viewing (even for 
pay-TV subscribers) is of live and catch-up free-to-air content. 
Other features that all our customers rate highly include the ease 
of access to a wide range of flexible, non-subscription pay content. 
This is especially so for those customers who have upgraded from 
Freeview and are exploring paid for content options for the first time. 
Equally, those customers who have switched from other pay TV 
platforms report high levels of satisfaction with the range of content 
available and the affordability of being able to select and pay for only 
the precise content they wish to access. 
Content purchasing behaviour encouraging for future revenue
Whilst most of our TV customers have little or no previous experience 
of paying for content on their TV sets, their purchasing behaviour to 
date is encouraging for future incremental revenues, with an average 
ARPU for pay-per-view movies and boosts combined of c.£9.00. 
With over 28% of our TV customers buying some form of pay content 
every month, the overall TV base is therefore showing an ARPU uplift 
of c.£2.50.
With over twelve months of data from our growing base, we are pleased 
to report that early purchasing behaviours have proved resilient and 
are consistent with our understanding of what our family-orientated, 
value-seeking customers want to watch. Pay-per-view movie demand 
has grown steadily over the last twelve months, with customers 
purchasing on average, just over one movie per month, generating 
an incremental ARPU of c.£4.00. 
“ TalkTalk is all about giving customers consistently the best value 
for money experience in the market”
Chief Executive Officer’s statement Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information
07
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014
Content boost purchases have also remained resilient although 
as we had expected, Essentials customers take longer to begin 
their pay content journey and, initially, tend to buy fewer boosts. 
Nevertheless the average boost ARPU of Essentials and Plus 
customers at c.£11.00 is providing good incremental revenue for us. 
TV customers’ early-life churn significantly lower than that of 
broadband customers
Very few of our earliest TV customers have reached the end of 
their first contract term, so it remains too early to assess their 
out-of-contract churn behaviour. 
However, the high levels of satisfaction with their service that our 
TV customers are reporting, and the consistency of their content 
purchasing behaviour, has translated into materially lower early-life 
churn than for their dual play counterparts. Average monthly churn 
on the TV base through FY14 was approximately half that seen from 
our dual play base. 
The lower early-life churn, significantly higher net promoter score and 
lower surveyed propensity to churn give us a great deal of confidence 
that mature triple play customers will also churn at a materially lower 
rate than dual play customers.
2. Continuing progress in Mobile and Fibre adding 
incremental value
7% of On-net customers now taking mobile
We added 109,000 new customers to our Mobile base during the year, 
comprising 7% of our On-net base versus 4.5% of the base a year ago. 
Mobile customers continue to add incremental value to us through a 
combination of standalone economics (each Mobile customer delivers 
a positive net present value across the life of the contract), and reduced 
churn and higher net promoter scores compared to dual play customers. 
As discussed below, developing our mobile proposition is a key element 
of our innovation agenda for delivering long term growth, and we see 
real opportunity to drive higher levels of penetration and value creation.
5% of On-net customers taking fibre
We added 134,000 new customers to our fibre base during the year, 
comprising 5% of our On-net base versus 2% of the base a year ago. 
Bandwidth usage continues to grow rapidly: traffic on our network has 
almost trebled in the last three years, as customers use more devices 
and watch more video content online, and customers downloaded 
an average of 34GB of content a month during FY14 – 46% more than 
a year ago. However, at current prices and usage levels, demand for 
fibre from our customers remains modest because of the scale and 
capability of our existing network. With over 50% of fibre customers 
also taking TV from us, demand is very much driven by customers 
whose overall experience can be transformed by taking fibre, e.g. 
where distance from the exchange dictates copper speeds of less 
than 3Mbps.
3. TalkTalk business – one of the fastest growing B2B 
telecom businesses in the UK
Another year of strong performance 
TalkTalk Business has delivered a strong performance, with Corporate 
revenues growing by 5.6% year on year and accelerating significantly 
through the year (H1: +1.3%, H2: +9.9%). High margin data products 
revenues (+37.5% year on year) have been a key driver of this 
performance with growth running in excess of the established 
decline in traditional voice revenues. Our suite of flexible and 
competitive Ethernet products based on our market leading 
national Ethernet footprint has helped us win significant new 
direct and partner business during the year.
Revenues from wholesale broadband connectivity products through 
our partner channel also showed strong growth during the year. In Q3 
we completed the migration of 103,000 Post Office customers onto 
our base, with revenues from these customers contributing to growth 
across On-net, Corporate and Off-net.
With three consecutive quarters of year on year growth in Corporate 
revenues, TalkTalk Business is one of the fastest growing B2B telecom 
businesses in the UK. This is a powerful testament to the strength of 
TalkTalk Business’s strategy, business model and competitive 
positioning in its chosen markets.  
A focused strategy to grow revenues and profitability
TalkTalk Business’s strategy is consistent with the Group strategy 
of leveraging our network scale and capability to build market 
share in value for money products, whilst simplifying its systems 
and processes and launching innovative new products to deliver 
sustained and profitable long term growth. 
Our network is scaled for peak evening usage by consumers, 
allowing TalkTalk Business to use excess daytime capacity for 
business customers. This together with our Ethernet capability 
(over 3,000 of our exchanges are Ethernet enabled, with 95% 
country coverage) allows TalkTalk Business to offer a wide range 
of competitively priced, high-margin, all-IP data connectivity 
products. With data revenue growth running faster than the decline 
in legacy, low-margin voice revenues, TalkTalk Business is strongly 
placed to grow revenues and market share profitably. 
A key component of this is a focused approach to growth. We see 
three main segments where we are able to offer our customers 
significantly better value for money than our competitors. 08
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014
3. TalkTalk business – one of the fastest growing B2B 
telecom businesses in the UK continued
Maintaining our strong partner relationships
Our partner channel has continued to grow through FY14. Of particular 
note is the successful migration of Post Office phone and broadband 
customers who came onto our base during Q3 as part of our five year 
contract with Fujitsu, the lead service integrator for the Post Office. 
This agreement, one of the largest of its type in our history, is testimony 
to the appeal of our network for partners seeking quality, flexibility 
and competitive terms. By working with partners we are able to 
leverage the low cost base of our network while not adding the 
significant complexity that comes with tailoring services directly 
for end customers.
Growing data product penetration in Enterprise
We saw strong growth in our direct business with a number of new 
contracts to supply wide area network solutions for medium and 
large businesses including Iceland Group (MPLS network covering 
840 sites for a six year term); Hutchison 3G (MPLS network covering 
360 sites for a three year term); the DX Group (MPLS network covering 
72 sites for a five year term); Selfridges (MPLS network covering 
twelve sites for a three year term) and Fullers (MPLS network covering 
200 sites for a three year term). As a result we ended FY14 with over 
17,000 Ethernet lines connected, c.70% more than a year ago.
Growing market share in small businesses
We simplified our connectivity propositions for small businesses 
during the year, launching amongst other things, the UK’s most 
competitive business phone and broadband package for just £4.00 
per month (excluding line rental). In addition, we streamlined our sales 
and service processes for this important and growing segment and 
see significant opportunity to grow market share.
4. Progress in Making TalkTalk Simpler – a £40m+ 
cost opportunity
We have made good progress across the detailed programmes behind 
Making TalkTalk Simpler during FY14. We have actioned a number of 
initiatives across our four major workstreams (Getting Customers 
Current, Systems Transformation, Leveraging Data and Brilliant 
Self-Service). We commenced a programme to cease provision of 
non-core legacy access methods such as IP Stream, built a detailed 
roadmap for a Group-wide systems upgrade (some of which has 
already been implemented in TalkTalk Business), improved data 
standards and executive level reporting, and launched a service and 
billing app – MyTalkTalk – on both the iOS and Android platforms that 
has been adopted by 100,000 customers in just two months.
These initiatives, together with the continuing benefits of some of 
our legacy programmes, delivered £14.5m of savings during FY14.
Looking forward, we expect the four main programmes to drive a 
number of major initiatives in FY15 that will unlock further significant 
savings through FY16 and FY17. In terms of Getting Customers Current, 
we plan to sell our Off-net IP Stream base, rebrand our AOL base 
and significantly reduce the number of consumer and B2B tariffs. 
Our systems transformation will focus on a significant enhancement 
of our CRM systems and upgrading our billing platform. We will be 
leveraging our customer data to enable better targeted marketing 
activity. There will be significant focus on improving our online customer 
journeys to further encourage our customers to self-serve to both 
reduce cost and improve customer experience. These initiatives are 
expected to contribute towards further cumulative savings of over 
£40m by FY17.
5. SAC reduction from lower churn and falling 
costs per add
Reducing SAC is one of the key drivers of achieving our 25% EBITDA 
margin target. We will reduce SAC through reducing churn, and 
therefore will need to recruit fewer new customers, and through 
reducing costs per add (CPA). We have made good progress on 
both elements during FY14. 
We continued to make significant progress in two of the leading 
indicators of churn during the second half of the year, with customer 
call volumes down 17.3% year on year and complaints to Ofcom down 
by 31% year on year. In addition, we have continued to see materially 
lower churn from customers taking additional products such as TV, 
mobile and fibre. The most important effect is seen in our triple play 
customers whose early-life churn is around half that of dual play 
customers, with TV customers also reporting higher net promoter 
scores and lower intention to churn. We have begun to see the impact 
of these effects in our reported On-net churn which, having spiked at 
1.7% in Q2, subsequently fell to 1.6% in Q3 and 1.5% in Q4. 
As an illustration, reducing churn to 1.2% (the top end of the  
0.8%–1.2% range that mature triple play operators report) over 
the next three years, primarily by driving TV penetration across 
the base and further improving customer service, would lead 
to a cumulative saving of c.£30m over the period through fewer 
gross adds.
We have also made significant progress in reducing CPA. TV CPA 
fell during the year as planned, with the launch of our lower cost 
Essentials proposition and growing self-installation of the service. 
TV CPA across the second half of the year averaged c.£130 compared 
to c.£170 in the first half. Similarly, broadband CPA fell from c.£190 
in the first half to c.£180 in the second half as we increased online 
recruitment activity and reduced third party commissions. We expect 
these trends to continue through FY15 and beyond, with volume 
related savings in hardware costs and increasing self-service driving 
a cumulative saving in excess of £70m over the next three years.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued  Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Performance Governance Financial statements Other information
09
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2014
6. Longer term opportunities for delivering 
sustained growth
In April, we announced that we have joined forces with Sky and CityFibre 
to create a new company that will deliver ultra-fast broadband 
services in the city of York. The new joint venture company plans to 
build a state of the art, city-wide, pure F ibre to the P remise (FTTP) 
network to deliver broadband speeds of 1 gigabit (1,000Mbps) direct 
to tens of thousands of homes and businesses in York, offering 
customers better quality and value than is currently available with 
Fibre to the Cabinet (FTTC). 
This will be the first time that a UK city has been connected with such 
high speeds on a city-wide basis and will give us the opportunity to 
fully test a new cost effective approach to building a viable pure fibre 
network, independent from BT Openreach’s infrastructure. 
Our initial investment in the joint venture, which will see us deploying 
to 20,000 homes, will be £5m. Subsequent investment to deploy 
across the remainder of the city will be of similar order of magnitude. 
We believe the economics of our approach to FTTP could prove highly 
attractive, with a combination of scale and low cost build technology 
delivering a significantly lower cost per home passed than for the 
current FTTC infrastructure. 
We expect to announce the process for selecting the next two 
cities in due course, and are excited by the long term potential 
for a national roll-out.
In conjunction with our plans to build a converged fixed-mobile offer 
using our 4G spectrum and femtocells, such a national roll-out would 
allow us to offer our customers seamless, unlimited and low cost 
connectivity in their homes and businesses, and significant 
opportunities to drive growth over the longer term. 
Guidance 
FY15
 ƥ Customer numbers
  We expect to deliver modest growth in net adds in FY15 and 
a similar number of TV net additions to FY14.
 ƥ Revenue, Overheads and Pre-SAC EBITDA
  We expect FY15 revenues to grow by at least 4%, driven by modest 
growth in customer numbers and ARPU, and growth in TalkTalk 
Business revenues. We expect overheads as a percentage of 
revenue to fall below the level reported for FY13, driving Pre-SAC 
EBITDA margins ahead of those reported for FY13.
 ƥ SAC & Marketing and Headline EBITDA
  Based on current volume expectations and falling costs per add for 
both broadband and TV customers, we expect SAC and Marketing 
costs to fall year on year, driving strong growth in Headline EBITDA, 
with margin in the range of 16%–17%.
 ƥ Net debt
  Capex is expected to be within our guideline of 6% of revenue and 
working capital is expected to show outflows similar to FY14 as we 
see continuing strong growth in FY15 whilst also reducing costs.
  Cash exceptional items related to Making TalkTalk Simpler are 
expected to be £20m–£25m.
 ƥ Dividend
  While we shall continue to invest in growth in FY15, we are confident 
of achieving our medium term financial targets and, accordingly, 
expect to grow the FY15 dividend by no less than 15%.
FY15–FY17
In November 2013, we raised our FY14–FY17 revenue CAGR target 
from 2% to 4% and set our medium term EBITDA margin target of 25% 
to be achieved by FY17. We remain confident that we are on track to 
achieve both our revenue and margin targets.
We expect revenue growth to be supported by modest growth in total 
customer numbers, ARPU progress from disciplined pricing and 
promotional activity, and growing scale in TV, mobile, and fibre. We 
also expect TalkTalk Business revenues to grow at a faster rate than 
the Group average, driven by data products and new product innovation. 
Revenue growth is a key component of our EBITDA margin target. 
There are two other components: SAC and overhead reduction. 
We expect to reduce SAC by requiring fewer gross adds to maintain 
our customer base as a consequence of lower churn from growing TV, 
mobile and fibre penetration and better customer service, and by 
reducing costs per add as a result of increased levels of self-service 
and, over time, the falling costs of technology to provide TV. 
Our Making TalkTalk Simpler programme is a key enabler of overhead 
reductions. This will make it simpler for our customers to engage with 
us, whether it is to buy products and services, to manage their bills or to 
resolve problems. To achieve this simplicity we will reduce the number 
of tariffs and access methods we use; reduce the complexity of our 
systems; make better use of data; and drive a self-service model. 
These initiatives are expected to deliver further savings in excess 
of £40m by FY17.
 
 
Dido Harding
Chief Executive Officer
14 May 2014
