 04
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of the year
Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
T angent’s highly talented team ensures that 
we regularly punch above our weight, and we 
continue to supply major household names 
with high volume and time-critical marketing 
services through innovative technology. 
We have built the business upon a solid 
backbone of proven technology and 
multi-channel marketing capability that 
has provided a robust platform for stability 
in a challenging market. This has allowed 
our companies to continue to deliver ever 
greater accuracy and accountability into 
marketing operations.
In the year ended 28 February 2010, 
underlying operating profits of £820,000 
were ahead of our initial expectations. The 
recommended dividend of 0.2p is maintained 
for the year. Although not fully covered after 
exceptional charges, our financial position 
remains solid with net cash of £1.1m 
and prospects for the current year are 
encouraging. However we did not achieve all 
our targets for the year, notably in respect of 
contributions from our latest acquisition where 
revenues from key accounts continue to 
disappoint. The integration of Snowball with 
T angent Direct’s business is progressing to 
plan and has been able to secure important 
new client wins, such as the Miele account. 
We have also not yet been able to take a bigger 
step up in size which means that overhead 
costs as a proportion of revenue remain higher 
than we would like. However I am confident we 
can improve performance, both immediately 
through our own efforts and through increased 
activity from a number of market segments. 
We will also work harder on building scale. 
Piers Caldecote
we have built the 
business upon a 
solid backbone of 
proven technology 
and multi‑channel 
marketing capability 
that has provided 
a robust platform 
for stability in a 
challenging market. review of the year/
05
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of the year
Chairman’s statement
_Our financial position remains solid and 
prospects for the current year are encouraging. 
We have implemented a new management 
structure with Timothy Green taking on full 
responsibility as Chief Executive. 
Our newly formed Consumer division, 
built on the success of the Digital Print 
Partnership, will be driven by Nicholas Green, 
who will also continue to focus on corporate 
activity and key clients. Greg Jackson will 
continue to head up the online division with 
his technology skills.
Kevin Cameron took over as Group 
Financial Controller in February 2010 following 
Graeme Harris’ departure. I am pleased to 
announce that Kevin now joins the board 
as Finance Director and Company Secretary. 
He has managed group finances since 
June 2009 and he brings many years’ 
experience from within the Ravensworth 
business to the board. Graeme had been 
with T angent as Finance Director since the 
flotation in 2005 and gave us excellent 
service. I am sure he will be a great asset 
in his next position. 
The new management team’s key challenge 
will be to work across our businesses to sell the 
benefits of our extensive range of Marketing 
and Production Services throughout our client 
base. T angent’s responsibility is to provide 
clients with a truly end-to-end service, enable 
real time campaign data analysis and react 
rapidly to constantly changing market conditions.
I would like to thank all of our employees 
for their hard work throughout the last twelve 
months in demanding market conditions, 
many of whom have worked through the 
night to support our clients. 
It is probably not usual to compliment a 
Non-executive Director, but Paul Murray has, 
as always, been exceptional in overseeing 
compliance, audit and remuneration matters. 
A small company has to cover the same 
bases as much bigger businesses but 
without their depth of support, and Paul has 
been instrumental in making this possible. 
We also welcome Alan Smith to the board 
as Non-executive Director. His tremendous 
experience will be welcome in the coming 
period and specifically his history of working 
with public companies and the retail sector 
will assist both the business and executive team 
as they look to grow the T angent business. 
Finally, my thanks to our shareholders 
for continuing to support T angent. 
Piers Caldecote
Non‑executive Chairman
21 June 2010
