 06
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
_
T angent has a strong balance sheet 
which will underpin our operations 
through the recession, core businesses 
which are either already growing or 
positioned for rapid growth when the 
economy stabilises and lastly a number 
of new initiatives which could add 
significant value.
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Timothy Green
Nicholas Green
Reacting to the change in the business climate 
the company restructured its operations in 2008. 
This process included a reduction in headcount 
across all offices, a consolidation of all marketing 
production into one facility (Newcastle), the re-location 
of two offices, the closure of our Cheltenham production 
facility and re-structuring the T angent brand.
The company’s fall in profits was due to a reduction in 
sales of £2.31m from Ravensworth which provides print 
services to estate agents. This fall reduced significantly 
the profit contribution from this part of the business 
and was too great to be offset by the largely strong 
performance from the other parts of the business. 
T angent has a strong balance sheet which will underpin 
our operations through the recession, core businesses 
which are either already growing or positioned for rapid 
growth when the economy stabilises and lastly a number 
of new initiatives which could add significant value. 
With the restrictions in the equity market, 
management has focused on small bolt-on 
acquisitions. In March 2009 the company acquired 
a digital marketing agency, Lateral Net Ltd which 
overnight doubled the size of our digital marketing 
agency T angent One. Also in March 2009 T angent took 
control of the UK licence to the VLM software platform. 
VLM was the largest competitor to Ravensworth and 
the company has now significantly increased its 
market share. Both transactions were funded from 
internal resources and build on our two key markets 
of local marketing and e-commerce. 
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   6 22/06/2009   14:50:47 BUSINESS REVIEW/
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
07
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
The new financial year has got off to a good start 
with the business performing ahead of budget. 
The board’s decision to maintain the dividend is a 
reflection of confidence in T angent’s current operations 
and growth strategies, notwithstanding the very real 
challenges of today’s business climate. 
Business review
The rebranding exercise undertaken at the half year 
created two key marketing brands, T angent One and 
T angent Direct. T angent Labs has been set up to drive 
the technology development of both Tangent One 
and Tangent Direct and has direct sales to only a 
handful of significant customers. Our specialist brands 
Ravensworth (property), T angent On Demand (London 
digital print) and ZUI (software development) have all 
been given direct routes to market.
Tangent One 
T angent One is a full service digital agency with key 
services including website creation, e-commerce, 
email and mobile marketing. The business has 
matured over the last three years, delivering steadily 
larger projects, with particular specialisms in retail, 
publishing and charities. 
2008/09 review
2008/09 was transformational for T angent One, as the 
agency graduated from building strategically robust 
medium-sized projects, to winning large scale websites 
for household name brands, in the UK and internationally. 
The year saw the launch of the T aoCommerce online 
shopping platform; the opening of our Melbourne 
office and account wins that included the Department 
of Health and Cancer Research UK, often in closely 
fought multi-stage pitches. In addition, the group’s 
cross-selling initiative has resulted in large pieces 
of incremental business from long standing T angent 
clients such as ATS, Borders Books, Greene King, 
Citroën and Wolseley. 
Tangent One Australia
In October 2008 T angent One successfully won a 
pitch to build a 1 million product eCommerce site for 
Angus and Robertson, Australia’s leading book retailer. 
Based on the T aoCommerce platform, the project involved 
creating a technology framework that would be extended 
to four additional transactional websites in Australia, 
New Zealand and Singapore. With platform development 
conducted in London by T angent Labs, the Melbourne 
operation has its own technical and account management 
resource and design talent. It is also in the process 
of driving new business opportunities in the region, 
a process that is already delivering promising results.
Business outlook
In March 2009 T angent completed the acquisition of 
Lateral Net Ltd, one of the UK’s longest established 
digital creative agencies. Lateral brings new revenue 
from a client base that includes household names 
like Paco Rabanne, Hodder & Stoughton and 
Which? Magazine.
Their multi-award winning creative team complements 
T angent’s existing strategic and technical excellence, 
which has become more noticeable during the recent 
integration process with T angent One. The businesses 
are now located in T angent’s London offices and are 
being led by Nick Gillett (managing director), Simon Crab 
(creative director) and Jon Bains (strategy director).
The combination of Lateral and T angent One presents 
a number of opportunities:
•  Digital remains a growth medium. T angent now has 
a larger, higher profile business operating in this area 
and as such we expect a larger proportion of the 
group’s future profits to come from digital marketing.
•  By doubling the size of both individual businesses, 
the combined agency is able to pitch for higher 
value projects. In May 2009 Tangent One and 
Lateral won their first integrated pitch for Boots, 
which has added the agency to its roster, starting 
with a project for cosmetics brand No7.
•  Platform and channel-neutral, T angent One has 
the freedom to use either the T aoBase platform 
or existing client-side systems to deliver projects. 
T echnology is never a barrier to winning new work.
The outlook for 2009/10 is positive. Our PR strategy 
is generating increasing levels of interest in 
the agency, additional work is arriving from 
Lateral and a number of new pitches are 
already scheduled. 
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   7 22/06/2009   14:50:47 08
t angent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review continued
tangent labs
Tangent Labs is a pure technology development 
business. Project teams with highly-skilled technical 
developers build the applications which support the 
clients of T angent One and T angent Direct. In addition 
T angent Labs has a number of direct large corporate 
clients for which it provides bespoke project work. 
The division employs 23 people and uses bespoke 
development methodologies to achieve high levels 
of innovative output. 
The strategy for the business is to continue to develop 
scalable solutions for T angent One and T angent Direct 
as well as to identify ways in which it can maximise the 
commercial opportunity for developed applications 
in the wider marketplace by focusing on developing 
solutions which improve clients’ businesses. 
2008/09 review
The year saw growth in sales, team capabilities and 
product development. Demand for the services sold 
by Tangent Direct and Tangent One accelerated the 
investment in T aoBase, T angent’s proprietary technology 
platform. T oday the platform is the cornerstone for a 
range of solutions which include:
•  T aoBase – database design, construction 
and implementation;
•  T aoMail – fully integrated email platform generating 
targeted and high volume email campaigns with 
a fully integrated tracking and results interface 
for campaign management;
•  SWC – enterprise content management for websites, 
allowing clients to manage anything from one to 
hundreds of websites from a single login and 
content repository; and
•  T oolkit – enterprise digital print platform, allowing 
clients at head offi ce or branch level to generate 
high quality variable communications within 
brand guidelines.
In addition, T angent Labs has a number of corporate 
customers. In these cases T angent Labs is commonly 
solving business critical problems and providing 
embedded solutions which become part of a 
company’s internal architecture. By way of example, 
T angent Labs recently created MenuBuilder for the 
food service industry.
Application case study – MenuBuilder
The UK food and beverage industry is facing a number 
of critical legislative changes as well as operational 
challenges. These include: 
•  the inclusion of nutritional information on menus;
•  rapid and frequent changes in wholesale prices 
of food and beverages;
•  the importance of reducing wastage, increasing 
revenue per customer in the current economic 
climate; and
•  the need to refresh menus frequently and vary them 
locally to meet modern consumer expectations.
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Joint chief executives’ review continued
Market leading e‑commerce 
in a hurry
anGUs & rOBertsOn >
Australia’s biggest 
bookshop chain, 
Angus & Robertson, 
needed to re‑launch 
their high profi le 
online store and 
deliver the entire 
project in less than 
three months.
Tangent One worked 
with a range of third 
party suppliers from 
fulfi lment to fraud 
prevention, enabling 
live integration between 
all and created a site 
that could also be 
re‑used by other 
store brands in the 
same group.
Email and search 
marketing will be next, 
driving traffi c to the site 
through paid 
advertising (PPC) and 
best practice search 
engine optimisation 
(SEO) to attract users 
searching for products 
to buy.
With a hugely 
successful and highly 
regarded web shop 
under its belt and 
more in development, 
Tangent One is making 
a name for itself 
down under. 
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   8 22/06/2009   14:50:53 BUSINESS REVIEW/
09
t angent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Improving profi tability and 
revolutionising effi ciency
natiOnal UniOn OF stUdents serVices ltd (nUssl) >
When NUSSL 
required a more 
cost effective way 
to build, manage 
and market their 
entire food service 
operation, Tangent 
Labs developed 
MenuBuilder.
MenuBuilder has made 
it possible to simplify 
a range of previously 
extremely complicated 
and time consuming 
procedures such as 
nutritional labelling, 
menu generation and 
daily reporting and 
management of 
business data, helping 
to put managers in 
control at both a local 
and national level. 
An integrated link to 
Tangent’s digital print 
facility adds further 
functionality.
_
MenuBuilder is an incredibly 
exciting innovation for us as 
we believe it will genuinely 
revolutionise the effi ciency 
of our business.
Ged Parker, Commercial Consultant
NUSSL
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   9 22/06/2009   14:50:58 10
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Business review continued
MenuBuilder allows head office and local chefs to create 
menus, with ingredients automatically connected to 
supplier databases. This means that when ingredient 
prices change, the system automatically alerts users, 
changes suppliers or revises menu prices. The system 
allows a national food service business to reduce the 
timeline for creating a new menu from 16 weeks to two 
weeks. It automatically orders menus to be printed at 
Tangent’s digital printing facility, can publish menus 
to websites and even updates point of sales terminals 
with the latest pricing. 
MenuBuilder has already been bought by a number of 
customers and is currently part of a new strategy to take 
T angent Labs’ developed products to a wider audience. 
Business outlook
The change in economic climate has affected the demand 
for high value bespoke technical projects and as a direct 
result we expect the contribution from T angent Labs to be 
significantly below last year. For this reason the strategy 
implemented for this year will be to increase direct sales 
of the work developed by T angent Labs. Whilst we expect 
this to take time to deploy as the general business climate 
returns, we expect the business to return in stronger 
shape as it will have a more diversified sales mix 
including direct and indirect sales. 
ZUI – a joint venture between Tangent Labs 
and De Villiers Walton
ZUI was set up in 2008 to pool the resources of two 
world-leading software implementation teams to 
deliver revolutionary web interfaces for enterprise 
software. Towards the end of its first year in 
operation, the venture has collected a number of 
small contracts with large organisations. The turning 
point for 2009/10 has been a four month contract 
to build a significant software interface for one 
of Europe’s largest companies; we expect this 
contract to be a significant six-figure piece of work.
Tangent Direct
T angent Direct has two businesses which are linked 
together through the company’s campaign management 
and digital print facility in Newcastle. The business 
brands are T angent Direct and Ravensworth.
T angent Direct provides clients with a market-leading, 
data-driven communications platform that delivers 
accountable and cost effective brand strategy across 
multiple channels. The platform allows clients to 
create, adapt order and track marketing collateral 
for print, email, web or mobile campaigns through a 
single, easy to use interface. The business employs 
94 people across three locations in Cheltenham, London 
and Newcastle and currently delivers solutions for 
a wide range of clients including The Labour Party, 
Citroën, Greene King, GalaCoral and Wolseley.
Joint chief executives’ review continued
_
Tangent Direct’s strategic thinking 
and advanced technology made this 
complex project very manageable 
and surprisingly cost effective, 
helping us to develop a unique 
platform that really does enable 
us to think global, but act local.
Lou Collins, Marketing Manager 
Greene King
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   10 22/06/2009   14:50:58 BUSINESS REVIEW/
11
t angent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Greene kinG >
Communicating a 
national brand locally
When leading pub 
retailer and brewer 
Greene King wanted 
to build stronger, 
more profi table 
and longer lasting 
relationships with 
local customers 
Tangent Direct 
provided the 
perfect solution.
Using the proprietary 
TaoBase data 
management and 
processing platform, 
Tangent built a central 
online content 
management system 
allowing landlords to 
quickly nominate details 
about their pub and use 
them to drive both the 
content of their local 
website and generate 
personalised CRM 
campaigns across web, 
email, mobile, direct 
mail and POS.
Tangent Direct’s business strategy is based on the 
ever growing demand for effi ciency, cost effectiveness 
and personalisation within marketing communications. 
The company provides a much needed alternative 
to the increasingly out-dated operational models of 
traditional communications agencies by providing 
a single interface and a channel neutral perspective 
that allows delivery of the right message, to the right 
person through the right channel at all times. 
2008/09 review
In 2008/09 T angent Direct continued to increase its 
revenues, customer base and services. Particularly 
signifi cant has been the growth in the breadth of services 
provided to existing clients whose confi dence in T angent 
Direct’s ability to deliver integrated communications 
strategies continues to grow. In addition, its profi le has 
been substantially improved within the industry press 
through a sustained PR strategy that is successfully 
positioning T angent Direct as a thought leader in the 
delivery of data-driven local marketing strategy.
Business outlook
2009/10 should see an increase in design and 
consultancy services from this division. As a full 
service direct agency the team has broadened 
the strategic offering through design, planning and 
deployment of campaigns with a full circle results and 
analysis service. This allows Tangent to provide the 
complete loop in direct marketing activities which 
should reinforce our strong position with key clients 
and generate an increasingly profi table revenue 
model for the future. 
The current climate is well suited for T angent Direct. 
Businesses are now focused on how they are 
spending money and what returns on marketing 
investment they are receiving. Customers are also 
becoming more demanding and are seeking brands 
to engage on a more sophisticated level and justify 
harder on cost levels. All these reasons work well 
for T angent Direct and the services it provides. 
Ravensworth
Ravensworth is the UK’s leading supplier of printed 
sales particulars to UK estate agents. The business 
has a combination of large corporate customers 
(Countrywide, Halifax and Reeds Rains) and small 
independent customers. The facility based in 
Newcastle also produces a signifi cant proportion 
of the UK’s printed Home Information Packs (HIPs).
2008/09 review
2008/09 proved a very diffi cult year. The residential 
housing market collapsed, signifi cantly reducing 
the number of properties for sale and therefore 
the requirement from estate agents for printed sales 
particulars. On a like-for-like basis compared to 2007/08 
sales were down 37%. In addition the number of agents 
using the Ravensworth technology platform reduced 
due to a combination of agents going out of business 
and in some cases agents choosing temporarily to 
print in house. 
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   11 22/06/2009   14:50:59 12
t angent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Joint chief executives’ review continued
Successful marketing 
implementation
Reeds Rains, 
an estate agent 
with over 100 
branches, turned 
to Ravensworth to 
deliver a strategic 
marketing campaign 
to increase 
market share. 
Targeting different 
sectors of the housing 
market Ravensworth 
prepared a range of 
campaign materials to 
promote Reeds Rains 
extensive services with 
all items being available 
to order online, resulting 
in property listings 
increasing by 80% 
on the previous year. 
Such strategic thinking 
allied to our unique 
combination of 
creativity and 
technology 
demonstrates that 
businesses can deliver 
success even in the 
most challenging 
of circumstances.
reeds rains >
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   12 22/06/2009   14:51:03 BUSINESS REVIEW/
13
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
_
I’m pleased to say that with the 
expertise and help of Ravensworth 
the campaign has been a tremendous 
success with Reeds Rains ‘bucking’ 
the trend in most locations, and one 
of the best decisions we’ve made.
David Mills, Managing Director 
Reeds Rains
Business review continued
During this period headcount was reduced and work 
from London was transferred to Newcastle to offset 
the reduction in property volumes. The work transfer 
process has brought about a number of long term 
benefits for T angent:
•  Historically the facility in Newcastle was solely focussed 
on producing a handful of products for one market, 
namely the property market. T oday, thanks to the work 
transfer process and an internal training programme, 
T angent has a multi functional facility which provides 
a significantly larger range of products to a much 
wider market and a greater number of customers. 
In the long term this will allow the sales team to sell 
a broader range of products to our customers 
and the business to enter into new markets. 
•  By moving marketing production from London 
to Newcastle, T angent has been able to break out 
T angent On Demand into its own premises, benefit 
from cost efficiencies in consolidating marketing 
production and provide Tangent One, Tangent 
Direct and T angent Labs with an appropriate office 
environment which reflects their brand values. 
Business outlook
T oday we have shifted our focus away from branch 
numbers and concentrated our efforts on increasing the 
number of products sold to each branch. The strategy 
for Ravensworth is being implemented as follows:
•  Through a licencing deal with VLM, Ravensworth 
has increased its market share and will benefit from 
lower levels of competition in the market place. VLM 
was the largest competitor to Ravensworth and counts 
Savills, Spicer Haart and Sequence amongst its 
client base. We expect to see further consolidation 
opportunities in the year. 
•  Over half of VLM’s business was in canvassing 
materials or direct mail. Their experience and 
knowledge are now being transferred to the 
Ravensworth sales team and therefore we expect 
our share of this market and thus revenue per 
customer to increase over time. 
•  We have expanded our digital proposition to 
include email marketing and web build to secure 
non-print revenues from the estate agency market.
Whilst we expect it to take time, we are confident that 
we can become the primary provider of marketing 
services to estate agents. With an extensive customer 
base already in place, the opportunity to generate new 
revenues today and as the market returns is strong. 
We will be tracking closely our cost base against current 
levels of activity in the property market. We are changing 
practices to ensure we are ever more efficient for when 
the market returns, to maximise the growth opportunity 
and profit contribution from this part of the group.
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   13 22/06/2009   14:51:03 14
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
Joint chief executives’ review continued
_
The new financial year has got off to a 
good start with the business performing 
ahead of budget. The board’s decision 
to maintain the dividend is a reflection 
of confidence in Tangent’s current 
operations and growth strategies, 
notwithstanding the very real challenges 
of today’s business climate.
Business review continued
Tangent On Demand
T angent On Demand is a boutique digital print business. 
Based in central London, it has one of the largest suites 
of small and large format digital printing capabilities and 
provides short run on demand services to the corporate 
and retail marketplace. The business employs 22 people.
The strategy for T angent On Demand is to build market 
share primarily in two markets:
•  Neighbouring advertising agencies. By offering an 
on demand service, T angent On Demand has 
already proven to provide a business critical service 
to agencies. 
•  Fashion – with clients including Giorgio Armani, 
Matthew Williamson, Jenny Packham and DKNY .
2008/09 review
2008/09 was a transitional year for T angent On 
Demand. Prior to the October 2008 restructure and 
branding, T angent On Demand was incorporated 
within the London print facility but had no outward 
facing brand. In October this changed and T angent 
On Demand (TOD) was launched as a self contained 
unit, with a management structure and external brand. 
The early indications are that this will benefit the 
business long term and help establish the business 
in its own right. 
Digital Print Partnership
In May 2009, T angent On Demand launched a new 
business venture called the Digital Print Partnership. 
The Digital Print Partnership is a trade offering aimed 
at UK-based print businesses (estimated at 12,000). 
The majority (estimated at 80%) have not invested 
and expanded their offering into digital print. These 
companies are currently missing out on revenue 
generated from digital print. Some will be considering 
investing in digital print and for some the financial 
barriers to entry will be too high. 
The Digital Print Partnership is free to join. Members gain 
access to T angent’s online estimating tool and digital 
production facility. Members have the opportunity to sell 
digital print to their customer base and then use T angent’s 
tools and systems to generate print estimates and to print 
the actual work. The key benefits of the service are:
•  The service is a white label business-to-business 
offering. End clients see no Digital Print 
Partnership branding. 
•  The Digital Print Partnership provides its clients with 
the opportunity to make money from selling Digital 
Print to its customers without making the significant 
capital investment in equipment.
Whilst the Digital Print Partnership is a relatively new 
concept in the UK, it is a more established proposition 
in other markets. In the US, Mimeo (www.mimeo.com)
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   14 22/06/2009   14:51:03 BUSINESS REVIEW/
15
t angent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Business review
Joint chief executives’ review
last year reported revenues of $100m providing a very 
similar service. In Italy, Pixart, again offering a similar 
service, generated revenues of €25m.
In its fi rst few weeks the Digital Print Partnership 
attracted a total of 150 customers, generating on 
average 25 orders a day. Over the next six months 
an outbound marketing campaign will be executed 
to the target audience. 
Business outlook 
Backed with new branding and re-located in the 
West End and a proactive marketing approach being 
taken by the team, T angent On Demand is very well 
placed to increase its market share. The backdrop of the 
general economic climate will play a role in the speed 
at which the business grows but over a one to two year 
period the outlook for the core business is expected to 
be positive. The Digital Print Partnership is a new initiative 
to the group but the early signs are good and it has 
required no capital investment by T angent. 
Group outlook
The board is taking a cautious view for 2009/10. 
We are not forecasting any return to growth from 
either Ravensworth or T angent Labs. Whilst we can 
see the long term benefi ts from the Lateral and VLM 
acquisitions and the launch of the Digital Print Partnership, 
we believe that it is prudent to keep our forecasts 
conservative as visibility is low. 
Underpinned by £2.65m of net cash and an undrawn 
£1m bank facility, T angent has the resources to see 
out the recession and the fi nancial fl exibility to take 
advantage of distressed opportunities. The core 
business has both strong recovery prospects and 
continued growth in T angent One and T angent Direct. 
The Digital Print Partnership, ZUI and Australia have 
the potential to inject signifi cant growth. 
Nicholas Green and Timothy Green
Joint chief executives
2 June 2009
When Jack Morton 
Worldwide was 
appointed to 
produce the 2008 
Wella Professionals 
International Trend 
Vision Award event 
in Portugal, they 
needed a digital 
print solution that 
could be delivered 
almost instantly.
Tangent On Demand 
produced and installed 
a wide range of signage 
and display material for 
both the interior and 
exterior of the venue 
and installed it on 
site in Portugal in 
just four days.
The project 
demonstrated Tangent 
On Demand’s ability to 
respond to the most 
challenging deadlines 
and why it’s the leading 
supplier of on demand 
digital print to the retail, 
fashion and advertising 
industries.
Rapid turnaround 
and delivery
Jack MOrtOn WOrldWide and Wella >
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   15 22/06/2009   14:51:10
