 06
T angent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of the year
Chief Executive’s statement
Chief Executive’s statement
Performance for 2010 from our core 
business units was substantially above 
management expectations set out at the 
start of the year. However as a result of 
some underperformance from our latest 
acquisitions, the overall results were only in 
line with the higher expectations anticipated 
at the interim stage. Going forward we remain 
cautious and have factored into our 2011 
budgets some, but not substantial, growth 
from key markets or from recent acquisitions. 
Second half revenues increased to a 
record high of £9.67m giving a full year 
figure of £18.19m, ahead of management 
expectations. Contributions through the 
acquired business assets of Snowball, the 
sales generated from VLM and Lateral.net 
customer lists and growth from the core 
business gave rise to a significant sales 
increase in a period of economic challenge. 
Underlying operating margin for the second 
half was up to 5.0% from 4.0% in the first half. 
We do not anticipate adding further to the 
current cost base and would expect to 
see margins continue to rise as revenues 
increase and the sales mix continues to 
return favourably. 
The last six months have shown an increase 
in core revenue streams across the T angent 
business and the first two months of the 
current financial year have generated 
significant profits. Whilst it is too early at this 
stage to forecast into the second half of the 
year when the full impact of legislative, tax 
and economic changes may be felt, we are 
confident that our first half performance will 
be strong in comparison to last year.
T angent is increasingly well positioned 
to pick up revenue in growth markets, 
particularly technology, data insight and 
digital marketing. Continued investment in our 
proprietary technology platforms – T aoBase 
and Marketing T oolkit – has positioned us at 
the forefront of our field with market‑leading 
software and services, enabling our Insight 
and Online experts to take advantage of the 
shifting market. With increasing returns from 
our market‑leading Estate Agency service, 
all T angent business streams should provide 
a significant contribution to profits and 
cash‑generation this year. 
Continued media fragmentation and an 
increasing need for greater effectiveness 
and accountability has encouraged many 
marketing services companies to start investing 
in technology, insight and e‑services. T angent 
has been ahead of the curve, investing 
significantly for some time now and is ideally 
placed to take full advantage of this change 
and make significant steps in a growing market. 
We have already secured an impressive 
new contract win with Miele and the UK launch 
of Whipcar.com, and our extended remits with 
GalaCoral, the Labour Party and Homeserve 
should underpin a solid year of growth ahead.
With the new management structure in place, 
I look forward to working closely with the 
many outstanding individuals across the 
business to accelerate growth and enhance 
T angent’s positioning as a leading provider 
of Intelligent Marketing and T echnology. 
Timothy Green
Chief Executive
21 June 2010
Timothy Green 
_T angent is increasingly well positioned to pick 
up revenue in growth markets, particularly 
technology, data insight and digital marketing. 07
T angent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
Review of the year
Chief Executive’s statement
CasE sTudy
Tangent works with leading 
bar operator Pitcher & Piano 
to provide a through the 
line marketing strategy that 
integrates both in-bar and 
CRM messaging. Together 
we have developed a 
compelling and consistent 
brand experience for 
customers across web, 
email, mobile and direct 
mail helping to generate 
increased brand awareness 
and loyalty.
Each promotion generates a 
unique voucher and code which 
is linked into Pitcher & Piano’s 
national EPOS system, and 
enables all redemptions to 
be accurately tracked across 
the branch network. This data 
provides valuable information 
on the types of offers that 
customers are most responsive 
to, and what messaging is most 
engaging offline and online.
Our work has enabled 
Pitcher & Piano to significantly 
increase its marketing database 
and offer personalised 
communications that are relevant 
to each bar and customer. 
The net effect is greater levels 
of loyalty through targeted 
messages based on unique 
customer purchasing behaviour.
rEviEw of ThE yEar/
