 Piers Caldecote
04
_
I am confident that T angent is in 
a good position to move ahead 
over the next two years, with strong 
recovery from the weakness of the 
second half of last year.
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
The acquisition of Ravensworth in March 2007 
and the subsequent failure to expand Tangent 
by acquisition in other sectors left us too exposed 
to the residential property market. 
Although we realised that activity in the residential 
property market in 2007 was cyclically high, we did 
not anticipate the severity of the decline which even 
with the benefit of new HIPS work has resulted in a 
37% reduction in demand for our property digital 
printing services on a like-for-like basis. 
The resourceful management team has done excellent 
work in consolidating our digital printing activities and 
adding new customers, but with high operational gearing 
the overall profit contribution has fallen substantially. 
When activity in the residential property market 
recovers and with any further growth from new clients, 
the operational gearing should work in our favour.
Our other businesses increased their profits in the year. 
We have highly creative teams which provide innovative 
technology and marketing services, often to large clients. 
For example, in October 2008, Tangent One won 
its largest ever contract to build the e-commerce 
operations for Australia’s leading book retailer and 
T angent Labs’ business software joint venture ZUI is 
building a mobile sales tool for a major drinks business.
However, in total T angent’s underlying pre-tax profits 
in 2008/09 have fallen to £1.15m from £2.5m.
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   4 22/06/2009   14:50:41 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT/
Chairman’s statement
Our financial position remains strong with net cash 
generation in the year of £0.14m resulting in net cash 
of £2.65m at the end of the year. Therefore, and with a 
solid start to the current year, we are recommending 
that the dividend of 0.2p per share (payable on 
26 August 2009) is maintained at a cost of £0.34m.
I am confident that T angent is in a good position 
to move ahead over the next two years, with strong 
recovery from the weakness of the second half 
of last year.
Tangent has quality, creative people and valuable 
physical and intellectual proprietary assets supported 
by a robust balance sheet. We have recently made 
two acquisitions which can prosper within our existing 
central overhead structure. We expect other similar 
opportunities to arise, resulting in potentially high 
marginal contributions.
We are grateful for the support shown by our 
shareholders in this difficult period. I thank all 
our employees for their hard work.
Piers Caldecote
Non‑executive chairman
2 June 2009
05
tangent Communications plc
Annual report and accounts 2009
_0_tan_ar09_front.indd   5 22/06/2009   14:50:42
