 04 		 T A ngen T	 comm U nic A T ions 	 plc  annual report and accounts 2008
T a n g e n t 	 h a s 	 h a d 	 a n 	 e x c e l l e n t 	y e a r 	 i n 	 t e r m s 	 o f 	 p r o fi t , 	 c a s h	
generation and earnings per share. i am delighted that we 
are now able to propose our maiden dividend of 0.2p per 
s h a r e . 	 T h i s 	 i s 	 c o v e r e d 	 o v e r 	 fi v e 	 t i m e s 	 b y 	 u n d e r l y i n g 	 b a s i c	
earnings and we intend to have a progressive dividend policy. 
The board considers that, over the long term, dividends will 
form an important part of total shareholder return.
CHairman’s statement
The management team at 
Ravensworth…has diversified 
into new markets TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008  05
nick green and tim green’s joint chief executives’ 
review explains in detail how this has been 
achieved, and they and graeme Harris, the 
finance director, and all our employees 
deserve considerable commendation.
the management team at ravensworth, which 
operate our large digital printing operation, has 
not only continued to grow their active customer 
numbers in the residential estate agency services’ 
business but has also diversified into new markets. 
thus, while it is likely that sales per estate agency 
customer will be lower this year, the business 
can continue to prosper.
in January 2008 we made a proposal to acquire 
tmn group, an aim listed company which in stock 
market terms was about twice the size of tangent. 
t he combination of tangent and tmn group 
would have produced a powerful force with a full 
set of digital marketing services with the potential 
to cross-sell our respective services. However, during 
the early part of april it became clear to us that we 
should not pursue the proposal in what appeared 
to be becoming an auction process. tangent did 
not incur any material costs associated with making 
the proposal. tangent will continue to look for 
appropriate acquisition opportunities whilst 
maintaining investment discipline.
Now looking forward, we have confidence in our 
future. We are a relatively small company which 
through hard work, considerable innovative talent 
and a strong financial base can grow substantially 
in probably some weaker markets by taking extra 
increments of marketing budgets, particularly by 
digital conversion. We don’t have expensive offices 
or extravagant marketing costs and management 
is rewarded substantially from results not salaries.
Finally, i am pleased to report that greg Jackson, 
a founder of C360, which is now tangent l abs, 
joins the board today and he will add great insight 
into our online marketing operation where we see 
a significant opportunity for growth.
piers caldecote 
non-executive chairman
14 may 2008 
I am delighted that we are 
now able to propose our 
maiden dividend of 0.2p 
per share. 06  TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008
the marketing services sector has embarked on 
a process of radical change. marketing services 
companies in the future will look very different 
from those we see today and they are likely to 
be technology-driven.
tangent is an innovative player. Our proprietary 
technologies allow us to offer services which 
other suppliers find hard to replicate. We are 
applying technological solutions to redefine 
what marketing services can be about. 
Our business philosophy is unlike many of our 
competitors. We partner with clients and engage 
with them at every stage of the marketing journey. 
We develop bespoke solutions, analyse their 
effectiveness and refine and enhance those 
solutions in the light of that information. 
We have built a tightly integrated 
business supported by a highly efficient 
technology infrastructure. the focus of the 
business is on solving business problems for 
marketing professionals. 
tangent also applies data consolidation services. 
We design, build and maintain sophisticated 
e-commerce sites. We help our customers to 
increase the effectiveness of their communications 
via direct mail, emails, sms and the web. We 
empower local managers to launch campaigns and 
targeted communications and provide centralised 
control for brand managers.
Our proprietary technology platform is a key 
advantage. Very few competitors have the 
infrastructure in place to develop and host 
hundreds of thousands of individualised 
websites in a very short timeframe. 
For tangent it’s a core competence. 
Our database solution taobase has the ability to 
accept data sent from a variety of sources to create 
rich multi-channel content output. in late 2007 
when l abour went on election alert we used 
this system to ensure the party was ready, with 
dedicated websites for every mp and individualised 
mail for every constituency available for printing 
in runs from one to 100,000.
One-to-one marketing is a holy grail for many 
businesses, but frequently the absence of a single 
standardised database is a major stumbling 
block. Our ability to cleanse and provide access 
to customer data overcomes this problem. it is 
often a starting point for additional services. 
We were pioneers in digital direct marketing 
and have been active in this area for more 
than a decade. toolkit, our marketing management 
system, empowers local managers to devise and 
manage campaigns. they can use the system to 
create brand-sensitive, tailored communications 
that meet the needs of specific customers on 
the ground. Brand managers in head offices 
can control their brands while also allowing 
far greater local involvement. 
recognising that value resides in usefulness for 
customers, we charge for usage based on the 
number of touchpoints with our systems. that 
maximises clients’ flexibility, allowing anyone 
in the business to use our systems for their 
specific needs. 
We have the infrastructure to handle 
large-scale operations. On any given day we 
may receive 10,000 electronic orders from 
around the country. a ll are processed and 
delivered within 24 hours. Our experience 
in delivering service successfully at scale 
is winning the trust of our customers and 
opening up new business opportunities.
t he r avensworth acquisition added a key piece 
to the jigsaw in our quest to deliver an integrated, 
comprehensive digital marketing service. europe’s 
largest dedicated digital printing facility produced 
around 80m digital pages for over 3,000 customers 
last year. 
Tangent now has a foothold in a significant 
vertical market. it is the market leader in the 
uK residential property market and the number 
three uK Hips supplier.
since the acquisition, the digital printing business 
has exceeded expectations. it has introduced 
new revenue streams and is rapidly diversifying 
its client base. 
more importantly, the addition of an integrated 
digital facility takes us a step closer to achieving 
our goal of providing one-stop marketing services. 
We have gained the ability to manage major 
national data-driven mailing campaigns in-house. 
business reVieW: O VerVieW
Our proprietary technologies 
allow us to offer services 
which other suppliers find 
hard to replicate. TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008  07
When Borders UK was bought from its 
American owner, they decided to terminate 
their relationship with Amazon.co.uk and 
hired Tangent to create their brand new 
British web shop. 
The 	 scale 	 of 	 the 	 project 	 proved 	 an 	 excellent 	 demonstration	
o f 	 t h e 	 p o w e r 	 a n d 	 fl e x i b i l i t y 	 o f 	 T a n g e n t 	 l a b s ’ 	 T a o s h o p 	 p r o d u c t ,	
w h i c h 	 a c c e p t e d 	 t h e i r 	 i n v e n t o r y 	 o f 	 o v e r 	 1 . 3 m 	 p r o d u c t s 	 q u i c k l y	
and easily.
innovation in the site’s faceted navigation is designed 
t o 	 make	it	as	easy	as	possible	for	visitors	to	filter	the	site’s	
extensive 	 range 	 of 	 books, 	c Ds, 	 DVDs 	 and 	 video 	 games, 	 while 	
retaining consistency of both design and layout throughout.
Tangent was also retained to run Borders’ digital 
marketing, including personalised email, pay per click 
marketing, search engine optimisation and online pR. 
using synergies from the site’s personalisation algorithms 
to personalise both advertising and communications creates 
a 	 startlingly 	 adaptive 	 and 	 engaging 	 experience 	 for 	 shoppers.
each	Borders	store	now	benefits	from	its	own	localised	
site, updated by staff using Tangent labs’ proprietary 
Web creator system. staff picks and reviews are then 
automatically uploaded to the web shop, enriching 
content and providing another key point of difference 
from its competitors.
Finally, Tangent supplies Borders’ localised marketing 
materials	with	point‑of ‑sale	materials	ordered	online	
using a simple interface, all of which are centrally 
controlled	to	be	on‑brand	and	on‑message.
Case study:
Borders & Books Etc 08  TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008
PeRSOnal
t he step-change in the scale of our business 
is enhancing our capacity to work with larger 
organisations. in the past, marketing departments 
expressed interest in our technologies, but some 
found it difficult to allocate significant budgets 
to a relatively small company. t he newcastle 
facility is helping us to make the case to clients and 
potential clients that we have the experience and 
the capabilities to handle large-scale contracts.
many of our customers are migrating their 
operations from non-digital to digital and they 
see us as a consultative partner. increasingly, 
we are being appointed on retainer to deliver 
consultancy services. 
tangent is unusual in its ongoing commitment 
to client service. We provide our customers 
with tools to measure the effectiveness of the 
multi-channel digital solutions we develop on 
their behalf and we work closely with them to 
ensure they get the most out of our systems. 
the creative dimension to the solutions we offer 
is becoming increasingly important. We always 
ensure that our data reporting is attractively 
visualised and this has led to a number of 
opportunities. We are able to deploy both designers 
and developers across multiple channels and can 
offer both local and national coverage.
by engaging closely with clients we are developing 
our knowledge and capabilities. We recently 
delivered a sophisticated e-commerce site for the 
bookseller borders. as a result of this success we 
are now working with them to develop a search 
engine marketing (sem) solution, strengthening 
our integrated offer and generating new sales 
opportunities with our existing client base. 
there are clear advantages for customers 
in using multi-channel services on a single 
platform. at the same time we recognise that 
to gain the maximum value from our services, 
customers may need to adjust their practices. 
there are business transformational issues at 
stake. We need to win customers’ confidence 
and that takes time. 
We therefore focus on establishing client 
relationships in specific areas where our 
approach adds immediate value. We compete 
against website developers for e-commerce sites, 
against it service businesses for data integration 
and analysis work and against marketing service 
companies for direct mail fulfilment. As we 
progressively win pitches on numerous fronts 
our profile is steadily increasing.
We are strengthening our positioning 
as a tightly integrated digital marketing services 
company supported by a strong technological 
infrastructure. around 25% of our revenues are 
currently generated by servicing more than one 
business area. We estimate that by the end of 
2008 multiple services will account for over 50% 
of total revenue.
t he current trend for companies to transfer above 
the line advertising budgets to below-the-line 
activities is likely to accelerate. With budgets 
constricting, marketing departments want better 
information to justify their spend. 
tangent’s positioning stands it in good stead. 
Our powerful infrastructure allows us to provide 
a bespoke service that can often be delivered 
more quickly and cost-effectively than our 
competitors. powerful tracking functionality 
allows customers to monitor and measure the 
effectiveness of their campaigns very precisely. 
We stay with our clients to deliver a joined-up 
marketing service. We provide strategic advice, 
build bespoke systems and deliver personalised 
electronic and printed materials. t hroughout 
the marketing journey we remain completely 
accountable to the client. in turn, that is helping 
us unearth new problems and allowing us to grow 
the business organically.
business reVieW: O VerVieW COntinued TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008  09
Case study:
SAP
SAP is the world’s largest supplier of 
enterprise software, and its customers 
rank among the largest organisations in 
the world. Tangent’s work with SAP centres 
on design and implementation of innovative 
new interfaces that talk directly SAP’s 
ubiquitous back-end data structures.
sap ’s application interfaces are at work in businesses 
worldwide and in use by sap itself for account and sales 
management, project management and a range of internal 
processes. Working directly with sap ’s internal iT department, 
T angent has helped create new uis (user interfaces) that bring 
together related functionality on a single screen.
as well as deep technical skill and understanding, T angent’s 
information architecture and creative teams were deployed 
t o 	 e n s u r e 	 n e w 	 d e v e l o p m e n t s 	 a r e 	 c e n t r e d 	 fi r m l y 	 a r o u n d 	 t h e	
needs 	 of 	 the 	 user , 	 promoting 	 efficiency 	 and 	 user 	 acceptance.
Tools developed by Tangent are already mature enough to 
be 	 rolled ‑ out 	 globally 	 by 	s A p	 and 	 are 	 in 	 use 	 by 	 thousands 	
o f 	 u s e r s 	 i n 	 a l l 	 fi v e 	 c o n t i n e n t s 	 o n 	 a 	 d a i l y 	 b a s i s .	
