 10  TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008
l Ocal
performance
We are pleased to report on what has been 
a breakthrough year for tangent. We have 
made significant progress towards our key 
objectives and are steadily growing the 
business. This confidence is reflected in 
the board’s announcement of the company’s 
first ever dividend payment for shareholders.
tangent doubled in size during the year. 
r evenue increased by over 100% to £17.36m 
(2007: £8.61m). Profits grew even more 
significantly. Underlying operating profit for the 
year stood at £2.44m compared with £1.07m 
in the prior year. tangent remains a strongly 
cash-generative business. Cash generated from 
our operations increased to £2.55m (£1.18m) and 
profits converted into cash at a rate of 105%.
Profitability is also up significantly. We achieved 
an operating margin of 14%, 1.6% ahead of the 
previous year’s record performance. two years 
ago we were achieving margins of just 9.5%. 
The steady improvement in profitability is an 
important indicator of the success of our strategy 
to increase the percentage of our earnings which 
come from pure technology sales.
The year in focus
We made good progress towards realising our 
ambition of building an integrated business 
with a strong technological infrastructure.
the acquisition of ravensworth in march 2007 was 
a very important step in tangent’s development. 
it created good new revenue streams. it gave us 
the capability to deliver new outputs and, crucially, 
it has given us the scale to compete for larger 
contracts and bigger clients. We are therefore 
increasing the size of the newcastle facility by 
10,000 sq ft to a total of 25,000 sq ft.
as part of t angent, the newcastle facility has 
had considerable success in attracting new clients 
with national data-driven digital campaigns. in 
december tangent started working with one of 
the uK’s largest direct marketing companies in 
converting their customer communications from 
non-personalised to personalised. a lthough 
work remains at an early stage the win was only 
achieved through the demonstration of tangent’s 
increased scale and digital capabilities. 
tangent is also providing new services in the 
property arena. From a standing start in June 
2007, tangent is now the u K’s third largest 
supplier of Home information packs (Hips) and 
we expect to improve on this position during 
the next quarter.
We have also extended our leadership in online 
local marketing solutions. With new large 
corporate accounts added we have more than 
doubled the number of daily orders received 
this year. t housands of local managers are 
now using tangent online tools to construct 
marketing campaigns using point of sale, direct 
mail, email or sms. this creates two advantages 
for local managers, first is the speed to market 
against their competitors and second is the 
ability to customise to local conditions. 
the tools we provide continue to develop 
and deliver for local branch networks and 
will provide a sector for growth in 2009.
We emphasise long-term partnerships with 
our customers. Our approach is not simply to 
provide products, but to get to grips with our 
customers’ concerns. We then propose innovative 
solutions that take advantage of the leverage 
and measurability afforded by technology. 
We design, build and operate systems to meet 
specific needs. Our customers know that we will 
not only give them the tools they need, we will 
work with them to maximise their effectiveness 
business reVieW: CHieF exeCutiVes’ reVieW
c ash generated from our 
operations increased to £2.55m. TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008  11
Politics used to involve soapbox speeches 
and an awful lot of shoe leather. In these 
days of digital and localised marketing, 
political parties still need to express their 
views perspicuously, but now have an array 
of channels to distribute carefully targeted 
materials to the voters that matter most.
Tangent is the l abour party’s digital partner, encompassing 
w e b 	 s t r a t e g y , 	 t h e i r 	 n a t i o n a l 	 w e b 	 p r e s e n c e , 	 m p s ’ 	 s e l f ‑ m a n a g e	
websites, email and mobile marketing, as well as a suite of 
services from online donations reporting to membersnet, 
labour’s highly sophisticated and secure intranet.
We also supply their fully personalised local marketing, 
which is available at a constituency level, letting local 
leaders control their own mailings. Templating is taken 
care of centrally, ensuring a level of both budgetary and 
creative control.
Tangent and Tangent labs have become trusted long term 
partners for both off and online marketing. 
“ p e o p l e 	 r e m e m b e r e d 	 m e 	 f r o m 	 t h e 	 fi r s t 	 d i r e c t 	 m a i l ,	
so i could be personal about the issues we are addressing 
in our community and pick up on the issues that have 
been raised by them.” 
James Walsh, colnbrook local labour candidate
Case study:
The Labour Party 12  TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008
Our strength in technology 
gives us a clear competitive 
advantage in our core markets.
Mul TI‑ 
channel
business reVieW: CHieF exeCutiVes’ re VieW COntinued
71% 
of total revenue realised through 
Tangent’s proprietary technology 
platforms
Ravensworth client base grows to
3,000 
up 27% against prior year
and will remain accountable. For example, from 
building a retail website hosting 1.3m products 
we were able to add a fully integrated search and 
email marketing service.
the ability to measure marketing effectiveness 
is a key element in what we can offer. technology 
and pressure on budgets are driving demands 
for improved measurability from marketing 
professionals. Our strength in technology gives 
us a clear competitive advantage in our core 
markets as well as generating intellectual property 
which enables us to move into new markets, for 
example through our joint venture Zui.
outlook
We are generally confident about the outlook 
for the business.
in the year under review we saw uncharacteristic 
seasonal fluctuation in the business. The property 
market is traditionally most active in the first half, 
and our interim profits reflected this. This seasonality 
is not expected to be repeated in the current year, 
partly because the contribution from property 
particulars is down due to the state of the property 
market, but more significantly because the business 
has grown into other sectors. 
We are seeing growth in our technology-based and 
online activities and we expect to see this growth 
offset any decline in our property business. We are 
experiencing growth in high margin digital services 
such as e-commerce, websites, search marketing 
and email delivery. We have gained some important 
new clients for our local digital solutions. 
tangent is a growing business. We remain alert 
to opportunities to scale up our activities, through 
organic growth, by extending the breadth of 
what we offer and, where relevant, via strategic 
acquisitions. We continue to focus on growing 
while remaining a strongly cash-generative business. 
We expect to see consolidation opportunities 
arise during the year and we are well placed 
to take advantage. 
We would like to thank all employees for their 
hard work and excellent contribution during the 
year and look forward to another year of growth.
nicholas green and Timothy green
Joint chief executives
14 may 2008 TangenT communica Tions plc  annual report and accounts 2008  13
As a significant supplier to the UK property 
market, Ravensworth’s potential for providing 
an end-to-end service for printed Home 
Information Packs presented an opportunity 
to add considerable incremental volume 
to the business. 
With over 3,000 estate agency branches already using 
Ravensworth’s infrastructure and ordering system on 
a	daily	basis,	we	started	with	a	significant	head	start	in	
rolling out this new product. 
The other advantage was our insight into the property 
m a r k e t , 	 w h i c h 	 e n a b l e d 	 u s 	 t o 	 b u i l d 	 a 	 u n i q u e 	 p o r t f o l i o	
of Hips provider clients, servicing both localised markets 
v i a 	 s o l i c i t o r s 	 a n d 	 e s t a t e 	 a g e n t ‑ b a s e d 	 p a c k 	 s u p p l i e r s 	 a s	
well as nationwide corporate providers and high volume 
conveyancing organisations.
Ravensworth’s proprietary technology collects pack content 
from any source, controls document layout, composition 
and template design, applies correct branding and outputs 
print ‑ ready 	 files 	 for 	 web 	 upload 	 or 	 distribution 	 by 	 email.
All	printed	packs	are	dispatched	within	48	hours	of	order	
receipt,	with	month‑on‑month	growth	already	exceeding	
30% and a healthy pipeline of opportunities, which we 
expect	to	continue	to	deliver	strong	revenue	growth.
Case study:
HIPs
