 04 tangent communications plc annual report 2007
The fastest growing team within Tangent 
is our programming resource, now with 
over 20 full time people
Toolkit saw a 65% increase in order 
volume during the year
In the year ended 28 February 2007, Tangent increased its 
performance in each of its internal key performance indicators. 
Turnover increased by 30% to £8.61m, adjusted operating margin 
increased by 2.9% points to 12.4%, adjusted operating profits 
increased by 71% to £1.07m and cash flow from operations for the 
year increased from  £0.54m to £1.18m. 
technology
Marketing departments are increasingly looking to technology to 
improve the effectiveness of their campaigns. However they often 
do not have the tools to extract information from their databases. 
This is where Tangent’s services come in to play. 
Technology sits at the heart of our business strategy and last year we 
took a significant step in increasing our capabilities through the acquisition 
of C360 UK (now Tangent Labs) with its proprietary engine TaoBase. 
Furthermore we continued our investment into Toolkit, our proprietary 
web tool. Today, through TaoBase and Toolkit we can offer our clients 
a range of technology-driven services which include:
• database management, construction and integration;
• website design and build;
• build of local marketing applications;
• targeted email marketing with optimising tracking capabilities;
• SMS and MMS marketing services; and
• display, point of sale and direct mail communications.
The group currently employs over 20 full time programmers 
focused on client requirements and increasing the scope of 
Tangent’s digital services. 
chief executives’ review
_1_tan_ar07_front.indd   6 20/06/2007   10:10:42 05 tangent communications plc annual report 2007
market development
Orders generated via Toolkit, Tangent’s proprietary online ordering 
system increased by 65% year on year and by 225% over a three year 
period. This is in part due to the increased functionality but primarily 
due to the increase in customer numbers and willingness to change the 
way in which marketing collateral is created and used. The retail market 
is the primary target sector for Tangent’s online marketing tool. 
Online marketing continues to grow at significant rates. Tangent is 
now firmly established as a company capable of building complex 
and innovative web solutions which culminated in April 2007 with 
Tangent being selected via a competitive pitch to build the new 
website for the Labour Party. Tangent won against competition 
with larger, more developed agencies within larger network groups. 
Tangent believes that its success derives from being a younger, more 
innovative business, well positioned to participate in technological 
developments in the market, including the introduction of Web 2.0. 
The directors believe that this firmly sets the foundation for Tangent 
to grow this side of our business.
Market researchers predict that marketing applications are one of 
the fastest growing Customer Relationship Management (CRM) 
areas in the IT sector and T angent expects to benefit from the continued 
migration of marketing budgets from offline to online.
financial control
Margins have now improved each year since Tangent was formed 
in July 2005. Despite parts of the business operating in what is sometimes 
perceived as a competitive market place, Tangent’s value-add and focus 
on technology services have allowed the group to increase its margin 
year on year. 
Cash conversion also remains at the heart of our business practice and 
this year operating cash more than doubled. The group’s strong cash 
position allows it to retain a strong negotiating stance with suppliers, 
clients and acquisition targets and cash generation will continue to 
remain a core focus going forward. 
chief executives’ review New Look
In January 2007 Tangent launched a 
Toolkit site for New Look which provides 
over 700 stores with an online environment 
for recruitment.
Emma Conway, New Look Recruitment 
Manager, explains “Toolkit is a fantastic 
resource that allows us to be more consistent 
and up-to-date with our advertising and 
recruitment materials. It is easy to use, 
allowing us to send materials to stores 
at the click of a button – essential when 
working in the fast paced environment 
of New Look.”
In January 2007 Tangent launched a 
_1_tan_ar07_front.indd   7 20/06/2007   10:10:44 06 tangent communications plc annual report 2007
Ravensworth
The acquisition of Ravensworth was completed in March 2007 and 
brings a significant number of different opportunities to the group. 
As a stand alone business Ravensworth’s sales grew by 15% last year 
on a net margin of 16%. Over 365 new clients were won in the last 
six months of 2006. 
Ravensworth is the leading supplier of full colour marketing literature 
to the UK property sector. The company operates from a purpose 
built 23,000 sq. ft. digital production facility housing the latest 
in digital printing equipment. From a client list of over 2,500 estate 
agency branches, Ravensworth receives over 2,000 orders per day 
producing over 7m full colour A4 pages a month.
Ravensworth’s experience and unique understanding of its core 
market have led to the continued growth in all areas of business 
with customer numbers increasing by 24% in the last twelve 
months. It now accounts for approximately 20% of the UK market 
and is more than three times the size of its closest competitor. 
Having established a market leading position, we are confident 
in its ability to continue expanding its core market together with 
offering further value added services to its current customer base.
Tangent’s expertise in direct mail represents a great opportunity 
when applied to the Ravensworth client base. Within Tangent’s 
existing business we have witnessed a great take-up from property 
clients looking to increase new customers via targeted direct mail. 
This new approach will be sold by the Ravensworth team to its client 
base which has not previously used Ravensworth for this service. 
It is also our intention to launch a web portal which will enable every 
estate agent in the UK to create, personalise, proof and order online, 
a targeted direct mail campaign.
It is probable that new government legislation will mean that a 
Home Information Pack (HIP) will have to be created and produced by 
the vendor with each property sold via the estate agent. Ravensworth 
took part in the trials for the creation of HIPs. If the legislation is enacted, 
we expect Ravensworth to benefit, having signed indicative agreements 
with most of the HIP providers in the UK. The directors have not 
included any contribution from this opportunity into the management 
budget, however if legislation is enacted we believe the opportunity 
will be significant.
chief executives’ review continued
Ravensworth has over 2,500 individual branches using its 
software to generate digital orders on a daily basis.
Ravensworth
From left to right Kevin Cameron, 
Suzie Pattison and Ian Gordon
_1_tan_ar07_front.indd   8 20/06/2007   10:10:48 07 tangent communications plc annual report 2007
outlook
The new financial year, beginning March 2007, has begun with all group 
areas ahead of budget. The integration of Ravensworth and transfer 
of work from London to Newcastle are currently ahead of schedule 
and the company is on track to realise annual savings of in excess 
of £100,000. This leaves the company in a strong position to begin 
examining phase two of the work transfer process. Ravensworth 
experienced its strongest ever months in March and April 2007 
with new client revenue from the wins in 2006 coming through. 
In the coming year we will integrate TaoBase with Toolkit, creating a 
unified technology platform within Tangent, which will provide clients 
with increased functionality within a central operating environment. 
Finally we would like to thank the team for working so hard to 
help us achieve our objectives. It is their passion, creativity and ability 
to deliver client exceeding results that continues to fuel Tangent’s 
growth. We look forward to building on Tangent’s strong 
performance in the year ahead. 
Nicholas Green Timothy Green
joint chief executive joint chief executive
16 May 2007
chief executives’ review continued Labour Party
Tangent provides the Labour Party with 
a wide range of services, all powered by 
TaoBase and Toolkit. The services range 
from Labour’s national website to a system 
for reporting loans and donations from 
around 700 accounting units to Head Office. 
We provide a secure intranet system which 
allows Labour members to converse in a 
closed environment, or publish their own 
blogs and websites to the general public. 
This system integrates with Labour’s 
membership database, to allow members 
to manage their personal details online, 
and to allow the party to deliver tailored 
communications to each member.
Tangent created personalised, digitally 
printed postcards which were sent to 
voters ‘from’ their local candidates, inviting 
the voters to give their views on local issues. 
The candidates each had a login to TaoBase, 
where they could directly follow up with the 
voters. TaoBase automatically selected those 
voters who had not responded and sent 
them follow up materials.This enabled the 
Labour Party, at a national level, to provide 
local campaigners with a customisable 
campaign, which could be driven both 
locally and centrally at a much lower cost 
than traditional campaigns.
_1_tan_ar07_front.indd   9 20/06/2007   10:10:55
