 02 tangent communications plc annual report 2007
chairman’s statement
Tangent Labs’ sales run rate increased 
100% post acquisition
Ravensworth had the busiest month 
in the company’s history in April 2007, 
the first full month of ownership
Tangent’s financial performance in the year ended 28 February 2007 
showed strong growth in all the key performance indicators. Adjusted 
basic earnings per share before exceptional items increased by 16% to 
0.95p and net cash inflow from operations more than doubled to £1.18m. 
We acquired C360 UK Ltd (now re-named Tangent Labs) in July 2006 
which greatly enhanced our ability to provide customised marketing 
services across the internet, mobile and print media. Since taking 
ownership, Tangent Labs’ sales run rate has increased by over 100% 
by developing and selling its proprietary technology to an increasing 
customer base, including T angent clients. The company now plays a central 
role in creating the group’s value-add and in differentiating our 
client proposition.
In March 2007, subsequent to the year end, we acquired 
Ravensworth Digital Services for £5.85m, mainly funded by the issue 
of 46.6m shares placed at 13p. Ravensworth is a digital marketing 
business serving the property sector and has focused on installing its 
software and web based ordering system within estate agents and 
providing them with an overnight print and delivery service for their 
marketing materials. In its financial year ended 31 December 2006, 
turnover was £6.9m with adjusted operating profits of £1.1m. Based 
in Newcastle, in a modern, purpose built facility, the Ravensworth 
management team is quickly demonstrating how its customers 
and the plant utilisation can benefit from Tangent’s technology and 
marketing. We are currently ahead of budget in achieving anticipated 
phase one cost savings. 
The positive momentum has continued into the current 
financial year and each area of our business has started the 
year ahead of budget.
_1_tan_ar07_front.indd   4 20/06/2007   10:10:27 03 tangent communications plc annual report 2007
chairman’s statement
Tangent Marketing Services continued to grow and in November 2006 
we announced the launch of the Wolseley branch marketing Toolkit 
site which immediately exceeded our usage expectations and continues 
to expand across a number of other individual brands which use the site. 
prospects
The positive momentum has continued into the current financial year 
and each area of our business has started the year ahead of budget.
As it is the executives and all our employees who deliver the revenues 
and profits that drive shareholder value, I feel able to congratulate 
and thank them for a year of excellent achievements and for a lot 
more hard work below the surface working on potential opportunities. 
Finally, following his appointment in March 2007, I would also like to 
welcome Paul Murray to the board. Paul brings significant corporate 
experience coupled with a great understanding of the marketing 
services and technology sectors.
Piers Caldecote
non-executive chairman
16 May 2007 
Menu Builder
The Menu Builder project enables 
Greene King pubs to build bespoke menus 
from a database of menu choices populated 
by CyberChef. 
The data includes the menu title, description, 
cost price, suggested retail price and the 
corresponding gross profit margin. Constructed 
within the tool is an online recipe card 
illustrating how products should be cooked 
and what equipment is needed. During 
the process of building a menu the tool 
automatically generates hints which offer 
the publican choices which complement 
their proposed menu.
Menu Builder also provides a detailed online 
analysis of the selected menu covering gross 
profit, which aids the publican when forecasting 
profits from food sales.
_1_tan_ar07_front.indd   5 20/06/2007   10:10:35
