 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 06
Chairman’s report
Mike Redmond Chairman
“Abcam has performed well in the financial year ended 
30 June 2011, and we were particularly encouraged to 
see such strong growth in the Far East.” 
 > We have recommended an increase in 
the total annual dividend by 31.1%, 
subject to approval by shareholders 
at the AGM.
 > To ensure continued high growth, 
our strategy is evolving to extend 
our product offerings into the 
broader market of protein 
research tools.
 > With our extensive market presence 
and adaptable distribution platform, 
we are ideally placed to build on 
our success.
 > I thank Tim Dye and Mark Webster, 
who have decided to step down from 
the Board after the AGM, for the 
tremendous contribution they have 
each made to Abcam’s success.
 > We look forward to welcoming 
Tony Martin to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director later 
this month.
Introduction
Abcam has performed well in the 
financial year ended 30 June 2011 
against a background of uncertainty in 
our core market and we have continued 
to make significant strides in pursuit of our 
strategic objectives. We continue to take 
market share in our core primary antibody 
business and have further broadened our 
range of other reagents involved in protein 
research, not least through the acquisition 
of MitoSciences. With our extensive market 
presence and adaptable distribution 
platform, we are ideally placed to build 
on this success.
Strategy and outlook
A significant proportion of our 
customers are universities and other 
centres of research excellence which rely 
on government funding. For several years 
we have expressed caution that the way 
in which Western governments adjust their 
spending patterns may affect our business. 
It has become apparent during the year 
that it is not only actual reductions that 
have an impact on researchers’ spending, 
but the threat of cuts can be sufficient to 
cause a reaction as well. As noted in our 
interim report, we saw this in the UK earlier 
in the year, and we have seen a similar 
effect in the US more recently as a result 
of the protracted discussions on addressing 
their economic situation.
Elsewhere, areas of Europe have been 
impacted to a lesser degree and we are 
encouraged to see that China continues 
to show strong growth. Performance in 
Japan has also remained strong, despite 
the disruption caused by the earthquake 
and subsequent tsunami. This validates 
our continued focus on international 
expansion to progressively reduce our 
exposure to any one region.
Decisions have been taken recently by 
governments such as in the US, to reduce 
their funding for research and others may 
follow. Whilst this will present challenges 
for our business there is little experience 
to draw on as to what its impact may be 
on our growth. The strength of our business 
model, which enables us to make rapid 
additions to the catalogue and deliver 
high quality products, has allowed us to 
gain market share and grow strongly even 
when increases in funding budgets have 
been modest. For example, in the US the 
National Institutes of Health (NIH) budget 
increased by a compound annual average 
of around 2% between 2005 and 2010 
(excluding the stimulus to the US economy 
during 2009/10 from the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act 2009 (ARRA)), during 
which time Abcam’s sales in the US grew 
by a compound annual rate of almost 29%. 
We also have a degree of defensibility as 
sellers of consumables rather than large 
ticket items, which are more likely to 
be affected.
Trading in the new financial year reflects the 
market conditions above, however, revenue 
growth continues and profits are on track 
to meet consensus market expectations.
As explained in more detail in the 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review, the Board 
is implementing a strategy of extending 
our product offerings into fields adjacent 
to antibodies, under the wider umbrella 
of protein research tools. These additional 
IN SUMMARY
abcamplc.com/reports Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
07
areas will be accessed by OEM deals and 
where appropriate by acquisition, such was 
the case with MitoSciences, which brings 
both new products and a development 
capability. We believe that these strategies 
will ensure that Abcam in the long term 
continues to grow faster than the markets 
in which it operates.
Corporate governance
Abcam values corporate governance 
highly and this is reflected in our 
governance principles, policies and 
practices. The Board believes that effective 
corporate governance will assist in the 
delivery of our corporate strategy, the 
generation of shareholder value and the 
safeguarding of shareholders’ long-term 
interests. We are committed therefore, 
wherever it is reasonably practicable, 
to ensure that the Group is managed in 
accordance with the principles set out 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
as appropriate to the Group considering 
its size and stage of development.
Directors
After helping to guide Abcam through 
a period of rapid growth over the last five 
years, Tim Dye and Mark Webster have 
both decided to step down from the Board 
after next month’s Annual General Meeting 
(AGM). Consequently, the opportunity 
has been taken to review the balance 
of financial, sector specific and general 
business skills represented on the Board 
and I am very pleased to announce that 
Tony Martin, who has wide life science 
research tools experience, will be joining 
as a Non-Executive Director later this 
month. We have also identified that 
the Company would benefit from the 
appointment of a Non-Executive Director 
with broad eCommerce experience and 
we hope to be able to announce another 
appointment soon.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
Tim and Mark for the tremendous contribution 
they have each made to Abcam’s success.
Dividends
The Board announced in the Company’s 
interim results its intention to increase 
the dividend distribution ratio to 40% of 
post-tax profit, in light of the strong cash flow 
and continued success of the Group. An 
interim dividend of 1.45 pence per share 
was paid in April 2011 and consequently 
the Directors are recommending a final 
dividend of 3.80 pence per share, making 
a total of 5.25 pence for the year, an increase 
of 31.1% on that paid last year. Subject 
to shareholder approval at the AGM 
in October, the final dividend will be paid 
on 25 November 2011 to shareholders 
on the register on 4 November 2011.
Investing  
in talent
Our people are our biggest asset and investment in 
the learning and development of staff continues to be 
significant. This year we implemented a Management 
Framework training programme to develop leadership 
skills in the business. We conduct an annual staff survey 
and are delighted to have over 96% participation. 
Stakeholders
Once again I would like to extend my thanks 
to our staff on which Abcam’s success is 
built and offer a warm welcome to the 
Group to the employees of MitoSciences. 
We would also like to thank all our other 
stakeholders – customers, suppliers and 
shareholders – whose continued support 
also contributes to our success.
Mike Redmond
Chairman 
12 September 2011
21%
increase in visits to our website
360,000
+
units shipped during the year
