 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10
Business review: Chief Executive Officer’s review
Jonathan Milner Chief Executive Officer
I am delighted to report on another 
successful year for Abcam. Total sales 
for the year were £83.3m (2010: £71.1m), 
including £0.2m from our new subsidiary 
MitoSciences, which was acquired on 
23 May 2011. This represents organic 
growth of 16.9%, or 16.8% on a constant 
currency basis, assuming exchange rates 
had been the same as those recorded 
throughout the prior year.
Our strategy is to deliver profitable 
growth by:
 > introducing high quality products to 
our catalogue to continue to enhance 
the breadth of the product range, 
as well as increasing our range of 
primary antibodies;
 > continuing to increase the validation 
information on the products in the 
catalogue from as many relevant 
sources as possible; 
 > extending our geographic penetration; and
 > further improving our customer service 
and support.
During the year we have made significant 
progress on all these fronts. Our aim is to 
continue to build on our success within the 
“Our aim is to continue to build on our 
success within the primary antibody market, 
whilst using our established market reach and 
distribution platform to achieve strong growth 
in related life science tools markets.”
 > Organic revenue growth of 16.9%, 
with non-primary antibody products 
now representing 8.5% of total sales.
 > Successful acquisition and integration 
of MitoSciences, with over 200 
products added to our catalogue 
within six weeks of acquisition.
 > 10,642 products added to the 
catalogue in the year, generating 
£2.8m of sales.
 > Redesign of the public website 
homepage to support more product 
ranges and better identify and 
present cross-selling opportunities.
 > Increase of over 100% in the 
number of images added to the 
data in our catalogue.
 > Continue to focus on geographic 
expansion in markets where 
government research funding is 
increasing and on building out the 
extended catalogue both organically 
and perhaps through M&A activity.
3000
+
non-primary antibody products 
added to our catalogue
“Since launching a new 
range of Apoptosis Assay 
kits we achieved 25% 
uplift in sales over the year. 
These kits quickly and easily 
measure activity by metabolic 
analyte and are used by 
scientists predominantly 
working in cancer research. 
Abcam is already well 
positioned to serve 
researchers in this area 
so it’s easier for us to bring 
new products to market 
through our existing 
customer base.”
Gus Mzumara, Reagents Product Manager
IN SUMMARY Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
11
primary antibody market, whilst using our 
established market reach and powerful 
distribution platform to achieve strong 
growth in related life science tools markets. 
The drive for efficiency improvements is core 
to the way we operate and, despite increasing 
the proportion of non-antibody products 
that we handle, we were able to take 
advantage of the operational gearing in the 
business to increase profit before tax by 
25.1% to £32.3m (2010: £25.8m) before 
costs of £0.2m associated with the acquisition 
of MitoSciences. EPS increased by 23.0% 
to 13.23 pence (2010: 10.76 pence).
Market review
Figure 1 overleaf outlines the revenues 
derived from each region in Sterling, as 
well as underlying currencies, giving year 
on year growth rates.
Sales in The Americas grew by 16.0% 
to $58.3m (2010: $50.2m), representing 
44.2% of our total sales for the year. After 
an unusually strong first half of our fiscal 
year we have seen more cautious spending 
amongst academic researchers which 
reduced growth in the second half. A large 
proportion of US research funding is provided 
by the NIH and we believe that this caution 
was caused by uncertainty surrounding the 
outcome of central government negotiations 
on the setting of the NIH budget.
The relationship between US funding 
and its impact on Abcam’s sales is 
complex and we have grown for many 
years significantly ahead of NIH’s budget 
levels, increases in which have been 
modest. Furthermore, as a provider of 
research tool consumables, Abcam can 
expect to be less affected by reductions 
in the NIH budget than, for example, those 
companies supplying more expensive 
laboratory equipment. 
The total budget for life science NIH 
research was around $30.3bn in the 
calendar year 2009, $31.2bn in 2010 
and is estimated to be $30.9bn in 2011. 
The outlook for NIH funding thereafter is 
likely to be caught up in budget reviews 
by the recently established Joint Select 
Committee on Deficit Reduction, which 
is charged with substantially reducing 
the US deficit over the next ten years.
Continued growth: what we're doing
Introducing new 
products to complement 
our existing range
This year we added more than 3000 non-primary 
antibody products to the catalogue and have 
successfully launched a number of new 
product ranges.
Through our proven OEM model, we are able to 
source popular research tools that complement 
our existing catalogue and consolidate products 
into distinct ranges for easy use by researchers. 
Customer adoption rates to new products have 
been high; utilising existing marketing channels 
and our geographic reach we were able to grow 
sales of non-primary antibody products by over 
50% over the year.
Our target going forward is to increase sales 
of non-primary antibodies so they represent 
over 10% of overall sales.  Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
Business review continued: Chief Executive Officer’s review
These figures exclude the ARRA stimulus 
to the US economy during 2009/10, which 
provided around $10.4bn to NIH funding. 
It is difficult to determine whether, or to 
what extent, Abcam’s sales increased 
as a consequence of ARRA, although it is 
possible given that grants typically run for 
two to three years, that some of these 
funds are still being spent. 
As well as adding new high quality 
products and a proven assay development 
capability, the acquisition of MitoSciences 
will also enable us to consolidate our 
customer service and technical support 
functions on the West Coast in Eugene, 
Oregon. Based on our earlier success 
we will, however, retain our marketing 
presence in California.
Sales to Europe grew by 13.3% to 
€25.5m (2010: €22.5m), representing 
26.3% of our total sales for the year. 
Our main European markets continue 
to be Germany and France, both of which 
performed satisfactorily. The rest of Europe 
is made up of a number of smaller 
markets, many of which also performed 
acceptably. A notable exception is Italy 
where a combination of new administrative 
requirements and disappointing local 
distributor performance, which has since 
been addressed, led to a reduction in year 
on year sales of 9.8%. Our focus remains 
on providing high levels of customer 
support, including in local language for 
the larger European countries if there is 
sufficient potential in the market to justify it. 
During the year we added customer support 
in Spanish.
We had a successful year in the UK where 
uncertainty caused by the government’s 
spending review negatively impacted on 
sales in the first half of the year. Sales 
growth subsequently improved in the 
second half to give total sales for the year 
of £6.3m (2010: £5.6m), representing 
growth of 10.8%. The UK accounted for 
7.5% of total Group sales.
Our business in Japan has been remarkably 
robust in the face of the adversities caused 
by the earthquake and tsunami which hit the 
country in March. This is due in no small 
part to the dedicated and steadfast way our 
staff performed during very difficult times. 
The directly affected area in the North of 
the country represented around 5% of our 
Japanese business but, despite widespread 
disruption, we were trading again with the 
rest of the country within a few days. 
During the year we also increased the 
coverage of our overall product range 
which is available in Japan and are very 
happy to report sales growth of 20.4% to 
¥1,183m (2010: ¥983m). This represented 
10.8% of our total Group sales for the year.
In Hong Kong and China we now 
have distributor arrangements in the key 
cities that are the centres for life science 
research. Our focus now is to build on 
these relationships and to improve 
customer service. Initiatives undertaken 
during the year include increasing 
the marketing materials available in 
Mandarin and reorganising our logistics 
arrangements into China, allowing us 
to ship directly into Beijing and cut our 
delivery times to customers. We continue 
to expect China to be a strong growth 
prospect for us in the coming financial 
year and we have a number of options for 
better supporting sales in the region under 
consideration, including holding inventory 
in the region. Sales to China increased to 
HK$48.1m (2010: HK$34.3m), representing 
a growth rate of 40.1% and now accounting 
for 4.7% of Group sales.
Sales to the Rest of the World, predominantly 
the remainder of South East Asia, increased 
by 27.4% to $8.6m (2010: $6.8m), 
representing 6.5% of total sales for the year. 
Our local team based in Hong Kong is now 
managing our Asia Pacific business, which is 
mostly served through our distributor network. 
Whilst we have had some tremendous 
success such as in South Korea, trading in 
Singapore, which represents less than 1% 
of our total sales, has been more difficult, with 
little growth in the year due to government 
spending cuts.
All the regional sales figures above exclude 
sales of $0.3m made by MitoSciences, 
which was acquired in May this year. We 
are delighted to have acquired a company 
with skilled personnel in assay development 
capability and a product pipeline to build 
on its existing high quality mitochondrial 
research tools portfolio. The integration of 
the business has gone well and over 200 
MitoSciences products went live in the 
Abcam catalogue at the beginning of July. 
I have personally met the MitoSciences 
team in Oregon and was extremely 
impressed; again I would like to take this 
opportunity to welcome them to Abcam 
and thank them for their continuing 
commitment to the Abcam mission.
Figure 1: Regional revenue
 Revenue in underlying currency Revenue as reported in Sterling
            2010/11 
       2010/11 2009/10 % growth 2010/11 2009/10 % of total*
The Americas      $58.3m $50.2m 16.0% £36.7m £31.8m 44.2%
Europe (excluding UK)     €25.5m €22.5m 13.3% £21.8m £19.8m 26.3%
UK       £6.3m £5.6m 10.8% £6.3m £5.6m 7.5%
Japan       ¥1,183m ¥983m 20.4% £9.0m £6.8m 10.8%
Hong Kong/China     HK$48.1m HK$34.3m 40.1% £3.9m £2.8m 4.7%
Rest of the World      $8.6m $6.8m 27.4% £5.4m £4.3m 6.5%
MitoSciences      $0.3m n/a n/a £0.2m n/a —
          £83.3m £71.1m 100.0%
* Excluding reveune from MitoSciences. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
13
Continued growth: what we’re doing
Focus on adding 
product data
A key differentiator for Abcam is the technical 
data that supports our products and a focus on 
adding value through product features continues 
to be a core element of the business strategy. 
Working with our in-house laboratory, this 
year we implemented a rigorous product 
characterisation project that tested over 3,000 
antibodies in a combination of applications 
such as Western blot and immunohistochemistry. 
To meet customer demand and market trends 
we will extend testing to include more applications, 
such as flow cytometry, which also complement 
our extended product offering. 
In addition to in-house testing, we are also 
able to characterise products through third 
party collaborations and we continue to work 
with our suppliers to ensure data is made 
available at the source. 
“We are delighted at the 
rate we are able to test 
products and how quickly 
this new data becomes 
available on the website 
and impacts sales. Following 
the success of this project, 
we are implementing 
similar testing for new 
product types.”
David Harvey, Senior Laboratory Technician
1,317
images added to our portfolio 
during the year Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14
Catalogue growth and diversification
We have increased the number of products 
in the catalogue by 16.9% during the year 
to 73,652, of which over 57,000 are 
primary antibodies. Of the 10,642 new 
products, 7,000 are primary antibodies 
from our supplier base and almost 500 
were our own produced antibodies. In 
addition to adding over 1,500 secondary 
antibodies, we have continued to extend 
the breadth of antibody-related reagents 
we offer such as ELISA kits, IHC reagents, 
and proteins, the additions of which in the 
period totalled almost 1,600 products.
New products added during the year 
contributed £2.8m to sales in total, 
representing 3.4% of total sales. We 
expect sales of these products to grow 
as they mature on the catalogue and 
as information is added to them.
eCommerce and marketing
As our main sales tool, the performance 
of the website is key to our success and 
we have continued to invest to improve 
its security, accessibility and functionality. 
During the year we completed an exercise 
involving the relocation of our servers to a 
market-leading hosting facility in order to 
improve website scalability and resilience 
and to further reduce downtime. 
We have also invested in the website 
specifically to promote non-primary 
antibody products more effectively, whilst 
also launching a record number of these 
products. Consequently we have seen 
an increase in data sheet viewings for 
non-primary antibody products of over 
60% in the year. Indeed, the transitioning 
from ‘the largest catalogue of the best 
antibodies in the world’ to a company 
with the potential to become a world 
leader in all protein research tools is 
underway as can be seen in changes to 
the public website where the homepage 
has been redesigned to support more 
product ranges and better identify and 
present cross-selling opportunities.
Our conference programme continues 
to attract the key leaders in the fields 
with 200 key opinion leaders presenting 
cutting edge discoveries to over 2,000 
delegates. In total we held 18 conferences 
in 13 locations across all our core focus 
areas. Of particular note was our first 
Business review continued: Chief Executive Officer’s review
Continued growth: what we’re doing
Developing our business 
through communication
Sound market intelligence and customer insight remain 
critically important to making well informed business 
decisions on new products and initiatives. 
We have a dedicated market research team who 
conduct web and phone based surveys, as well 
as in-person customer interviews. In addition to 
monitoring customer satisfaction levels of products 
and services, this team examines the viability of 
new markets and monitors Abcam’s core business. 
Information is shared across business units and 
we ensure customer feedback is acted upon. 
A key strength is the speed with which we are able 
to identify and assess opportunities and implement 
business strategies.  Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
15
cancer and metabolism conference 
relevant for our MitoSciences range and 
our epigenetics conferences which have 
a reputation as second to none. New for 
the year was the introduction of a webinar 
series of online technical seminars and 
tutorials. They complement our traditional 
conference programme and both combined 
are highly effective tools in staying close 
to our customers to guide product 
development, improve our service 
offering and sell more products. 
Our production facility
Having units in stock available for 
immediate shipment is a key component 
in our objective to improve delivery times 
for customers. To that end we have focused 
this year on a project to increase stock 
levels for our own produced antibodies, 
with the aim of holding sufficient levels to 
meet at least two years’ worth of sales for 
a targeted list covering most of our own 
manufactured products. This aim is to 
reduce the risk of not having sufficient 
stock on hand to fulfil orders directly and 
also means that we can improve production 
efficiencies by being able to schedule 
production well in advance of the stock 
being required. The project has gone well 
and is expected to be completed during 
the 2011/12 financial year.
Production in the year was again at record 
levels and improvements to our processes 
saw better project success rates and yields, 
resulting in lower unit costs. In particular 
we have also introduced new innovative 
screening technology which has been 
applied very successfully to the production 
of antibodies, particularly those which 
have historically been harder to make. 
The facility is also heavily involved in our 
strategy of adding data to the catalogue 
from a range of sources. In the year under 
review the number of images added by 
the facility or specifically commissioned 
from third parties increased by over 100%, 
thanks to a major focus on increasing our 
in-house capability.
Efficiency initiatives 
We continue to drive for more efficiency in 
the business and this year was no exception. 
We are investing in two new Compound 
machines to enable us to increase our 
“Secondary antibodies 
are a natural extension 
to the catalogue. 
To understand customer 
perception of products 
in this range and their 
purchasing behaviours, we 
worked with the market 
research team to identify 
opportunities. We have 
since sourced additional 
products to support the 
portfolio; these are 
already on the catalogue 
and selling well.”
Annina Hube, CFA Marketing Coordinator
Customer satisfaction 
is measured continuously 
via phone and web surveys 
in key regions and we have 
the capability to conduct 
these in local languages. 
92%
of customers rate Abcam’s 
products as good or excellent
abcamplc.com/reports
Distribution of products on the catalogue
  Primary  
antibodies 57,007
  Secondary  
antibodies 2,382
  Proteins and 
peptides 10,546
  Other products 3,717
Images added in the year, by application
1,317
436
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
  Immunocytochemistry/
Immunofluorescence
  Immunohistochemistry 
 Western Blot
 Flow Cytometry
2009/10 2010/11 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16
Business review continued: Chief Executive Officer’s review
Continued growth: what we’re doing
Acquisition of  
MitoSciences
This year Abcam acquired MitoSciences, a leading 
provider of mitochondrial research tools based in Eugene, 
USA. Their 200 products include high performance 
monoclonal antibodies and related products for use 
in metabolism research, which complements Abcam’s 
existing product range and customer base in this area.
MitoSciences has heavily invested in R&D and is known 
for high quality, easy to use and sophisticated assay 
products. The acquisition extends Abcam’s manufacturing 
and product development capabilities and supports our 
brand repositioning beyond antibodies. 
Combined with Abcam’s existing product range and 
global market reach, together we are a leading provider 
of tools for metabolism research worldwide.
“The integration of 
MitoSciences has been smooth, 
from both an internal systems 
perspective and customer 
experience. Products were 
available via our website 
within six weeks. We share 
the same values of product 
quality and customer support 
excellence which has also 
made transitioning easy.”
Elodie Giuge, Corporate Projects Manager
“The MitoSciences team is 
delighted with the level of 
integration we have been 
able to achieve in such a 
short time. As well as aligning 
our systems and strategy, 
we have worked to promote 
effective communication 
between offices. We all look 
forward to a very successful 
future ahead.”
John Audette, General Manager, MitoSciences Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
17
product handling capacity, one each in the 
UK and the US. One of these was delivered, 
installed and commissioned before the year 
end, and the other will be brought into use 
early in 2011/12. Together, these machines 
almost double our minus 20 degree storage 
capacity, the temperature at which the 
majority of our finished goods are held.
It has taken many years of process 
improvement to achieve the high levels 
of efficiency at which we operate our 
primary antibody business. The introduction 
of more new products to the catalogue 
presents challenges to which we are 
applying many of the techniques we 
have developed over time, to limit any 
adverse impact on overall efficiency.
Strategic development 
We believe that Abcam has the right 
strategy and positioning in the market 
to develop its world-leading antibody 
business into a broadly based global 
life science tools company, delivering 
sustainable value creation for researchers 
and shareholders. Our success to date 
has been built on promoting feedback 
to identify our customers’ requirements 
and adapting our business to fulfil these 
in as efficient a way as possible, whilst 
offering the broadest range of the highest 
quality products, coupled with the best 
customer service and support. This approach 
is ongoing and we continue to improve 
our offering, for example, by extending our 
product performance guarantee this year 
from four to six months from delivery. 
We are proud of the fact that in feedback 
over 92% of our customers rate our service 
as good or excellent.
Our plan to build out from this position 
is already bearing fruit and non-primary 
antibody product sales grew by over 
50% in the year, now representing 8.5% 
of total sales. These early successes in 
protein research products that sit alongside 
antibodies on the research bench are 
extremely encouraging and justify our faith 
in our expansion strategy. We are therefore 
excited about our prospects in building out 
the extended catalogue both organically 
through partnering and perhaps through 
M&A activity.
However, we should not be blind to the 
challenges that lie ahead. Over 80% of our 
sales are funded by public money, mainly 
through research grants, and we have seen 
cuts in public spending in order to reduce 
budget deficits, especially in the US and 
the UK, which will provide headwinds for 
Abcam in the short to medium term. 
Although the world economic climate 
looks uncertain for the next few years, the 
fundamentals of the markets that Abcam 
serves remain the same. The inexorable 
rise in mankind’s desire for knowledge 
about how cells function and how they 
go wrong in disease will continue to drive 
demand for high quality validated research 
tools. Abcam remains perfectly positioned 
to be able to meet that demand. 
Abcam continues to focus on geographic 
expansion in markets where funding is 
increasing, such as China, and on selling a 
greater breadth of products required by our 
customers to carry out their protein research. 
The commitment and excellence of 
Abcam’s staff continually impresses 
and delights me. Again I would like to 
warmly thank all our staff worldwide for 
their commitment to Abcam’s success 
both now and into the future.
Finally, we must never forget that our 
customers’ continuous drive for discovery, 
and Abcam’s enabling products, services 
and technologies that help facilitate that 
discovery, remain central to our past and 
future success. Our staff, together with our 
products, services and technologies, are 
central to achieving our goal of enabling 
our customers to discover more.
Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
12 September 2011
