 08 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“THE SPLENDA
®
SUCRALOSE BUSINESS
AGAIN PERFORMED STRONGLY AND 
WE SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED THE
CONTRIBUTION FROM OUR CORE VALUE
ADDED INGREDIENT PRODUCTS”
Overview
Tate & Lyle performed well in the 2006
financial year and achieved good profit
growth despite a challenging environment.
The SPLENDA
®
Sucralose business again
performed strongly, benefiting during the
year from the first stage of expansion to the
McIntosh, Alabama facility. We significantly
increased the contribution from our core
value added ingredient products and it was
also pleasing to note the margin gains we
achieved on commodity products in the
2006 calendar year’s sweetener pricing
round in the US.
A number of factors have partially offset
these positive performances. Firstly, higher
global energy prices added £30 million 
to our energy costs and also increased
ingredient and transport costs. Secondly,
profits were depressed by lower margins 
for sugar and related products in the EU 
and higher export licence costs at Sugars,
Europe. These arose as a consequence of
oversupply as the market begins to adapt 
to the changes resulting from reform of the
EU sugar regime. 
All our expansion projects, which will
promote longer term value added growth
across the business, are progressing
satisfactorily. The capital projects to double
the McIntosh, Alabama sucralose production
capacity acquired under the realignment 
of the SPLENDA
®
Sucralose activities have
been completed and commissioning is
under way. The new Singapore sucralose
facility and our new joint venture plant with
DuPont to produce Bio-PDO
TM
from
renewable resources should both begin to
come on stream in our financial year ending
31 March 2007. The project to increase
value added capacity in our Sagamore
facility in the US is also scheduled to be
completed in that year, and the Loudon
expansion is due for completion in the year
to 31 March 2008. 
In line with our value added growth strategy,
we completed two bolt-on acquisitions
during the year. The acquisition of the Italian
based Cesalpinia Foods was completed in
December 2005 and that of US speciality
food ingredients company Continental
Custom Ingredients Inc. was completed in
January 2006 for a combined consideration
of £72 million. Both businesses have been
customers of Tate & Lyle for a number of
08 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006   09
years and together we will be more
responsive in developing distinctive and
innovative solutions for the food industry. 
The acquisitions made profits in line with 
our expectations in the final months of the
financial year. These acquisitions represent 
a further step in broadening our product mix,
technology and customer base in rapidly
expanding areas such as blends and
fortification and may be supplemented by
the acquisition of further bolt-on businesses. 
In April 2006, just after the year-end, 
we completed the acquisition of the assets 
and intellectual property of Hycail BV and 
its Finnish subsidiary Hycail Finland OY. 
Hycail develops polylactic acid polymers 
and resins, a biodegradable plastic made
from renewable resources. This modest 
£2 million initial investment strengthens 
Tate & Lyle’s knowledge and resources 
in the field of industrial ingredients from
renewable resources.
This investment supplements our internal
research and development capability, 
which we consider a key differentiator 
for Tate & Lyle. We continue to invest
substantially in this area, increasing
headcount by 45 and cost by 5% in the 
year to 31 March 2006. To improve oversight
and give an external perspective, we have
established a Research Advisory Group,
chaired by Dr Barry Zoumas, one of our
non-executive directors. The Committee
comprises external experts and senior 
Tate & Lyle people. It will review our research
and development portfolio and provide
insight into how leading edge technologies
could apply to future developments.
We have also established Tate & Lyle
Ventures, our fund to invest in new products
and technologies that are closely aligned
with our strategy. It will complement our
existing research and development and
partnering activities and will be formally
launched once the necessary regulatory
approvals have been obtained.
We are consolidating the global marketing 
of Tate & Lyle’s current range of value added
and functional food ingredients into one
team, our new Global Food Ingredients
Group. This team will take Tate & Lyle 
into new ingredient areas and growth
opportunities. This change to the structure
and leadership of Tate & Lyle’s businesses
reflects the acceleration of the Group’s
growth strategy and our continuing
commitment to delivering excellence 
in customer service. 
Under the new European sugar regime
proposals our Greek corn processing plant
(part of Food & Industrial Ingredients,
Europe) is not viable. We therefore propose
to close the plant, which has an isoglucose
quota of 13,000 tonnes, by September
2008. We have entered an information 
and consultation phase with employees.
Proceeds from the surrender of quota will
mitigate the cash closure costs. 
As part of our commitment to vigorously
defend and enforce our sucralose patents,
we announced on 23 May 2006 that we 
had filed suit in the US District Federal Court 
for Central Illinois against a Chinese
manufacturing group based in Hebei
province as well as six importers of
sucralose into the US. The proceedings
allege infringement of patented sucralose
manufacturing technology in respect of
sucralose manufactured in China. 
Group profit before tax, exceptional items
and amortisation of £295 million was a 
16% improvement on the prior year (2005 –
£254 million). Group profit before tax after
exceptional items and amortisation was 
£42 million (2005 – £205 million).
Net debt has risen from £471 million 
at 31 March 2005 to £858 million at 
31 March 2006. 
Group Targets
Despite the growth in profits outlined above
this has, in many ways, been a year of
transition as we invest for growth.
■ We have increased the contribution of
total value added products to Group
profit before interest, exceptional items
and amortisation from £132 million to
£161 million. The changes to the EU
sugar regime will, however, reduce the
contribution from the commodity, quota
constrained and consumer branded
segments over the next few years. 
This makes our current target of a
contribution from total value added 
of 60% of Group profit before interest,
exceptional items and amortisation
achievable for the wrong reasons. 
Given uncertainty over how the EU sugar
regime will impact the Group over the
next few years, and the number of capital
projects that are coming to fruition, we
have decided to replace this target with
a new one-year target for profit before
interest, exceptional items and
amortisation from total value added
products to increase by 30% in the 
2007 financial year.
■ The net debt to EBITDA (earnings before
exceptional items and before interest, 
tax, depreciation and total amortisation)
multiple has increased from 1.2 times 
to 1.9 times. Our maximum target for 
net debt to EBITDA is 2.5 times.
■ Interest cover was 9.9 times. This
remains robust, underpinning our
investments in future growth and our
progressive dividend policy. Our minimum
target remains 5.0 times.
■ All businesses have a target on both
economic and environmental grounds 
to reduce energy consumption on a per
unit basis by 3% per year. It is pleasing 
to report that in the 2005 calendar year 
the Group beat this target, achieving 
a reduction of 3.6%. At prevailing energy
prices, we would expect energy costs 
to increase by £45 million in the year
ending 31 March 2007 and the total
energy bill for the year (after taking into
account increased production) to exceed
£250 million. We have in place contracts
and hedges that cover around two-thirds
of our estimated energy usage for the
2007 financial year.
Segmental Reporting
This is the first full year under our new basis
for segmental financial reporting. This analysis
is presented along product lines, rather than
the geographic analysis previously reported,
and we believe that this will give a more
meaningful analysis of our activities.
Performance of Main Businesses
Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas
produced a very strong performance, 
with all of its major operations showing 
net gains despite higher energy and other
manufacturing costs. Sales were up 9% 
at £1,127 million and profit before interest,
exceptional items and amortisation of 
£125 million was up 30%.  10 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006
Food and industrial products improved 
due to higher volumes and increased gross
margins, increasing the contribution from
core value added products. Sweetener
volumes were higher. Overall sweetener
gross margins improved following the 2006
calendar year sweetener pricing round. 
Net corn costs were lower. Ethanol benefited
from increased margins due to higher
gasoline prices and benign corn costs. 
The recovery of the citric acid product line
continued with increased profitability,
although this was constrained by higher
input costs. Tate & Lyle Custom Ingredients
(the former Continental Custom Ingredients
Inc. business acquired in January 2006)
made a modest profit in the final months 
of the financial year, in line with our
expectations. 
All major capital expansion projects are 
on schedule. Construction continues to
progress satisfactorily at the Bio-PDO
TM
plant in Loudon, Tennessee, and also at
Loudon and Sagamore where expansion of
the value added food ingredient and ethanol
facilities is taking place. The Bio-PDO
TM
facility is expected to commence
commissioning during the middle of the
2006 calendar year.
At Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe
sales were down 6% at £719 million with
higher volumes offset by lower prices
reflecting the calendar 2005 pricing round.
Profit before interest, exceptional items and
amortisation was up 5% at £46 million.
Selling prices for isoglucose have been
squeezed due to an oversupply of sugar in
the market and impending changes to the
EU sugar regime. Favourable raw material
costs, and improved selling prices for value
added and most other products in the 2006
calendar year pricing round, partially
mitigated the impact of higher energy costs
and lower isoglucose prices. Tate & Lyle
Cesalpinia (the former Cesalpinia Foods
business acquired in December 2005),
performed in line with our expectations and
made a small profit in the last quarter of the
financial year. 
In response to oversupply in the market, 
the EU has withdrawn 2.5 million tonnes 
of quota from the sugar year ending in
September 2007. Whilst we support this
action as an appropriate measure to correct
the balance of supply and demand, it will
reduce isoglucose volumes. However, one 
of the provisions of the reform is the granting
of an additional isoglucose quota of almost
20%, effective from October 2006. This will
partially offset the lower volume resulting
from the withdrawal.
SPLENDA
®
Sucralose has continued to
enjoy buoyant demand across all major
food, beverage and pharmaceutical
categories and performed strongly with 
sales of £142 million, up 23%. Profit before
interest, exceptional items and amortisation
of £68 million was 48% higher despite 
higher manufacturing costs (mainly due to
increased energy and ingredient costs and
expansion related operational constraints),
and start-up costs of £5 million (2005 –
transitional costs £3 million). 
The first McIntosh, Alabama plant expansion
has now been commissioned. The second
phase of the expansion is also mechanically
complete and will be fully commissioned by
the middle of the 2006 calendar year. These
two expansions will result in a doubling of
the McIntosh capacity compared to the
capacity of the plant when we acquired it 
in April 2004. With this increased production
capacity we will have additional product
available to build the customer base and
SPLENDA
®
Sucralose brand. 
In 2004, when we decided to more than
triple the SPLENDA
®
Sucralose capacity 
we acquired under the business realignment
with McNeil Nutritionals, we took into
account our customers’ views of potential
demand. With the first expansion to the
McIntosh facility completed and the second
expansion due to come on stream, we are
building up production and accelerating our
work with customers on innovation and
reformulation. Construction of the new
Singapore facility is on schedule to be
completed by January 2007 , and has been
designed with the potential for capacity to
be expanded if necessary. Based on our
ongoing discussions with our customers
about their future plans, we remain confident
of our ability to meet market growth in the
foreseeable future.
Sugars, Americas & Asia sales were up 
15% to £273 million and profit before
interest, exceptional items and amortisation
was up 35% to £27 million. Our sugar
operation in Canada has performed as
expected despite the effect of increased
imports and higher energy prices. The
results benefited from a mark-to-market gain
on raw sugar inventory of £7 million due to
the higher prevailing world sugar price. Our
sugar business in Vietnam achieved slightly
higher profits as higher selling prices more
than offset lower production due to a
drought. Results at Occidente in Mexico
were satisfactory, although lower than the
previous year due to a change in sales mix
with higher export and lower domestic sales.
At Sugars, Europe sales were up 23% 
at £1,459 million but profit before interest,
exceptional items and amortisation of 
£62 million was down 14%. Profitability 
in our EU sugar refining business has 
been substantially reduced, impacted by
oversupply in the EU market coupled with
the expected higher cost of export licences
and higher energy costs. Both London and
Lisbon refineries reported lower results than
the prior period. The impact on the Group
has been partially mitigated by a strong
performance from sugar trading, achieving
an increase in profit before interest,
exceptional items and amortisation of 
£13 million in what has been a volatile sugar
market. This was also the main cause of the
increase in sales of the division. Sugar
trading has enjoyed two years of well above
average profits. We believe that it is likely to
achieve a lower contribution in the 2007
financial year. The Eastern Sugar joint
venture business continues to improve,
although the quota reduction outlined above
will also impact this business in the 2007
financial year. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
“All our expansion projects which will promote
longer term value added growth across the
business are progressing satisfactorily” Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006   11
European Sugar Regime
The EU Commission published a press
release on 24 November 2005 outlining the
final proposals for the reform of the EU sugar
industry. Tate & Lyle fully understands the
need for reform of the EU sugar regime. 
We welcome the proposals, and in particular
the action by the Commission to address
the imbalance of the impact on the cane
refining sector (contained in earlier proposals)
through the granting of transitional aid, and
the extended period of stability until the end
of September 2015, contained therein.
Tate & Lyle published its estimates of the
impact on the Group on 25 November 2005.
These estimates excluded other factors
which impact operating results such as the
effect of market forces during the transition
period to the new sugar regime and higher
energy prices. Since then our European
businesses have been affected by
oversupply of sugar within the EU with a
consequent effect on sugar pricing premia.
This has reduced the profitability of those
businesses in the year to 31 March 2006
and is expected to depress margins for
sugar and related products further in the
year to 31 March 2007.
As mentioned above, the EU has announced
the withdrawal of 2.5 million tonnes of quota
for the sugar year ending in September
2007. This should have a beneficial impact
on pricing for sugar and related products but
the extent cannot be evaluated at this time.
Future quota withdrawals or cuts by the
Commission cannot be discounted. The
need for these will depend on supply and
demand which will be influenced by a
number of factors, in particular the amount
of quota surrendered by manufacturers.
As advised in our announcements of 
25 November 2005 and 29 March 2006,
one consequence of the EU sugar regime
reform has been a review of the carrying
value of our European assets affected by 
the reform. This is the principal element of
the total exceptional impairment charge of
£272 million, the details of which are set out
in the Operating and Financial Review. We
propose to close our Greek corn processing
plant, which is part of Food & Industrial
Ingredients, Europe, by September 2008.
The final detailed legislation resulting from
reform of the EU sugar regime may be
concluded only just before the start of the
new regime on 1 July 2006. Although these
implementing regulations are not expected
to materially alter the key elements of the
new regime, they will set the rules for the
day-to-day running of the EU sugar market.
As previously stated, we anticipate that 
the impact of the reform on the results 
of the Group will be at least offset by our
successful strategy to grow the total value
added component of our business, 
a consistent objective since 1999.
Safety
Tate & Lyle has no higher priority than safety,
which we believe is fundamental to running 
a successful business. Every year we
strengthen our commitment to ensure safe
and healthy conditions for our employees,
contractors and visitors. For the third
consecutive year, safety performance across
Tate & Lyle has improved in all categories,
reflecting our commitment to providing 
a safe workplace for all our employees.
Community Involvement
Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all
the communities in which we operate. Over
the years we have developed a Group-wide
community involvement policy that forms
one of the core components underpinning
our ethical behaviour. Our programme
involves building long-term relationships with
local partners to deliver a shared objective:
establishing strong, safe and healthy
communities by investing time and 
resources into projects that directly 
address local needs.
Our community partnerships are very well
supported by employees, many of whom
take part in programmes. Tate & Lyle’s
community involvement benefits our
employees by enhancing their own local
community, offering significant personal
development opportunities and making 
Tate & Lyle a company for which they are
proud to work. The community involvement
policy is reviewed annually by the Board. 
Conclusion
Tate & Lyle performed well in the 2006
financial year. We have seen continued
success in our strategy of growing the total
value added component of our business. 
This performance has been achieved despite
a challenging environment and we could not
have produced such a satisfactory outcome
without considerable effort and commitment
from our people around the world. I would
like to take this opportunity to thank them 
for their dedication and contribution.
Looking forward, management will 
be focused on three principal areas. 
Firstly, to progress expansion projects, under
way in the US and Asia, which will facilitate
continued value added growth across both
the food and industrial activities of the
business. These projects will involve
substantial commissioning time and cost 
in the 2007 financial year. They are central 
to our value added strategy and are
progressing satisfactorily. 
Secondly, we will continue to build the
SPLENDA
®
Sucralose customer base 
and brand. SPLENDA
®
Sucralose is a key
component in many of our new solution
sets, developed for the food and beverage
industry. We will also maintain our vigilance
in defending the brand and our intellectual
property. 
And thirdly, we are examining fundamental
options to mitigate the impact of the EU
sugar regime reform on the Group.
We continue to view Tate & Lyle’s future 
with confidence.
Iain Ferguson CBE
Chief Executive
24 May 2006
