 06 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“TATE & LYLE HAS HAD ANOTHER YEAR
OF STRONG PERFORMANCE DRIVEN
SUBSTANTIALLY BY OUR VALUE
ADDED BUSINESSES”
Results
Tate & Lyle has had another good year 
with profit before tax, exceptional items 
and amortisation of £295 million (2005 – 
£254 million) representing a 16%
improvement over the prior year. There 
was a positive exchange translation effect 
of £8 million. The improvement was driven
mainly by growth in SPLENDA
®
Sucralose
and strong performances from Food &
Industrial Ingredients, Americas and sugar
trading. The operating performance at the
end of the year was particularly good,
notably from Food & Industrial Ingredients,
Americas and sugar trading, with additional
benefit from mark-to-market adjustments
and certain one-off items.
Growth was delivered despite increased
energy costs across the business, the
adverse effect of the oversupply of sugar 
in the EU, and consequences arising 
from reform of the EU sugar regime. 
Sales increased to £3,720 million 
(2005 – £3,339 million). 
Diluted earnings per share before 
exceptional items and amortisation for 
the year to 31 March 2006 were up 11% 
at 41.7p (2005 – 37.4p). After exceptional
items and amortisation the diluted loss per
share was 6.3p (2005 – earnings of 30.6p).
The net charge for exceptional items before
tax totalled £248 million (2005 – £45 million).
In our announcement of 29 March 2006 
we stated that we would be reviewing the 
carrying value of our European assets 
affected by changes to the EU sugar regime.
The outcome of this review is the principal
element of the total impairment charge of
£272 million (the details of which, including
the effect on the future depreciation charge,
are set out in the Operating and Financial
Review). This has been partially offset by a
£24 million release of provisions relating to
US healthcare liabilities following changes 
to the funding of these costs announced 
by the US government.
Profit before tax after exceptional items 
and amortisation was £42 million (2005 –
£205 million). 
After an increase in investment and capital
expenditure to £344 million (including
significant expenditure on SPLENDA
®
Sucralose), and an increase of £58 million
06 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 Outlook
This has been another strong financial
performance from Tate & Lyle, driven
substantially by our value added businesses
and benefiting from a good operating
performance and certain one-off items 
at the end of the year. These results have
been achieved despite absorbing significantly
increased energy costs across the business.
In addition, our European operations were
adversely affected by an oversupply of sugar
in the EU market and other factors arising
from the reform of the EU sugar regime. 
In our announcement of 29 March 2006 
we stated that we would be reviewing the
carrying value of those of our European
assets affected by changes to the EU sugar
regime. The outcome of this review is the
principal element of the total impairment
charge of £272 million, the details of which
are set out in the Operating and Financial
Review. Fundamental options to mitigate 
the impact of the sugar regime are 
being examined.
Our strategy to grow the profit contribution
from value added products continues to 
be successful and we have set as our target 
for the current year an increase in profit
contribution of 30% from this activity. In part,
our target derives from the exciting prospect
of new value added product facilities
(including capacity for SPLENDA
®
Sucralose)
being completed and commissioned during
the year to 31 March 2007. This time last
year we said that we viewed the future with
confidence. The success of our value added
strategy makes it entirely appropriate to
repeat that message.
Sir David Lees
Chairman
24 May 2006
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006   07
reflecting the adoption of IAS39 on 1 April
2005, net debt increased by £387 million to
£858 million (2005 – £471 million). Interest
cover was 9.9 times (2005 – 11.6 times).
Dividend
In line with its stated dividend policy, the
Board proposes an increase of 0.6p (3.1%)
in the total dividend for the year to 20.0p.
This is covered 2.1 times by earnings 
before exceptional items and amortisation. 
The proposed final dividend of 14.1p 
(2005 – 13.7p) will be due and payable 
on 27 July 2006 to all shareholders on 
the register at 30 June 2006.
Directors
As stated in last year’s Annual Report, 
Allen Yurko retired from the Board on 28 July
2005 and Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed
as a non-executive director from 1 May
2005. He has agreed to chair our newly
formed Research Advisory Group, of which
more details are set out in the Chief
Executive’s Review.
Carole Piwnica will be retiring as a non-
executive director at the Annual General
Meeting on 19 July 2006, having served 
on the Board for approaching ten years. 
The Board thanks her for her commitment 
to the Company and her considerable
contribution to its strategic development.
Robert Walker was appointed as a non-
executive director from 1 January 2006. 
He is currently Chairman of WH Smith
and brings to the Board an in-depth
knowledge of the food and beverage 
sector, having spent much of his earlier
career working for companies such as
Procter & Gamble and PepsiCo.
Corporate Social Responsibility
For Tate & Lyle, corporate social
responsibility means applying our four 
core values – safety, integrity, knowledge 
and innovation – to the way we run our
business. This involves continuous progress
in achieving the highest standards of safety;
considering the environmental impact of
every aspect of what we do; and treating our
employees, suppliers and the communities
in which we work as long-term partners. 
The Group continues to be a constituent 
of FTSE4Good, the UK corporate social
responsibility index. It is pleasing to report 
a third consecutive calendar year of
improvement in the Group Safety Index, this
year by 39.4% and that energy consumption
per unit of production showed a useful
reduction of 3.6%, beating our Group target
of 3% per annum.
Tate & Lyle’s UK occupational health
programme has also been acknowledged 
as a model of excellence by the UK National
Health Service. The Department of Health 
is interested in using our programme (which
includes health promotion activities, an
occupational health clinic, advice on healthy
eating and counselling services) as an
example of best practice to launch the
Department’s new initiative, Business
Communities of Health. 
Board Effectiveness
During the year, the Board once again
carried out a review of its effectiveness 
and that of its Committees led by myself.
The 2006 evaluation, based on one-to-one
interviews with the directors, the Company
Secretary and the Group Human Resources
Director, followed a similar process to the
one held in 2005 and, as in the previous
year, the 2006 evaluation concluded that 
the Board and its Committees were
operating effectively. Recommendations,
such as improvements to the format of
strategic papers provided to the Board and
the content of the agenda for the annual full
day strategy review, have been implemented.
A full session of the Board is planned for
July 2006 to consider other outputs of the
effectiveness review.
Strategy
Our strategy remains to increase the value
added component of our business, which
has grown substantially over recent years
both in absolute profit terms and as a
proportion of the Group’s total profit. 
Growth continues to be driven by a good
performance from our global food
ingredients business, through innovative
marketing, and the successful expansion 
of SPLENDA
®
Sucralose manufacturing
capacity and sales. 
This has in many respects been a year of
transition where one of our objectives has
been to invest for growth. We have made
significant progress towards the completion
of several key investments to facilitate 
that objective. 
