 4   Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011
We have no higher priority than safety. In light of the 
above, during the year we asked DuPont, recognised 
as an industry leader in safety, to undertake a review 
of safety across the Group. The results of this audit 
have catalysed an action plan which will help us 
achieve our long-term goal of world-class safety 
performance. My colleagues on the Board and I  
will continue to pay close attention to this.
Corporate responsibility and risk management
Following its 2010 effectiveness review, the Board 
established a Corporate Responsibility Committee 
to strengthen its oversight of safety, social, 
environmental and ethical matters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Providing strong, effective leadership within a sound 
framework of control is the Board’s primary duty 
and requires directors to have a deep understanding 
of the business. We began a programme of 
individual site visits by directors which has helped 
us enormously in our work this year to enhance risk 
management and determine an appropriate risk 
appetite for T ate & Lyle. It has also made the directors 
more visible to employees. This will be very important 
in the coming year as we continue to implement our 
strategy and intensify our focus on safety. 
Finally, I would like to thank all our employees who 
have worked immensely hard during a period of  
great change to deliver this year’s results. 
Sir Peter Gershon
Chairman
26 May 2011
Business review Chairman’s statement
Sir Peter Gershon
Chairman
Tate & Lyle has made progress  
during the year, delivering a good 
financial performance and having  
taken a number of important steps  
in line with our strategy to ‘focus,  
fix and grow’ the business.
Profit before tax, exceptional 
items and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets of £263 million 
represents growth of 34%  
(32% in constant currency). 
Overview
We have refocused the business through the sale 
of our EU Sugar Refining Operations, Molasses 
business and ethanol facility in Fort Dodge, Iowa, 
USA, and the reorganisation of the Group into 
two global operating divisions, Speciality Food 
Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, supported by 
the creation of the Innovation and Commercial 
Development group, a unit dedicated to driving 
long-term growth.
During the year, the Board approved two major 
strategic initiatives to support the transformation of 
the business. The first, the Commercial and Food 
Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA will transform 
our product development capability and the way 
we work with our customers; the second, the 
development of a single set of business processes 
supported by one global IT infrastructure and a 
global Shared Services Centre in Łód ´ z, Poland, will 
make the business more efficient and responsive. 
Financial performance
Profit before tax, exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 
£263 million represents growth of 34% (32%  
in constant currency) on the previous year, with 
Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients 
delivering an increase of 26% and 15% in adjusted 
operating profit respectively. 
Through a combination of continued tight financial 
discipline, strong cash generation and proceeds 
from disposals, net debt at the year end stood at 
£464 million, a 43% reduction on the previous  
year (2010 – £814 million).
I am also pleased to report that we have made 
progress reducing the amount of adverse 
exceptional items reported within these results.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a 5% increase in the 
final dividend to 16.9p, making a full-year dividend 
of 23.7p per share, up 3.5% on the prior year.  
The proposed increase in the dividend reflects  
the Board’s confidence in the business.
Safety
The Board deeply regrets the fatality that  
occurred at our joint-venture plant in Turkey in  
May 2010 as reported last year. Whilst our overall 
safety performance has continued to compare well 
against the industry we are very disappointed that 
our performance has deteriorated from last year.
