 16 TNS annual report 2002
The markets in which we operate
In order to put our 2002 results into context, it is important
to understand the operating environment. To do this, it is
helpful to split the market into its constituent parts. 
Syndicated business, such as consumer panels and television
audience measurement services, together with continuous
tracking contracts, maintained their growth. Media
Intelligence, however, was affected by the poor advertising
and public relations environment and, although our business
was flat, we believe that the market for these services
probably declined. On the customised ad hoc side, there
were regional variations but the market became weaker as
the year progressed and will not recover substantially until
we see some economic recovery. 
Growing fast in Asia Pacific
The Asia Pacific region still accounts for a relatively small
percentage of our turnover but the performance in 2002
illustrates our ability to push ahead in areas with the
greatest growth potential. Over the past few years, we have
been investing steadily in consumer panels in Asia and now
offer pan-regional data. There is further potential to build up
this business through the introduction of new products and
services, many of which will be modelled on those already
used by our European panels. 
We operate in 13 countries in the region but our largest
business is now in China, where the group has established a
strong and profitable position. The television audience
measurement service, operated by our joint venture,
monitors the viewing habits of more people than any other
service in the world. During 2002, we increased to 16 the
number of cities in which we run metered panels and we
have 85 diary panels. 
At the same time, our Media Intelligence and Consumer
Panel activities grew significantly, benefiting from the
transfer of technology and products from other parts of the
group. We are also introducing the TNS Sport monitoring
service into China, ahead of the Beijing Olympics. Our
concentration on one of the world’s fastest-growing
economies is a further example of how we are investing in
the future of the group.
Focus on key account management
An important development in the industry is the increased
emphasis on key account management. This has enabled us
to develop significant business with clients such as
Motorola, McDonald’s, AstraZeneca and Novartis. In each
case, the depth of our global coverage, sector expertise and
range of services have been important factors. 
The success of this approach is exemplified by our
appointment as IBM’s primary corporate research provider.
Under this agreement, IBM will outsource its corporate
headquarters market information needs to TNS. This
includes customer commitment and global brand research
covering over 85 countries and will use TNS branded
solutions. 
Responding to demand for increased analysis 
and understanding
A further change in the market information industry, 
which benefits TNS, is the growing demand from clients 
for increasingly sophisticated analysis and solutions-based
services. 
A recent contract win illustrates how we are able to meet
this demand. In early 2003, in France, we developed an
innovative system for advising clients on the optimum
media selection for all their consumer communications. 
This approach combines expertise from various parts of our
business and was instrumental in securing a major contract
from Renault Nissan.  
Chief Executive’s statement
The group’s advance over the past few years has been driven by a strategy that remains
appropriate for today’s markets. Our concentration on this strategy and our continued
investment into new developments should fuel our longer-term growth. www.tns-global.com 17
This demand for analytical solutions also applies to
television audience measurement (TAM), leading to the
success of InfoSysTV, the group’s integrated analysis
system, which is now in use in 12 countries. Following its
recent introduction into the UK, virtually all broadcasters,
including the BBC, are now using the system as their
primary analysis tool. We continue to invest in InfoSysTV
and new modules will be introduced during 2003. 
One planned adaptation is to enable the system to analyse
data from the Portable People Meter (PPM), the new
approach to audience measurement that we are marketing in
conjunction with its developer, Arbitron. TNS recently won
a contract with two Belgian broadcasting companies to
research both the listening and viewing habits of the Flemish
community. This is the first commercial implementation of
a PPM panel in the world, although we have been success-
fully using the technology within our TAM service in
Singapore for the past two years. 
The ability to monitor both television and radio exposure
with the same device opens up tremendous opportunities
for insight into audience behaviour. We are about to start an
extensive test of this system in Russia, where TNS already
operates a TAM service.
Looking ahead
In 2003, we expect our markets to progress along broadly
similar lines to the previous year. Syndicated panel and
continuous services should maintain steady growth, while
Media Intelligence and customised ad hoc are dependent on
the recovery in advertising/public relations and the
economic environment respectively. Given these factors, 
we do not expect the overall market to achieve growth above
the low single digit level. 
TNS will maintain its focus on initiatives that allow the
group to derive the maximum benefit from its global
network, sector spread and mix of continuous/syndicated
and customised activities, which we believe to be unique
within our industry. 
We will continue to invest in developments that position
the group at the forefront of the industry and that should
drive organic growth.  
We are targeting an operating margin in excess of 10 per cent
in 2003, as we benefit from the actions taken in 2002,
together with an ongoing focus on cost control and progress
in business mix. 
With the current political and economic uncertainty, it is
difficult to predict the group's outlook for the year as a
whole. January saw a steady start to the year, with total
committed orders ahead of 2002.
Mike Kirkham Chief Executive
