 Shareholder information
Business review Governance Financial statements
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011   5
The net finance expense from continuing 
operations decreased from £72 million to 
£58 million principally as a result of lower pension 
interest expense. Adjusted profit before tax was 
up 34% (32% in constant currency) to £263 million 
(2010 – £196 million) reflecting the strong operating 
performance and reduction in net interest charge. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased by 
36% (34% in constant currency) to 45.7p benefiting 
from improved operating performance and a lower 
effective tax rate of 18.5% (2010 – 20.8%).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exceptional items on continuing and
discontinued operations totalled a charge of 
£48 million (2010 – £276 million). Within continuing 
operations there was a net £10 million gain on the 
sale of the Fort Dodge facility and £15 million of 
costs associated with the business transformation 
programme. Within discontinued operations a  
loss of £55 million was booked on the disposal  
of the EU Sugar Refining Operations (EU Sugars), 
which remains subject to closing adjustments  
and adjudication as discussed in Note 35, and  
a gain of £12 million on the disposal of Molasses. 
Balance sheet
We continue to focus on managing our working 
capital closely resulting in our average quarterly 
cash conversion cycle falling from 45 days  
to 34 days.
The key performance indicators (KPIs) of our 
financial strength, the ratio of net debt to earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(EBITDA) and interest cover, remain well within our 
internal targets. At 31 March 2011, the net debt 
to EBITDA ratio was 1.1 times (2010 – 1.8 times), 
against our target of 2.0 times. Interest cover on 
total operations at 31 March 2011 was 6.9 times 
(2010 – 5.8 times), again ahead of our minimum 
target of 5.0 times.
Results for the continuing operations are adjusted
to exclude exceptional items and amortisation  
of acquired intangible assets. Except where 
specifically stated to the contrary, this commentary
relates only to the adjusted results for the 
continuing operations. A reconciliation of statutory 
and adjusted information is included at Note 43.
Overview of Group’s financial performance
Tate & Lyle performed well in the year achieving 
steady volume growth across a number of our 
markets, very strong returns from co-products  
and lower sucralose manufacturing costs.
Sales for the year were £2,720 million 
(2010 – £2,533 million), an increase of 7%  
(5% in constant currency) on the prior year.  
In Speciality Food Ingredients, sales increased 
by 2% (2% in constant currency) to £805 million 
(2010 – £788 million) with sales volumes up by 
7%. The rate of sales growth was impacted by 
reduced selling prices for SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose 
reflecting our strategy of securing long-term 
volume incentive contracts with our customers. 
Within Bulk Ingredients, sales increased by 
10% (7% in constant currency) to £1,915 million 
(2010 – £1,745 million). 
Adjusted operating profit increased by 20% 
(17% in constant currency) to £321 million 
(2010 – £268 million). In Speciality Food 
Ingredients, adjusted operating profit increased  
by 26% (25% in constant currency) to £206 million 
(2010 – £163 million), driven by increased sales 
volumes, operational leverage, improved product 
mix and lower SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose manufacturing 
costs. The effect of exchange translation was to 
increase adjusted operating profit by £2 million. 
In Bulk Ingredients, adjusted operating profit 
increased by 15% (11% in constant currency) to 
£157 million (2010 – £136 million), driven by volume 
growth, very strong returns from co-products and 
an improved performance from ethanol offset 
by lower margins in sweeteners and industrial 
starches. Higher corn prices, particularly in the 
second half of the year, resulted in an additional 
£16 million of co-product returns compared to the 
prior year. The effect of exchange translation was  
to increase adjusted operating profit by £5 million.
Central costs, which include head office, treasury 
and reinsurance activities, increased by £11 million 
to £42 million reflecting the costs associated with 
strengthening the Group’s senior management 
team, costs associated with our financing portfolio 
and one-off costs of £6 million in the first half 
relating to the review of the Group’s activities.
Javed Ahmed
Chief Executive
Business review Chief Executive’s review
Our objective remains to build a  
platform on which we can deliver  
steady and sustainable long term  
growth and value for shareholders.  
We remain on track to deliver on  
this objective.
In Speciality Food Ingredients, 
adjusted operating profit 
increased by 26% (25% in 
constant currency).  6   Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011
The Group’s balance sheet was strengthened 
significantly during the year. Net debt reduced  
by 43% to £464 million at 31 March 2011 
(31 March 2010 – £814 million). This improvement 
in net debt, which builds upon the considerable 
reduction achieved in the prior year, was driven 
by the disposals of EU Sugars, Molasses and 
Fort Dodge, resulting in a net cash inflow of 
£316 million, and the underlying cash generated  
by the business.
Return on capital employed increased from 
13.6% to 20.6% as a result of increased profits, 
a reduction in operating assets reflecting the 
writedown of Fort Dodge, the reduced average 
levels of working capital within the business  
and exchange rate effects.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a 5% increase in  
the final dividend to 16.9p (2010 – 16.1p) making  
a full year dividend of 23.7p (2010 – 22.9p) per 
share, up 3.5% on the prior year. Subject to 
shareholder approval, the proposed final dividend 
will be due and payable on 5 August 2011 to 
all shareholders on the Register of Members 
at 1 July 2011. In addition to the cash dividend 
option, shareholders will also be offered a Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) alternative. The DRIP 
replaces the scrip alternative that was previously 
available to shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety
We have no higher priority than safety and are 
committed to providing safe and healthy working 
conditions for all our employees, contractors and 
visitors. Whilst we are pleased that the safety 
performance at most of our locations improved 
in the 2010 calendar year, and that our safety 
performance continues to compare favourably 
against the industry, the Group’s overall safety 
performance (as detailed in the KPI table on pages 
8 and 9) deteriorated in 2010. Having set ourselves 
very high standards, we take any reduction in 
performance very seriously. A detailed plan has 
been put in place to drive an improvement in  
safety performance which our global safety  
teams, employees and contractors are working 
hard to embed across the Group.
Focus, fix, grow: update
As we set out in May 2010, Tate & Lyle’s  
strategy is to grow our Speciality Food Ingredients 
business supported by cash generated from Bulk 
Ingredients. To deliver on this strategy, and to 
reinvigorate Tate & Lyle, we have taken a number  
of steps during the year to ‘focus, fix and grow’  
the business.
Focus
We have disposed of a number of businesses  
and assets to ensure that our resources are  
focused on delivering our strategy and maximising 
returns to shareholders. During the year we sold 
EU Sugars, Molasses, Fort Dodge and, after the 
year-end, we announced the conditional sale of 
our Vietnam sugar interests. As a result of these 
disposals, Tate & Lyle is a more focused, less 
complex business with a reduced exposure  
to commodity markets.
Fix
The new operating model implemented on  
1 June 2010 based on two global business units, 
Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, 
supported by a global unit dedicated to driving 
growth, Innovation and Commercial Development, 
and shared support services is being embedded. 
This new operating model is simple and transparent 
and provides an efficient platform for future growth, 
both organically and through bolt-on acquisition. 
We have also taken steps to strengthen the 
customer-facing areas of our business – for 
example, the commercial organisations of the 
speciality and bulk businesses have been  
separated and are now fully focused on  
serving their different end markets. 
In May 2010, we announced two major two-year 
initiatives to transform our operational capabilities – 
firstly, to implement a common global IS/IT platform 
and secondly, to provide global support services 
through the use of shared service centres. After 
a detailed and thorough planning process, both 
initiatives were launched on 1 January 2011 and  
are making good progress. Following an evaluation 
of a number of different locations, the decision was 
made to locate our global Shared Service Centre 
in Łód ´ z, Poland. The new centre is expected to be 
operational by the end of 2011 with the various 
services to be provided migrated to the new centre 
in a phased process over a 12- to 15-month period. 
The new IS/IT platform will also be implemented via 
a phased process starting in the first half of 2012. 
Building a high-performance culture is a key part 
of the ‘fix’ phase. To help achieve this, during the 
year we put in place a new global performance 
management system, a new global sales incentive 
system and established common global metrics in 
areas such as working capital, customer service 
and quality. Ensuring we have the right skills and 
talent in the business is also very important. We 
are developing our high potential employees by 
providing them with more training and opportunities 
to learn, particularly with international assignments, 
and are also recruiting new staff both to fill skills 
gaps and to refresh our talent base. 
The new process for capital investment planning 
and implementation has now been fully embedded 
within the organisation. All new investments are 
now evaluated against clear strategic and financial 
criteria with greater scrutiny and clear execution 
milestones for approved investments.
Business review Chief Executive’s review
Our new operating model is 
simple and transparent and 
provides an efficient platform 
for future growth.  Shareholder information
Business review Governance Financial statements
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011   7
In our Bulk Ingredients division, we are looking  
at ways to diversify our business by leveraging our 
fermentation expertise and facilities to partner with 
businesses in the bio-based materials industry. 
In November 2010, we signed an agreement 
with Amyris under which Tate & Lyle will produce 
farnesene at its facilities in Decatur, Illinois, USA 
with the end product being distributed by Amyris. 
Then in March 2011, we signed an agreement 
with Genomatica under which we will dedicate a 
demonstration-scale production facility in Decatur 
for exclusive use by Genomatica for the scale-up 
of the Bio-BDO process.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Costs
The total costs associated with the delivery of 
the new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre 
are expected to be £37 million and the common 
IS/IT platform and global support services to be 
£57 million. Of the total amount of £94 million, 
£40 million is expected to be treated as exceptional 
costs within the income statement and £54 million 
as capital expenditure. During the financial year 
2011, £6 million of capital and £10 million of 
exceptional costs were incurred and we anticipate 
around £65 million of expenditure in relation to 
these projects during the year ending 31 March 
2012. The remaining expenditure relating to  
IS/IT and global shared services will be incurred 
in the year ending 31 March 2013. We expect the 
investment made in the common IS/IT platform  
and global support services to pay back over  
a period of three years.
Risk management
We have embedded a framework of risk 
management into the various programmes 
undertaking the initiatives to focus, fix and grow the 
business, to address the execution risk associated 
with them. This framework has been supplemented 
by internal and external risk and assurance 
activities over the life of the programmes.
Conclusion
We have taken a number of important steps during 
the year to deliver on our commitment to focus, 
fix and grow the business. The focus phase is now 
largely complete and the fix phase is progressing 
well, although there is still more work to do.  
Whilst the grow phase is beginning to yield some 
small but tangible benefits it is still early days.  
Our objective remains to build a platform on which 
we can deliver steady and sustainable long-term 
growth and value for shareholders. We remain  
on track to deliver on this objective. 
Javed Ahmed 
Chief Executive
26 May 2011
Grow
The Innovation and Commercial Development 
(ICD) group, which was formed on 1 June 2010, 
has made good progress during the year working 
closely with customers on product development 
and innovation initiatives. ICD is responsible for 
the innovation pipeline and, during the year, the 
processes used by ICD to manage and review the 
pipeline, and the way it launches new products, 
were completely overhauled. During the year we 
launched RESISTAMYL
™
 140, a bakery cream 
starch in Europe, and PROMITOR
™
 Soluble  
Corn Fiber 85 in the USA and Latin America.  
We also recently announced a five-year strategic 
partnership agreement with BioVittoria Ltd for the 
exclusive global marketing and distribution rights 
for BioVittoria’s monk fruit extract, marketed under 
the PUREFRUIT
™
 brand name. PUREFRUIT
™
 is the 
only fruit-based calorie-free sweetening ingredient 
available today and is a good addition to our 
sweetener and wellness portfolios. 
To enhance how we engage with our customers, 
and improve our access to them, in October 2010 
we announced that we would be establishing a 
new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre 
in Chicago, USA. The centre, which is due to 
be operational in early 2012, will be the global 
headquarters of ICD and will feature laboratories,  
a demonstration kitchen, sensory testing, and 
analytical and pilot plant facilities.
The underlying global consumer trends of  
health and wellness and convenience continue  
to underpin long-term growth in the speciality  
food ingredients market. Customer demand 
for both new and existing products that meet 
consumers’ needs in these key areas remains 
strong, particularly for products that can help 
address rising levels of diabetes and obesity in  
the developed and, increasingly, the developing 
world. Cost optimisation in the face of high and 
volatile commodity (e.g. sugar) prices is also 
driving demand. In light of the strong pipeline 
of demand for SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose both from 
existing and new customers, and having carried 
out a comprehensive review of the available 
options, we have decided to restart sucralose 
production at our mothballed facility in McIntosh, 
Alabama, USA. The restart of production, which  
we expect to take place during the first half of 
financial year 2013, reinforces our commitment  
to the sucralose business, provides further 
resilience in our supply chain and further 
strengthens our position as the leading global 
manufacturer and supplier of sucralose. 
We are also looking to build our business and 
capabilities in two areas where we see long-term 
growth – new customer segments and emerging 
markets. Dedicated resources have now been 
put in place in Europe and the USA to serve small 
and medium enterprise (SMEs) and private label 
customers. In emerging markets, we have changed 
our senior management team in Asia Pacific to 
provide fresh impetus to our efforts in that region. 
We are also building new application laboratories 
in Mexico and Brazil to add to our global network, 
and have strengthened our sales teams in both 
Latin America and China.
The grow phase is beginning 
to yield some small but 
tangible benefits. 
