 in the ﬁrst half of the year reduced demand 
for our bulk sweeteners and this, along with 
an increasingly competitive environment  
for SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose and lower returns 
from co-products in volatile corn markets  
in the US, offset a good performance  
in a number of areas, notably the  
emerging markets. 
Although we are now facing the headwind 
from lower SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose prices, 
the Board is conﬁdent that our strategy  
of becoming a leading global provider  
of speciality food ingredients will create 
long-term sustainable value for our 
shareholders. Accordingly, in the year 
ahead, we will continue to put in place  
the investment required to ensure the 
continued execution of our strategy and to 
build on the solid foundations laid over the 
last four years under Javed’s leadership.
Strategic progress
Realising our vision of becoming  
a leading global provider of speciality  
food ingredients and solutions requires  
us to explore new horizons and broaden 
the geographic reach of the business. 
While we continue to develop the business 
within what have historically been our core 
markets of North America and Europe,  
I am pleased to say we have made very 
good progress over the last few years 
building our speciality food ingredients 
business in both Asia and Latin America. 
During the year, the Board visited China 
and Singapore to see our Asia Paciﬁc 
operations and to gain a better 
understanding of the opportunities that 
exist in the region. Against a backdrop  
of rapid urbanisation, rising household 
income and changing tastes, the role of 
innovation and new product development 
is becoming increasingly important in  
these regions as food and beverage 
manufacturers look to respond to 
consumer demand. We were able to  
see ﬁrst-hand how our investment in new 
capabilities and customer-facing facilities  
is helping our customers meet their 
objectives and get their new products  
to market faster across the region. 
I am in no doubt that, alongside this 
investment, the strength of the Tate & Lyle 
brand and our reputation for delivering 
innovative food ingredients and solutions 
with the highest standards of quality, 
traceability and reliability have played  
an important part in building our presence 
in these markets.
The formation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter 
earlier in the year which combines  
Tate & Lyle’s global blending capabilities 
and recipe know-how with Howbetter’s 
strong local expertise and infrastructure, 
provides us with an excellent platform to 
accelerate the growth of our Food Systems 
business in China. The acquisition of 
Winway Biotechnology, a Chinese 
producer of polydextrose, which we expect 
to complete later in the year, will further 
enhance our presence in Asia and our 
offering in the fast-growing ﬁbre category. 
Work to lay the foundations for future 
long-term growth derived from new 
ingredients continues within our Innovation 
and Commercial Development group (ICD). 
While the contribution from recent launches 
is modest, we are encouraged by the 
pipeline of customer projects and the 
strength of our innovation pipeline which 
remains robust. Within ICD we have also 
made excellent progress building a world-
class marketing function which has begun 
work on a range of initiatives to promote 
our business and products globally.
Our investment in our global Commercial 
and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, 
USA is not only helping us bring new 
products identiﬁed by ICD to market faster, 
it is also helping to generate stronger,  
more collaborative relationships with  
our customers. Further information  
on this is on page 16.
Governance
As the business expands, my fellow 
directors and I are devoting more time  
to obtaining a better understanding of the 
markets in which we operate and how our 
business is evolving to meet customer 
needs. As well as individual non-executive 
directors’ site visits to our operations, and 
the Board visit to the Asia Paciﬁc region, 
members of the Audit Committee also 
visited our global Shared Service Centre  
in Łód´ z, Poland to review its work and 
future initiatives with the local team.
This year, we agreed that the annual review 
of Board effectiveness should be externally 
facilitated. We felt that given the importance 
of inclusive leadership and the changes  
to the Board in the previous ﬁnancial year 
there would be signiﬁcant beneﬁt in 
undertaking this review from a diversity and 
inclusion perspective. Further details on our 
visits and the effectiveness review are set 
out within the Governance section.
Corporate responsibility  
and risk management
We have continued to strengthen our 
internal control arrangements and external 
reporting on environmental, social and 
governance matters, including in relation  
to safety and business continuity 
management. Our approach to safety, 
business continuity and risk management 
focuses on preventive programmes, 
approaches and actions to reduce the  
risk of experiencing any incidents; and  
on advanced planning and preparedness  
for responding to actual events that may 
occur. Corporate responsibility matters are 
integrated into the Group’s enterprise-wide 
risk management and reporting process 
(see page 29).
During the year, we have engaged with 
customers and other key stakeholders to 
better understand the environmental, social 
and governance matters and potential risks 
that they see as particularly important.  
We have used this feedback to review how 
we report on corporate responsibility in this 
Annual Report and through other means 
including our corporate website.
Dividend
The Board recognises the importance  
of the dividend to shareholders and follows 
a progressive dividend policy with the aim 
of growing the dividend over time, taking 
into account the long-term earnings 
prospects of the business.
The Board is recommending a 5.3% 
increase in the ﬁnal dividend to 19.8p  
(2013 – 18.8p) per share making a full-year 
dividend of 27 .6p (2013 – 26.2p) per share, 
a 5.3% increase on the prior year. Subject 
to shareholder approval, the proposed ﬁnal 
dividend will be due and payable on  
1 August 2014 to all shareholders on the 
Register of Members at 27 June 2014.  
In addition to the cash dividend option, 
shareholders will continue to be offered  
a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) 
alternative.
Finally, I would like to acknowledge the hard 
work of all our employees in a challenging 
year. We continue to make good strategic 
progress in transforming Tate & Lyle and  
we have them to thank for that.
Sir Peter Gershon
Chairman
28 May 2014
Dividend per share (pence)
27 .6p
1
2012 2013 2014
24.9
26.2
27.6
1
1 This includes the proposed final dividend.
 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 05
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information  Marketplace for SFI and BI
Pages 10 and 11
Our business model 
Pages 12 and 13
Innovation and Commercial Development (ICD)
Speciality Food Ingredients (SFI)
SFI develops, produces and markets distinctive, high-quality 
ingredients for food and beverage customers across the world. By 
leveraging our manufacturing facilities, innovative technology and 
formulation expertise, we help create cost-effective, better tasting 
products for consumers.
SFI works closely with our Innovation and Commercial Development 
group to develop and commercialise new products.
Customers
 Large, multi-national food and beverage manufacturers
 Small and medium-sized food and beverage manufacturers
 Private label food and beverage manufacturers
Products
Sweeteners –  Speciality corn-based sweeteners 
including KRYSTAR
®
 Crystalline Fructose
 –  High-intensity sweeteners including 
SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose, PUREFRUIT
TM
  
Monk Fruit Extract and TASTEVA
®
  
Stevia Sweetener
Texturants – Speciality starches
 – Locust bean gum
Health and wellness – PROMITOR
®
 Soluble Corn Fiber 
 – STA-LITE
®
 Polydextrose
 – SODA-LO
®
 Salt Microspheres
 – PromOat
®
 Beta Glucan
Food Systems – Food stabiliser systems
 – Functional ingredient blends
Bulk Ingredients (BI)
BI manufactures and markets products including sweeteners, 
industrial starches, ethanol, acidulants and animal feed, for food and 
beverage, industrial and agricultural customers around the world.
BI also partners with bio-based materials companies seeking expertise 
to commercialise green chemistry fermentation. One such partnership 
is our joint venture with DuPont which manufactures Bio-PDO
®
,  
a bio-based ingredient used in the textile and plastics industries.
Customers
 Large, multi-national food and beverage manufacturers
 Paper and board producers
 Gasoline suppliers
 Textile manufacturers
 Animal feed compounders
Products
 Liquid sweeteners including corn syrup, dextrose and glucose
 Industrial starches
 Citric acid
 Bio-fuels
 Animal feed including corn gluten feed and corn gluten meal
Tate & Lyle operates through two global divisions: 
The Innovation and Commercial Development group supports our two divisions: 
Open 
innovation 
Global 
marketing 
Platform 
management
Research and 
development
Innovation and 
Commercial 
Development
A clear focus on three SFI platforms
Texturants Sweeteners Health and wellness
ICD is a key enabler of Tate & Lyle’s growth strategy. It brings together 
open innovation, R&D, global marketing and platform management into 
one global team, to provide an integrated approach towards developing 
and commercialising innovative new products and technologies.
While ICD supports both of Tate & Lyle’s global divisions, it concentrates 
particularly on growing SFI. As a result, ICD’s resources are predominantly 
focused on three broad platforms within the global speciality food 
ingredients market – sweeteners, texturants, and health and wellness.
We have identiﬁed ﬁve core scientiﬁc competencies as being key to 
delivering innovation in these three platforms: bio-chemistry; formulations 
science; separations science; particle design; and organic chemistry.
We have made investments in innovation and technical services facilities 
across the world to support these. 
Ideas are generated from both internal and external sources. Internally, 
these come from work done by our own scientists. Externally, we generate 
ideas from engagement with our customers and from our dedicated Open 
Innovation team which seeks to develop partnerships with universities, 
research institutions and start-ups specialising in food science and novel 
ingredients. We also invest in long-term external partnerships through our 
venture funds. 
All of our ideas and innovations are put forward for commercialisation via a 
deﬁned process which is designed to prioritise ideas, time and resources.
OUR OPERATIONS
06 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014
Strategic Report   Javed Ahmed
Full-year performance
During the year, we continued to make 
steady progress in executing our strategy. 
The delivery of proﬁt growth in starch-
based speciality ingredients and Food 
Systems, along with another year of  
strong growth in emerging markets,  
was offset by the impact of the cold spring  
in the US last year followed by the recent 
severe and prolonged winter, and an 
increasingly competitive market for 
SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose. 
Sales for the year were £3,147 million  
(2013 – £3,256 million), 3% lower than the 
prior year (3% in constant currency) with 
sales in Speciality Food Ingredients up 4% 
(4% in constant currency) to £983 million 
(2013 – £947 million) and 6% lower in Bulk 
Ingredients (6% in constant currency) at 
£2,164 million. Adjusted operating proﬁt 
was 2% lower (1% in constant currency)  
at £349 million (2013 – £356 million) with 
adjusted operating proﬁt in Speciality Food 
Ingredients in line with the prior year at 
£213 million (up 1% in constant currency) 
and 5% lower (4% in constant currency)  
in Bulk Ingredients at £172 million (2013 
– £182 million). Adjusted proﬁt before tax 
was 2% lower (ﬂat in constant currency),  
at £322 million (2013 – £327 million), and 
adjusted diluted earnings per share were 
2% lower (ﬂat in constant currency) at 55.7p 
(2013 – 56.6p). 
Financial management  
and balance sheet
Our average quarterly cash conversion cycle 
improved by three days to 39 days (2013 
– 42 days) largely driven by a decrease in 
working capital due to lower ﬁnished goods 
inventories and lower corn prices. 
The key performance indicators (KPIs)  
of our ﬁnancial strength, the ratio of net 
debt to earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
and interest cover, remain well within our 
internal thresholds. At 31 March 2014,  
the net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.8  
times (2013 – 1.0 times), against our internal 
threshold of 2.0 times and interest cover  
on total operations was 11.6 times  
(2013 – 11.1 times), again comfortably 
ahead of our minimum threshold of  
5.0 times.
Net debt of £353 million at 31 March  
2014 was lower than at the end of last  
year (2013 – £479 million), reﬂecting  
the reduction in working capital and a 
decrease in the value of dollar denominated 
debt as a result of the weakening of the  
US dollar against sterling. 
We continue to generate a good level of 
return on our assets with return on capital 
employed of 19.2% (2013 – 19.7%). 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Changes in constant currency are calculated by retranslating comparative period results at current 
period exchange rates.
Highlights
  Speciality Food Ingredients sales up 4% (up 4% in constant currency)  
at £983 million with adjusted operating proﬁt in line with the prior year  
(up 1% in constant currency) at £213 million:
 – Continued strong growth in Asia and Latin America
 – Acquisition of Biovelop, and in China, the formation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter 
and agreement to acquire Winway Biotechnology
  Bulk Ingredients adjusted operating proﬁt 5% lower (4% lower in constant 
currency) at £172 million due to soft beverage season and unusually cold  
and prolonged winter in the US
  Adjusted proﬁt before tax 2% lower (ﬂat in constant currency) at £322 million
  Balance sheet remains strong with reduction in net debt of £126 million  
to £353 million (2013 – £479 million)
  Final dividend of 19.8p proposed making a total dividend of 27.6p  
(2013 – 26.2p) up 5.3% on prior year
  Successful deployment of upgraded IS/IT platform across Europe with US  
and Singapore on track for the summer
  Board approval of capital investment of £100 million over the next two  
years in Speciality Food Ingredients to expand capacity for existing  
and pipeline products
 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 07
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 
