 22 TNS annual report and accounts 2003
Progress of integration
The merger of NFO with the TNS business is progressing well and to plan. With the
integration in Asia and the US largely completed in 2003, we are now bringing together
the two businesses in Europe, under the TNS brand. The integration is due to be
completed in 2004 and our focus is increasingly on realising the revenue opportunities
presented by the merger.
Cost synergies
As indicated in the group’s pre-close trading update issued in January, operating cost
synergies of approximately £2 million were achieved in 2003. We continue to believe
that operating cost synergies in 2004 should amount to at least £15 million, rising to
£20 million in 2005 on an annualised basis. Integration costs incurred in 2003
amounted to £9.0 million and we anticipate incurring further costs of approximately 
£5 million in the current year. The operating cost synergies are being achieved in a
number of areas, as discussed below.
Data collection  As part of our integration planning, we reviewed the data collection
capacity of the enlarged group and identified a number of opportunities. In several
countries in Europe, North America and Asia we have either closed call centres or are 
in the process of closing them. In some cases, the work has been moved to more 
cost-efficient facilities. We have also taken advantage of the increased levels of 
consumer research performed by the enlarged group to make more effective use of 
our call centre assets.
The reduction in call centres is also a reflection of the general industry trend towards
increased levels of interactive data collection. Industry experts believe that US online
spending in 2003 increased by 24 per cent over the previous year, with Europe up 15 per
cent from a lower base. We expect this trend to continue. In 2003, almost 70 per cent of
our US access panel’s turnover came from online data collection, up from 44 per cent in
2002 and just 10 per cent in 1999. Within the enlarged group we are successfully
migrating previously outsourced online projects on to our own access panel. 
Online research allows us to provide data and analysis more quickly and cost-effectively.
While this may impact individual contract values, it is leading to an increase in the
number of projects being commissioned by clients and typically delivers higher margins
than conventional customised projects.
Data processing  We are moving rapidly in the development of our data processing and
IT support facility in Hyderabad and will have more than doubled capacity by the middle
of this year. Initially, this unit will handle work primarily for our businesses in the UK
and US. We believe that there is considerable potential to migrate additional work to this
facility from elsewhere in the group. While we will make significant cost savings, we are
also of the view that we can achieve higher quality standards by pooling these activities. 
Combining offices and reducing corporate costs  As we have brought entities
together in Asia and North America, we have released office space. This process will
continue in Europe during 2004. The timing of these synergies varies case by case,
depending on the length of leases and other related issues. As part of the integration,
we are combining back office functions, such as finance, human resources and IT. 
In North America, we are moving to a shared services system and we are reviewing
Chief Executive’s statement
During 2003, TNS took a major step forward in achieving its
strategic goals, with the acquisition of NFO, one of the world’s
leading market information companies.  the sixth sense of business 23
similar opportunities for Northern and Southern Europe. The activities previously
undertaken by the NFO corporate offices in the US and Europe have been absorbed into
our existing corporate structure. We anticipate that the workforce for the combined
group will have declined by around 4 per cent at the end of 2004. In Europe, changes
are being made in consultation with Works Councils.
Revenue synergies
While the group has worked hard to achieve significant cost synergies, the main reason
for bringing NFO into the TNS group was to create a platform from which we can grow.
We believe the enlarged group has the geographic scale, together with the range and
depth of expertise, to take full advantage of the current developments in the market
information industry. These include the growing need for consistent information on a
global scale and the move by our clients to rationalise supplier relationships. Further-
more, the group is of a size that it can invest in the appropriate technological and
operational initiatives, such as extending the use of internet panels for data collection. 
The integration has significantly strengthened the expertise and skills available within
the group. Having brought together the best elements of the two companies’ Business
Solutions, we now have what we believe to be the strongest portfolio in our industry.
This provides support to our extensive expertise in the key marketing issues: market
segmentation, product development and brand performance, advertising and
communications evaluation, and stakeholder management. The combination of this
stronger portfolio with TNS sector expertise, as well as our increased geographic
coverage, has already resulted in a number of good contract wins.
Clients are increasingly looking to partner with a small number of suppliers to meet
their market information needs. In recognition of this trend, TNS is putting added
resource into its key account development, with these clients expected to show higher
revenue growth. 
Outlook for the enlarged group
The US market is showing signs of recovery, there are expectations of a modest upturn
in Europe and the positive environment in Asia Pacific is ongoing. The worldwide market
for market information is therefore expected to continue its gradual improvement
during 2004 and industry commentators anticipate it will grow by around 3-4 per cent.
We estimate that revenue for the enlarged group in 2003, on a pro forma basis, including
a full year of NFO under TNS accounting policies, would have been £954 million. With
respect to our performance in 2004, TNS expects to see continued growth coming out
of the US and Asia Pacific and gradual improvement in Europe. The group overall is
expected to achieve growth broadly in line with the market. The group’s confidence in
an improved performance in 2004 is supported by the order book, which is ahead of the
same time in 2003, as well as by the pick-up in activity seen towards the end of 2003.
Further improvement in margin performance is anticipated in 2004, as we benefit from
operating synergies relating to the integration of NFO and continue to improve margins
across our services. We remain committed to investing in the future of our business,
particularly in the development of our access panel operations. Bringing these factors
together, the group expects to show an improvement in operating margin, before
integration costs and goodwill, of between 50 – 100 basis points in 2004.
Looking beyond 2004, as we experience the full benefits of both cost and revenue
synergies, as well as the developments in which we are investing, we believe that TNS
will achieve turnover growth ahead of the market.
Mike Kirkham Chief Executive
The integration has
significantly strengthened
the expertise and skills
available within the group
