 TNS annual report 2005 4
David Lowden, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s statement 
In 2005, TNS achieved strong underlying revenue growth
across its syndicated services and in the custom businesses of
Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Middle
East & Africa. 
While the performance of our US custom business was disappointing, we saw a
return to growth in our UK custom business during the second half of the year. 
In total, the group delivered underlying revenue growth of 4.1 per cent for the year
and an increase of 15.7 per cent in adjusted earnings per share.
Our markets
Market information continues to be recognised as a growth industry. Growth in
custom research is being driven by demand from the emerging economies, with
China, India and Brazil leading the increase in business in their regions. As the
internet brings down the cost of data collection in the US, the volume of research
being commissioned there is rising. While the mature markets of Western Europe
are growing more slowly, Central and Eastern Europe continue to see an increase 
in demand. In all regions, there is rising demand from newer users of market
information, such as the Technology sector. Markets for syndicated services 
around the world are maintaining their steady growth.
Syndicated services
The group continues to invest in its syndicated services, where we have strong
market positions, clear competitive advantage and highly experienced management.
By expanding the size of our consumer panels under the Worldpanel brand and
introducing new technology in a number of markets, we have continued to increase
data granularity and strengthen our position. 
The group has extended and upgraded its Media Intelligence activities in Europe,
Asia and the US. In Europe, we have built on our strong position in the French 
news monitoring market with the successful integration of Presse+, which has
widened our client base and added to our international services. In Russia, 
we have added local advertising monitoring to our services. In the US, we have
reinforced our competitive position through the upgrade of our monitoring
technology and delivery platforms and expanded coverage through the
introduction of a number of new services.
Our TV and radio audience measurement (TRAM) business has had another very
successful year and has reinforced its position in the emerging markets, with new
contract wins in Asia and extension of services in China and Russia. The group is
meeting the challenge of measuring audiences in the digital broadcasting age, with
new services in Europe and the US. InfoSys, which provides detailed audience data
analysis, is now used by 6,000 people in 20 countries around the world. 
Custom business
TNS is the world’s largest custom research business and, in 2005, we achieved good
underlying revenue growth across most areas. The group has been investing in the
development of its managed access panels in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific. We
have reinforced our global account management and our sector expertise. We have
further developed our Areas of Expertise, which address all the core marketing
issues. For example, in the field of New Product Development, we are launching a the sixth sense of business
™
5
new business solution to provide accurate pre-launch sales and volume forecasts,
and we have recently introduced a new approach to Brand and Advertising research.
By combining all of these elements and applying them throughout our global
network, we believe we are gaining share across most of our custom business. In
2005, our businesses in Continental Europe performed very well, achieving under-
lying growth significantly ahead of the market. In the faster growing markets of Asia
Pacific, Latin America and Middle East & Africa we also had an excellent year.
After a difficult first half in the UK, when our custom operations were impacted by
a sharp downturn in the market, the business recovered in the second half. We are
building our presence in the non-consumer segments of the market, as well as
placing greater emphasis on business driven by our Areas of Expertise.
In the US, the market is growing, as clients recognise the value of information being
collected by use of internet access panels and also as market research spend
continues to increase in less traditional sectors. TNS is the market leader for custom
research in the US. We have the broadest range of sector expertise and product
offering, well-established major client relationships and a high quality managed
access panel. In a competitive environment, however, we are not yet delivering on
our potential. At the start of 2006, we reorganised the business to achieve improved
client focus. We believe that these changes should allow us to rebuild our position
during the year and lead to a longer-term recovery. 
Moving forward – evolution of strategy
Our market is changing and it is clear that the growth opportunities for TNS lie
within the areas of added value information and insight. It is here that clients,
particularly the major multi-nationals, are looking to spend a growing proportion 
of their market information budgets, as their needs become increasingly complex. 
We include among our clients most of the world’s major companies – from the largest
consumer packaged goods (CPG) groups, to the leading pharmaceutical companies,
from all the big automobile manufacturers, to the latest players in the fast-changing
technology market. In 2005, we had considerable success in expanding the scope of
the work we did with them. With one of the world’s largest CPG companies, for
example, we moved from traditional concept testing to strategic, value added
research programmes in the US and globally. We trebled the size of our business with
a well-established technology company, by combining our sixth sense of business
thinking with excellent project execution from an international team.
But there is more that we can do. TNS’ strategy is, therefore, based around
delivering the business insights and innovation our major clients seek. 
Our approach involves strengthening our service offering around four core
principles: client orientation; service excellence and cost efficiency; expertise and
innovation; and people development. This will be implemented through changes 
to our global and regional business sectors – in order to ensure that we are drawing
on the strength of our network to win the growing multi-country business. ➞ TNS annual report 2005 6
Our strategic goal
Our strategic goal is to 
be recognised as the 
global leader in delivering
value added information
and insights that help our
clients to make more
effective decisions the sixth sense of business
™
7
Our four core principles
Client 
orientation
Service excellence
and cost efﬁciency
Expertise and
innovation
People 
development TNS annual report 2005 8
Organisational changes
Under the leadership of Pedro Ros, as Managing Director – Global Clients and
Sectors in the custom business, we are putting greater emphasis on servicing our
major, multi-national clients through our expertise in their business sectors. 
We will continue to build our global partnership account teams and develop an
international project management group.
Our regional custom business will continue to drive growth in client relationships
in local markets. It will be organised around three regions: North America, Europe,
and Asia Pacific–Latin America–Middle East & Africa (ALM). To achieve service
excellence and cost efficiency, we are increasing focus on global operations, to
ensure that we deliver the quality of data collection and provision required by
clients, in the most cost-effective manner. 
TNS has been at the forefront of establishing global access panel coverage. 
Its flagship managed access panel in the US is now complemented by panels in
Europe’s six largest markets and across seven countries in Asia Pacific. At the start of
2006, we saw the recommissioning of several online tracking studies conducted on
the European panel. In Asia, enquiries for panel projects are already significantly
higher than last year, as we benefit from being ‘first to market’ with access panels
across the region. In response, the size and scope of the panels is being increased in
all markets. 
A newly-appointed Head of Global Access Panels will ensure we maximise this
coverage and deliver a consistently high quality of service. He will take best practice
across the group to produce research results faster, standardise and automate
processes to achieve cost reductions and ensure the integrity of research results.
Innovation has been a key driver in our syndicated services. It has also led to the
successful growth of our Areas of Expertise and TNSInfo, our web portal delivery
system that allows clients to store and organise all their marketing information in
one place on the internet. Its unique interactive features allow clients to set up alerts
when new information is added, analyse the data online and access this service from
wherever they are around the world. A first in the industry, TNSInfo has been a key
factor in a number of contract wins. During 2005, it was further developed.
Dashboard, a highly visual and user-friendly display of key performance indicators
is now used by a number of clients from right across the business. 
We were one of the first research companies in the US to recognise the potential of
multi-cultural marketing and to develop innovative programmes to deal with the
special issues related to reaching into Hispanic, African-American and other ethnic
markets. In 2005, a number of our major CPG clients used TNS specialist expertise,
and the multi-cultural representation of our US access panel, to help them to
understand this growing market.
We are putting greater
emphasis on servicing
our major, multi-
national clients through
our expertise in their
business sectors.
Chief Executive’s statement   the sixth sense of business
™
9
Clients continue to look to us for new thinking across the business and we have
scope to do more, based on our understanding of their needs and building on our
range of different research techniques. I have appointed a Head of Strategic
Development and Marketing, who will be responsible for a co-ordinated focus on
investment in new ideas and services across the custom and syndicated businesses,
which will help us deliver more innovative solutions to our clients. 
Outlook 
As clients’ own markets become increasingly competitive and fast-changing, we
expect that the demand for market information will continue to grow. In the major
consumer and media syndicated markets, this growth should remain steady,
although we will continue to expand these markets through the innovative
introduction of new products and services.  The regional pattern of market
development in custom research in 2006 is expected to be similar to 2005; 
the emerging markets will continue to see the fastest growth, the US market 
should remain fairly strong but growth in Western European markets will be at 
a slower pace.
Looking at TNS revenue in 2006, we anticipate steady growth in Europe, our 
largest region. While we may not be able to maintain the significant market out
performance achieved in Continental Europe in 2005, these businesses should
continue to see good growth and we expect an improvement year-on-year in the
UK. The US custom business should stabilise but it is too early in the year to predict
exactly when that business will return to growth. Our ALM operations should
continue to perform well.
By sector, while the consumer market remains challenging, we anticipate some
recovery through the year. Media, Business Services and Healthcare should grow
well. We expect good demand in Technology but the sector will be impacted by the
continued cut-backs in business from one of our major US clients.
Looking at the group overall, we would expect 2006 to represent another year of
progress in both underlying revenue and operating margin.
In the longer term, I am confident that our new strategic focus and organisational
structure will help drive us towards our goal of being recognised as market
information’s global leader in delivering value added information and insights that
help our clients make more effective business decisions.  
David Lowden 
Chief Executive
As clients’ own markets
become increasingly
competitive and 
fast-changing, we
expect that the demand
for market information
will continue to grow.  together Client orientation
■ Strong focus on global
clients and sectors
■ Partnership account
teams and international
project management  
■ Global approach
supported by strength 
of network
■ Added emphasis on sales
development
■ TNS Areas of Expertise
provide greater insights
clients demand
the sixth sense of business
™
11
Core principle
