 TNS annual report 2005 2
Chairman’s statement 
I am pleased to report that the group achieved good progress in
the past year. Adjusted profit before tax increased by 20.7% to
£97.8m and adjusted earnings per share were up 15.7% to 14.7p.
The dividend for the year rose 14.3% to 4.0p.
Donald Brydon, Chairman
It is less than two months since I was appointed Chairman of your company. I have
met a large number of people in the company in a short time, particularly at a very
positive and impressive senior management conference in Lisbon. Generally, it is
possible to detect quickly the mood in a company and I have to report that I have
found a strong heartbeat and very professional and energised management. 
What is immediately apparent is that TNS is a high quality company that has built a
unique position in a growing market. Its three main syndicated services –
Worldpanel, Media Intelligence and TV and Radio Audience Measurement – are all
leaders and innovators in their markets. TNS is the world’s largest custom research
company, with arguably the industry’s strongest custom network and broadest
range of products and services. 
What we must do now is ensure that the group achieves the full potential offered by
this market-leading position. To that end, David Lowden was appointed Chief
Executive in January. As Finance Director and then Chief Operating Officer, he has
helped shape the business he now leads. I look forward to working with him to take
the company to the next stage in its development.
Elsewhere in this report, David describes the new strategic goal for the group and
the four core principles that support it. He has restructured the organisation to
ensure that the group is in a position to implement successfully the strategy that has
been devised following consultation with clients and management. This strategy
responds to the changing demands of the market and is clearly focused on client
needs. His plans focus strongly on innovation and people development; TNS
already does these things well but now it will do them better and that will drive
success. The board is fully supportive of these moves, which represent a natural
evolution for the group. 
At the beginning of 2006, Tony Cowling reached the age of 70 and retired from his
position as Chairman. Tony was a founder member of the company in 1965 and
subsequently Chief Executive. His vision and drive were fundamental to the
creation of the TNS we see today. I am delighted that Tony has agreed to accept the
role of TNS President and that the group will still benefit from his considerable
knowledge around specific sectors of our business. 
Tony’s contribution has spread wider than just TNS. He has also been a central
figure in market research and many of the leading people in the industry owe him a
debt of gratitude for his support and encouragement and for the opportunities he
has given to them. This was recognised in January, when he was awarded the
Market Research Society Gold Medal, to celebrate his outstanding lifetime
achievement and contribution to market research. 
It is a privilege to succeed Tony as Chairman of TNS.
Also in January 2006, Mike Kirkham stood down as Chief Executive, after almost
five years in the role. Mike’s career with the group began in 1970, when he joined
AGB Research, and he was appointed to the Taylor Nelson AGB board in 1992.  the sixth sense of business
™
3
At AGB, Mike led the team that developed the PeopleMeter television audience
measurement system. Within the enlarged group, he was responsible for growing
international specialist sector activities before becoming Chief Executive in 2001.
Under his stewardship, TNS became the world’s second-largest market information
group. I am very pleased that Mike’s advice and experience continue to be available
to the company.
I am sure all shareholders would want me to thank both Tony and Mike for their
remarkable contribution to TNS.
I welcome the appointment of Pedro Ros to the board as Managing Director – Global
Clients and Services. Pedro has had a broad range of experience within TNS since
joining the group in 1985 and brings to the board significant international skills
within market research. His appointment is significant in emphasising the
importance of servicing our major multi-national clients through our expertise in
their business sectors. 
In December 2005, Rob Rowley stood down as a non-executive director and I thank
him for his valuable contribution. Paul Murray joined the board in May 2005 and
succeeded Rob as Senior Independent Director in August. 
The TNS board remains fully compliant with the principles of the Combined Code. 
There are many challenges and opportunities facing the industry: client
globalisation, new technologies, industry consolidation and media fragmentation
being perhaps the most obvious. How companies react to these challenges depends
on the quality of their people. We are indeed fortunate in the experience, talents and
enthusiasm of those who service our clients at all levels in the company. Everything
that we do is for the benefit of our clients and the stability and continuity of our
people is central to success. I would like to thank them, and everyone who works
within TNS, for their loyalty, creativity and sheer hard work.
In 2005, TNS achieved another year of steady underlying revenue growth and
significant improvement in earnings. In the areas of the business that have done less
well, action has been taken that should deliver improved performance. I am
confident that the company will continue to deliver the service our clients require
and, therefore, appropriate returns for our shareholders.
Donald Brydon
Chairman
