 Focused on creating value and delivering 
quality across the housing cycle
“ I am delighted to report that in 2014 
shareholders have continued to benefit  
from the results of our strategy.”
Kevin Beeston
Chairman
and additional surplus cash returns at the appropriate 
time in the cycle. More information on our dividend  
policy and strategy can be found on page 12.
We remain committed to paying a regular annual 
maintenance dividend. Reflecting both confidence in  
our performance and the resilience of the UK housing 
market, we have announced our intention to double  
this pay-out to 2% of net assets subject to shareholder 
approval. The 2014 final maintenance dividend of  
1.32 pence per share (2013: 0.47 pence per share), if 
approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), will be paid as a conventional cash dividend on 
20 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at close  
of business on 10 April 2015. Shareholders are once 
again being offered the opportunity to reinvest all of their 
maintenance dividend under the Dividend Re-Investment 
Plan (DRIP).
In February 2014, we set out the principles and the first 
stages of our cash return plan and returned £49.7 million 
in July 2014. Through 2014, we have continued to 
outperform our own expectations, both in terms of  
cash generated, and our forecast cash requirements. 
Reflecting this performance, at our half year results  
in July 2014, the additional cash return in 2015 was 
increased by £50 million to £250 million, equating to  
7.68 pence per ordinary share. Subject to shareholder 
approval, this will be paid on 3 July 2015 as a cash 
dividend to all shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 22 May 2015. Further details are set out in 
the Notice of Meeting on page 144. Following a change 
in the law, with effect from April 2015, companies are 
unable to offer shareholders a choice over the form of  
a cash return. Shareholders will however be offered the 
opportunity to reinvest all of their 2015 special dividend 
under the DRIP (your attention is drawn to an important 
message regarding the DRIP on page 152). The Board 
intends to keep the mechanics of how the Company 
will pay its special dividends under regular review. 
The way we do business
For Taylor Wimpey, the way in which we conduct 
ourselves both internally and externally matters.  
The Board is firmly of the view that strong values and 
culture are the cornerstone of our success and that they 
are key to protecting and enhancing our reputation, both 
internally and externally. We recognise that we have both 
the obligation and the opportunity to lead by example 
and that, whilst we inevitably do not get everything right, 
we continue to embrace these responsibilities and strive 
to improve in everything we do. 
During the year, we have had a particular focus on 
customer service, following a fall in our externally rated 
2014 performance and positioning the business for the future
It is very pleasing to note that, during the period since we set out our strategy  
in 2011, we have seen the transformation of Taylor Wimpey, underpinned by  
our clarity of focus and value driven business model. During this time, we have 
consistently outperformed the pace of improvement that we aspired to, whilst 
continuing to improve the quality of our business and positioning it to achieve  
our vision of becoming the UK’s leading residential developer for creating value 
and delivering quality. I am delighted to report to you that 2014 has not only been 
a further step in the journey to achieve this long term ambition but that we also 
delivered an excellent in-year performance, delivering 54% growth in operating 
profit*, converting a record 10,779 plots from the strategic land pipeline – more 
than any time in our history – and commencing an additional cash return policy  
to shareholders over and above our regular maintenance dividend. I set out  
more details on this below. In December 2014, we were also delighted to be 
re-admitted to the FTSE 100 Share Index. 
Returns to shareholders
In 2014, shareholders have continued to benefit from the results of our strategy 
with a 26% increase in 2014 total shareholder returns and 433% cumulative 
earnings per share growth in the last three years. Our dividend return is an 
inherent part of our strategy and the Board has set out a policy of making cash 
returns to shareholders through both regular maintenance dividend payments  
Chairman’s Statement
Taylor Wimpey plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
8 customer satisfaction score from 90% to 87% and a 
general belief that customers expect and deserve an 
enhanced level of service. Whilst an external score  
of 87% continues to be high by industry and historic 
standards, we are committed to improving further our 
service to our customers. We have embarked on several 
initiatives and introduced additional resourcing to improve 
what we do and how we do it for our customers – further 
detail is set out on page 38.
We have an implicit obligation to serve the local communities 
in which we operate and firmly believe that this responsibility 
grows with our success. In 2014, we invested £300 million 
in communities pursuant to planning obligations in England, 
Wales and Scotland (2013: £227 million) providing 
infrastructure, affordable housing and community  
facilities including schools, transport and play areas. 
More information about our efforts including local 
sponsorships and partnerships and our support of  
charity partners can be found on page 31 and within  
our Sustainability Report which will be available from  
27 March at www.taylorwimpey.co.uk/corporate/
sustainability 
Corporate Governance
We have a strong track record of good corporate 
governance which your Board will continue to strengthen, 
underpinned by a robust and effective governance 
framework and risk management structure. More 
information on what this means can be found within  
our Corporate Governance Report and the reports  
of the Board Committees (on pages 46 to 85). This is 
further enhanced by the policies and guidelines we have 
in place, setting standards concerning ethics, sound 
business practices and wider governance, which are 
regularly reviewed and can be found on our website. 
We value open and honest dialogue and work hard  
to maintain high levels of trust and transparency with  
all of our stakeholders. As your Chairman, I continue to 
proactively meet with a number of investors and industry 
representatives to answer their questions and to gain  
a better understanding of their policies and views on 
governance.
We also understand and support the importance of  
linking executive reward to the longer term objectives  
of T aylor Wimpey and, in turn, the longer term interests  
of shareholders and are very alert to the need for fair and 
proportionate remuneration arrangements. We have again 
consulted very constructively with our major shareholders 
and their representative bodies concerning both 2014 and 
2015 policy and practice. More information on this can  
be found in the Remuneration Committee Report on  
pages 66 to 85.
The Board has reviewed the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’) announced in September 
2014, and welcomes the new changes which will apply 
to our 2015 financial year. Consistent with past practice, 
the Board has already moved to comply with certain 
aspects of the Code.
2014 Board evaluation 
In accordance with the Code, the Board is required to 
undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of  
its own performance and that of its Committees and 
individual Directors. It is also a requirement that the 
evaluation should be externally facilitated at least once 
every three years. The evaluation is a very important part 
of the corporate governance framework and is taken very 
seriously by the Board, its Committees and also by each 
individual Director. In 2014, the evaluation was externally 
facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation via a very 
comprehensive process involving all Directors and  
others who work closely with the Board, both internal  
and external. I am pleased to report to you that this  
review confirmed that your Board is a well-functioning 
and effective board which serves the Company well and 
takes its duties and responsibilities very seriously. Naturally, 
there are areas for improvement and the Board has 
reviewed and will be acting upon the recommendations. 
A summary of the main findings from the evaluation are 
outlined on pages 50 to 51.
Our people
The Board is particularly proud of the level of eligible 
employee participation in the Company’ s all-employee 
share plans, namely Sharesave (37%) and SIP (27%).  
Each plan gives employees the opportunity of owning  
their own personal stake in T aylor Wimpey and our future 
success. We believe that this is important as it encourages 
a greater sense of alignment between our employees and 
our shareholders, together with a greater sense of pride 
and sense of ownership. Further, all Executive Directors 
hold shares significantly in excess of individual guidelines 
and similar individual guidelines have also been applied  
to senior management below Board level. More details  
of our share schemes can be found on pages 70 to 71.
We continue to progress our diversity and inclusivity 
initiatives as we recognise that there are still improvements 
to be made and that we are still in the early part of the 
overall journey. More detail on our initiatives is set out  
in the Corporate Governance section.
As I reflect on a very successful 2014, I would like to 
express my sincere thanks and appreciation to all 4,014 
Taylor Wimpey employees for their professionalism, hard 
work and dedication throughout 2014. I am confident 
that we have in place the strategy, people and framework 
to continue to create value and deliver quality for all our 
stakeholders in the years ahead.
KPI  Corporate Governance 
pages 46-51 
KPI  Board of Directors  
pages 44-45
Board diversity
● Male (6)
● Female (2)
75%
25%
Employee diversity
● Male
● Female
67%
33%
Senior Management diversity
● Male (6)
● Female (2)
75%
25%
www.taylorwimpey.co.uk
9
Directors’ Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 Strategic Report p2-43
