 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 5
Chief Executive’ s Review
Our presence in different markets
provides us with alternative growth
channels. These enable us to allocate
capital where we see the best
opportunities for returns and optimises
our ability to mitigate any short term
weakness in any particular market or 
sub market.
Housing
Our housing operations worldwide
reported a slight rise in proﬁt from
operations* to £456.0m (2004: 448.8m)
on turnover of £2,864.9m (2004:
£2,876.6m). During 2005 we sold a total
of 12,516 homes, compared to 13,092 
in 2004.
As expected, the UK market continued 
to be relatively subdued in 2005 after a
number of years of unusually strong
performance came to an end in the
second half of 2004. We sold 8,178
homes in the UK in 2005 (2004: 9,053).
We saw a fall in visitor numbers,
resulting from a lack of conﬁdence due 
to widespread forecasts of a house price
collapse that did not materialise. This fall
was partially offset by improvements in
our conversion rate of visitors into
customers. 
T aylor Woodrow has completed the
transformation from a group of diverse,
semi-autonomous companies into 
one focused housing business. 
In order to achieve continuing growth 
in shareholder value, we conduct our
business through a portfolio of 
selected housing markets – across 
the UK and within North America, 
Spain and Gibraltar.
Proﬁt from operations* was £233.4m
(2004: £301 .1m). The reduction in our UK
Housing operating margin from 15.6 per
cent in 2004 to 14.2 per cent in 2005
reﬂects the difﬁcult conditions that we
faced and the impact of reduced
volumes on overhead absorption not
withstanding year on year reduction in
overhead costs. 
The second half of 2005 saw the
potential for a return to a more favourable
environment and our order book of
£41 1m at the end of 2005 (2004: £407m)
sees us well-placed for 2006. 
During 2005 we have grown our UK
landbank of owned and controlled plots
to 34,985 (2004: 32,459) of which 41 per
cent is sourced from strategic land. Our
strategic landbank has also grown and
we now have 80,000 potential plots,
most of which are held under option.
Options enable us to purchase land at an
agreed discount to open market value
when planning is received, with no
obligation to buy if satisfactory planning
is not forthcoming. 
During 2005, 19 per cent of our home
completions were from strategic land
holdings. We continue to build the
Iain Napier, Chief Executive
* Throughout the Chief Executives and Operating Performance Reviews, proﬁt from operations and operating margins 
are before exceptional pension credits in 2004 and exclude joint ventures’ interest and tax (see note 3, page 57). Joint
venture revenue is used in the margin calculation (see note 3, page 57); all 2004 comparatives have been represented
under international ﬁnancial reporting standards.  Chief Executive’ s Review continued
6 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005
majority of our homes on brownﬁeld
land, with 68 per cent of completions in
2005 coming from this source.
In the challenging conditions experienced
in the UK housing market this year, we
have made good progress on strategy by
improving our forward sales position,
managing our cost base and providing for
future growth. During the year we have 
also delivered the £25m of synergies
identiﬁed at the time of the Wilson
Connolly transaction. We saw improved
reservation rates towards the end of
2005, albeit against low comparatives,
which has enabled us to enter 2006 
with an increased order book. We
continue to operate regional ofﬁces 
that are serviced by support functions
based at our central ofﬁce in Solihull, 
and have an organisational structure in 
place to support growth as market
conditions allow.
Our operations in North America had an
excellent year, beneﬁting from increased
investment and careful target marketing.
We saw another year of strong organic
growth, with proﬁt from operations*
growing by 56 per cent to £199.6m.
Return on capital employed rose again 
to 49.2 per cent (2004: 39.2 per cent). 
Our business in Phoenix, Arizona
continues to perform strongly, with over
1,000 home completions in 2005. Our
strategy of acquiring large land parcels
where we retain the premier plots for our
homebuilding business continues to
generate exceptional results. 
In California, we continue to beneﬁt from
our reputation as a luxury homebuilder.
Whilst at the same time we have now
successfully moved our product offerings
into the mid-market, where we offer
quality homes with high brand values 
at premium prices.
Our Florida business continues to
experience strong growth as we have
increased the scale of our homebuilding
operations. All of our low-rise operations
are well placed for continued growth,
having made promising land acquisitions
in 2005 and previous years. During the
year, we also completed several luxury
high-rise waterfront condominiums
which enhanced our proﬁts and returns.
The California, Arizona and Florida
markets all experienced strong price
growth in 2005, albeit partially offset by
increased construction costs. Sourcing
land in these markets remains
competitive, however we continue to
ﬁnd attractive opportunities to replenish
and grow our landbanks.
In recent years, the markets in T exas have
not seen the exuberance of other states
where we operate. However during the
fourth quarter of 2005 we experienced
increasing demand for our homes.
Our business in Ontario, Canada,
continues to provide excellent returns.
The greater T oronto area remains a supply
constrained market ensuring demand for
well located high quality developments.
2005 has been another year of growth
for our operations in Spain and Gibraltar.
Proﬁt from operations has grown by 
14 per cent to £23.0m. We continue 
to focus on the British second home
market in our three core regions of the
Balearic Islands, Alicante and Malaga,
where we offer a mix of apartments 
and townhouses. Our Los Arqueros
development, near Marbella, has recently
been declared 'Best Spain Development'
as one of ﬁve awards achieved at the
prestigious Bentley International 
Property Awards. In Gibraltar we focus 
on the premium end of the market, 
We have made good
progress on strategy 
by improving our 
forward sales position,
managing our cost 
base and providing for
future growth. Belcara, Southern California 6 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005
We will continue to invest all across our portfolio in the best
interests of our shareholders.
Above: Calders Green, Cheshire
8 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 9
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
As the Government seeks
to address the chronic
shortage of developable
land in the UK and 
pursue its sustainable
development agenda,
T aylor Woodrow plays an
active part in consultation
to ensure that practicalities
of implementation are
considered in Government
planning.
selling offplan well in advance of the start
of construction.
Construction and property
T aylor Woodrow Construction has also
had a successful year in terms of
industry recognition. As well as being
voted Contract Journal's 'Building
Contractor of the Y ear' for 2005, our work
on the new stand at The Oval received
praise and signiﬁcant media exposure 
as the Ashes cricket series drew to a 
nail-biting close. 
As previously announced, we completed
the sale of the K2 development at St.
Katharine’ s Dock in London on 1 July
2005. This substantially completes our
exit from property operations. We have,
however, retained the expertise required
to deliver future 'mixed use' schemes in
our housing business.
Prospects for 2006
The long term imbalance between
demand and supply for new housing,
added to continuing low UK interest
rates, continue to underpin the market.
However, margin pressures remain with
consented land in short supply and the
need for increased use of incentives in 
a tighter market. Larger builders are 
likely to fare better in this environment.
We are addressing these issues through
increasing the pull-through of our
strategic landbank, working with our
supplier base to drive out cost and
increasing the use of our rationalised
range of standard housetypes. 
A large amount of potential legislation is
pending to accompany the introduction
of new technical standards as the
Government seeks to address the
chronic shortage of developable land in
the UK and pursue its sustainable
development agenda. T aylor Woodrow
plays an active part in consultation to
ensure that practicalities of
implementation are considered in
Government planning. Whilst we broadly
welcome the thrust of the Government’ s
intent, we remain concerned about the
country’ s ability to deliver consented 
land without a wholesale overhaul of 
the current planning regime. We are
encouraged by the Government’ s
apparent determination to bring about
reform in this area.
We have experienced substantial levels
of house price inﬂation in parts of North
America over the last two years, which
has been reﬂected in our strong
performance. Although pricing strength
and demand moderated during the
fourth quarter of 2005, we remain
conﬁdent that we can successfully
deliver superior results in a more normal
market. Due to our record forward order
book and strong landbank, we anticipate
a successful 2006.
The market for second homes in Spain
continues to be attractive, with demand
remaining robust from British buyers. As
in the UK and North America, we have an
in-depth knowledge of the markets that
we operate in under an experienced and
capable team of local managers. 
Therefore, we will continue to invest all
across our portfolio in the best interests
of our shareholders. 
Iain Napier
Chief Executive
27 February 2006 Macintosh Village, Manchester
