 October 2003 following the acquisition
of Wilson Connolly. The company has
benefited from his experience in the
homebuilding industry and we wish
him a long and happy retirement.
Our people
The company’s success is dependent 
upon the expertise and enthusiasm 
of its team members. I would like to
take this opportunity to thank all of 
my colleagues throughout the Group 
for their enterprise and hard work over 
the year.
Thanks are also due to our customers,
trading partners, shareholders and
other stakeholders in our business for
the continuing support that they give 
to T aylor Woodrow.
Shareholder information
Full details of the facilities available to
shareholders can be found on pages 90
and 91 of this Report and Accounts and
at www.taylorwoodrow.com.
Norman Askew
Chairman
19 February 2007
We have delivered a robust performance in 2006,
with strong growth in North America and the UK
performing in line with expectations.
In 2006 we:
• Increased our home completions in the
UK and strengthened our order book;
• Grew home completions and profits
in North America, as a result of our
strategy of maximising forward sales
during the buoyant market conditions
of 2005;
• Achieved another good profit increase
from our businesses in Spain &Gibraltar;
• Increased equity shareholders’ 
funds per share by 7 .8 per cent 
to 364.7 pence; 
• Reduced our gearing to 18.6 per cent.
Growing dividends through the cycle
In line with our progressive dividend
policy, the Board recommends an
increase in the final dividend for 2006
to 9.75 pence per share from 8.9
pence in 2005. This, together with the
interim dividend of 5.0 pence paid on 
1 November 2006, makes a total
dividend for the year of 14.75 pence,
an increase of 10 per cent. 
Subject to confirmation at the Annual
General Meeting (AGM) on 2 May 2007 ,
the dividend will be paid on 2 July 2007
to shareholders on the register at close
of business on 25 May 2007 .
This dividend will be paid as a
conventional cash dividend but
Chairman’s Statement
02 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006
shareholders are once again being
offered the opportunity to reinvest some
or all of their dividend under the
Dividend Re-Investment Plan, details 
of which are contained in the 2007
AGM circular to shareholders.
Board changes
As previously announced, Iain Napier
retired from the Board on 31 December
2006. Following his arrival at Taylor
Woodrow in early 2002, Iain oversaw
our transition to a focused housebuilder,
with the acquisition of Wilson Connolly
and the disposal of our non-core
Investment and Commercial Property
portfolios. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to extend our sincere
thanks for his leadership during a
period of enormous change and wish
Iain every success in his new role 
as Chairman of Imperial Tobacco.
Ian Smith, joined the Board as Chief
Executive on 2 January 2007 , bringing
with him extensive international
experience, along with a strong
background in strategy, in the logistics
and healthcare sectors. I look forward
to working with Ian to deliver further
success for Taylor Woodrow.
Graeme McCallum retired from the
Board in January 2007 . He joined us in
Norman Askew, Chairman Manfield Grange, two miles from the centre of
Northampton, offers 79 new homes, ranging from one 
to five bedrooms, built in the grounds of the former
Manfield Grange Children’s Hospital. 
A listed building, this magnificent restoration provides
modern homes and luxury apartments with original 
and historical features complemented by the latest in
high-specification features and fittings.
Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 03
Above: Manfield Grange, Northampton, England Featuring a variety of four and five bedroom family homes,
River Heights is situated in the picturesque area of Steiner
Ranch, Texas, and is located within walking distance of the
town centre and is close to local schools.
04 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006
Above: River Heights, Steiner Ranch, Austin, Texas, USA
