 2 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005
In 2005 we:
• Achieved a robust performance, 
despite challenging conditions in 
the UK
• Continued to grow our housing 
operations in North America
• Increased our investment in our 
housing operations in Spain
• Substantially exited our property 
operations
• Reduced gearing to 23.7%
• Increased land in all markets
Maintaining growth in dividends
through the cycle
In line with our intention at the half year
to increase full-year dividends by 20 per
cent, the Board recommends an
increase in the ﬁnal dividend for 2005 to
8.9 pence from 8.1 pence in 2004. This,
together with the interim dividend of 4.5
pence paid on 1 November 2005, makes
a total dividend for the year of 13.4 pence,
an increase of 21 per cent. Subject to
conﬁrmation at the Annual General
Meeting on 3 May 2006, the dividend will
be paid on 3 July 2006 to shareholders
on the register at close of business on 
2 June 2006.
This dividend will be paid as a
conventional cash dividend but
shareholders are once again being offered
the opportunity to reinvest some or all 
of their dividend under the Dividend 
Re-Investment Plan, details of which 
are contained in a separate circular to
shareholders.
Board Changes
As previously announced, Denis Mac
Daid retired from the company and the
Board on 30 June 2005. On behalf of the
Board, I would like to extend our sincere
Chairman’ s Statement
2005 has shown the beneﬁts of our
strategy of operating in different
geographical and product markets and
allocating capital where we see the best
opportunities. The UK market has
continued to be subdued in 2005, although
the stability of prices assisted by a quarter
point interest rate cut in August
contributed to improved reservation rates
in the second half. Our housing business
in North America continued to beneﬁt
from strong markets, resulting in another
year of signiﬁcant organic growth. We
also achieved excellent results in Spain.
Norman Askew, Chairman
thanks for his exceptional contribution to
the Group over his 39 year career with us.
Our people
The performance that we have achieved
this year is a reﬂection of the skill and
enthusiasm of our team members. I
would like to take this opportunity to thank
all of my colleagues throughout the Group
for their hard work over the year.
As a business we are also dependent 
on our customers, trading partners, 
shareholders and our other stakeholders.
I would like to take this opportunity to
offer our thanks for all the support they
give us.
Shareholder information
Full details of the facilities available to
shareholders can be found on page 94
and on the company’ s website,
www.taylorwoodrow.com
Norman Askew
Chairman 
27 February 2006 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 3
Mortimer Hill, Berkshire 4 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005
Our presence in different markets provides us with
alternative growth channels.
Above: Bryant at Lichﬁeld
4 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005
