 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
 
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 11
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
MARKETS
We supply a wide range of essential utility services (Gas, Electricity, Landline, Broadband and Mobile) 
to both domestic and small business customers; these are all substantial markets and represent a vast 
opportunity for further organic growth.
The markets we operate in are dominated by a relatively small number of former monopoly suppliers and 
other owners of infrastructure assets, although in each there are also a number of independent suppliers 
carving out their own niches, generally based on price. 
BUSINESS MODEL
The Utility Warehouse has a fundamentally different business model to any other utility provider in the UK in 
three key respects:
•  firstly, we provide our services through the Utility Warehouse Discount Club, in which each customer 
becomes a Member;
•   secondly, we are the only fully integrated provider of both energy and communications services, with a 
single set of overheads that we can spread across our multiple revenue streams; and 
•  thirdly, we have a unique route to market, with an ‘army’ of over 44,000 part-time self-employed 
Partners. This means that instead of seeking to attract new Members through expensive advertising on 
television or in the national press, direct marketing, or price comparison sites, we instead benefit from 
genuine personal recommendations by both our Partners, and also by existing Members.
Partners can earn a small percentage of the monthly revenues generated by any Members gathered, either 
personally, or by someone in their team. On a similar basis, Members are directly rewarded with shopping 
vouchers when they introduce a new Member, and receive additional vouchers annually in December 
provided the Member(s) they have introduced are still using our services. 
We continue to invest heavily in our bespoke IT systems; these enable us to integrate all the services we 
supply into a single monthly bill, supported by just one set of central overheads (including all administrative 
and customer service functions). This highly efficient cost base is a key factor in enabling us to offer 
attractive pricing and a wide range of valuable benefits to our Members, a secure residual income to our 
Partners, and a growing dividend stream to shareholders.
Our business model requires us to provide exceptional customer service in order to convert our Members 
into fans, and ensure our Partners have the confidence to recommend us to their friends and family. We are 
extremely pleased with the further progress we have made this year towards achieving these goals, and in 
securing our position as the Nation’s most trusted utility provider.
STRATEGY
Our strategy is to build on the current strong levels of organic growth we are achieving, in order to 
progressively increase our share of the markets in which we operate.
