 Telecom Plus PLC  Report and Accounts 2014 6
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
I am delighted to report another successful year for the Company 
in which we have laid solid foundations for the next phase of our 
development, whilst continuing to deliver strong levels of organic growth 
across all the core services we provide.
In particular, the negotiation of a new energy supply agreement with 
Npower during the autumn, which secures our access to the wholesale 
energy markets on improved commercial terms for a guaranteed period 
of 20 years, has already enabled us to improve the competitiveness of our 
retail energy tariffs compared with those offered by the ‘Big 6’ suppliers.
The ongoing improvement in the quality of our customer base,  
combined with the growth in the number of services we are providing, 
mean that revenue and profitability for the year have again both  
reached record levels.
RESULTS OVERVIEW
Adjusted pre-tax profits increased by over 25% to £44.6m (2013: £35.6m) on revenue up by 9.5% to 
£658.8m (2013: £601.5m); adjusted earnings per share for the year rose by 26.8% to 50.6p (2013: 
39.9p).
The relatively modest rise in revenue is due to continued strong organic growth in the number of customers 
using our services and industry wide increases in energy and telephony prices last autumn, partially offset 
by much lower average energy consumption by domestic households during an exceptionally mild winter.
Adjusted pre-tax profits and earnings per share grew at a substantially faster rate than revenue, reflecting 
the steadily increasing size of our customer base (which was on average 18% higher than during the 
preceding year), and an initial contribution from the new energy supply arrangements with Npower.
We remain encouraged by the strong growth in the number of services we are providing, which reached 
1,907,160 (2013: 1,602,060) by the year end – a record increase of over 305,000 services during the 
year and almost 40% higher than the growth achieved during the previous year. One of the highlights 
within this strong performance has been a doubling in the proportion of new Members taking all five 
of our core services (Gas, Electricity, Home Phone, Mobile and Broadband) since the introduction of 
our new bundled service structure in November 2013. The average number of services taken by each 
residential Club Member has increased to 3.64 (2013: 3.54); these figures have been adjusted to reflect 
the auto-enrolment into the Club for the first time of around 60,000 residential customers (generally those 
who had moved into a property where we were already the incumbent energy supplier, and who have 
never consciously bought into our core multi-utility brand proposition), following our decision to abolish 
membership fees for all residential customers in the autumn. 
‘‘
” Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
 
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 7
In line with previous guidance, we are proposing a final dividend of 19p (2013: 18p), bringing the total 
for the year to 35p (2013: 31p); this represents an increase of almost 13% compared with last year, but 
on a significantly larger number of shares in issue following the equity fundraising in December 2013. We 
remain committed to a progressive dividend policy, although the rate of increase will be tempered over the 
next few years as we service and repay the £100m of debt we borrowed in the autumn to part-fund the 
transaction with Npower.
We were delighted to receive a number of further endorsements from Which? during the year recognising 
both the value we offer and the quality of service provided by our UK based customer service team, 
including being ranked first in their most recent survey of Fixed Telephony and Broadband suppliers, and 
being nominated in two categories at their 2014 Annual Awards. This is a reflection of the continuing 
focus and significant ongoing resources invested into delivering the best possible service to our Members, 
consistent with securing our position as the Nation’s most trusted utility supplier. 
Our share of the profits from Opus Energy Group Limited (“Opus”), in which we maintain a 20% stake, 
increased during the year to £4.7m (2013: £3.4m). This is an excellent result and reflects the continuing 
strong trading performance of the business.
NEW ENERGY SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS 
In December 2013 we completed a transformational deal with Npower, which secured our supply of 
wholesale energy for 20 years on improved commercial terms. This transaction involved us purchasing two 
of their subsidiaries, Gas Plus Supply Limited and Electricity Plus Supply Limited, for a total consideration 
of £218m (of which £21.5m is deferred for three years). The initial consideration was funded by a heavily 
oversubscribed equity fundraising which raised £130m before expenses, and new debt facilities provided 
by Barclays Bank.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
We restructured the way we present and sell our services during the autumn by introducing an attractive 
range of ‘Gold’ bundles (with enhanced benefits and lower pricing available for Members choosing to 
take all their utilities from us), making our unique multi-utility sales proposition simpler for new Members to 
understand and easier for our Partners to promote.
At the same time we reduced the number of energy tariffs we offer to comply with our new licence 
obligations, following Ofgem’s Retail Market Review, whilst taking advantage of the improved commercial 
terms of our new energy supply arrangements to make our retail prices even more competitive.
In March 2014, we launched a number of new tools designed to help our Partners promote our services 
and build their businesses more effectively. These included a new film (featuring Sir Terry Wogan) to help 
them explain our unique Discount Club and the benefits we offer to potential new Members, a simplified 
new online application process, an animated video to explain our part-time income opportunity, a new 
‘App’ which provides access in one place to all the main resources needed by our Partners, and an interest-
free hire purchase scheme to enable them to acquire a suitable Tablet to take best advantage of these new 
tools. Telecom Plus PLC  Report and Accounts 2014 8
We have continued to invest in providing customer service that is genuinely best in class; improving the 
clarity and transparency of the benefits we offer; and to consistently exceed our customers’ expectations. 
As a result, we have earned a higher level of trust amongst our customers than any other utility supplier, 
consistent endorsements from Which? in their regular surveys, and a Net Promoter Score that typically 
fluctuates between +40 and +45 on a monthly basis.
The steps we have taken over the last few years to improve our customer service and the quality of our 
customer base have led to a continuing progressive reduction in both our levels of churn and the proportion 
of Members who are delinquent (ie: have at least two outstanding bills). Our bad debt charge for the year 
remained at 1.5% of revenue (2013: 1.5%), even though a significant number of new Members joined 
during the year.
ROUTE TO MARKET
The number of new Partners joining the business during the year averaged around 1,300 per month (2013: 
1,002), taking the total number of registered Partners at the year end to a record high of over 44,000 
(2013: 39,848).
We believe the continuing high level of interest in joining our business is being driven by the combination 
of continuing pressure on household budgets, growing awareness of our brand, and the attractiveness of 
the secure part-time additional income opportunity we offer. We have enhanced the personal development 
programme we offer to help new Partners get started more quickly, promote our services more effectively, 
and build a growing long-term residual income. 
Confidence and morale amongst our partners is currently extremely high, following our recent annual sales 
conference in March which saw a record attendance. We are delighted with the positive reaction we have 
seen to the range of new tools we introduced, and the boost this has given to the strong momentum we 
were already seeing.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) encourages the Chairman to report personally on how 
the principles in the Code relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
As a Board we are responsible to the Company’s shareholders for delivering sustainable shareholder value 
over the long term through effective management and good governance. A key role of mine, as Executive 
Chairman, is to provide strong leadership to enable the Board to operate effectively. 
We believe that open and rigorous debate around key strategic issues and risks faced by the Company is 
important in achieving our objectives and the Company is fortunate to have non-executive directors with 
diverse and extensive business experience who actively contribute to these discussions. 
Further detail of the Company’s governance processes and compliance with the Code is set out in the 
Corporate Governance Statement. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED  Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
 
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2014 9
OUTLOOK
Recent Trading
A record number of Partners attended our annual sales conference in March, where we launched a range 
of new tools to help them build their businesses more effectively. These resulted in an immediate uplift in 
activity by our Partners, as announced in our trading update on 4 April 2014; we are delighted that this 
momentum continued throughout April, taking the total number of new Partners recruited since our sales 
conference to over 5,000.
The combination of record numbers of new Partners requiring training for the first time, and existing 
Partners wanting to repeat their training so they could fully understand how to take advantage of the new 
tools we had announced means we have provided 8,000 training places since late March to cope with the 
increased demand – this is around four times the number of places usually required. 
The backlog this created has now been cleared, and customer gathering activity is starting to show an 
improvement over what were already extremely healthy levels. If current trends continue, the number of 
services we provide will show further significant net growth over the course of the year, with our customer 
base increasing to around 600,000 by the end of the year.
Energy Prices
Within the energy sector as a whole, significant investment is needed over the next decade to renew and 
extend the distribution network, replace nuclear and coal-fired generating plant that is approaching the 
end of its useful life, roll out smart meters, and encourage the take up of energy efficiency and renewable 
energy programmes. The costs associated with delivering these initiatives are likely to put continued upward 
pressure on retail energy prices over the medium term, irrespective of any movements in wholesale energy 
commodity costs, although these may be partially offset by the shifting of certain social and environmental 
costs from consumer bills into general taxation.
Regulatory
The proposals set out in Ofgem’s Retail Market Review have now been implemented. These include a 
provision requiring each supplier to inform their customers (on each bill they receive) of any cheaper tariffs 
available, which is intended to make it more difficult for suppliers to cross-subsidise attractive acquisition 
tariffs by overcharging their legacy customer base. We anticipate benefitting from these new disclosure 
requirements, as customers receive this additional information on future bills from our competitors over the 
course of the next 12 months. In the meantime, our tariffs, bills and marketing are all fully compliant with 
the new licence conditions.
The forthcoming review by the Competition and Markets Authority is focussed on the ‘Big 6’ energy 
suppliers, and in particular whether their vertically integrated structure is acting against the public interest. 
As such, we do not expect it to have any adverse impact on us as the leading independent supplier. It 
should be noted that our wholesale energy supply arrangements with Npower are expected to largely 
insulate us against any margin pressure from the proposed 20-month price freeze likely to be included in 
the Labour Party manifesto for the forthcoming election. Telecom Plus PLC  Report and Accounts 2014 10
Prospects
Our Partners continue to demonstrate their ability to gather high quality new Members in substantial 
volumes, and the high proportion of new Members taking all five of our core services (now running at 
around 25%) is particularly encouraging.
Having reached the 500,000 customer milestone a few months ago, our focus now is on doubling this 
to one million customers and beyond over the medium term; this would represent a UK market share of 
less than 4%, and seems eminently achievable given our track record of consistently delivering 15%-
20% annual growth in the number of services we supply over the last few years. Current high levels of 
confidence amongst our existing Partners, and the record numbers of new Partners who have joined the 
business since our sales conference in March, give us confidence that these strong rates of organic growth 
are sustainable going forward.
The steadily improving quality of our customer base gives us good visibility over future revenues and 
margins on the various services we provide, and our adjusted pre-tax profits for the current year will show 
a significant increase over last year’s reported numbers, reflecting both the strong organic customer growth 
we have achieved over the last 12 months, combined with the financial benefits of the transaction with 
Npower we completed in December. 
We remain comfortable with market expectations for adjusted pre-tax profits for the current year of £63m, 
an increase of almost 50% on last year. As a result, shareholders can look forward to progressive growth 
in the level of our dividends, notwithstanding that we will be repaying £20m of debt over the course of the 
current year.
It only remains for me to thank my boardroom colleagues for their support and all our staff and Partners for 
their loyalty and hard work during the past year, and to wish each and every one of them success in the 
years to come.
Charles Wigoder
Executive Chairman
20 May 2014
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED 
