 chief executive’s review
“An excellent performance
in the first six months of
the year continued into
the second half despite
increasingly difficult market
conditions. Revenue has
grown by 54% to £160.4
million and profit before tax
is up 31% to £17.7 million.”
Andrew Wiseman
Chief Executive
This has been achieved as a result of the
strength of the Telford Homes brand,
incorporating realistic pricing and consistent
delivery, together with strong marketing
concepts which have allowed the Company to
continue selling homes to the investor market
at an early stage in the development process. 
Property sales and affordable housing
Contracts were exchanged on 523 open
market private homes, 502 affordable
homes and ten commercial units, making
a total of 1,035 properties in the year.
Included within this number are 230 homes
being constructed under joint ventures
where we recognise half of the revenue
and profit from the development. 
Where the market allows we maintain
our policy of de-risking the business by
contracting sales before much of the
development work on each site has taken
place. This secures future cash flows and has
led to extended bank finance on a number
of developments where the volume of sales
offsets the risk of increased gearing. In total
we had 2,051 properties under construction at
31st March 2008 of which 73% were secured
by contracts exchanged. 
The number of open market private homes
sold has increased by 9% this year with
the average selling price of those homes
increasing to £264,000 from £258,000.
Successful sales launches during the year
include the sale of all 161 open market
homes at Merchants’ Quarter on the British
Estate, E3; Stadthaus, N1 where all 19 open
market homes were sold in November 2007;
Vellum in Walthamstow where contracts
have been exchanged on 24 of 66 open
market homes and Kinetica, E8 where 25 of
41 have been secured. Vellum and Kinetica
were launched in the first few months of
2008 and reservations are still being taken
at these developments. Handovers of the
completed homes will take place in 2010,
by which time our investors anticipate that
the market will have recovered.
In contrast expected handover dates for the first
and second phases at Queen Mary’s Gate 
in South Woodford are all during 2008. 
This development has been the Company’s
09     annual report and accounts 2008
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:54  Page 10 business & financial review
annual report and accounts 2008     10
Queen Mary’s Gate,
South Woodford, E18
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:54  Page 11 Icona, Stratford, E15
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:54  Page 12 business & financial review
most significant sales outlet during the year
with properties largely for the owner-occupier
market. The first phase is 93% sold with 172
out of 184 open market homes secured and
over 150 legally completed and occupied.
The second phase is due to be completed
in November 2008 and contracts have been
exchanged on 18 of 93 open market
homes with a further one reserved. 
Whilst properties for the owner-occupier
market are less likely to sell at an early
stage, the rate of sale has significantly
slowed at Queen Mary’s Gate. Without
improvement in the current market
conditions we expect to be carrying a
number of completed homes for sale
on this development into 2009 and the
Company is budgeting on this basis. 
The number of affordable homes sold has
increased to 502 from 84 last year, partly
reflecting the timing of some significant
contracts. Partnerships with affordable
housing providers remain integral to
our business and typically 35% of any
development is sold for affordable housing. 
These partnerships are even more
significant in the current climate and
we will continue to be active in seeking
opportunities where an increased level
of affordable housing reduces the open
market risk in a development. 
Our development at Papermill Place in
Walthamstow incorporates 175 homes being
constructed for East Thames Housing Group
for £19.3 million as well as 66 open market
homes being marketed as Vellum. This mix of
homes improves the return on equity from
the development and secures cash inflows
over the course of construction in return for
a lower anticipated margin. In total at 
31st March 2008 amounts due under
affordable housing contracts over the next
few years were in excess of £60 million. 
Completions
Consumer confidence in the national
housing market has been hit in recent
months by the reduced availability and
higher cost of mortgage finance.
Restrictions on mortgage finance make
the process of legally completing finished
properties more protracted. 
Telford Homes is communicating with
each purchaser to ensure their financial
arrangements have been instigated at an
early enough stage to meet our completion
dates. In addition we have been in dialogue
with some of the major lenders and valuers
to maximise confidence through
transparency of information. The 
Telford Homes approach to sales is based 
on net prices agreed at the point of sale 
with no undisclosed discounts or incentives
distorting true valuations. 
In the last six months we have legally
completed more than 300 open market
homes at Icona in Stratford and 
Queen Mary’s Gate with a quarter of these
in the past eight weeks. Although some have
taken slightly longer than usual to complete
there have only been a few serious issues; on
two occasions we rescinded contracts with
the buyer and retained the 10% deposit. One
of these properties was immediately resold
and completed, the other was rescinded in
April 2008 and is expected to be resold at no
less than the original purchase price. 
Despite the problems in the mortgage
market, our performance on completions
to date coupled with our early dialogue
with customers due to complete later in
2008 means that we remain confident that
the projected cash inflows from exchanged
properties will be realised. 
annual report and accounts 2008     12
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:54  Page 13 Site acquisitions
The Company has reduced its investment
in the development pipeline over the last
few months in response to a climate of
continuing uncertainty in the housing
market and the economy. Protection of
cash has become our immediate priority
and we are therefore appraising sites
which have lower up-front net equity
requirements including joint ventures and
partnerships with housing associations. 
Our most recent acquisition is a parcel of
five sites in Southwark in partnership with
Family Mosaic Housing Association which
are expected to deliver over 100 new
homes. There are no initial land payments
from Telford Homes and the expected
proceeds will be shared with Family Mosaic
under the terms of the agreement. Three
of the sites are already under construction
and the other two are subject to receipt of
full planning permission. 
Planning
The planning process remains a significant
barrier to the efficient delivery of new homes
in London. We retain a competitive advantage
through our knowledge of the local planning
environment in East London and this puts us
in a strong position. During the year we have
had a number of successes including full
planning permission for the 371 homes at
Greenwich Creekside, our joint venture with
The Royal Bank of Scotland, and for 360
homes in Bethnal Green Road, our joint
venture with Genesis Housing Group. 
Increasing bureaucracy and the need to satisfy
several different bodies with competing views
have led to delays in the development of
some sites which are expected to be under
construction during 2008. Two of our
developments await appeal decisions which, if
allowed, will mean work can commence later
this year. Overall the number of units in the
development pipeline that are subject to the
planning process has reduced to 25% of the
total pipeline from 42% last year. 
chief executive’s review
13     annual report and accounts 2008
Cosmopolitan Apartments,
Enfield
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:55  Page 14 business & financial review
Development pipeline and partnerships
Our development pipeline, being properties
that will produce profit in future years
excluding those built for joint venture
partners, consists of 1,388 properties with
planning permission and 454 subject to the
planning process. This is a total of 1,842
properties which are expected to provide
turnover in excess of £430 million and
gross profit of over £80 million. 
Although we have reduced our investment
in new land, we have retained financial
resources to deploy in our partnerships
with Eastend Homes and Poplar HARCA.
These housing transfer organisations are
both significant land owners in East
London and have chosen Telford Homes
to be their partner on a number of large
regeneration schemes. 
Following the success of our partnership with
Eastend Homes on the British Estate, E3, we
have now submitted plans for the St George’s
Estate, E1 and we continue to progress master
plans for the regeneration of five other
estates. The British Estate has set the model
for this partnership with land payments made
by Telford Homes being reinvested into the
third party refurbishment of existing homes
on the estate. In total the partnership with
Eastend Homes is expected to add in excess of
1,000 properties to the development pipeline
and the partnership with Poplar HARCA is
expected to add over 400 properties. 
In further recognition of our contribution
to the supply of affordable housing we
were chosen as a pre-qualified partner
of the Housing Corporation during 2007.
This enables the Company to bid directly for
grant funding and gives us greater influence
in the provision of new affordable housing. 
annual report and accounts 2008     14
Computer
generated image of
Bethnal Green Road, E1
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:55  Page 15 chief executive’s review
15     annual report and accounts 2008
Operating performance
The operational output of the business
continues to grow and we have over 3,000
properties either in the planning process, in
detailed design or under construction. There
are now three operating divisions managing
delivery, following the formation of Strada
earlier this year to join Alto and Metro. In
many ways it is business as usual in the
operational management of the development
pipeline and it will remain so if we continue
to be successful in selling our homes at an
early stage in the development process. 
Health and Safety remains at the forefront
of our business and we have continued to
develop and monitor our policies and
procedures during the year. 
People
Staff numbers have risen in the last 12
months to manage increasing activity.
We will maintain and expand this
infrastructure to deliver our properties
whilst we are able to secure the cash
inflows from their development. Every
employee contributes to the excellent
reputation of Telford Homes and I thank
each of them for their efforts this year in
producing another set of record results. 
Computer generated
image of Stadthaus, N1
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:55  Page 16 business & financial review
annual report and accounts 2008     16
Computer generated
images of Kinetica, E8
Current trading and outlook
The reduced availability of mortgage
finance is continuing to weaken confidence
in the national housing market which makes
it more difficult to secure individual sales,
even in London, traditionally the most
resilient region. Our developments with
completion dates 12 months or more into
the future continue to attract buyers’
interest confirming long term confidence.
Queen Mary’s Gate, still with availability
and completing later in 2008, has seen a
significant slowdown in sales in the past
few months due to short term concerns. 
We will time sales launches at Greenwich
Creekside and Bethnal Green Road to get
the best results in light of prevailing market
conditions; both of these developments are
due for completion in 2011. Reflecting our
high percentage of pre-sales at 31st March
2008 we have made only a handful of sales
since the end of the year with no new
launches and relatively little marketing
activity taking place during this period. 
Recent figures from the Department for
Communities and Local Government show
that the supply of new homes is not going
to meet current government targets in the
short term. New housing starts for the three
months to March 2008 were 32,100 against
an annual target of 240,000. Ongoing tighter
terms for mortgage finance will further
restrict new starts as developers will not
construct properties that cannot be sold.
The imbalance between the supply of new
homes and the need for somewhere to live is
increasingly evident and the rental market in
East London is growing steadily as a result. 
The Company is in a strong position both
to withstand the current market and to
benefit once conditions begin to improve.
Our strategy in previous years of pre-selling 
is now paying off and as at 31st March 2008
revenue secured but not yet recognised was
£125 million, up from £91 million at the
same time last year. 
We are cautious in our approach to the new
financial year, but the need for new housing
in East London, together with an ongoing
programme of regeneration, our brand’s
reputation and our beneficial partnerships
with affordable housing providers, gives me
confidence that the medium to longer term
outlook for Telford Homes remains positive. 
Andrew Wiseman
Chief Executive
27th May 2008
Telford RA  24/6/08  17:55  Page 17
