 “Once again I can report on a
year in which we have exceeded
our initial expectations. Turnover
has grown by 32% to £104.4 million
and profit before tax is up 35%
to £13.5 million.
Earnings per share have increased
by 27% to 30.3p despite the dilutive
effect of the share placing and the
directors are proposing a final
dividend of 4.9p, making a total
of 8.9p for the year.”
Property sales and
affordable housing
Contracts were exchanged on 478
private homes, 84 affordable homes
and two commercial units making a
total of 564 properties in the year.
Included within this figure are 16 homes
being constructed under joint ventures
where we recognise half of the turnover
and profit from the development.
The number of private homes sold has
increased by 45% this year with the
average selling price of those homes
also increasing to £258,000 from
£245,000. Prices have continued to
move ahead in East London and, where
the market allows, we have maintained
our policy of selling properties at an
early stage in the development
process. This secures future cash flows
and enables us to invest further in our
development pipeline. We have been
able to secure increased bank finance
as a direct result of the volume of early
sales on some sites which offsets the
risk of increased gearing.
Earlier this year we sold all 179 private
homes at OneStratford our
development in High Street, Stratford
before construction had commenced.
More recently we have sold all of the
53 private homes at Metro East, E3
and the 144 private homes at SoBow,
E3 and work is only just underway at
both sites. Both of these developments
went on sale in 2007 and the success
we have achieved is an indication of
the continuing strength of the market,
particularly in East London. Of the 197
private homes across these two sites
81 contracts were exchanged in the
year to March with the remainder being
exchanged in the new financial year
and all have been sold to investors.
Andrew Wiseman
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review
Turnover
£104.4million
7 Annual report and accounts 07
R&A Telford 07  4/6/07  16:27  Page 8 Business and financial review
Icona, Stratford under construction
Annual report and accounts 07 8
R&A Telford 07  4/6/07  16:27  Page 9 Queen Mary’s Gate, South Woodford is
a different marketing proposition with
sales to date being largely to the
owner-occupier market. Despite this
the rate of sales has been impressive
with handovers not due to commence
until November this year. To date we
have sold 123 of the 184 private homes
in the first construction phase.
The number of affordable properties
sold this year is lower than last year due
solely to the timing of some significant
contracts. In March 2006 we
exchanged contracts to deliver all of
the affordable homes at OneStratford
and Queen Mary’s Gate with those 232
exchanges being recognised last year
but the majority of the profits flowing
into 2007 and beyond. Partnerships
with affordable housing providers
remain integral to our business and
typically 35% of any development is
sold for affordable housing.
Our accounting policy is to recognise
turnover and profit from the point of
exchange of contracts on a
percentage complete basis. This
means that in addition to profit
recognised from contracts exchanged
in the year we also have profit
continuing to be realised from ongoing
construction at developments where
the exchanges have been reported in
previous years. Our results this year
include profits from, amongst others,
Tequila Wharf, E14 where sales
commenced in 2004 and the
development was completed at the
end of 2006 and Icona, Stratford
where sales commenced in 2005 and
development will continue into 2008. 
Operating performance
The operational heart of our business
has once again delivered outstanding
quality of final product, on programme
and within budget. Both Telford Homes
Metro and Telford Homes Alto
continue to experience substantial
change in the scope of their
operations and new staff have been
recruited to ensure we have the
capacity to cope with expansion. In
recognition of our operational
performance we have won a number of
awards in the year for design,
construction and marketing.
During the year ended 31st March
2007 we handed over a total of 477
properties to our customers, achieving
excellent standards in Customer
Service. We are rated highly amongst
our peers in independent surveys and
our attention to detail in the handover
process, together with our approach in
dealing directly with tenants where
properties have been rented out, is a
significant factor in our level of sales to
previous customers.
Health and Safety is always at the
forefront of our business and this year
we have recruited a Group Health and
Safety Manager who is assisting David
Durant, our Group Managing Director,
and the divisional Managing Directors
in developing and monitoring our
policies and procedures.
Chief Executive’s review
Properties handed over
477
Contracts exchanged
564
Increase in profit before tax
35%
9 Annual report and accounts 07
CGI of Kira Building at Merchants’ Quarter, British Estate
R&A Telford 07  4/6/07  16:27  Page 10 Business and financial review
Site acquisitions
This year we have substantially
increased our development pipeline
purchasing, or agreeing to purchase, a
number of new development sites. This
has been accelerated by the £14.4
million net funds raised in a placing at
the end of 2006.  Mike North has joined
our land team alongside Jim Furlong
and Nick Drew our Partnerships Director
and Mike has already been responsible
for some significant site acquisitions.
Some of the land acquired benefited
from detailed planning permission such
that development could commence
almost immediately. SoBow, E3 was
purchased from one of our affordable
housing partners with the benefit of a
resolution to grant planning permission
for 201 homes. Development is now
underway and will be completed in
2009. We have recently purchased a
site at Leyton Orient Football Club
where redevelopment adjacent to the
North and South stands incorporates
a planning permission for 62 homes.
A number of land acquisitions were
subject to receipt of satisfactory
planning permission. These include land
within the British Estate, E3 which
received a resolution to grant planning
permission to provide 161 new private
homes in January 2007. Since the share
placing we have also contracted to
purchase a major site in Greenwich in a
joint venture with The Royal Bank of
Scotland. The contract is subject to
receipt of planning permission for 372
homes which is expected in the next few
months. This will be our second joint
venture with The Royal Bank of
Scotland and our success together at
Icona, Stratford has led us to continue
our partnership on this exciting scheme. 
We have also added to our medium to
longer term development pipeline with
the acquisition of sites that we will
progress through the planning process.
The former Lesney Toys factory in
Homerton Road, Hackney is expected to
achieve planning permission for over
200 homes and commercial space,
including affordable art studios. In
addition the Hannaford and Marshall site
in Bethnal Green Road near Liverpool
Street station has been acquired in a
joint venture with Genesis Housing
Group and is expected to achieve
planning permission for more than 300
homes and commercial space.
(Left to right) Neil Brooks Partnerships Manager, Mike North Senior Land Buyer, Nick Drew Partnerships Director
Annual report and accounts 07 10
R&A Telford 07  4/6/07  16:27  Page 11 Chief Executive’s review
11 Annual report and accounts 07
CGI of Queen Mary’s Gate
Queen Mary’s Gate Sales Centre, South Woodford
R&A Telford 07  4/6/07  16:27  Page 12 Business and financial review
Planning
The planning process is more
complicated than ever before with an
increasing number of external
consultants’ reports being required
for each application. A key
competitive advantage comes from
knowing your way through the
process and our knowledge of the
local planning environment in East
London puts us in a strong position,
while not removing all of the hurdles
that can be placed in our path. 
Development pipeline
Our development pipeline, being
properties that will produce profit in
future years not including those built for
joint venture partners, consists of 1,279
properties with planning permission and
942 subject to the planning process.
This is a total of 2,221 properties which
are expected to provide turnover in
excess of £500 million and gross profit
of over £100 million, more than four
years supply at current levels of profit.
Of this forecast gross profit in the
pipeline over £24 million has been
secured by contracts already exchanged
and this will be recognised as
construction proceeds on developments
over the next two to three years. Gross
profit in the year ended 31st March 2007
was £23.4 million.
Our partnership with Eastend Homes
has added the homes on the British
Estate to our pipeline. During the year
we have been chosen as the
development partner to Eastend
Homes on a number of other well
located estates in Tower Hamlets. We
have secured this partnership due to
the quality of the Telford Homes brand
which incorporates a straight-forward
and honest approach. We are now
progressing master plans for the
regeneration of these estates and we
expect to achieve planning permissions
and then commence construction on
all of them over the next two years. The
British Estate has set the model for this
partnership with land payments made
by Telford Homes being reinvested into
the third party refurbishment of existing
homes on the estate.
People
Several senior members of staff have
been recruited as we continue to plan
for the future and ensure that our
internal infrastructure is always one
step ahead of our growth plans.
We finished the year with over 120
employees and our strength in every
area is evident from our performance
over the last 12 months. I would like to
thank each and every one of our
employees for their efforts this year.
Strategy
Each year the directors review the
strategy of Telford Homes to ensure
that we are creating maximum value for
shareholders and taking advantage of
all the opportunities that come our way
while minimising risks in the business.
There are so many opportunities in
East London, and our knowledge of this
market place is so strong, that we will
largely remain focused on this region.
We expect to continue to pre-sell a
proportion of our developments,
depending on their location, in order to
secure future cash flows and minimise
the funding risks. 
In doing this we will maintain organic
growth at a controlled rate in order to
capitalise on the imbalance between
supply and demand for properties in
our area of operation. This was part of
the reasoning for the share placing last
year and will be our main driver in the
future while the market remains stable.
Interest rates will be a key factor in the
stability or otherwise of the market and
the mechanics of supply and demand
will also play a significant role in the
coming years.
Current trading and outlook
Our recent sales launches are an
indication that the market in East
London remains strong despite rising
interest rates. We were extremely
pleased with the results of these sales
events and the upcoming launch of
Merchants’ Quarter, the marketing
name for the British Estate, has
received a high level of interest.
To date, due to contracts exchanged
since 31st March 2007 and properties
sold, subject to contract, we have a
total of 185 private homes and 25
affordable homes contributing to our
results for 2008. The demand for
homes in East London, the strength of
our development pipeline and our
ongoing partnerships with affordable
housing providers lead me to expect
2008 to be another year of record
results and another step forward in the
development of Telford Homes.
Andrew Wiseman
Chief Executive
21st May 2007
Properties in the development pipeline
2,221
Annual report and accounts 07 12
Turnover in the development pipeline
£500million
R&A Telford 07  4/6/07  16:27  Page 13
