 4
Chief Executive’s review
Andrew Wiseman Chief Executive Financial results
I am delighted to report a substantial
performance, generating profit before
tax of £4.3 million, in our second period
of trading. Since incorporation in
December 2000, the growth of Telford
Homes has been tremendous and
reflects the efforts of everybody who is
involved with the Company. 
Turnover for the year ended 31st March
2003 was £25.3 million compared with
£8.8 million in our first 16 month period
of trading to 31st March 2002. Earnings
per share for the year were 12.7p
(2002 – 10.1p) and the directors are
proposing a final dividend of 2.0p per
share making 3.0p for the year.  
Over the course of the year we exchanged
contracts on the sale of 112 “open-market”
private homes at an average selling price
of £214,000. In our first 16 month
trading period we exchanged contracts
on 61 “open-market” homes at an
average price of £210,000.
Increasingly our business involves building
mixed developments. During the year
our income was complemented by the
sale of 11 “affordable” homes, six small
retail units, 6,500 square feet of office
space, a construction contract to build a
community centre and the sale of a
small development site. Including those
sales, we exchanged contracts on 132 
properties in the year. Our target for the 
full year, set out in the Interim Statement
announced on 19th November 2002, was
to exchange contracts on 137 properties.
However, the mix of sales in the year and
our progress on development sites
was such that our performance in
reported turnover and profit before
tax is in excess of our expectations at
that time.
Our product and the market place
We remain focused on a small
geographical area to the east of the City
of London and the area in and around
Docklands. In addition we have one
development in Chelmsford town centre.
We continue to appraise land purchase
opportunities in these as well as wider
areas and we may consider opportunities
that will broaden our geographical
spread, but still be within one hour’s
travel from our offices.
Our product is typically a one or two
bedroom apartment with a bathroom
for each bedroom, a lounge/dining room,
an attached and fully fitted kitchen with
breakfast area and a private terrace or
balcony providing outside space. Floor
coverings of laminated wood in the halls
and living rooms, carpets to the bedrooms
and tiling to kitchens and bathrooms are
provided as standard. 
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
“Our relationships with public
sector housing providers continue
and we look forward to further
involvement with them.”
Case Study
Gale Street
One of several sites purchased
from Poplar HARCA, one of our
public sector housing partners.
Gale Street is part of the ongoing
regeneration of East London
including the creation of attractive
private developments, close to
good transport links, in areas of
predominantly affordable housing.
Gale Street consists of 11 private
apartments. All 11 were sold to
one investment buyer in July 2002
and the development was
completed and handed over in
April 2003. 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Lansdowne Drive E8 Blondin Street E3
Gale Street E3 6
Chief Executive’s review
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Each development would contain a
range of apartment types at varying
prices, and would include a number with
exceptional features such as large terraces,
double height living rooms, duplex
apartments or galleried mezzanine spaces.
The majority of our homes have been sold
at an early stage of construction, usually
12 months prior to build completion.
Purchasers have generally been investment
buyers who either sell-on or hold the flat
for letting purposes. Despite signs of a
housing market slowdown for property
priced above £250,000, buyers of our
properties continue to be active and
our performance since the year end
supports this statement.
Development sites and
development partners
During the year we made two substantial
site acquisitions and both sites benefit
from outline planning consents for
residential development. 
The first is the site of the former Island
Gardens DLR station which lies directly
opposite the new DLR station, on the
river at the Greenwich foot tunnel. This
site has a development capacity of more
than 100 residential apartments and was
acquired as a joint venture with Asda
Property Holdings Ltd.  
The second is a redundant warehouse,
accessed from the A13, and bordering
the Regents Canal at its entrance into the
Limehouse Basin.  
Detailed planning consents for these two
sites as well as for our major joint
development with East Thames Housing
Association, at Abbotts Wharf on the
Limehouse Cut, are nearing conclusion
after negotiations with the local planning
authority on design and the provision of
“affordable” housing. The length of time
it takes to achieve a satisfactory planning
consent acts as a significant brake to the
supply of new homes. In this environment
our relationships with planning authorities
and housing associations have proved
valuable in enabling us to achieve planning
consents and I am delighted to report
that the local authority resolved to grant
planning consent at Abbotts Wharf for
201 units on 14th May 2003.
We have also acquired three smaller sites
in East London including one where we
are providing a community centre beneath
private apartments and another where we
will be working with Ujima, which will be
a new housing association partner for us.
Case Study
Goldsmith’s apartments
This development consists of 35
private apartments and 11
affordable apartments. The
affordable apartments have been
purchased by Bethnal Green and
Victoria Park Housing Association
and will provide homes at subsidised
rent and in shared ownership.
Each of the private apartments has
a west facing balcony overlooking
Haggerston Park and they are being
sold off-plan while construction
proceeds. At 31st March 2003
we had exchanged 20 contracts
and since then we have exchanged
contracts on a further 2 apartments
and reserved 9 more subject
to contract.
CGI of Pelling Street apartments 7
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CGI to show location of The Goldsmith’s apartments 
CGI of Hawgood Street
The provision of attractive apartments
to the private market is increasingly
entwined with the provision of “affordable”
housing and good relationships with
registered social landlords are essential
to us. Our relationships with East
Thames Housing Association, Boleyn &
Forest HA, Bethnal Green & Victoria Park
HA and Poplar HARCA continue and we
look forward to further involvement
with them.   
We have agreed terms to acquire five
more sites in East London to provide an
additional 133 homes which will bring
our stock of land, assuming receipt of
expected detailed planning consents,
to 616 units. 
Our current development capacity will
allow us cautiously to expand the
business and produce further growth.
People and systems
The heart of our business is the
management of our construction where
we have a youthful and enthusiastic
management team supported by
experienced site managers controlling
the sub-contracted trades. This team
has been strengthened, in preparation
for the major construction projects at
Abbotts Wharf and Island Gardens, by
the recruitment of John Fitzgerald. 
John has excellent experience in
complex residential construction and
will be a key member of the executive
team. Our design, surveying and buying
team at head office are providing a
professional service to construction and
we are therefore able to produce a
high quality and attractive product for
our customers.   8
Chief Executive’s review
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
Case Study
Abbotts Wharf
Abbotts Wharf, on the Limehouse
Cut near Bartlett Park, is being
developed in partnership with East
Thames and Boleyn & Forest Housing
Associations. There will be 201 homes
to provide a range of tenures
including subsidised rent, shared
equity and private ownership. 
The scheme will include diverting
the towpath around a marina
within the development and past a
waterfront restaurant.
The local authority resolved to
grant planning consent on 14th
May 2003.
Our success relies on the construction
process supported by effective sales and
marketing, land buying and finance teams.
Teamwork is a fundamental strength of
the business and the quality people we
now have in place will help to continue
the development of Telford Homes as a
successful niche house builder.
Current trading and outlook
Since the year end we have recognised
15 contract exchanges at a combined
value of £3.1 million and we have sold,
subject to contract, a further 28 properties
with a value of £5.3 million.
There are several development launches
due in the coming months and interest
for these sites is already very encouraging.
We are confident that we will continue
to achieve significant pre-sales and
therefore look forward to another
successful year.
Andrew Wiseman
Chief Executive 9
Annual Report and Accounts 2003
CGI of Abbotts Wharf
