 Chairman’s 
statement
David Holland
Our success in marketing 
developments in the Far East 
has continued with the launch 
of Avant-garde in April and 
May 2011
In the year to 31 March 2011 Telford Homes 
exchanged contracts for the sale of 368 open 
market properties, an increase of 45 per cent 
over last year. This performance has been 
driven by successful marketing campaigns  
in the Far East, selling properties before 
construction has commenced, together with 
a steady rate of demand from UK buyers.
During the recession the Group reduced  
its investment in new land opportunities 
and switched some of its developments  
to wholly affordable housing. As expected 
this has reduced both the output of finished 
open market homes and profit margins. 
Despite this the Group met market 
forecasts for the year to 31 March 2011 
achieving profit before tax and after 
exceptional items of £3.0 million.
Our success in marketing developments in 
the Far East has continued with the launch 
of Avant-garde in April and May 2011. 
Together with a strong performance at 
the UK launch we have achieved over 170 
sales out of the 257 open market homes on 
the development. These sales secure the 
recognition of profit for Telford Homes and 
our new joint venture partner, The William 
Pears Group, when the homes are handed 
over in 2013 and 2014.
Reduced output and margins will continue 
to keep profits at a lower level in the new 
financial year but these effects will have 
substantially been worked through the 
business by March 2012. Beyond this date 
the Board expects significant growth in the 
number of finished homes from the existing 
development pipeline and has secured 
pre-sales on some of those developments 
at normal margins. The signing of our new 
bank facility in March this year will improve 
our ability to add to the development 
pipeline for future years in a climate where 
many smaller developers are struggling to 
access finance.
As a result the Board is maintaining a 
progressive dividend policy in proposing a 
final dividend of 1.25 pence making a total 
of 2.5 pence for the year (2010: 2.0 pence).
Finally it gives me great pleasure to welcome 
Jon Di-Stefano as our new Chief Executive 
with effect from 1 July 2011. Jon replaces 
Andrew Wiseman and I am confident that 
Telford Homes will continue to prosper under 
his leadership. After ten years in our current 
roles Andrew will take over from me on his full 
time return to Telford Homes in January 2012, 
assuming the position of Executive Chairman, 
thus retaining his skills and knowledge within 
the business. I have been delighted to serve 
as Chairman over a successful decade and I 
look forward to continuing as a Non-Executive 
Director in the future.
david Holland 
Chairman (Non-Executive)
31 May 2011
BuildiNG
progress
Year in Review
www.telfordhomes.plc.uk 09
TEF2681 - AR11 front AW02.indd   9 13/06/2011   10:48
