 09
Review of the Year
www.telfordhomes.plc.uk
Cha IRman’ S Statement
I am pleased to be reporting on another good 
year for Telford Homes where both sales rates 
and profit levels have exceeded the Board’s 
expectations. The housing market in London has 
remained robust, particularly relative to the rest 
of the country, and the Group’s activities are 
focused on some of the more successful locations 
within this market.
The Group’s open market customers are split 
between UK buyers, both owner-occupiers and 
investors, and a continuing level of investment 
demand from overseas buyers.
Telford Homes’ land buying strategy ensures 
that sites purchased are attractive to the Group’s 
target markets and in locations where we expect 
sufficient finance to be available for buyers to 
purchase the homes. The overseas launch of  
The Panoramic, just north of Canary Wharf, 
earlier this month proves there is demand in the 
Far East for the right product in the right location 
with 44 of the 90 open market homes already sold.
The Group has reached the end of the two year 
period during which the Board anticipated profits 
at lower levels, due to the longer term effects of 
the housing downturn in 2008 and 2009, and 
Telford Homes is now in a strong position with 
available finance as well as a healthy development 
pipeline. This enables the Board to be confident 
in forecasting a significant increase in profit for 
the year to 31 March 2013 and continued growth 
beyond that.
The Board has reaffirmed its intention to pay a 
progressive dividend year-on-year and as such 
the final dividend proposed is 1.5 pence making a 
total of 3.0 pence for the year (2011: 2.5 pence). 
Looking forward the Board expects to pay around 
a third of its future earnings in dividends.
After ten years as Non-Executive Chairman  
David Holland has moved aside for me but  
will continue to contribute as our senior  
Non-Executive Director. I returned to the business  
on 1 January 2012 following a six month break  
and I have been delighted at the way that 
Jon Di-Stefano has managed the handover of 
responsibilities to his new role as Chief Executive 
and the success the Group has achieved since.
There are some exciting developments in our 
immediate pipeline and, together with the rest  
of the Board, I look forward to supporting Jon  
in the years ahead.
Andrew Wiseman
Executive Chairman
29 May 2012
“ Telford Homes is now in a strong 
position with available finance as well 
as a healthy development pipeline.”
andrew Wiseman, Executive Chairman
