 “The Board is cautiously
optimistic in its outlook
and believes Telford
Homes is well placed
to benefit from a future
improvement in
market conditions”
Andrew Wiseman
Chief Executive
In spite of the unprecedented and difficult
financial environment for the Group’s investor
customers the number of open market property
completions achieved in the year to 31st March
2009 rose to 350 from 306 in the previous year. Total
revenue has grown by 10 per cent to £106.7 million
with profit before tax and exceptional items up 12
per cent to £7.3 million.
The Group reported in September 2008 that new
accounting standards had resulted in a change
to its accounting policies in relation to open
market private homes with revenue and profit
now recognised on legal completion. On
affordable homes, sold to housing associations
under construction contracts, revenue and profit 
is recognised on a percentage of completion
basis. There are currently over 700 affordable
homes being developed and payments will
continue to be received from the Group’s
housing association partners as construction 
of these homes progresses.
Sales
The strategy of Telford Homes has always been
to pre-sell open market homes at a very early
stage of construction whenever possible. The
success of this strategy in the past has meant
that the Group has had relatively few properties
available for sale over the past twelve months.
Market conditions have affected the confidence
of purchasers of new homes and as such the
marketing of unsold homes on developments
due for completion in 2010 and 2011 has been
held back while construction continues. With
substantial forward sales on these projects,
including the affordable housing, the Group’s
decision to continue building has been taken
with a recognition that lower open market sales
prices may be realised in the future.
Efforts to secure new sales have been
concentrated at the Group’s developments 
at Queen Mary’s Gate in South Woodford and
Nayland Court in Romford. At Queen Mary’s Gate
the first phase of the development, including 184
open market homes, was completed in May 2008
and all but one have been sold and occupied
with the final property now reserved. The second
phase, including 93 open market homes, was
completed in November 2008 and 29 have been
sold to date. The third phase including 95 open
market homes will not be build complete until the
second half of 2010. Overall sales at Queen Mary’s
Gate have been considerably slower throughout
the last twelve months although eight sales have
completed in the last twelve weeks with a further
four reserved and one property where contracts
have been exchanged. Visitor levels are now
much higher than at the end of 2008 and this 
gives the Board an expectation that a slow but
steady rate of sales will continue to be achieved
through the rest of this year.
07     Telford Homes Plc 2009
chief executive’s review
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 6 Telford Homes Plc 2009 08
business & financial review
Metro East E3
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 7 09    Telford Homes Plc 2009
chief executive’s review continued
OneStratford E15
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 8 20,000
0
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
Mar 09
Feb 09
Jan 09
Dec 08
Nov 08
Oct 08
Sep 08
Aug 08
Jul 08
Jun 08
May 08
Apr 08
Mar 08
Feb 08
Jan 08
Seasonally adjusted monthly number of mortgage approvals for house purchases by individuals
Source: Bank of England
At Nayland Court in Romford, Telford Homes has
26 build complete homes remaining for sale with
demand for these being maintained by the ‘My
Choice Home Buy’ scheme (“MCHB”) from the
HCA which provides a mortgage for up to 50
per cent of the home with a very low deposit
and interest rate. The processing of MCHB
applications suffers from periodic delays in the
release of funds but the Group has seven homes
currently reserved on the development all using
this product. Here again, recent progress means
the Group would expect to sell the majority of
the remaining properties during 2009.
Telford Homes will bring other developments
back to the market when conditions are right
and when construction on those developments
reaches an appropriate stage to attract buyers.
Completions
From 1st October 2008 Telford Homes began 
a rolling programme where 613 open market
homes sold in previous years would become
due for legal completion in the period up to
March 2010. As at 31st March 2009, 220 of 
these properties had been legally completed.
The key issues for the Group’s customers are the
restriction of mortgage finance for buy-to-let
investors and the increasing caution applied by
valuation surveyors with a lack of comparable
transactions. Importantly the Group’s properties
continue to attract tenants for its investor
customers and this underpins their value.
The general problems experienced in securing
mortgages are illustrated by statistics for the
number of mortgage approvals for house
purchases in 2008. The Bank of England
seasonally adjusted figures show that the number
of approvals per month fell rapidly from 71,000 in
January 2008 to 27,000 in November 2008. Since
then there has been some improvement in these
statistics with the number of approvals reaching
39,000 in March 2009. This is still well below normal
levels and, whilst to date the process of achieving
new sales and completions has not got any easier,
the Board hopes it is an indication that mortgage
availability will improve during the rest of 2009.
Telford Homes continues pro-active
communication with each purchaser to ensure
their financial arrangements are instigated at
the right stage and the Group has been
working with each of them to maximise the
chances of achieving completions. In addition
Telford Homes has maintained a dialogue with
some of the major lenders and their valuers to
give maximum comfort in the pricing of the
Group’s apartments through transparency of
information and supporting evidence. The
Board has reported in the past that the Telford
Homes approach to sales is based on net prices
agreed at the point of sale with no undisclosed
discounts or incentives and this has proved
extremely important both to customers of
Telford Homes and their lenders.
The Group will rescind contracts on properties
where its customers are unable to complete 
the purchase, retaining the 10 per cent deposit
already paid. Where necessary, Telford Homes
will also take legal action against the defaulting
purchasers as a result of their failure to honour
contractual obligations.
Telford Homes Plc 2009 10
business & financial review
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 9 11     Telford Homes Plc 2009
Despite achievements to date the Group is
experiencing significant delays in securing each
completion. As a result the Board has positioned
Telford Homes to withstand an increased number
of delays and failures. The total number of failures
in the year to March 2010 is forecast to reach
between 60 and 80 of the pre-sold homes due to
complete over that period, assuming there is no
improvement in mortgage availability.
Telford Homes has contingency plans in place to
deal with failed contracts which will mitigate the
impact on cash flow. These plans include
temporarily securing tenants for the properties
before reselling them into an orderly market. The
Group has obtained outline terms from each of
its three banks to provide mortgages against a
portfolio of these rented properties at between
50 and 60 per cent of their value and in addition
the Group is well advanced with contractual
negotiations to secure £6 million of funding from
alternative sources at a 75 per cent loan to value
ratio. This will enable the business to withstand
significantly more failures than anticipated as 
well as providing cash resources to further our
partnerships with housing associations and
housing transfer organisations.
HCA and affordable housing
The Board has taken a number of steps to
maintain activity in the construction of new homes
through partnerships with housing associations and
the HCA. As reported on 20th April 2009 the Group
has agreed a grant programme with the HCA of
£57 million across four sites owned by Telford Homes
and three estate regeneration projects in
partnership with Eastend Homes. The grants will
part finance over 400 affordable homes over 
the next three years.
Partnerships with affordable housing providers
remain integral to the business and typically 35
per cent of any development is sold for
affordable housing. However in order to de-risk
new projects the Group has sought to construct
some developments entirely for its housing
association partners utilising HCA grant. Although
at a lower margin, this gives Telford Homes the
ability to commence construction on these sites
with secured cash inflows over the course of the
development. The Group has recently entered
into a contract with Family Mosaic to construct 63
affordable homes across two sites in Queens
Road, Southwark and a contract with Gallions
Housing Association to construct 53 affordable
homes in St Anne’s Row, E14. The Group has also
agreed terms to construct 64 affordable homes
for Poplar HARCA in Lanrick Road, E14.
chief executive’s review continued
SoBow E3
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 10 Telford Homes Plc 2009 12
Partnerships and the development pipeline
Telford Homes has maintained its prudent
approach to investment in land during the last
twelve months whilst retaining financial resources
to deploy in its partnerships with Eastend Homes
and Poplar HARCA. The Group reported last year
that these housing transfer organisations are both
significant land owners in East London and have
chosen Telford Homes to be their partner on a
number of large regeneration schemes.
The British Estate, E3, has set the model for the
partnership with Eastend Homes where land
payments made by Telford Homes have been
reinvested into the third party refurbishment of
existing homes on the estate. The Group has now
entered into a contract to build 54 affordable
homes on the St George’s Estate, E1 for Eastend
Homes along with a construction contract for
infrastructure works required on the estate. In
addition Telford Homes has option contracts over
land on the estate to provide 139 open market
homes and these are due from 2010 onwards.
Construction of the affordable homes is now
underway and as such the Group has drawn 
its first grant tranche from the HCA.
Telford Homes continues to progress master plans
for the regeneration of five other estates with
Eastend Homes and the Group expects to
commence construction of 74 affordable homes
on the Bede Estate, E3, in autumn 2009. Bede and
the other estates are expected to add in excess
of 900 properties to the development pipeline
over the next few years and the partnership with
Poplar HARCA an additional 400 properties.
As at 31st March 2009 the total pipeline of open
market and affordable properties not yet legally
completed was 2,635 including 2,400 with
planning permission. This total includes sites
under option contracts within the control of the
Group. Of these properties 1,503 are under
construction with 1,115 currently secured by
contracts exchanged either for open market
sale or for affordable housing. Open market
pre-sales contracts totalled £128.4 million at 31st
March 2009 although some of these will fail 
to complete leaving the Group with unsold
property. Affordable housing revenue contracted
but not yet recognised totalled £34.6 million at
the year end and this is secured through payments
received from housing associations as
construction progresses.
business & financial review
Decorum E10
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 11 13     Telford Homes Plc 2009
chief executive’s review continued
Planning
The Group’s focus on East London gives Telford
Homes significant development presence that
engenders respect from the local planning
authorities and the Group has achieved a
number of important permissions this year. These
include 193 homes on the St George’s Estate,
236 homes on the Bede Estate and 209 homes
on the Holland Estate. The Group is working 
with both Eastend Homes and Poplar HARCA 
to achieve planning permissions on land owned
by them that will later be developed under 
the existing partnerships. Only two of the sites
owned directly by Telford Homes do not have
detailed planning permission and the Group is
progressing plans on each of these with the 
aim of receiving approvals during 2009.
People
In December 2008 the Group reported that 
the Board expected to reduce the number 
of people employed by Telford Homes by
between a quarter and a third before the end of
2009, depending on success in securing projects
that do not require a cash investment. The HCA
grant programme and the Group’s expectation
of constructing affordable housing on a number
of developments gives the Board confidence
that the number of redundancies will be less
than originally feared. As ever, and in particular
during these difficult times with pay frozen and
no bonuses being paid, the Board is extremely
grateful for the commitment and effort shown
by all of the Group’s employees.
Construction
Despite the impact that market conditions and
the redundancy programme have had on
morale, Telford Homes has continued to produce
well designed and well built developments. This is
a real credit to the work of the operating divisions
in a period that has seen continual appraisal of
prospects and a consequent re-organisation,
alongside redundancies.
The quality of the finished product continues 
to be ensured by the work of the Telford Homes
Customer Service team that provide quality
control and give a consistent ‘face’ to customers.
The delivery of a first rate home is a fundamental
step in the completion process.
Construction is the heart of Telford Homes and
Health and Safety is at the forefront of the
Group’s working practices. The Group has
continued to develop and monitor its policies
and procedures during the year and its very
good record has been maintained. 
Current trading and outlook
The focus at the start of the new financial year
remains on maximising positive cash flows into the
business including achieving legal completions.
Already since 1st April 2009 over 50 open market
homes have been completed and handed over to
customers and this progress remains encouraging.
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
First quarter 2009 First quarter 2008 First quarter 2007
Number of new homes starts recorded in January to March of each year 
Source: NHBC statistics
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 12 Telford Homes Plc 2009 14
business & financial review
The Group will continue to work on securing
profitable contracts to construct affordable
housing on some of its sites with the added 
cash flow benefit to Telford Homes. This will be
substantially supported by the grant programme
with the HCA and the Group expects to draw up
to 60 per cent of its total allocation before 31st
March 2010. This will partly be utilised as payment
for land purchased from the Group’s development
partners. Alongside this, sales and marketing
activity will be concentrated on the completed
units at Queen Mary’s Gate, where we are
experiencing increased interest from potential
purchasers, and Romford before turning to other
sites again at the appropriate time and when
market conditions are right.
Across the country construction of new homes has
reached a new low for recent years with National
House-Building Council (“NHBC”) statistics for new
home starts at 16,200 for the first quarter of 2009
against 37,800 in the first quarter of 2008 and 53,700
for the same period in 2007. This will inevitably lead
to an increased shortage of new homes in the next
few years and Telford Homes will be ready to meet
the challenge of satisfying demand when the time
comes. East London will be at the forefront of
increasing the supply of new homes in London 
as regeneration of the area continues.
The Board is cautiously optimistic in its outlook due
to increased activity at Queen Mary’s Gate and
legal completions on pre-sold homes progressing
as well as could have been anticipated. The HCA
grant programme and the Group’s partnerships
with affordable housing providers will underpin the
performance of Telford Homes in the next few
years. The Board believes the business is now in a
strong position and is well placed to benefit from
a future improvement in market conditions.
Andrew Wiseman
Chief Executive
26th May 2009
Stadthaus N1 Casa E14
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 13
