 05     Telford Homes Plc 2009
chairman’s statement
“I am extremely
pleased that
Telford Homes is
able to report a
profit before tax of
£7.3 million before
exceptional items”
David Holland 
Chairman (Non-Executive)
I am extremely pleased that Telford Homes is
able to report a profit before tax of £7.3 million
before exceptional items and a profit before
tax of £4.3 million after exceptional items for 
the year to 31st March 2009.
Our focus over the last six months has been on
achieving legal completions on properties pre-
sold to the investor market, primarily during 2006
and 2007, in an environment where mortgage
availability is heavily restricted and confidence 
in the housing market and the wider economy
remains low. Despite this the sales and customer
service teams have been very successful in
working with each customer individually to
secure as many completions as possible.
In the past year Telford Homes has not
committed to new land purchases beyond its
existing partnerships with affordable housing
providers, nor has the Group commenced
construction on several sites that are ready for
development. The Group is working hard to
secure contracts to construct a number of its
developments entirely for affordable housing
and the £57 million grant programme that
Telford Homes has recently agreed with the
Homes and Communities Agency (“HCA”) is
assisting the Group in ensuring that profitable
construction work can continue. Together, the
grant programme and partnerships with housing
associations will ensure the Group plays a role in
continuing the supply of new housing at a time
when construction of new homes has slowed to
just 25 per cent of government targets.
I am also delighted to report that the excellent
relationships the Group has with each of the banks
financing Telford Homes have been critical in
concluding negotiations to renew or extend
existing facilities. Securing this debt finance
enables the Group to focus on generating
operational cash flows and reducing gearing
where appropriate.
Control of cash remains a priority over the coming
months as the Group continues to pursue legal
completions on pre-sold properties. Despite the
success to date the Board must remain cautious
of an increase in the rate of failed contracts. As 
a result the Board has concluded that it is not
appropriate to pay any dividend in relation to 
the year to 31st March 2009. Telford Homes
remains on a sound operational and financial
platform and depending on market conditions
the Board hopes and expects to be able to 
return to paying dividends in the near future.
David Holland
Chairman (Non-Executive)
26th May 2009
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 4 Telford Homes Plc 2009 06
business & financial review
Merchants’ Quarter E3
Telford RA Text  15/6/09  18:02  Page 5
