 tel FORD h OmeS Plc  
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 10
Review of the Year
ChIeF exe CUt IVe’S ReVIeW
MATCHMAKERS 
WHARF
E9  11
Review of the Year
www.telfordhomes.plc.uk
Telford Homes has exchanged contracts on  
460 open market properties in the year to  
31 March 2012, an increase of 25 per cent  
(2011: 368). As in previous years a significant 
proportion of these sales have been achieved 
ahead of build completion and there are now 
more than 400 pre-sold open market homes  
that will contribute to profit in the new financial 
year and beyond.
Open market completions
The number of open market properties legally 
completed in the year to 31 March 2012 
increased to 314 (2011: 281). This was ahead of 
the Board’s expectations mainly due to strong 
sales of finished homes in the last six months 
of the year. For the last two years the Group has 
been delivering a lower proportion of open market 
homes and has been achieving lower than normal 
margins due to the change in strategy required to 
protect the business during the downturn in the 
housing market.
The Board targeted margin improvement during 
the year and gross and operating profit margins 
are now moving in the right direction. The gross 
margin before interest charges and exceptional 
items has increased to 17.6 per cent (2011:  
15.1 per cent) and the operating margin before 
interest charges and exceptional items has 
increased to 6.2 per cent (2011: 5.2 per cent).  
As a result of higher than expected sales and 
margin improvements, the Group has reported 
profit before tax and exceptional items up  
20 per cent at £3.0 million (2011: £2.5 million).
All of the developments with a greater proportion 
of affordable housing than usual, and the open 
market homes achieving lower than expected 
sales prices as a result of the last recession, 
have now been substantially completed. As such 
it is anticipated that there will be an increased 
number of open market completions in the new 
financial year and that margins will return to more 
normal levels. In addition, of the open market 
homes expected to be handed over to customers 
in the year to 31 March 2013 over 65 per cent 
have already been sold. The Board has previously 
stated that it expects to report a substantial 
increase in pre-tax profits for the year to  
31 March 2013 and this remains the case.
l ondon housing market
The London housing market has continued 
to outperform the rest of the country and its 
fundamental strengths, in terms of being a  
major international centre for finance and 
business with a growing population and a lack 
of supply of new homes, suggest this is likely to 
continue. Not only is the population growing but 
projections from the Office of National Statistics 
indicate that 70 per cent of household growth in 
the next decade will be formed by single person 
households. The Mayor’s London Plan predicts 
that more than 30,000 new homes are required 
across the capital each year for the next  
20 years. The number of new build starts 
in London, recorded by the Department for 
Communities and Local Government, has been 
consistently below this and less than half of the 
required number for the last four years.
“ The Board has previously stated  
that it expects to report a substantial 
increase in pre-tax profits for the year 
to 31 March 2013 and this remains 
the case.”
Jon Di-Stefano, Chief Executive tel FORD h OmeS Plc  
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 12
Review of the Year
Whilst some commentators question these 
dynamics of supply and demand it is clear that, 
regardless of the inability of some purchasers to 
access mortgage finance, there is an increasing 
rental demand that is not being satisfied. As a 
result, rents in some parts of London rose by 
more than 10 per cent in 2011.
Open market sales
Where possible the Group will sell open market 
homes early in the development cycle, typically 
to investors. These investors are predominantly 
based overseas but there has also been demand 
from UK buyers, all of whom are attracted by 
rental yields of around six per cent.
In April and May of 2011 the Group secured 
186 sales at Avant-garde, E1 its joint venture 
development with The William Pears Group. Of 
these 62 were to UK buyers. Subsequently some 
smaller developments have secured sales in the 
Far East followed more recently by the launch of 
The Panoramic in Poplar, E14 which took place 
in Hong Kong and Singapore earlier this month. 
The Panoramic is a striking 20 storey tower in a 
strong location just to the north of Canary Wharf 
and, as a result, 44 of the 90 open market homes 
have already been sold. Completions are due in 
late 2013. Selling nearly half of this development 
at this stage is a great achievement given current 
economic concerns across Europe and confirms 
that London is still regarded as a safe haven for 
overseas investment.
Alongside these successful overseas marketing 
campaigns a significant proportion of the  
Group’s sales remain in the UK and particularly  
to owner-occupiers. Over 50 per cent of the  
open market homes completed in the year to 
31 March 2012 were sold to UK buyers. There 
have been strong sales recorded across all 
of the Group’s developments during the year, 
particularly at Bow Trinity, E3, Greenwich 
Creekside, SE8 and Matchmakers Wharf, E9 
amongst others. All nine homes, including 
detached houses, at Wingfield Mews in Hendon 
have been sold and completed in the year and  
at High Cedars in Wanstead 15 out of 24 homes 
are already sold three to four months ahead of 
build completion. Additionally, there is now just 
one finished apartment left for sale at Queen 
Mary’s Gate in Woodford compared to 70 at  
the start of the financial year.
Tight mortgage availability restricts demand 
from potential owner-occupiers and particularly 
first time buyers. Although there was some 
improvement in the last year, mortgage lending 
is still at very low levels and whilst this is 
unlikely to get much better in the short term, 
it seems equally unlikely that the situation will 
get any worse. Lenders continue to discriminate 
against new build properties by requiring higher 
deposits. The new Government backed 95 per 
cent mortgage product ‘NewBuy’ should  
assist some purchasers but the Group will 
monitor the level of success the scheme enjoys  
before deciding whether to join at a later date. 
ChIeF exe CUt IVe’S ReVIeW 13
Review of the Year
www.telfordhomes.plc.uk
HIGH CEDARS
WANSTEAD
Computer Generated Images tel FORD h OmeS Plc  
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 14
Review of the Year
ChIeF exe CUt IVe’S ReVIeW
THE PANORAMIC
E14
Computer Generated Images 15
Review of the Year
www.telfordhomes.plc.uk
The Board has ensured that the Group’s land 
acquisitions have been in locations that appeal 
to owner-occupiers with greater levels of equity 
available, sometimes sourced from extended 
family, and investors that are seeking a return  
on their equity and are funding their purchases  
at lower loan to value ratios.
Partnerships and affordable housing
Despite a return to constructing a more normal 
proportion of open market homes, affordable 
housing remains a significant and important  
part of the business. In the year to 31 March 2012 
the Group completed 542 affordable homes, 
handing them over to its various partners, and 
as a result has received the vast majority of its 
2008–2011 grant allocation from the Homes  
and Communities Agency (HCA). The HCA in 
London has now become part of the Greater 
London Authority (GLA) and the Group has 
secured a grant allocation in the new 2011–2015 
programme which will primarily assist the  
delivery of estate regeneration schemes  
expected to commence in the next few months.
The funding regime for affordable housing 
underwent significant change in the last year  
and this led to uncertainty in modelling the 
expected value of affordable homes for all 
concerned. As the sector has got to grips with 
the new regime, the Group has developed a clear 
understanding of the value of affordable homes 
to be delivered at various rent levels, including 
the new ‘affordable rent’ model where rents are 
charged at a proportion of market levels.  
In assessing these values, the Group has forged 
new relationships with some major housing 
associations keen to embrace the new funding 
model. This is an important aspect of remaining 
competitive in land acquisitions.
l and acquisition
During 2011 the Board reviewed its land 
acquisition strategy and as a result made some 
small changes to the Group’s area of operation. 
The focus of the Group’s land buying remains 
predominantly in East London but is now 
concentrated on the areas in and around the City 
and Canary Wharf where demand is stronger and 
less reliant on mortgage constrained buyers. 
These areas are also benefitting from transport 
improvements as a result of the Olympics, the 
£16 billion investment in Crossrail and new 
facilities such as the Westfield shopping centre  
in Stratford.
As a result of reducing the scope for acquisition 
in the outer boroughs of East London, the Board 
has widened its focus into adjoining areas of 
North and Central London where higher priced 
properties are in demand both from investors and 
owner-occupiers. The Group has purchased its 
first development site in Lambeth, near the Albert 
Embankment, to provide 101 homes in a new  
24 storey tower and also acquired its first site  
in the London Borough of Camden.
It is highly likely that this change in focus will 
increase the average price of the properties being 
developed by the Group in the next few years.  
In the year to 31 March 2012 the average price  
of the open market homes sold was £339,000,  
a significant increase on £259,000 last year.  tel FORD h OmeS Plc  
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 16
Review of the Year
ChIeF exe CUt IVe’S ReVIeW
AVANT-GARDE
E1 17
Review of the Year
www.telfordhomes.plc.uk
However this was heavily influenced by the  
sales achieved at Avant-garde which has a  
much higher price point and excluding this 
development the average price of the  
remaining sales was £266,000.
In total Telford Homes has agreed to acquire 
nearly £50 million of new land opportunities since 
securing a long term bank facility in March 2011. 
All of these acquisitions have been purchased 
on the basis of an appropriate expected profit 
margin and return on capital. The majority have a 
full planning consent or are contracted subject to 
achieving a satisfactory consent and all of them 
are on ‘brownfield’ land. The Group has, and 
will, purchase smaller sites without a planning 
consent where the risk of not achieving a consent 
is assessed to be very low. Despite excellent 
relationships within the Group’s area of operation 
the planning environment remains challenging 
and, whilst any attempts to improve this are 
welcome, it remains to be seen what impact the 
new ‘National Planning Policy Framework’ will 
have. Telford Homes has secured some significant 
planning consents in the last year, including 
estate regeneration schemes, and these can only 
be achieved by continuous engagement with both 
the local authority and the local community.
The development pipeline at 31 March 2012 
included 1,969 properties (2011: 1,904 
properties) of which 1,949 have a detailed 
planning consent. This total includes sites under 
option contracts within the control of the Group. 
There are 1,487 properties under construction 
with the remainder expected to commence 
within the next year. As the business returns to a 
more normal mix of open market and affordable 
housing, the balance of the pipeline is changing. 
The number of open market homes has increased 
to 1,677 compared to 1,338 last year. In total the 
development pipeline is expected to deliver more 
than £100 million of gross profit over the next 
four years.
Operations
The Board has always taken great pride in the 
quality of construction undertaken by Telford 
Homes and the level of customer service the 
Group provides. This year that quality was 
recognised with four NHBC ‘Pride in the Job’ 
awards and Greenwich Creekside went on to 
achieve the honour of winning the national 
NHBC ‘Pride in the Job Supreme Award’ in 
the multi-storey category. In addition, for the 
second successive year, more than 97 per cent 
of the Group’s customers would recommend 
Telford Homes to others and this demonstrates 
both the quality of the product and the service 
the customers receive at the point of sale, on 
handover and beyond.
Computer Generated Images tel FORD h OmeS Plc  
Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 18
Review of the Year
ChIeF exe CUt IVe’S ReVIeW
Despite the cost of changes in building 
regulations and the Group’s own efforts to 
remain as environmentally friendly as possible 
there have been some significant cost savings 
identified in the last year which are helping to 
improve margins both now and going forward. 
In addition the Health and Safety record of the 
Group was once again excellent this year with 
only a small number of accidents, well below  
the industry average.
It has been a year of some changes in terms of 
the Board of Telford Homes. I remain delighted 
to have been given the chance to build on the 
decade of success already behind us and to  
help take the Group forward as Chief Executive. 
I am particularly grateful to Andrew Wiseman for 
providing me the space to take on the challenge 
but equally I am pleased to have his support 
and continuing guidance as Executive Chairman. 
We have also welcomed Katie Rogers and David 
Campbell to the Board during the last year. Katie 
has built on her previous roles within Telford 
Homes to take full control of the financial side of 
the business and the key banking relationships. 
David has been a more recent appointment as 
Group Sales and Marketing Director but has 
already achieved some excellent results and has 
the necessary experience to build on the strong 
platform that his predecessor, Sheena Ellwood, 
left behind.
The Group has taken on an in-house legal 
department during the year and the Board 
has welcomed the contribution already made 
by Richard Ellis as Director of Legal Services, 
along with his team. The ethos of Telford Homes 
remains largely unchanged and employee 
retention rates are high due partly to a supportive 
environment but also to the quality and 
dedication of each employee.
Current trading and outlook
The strong sales performance in the year to 
31 March 2012 has continued into the first few 
months of the new financial year. Coupled with 
recent overseas success, both visitor numbers 
and reservation rates from UK buyers have 
been well ahead in the first few months of 2012 
compared to 2011.
The Board will continue to monitor the economic 
situation to be aware of any change in sentiment 
but the fundamental strengths of the London 
housing market and the Group’s forward sales 
position are reasons to be positive. East London 
will soon be firmly in the international spotlight 
and the longer term benefits of the Olympics 
are already evident in terms of transport 
infrastructure and new facilities. The Board is 
looking forward to another year of improving 
margins, increased profit levels and a major 
sporting event on the doorstep.
Jon Di-Stefano
Chief Executive
29 May 2012 19
Review of the Year
www.telfordhomes.plc.uk
BOW  
TRINITY
E3
Includes some Computer Generated Images
