 India
South Korea
China
UK
Poland
Slovakia       
Japan
Malaysia
Czech Republic
Hungary
US
T urkey
Thailand
Republic 
of Ireland
5
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
cH ieF exec Utive’s Q& a
These actions, combined with our core strengths – in selling  
food and everyday essentials, owning our own property and 
having a broad business base – are helping us to cope well with  
the effects of the downturn. We are also pleased with the early 
performance of Tesco Personal Finance under our ownership and 
with the converted Homever stores in South Korea. As a result,  
we have delivered a solid sales and profit performance, both in  
the UK and internationally, whilst continuing to invest in our long-
term strategy for growth. We have made a good start to the new 
financial year and I am confident Tesco will continue to make good 
progress even in the current global economic environment. 
Q: It has been a very tough time for the economy but the good 
news is it has been very sturdy growth for Tesco. How have you 
managed that?
A: it has been a very good year and mainly of course that is the dividend of 
having a long-term, consistent strategy. We’ve invested into this slowdown 
and that has given us good momentum through the recession. We are 
growing fast in our overseas countries, laying out networks of stores 
and we are still opening new space in the UK as well. in addition to that, 
of course, people have to eat – we’re blessed in that sense, so we don’t 
face the worst of the slowdown. We’ve also adjusted our business both in 
the UK and around the world to make sure that we offer better value 
and better ranges which keeps customers in the stores, and helps 
volume in the business. 
Q: You’re very much in the front line when it comes to knowing 
what customers are thinking, how they are behaving. Are there 
any signs that we have perhaps reached the bottom of the 
recession? What lies in store for the economy do you think?
A: it is very fluid at the moment – changes are happening over weeks,  
so i don’t think you can see any clear direction yet. What i would say is 
that it looks as if things are stabilising on the consumer front. in the UK 
the lower interest rates help, as do the lower fuel prices and energy  
prices, and coupled with the work that we have done in reducing food 
prices for customers – this helps rebuild confidence. in c entral europe  
the economies had a big decline early in the summer and the autumn  
of 2008 – that feels as if it has levelled out, which is encouraging. in asia  
it is too early to say. t heir decline came later with the destocking of the 
supply chain and so for them it really hit around December. t hese are 
strong economies and the destocking will end and we’ll start to get  
restocking in the pipeline which will help. 
Q: Priorities change during a recession – for business and 
customers alike. Is there a risk that the focus on green and 
corporate responsibility slips somewhat?
A: it is important that it doesn’t and it’s one of the reasons we lay  
such emphasis within t esco on our ‘s teering Wheel’ – our balanced 
scorecard – so that whatever is going on in the outside world, we  
keep focused on the things that matter long term. o f course price  
and trading is important at the moment, but there are big long-term 
objectives around community and the environment that we have got  
to stay committed to. t esco has to help customers change from mass 
consumption to green consumption. o n climate change, we’ve got to 
learn how to run this business on 80% less carbon. We have got great 
plans and we are making great progress. o f course it helps the business 
too – not wasting things is a very good habit at a time like this and one 
of the reasons our energy bills are down £100 million this year is because 
of all of the green initiatives we’ve been working on over several years. 
Q: Bearing in mind what you have seen in the US so far, are you 
pleased with the progress? 
A: i am, yes, because there’s lots to be pleased about. c learly nobody  
would have chosen to open into the scale of recession that we’ve seen 
there, which is particularly stiff in the Western United states, but the 
customers love the stores and they appeal right across the income range 
and the age range, and that bodes very well for their long-term appeal. 
Fresh & easy is more than just a niche retailer – it’s a new and different 
form of retailing. c ustomers obviously like the fresh foods and they  
like the own-brand products, but also are increasingly recognising the 
tremendous prices that are on offer and of course that is very important 
at the moment. t he operation is very good and it’s strong. We really 
have created the business that we set out to create in terms of the 
highest, freshest quality in the market at the best prices in the local 
neighbourhood. We are expanding the business at a good rate and 
morale is high. 
Q: What excites you most about the year ahead?
A: First of all we’re growing – and we’re serving more customers. t hey 
have needs; they are just different needs at a time like this. it’s what 
t esco is for – to stay close to customers and change as their needs 
change. t hat’s got to take a different form in different categories or in 
different parts of the world. it’s important you have strong, confident 
local leadership teams who take the responsibility to make those 
changes. i believe that is happening. if you look at our businesses – 
whether it’s non-food, financial services or in our international markets 
– we are growing strongly and we are growing market share. t here’s 
more that we have to do from place to place, but confidence is high. 
people know what they have to do and have the authority to do it. 
At a time when customers everywhere are 
feeling the economic strain, we are responding  
to their changing needs in all our markets by 
lowering prices, introducing more affordable 
products and offering even sharper promotions.
Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive
To see a full video interview go to
www.tesco.com/annualreport09/presentations
