 3
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial s tatements 2009
cH aiRman’s statement
I am pleased to report that despite the extraordinary economic 
environment we find ourselves in, Tesco has once again delivered 
a good set of results. This demonstrates that Tesco is coping well 
with the downturn. Despite the challenging conditions around 
the globe we have remained resilient and are growing as fast as 
any major international retailer.
We’ve made several new appointments to the t esco Board in the year, 
including l aurie mcilwee who takes on the role of g roup Finance 
Director, replacing andrew Higginson who has been appointed c hief 
executive of Retailing s ervices whilst retaining his responsibility for 
g roup s trategy. 
l aurie has been with t esco for nine years and has a very strong track-
record in both finance and operations. in his most recent role as 
Distribution Director l aurie was responsible for transforming our 
network – a tremendous achievement. His appointment shows once 
again how careful management succession planning works in t esco 
and i have every confidence he will do an outstanding job as our g roup 
Finance Director. 
We’ve also appointed three strong new n on-executive Directors in 
recent months – Jacqueline t ammenoms Bakker, a former Director 
g eneral at the ministry of t ransport in the n etherlands who has also 
held senior positions at mcKinsey & c o. and s hell, patrick c escau, 
former ceo of Unilever and Ken Hanna, c hairman of inchcape plc and 
former c Fo of c adbury. t hey bring with them a wealth of international, 
commercial and financial experience which will further strengthen our 
Board and support our plans for the long-term growth of the g roup.
Whilst the downturn has presented many challenges, it has also opened 
up some opportunities. We have made two very significant acquisitions 
this year.
We have acquired the remaining 50% of t esco personal Finance from 
Royal Bank of s cotland, a move which will enable us to develop an 
already very successful financial services offer towards our objective  
of becoming a full-service retail bank.
in s outh Korea we purchased 36 hypermarkets from e-land, mostly in 
s eoul, which has put us in a very strong position to challenge for market 
leadership in one of our most successful markets.
most of our growth has again been organic – we’ve opened nine  
million square feet of new space this year, excluding the acquisition in 
s outh Korea. in august we announced our entry into india, with plans 
to establish a cash & carry operation and a franchise agreement with 
t rent to support their s tar Bazaar hypermarkets. t his complements our 
entries into c hina and the United s tates, giving us access to another of 
the world’s most important economies.
Whilst many of our customers are focused on managing their shopping 
budgets, it is still important to them that we behave responsibly in the 
communities we serve. We now have a c ommunity plan for each 
country and earlier in the year we launched our c ommunity promises. 
t hese are: actively supporting local communities; buying and selling 
our products responsibly; caring for the environment; giving customers 
healthy choices; and creating good jobs and careers.
We’ve made some great progress this year – we’ve opened our 
greenest ever store at c heetham Hill in manchester, with a carbon 
footprint that is 70% smaller than a typical store – bringing our total 
number of green stores across the g roup to 37. t his will be a blueprint 
for how we build stores in the future.
o ur work to encourage customers to make greener decisions is going 
well. t hrough green c lubcard points we have reduced the number of 
single-use carrier bags in the UK by 50% and we are finding innovative 
ways to use green c lubcard elsewhere – for example by rewarding 
customers for cycling to our stores in s outh Korea.
i’m also pleased to announce that in the UK we have once again broken 
our ‘c harity of the Year’ record, raising a remarkable £6.2 million for 
marie c urie c ancer c are.
although it was impossible to predict the scale of the global economic 
slowdown, t esco has responded well by adjusting our business to this 
environment. o ur 470,000 strong team have done a fantastic job – 
staying close to customers and reacting quickly to their changing needs 
around the world.
i am confident that this hard work will continue as we press on with our 
long-term strategy which i believe will put us in an even stronger 
position once economies start to recover.
David Reid, Chairman
