 Chairman’s statement
We have a strong business model 
which has been bolstered by the 
addition of the RabMAb
®
 technology. 
I am pleased to report on another 
successful year for Abcam.
The year to 30 June 2013 was a 
transformational one for Abcam in that 
it included the first full year contributions 
from our acquisitions in the 2012 financial 
year of Epitomics and Ascent Scientific, 
which contributed to our 24.9% reported 
revenue growth to £122.2m.
We have frequently cautioned that we 
expected western markets to remain 
challenging during the year as governments 
address fiscal deficits. That was certainly the 
case, particularly in the US which represents 
our largest market. Despite this, we achieved 
underlying constant currency revenue growth 
(as defined in the CEO review) of an estimated 
11.8% and adjusted operating profit of 
£46.5m, before costs incurred during the 
year of £3.3m relating to the amortisation 
of the intangible assets arising on acquisitions 
and £0.4m of one-off integration costs.
The breadth and depth of our online 
catalogue are important business drivers 
and the enhancement of our product ranges 
has continued apace. We added a record 
29,102 products to our catalogue during 
the year, which at 30 June 2013 comprised 
121,558 products. By volume the main 
contributor to this growth has been our 
OEM supplier base but we have also 
exceeded our targets on new product 
additions, including RabMAbs
®
, from 
our own production facilities.
Our geographical expansion has also 
continued and we have achieved deeper 
penetration in Europe, for example through 
the successful switch to in-house channels 
of revenues that were previously generated 
by Epitomics through third party distributors. 
In China we have seen the full year effect 
of the benefits from having our bonded 
warehouse facility in Beijing.
With such an extensive catalogue and 
diverse customer base our website and 
e-commerce capabilities become ever 
more important tools for our business 
and we have continued our ongoing 
programme of investment in these areas.
Dividends
Whilst we continue to look for opportunities 
to increase shareholder value through external 
investments, we are committed to sharing 
the benefits of our strong cash flow directly 
with shareholders through the distribution 
of annual dividends. Our policy is to distribute 
an annual dividend of 40% of adjusted post-tax 
profit, after adding back costs of acquisition 
and amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangibles and one off integration costs. 
Consequently, after an interim dividend 
of 1.94 pence per share which was paid 
in April 2013, the Directors are recommending 
a 17.0% increase in the final dividend to 
5.10 pence per share. This would make 
an annual total of 7.04 pence, which is 
an increase of 16.4% on that paid last year. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in November 2013, the 
final dividend will be paid on 29 November 2013 
to shareholders on the register on 
8 November 2013.
Governance and the Board
The composition of our Board is kept under 
regular review since it is important that its 
members bring the appropriate skills required 
to improve the Company’ s effectiveness and 
performance. The Board also needs to 
provide clear leadership and demonstrate 
the values for which the Company stands.
I am pleased to report that the Board 
has functioned well in all respects during 
the year. It has provided knowledgeable 
and robust challenge and support to the 
Executive Directors, which has helped 
ensure that the Company’s business 
strategy is appropriately developed 
and well delivered.
There was one change to the Board 
early in the financial year when Professor 
Tony Kouzarides, a co-founder of the 
Company, retired at the AGM in October 2012. 
This was after 14 years of tremendous service 
during which he played a vital contribution 
to Abcam’ s success and for which we again 
offer him our sincerest thanks.
Looking ahead
We have cautioned for several years 
that pressures on research funding levels, 
particularly in our western markets, are a 
concern and could impact on our growth. 
We have also pointed out the strengths 
of our business which help mitigate this 
challenge. The success we have achieved 
in our 2012/13 results demonstrates the 
importance of our commitment to listening 
and responding to our customers’ needs, 
and builds on the excellent work done in 
the business since it started 15 years ago. 
Looking ahead we expect market conditions 
to remain challenging but we remain confident 
that we have the capabilities and plans in 
place for continued success. Trading since 
the year end has been in line with the 
Board’s expectations.
Abcam’s staff command widespread 
recognition for their knowledge and 
commitment. It is a privilege to be part 
of such a team and our thanks go to 
them once again for another great year.
Mike Redmond
Chairman
9 September 2013
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10
