 Chief executive officer’s review
 In this golden age of 
biology, our role in the 
centre of this quest for 
knowledge is stronger 
than ever and the 
opportunities for us 
more abundant than 
at any time previously.
Jonathan Milner
Chief Executive Officer
Key points in Jonathan’s review:
1
  RabMAb
®
 growth in full swing with over 5,000 in the portfolio by the end 
of June 2013. More on page 16 
2
  Robust growth despite pressures on funding for research.  
More on page 14 
3
  Focus on customers – introduced feedback loops to make the customer 
service even better. More on page 16 
4
  Massive increase in the number of products in the catalogue – 
over 29,000 added during the year in antibodies, kits, biochemicals, 
proteins and peptides. More on page 18 
5
  Identified growth opportunities from our core. More on page 19 
In 2012/13, Abcam has again performed 
well in a tough environment, with 
impressive growth in sales and profits. 
Our success is a reflection of our 
continued commitment to provide 
an outstanding value-added service 
to our customers.
The original idea for Abcam came to me 
when as a research scientist I began to 
appreciate how much the effectiveness 
and productivity of the work I was doing 
could be improved if I could access highly 
validated, relevant antibodies, with top 
quality customer support. In the early days 
we experimented with a number of business 
models but relatively quickly the strategy 
we are still pursuing 15 years later began 
to take shape. It continues to evolve but key 
to our success has been the single minded 
pursuit of its core features which are to:
 > drive hard the addition of relevant 
information on our products from 
as many sources as possible so that 
customers can validate them against 
their requirements; 
 > build strong relationships with the 
best OEM suppliers of the most 
relevant products;
 > ensure we are supplying high-quality 
products with world-class service and 
scientific support to help customers 
be more successful in their research;
 > complement the addition of products 
to the catalogue with our own in-house 
manufacturing capabilities;
 > build the industry leading website through 
which researchers have easy access to 
relevant products and associated data 
which is gathered and presented in the 
most innovative and creative ways;
 > Identify scientific areas which are of 
particular interest to our customer base 
and through the dedicated gathering 
and presentation of information and 
the hosting of conferences, seminars 
and webinars, to provide access to an 
unparalleled depth of data and the work 
of key opinion leaders in these areas;
 > add new product ranges which are 
attractive to our existing customer base, 
either in the same or adjacent segments 
in which we operate;
 > focus on understanding customer 
needs to help guide our product 
selection and presentation; and
 > extend geographic penetration where 
possible so that more users have 
access to our products.
This approach and the continued 
development of new and innovative 
ways to improve in each of these areas 
has served us well and has created a 
world-class business. The 2012/13 year 
was no different in that regard and it is 
very pleasing to see how well our team 
has executed on our plans and the positive 
customer reaction we have received.
Overview Strategic review Performance review Financial statements Corporate governance
11 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
