 04 THERATASE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Chairman’s Statement
The results for the year have met 
market expectations despite a business
environment that continues to remain
tough. Turnover and pre-tax profits for 
the year, which include the six month
contribution from our acquisition, were
£8.3m and £1.5m respectively (2003:
£6.3m and £2.2m). Basic earnings per
share were 3.02p (2003: 4.54p).
The Group’s major achievement this year
has been the successful acquisition and
integration of Seravac Biotech (Proprietary)
Limited and its subsidiary (“Seravac”).
Seravac was established in Cape Town in
1955 and is a significant supplier of
naturally derived enzymes to markets
including the diagnostic, pharmaceutical,
biotechnology, and research industries. 
This acquisition has consolidated the
Group’s existing position as one of the
world’s leading producers and suppliers of
diagnostic enzymes. It has also extended 
the range of products with therapeutic
potential. Jacobus de Kock, one of the
former vendors of Seravac, is now Executive
Chairman of Seravac and we are delighted
to welcome him onto the Theratase Board
as a Non-Executive Director.
The acquisition was funded by way of a
Placing and Open Offer, and through a new
senior debt facility. At the same time we
were able to redeem the Company’s
outstanding Preference shares. Through
this early redemption we have been able 
to maximise shareholder value, simplify 
the Company’s capital structure, and
manage more efficiently the maturity of 
our funding commitments.
The Group has also made progress with its
therapeutic projects. In February 2004, we
announced a new joint venture investment
in a Swedish biopharmaceutical company,
Applet, with Pharmalink, a Swedish
speciality pharmaceutical company.
Theratase and Pharmalink will each invest
approximately £0.5m in the joint venture,
contingent upon achieving development
milestones. At 30 September 2004,
£0.1m had already been invested by the
Group in the project. Applet will initially
develop therapeutics using the enzyme
hyaluronidase for use as an anti-oedema
and anti-inflammatory agent in the
prevention of transplant rejection. The
Group’s UK based subsidiary, Biozyme
Laboratories, will ultimately supply
hyaluronidase to the venture on the 
basis that development is successful. 
In January 2004, we agreed to make 
a further investment, in the form of a
€200,000 convertible loan in AM-Pharma
Holdings BV (“ AM-Pharma”), the Dutch 
joint venture founded in 2000 to develop
therapeutics and diagnostic treatments for
sepsis and microbial infections. Theratase
made the investment on 2 December 2004
following the successful achievement of the
required technical milestone by AM-Pharma.
This investment, which is part of a larger
fund raising initiative by AM-Pharma to raise
a minimum of €1.75m, is to fund extended
Phase IIa clinical trials using alkaline
phosphatase, supplied by Biozyme, in sepsis
patients. The commencement of these trials
was temporarily delayed by an ethical review
relating to patient informed consent which
have now been resolved. It is now
anticipated that trial results will be
available by the third quarter of 2005. 
An important technical milestone 
was achieved in May when ISTA
Pharmaceuticals announced that it had
received US FDA approval for the use of
Vitrase
®
as a spreading agent. Biozyme
produces the active pharmaceutical
ingredient, hyaluronidase, for Vitrase
®
. 
This approval enables ISTA to sell Vitrase
®
to ophthalmologists needing to facilitate
spreading of other drugs in the eye. 
This represents an important event for
Biozyme’s manufacturing facility, which was
audited successfully by the FDA in 2003.
On behalf of the Board I would like to
welcome our new employees in South
Africa to the Group and to thank them as
well as all of our UK and USA employees
for their efforts which are so important to
the continued success of the Group. 2004
has been a year of great change for the
Group with new opportunities introduced
and a broadening of our offerings. I look
forward to the challenges ahead in
improving profitability and seeking out
further appropriate opportunities.
Philip Percival
Chairman
18 January 2005
“The last 12 months have been a time of considerable
development and change for the Group. We have
succeeded in making major advances in progressing
the Group’s strategy which is to build a specialist
pharma/diagnostics company through organic growth,
appropriate synergistic acquisitions, and by investing 
in research and development through therapeutic joint
ventures. The Group’s operations have continued to be
profitable and cash generative.” 
Philip Percival, Chairman
