 “Achieving GMP 
compliance 
underlines 
our strategy 
of achieving 
maximum
value for 
shareholders”
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 THERATASE PLC 05
Biozyme
Diagnostic
Biozyme’s most important products
continue to be glucose oxidase and
alkaline phosphatase. Over many 
years Biozyme has established solid
relationships with some of the major
players in the diagnostics market
including Lifescan Europe (a subsidiary 
of Johnson & Johnson) which is one of
the main customers for glucose oxidase,
which is incorporated into home blood
glucose testing kits. This market is
growing at a rate of over 10% per 
annum due to the increasing incidence 
of diabetes worldwide. Alkaline
phosphatase, which is manufactured 
from bovine intestine, is a key enzyme
used extensively in immunodiagnostic
testing for the diagnosis of disease and
monitoring of physiological change. It is
also used in pathology and organ function
tests. During the last year considerable
efforts, alongside DEFRA (Department 
of the Environment, Farming, and Rural
Affairs) have been made to ensure that
our manufacture and supply of alkaline
phosphatase continues to meet the 
latest EU regulations. Other enzymes 
for which Biozyme holds a strong market
reputation include hyaluronidase,
ribonuclease and urease.
Therapeutic
The core business and the sales it
generates through the diagnostics 
market are critically important for 
the Group’s financial performance.
Additionally Biozyme and Seravac, 
the recently acquired South African
business, together represent a platform
for Theratase to grow into new markets. 
Biozyme has, through its excellent
production skills and product specification
profiles, enabled Theratase to access
exciting pharmaceutical product
development programmes which
incorporate enzymes produced by the
company as active pharmaceutical
intermediates (APIs). In this respect, the
recent rating of one of the manufacturing
units within Biozyme by the US FDA as
compliant with Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP) enables the in-house
expertise to be employed to maximum
advantage in the new development
projects in which the company is
engaged. GMP compliance is necessary
for the regulatory approval of therapeutic
products and/or their components.
Achieving GMP compliance underlines 
our strategy of achieving maximum value
for shareholders by exploiting Biozyme’s
core skills base and developing this along
ultimately more lucrative lines such as 
the production of substantially higher
margin enzymes as APIs.
The company is engaged in the following
API programmes exploiting the enzymes 
it produces for therapeutic applications.
Organ transplant rejection 
Theratase recently announced the
formation of a new joint venture, Applet
MBJ AB (“Applet”), established with the
Swedish speciality pharmaceutical
company, Pharmalink. Each company
plans to invest £0.5m in return for a
Chief Executive’s Review
“The acquisition of Seravac has broadened the Group’s
turnover, product, and manufacturing bases, and a 
new therapeutic programme has been commenced. 
The Group will be concentrating its efforts over the next
year on improving profitability at Seravac as well as
continuing to seek out appropriate therapeutic
opportunities to fuel growth.”
John Chesham, Chief Executive 06 THERATASE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Chief Executive’s Review continued
47.5% stake in the JV. Theratase will be
making its payments in four tranches over
a 14 month period, which commenced 
in February 2004, on the achievement 
of development-related milestones. 
At year end the Group had invested
£0.1m. Applet is exploring the use of
hyaluronidase for its potential to reduce
organ transplant rejection. Currently, there
is no effective strategy for controlling
rejection within the first 24 hours of
organs transplanted into patients. Applet
intends to take hyaluronidase through 
the pre-clinical stage and into phase I 
and II clinical trials. Intellectual property
generated through the work will be owned
by Applet. It is believed that hyaluronidase
could be used in all transplanted organs
(liver, kidney, heart, lung) prior to surgical
interventions to minimise the risk of acute
phase rejections. 
Ophthalmic applications
The Group supplies ISTA Pharmaceuticals
Inc. with hyaluronidase for use in its drug
Vitrase
®
. Vitrase
®
has been approved by
the US FDA for use as a spreading agent.
This approval means that for the first time
Biozyme will be manufacturing product
which will ultimately be used in a clinical
setting. During the year Biozyme entered
into a new three year supply agreement
with ISTA. In addition, Biozyme granted
ISTA a technology licence to manufacture
hyaluronidase. In consideration of this
ISTA has agreed to pay Biozyme a fee of
$1.1m in instalments payable over three
years, of which $368,000 had been
received in 2004. Whilst Biozyme has left
the door open for the negotiation of a
new contract it does not anticipate,
particularly if ISTA fails to get Vitrase
®
approved for vitreous haemorrhage,
supplying ISTA with product beyond
August 2007. This has clear benefits 
to Biozyme freeing up its GMP facility 
to pursue higher value projects. 
Sepsis and septic shock
AM-Pharma is a joint venture in which
Theratase holds approximately 9% of the
equity. The venture was established in
2001 to evaluate the role of alkaline
phosphatase in the treatment of sepsis
and septic shock. At 30 September 2004
Theratase had invested £1.0m in cash
and in-kind contributions, which has
assisted AM-Pharma’s clinical progress.
Alkaline phosphatase represents a potential
major market for AM-Pharma. In addition to
the equity stake the Group has an exclusive
supply agreement following eventual
approval of the product. The programme
has progressed well and has obtained
ethics committee approval to commence
an extended Phase IIa clinical trial in sepsis
patients. The Phase I and IIa data obtained
to date in the small number of healthy
volunteers indicate the product is safe and
well tolerated. The first small Phase IIa
study using simulated sepsis (created 
by giving volunteers low doses of LPS)
achieved its main aim of demonstrating 
the potential of alkaline phosphatase to
hold back the development of the early
symptoms of septic shock. It is expected
that clinical data from the Phase IIa study 
in 50–60 patients could be available 
in the second half of 2005.
Glucose Oxidase
Source: Apergillus niger
A highly purified salt free freeze dried powder with a specific activity (Grade GO3A) of
the order of 360U/mg protein (approx 270U/mg material). Amylase, Saccharase, and
Maltase <0.05%. Ratio of Glucose Oxidase to Catalase >2000.
Production
“Theratase’s 
marketing 
experience has
and will over 
time enhance
Seravac’s market
position and 
pricing power” Seravac
Seravac is an established name in the
diagnostic market and has an ongoing
established trading relationship with
Biozyme. It operates in similar areas to
Biozyme, being the production and sale 
of diagnostic and therapeutic enzymes.
Although Seravac and Biozyme share
some customers, there are few areas
where they are in direct competition.
Bringing the two businesses together 
has consolidated the Group’s position 
as a significant producer and supplier 
of diagnostic enzymes. 
Seravac operates from a large
manufacturing facility in Cape Town where 
it employs around 60 staff. It produces
approximately 40 different product lines, 
all of which are sold outside of South Africa
mainly via third party agency agreements.
Customers include some of the world’s
leading diagnostic and pharmaceutical
companies. Seravac is an approved
supplier for all its main customers and is
ISO 9001: 2000 compliant. The company
is currently in the process of obtaining
registration with the US FDA for Good
Manufacturing Practice.Seravac has
historically committed minimal resources 
to marketing and the Board believes that
the application of Theratase’s marketing
experience has and will over time enhance
Seravac’s market position and pricing
power. Due to the minimal customer
overlap, opportunities for cross-selling 
and joint marketing initiatives are being
identified, particularly in the USA, the most
important market for Biozyme. Seravac
manufactures pharmaceutical and
diagnostic enzymes. Its products may 
be split into two groups: animal derived
enzymes and plant derived enzymes.
Animal derived enzymes
This category includes various proteases,
which are enzymes extracted from bovine
pancreas, and hyaluronidase, which is 
an enzyme extracted from bovine or 
ovine testes. The main products are
deoxyribonuclease, chymotrypsin, 
and chymotrypsinogen which are used 
as anti-inflammatory agents as well as
digestive aids.
Plant derived enzymes
The main product in this category is
peroxidase which is extracted from
horseradish roots and is used in conjunction
with glucose oxidase to monitor glucose
levels in diabetics and as an indicator in
immunodiagnostics to monitor diseases.
Integration of Seravac
In the six months since acquisition
excellent progress has been made in
integrating Seravac into the Group. The
operations of Seravac USA have been
combined with those of Biozyme’s US
operations, and Seravac’s US office 
has been closed. Some management
changes have been made in Cape Town
to improve the management structure.
Joint marketing initiatives have
commenced and changes have been
made to technical/marketing websites 
to facilitate cross-selling. Seravac 
and Biozyme use similar production
techniques for extraction and purification
of enzymes and operational synergies
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 THERATASE PLC 07
Glucose Oxidase
Application
Used in the measurement of glucose in biosensors. Used in the measurement of
glucose in colorimetric assays in conjunction with Peroxidase. For use as an enzyme
label, e.g. in ELISA systems.
End User Benefits
Control and management at home of blood glucose levels in diabetics.
Application 08 THERATASE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Chief Executive’s Review continued
from the sharing of knowledge and
production processes are already being
seen. Assistance from Biozyme has
enabled Seravac’s technical staff to make
a significant improvement in production
yields of some of their most important
products. These yield enhancements 
have already assisted in achieving an
improvement in Seravac’s margins. 
Scope remains for further improvements
and joint programmes are continuing 
to address both yields and also other
opportunities for joint product ventures.
Opportunities to rationalise the production
and sale of some products and to
improve the utilisation of plant are being
progressed. In addition, there may be an
opportunity to enter into joint research
and development projects, particularly
in the area of therapeutics.
The acquisition has resulted in the
enlarged Group being less dependent 
on Biozyme’s current two main products,
alkaline phosphatase and glucose oxidase
as well as reducing Seravac’s reliance 
on pancreatic enzymes. The acquisition
has enhanced the Group’s strategy of
expanding into the therapeutic enzyme
market as Seravac has additional
therapeutic enzyme products to add 
to the Group’s existing portfolio.
Through a number of agency agreements,
Seravac has a presence in Far Eastern
markets which are being utilised to assist
Biozyme in selling into these areas.
Similarly Biozyme is assisting Seravac to
increase sales of its products in Europe.
The Board believes that Seravac has
several products which, with the benefit
of technological enhancement, have
significant growth potential, in particular,
through the sale of proteases as digestive
aids and food supplements into the Far
Eastern markets.
Corporate social responsibility
Theratase is committed to conducting
business in an ethical and socially
responsible manner. While we are
accountable to our shareholders, we 
take into account the interests of all our
stakeholders including our employees, 
our customers, and our suppliers as 
well as the local community, and the
environment in which we operate.
Employees and Health & Safety
The Group recognises that attracting,
retaining and motivating skilled people
is essential to its success. We are
committed to giving equal opportunities 
to all groups of people irrespective of
background. Our aim is to recruit the best
staff in the industry and we believe in
maximising every employee’s potential.
We encourage in-house training and
support staff in further studies where
appropriate.
Theratase takes its responsibility for
employee health and safety very seriously
and it is our policy to comply fully with
regulatory requirements and industry 
best practice.
DNA’se
Diagnostic & Indicator Enzymes, Seravac Biotech (Pty) Ltd
DNA’se is an enzyme derived from mammalian pancreas. Seravac’s purpose built
facility provides a capacity potential not matched by competitors. 
Preparation: From bovine pancreas
Form: A light brown, salt free, freeze-dried powder
Activity: >100 Kunitz units/mg material (blended to customer request)
Associated material: lactose
Store: –20°C 
Production
“Theratase is 
committed to
conducting 
business in 
an ethical 
and socially 
responsible 
manner” ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 THERATASE PLC 09
Environmental policy
The Group recognises the benefit of
adopting a sustainable development
approach to its operations, and will 
make reasonable endeavours to operate
within the broad concept of sustainable
development. The Board recognises and
accepts that concern for the environment
and all employees is an integral and
fundamental part of our corporate
business strategy. Biozyme is committed
to preventing pollution and is certified to
the Welsh Green Dragon Environmental
Standard. Processes have been set up
to identify and control potential pollution
threats from its activities and products.
This year at the Wales Environment
Awards, Biozyme won the prestigious
award for Waste Minimisation Best
Practice for small companies and was
shortlisted for the Business and
Biodiversity Award. Seravac takes great
care in managing the environmental
impact of its activities and waste 
products and has a proud history of
compliance to all statutory requirements.
During the past year Seravac has
embarked on a proactive environmental
management programme with the aim
of achieving ISO 14000 certification
within two years.
Charitable donations and political
contributions
The Group believes that the choice 
of charitable donations is a matter of
conscience for individual staff and
shareholders. The Group supports staff
who volunteer their services to charitable
activities. The Group’s policy is not to
make any donations or to otherwise
support any political party or organisation.
Financial review
Business performance
The Group is one of the few profitable
businesses in the listed diagnostic and
pharmaceutical sector. Turnover for the
year was £8.3m (2003: £6.3m), an
increase of 31.7%. Seravac contributed
£2.3m of turnover in the six months since
acquisition. The majority of sales by each
subsidiary are exported: at Biozyme 69%
of turnover is exported, mainly to North 
America and the EU; at Seravac exports
make up 100% of turnover mainly to
Europe and the Far East. During 2004, 
sales of alkaline phosphatase have 
been lower than in the previous year,
largely because 2003 was boosted 
by a significant order from a US based
customer who typically orders every
second year. Glucose oxidase sales,
particularly to Lifescan Europe, have
strengthened in line with expectations. 
Operating profit for the Group was £1.7m
(2003: £2.2m) of which £0.2m was
contributed by Seravac. Profit before tax
was £1.5m (2003: £2.2m) which was in
line with expectations. Profit after tax
amounted to £1.1m (2003: £1.5m).
Taxation
The tax charge on the operating results
was £0.5m for 2004 (2003: £0.7m)
giving an effective tax rate of 30% which
is the standard corporation tax rate in 
the UK. The additional tax costs relating
to our operations in the US have been
DNA’se
DNA’se is used in anti-inflammatory applications and in conjunction with fibrinolysin, 
to treat exudative lesions. The main markets are in the Far East and Europe.
•Used in the structural analysis of DNA.
•Treatment of empyema, meningitis, cystitis, acute mastitis, breast abscess,
tuberculous abscess, intra-peritoneal abscess, systemic lupus erythematosus. 
•HIV gene therapy.
•Allogenic or autologous hematopoetic cell transplantation. 
•Botulinum toxin screening in food products.
Application Chief Executive’s Review continued
10 THERATASE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
offset by savings generated following the
settlement of prior year tax provisions.
Earnings per share and dividend
Basic earnings per share for the year 
were 3.02p per share (2003: 4.54p).
During the year dividends were paid to
Preference shareholders amounting to
£870,000, of which £854,000 was
declared in 2003, and the remaining
£16,000 in 2004. The Preference 
shares were then redeemed in total 
at a discount of £237,000. Details of
these transactions can be found in 
the Directors’ Report on page 14.
In the short term the Board intends that
any future excess profits generated by 
the Group will be invested in order to 
grow the Group or to reduce borrowings.
However, as soon as it becomes
appropriate, the Board intends to adopt 
a progressive policy of paying dividends 
to Ordinary shareholders.
Capital and treasury
As part of the funding arrangements for 
the acquisition of Seravac and the final
redemption of the Preference shares, 
the Group completed a placing and open 
offer of Ordinary shares on 6 April 2004.
8,657,318 shares were placed with new
and existing shareholders at 51p raising
£3.9m net of expenses. In addition,
1,209,150 consideration shares were
issued to Good Hope Holdings (Proprietary)
Limited, a company controlled by 
Kobus de Kock.
The redemption of the Group’s Preference
shares has simplified the Group’s capital
structure, and enabled the Group to
introduce an appropriate level of gearing.
A new senior debt facility has been
negotiated, consisting of a seven year
term loan of £3m and a five year
revolving credit facility of up to £2m. 
At year end, £1.4m of the revolving credit
facility remained undrawn. The interest 
on the term loan is fixed at 7.055%. 
The interest rate on the revolving credit
facility is set at 2% above LIBOR. 
The Group had a net cash balance at year
end of £1.1m (2003: £2.0m). This cash
is used to provide day-to-day working
capital to the Group’s operations in the
UK and overseas. Net assets have
increased to £4.8m (2003: £2.5m).
The acquisition of Seravac has
considerably increased the Group’s risk
exposure to foreign currency movements.
Recognising the need to manage these
foreign exchange exposures, the Board
has introduced appropriate controls and
procedures. The Board’s current view is
that hedging strategies do not at present
offer good value for money but this is kept
under constant review.
The Group entered certain foreign
currency contracts immediately prior to
the acquisition of Seravac to manage 
the risk of movements in the South
African rand on the cost of repaying 
local borrowings. The net exchange gain
arising of £95,000 has been treated as 
a reduction in the borrowings acquired.
Peroxidase
Diagnostic & Indicator Enzymes, Seravac Biotech (Pty) Ltd
Product code: 161-451
Preparation: From horseradish root
Form: A brown to red-brown, salt-free, freeze-dried powder 
Activity: >250 Guaiacol units/mg material 
Purity: RZ>3.0 
Store: –20
O
C
Production
“The enlarged
Group has the
resources to
improve its 
position as a
world leader” ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 THERATASE PLC 11
Much of the Group’s invoicing is in US
dollars and the recent weaknesses of 
the dollar against the rand is therefore 
of continuing concern. The average US
dollar rate this year was 12.2% less
favourable than in the previous year.
Cash flow
Net cash inflow from operating activities
was £0.9m (2003: £2.1m). Both net
cash inflow and debtors at year end 
have been affected by the timing of 
sales which were heavily skewed 
towards the end of the financial year. 
Post balance sheet events
On 2 December 2004, the Company made
a further investment in AM-Pharma in the
form of a convertible loan of €200,000.
Accounting policies
The Group will be required to adopt
International Accounting Standards in 
the reporting of the consolidated accounts
for the year ended 30 September 2006.
Implementing these changes will be a
significant exercise, and as a result, we
are undertaking a careful review of the
new requirements.
Outlook
Much has been achieved in 2004 to
implement the Group’s corporate strategy
and to build a solid platform to continue
to develop and grow the enlarged
business. The acquisition of Seravac 
has introduced new opportunities and
broadened the Group’s turnover, product,
and manufacturing bases. In addition, 
a new therapeutic programme has
commenced. The Group will be
concentrating its efforts over the
next year on improving profitability 
at Seravac as well as continuing to 
seek out appropriate opportunities 
within therapeutics to fuel growth.
The Board believes that the coming year
will be challenging and exciting and that
the enlarged Group has the resources to
improve its position as a world leader in
its market and that overall prospects
remain good.
John Chesham
Chief Executive
18 January 2005
Peroxidase
Occurrence
Peroxidase is present in most plant cells and has also been isolated from leucocytes, fig
sap, yeast and milk. Seven isoenzymes have been extensively purified from horseradish.
Applications
• In conjunction with glucose oxidase, it is used to monitor glucose levels in diabetic
patients. 
• A general indicator enzyme which can be used in neural mapping and in
immunodiagnostics for the detection of numerous diseases.
Application
