 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 10
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
The ﬁrst 365 days 
of T ransformation
The momentum we have 
created in the ﬁrst 365 days 
will continue now into year 
two with even greater focus 
and commitment from the 
team at Thomas Cook.
This is an exciting journey 
as we build for the future.
The travel industry is changing at pace as consumers require greater 
ﬂexibility, greater choice and products personalised to meet their needs. 
Technology offers so much opportunity for customers to connect in many 
different ways and the Transformation of Thomas Cook will combine the 
“high tech” innovation that customers need with the “high touch” trusted, 
personal service at the heart of the world’s oldest travel brand.
The Thomas Cook Group is on a Transformation journey, and here I answer 
some of the questions I have been asked about my reﬂections on the ﬁrst 
365 days of that Transformation, as we now look forward to year two of 
our journey. 
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Q: What have been your 
highlights of the past year ?
A: It’s been a year of signiﬁcant milestones 
for the Group, each one highly impactful, 
and an important next step on the journey. 
Our immediate priorities were to stabilise the 
business and create a solid foundation from 
which we could begin to deliver our newly 
outlined strategy for proﬁtable growth.
At the same time we had to re-instil a strong 
sense of belief both internally and externally 
with our key stakeholder groups that we are 
focused on the right activities to return this 
amazing brand to strength, and we had to 
deliver against our commitments. In the ﬁrst 
365 days of the Transformation of Thomas 
Cook we have effected a rigorous and rapid 
turnaround of the business and set out a 
robust strategy of sustainable proﬁtable 
growth. This pace will continue into the year 
ahead as we gain momentum, developing a 
high performance culture and a methodology 
to further professionalise the organisation.
We conducted one of the most far-reaching 
surveys of the leisure travel market in our 
early work, seeking the opinions of 18,000 
consumers (including both Thomas Cook 
customers and non-customers) across our 
key source markets of the UK, Germany and 
Sweden. The ﬁndings were invaluable as we 
began to develop our strategy for proﬁtable 
growth based on facts and data to ensure our 
new strategic focus would deliver products and 
services to meet the needs of today’s leisure 
traveller to inspire their personal journeys. 
Our strategy for proﬁtable growth gradually 
took shape, and on 1 3 March we announced 
our plans to the capital markets, on 27 June 
we successfully completed our £1.6 billion 
recapitalisation and on 1 October 201 3, 
we announced our uniﬁed brand strategy. 
Our disposals programme continues to gain 
momentum, in line with the targets we have 
set ourselves. All of our strategic commitments 
are underpinned by a strict timeline for 
delivery with robust KPIs and ﬁnancial targets. 
Delivering against our commitments is a vital 
part of the re-energising of Thomas Cook.
We have already made strong progress against 
many of the metrics, and where progress has 
been faster than expected, notably in the 
areas of new product development, our cost 
out and proﬁt improvement drive and also 
cash conversion, the targets have now been 
increased, as you will see on page 20.
Exceeding expectations and developing 
a methodology to further professionalise 
the business is vital if we are to restore 
shareholder conﬁdence and once again take a 
leadership role in shaping the future of travel.
At the end of the ﬁrst 365 days, underlying 
revenue had grown 1.3%, despite capacity 
reductions, costs are down 3%, and 
underlying EBIT is up 49% to £263 million. 
Free cash ﬂow, an important driver in the 
continuing deleverage of the business, is up 
£1 56 million. Net debt has almost halved 
and loan maturities have been extended. 
In order to drive the change that the business 
required, I needed to strengthen the leadership 
team and invest time and energy to ensure 
we have the right skills in place to lead the 
Transformation. We needed to change the 
culture – to put the needs of our customers 
and people back at the heart of the business. 
We have made real progress already in our 
quest to build a culture of high performance 
and accountability, stripping away layers 
of management between my Executive 
team and the customer, all consistent with 
our focus to take out cost and drive a leaner 
organisation, as more and more customers 
use the web to research and purchase.
One third of the senior leadership team are 
long-standing members of the Thomas 
Cook leadership team, bringing relevant 
knowledge and perspective, one third were 
promoted from within as strong talent and 
one third bought in from outside to bring 
specialist skills, expertise and discipline to 
the organisation. Travel has historically been 
quite siloed and there is so much that can 
be learned from other industries, providing 
opportunity for progress – creating a truly 
differentiated offering for customers and 
business partners alike. Internally we have 
a saying that we will be “lavish with our 
customers and lean with ourselves”.
The strengthened leadership team have been 
critical to the success to date, as we build an 
effective organisation. We will continue to 
invest in their development, whilst attracting 
new talent, as required. The formation of my 
new Executive Committee will ensure that 
we continue to drive our strategic progress 
with rigour, breaking down silos and working 
across the Group where appropriate whilst 
maintaining close local contact with our 
customers and their speciﬁc market needs. 
We are driving a change of culture, pace and 
professionalism with our Code of Conduct 
and Values, now embedded throughout 
the business, helping to guide how we 
work. The formation of my ExCo will help 
to streamline decision making and ensure 
we act as one Group, whilst aligning our 
leadership responsibilities even more robustly 
to the strategy to ensure that our next 365 
days of Transformation deliver results in the 
same way as the ﬁrst.
In a year of ﬁrsts we have also invested in 
our people. As part of the cost out drive we 
had to take out a number of roles – always 
regrettable but also essential if we were 
to secure the business for the long term, 
encouraging us to work smarter and reducing 
costly admin and unnecessary processes, 
that did not beneﬁt our customers or 
shareholders. Those who left were treated 
with dignity and respect and given support 
to help them take the next steps in their 
career. Through the consultation process 
over 800 employees, originally placed at risk 
were redeployed in new roles, keeping their 
knowledge and skills in the business for the 
beneﬁt of customers and shareholders.
Successfully completed recapitalisation 
£1 .6bn
Revenue up by
1.3 %
Costs down by
3%
Free cash ﬂow up by
£1 5 6m Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 12
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Q: Are you where you thought 
you would be at this stage?
A: Although overall we are ahead of where 
we thought we would be at this stage, 
the implementation of our strategy for 
sustainable proﬁtable growth has only just 
begun. We have much still to do, but I believe 
the infrastructure, foundations and culture 
we are building now are preparing us well to 
deliver our ambitious plans.
No one at Thomas Cook is complacent and, 
whilst our ﬁrst 365 days have delivered strong 
results in many areas, we are focused on 
continuous improvement and the long-term 
success of the Group. With the systemised 
approach to business, products, people and 
processes we are developing, I know we can 
deliver signiﬁcantly more. Reﬂecting this, we 
are increasing three of our key 201 5 targets: 
new product revenue, Wave 1 cost out and 
proﬁt improvement and cash conversion. 
In addition, we have importantly announced 
our Wave 2 cost out and proﬁt improvement 
programme, which is targeted to deliver 
improvement of the same magnitude of 
Wave 1 by 201 8. 
Listening to our customers and better 
understanding their needs is central as we 
continue to develop our products, systems 
and services. We are striving for differentiated 
products to give our customers the widest 
and most ﬂexible range of destinations, best 
able to meet their needs – all underpinned 
by the Thomas Cook assurance of safety 
and quality to give peace of mind that our 
customers can trust. Our holiday experiences 
need to be as individual as the people who 
book them – we want to be there for our 
customers however, whenever and wherever 
they need us. Our new SunConnect concept 
has been well received as just one example 
of new product that offers customers, 
and particularly families, a fully connected 
holiday experience.
We have some exciting innovations in 
the pipeline to drive our online customer 
experience – through enhanced web, 
improved search functionality and leading 
edge apps. We have committed 50% of 
our Group-wide sales will be transacted via 
the web by 201 5, although in some parts of 
the business we have already exceeded this 
target. We have much to deliver in this area, 
which continues to be an area of strategic 
investment as we bring in digital talent to 
support our progress. Our Digital Advisory 
Board, comprising external experts in their 
ﬁeld helps to ensure we keep abreast of the 
latest developments in all sectors, continue 
to help drive the pace of change in this area.
The ﬁrst 365 days of our journey are behind 
us and we are focused on new deliverables, 
exacting targets and operationalising the 
Thomas Cook Business System to deliver even 
greater beneﬁts to our business, the industry 
and all of our stakeholders. Every person 
in the business has clear objectives and 
performance measures as we each take our 
part in driving the Transformation of Thomas 
Cook and delivering on our commitments. 
I think my current frame of mind can best 
be described as positively dissatisﬁed and 
looking forward to the next 365 days.
Q: What is the signiﬁcance 
of Sunny Heart?
A: A huge part of our journey is centred 
around our employees and using their passion 
for our customers to make a difference to 
each and every personal journey.
Ours is the oldest, and arguably the best 
loved name in leisure travel. With 1 72 years 
of proud tradition behind us, we are a brand 
that customers trust. We must be worthy 
and deserving of that trust.
When I arrived, the Group was quite siloed in 
its thinking and approach. Customers were 
confused and not always clear which parts 
of their journey were being delivered by 
Thomas Cook. Best practice wasn’t being 
shared widely and there was duplicated 
activity and cost. Customers were missing 
out. Radically reducing our 85 brand labels 
was a clear priority – eliminating cost and 
confusion. We have now simpliﬁed these 
85 labels to just 30, unifying our brands 
under one common symbol – our new 
Sunny Heart. Simplifying the customer 
experience the Sunny Heart highlights the 
combined strengths of the Group in the 
minds of our customers, and will become 
synonymous with personalised and trusted 
holiday experiences and our high tech, high 
touch delivery. Our brand is underpinned 
by the Thomas Cook Quality Assurance, 
our international scale and market leading 
purchasing power – all vital if we are to deliver 
for our customers again and again. 
When I started at Thomas Cook, I asked 
our teams globally to share with me their 
thoughts. 8,000 of them did – candid, 
actionable feedback from the frontline. 
In September 201 3, we conducted our 
ﬁrst all employee engagement survey 
to sense check our progress with all of 
our employees. In a service business like 
Thomas Cook, where customers trust us to 
inspire and deliver their personal journeys, 
engaged employees who believe in our end 
goal are vital to customer satisfaction and 
loyalty – and ultimately our ability to deliver 
proﬁtable growth . Engaging our employees 
in the Transformation has been vital and 
we have worked hard to communicate with 
them at every stage – honestly sharing our 
position to help them understand the tough 
decisions we were making. They have been 
fantastic – united as one team to deliver 
for our customers.
Our own teams helped develop our new 
Values and Ways of Working. With integrity 
at our core we also have a Code of Conduct, 
which allows us to deliver the values of our 
new unifying brand – the Sunny Heart which 
our employees have embraced so positively 
as a real symbol that Thomas Cook is 
changing and is different.
We are actively recognising and celebrating 
individual contributions and through 
our Transformer programme involving 
some of our many talented individuals in 
spreading the messages of transformation. 
Communication is vital to a successful 
Transformation and we work hard to convey 
the messages of our progress across the 
organisation through many different 
mediums, including our intranet, which 
will enable real social collaboration and 
the sharing of best practice Group-wide.
In summary , so many highlights but still 
much more to do.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A continued Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
As already shared, during the development 
of our strategy for proﬁtable growth we 
undertook one of the largest traveller surveys 
of recent years. We have learned through the 
survey the importance of customer attitude 
in determining holiday preferences and our 
tailoring our product portfolio to ensure 
that we meet individual customer needs. 
Speciﬁcally, we have segmented our product 
portfolio into four areas: concept hotels, 
partnership hotels, hotels from our brochures 
and ﬂexible hotels available online, including 
hotels4u.com that has recently broadened its 
offer to appeal not just to business but also to 
retail customers. Developing these plans for 
the future are high on our list of ‘what’s next’ 
– with opportunity to increase the number 
of visitors to all product categories. 
In FY1 3 over 500,000 customers enjoyed 
our 93 exclusive concept hotels, which are 
operated under our own brands, Sentido, 
Sunwing, Sunprime and Smartline. 
These hotels provide our customers with a 
consistent experience based on a deﬁned 
list of features that meet their needs 
wherever they go on holiday. These are 
further categorised according to whether 
their customer focus is adult, couple or 
family orientated.
Our other exclusive hotels are partnership 
hotels. In FY1 3 over 800,000 customers 
enjoyed these hotels, which are owned 
by world leading hoteliers, with whom we 
have close relationships and who have 
strong reputations for providing consistently 
high quality service, in keeping with our 
commitment to assurance. 
Our third segment consists of hotels from 
our brochures, providing customers with 
a quality range of accommodation and 
style, as well as more choice across a wide 
range of destinations. In FY1 3 8.8 million 
customers enjoyed staying at these hotels.
Finally, we also offer a signiﬁcant range 
of ﬂexible hotels that are available 
online, on a real-time basis via the web 
to allow the greatest level of ﬂexibility. 
Supported by encouraging trials we see 
potential to attract new customers who 
like to book online and typically later than 
many others. 
An expensive brand roll-out would have 
been inappropriate for where we are on 
our Transformation journey. Instead we will 
rebrand as we replace. Our employees are 
fully engaged in the change, and we wanted 
them to embrace the heart and start to 
live the difference internally ﬁrst. With our 
employees engaged, we believe that all those 
who come into contact with us will sense the 
difference and know that they are dealing 
with a new, re-energised Thomas Cook.
Our new brand continues to engage and 
inspire our teams and almost daily I am sent 
photographs like these of people right across 
the Group embracing the heart. For many 
this has been the most visible sign of our 
Transformation and they’re embracing 
the change with renewed commitment 
and vigour.
Q: What’s next for Thomas Cook?
A: Our journey to build long-term sustainable 
value at Thomas Cook continues, with 
proﬁtable growth at the heart of all we do. 
Sustaining our Transformation and delivering 
for our customers and shareholders again 
and again will only be achieved if we have 
the best people, best products, best systems 
and best processes, all underpinned by the 
very best practices from all industries, not just 
our own. We are focused on over-delivering 
and we’ve increased three of our FY1 5 key 
performance targets already, reﬂecting better 
progress than originally anticipated in the 
areas of new product revenue, Wave 1 cost 
out and our cash conversion. 
With customer need ﬁrmly back at the heart 
of everything we do, we will be aiming to 
further professionalise the “high tech, high 
touch” delivery of our trusted, personalised 
products , supported by a lean and innovative 
operating system, speciﬁcally designed for 
our needs.
To support this, we have created a disciplined 
operating model called “The Thomas Cook 
Business System”. 
The process of embedding this methodology 
into the organisation has begun and 
is already helping to drive a culture of 
continuous improvement across the Group. 
This approach will be key as we shape the 
future of the Group and drive the second year 
of our Transformation. 
We will continue to strengthen the leadership 
team with global executives who have a track 
record for delivering results, and under my 
leadership the newly formed ExCo will be 
driving greater alignment in all parts of the 
strategy, creating real opportunity to reduce 
cost and duplication and deliver greater 
synergy as we strive to work more effectively.
Proﬁtable growth 
through trusted, 
personalised 
products
Thomas Cook Business System
Customers  
at the heart
High Tech, 
High Touch:  
a digital business
Top-to-bottom 
leadership 
and relentless 
performance 
management
Efficient structures, 
systems and 
processes through 
lean & innovation Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
Our strategy is focused on continuing to 
shift more of the total investment spend 
into those hotels where we have the highest 
returns. These are areas of strong strategic 
investment for the future and we expect to 
increase our offering of exclusive partnership 
and concept hotels to 800 by FY1 7 , with over 
3.5 million guests.
Our product growth ambitions also include a 
relentless pursuit to innovate more products, 
such as our new “SunConnect” concept, 
developed as a direct response to customer 
feedback through our extensive traveller 
survey. Initial response has been good.
We are continuing to diversify beyond 
our traditional Sun and Beach Products, 
developing our portfolio of city hotels across 
our Group. We have already doubled our 
inventory in Central Europe and plan to more 
than double the number of city hotels we 
offer by FY1 5. 
We are also signiﬁcantly expanding our 
Winter Sun offering, with 25% of our planned 
growth coming from the addition of new 
destinations and the expansion of existing 
destinations. We have recently added seven 
new destinations to our offer including 
St Lucia, Barbados and Antigua and plan 
further additions in time for next winter.
We have increased our target for new product 
revenues, following a good performance in 
the year. Our target now is to achieve new 
product revenue of £700 million by FY1 5 
and by FY1 7 , we expected to have increased 
incremental product revenue growth 
further to more than £1.2 billion.
To underpin all our products right across 
the Group and continue to deliver on the 
trust that our customers place with us, 
when they book a holiday, we are rolling 
out an extensive and thorough assurance 
programme. This involves a continuous audit 
of key quality measures including health and 
safety, customer service and overall quality 
excellence. This work includes extensive 
customer surveys that will allow us to 
determine what really matters to customers 
which we can then reinvest into our ongoing 
product development. Our survey told us this 
matters to consumers. 
As we build an omni-channel approach 
that ensures customers can interact with 
us however they want, we will continue 
to develop our digital footprint. We have 
invested signiﬁcant resource and time in 
improving our web presence and this will 
continue as we move all markets away from 
the multiple platforms of the past onto 
one web platform. This will improve search 
capability and consistency, allowing us to 
better sort and organise our products to 
better meet customer requirements, as we 
maximise the product range we can offer to 
every customer in every market. We expect 
that web penetration will accelerate once all 
our businesses are on one platform, reaching 
over 50% by 201 5. We’re driving innovation 
and have many exciting new information 
and products in development to answer 
customer questions quickly and effectively. 
Through our new “destination discovery” 
system, in partnership with Triporati we can 
help customers narrow the range of choices 
and then, to transfer their own shortlist of 
selections to their personal devices through 
our new “Dream Capture” to allow them to 
peruse and make their ﬁnal selection in their 
own homes with their travelling companions. 
We are looking to add digital value to every 
part of the customer journey and many 
more innovations will follow as we look to a 
digital future, where every leader in our senior 
team has web targets embedded in their 
performance criteria.
In line with our new operating methodology, 
“The Thomas Cook Business System”, we plan 
to deliver further beneﬁts from enhanced 
margin management, more efficient use of 
shared services and a leaner organisational 
design. These will be delivered under a 
Wave 2 cost out and proﬁt improvement 
programme, which will be in addition to the 
Wave 1 work already underway to deliver 
£440 million of cost out by FY1 5.
Our new Wave 2 cost out and proﬁt 
improvement initiatives will drive beneﬁts 
in gross margin as well as reduce costs 
through lower overheads. Gross margin 
beneﬁts are expected to arise from further 
yield management and working more 
closely together as a Group – whether 
by adopting one system, one inventory 
and one web across our markets, and the 
scale beneﬁts that come from using our 
combined purchasing power to procure 
accommodation on a centralised basis, 
reducing expense further by growing online 
sales of our own branded products.
As customers increasingly purchase through 
our online channels, we will have the chance 
to further centralise activity, reducing cost, 
improving service and consistency, through 
more lean organisational structures and 
reduced “back-room” expenses.
We believe the total Wave 2 beneﬁts will be 
of a similar magnitude to those identiﬁed 
through Wave 1 and will be achieved by FY18. 
Over the next six months, we will continue to 
develop the plan as we reﬁne and develop 
our plans.
All of these plans will only be possible by 
employing the right people and so, we will 
continue to focus on attracting, developing 
and retaining the very best people – people 
who are as excited as we are by the Thomas 
Cook Transformation journey, as we continue 
to professionalise our business and proﬁtably 
grow for the beneﬁt of all of our stakeholders.
The momentum we have created in the ﬁrst 
365 days will continue now into year two with 
even greater focus and commitment from 
the team at Thomas Cook.
This is an exciting journey as we build 
for the future.
Harriet Green
Group Chief Executive Officer
27 November 201 3
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A continued Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
Trusted
Brand uniﬁcation
On 1 October 201 3, the Company announced the 
uniﬁcation of its brands and market activity under 
one common symbol the Sunny Heart. 
Simplifying the brand proposition is a key element in the Group’s proﬁtable growth strategy, building on the 
Group’s already strong and trusted brand heritage and projecting its Transformation into a single business. 
The Group’s many leading brands, such as Neckermann in Europe, Ving in Sweden and Condor in Germany 
will all connect with the Sunny Heart in different ways. This is a major milestone in the Transformation of 
the Group, as it continues to develop its product offering and focus on an omni-channel approach.
Brand architecture
Corporate brand
Master brand
Aligned brands
Endorsed brands
Standalone brands
