 Directors’ Report
Chairman’s statement
 www.thomascookgroup.com
Dr Thomas Middelhoff
Chairman Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 008 3
Performance review
The new Group’s ﬁrst full year since the
merger can best be characterised as one
in which we delivered strong ﬁnancial
performance and laid very ﬁrm foundations
for the future. We have completed the
merger and signiﬁcantly outperformed
against synergy expectations; developed
a credible strategy against which we have
made real progress; and actively managed
our business to generate industry-leading
margins and create real shareholder value.
All of this has been achieved despite the
worsening economic conditions that have
emerged since the beginning of the year.
Our experienced management team, under
the leadership of Manny Fontenla-Novoa,
anticipated the potential impact on our
businesses and has taken swift and effective
action to ensure we sustain our operational
and ﬁnancial strength in the current ﬁnancial
year and beyond.
We will continue to maximise the advantages
we have created and developed. These
include a strong ﬁnancial position, a trusted
brand portfolio and the proven ability, within
our ﬂexible model, to manage our businesses
so that we meet the needs of our customers
in an ever changing environment.
Dividend
The Board’s dividend recommendation
reﬂects Thomas Cook’s ﬁnancial achievement,
the strength of our business model and our
commitment to delivering value to
shareholders.
Although the statutory ﬁnancial period
ended 30 September 008 is an eleven
month period, the Board has assessed the
total dividend on the basis of the pro forma
twelve month period ended 30 September
008. As a result, the Board is recommending
a ﬁnal dividend of 6.5 pence per share
which, when combined with the interim
dividend of 3.5 pence per share paid on
5 September 008, makes a total dividend
for the year of 9.75 pence per share. This
represents a pay-out of 41% of proﬁt after
tax before exceptional items. This is in line
with our policy, which remains to increase
dividends progressively, paying between
40% and 50% of adjusted earnings by way
of dividend.
Board changes
Changes to the Board during the period
included the appointment of Jürgen Büser
as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer from 1 July 008.
This followed the decision of Ludger Heuberg
to step down from the Board for personal
reasons and family commitments. We
are pleased that he has remained with the
Group in the role of Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
for Continental Europe.
Angus Porter resigned from the Board as
a Non-Executive Director on 5 April 008
following his appointment as Group Strategy
Director, a position he took up on  June 008.
Nigel Northridge joined the Board as an
Independent Non-Executive Director with
effect from 1 August 008. He is a member
of both the Management Development
& Remuneration Committee and the
Nominations Committee.
With effect from  December 008, Peter
Diesch will be stepping down from the
Board and will be replaced as an Arcandor
AG nominated Non-Executive Director by
Dr Karl-Gerhard Eick. I would like to thank
Peter for his contribution to the deliberations
of the Board since the merger.
Executive team
I, and my fellow Board members, would once
again like to express conﬁdence in the Group’s
executive team, led by Manny Fontenla-Novoa.
He has engaged some of the most talented
people in the industry and, together, they have
continuously demonstrated their ability to lead
the organisation in a challenging marketplace.
They have exceeded expectations across a
range of metrics, delivering industry-leading
margins, making huge progress against our
strategic agenda, and further strengthening
the Thomas Cook brand.
Employees
We are also very proud of our people at all
levels within the Group. They live our Company
values and continually strive to understand
the requirements of our customers and
deliver their travel and holiday dreams. We
believe their skills, diversity and experience
are key to our ﬂexible approach and to our
continued success.
Outlook
The success Manny and the executive team
have had in delivering a highly demanding
programme during the past year gives
my fellow Board members and me every
conﬁdence that they will rise again to
the challenges of the year ahead.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
The new Group’s ﬁrst full year since the merger can best be
characterised as one in which we delivered strong ﬁnancial
performance and laid very ﬁrm foundations for the future.
Dr Thomas Middelhoff
Chairman
19 December 008
