 6 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s statement 
RESPONDING 
TO THE 
CHALLENGE
We recognised at the outset that 
2009/10 would be demanding 
given the uncertain economic 
outlook and, accordingly, we 
took early action to deal with the 
challenges. While we made good 
progress in many of our operating 
segments and delivered a strong 
improvement in operating cash 
ﬂ ow, trading in the UK was even 
tougher than anticipated. I am 
conﬁ dent that the actions we 
have now taken to reinforce 
the UK business, together with 
continued progress on our 
strategic initiatives, leave us well 
positioned to make progress in 
the current year.
Manny Fontenla-Novoa
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
TH017_p06_15.indd 6 TH017_p06_15.indd   6 21/12/2010 22:15 21/12/2010   22:15 Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
Financial 
Statements
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 7
 Adjusted underlying proﬁ t
from operations
GROUP RESULTS
Group revenue for the 12 months ended 
30 September 2010 was £8,890m (2009: 
£9,269m), down 4% (5% on a constant 
currency basis), mainly reﬂ ecting planned 
capacity reductions in our winter 2009/10 
mainstream travel programme and lost sales 
as a result of the volcanic ash cloud incident. 
Adjusted underlying proﬁ t from operations 
was £391m (2009: £415m). This was the 
result of reduced capacity and the impact of 
weaker Sterling on ﬂ ying and accommodation 
costs, which was partially mitigated by cost 
initiatives in accommodation purchasing, 
airline operations and general overheads. 
Despite the challenging conditions, our 
Central Europe and Airlines Germany 
businesses recorded much improved results 
of £61m (2009 restated: £50m) and £54m 
(2009: £47m) respectively. These mainly 
resulted from product and efﬁ ciency 
improvements in both businesses and 
reduced depreciation charges in Airlines 
Germany. The Northern Europe proﬁ t of 
£94m (2009 restated: £87m) was also up and 
West & East Europe, which reported a proﬁ t 
of £87m (2009 restated: £86m), did well 
considering the difﬁ cult economic conditions 
in some of their markets.
The UK segment faced a challenging year, 
in part due to signiﬁ cant foreign exchange 
headwinds and softer demand over the 
summer and, as a result, adjusted underlying 
operating proﬁ t was £124m, down 24% on 
last year. Continued mainstream overcapacity 
in the Canadian market impacted North 
America’s proﬁ ts which fell to £10m 
(2009 restated: £18m). 
Reducing exceptional costs is a key area of 
focus for the Group. Excluding volcanic ash 
costs of £53m, other exceptional charges fell 
from £217m to £132m as the integration 
costs associated with the MyTravel merger 
fell away. Further detail can be found in the 
Financial Review on pages 42 to 45 and in 
note 6 to the Group ﬁ nancial statements. 
The net interest charge for the year remained 
broadly ﬂ at at £116m.
Overall, the Group delivered a statutory proﬁ t 
before tax of £42m compared with £45m last 
year, and the reported proﬁ t after tax was 
£3m (2009 restated: £9m). 
The adjusted underlying earnings per share 
was 22.8p (2009 restated: 25.0p). The basic 
loss per share was 0.3p (2009 restated 
earnings per share: 0.8p).
STRONG CASHFLOW PERFORMANCE
During the year, there has been a concerted 
effort across the Group to produce a 
sustainable improvement in cash ﬂ ow. This 
has largely been delivered through improved 
working capital management by raising 
customer deposit levels, accelerating holiday 
balance payments and harmonising supplier 
payment terms. This has been partly offset by 
increased hotelier deposits required in some 
cases and a reduction in creditors.
As a result of this, and despite the difﬁ cult 
trading environment, the Group achieved a 
signiﬁ cant improvement in cash ﬂ ow, with 
a £121m increase in operating cash ﬂ ow 
to £299m. 
The Group cash outﬂ ow (before changes 
in debt) was reduced to £117m compared 
with an outﬂ ow of £314m in the prior year. 
Group net debt at year end was £804m 
and headroom on banking facilities at 
30 September 2010 was £846m.
SUCCESSFUL REFINANCING 
During the year, we successfully replaced 
our previous bank facility with new funding. 
The new arrangements, which amount 
to £1,700m in total, comprise a £1,050m 
banking facility and £650m of bonds (Sterling 
equivalent). Taken together, they provide the 
Group with a simpler borrowing framework, 
longer and varied maturities and greater 
ﬂ exibility and funding going forward.
VOLCANIC ASH IMPACT AND 
OUR RESPONSE
The volcanic ash cloud from Iceland closed 
the majority of airspace above Northern 
Europe for almost six days in April, and it 
then took up to ﬁ ve days before the vast 
majority of our customers had been returned 
home. Further isolated closures in April and 
May impacted individual markets. 
I am extremely proud of the way in which 
all our people at Thomas Cook pulled 
together to respond to this crisis. The scale 
of the event was vast, involving c.180,000 
customers stranded in resort, c.190,000 
customers unable to depart on holiday 
and over 1,000 cancelled ﬂ ights. Our well-
rehearsed emergency procedures sprung 
into action and the team led a professional 
operation to reassure and assist customers, 
while simultaneously working with industry 
colleagues and the aviation authorities to 
coordinate a return to normal ﬂ ying.
The letters of thanks and praise that we 
received from customers are testament to 
the dedication of our people and the event 
highlighted again the added security of 
booking a package holiday. 
UK RESTRUCTURING AND HIGH STREET 
TRAVEL MERGER
Given the challenges experienced in the UK, 
and the uncertain outlook, we undertook a 
comprehensive review of the UK cost base 
and the structure of our UK operations 
towards the ﬁ nancial year end.
This review has resulted in a re-organisation 
of the UK into three divisions (Mainstream, 
Independent and Retail) to reduce complexity 
and give greater accountability and visibility 
of operations. 
 Customer service
Central Europe
71%
(2009: 72%)
Northern Europe
72%
(2009: 72%)
Airlines Germany
73%
(2009: 74%)
UK
76%
(2009: 76%)
West & East Europe
79%
(2009: 79%)
North America
93%
(2009: 91%)
Source: Standardised customer satisfaction measure based on 
mainstream customer surveys in each of our source markets.
The closure of European airspace in 
April 2010 had a signiﬁ cant impact 
on the operations of the Thomas Cook 
Group. As well as incurring £52.9m 
of direct exceptional costs to 
manage the welfare and repatriate 
our customers stranded in resort, 
management estimates that the lost 
margin from not being able to operate 
our ﬂ ight programme during this time 
was £29.2m. Given the uniqueness 
of this incident and the distortion 
management believes the margin 
loss causes to our results, we have 
excluded this margin impact from 
the underlying proﬁ t from operations 
that we discuss in both the Group 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s Statement and 
the Operating and Financial Reviews. 
We refer to this proﬁ t measure as 
“Adjusted underlying proﬁ t from 
operations”. Unadjusted numbers have 
been provided in the statutory income 
statement and related notes.
TH017_p06_15.indd 7 TH017_p06_15.indd   7 21/12/2010 22:15 21/12/2010   22:15 8 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer’s
statement continued
This deal represents the last signiﬁ cant 
consolidation opportunity in UK travel, 
combining two of the industry’s strongest 
and most complementary travel brands and 
distribution networks to reach out to a wider 
customer base than either company could 
achieve independently.
It will unlock annualised synergies within 
the merged entity of £35m at a one-off cost 
of £30m and further upstream synergies in 
Thomas Cook from additional mainstream 
and independent product sales of £10m. 
Thomas Cook will own 66.5% of the merged 
entity, The Co-operative Group will own 
30% and Midlands Co-operative will own 
3.5%. Whilst the merger is still subject to 
competition clearance, we are working 
with the relevant authorities to achieve an 
expedited clearance.
We believe that the restructuring, combined 
with the merger with The Co-operatives, 
will greatly strengthen our UK business 
going forward. 
CONFIDENCE IN OUR STRATEGY
Despite the challenging trading conditions 
this year, we remain conﬁ dent that the global 
travel market will return to growth and that 
our strategy is the right one to capture that 
growth and deliver value to our shareholders.
Our strategy is focused on strengthening our 
mainstream, package holiday and ﬁ nancial 
services businesses and investing in areas of 
future growth, primarily independent travel 
and new markets. 
During the year, we began work on a number 
of strategic initiatives that, we believe, have 
the potential to raise the Group operating 
proﬁ t margin by a further 100 to 150 basis 
points over the medium term.
The progress on our key strategic initiatives is 
highlighted below and a full Strategic Review 
is set out on pages 12 to 14.
Mainstream travel
The strategy for our Mainstream travel 
business is to improve product mix, whilst 
reducing operating costs, thus driving 
improvement in margin. During the year, we 
made good progress on a number of fronts.
In relation to costs, we established a new 
Group Destination Management function 
with direct control over more than £1bn of 
accommodation spend and average Group 
accommodation costs as a percentage of 
sales reduced year-on-year by 120 basis 
points to 32.5%. On aviation, by working 
together across our segments, our airlines 
delivered £19m incremental airline synergies 
from fuel efﬁ ciency improvements and joint 
tendering. In addition, good cost reductions 
were achieved in all of our operating 
segments, assisted by Group Procurement.
In terms of product mix, we improved 
our share of differentiated and exclusive 
products in all major markets and, through 
the acquisition of Öger Tours, we have 
strengthened our offering to Turkey from 
Germany. We also increased controlled and 
online distribution to 52% (2009: 51%) and 
23% (2009: 22%) respectively.
Thomas Cook Group operates a ﬂ eet of 93 
aircraft with an average age of 12 years. The 
Group has identiﬁ ed signiﬁ cant operational 
savings, particularly from maintenance 
and improved fuel efﬁ ciency, that can be 
achieved by renewing and harmonising its 
71 narrow body aircraft within a common 
ﬂ eet. Following a comprehensive review, the 
Group has selected the Airbus 320 family of 
aircraft. Accordingly, the Group will begin a 
ﬁ ve-year narrow body aircraft replacement 
programme, starting in December 2012 and 
phased in line with the planned retirement 
of the existing ﬂ eet. The replacement 
programme will deliver optimum ﬂ exibility 
by sourcing new narrow body aircraft 
through a combination of ﬁ rm and ﬂ exible 
orders direct with the manufacturer and 
though accessing the aircraft leasing market. 
A review of the wide body ﬂ eet replacement 
requirements will be undertaken during the 
current year.
As part of the replacement programme, 
the Group has reached a memorandum 
of understanding with Airbus for 12 new 
 see pages 46 to 48 for full biographies
From left to right: 
Back row: Jürgen Büser, Pete Constanti, Thomas Döring, Paul Hollingworth, Ralf Teckentrup and Paul Wood. 
Front row: Ian Derbyshire, Peter Fankhauser, Michael Friisdahl, Manny Fontenla-Novoa, Sam Weihagen and Derek Woodward.
“OUR STRATEGY IS FOCUSED ON STRENGTHENING OUR 
MAINSTREAM, PACKAGE HOLIDAY AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 
BUSINESSES AND INVESTING IN AREAS OF FUTURE GROWTH, 
PRIMARILY INDEPENDENT TRAVEL AND NEW MARKETS”
Our Group Executive Board
As a result of the restructuring, we expect 
to generate annualised overhead savings 
of £40m to £50m through the reduction of 
over 500 managerial and support roles; the 
renegotiation of supplier costs and reduction 
in buying requirements; and by consolidating 
and upgrading our IT infrastructure. These, 
and other savings, will be achieved in full 
in the ﬁ nancial year ending 30 September 
2012, helping to mitigate input cost pressures 
and any further deterioration in the trading 
environment. We estimate that at least £30m 
of savings will be achieved in the current year 
and that the cost of approximately £20m to 
implement all of the planned savings will be 
incurred in the current year. 
The UK business will also beneﬁ t from our 
plan to merge our UK high street travel 
and foreign exchange business with that 
of The Co-operative Group and Midlands 
Co-operative. This will create the UK’s largest 
high street travel network with around 
1,300 shops. 
TH017_p06_15.indd 8 TH017_p06_15.indd   8 21/12/2010 22:15 21/12/2010   22:15 Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
Financial 
Statements
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9
Back in 1896 Thomas Cook escorted 
UK customers to the ﬁ rst modern 
Olympic Games in Athens. As an 
ofﬁ cial supporter of the London 2012 
Olympic and Paralympic Games, 
Thomas Cook will be selling short 
breaks, including ofﬁ cial event tickets 
and accommodation, to the London 
2012 Games. 
Airbus 321 aircraft scheduled to be delivered 
in 2014, with a list price of US$96m each, 
together with options to purchase further 
aircraft from 2015. These aircraft are subject 
to substantial price concessions from the list 
price. The Group will remain a heavy user 
of operating leases and it is anticipated that 
directly purchased aircraft will be ﬁ nanced 
through sale and leaseback agreements with 
third-party lessors. 
For the ﬂ eet as a whole, it is estimated 
that the reduced running costs of the new 
aircraft will more than ﬁ nance the increased 
ownership costs. It is not anticipated that the 
overall ﬂ eet size will increase as a result. The 
Group expects to sign ﬁ nal contracts early in 
the New Year.
Travel-related ﬁ nancial services
Travel-related ﬁ nancial services contributed 
14% of Group adjusted underlying operating 
proﬁ t. In the UK, we increased our share of 
the foreign exchange market from 13% to 
15% and became the number one global 
provider of cash passports supplied by 
Travelex, tapping into the rising popularity 
of pre-paid currency cards. Additionally, 
we boosted our online travel insurance 
capability by acquiring Essential Travel.
Independent travel and Online
Travel Agent (OTA)
Our objective with independent travel is to 
grow both the top and bottom line, largely 
through the development of our European 
Online Travel Agent (OTA). 
In the year, we saw independent travel’s 
share of Group sales grow from 25% to 27% 
and passengers grow by 5%.
Signiﬁ cantly, we established the OTA 
organisation under the leadership of Thomas 
Döring, attracting high calibre people 
from well known internet companies and 
delivered sales with a gross booking value 
of £1bn, an increase of 22% on the previous 
year. This is a vital area for the Group and our 
ﬁ rst priority is to optimise sales of our own 
package holidays through the e-commerce 
channel. We are also developing plans to 
broaden our offering of city breaks and 
accommodation with beneﬁ ts expected to 
ﬂ ow over the next two to three years. 
Emerging markets
As a Group, we continue to see large potential 
opportunity in new, particularly emerging 
markets, where travel and GDP growth rates 
far outstrip our existing markets. We already 
operate in India, Egypt and Eastern Europe 
and, in 2010, 1.3m customers travelled with 
us from these markets. 
On 25 November 2010, Thomas Cook 
reached agreement to form a joint venture 
with VAO Intourist, one of Russia’s most 
renowned travel companies. Thomas Cook 
will acquire a 50.1% stake in the joint venture 
for a consideration of US$45m, comprising 
US$35m in new Thomas Cook shares and 
US$10m in cash. The joint venture will 
include Intourist’s outbound, domestic and 
inbound tour operating operations as well 
as its travel retail network. The joint venture 
provides Thomas Cook with an entry into the 
fast-growing Russian market with a strong 
local partner. Subject to anti-trust clearance 
in Russia and certain other conditions, the 
joint venture is expected to complete in or 
before February 2011.
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
To secure our future success for the long term 
we need to address the long-term challenges 
facing the travel industry. We have made 
progress during the year in all areas of our 
sustainability strategy including maintaining 
a committed and engaged workforce, 
providing a great holiday experience for 
customers whilst ensuring their security 
and safety, improving fuel efﬁ ciency and 
monitoring the carbon emissions from 
our aircraft and encouraging sustainable 
practices within our supply chain. A full 
report on our progress is provided on pages 
38 to 41. 
PROUD OF OUR PEOPLE
During the year, we welcomed Paul 
Hollingworth as Group Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer. 
Paul’s appointment has strengthened the 
leadership team signiﬁ cantly and we have 
beneﬁ ted from his previous experience as 
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer of a number of major 
UK listed companies.
The Group Executive Board has continued 
to show strong leadership and we made a 
number of changes that enable us to manage 
more effectively going forward. In November 
2009, Jürgen Büser, having recovered well 
following a period of ill health, returned to 
the business to take up the role of Group 
Strategy Director. Pete Constanti, previously 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, Mainstream Travel 
UK, was appointed to the new Group role of 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, Group Destination 
Management, and Ian Derbyshire, previously 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, Independent Travel 
UK, was appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, UK. 
In May 2010, Thomas Döring, Chief Executive 
Ofﬁ cer, West & East Europe, expanded his 
role, taking on additional responsibility for 
spearheading our OTA initiative.
Ludger Heuberg , Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, 
Group Operations, who provided interim 
support as Acting Group Chief Financial 
Ofﬁ cer, and Alexis Coles-Barrasso, Group 
Director PR & Communications, stepped 
down to pursue other opportunities. I would 
like to thank them both for their valued 
input over the years. 
As part of the UK restructuring, we had 
to part with a number of our colleagues 
following the year end. The downsizing in no 
way reﬂ ects upon their ability or passion for 
the business and they go with our gratitude 
and best wishes for the future. 
 Next stop: London 2012
I would also like to personally thank all our 
people for their hard work and commitment 
to the Group over the last year. It has been 
challenging at times and the effort and 
energy they have shown has been invaluable.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
Our business has proved its resilience in 
challenging times. 
As we enter the current year, although the 
UK environment remains uncertain, we are 
encouraged by a better market environment 
in our major Continental and Scandinavian 
markets. Winter bookings are off to a good 
start and, although early in the cycle, 
summer bookings are developing well. 
We have taken further actions to simplify 
and streamline our UK business which 
will result in signiﬁ cant cost savings on an 
annualised basis, helping to mitigate input 
cost pressures and any further deterioration 
in the trading environment.
We are conﬁ dent that the actions we have 
now taken to reinforce the UK business, 
together with continued progress on our 
strategic initiatives, leave us well positioned 
to make progress in the current year.
Manny Fontenla-Novoa
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
30 November 2010
TH017_p06_15.indd 9 TH017_p06_15.indd   9 21/12/2010 22:15 21/12/2010   22:15
