 Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
Financial 
Statements
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3
PROGRESS 
ON STRATEGIC 
INITIATIVES
The Group results were impacted by 
the challenging economic and trading 
environment but, despite this, the Group 
delivered a signiﬁ cant improvement in 
cash ﬂ ow performance and the adjusted 
underlying proﬁ t from operations was only 
down 6% on the prior year. 
The progress made against a number of 
strategic initiatives, such as destination 
management, airline synergies and the 
setting up of an Online Travel Agent, coupled 
with our successful reﬁ nancing in May, will 
serve us well in our drive to grow shareholder 
value. The Board believes that the decisive 
actions taken to reinforce our UK segment 
will place that business in a stronger position 
for the future.
With a trusted brand portfolio and a proven 
ability to manage our business, we will 
continue to meet the needs of our customers 
in the future.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend 
of 7.0 pence per share, which when combined 
with the interim dividend of 3.75 pence per 
share paid on 8 October 2010, makes a total 
dividend for the year of 10.75 pence per 
share. Whilst we are committed to optimising 
value for our shareholders and understand 
the importance of dividends to them, our 
recommendation to maintain the same level 
of dividend reﬂ ects last year’s performance 
in a challenging operating environment. The 
total dividend for the year represents a payout 
of 47% of adjusted diluted earnings per 
share and is in line with our policy of paying 
between 40% and 50% of adjusted earnings 
by way of dividend.
Once approved, the ﬁ nal dividend will be 
payable on 7 April 2011 to holders of relevant 
shares registered on 18 March 2011.
THE BOARD
The Board has made solid progress in its 
ﬁ rst year of leading a fully independent 
Company. We are committed to high standards 
of corporate governance and we are fully 
compliant with the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance. We recently conducted 
our annual Board evaluation, the output of 
which will help further develop Board and 
Committee effectiveness.
During the year, we strengthened our Board 
with a number of non-executive and executive 
appointments. Peter Middleton and Dawn 
Airey joined the Board as Independent Non-
Executive Directors on 30 November 2009 and 
12 April 2010 respectively. On 6 November 
2009, Sam Weihagen, Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, 
Northern Europe, took on the additional role 
of Deputy to the Group Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 
and joined the Board as an Executive Director. 
Paul Hollingworth joined the Board on 1 
January 2010 as Group Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer. 
Peter Marks, the Group Chief Executive 
of The Co-operative Group, will join the 
Board upon completion of the UK Retail 
joint venture with The Co-operative Group 
and Midlands Co-operative. Each of our 
new Directors brings a wealth of welcome 
experience to the Board’s deliberations.
Jürgen Büser stepped down from the Board as 
Group Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer on 29 November 
2009 and, having recovered well following a 
period of ill health, returned to the business to 
take up the role of Group Strategy Director on 
the Group Executive Board. Nigel Northridge, 
one of our Non-Executive Directors, resigned 
from the Board on 25 March 2010, to pursue 
broader responsibilities within his portfolio of 
non-executive directorships.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank Jürgen and Nigel for their contribution 
to the Group.
At the forthcoming AGM, I will be standing for 
re-election for a further year. The Nominations 
Committee, under the leadership of the Senior 
Independent Director, is in the early stages 
of a process to identify my successor with the 
aim of making an announcement during the 
course of the year.
EXECUTIVE TEAM
Manny Fontenla-Novoa and his executive 
team have together made robust and 
encouraging progress in a challenging 
marketplace. The Board would like to 
thank them and conﬁ rm our conﬁ dence 
in their ability to address the challenges 
that lie ahead.
EMPLOYEES
Our employees remain central to the future 
success of the Group. There can be no better 
example of dedication to customer service 
than their response to the closure of airspace 
due to the volcanic ash cloud. With sound 
values and a range of skills and experience, 
we believe they are our key differentiator in a 
highly competitive global industry. On behalf 
of the Board and shareholders, I would like 
to thank them for their dedication and high 
standards, which they continue to maintain.
THE FUTURE
Based on our solid foundations, the actions 
taken in the UK and the progress against a 
wide range of strategic initiatives, the Board 
is conﬁ dent that the Group is well positioned 
to make progress in the current year. 
Michael Beckett
Chairman
30 November 2010
Our management team has made robust 
and encouraging progress during the year, 
despite a weak economic climate and other 
challenging conditions.
Directors’ Report
Chairman’s statement
Total dividend
10.75p
2009: 10.75p
TH017_p02_03.indd 3 TH017_p02_03.indd   3 21/12/2010 22:12 21/12/2010   22:12
