 Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 8
Transformation the ﬁrst 365 days
A year of positive 
change and  
signiﬁcant 
achievement
We have built a ﬁrm 
foundation and we believe 
the Group has the potential 
to create signiﬁcant value 
in the future.
Overview: Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder
It is a real pleasure to report a year of positive change and signiﬁcant 
achievement; a year when we have successfully delivered the ﬁrst year of 
our Transformation and signiﬁcantly improved our ﬁnancial performance; 
a year when we have developed and started to deliver against our strategy 
for proﬁtable growth; a year when we have successfully strengthened our 
balance sheet with the completion of our £1.6 billion Capital Reﬁnancing 
Plan and an ongoing range of internal disciplines. 
These achievements are signiﬁcant by any standards and 2012/13 will be a 
year to remember in the history of this great Company. But this is just the start: 
we have built a ﬁrm foundation from which we will continue to deliver against 
our targets and KPIs as our strengthened Management Team, under the 
leadership of Harriet Green, continue to drive forward our Transformation 
and implement our strategy for proﬁtable growth. Thomas Cook Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9
Directors’ report
2
Financial statements
3
Strategic report
1
T ransformation and strategy for 
proﬁtable growth
Our Transformation has, out of necessity, 
challenging targets and, against a range of 
measures, we have exceeded our original 
expectations. Under the leadership of Harriet 
Green and her Management Team, we have 
successfully reversed the negative trends of 
the past by improving the performance of 
the businesses, improved cash ﬂow, almost 
halved net debt, taken signiﬁcant cost out 
of the business and increased the cost out 
targets for future years. The considerable 
progress made in the ﬁrst half of the year 
enabled us to strengthen the balance sheet 
with the £1.6 billion Capital Reﬁnancing Plan, 
including extended maturities of our bank 
facilities. We made disposals to focus on 
our core businesses, conducted one of the 
most in-depth surveys of travellers to provide 
valuable data to support the development of 
our strategy for proﬁtable growth (which was 
presented to investors in March 201 3) and 
started to deliver against that strategy. 
The uniﬁcation of our brands under one 
common symbol, the Sunny Heart, 
supported by our new brand values and our 
“One Airline” approach are just two of many 
examples of how we are working together, 
tearing down the walls across the Segments 
and leveraging the combined power of 
the Group. The signiﬁcant progress made 
throughout the year, has helped attract high 
calibre talent to many areas of the business 
to support and drive further progress against 
our targets. 
Corporate culture
A major feature in the Transformation has 
been the development of Group-wide 
Values, Ways of Working and standards 
combined within a Code of Conduct. 
The Code was developed by managers and 
employees across the Group and sets out in 
clear language the standards of behaviour 
that are required by all of our employees, 
wherever they may work. The Board fully 
recognises that an organisation’s culture is an 
important part of ensuring that our progress 
is sustainable and we have paid particular 
attention to the introduction and roll-out 
of the Code to ensure it is ﬁrmly embedded 
across the Group. The Board is encouraged 
by the signiﬁcant progress that has been 
made in each aspect of the Transformation.  
It is, however, particularly pleasing to see 
evidence of a cultural shift having taken place, 
with the silos of old broken down and our 
people working together as one Group.
Building a stronger and more 
diverse Board
We have strengthened the Board with the 
addition of three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. In reviewing the construct of the 
Board we aim to ensure we have high calibre 
individuals, who possess the range of skills 
and experience that we need to ensure 
quality contribution to our decision making. 
I am pleased that Emre Berkin joined the 
Board in November 201 2 and Carl Symon and 
Warren Tucker in October 201 3. We welcome 
the breadth of skills and experience that they 
bring to our deliberations.
Roger Burnell, who has served the Board 
well over the years, most recently as 
Senior Independent Director and Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee, has 
decided to retire at the AGM in February 
201 4. He has served on the Board of the 
Company and, prior to the merger in 2007 , 
MyTravel Group plc, for a total period of 
just over 10 years. I would like to thank 
Roger for his contribution to the Board and 
particularly for chairing the Remuneration 
Committee during a period of signiﬁcant 
change and improvement to our executive 
remuneration arrangements. Upon Roger’s 
retirement, Carl Symon will take on the 
role of Senior Independent Director and 
Warren Tucker will become Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
We strongly believe that diversity adds 
signiﬁcant value to the quality of discussion 
and decision making and we are pleased with 
the progress made by both the Board and 
Executive Committee. The Board currently 
comprises three women and seven men, 
of which six are based in the UK, two in 
Continental Europe, one in Turkey and one 
in the US. When looking for additional Non-
Executive Directors, we will search in countries 
in which we have signiﬁcant operations to 
capture relevant local knowledge, as well 
as a broad range of skills appropriate to our 
Boardroom. In my report on governance, 
I give more detail on the progress we have 
made in respect of the effectiveness of 
the Board and the action plan that we have 
in place to develop this further.
Our employees
The pace of change as we drive forward our 
Transformation is made possible by the hard 
work and delivery by our management and 
employees. On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank them for their signiﬁcant 
contribution in delivering a sustainable 
future for all our stakeholders.
Engaging with our important 
stakeholders 
Our many stakeholders are important to our 
business and we appreciate their tremendous 
support and loyalty in recent years. 
In addition to our shareholders, I would like 
to thank the banks, bondholders and our key 
regulators for their support before, during 
and after executing our £1.6 billion Capital 
Reﬁnancing Plan. We will continue to engage 
with them as we deliver our Transformation 
and strategy for proﬁtable growth. We should 
also recognise our corporate advisors, who 
have helped the Board steer a steady course 
during the past few years.
Sustainable future
The Board is delighted with the progress 
achieved to date, which is reﬂected in the 
ten-fold increase to our share price in the past 
year. Although we recognise there is much 
more to do as we implement our strategy for 
proﬁtable growth, the Board is conﬁdent of a 
sustainable future as our management across 
the Group, under the leadership of Harriet 
Green and her Executive Team, continue to 
build on our ﬁrm foundations and deliver 
beyond the targets we have set for 201 5. 
Through using the Thomas Cook Business 
System to further improve the Group, the 
Board believes that the Group has the 
potential to create signiﬁcant shareholder 
value in the future. 
Frank Meysman
Chairman
27 November 201 3
