 Directors’ Report
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s statement
8 www.thomascookgroup.com
Manny Fontenla-Novoa
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
Overall, our results for the year demonstrate
that, through our merger, we have created a
strong company with a team that has the
knowledge and capability to read the market
and respond accordingly. We have fully integrated
our merged business and a number of strategic
acquisitions, over-delivered against our cost
reduction targets, actively managed capacity,
and successfully navigated our way through a
period of unprecedented oil price volatility.
Recent research and the high load factors we
are currently experiencing give us conﬁdence
that consumers remain intent on taking their
holidays. We believe our strong ﬁnancial position,
together with the increased synergy savings
and contingency measures we have put in
place, will enable us to sustain a market-leading
performance throughout a challenging 2009.
We are targeting further growth in margins in
2009 and 2010, and operating proﬁt of £480
million in 2010.
The 2008 ﬁnancial period was the new Group’s ﬁrst full
year of trading and a period in which we achieved a strong
ﬁnancial performance and made signiﬁcant progress against
our strategic agenda. We have achieved industry-leading
margins, demonstrating the strength of our management
team and the ﬂexibility of our business model. • we have hedged 100% of our fuel
requirements for winter 2008/2009 and
95% for summer 2009, ensuring certainty
of pricing;
• we have hedged 98% of our dollar and
9% of our euro requirements for winter
2008/2009 and summer 2009.
Merger synergies
The integration of our operations since the
merger between Thomas Cook and MyTravel
on 19 June 200 has been highly successful
and we have been operating on a single
platform from management, commercial and
technological perspectives for over a year.
By accelerating synergy delivery, we realised
total savings of £142m in the 2008 pro forma
period, of which £139m were additional
savings during the period. The majority of
the savings came from the UK business.
Looking forward, we now expect to deliver
new synergy targets of:
• £185m of annual synergy savings
by the end of the 2009 ﬁnancial year
compared with the previous accelerated
target of £155m by 2009;
• a total of £215m of savings by 2010
compared with the original target
of £155m by 2010.
Strategy
We have made signiﬁcant progress against
our strategy this year, both through actions
which have optimised our existing business,
and through acquisitions which have
allowed us to achieve a step-change in
our performance, and these are set out
in more detail on pages 14 to 2.
Share buyback
In December 200, we announced plans for
a £290m (€35m) share buyback programme
and the programme was launched in March
2008, following approval at an EGM held on
12 March 2008. In proposing the programme,
the Board believed that the repurchase of
shares was the best way to return value to
shareholders, while at the same time
improving earnings per share and balance
sheet efﬁciency.
At the close of business on 30 September
2008, the Group had purchased a total of
10,124,30 shares for cancellation, at a total
cost of £23.5m, excluding commission. Of
these shares, 48,595,331 were purchased
from Arcandor AG, as a result of which
Arcandor’s holding was 52.8% of the Group.
Directors’ Report
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s statement continued
10 www.thomascookgroup.com
Pro forma ﬁnancial results
Thomas Cook has reported a strong set
of results. This demonstrates the quality of
management, the strength of our asset-light
business model and our operational and
cost ﬂexibility. It was achieved against the
background of the merger integration and
the continued development of the Group
through signiﬁcant strategic acquisitions.
Group pro forma revenue for the twelve months
to 30 September 2008 was £8,809.8m (200:
£,88.5m), an increase of 11.8% on the
prior year period. Excluding the impact of
translation and acquisitions, Group revenue
was ﬂat year on year. This reﬂects a decrease
in UK and North America revenue, as a
result of planned capacity cuts, offset by
an increase in Northern Europe. Underlying
revenue in Continental Europe and Airlines
Germany was broadly ﬂat year on year.
We delivered a 49.8% increase in Group proﬁt
from operations to £35.9m (200: £244.2m).
The Group operating proﬁt margin rose
35.5% from 3.1% to 4.2% last year, despite
a signiﬁcant increase in fuel costs. This
strong result reﬂected our ability to adapt
to changing demand by reducing capacity,
changing our product mix, cost discipline,
and fuel and currency hedging, as well as
our delivery of signiﬁcant synergy savings.
Pro forma EBITDA (proﬁt from operations before
depreciation and amortisation) increased by
3.5% to £50.0m (200: £30.8m). Pro forma
adjusted earnings per share increased by 40.9%
to 24.1p (200: 1.1p).
The segmental performance is reported in detail
in the Operational Review on pages 28 to 3.
Pro forma ﬁnancial position
Thomas Cook’s ﬁnancing position is robust.
In May 2008, we replaced the existing debt
facility with a new credit facility amounting to
£1.4bn, of which £1.0bn is available for
immediate use for the Group’s general
corporate purposes, including acquisitions
and the share buyback programme that we
have now completed.
In view of the current uncertainties in
the credit markets, we took the prudent
approach in October 2008, to draw down
fully our available facility thus ensuring
optimal ﬁnancial certainty for the Group.
Operating cash ﬂow was £220.2m in the
twelve months to 30 September 2008,
compared with £215.3m in the previous
year. At 30 September 2008, net debt was
£292.5m, compared with net funds of
£393.m in the previous year, reﬂecting the
planned expenditure on the share buyback
programme and acquisitions.
Operational ﬂexibility, cost base and hedging
The ﬂexibility within our asset-light business
model has been critical during the past
period and we have improved our ability
to underpin our future performance in
more challenging trading conditions.
The resilience we believe we have in the
current difﬁcult trading conditions is
based on that ﬂexibility, the strength of
our businesses post-merger, and capacity
rationalisation throughout the industry.
Capacity reductions in the UK market, for
example, amount to approximately 25% over
the last two years through our actions and
those of other market participants.
We are taking advantage of our buying
power to manage accommodation costs,
which represent over 30% of revenue. We
are conﬁdent that negotiations with our
suppliers will result in prices no higher than
last year’s levels across the Group this year,
despite adverse movements in currency.
The ability to adjust our cost base for potential
changes in demand is also important,
particularly in the current market conditions.
Only 10% of our group-wide hotel capacity
is committed for summer 2009, which
gives us considerable scope to make further
capacity adjustments; and in the UK, around
89% of our tour operator ﬂying requirements
are undertaken by our own ﬂeet, allowing us
considerable ﬂexibility to cut capacity without
impacting our own airline’s operations.
Tight control of all costs is a fundamental
part of the Thomas Cook business model.
In addition, we have developed contingency
plans to cut our overhead costs further
should tougher market conditions prevail.
Hedging
Fuel costs represent approximately 8% of
revenue and successful hedging has been
an important element of managing this cost.
Through a mixture of swaps and options, we
avoided the worst of the high crude oil prices
in the summer of 2008 as well as realising
some beneﬁts when prices fell. We have
now locked in our fuel costs for the current
ﬁnancial year.
We are taking a similar cautious approach to
future costs and our policy is to hedge fuel
and foreign exchange between 12 and 18
months in advance of the expected
expenditure. In line with this: Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11
Group Executive Board
From left to right:
Standing: Angus Porter, Jürgen Büser, Thomas Döring, Manny Fontenla-Novoa, Ralf Teckentrup, Michael Friisdahl, Mike Cutt and Ian Derbyshire.
Sitting: Peter Fankhauser, Pete Constanti, Alexis Coles-Barrasso, Ludger Heuberg, Sam Weihagen and Derek Woodward.
See page 50 for biographies
The share buyback programme concluded
on 9 October 2008. Up to that date, a total
of 120,059,11 shares were purchased
for cancellation at a total cost, excluding
commission, of £289.9m. Of these shares,
55,42,5 were purchased from Arcandor AG,
maintaining its holding of 52.8% in the Group.
Management team
This year’s impressive performance is the
result of the strong management team
working together and, in the newly enlarged
Thomas Cook business, being more capable
than ever of dealing effectively with the
challenges we face. Despite the backdrop of
integration, our international team has been
determined that Thomas Cook should remain
resilient, continue to make great progress
and put in place strong foundations upon
which to build its future. I am incredibly
proud of the entire Thomas Cook team for
what they have achieved this year and look
forward to working with them to go even
further in 2009 and beyond.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
Outlook
A range of initiatives within our power
underpins our conﬁdence in our prospects
for the current ﬁnancial year. Our business
model allows us to ﬂex capacity and product
mix well into the summer 2009 booking
cycle. In addition to our own capacity
management, we have seen capacity
rationalisation throughout the industry
which gives us further conﬁdence that we
can trade successfully through the current
conditions. Capacity reductions in the UK
market, for example, amount to approximately
25% over the last two years, through our actions
and those of other market participants.
We have tight cost discipline throughout the
business. We are negotiating with suppliers to
ensure that accommodation costs are no
higher than 200/2008 levels despite
currency movements. We are also hedging
fuel and currency against extreme volatility.
In addition, we have developed contingency
plans to cut our overhead costs further
should tougher market conditions prevail,
and have increased synergy targets for 2010
to a total of £215m with £185m expected by
the end of the 2009 ﬁnancial year.
The combination of our management team’s
long industry experience, a restructured
marketplace, our own initiatives and trading
which has been in line with expectations
supports our conﬁdence in our prospects for
the full year. We are targeting further growth
in margins in 2009 and 2010 and operating
proﬁt of £480m in 2010.
Manny Fontenla-Novoa
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
19 December 2008
