 8
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The begi n n i ng of a new era  
at Thomas Cook
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A
Q What can you tell us about your first 100 days? 
A Exciting and illuminating! I’ve learned a lot and now understand 
the strengths, challenges and incredible opportunities facing the 
Thomas Cook Group. 
Before I joined I spent time understanding how the Group is viewed 
from the outside. I met with customers, suppliers, key contacts in the 
city, shareholders, our banks and the media so I was already forming 
impressions before I joined. Once I started on 30 July 2012, I spent 
the first two months concentrating on understanding the inside-out 
view of the organisation. I have visited all of our major business 
centres, hosted employee briefings and held in-depth senior 
management sessions and budget reviews.
I spoke to customers and travelled to some of our significant holiday 
destinations to get a real sense of the service and experience our 
customers receive and I spoke at length to some of our critical 
partners. Service matters so much in our business – we’re not just 
delivering a product but an experience, fulfilling an expectation and 
creating lasting memories. Our customers trust us to deliver the best 
weeks of their year, and we want to be sure they’ll return and travel 
with us again and again.
I wanted to learn about our business from those who know it best – 
our employees, so I invited them to share their views with me, 
confidentially in a short feedback survey. I was delighted by both the 
quality and the number of responses I received, from over 8,000  
of our global team – real insights, solutions as well as problems, all 
characterised by refreshing honesty and passion for this business  
and our customers.
I was attracted to join Thomas Cook by its strong brands, reputation 
for customer service and the opportunity to transform the business 
by harnessing its inherent potential and building a best in class 
online capability. I almost feel that my entire career experience to 
date was preparing me for the challenges at Thomas Cook, a set of 
challenges I firmly believe we will address. The world in which we 
live is changing and we must capitalise on our many existing 
strengths whilst embracing new opportunities and different ways of 
working. Opportunities such as the way technology is transforming 
the travel industry, particularly the web and mobile. This influences 
the way consumers research and book holidays. Our customers want 
high tech and high touch – from our stores to our websites they want 
advice from our travel experts to help them make the choices that 
are right for them. We will embrace all channels to ensure our 
customers get exactly what they need, how and when they need it  
as we focus on becoming easier to do business with.
 “ I was attracted to join  
Thomas Cook by its strong  
brands, reputation for  
customer service and the 
opportunity to transform  
the business by harnessing  
its inherent potential”  Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
9
Directors’ Report: Business Review
The Thomas Cook family of brands are incredibly powerful and have 
proven themselves to be resilient, bouncing back from the challenges 
of the last year. We will now build on the trust placed in us by  
the 23 million customers who travel with us each year to ensure we 
deliver an experience that exceeds their expectations. At the same 
time we will target new market areas to keep at the forefront of  
what customers need and attract new customers. 
Some parts of the business are currently not performing as well as we 
need them to, but there are also areas of real strength, in particular 
Northern and Continental Europe, whose strong brands such as Ving, 
Spies, Tjäreborg and Neckermann are well known and regarded in 
their markets. We will work together to utilise best practice and 
learnings and really leverage the overall strength and expertise  
of the Group.
Ours is a target rich environment with real opportunity to take out 
cost. Since I joined, working closely with the senior team we have 
identified £100 million of cost savings and there is more to come. 
These savings will come from greater efficiency and use of 
technology, not at the expense of the customer experience. 
Pleasingly, I have not found anything which I did not expect.  
The historic underperformance I now believe is largely down to 
organisational complexity and structure, a lack of focus on some of 
the core business essentials and a failure to integrate our different 
businesses successfully and learn from each other as well as other 
industries and sectors. When I arrived the Group felt like a collection 
The begi n n i ng of a new era  
at Thomas Cook
 “ Some parts of the business are 
currently not performing as well 
as we need them to, but there are 
also areas of real strength” 
of individual businesses, working in silos, making it harder for us to 
succeed collectively. Already this has started to change – I have been 
delighted by the quality of people I have found across the business, 
many leaders with a verve for change and a desire to return the 
Group’s financial performance to where it needs to be. Inevitably 
there will be leadership changes – my usual formula is ‘a third, a 
third and a third’ – that’s a third of the existing team retained, a 
third coming from internal promotions and a third of the leadership 
coming in externally, bringing new strengths and skills. This pattern  
is already reflected in my direct report team.
We have made a number of critical appointments including: Peter 
Fankhauser appointed as UK CEO in addition to his existing role as 
CEO of Continental Europe, to leverage his business transformation 
experience; Susan Duinhoven, who previously led our West Europe 
business, has been appointed to lead the Group’s web transformation 
including the integration of web back into the segments whilst 
maintaining a web centre of excellence; Christoph Debus has been 
appointed as Group Head of Air Travel to review the Group’s air travel 
strategy, with regard to both our airlines and our purchasing of third 
party capacity in the tour operator and scheduled businesses. In our 
Benelux and East Europe businesses, Reto Wilhelm has been 
appointed as Managing Director, bringing his extensive knowledge 
and experience to help drive an improved performance; and Joe 
O’Neill joins as Group Treasurer as we also strengthen our Finance, 
Communications, Investor Relations, Audit and Risk teams.  10
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A continued
We are driving cultural change through greater collaboration and 
changing our structure to maximise the customer experience. These 
changes are happening at speed to quickly invigorate the Group  
and break down organisational silos and I firmly believe the recent 
appointments I have made will facilitate this, driving faster decision 
making and reducing costs through back office rationalisation. 
Across the Group, customer service will be a priority as we embed the 
mantra: “if you’re not serving the customer directly then brilliantly 
serve someone who is.”
This is a £9.5 billion turnover business, with a gross profit margin of 
22%, reducing to an operating margin of just 1.6%. There is a major 
opportunity here to reduce our costs and improve profitability. We 
are targeting cost reduction through structural change and we have 
already identified £100m of savings with substantial further 
opportunities to come.
The principles driving our focus on reducing costs and improving 
cash management are firstly acting cohesively as a Group, for 
example better leveraging our purchasing power, centralising where 
it makes sense to do so, whilst remaining committed to the 
importance of local knowledge and relationships for our customers 
and suppliers. We are also reducing costs through immediate 
self-help measures which include our air travel strategy as we look 
for greater integration of maintenance activities and better yield 
management of seat only sales.
Further savings will be driven as we reshape the organisation and 
take out layers and also by making better use of existing technology, 
for example standardisation of systems across the Group and the 
consolidation of technology platforms.
We also have an entire initiative dedicated to improving working 
capital management focused particularly on more disciplined cash 
collection and an improved procurement strategy. These measures 
are already delivering improvements. We have also identified 
significant gross cash flow improvements and expect to identify  
more benefits. 
In the UK, the turnaround plan has delivered significant benefits and  
we are accelerating the work to look at the high operating costs  
and opportunities for cash generation. 
Our entire customer proposition is also under detailed review, 
encompassing our distribution channels, our products and our 
brands. We want to continue to improve our core products to ensure 
we retain our existing customers whilst also attracting new customers 
through innovation.
The work on these transformational initiatives will drive immediate 
benefits and lay the foundations for the new strategy that we will  
be sharing in the spring of 2013.
The entire organisation is now mobilised around the changes 
required, our top 100 managers are fully engaged with the 
objectives we are working to achieve and we are actively changing 
the culture and ways of working as our transformation process 
begins to gain momentum. Over 100 of our teams globally are 
already working on our transformation projects which have been  
my real focus since the start of the new financial year.
Q Have you established a list of priorities? 
A My immediate priority was to accelerate the turnaround changes 
already underway and foster the heightened sense of urgency 
needed to transform the business. Being relatively new to the 
industry has proven to be an advantage as I ask the naïve questions, 
and bring fresh experience of other industries and I hope therefore 
a different perspective to the business. There are many excellent 
travel people within the business who I can rely on for industry 
knowledge to help inform my decisions. 
I had an initial list of areas I wanted to focus on when I started, but 
it has been an iterative process over the first 100 days resulting in 
the creation of a series of transformational initiatives that will build 
an effective organisation, address the cost and cash issues we face 
and create profitable growth, whilst delivering innovation and 
excellence for our customers.
We want to deliver even more to our existing, loyal customer groups 
whilst targeting new customer segments and responding to the 
increasingly diverse and individual needs of today’s leisure traveller. 
In the spirit of our pioneering founder, Thomas Cook, we will 
continue to differentiate ourselves. 
I shared these top priorities with the top 100 managers across the 
business that make up the Thomas Cook Leadership Council (‘TCLC’) 
in September 2012 and since then we have been building the teams 
who will develop our future strategy. There is a real sense of urgency 
and pace of change sweeping across the Group as people engage 
and connect with these initiatives that will ultimately shape our 
future direction. As I have already shared, we will be ready to 
announce this information to all stakeholders in the spring of 2013. 
Each of our key strategic initiatives now has a strong team assigned 
to move it forward with clear timelines, accountabilities and 
priorities and they fall into three main areas:
•	 Building an effective organisation;
•	 Addressing costs and cash management; and
•	 Creating a profitable growth strategy.
Building an effective organisation is the most important first step  
as it will underpin all our other work. Without this our strategic 
initiatives in both the short and long-term might fail. Our cost base  
is too high and this affects operating margin performance. We need 
to reduce our costs and start generating cash whilst considering 
carefully the assets we hold. Finally, we want to grow this business 
profitably for the future. We can leverage the strength of our brands 
and significant customer base to build on our popular current core 
products to attract new and existing customers. The way customers 
want to interact with us is changing and we will invest in our 
technology offering to meet their high tech and high touch needs.  Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
11
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Q Are the financial problems of the past year behind  
you now?
A We are making progress, as already shared, to address the 
challenges and the business improvements in Q4 are encouraging. 
Clearly there are challenges ahead which will take time to resolve 
but, as shared, we have robust plans and processes in place now and 
a critical element of our business improvement plan is to address the 
Group’s cost base and cash management and we will be reducing 
costs through the immediate self-help measures and more structural 
longer-term changes. 
The UK turnaround plan is critical to restoring the financial health  
of the business and is covered in more detail on page 22. First 
announced last year, the plan is progressing well, delivering £60m  
of savings in the year, largely through improved yield management 
(£19m) and cost synergies through the integration of the Co-operative 
Travel business (£15m); and the key actions taken in the year which 
include the return of six aircraft to the lessors, removing 
underperforming hotels, closing 149 stores and five head office 
properties and implementing a single commercial trading platform. 
With the appointment of Peter Fankhauser to lead the UK we  
now have one business, with one CEO, which will further reduce 
duplication and drive out cost. The strengths and contributions  
of Northern Europe and Germany in particular continue to be high 
and as we increase intra-Group partnerships, work more as a 
cohesive Group and leverage best practice we hope to see similar 
performance levels across the Group.
Eliminating duplication will enable us to leverage our global 
purchasing power more effectively, whilst reducing unnecessary 
overheads. 
Again, while the Group’s current gross profit margin is a respectable 
22%, our Group operating profit margin is just 1.6%, which 
demonstrates the scale of the potential within this business once  
we reduce cost and build the right organisational and operational 
capabilities. This is the central driving force of all of the work we  
are currently focused on and the senior team is totally committed  
to the improvements needed and the power of the transformation  
we are undertaking. 
Q How do you plan to energise, focus and rebuild  
Thomas Cook?
A We are breaking down barriers to growth, removing silos  
and strengthening the management team, as I hope I have already 
explained, and restoring our financial health to build an effective 
organisation able to deliver good returns in the future. We will  
be lean with ourselves and lavish with our customers and we  
will harness technology in all its forms to drive efficiency, service  
and even easier access to information. 
We’ll build on the strength and promise of our iconic and much 
loved travel brands, and widen our product portfolio to address the 
insatiable desire of our existing and new customers to travel more 
flexibly and cost effectively. Increasingly, our products are designed 
to target the specific needs of our different customer segments such 
as the family-friendly SENTIDO and Sunwing concepts or the adult  
only Sunprime and Sunselect Hotels which are very successful  
and popular. Targeting different customer groups in this way  
and developing compelling new propositions, affords us a very  
real opportunity to attract new customers. 
Even in these tougher macro-economic conditions, when disposable 
income is down, 41%* of consumers surveyed regard their holiday  
as an essential purchase.
We will continue to offer customers a full multi-channel experience 
to ensure they can reach us however and whenever they want to, 
harnessing technology and the web to drive differentiation at every 
point of the holiday experience. The customer’s holiday must begin 
the first time they connect with us and last until they collect their 
luggage and return home. Every part of the process matters in 
creating the final experience and every one of our employees  
must understand this. 
Internally, we will build a fresh culture centred on our core values, 
our ways of working and the clear message that every act we each 
take every day matters. Instilling a high performance culture  
of accountability is vital to our strategic transformation and  
the new ways of working will help guide and shape our future.
Our values
Succeed as One Team 
Deliver for Our Customers  
Engage Each other 
Drive for Results  
Act with Integrity
Every Act
Every Day
Every One
Q What is your vision for Thomas Cook? 
A I believe Thomas Cook will become THE ‘Voyager Android’ of the 
future. We will be there for our customers however, whenever and 
wherever they are in the world. We will do this through innovation 
and by working more collaboratively as a Group to share and expand 
on the best of what we already have and do. We’ll help them sort the 
vast array of data into meaningful, value adding information – we’ll 
use our expertise and knowledge of 171 years of travel to shape, 
guide and inform their decisions in this web world as they remain  
at the heart of the organisation, the primary driver of all we do.  
Harriet Green
Group Chief Executive Officer
27 November 2012
* TNS UK Market Insights Report 2012
