 4
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
I would like to thank Sam Weihagen, who served as Group CEO  
until 30 July and Paul Hollingworth, who served as Group CFO until 
30 June for the contribution they each made during a difficult and 
challenging period for the Company. 
At the beginning of my tenure, I conducted a review of the Board 
with the intention of making changes to refresh and further 
strengthen its Non-Executive composition. The type of skills and 
experience required was reinforced by the output from our externally 
facilitated Board evaluation that we carried out in the spring of this 
year. As a result of our search, I am very pleased that Emre Berkin 
recently joined our Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director 
and we welcome the experience that he brings to our deliberations. 
Roger Burnell, our Senior Independent Director and Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee, who was due to retire at the AGM in 
February 2013 will continue on the Board for a further year to provide 
continuity and continue to share his significant industry experience.
Three of our Non-Executive Directors retired at the AGM in February 
2012: David Allvey at the end of nine years’ service; Bo Lerenius and 
Peter Middleton which gave me the opportunity to refresh the Board 
at a crucial stage in the Company’s evolution. I would like to thank 
all three for their contribution to the Board over the years. 
The progress we have made with our corporate governance 
arrangements is fully covered in my letter to shareholders at the  
start of the Governance Report on page 40. 
Transforming the business and developing a strategy  
for the future
Since joining the Company, Harriet Green has moved at pace as  
she and her senior leadership team, supported by talent from across 
the Group, work to deliver on 15 turnaround initiatives focused on 
three essential elements:
•	 Building an effective organisation;
•	 Addressing costs and cash management; and 
•	 Creating a profitable growth strategy.
The entire organisation is now fully mobilised around the 
transformation and the top 100 managers are fully engaged.  
There have been a number of key management changes, as Harriet 
strengthens her team to take the business forward. These management 
changes, the transformation initiatives and the progress being made 
are described fully in the Strategy Review on pages 15 to 17.
Dear Shareholder,
As we emerge from a challenging year for the Thomas Cook Group  
I am pleased to be able to report that the many actions we have 
taken are now starting to deliver results. Real progress has been 
achieved since we implemented our initial stabilisation plan, 
described in more detail on page 15 with our strengthened balance 
sheet and a restructured Board providing a firm foundation for us  
to now build upon. Significantly, under the leadership of our new 
Group CEO, Harriet Green, the organisation is mobilised around a full 
business transformation which will build a stronger and sustainable 
future. I would like to focus on the progress that we have made and 
add greater insight to the initiatives that are underway. 
Strengthening the balance sheet
In May 2012, we announced the agreement with our lenders of  
a new more flexible financing package with an extended maturity  
to 31 May 2015, providing further stability to our business. As part  
of our initial stabilisation plan, we took decisions to sell non-core 
businesses, including HCV and Thomas Cook India, as well as 
conducting the sale and leaseback of 19 of our aircraft. I would like 
to thank our shareholders for the overwhelming support that they 
gave for the Board’s recommendations at the respective general 
meetings in May and August 2012. 
The proceeds from these disposals and a substantial improvement  
in working capital management have resulted in a year-end net debt 
reduction of £103m (from £891m to £788m) and liquidity headroom 
at circa £1bn, improved by £160m over the prior year. There is a 
continued focus on cash management and improving our working 
capital position as part of the business transformation.
Building a stronger Board 
One of my main priorities in my role as Chairman was to recruit  
a high calibre Group CEO to lead the significant transformation 
required to re-build our Company, and I am delighted that Harriet 
Green agreed to take on the challenge. Harriet, who joined us at the 
end of July, is an extremely successful executive with the right 
combination of international, business transformation and 
e-commerce experience that we need to take the Group forward  
and build on our resilient brand. Michael Healy, who has successful 
experience of e-commerce, corporate restructuring and highly 
leveraged businesses, was appointed Group CFO at the beginning  
of July. 
Chairman’s statement
Good progress on 
actions to rebuild  
our business Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
5
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Since joining the Board in October 2011 and taking on the role of 
Chairman two months later I have travelled extensively across the 
Group, to better understand the opportunities and challenges facing 
our businesses and to meet the leaders and their teams who 
contribute to our success. In addition to the over-arching Thomas 
Cook brand we have other strong regional brands such as Ving in 
Northern Europe and Neckermann in Continental Europe, to name 
but two, which continue to perform well and deliver for our 
customers. I have seen first-hand the pockets of excellence in each  
of our businesses. This understanding gives me confidence that the 
actions being taken by Harriet and her management team, and the 
pace and vigour of the change they are heralding, will enable us to 
rebuild and emerge even stronger than before.
Engaging with our important stakeholders
I would like to thank our many stakeholder communities for the 
support and trust they have shown us throughout the year, loyalty 
that we intend to repay now by delivering on our commitments  
as we look to the future. 
Customers travelled with us in the same numbers as before, over  
23 million in the last year trusting us to deliver a memorable holiday 
experience which our suppliers partnered with us to deliver.
Our shareholders and the wider financial community also 
demonstrated their support whilst our employees continued to focus 
on customer service excellence, showing real strength, resilience and 
passion for Thomas Cook. They are energised by the changes we are 
making and excited to be part of the future we are building together. 
Again, on behalf of the Board, I thank every one of our important 
stakeholders for their belief in us and our brands – the Thomas Cook 
brand which has a 171 year reputation for delivering innovation and 
outstanding service is now in safe hands.
We are optimistic that even in the current economic environment  
the management team’s focus on providing customers with  
wonderful holiday experiences, whilst improving our cash and 
financial management, will lead to an improvement in the financial 
results and the building of a future for Thomas Cook worthy of  
its heritage.
Frank Meysman
Chairman
27 November 2012
 “ The entire organisation is  
now fully mobilised around  
the transformation and the top  
100 managers are fully engaged”
2012 Governance highlights 
•	 New Group CEO and Group 
CFO leading renewed focus  
on risk management, internal 
and financial control, and the 
management and direction  
of internal audit. New senior 
management appointments to 
support these important areas
•	 Strengthened the Board with 
Executive and Non-Executive 
appointments
•	 Improved diversity against  
a range of measures
•	 New chairs of the Board’s 
Committees
•	 Externally facilitated Board 
effectiveness review
– Outputs shaped the candidate profile  
for new Board appointments
– Outputs debated by the Board and agreed 
action plan in place. Being monitored with 
regular progress reports to the Board
For more information on our governance  
see page 40
