 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.thorntons.co.uk
6
Chief Executive’s report
The	past	year	has	been	challenging	for	
Thorntons, 	 our 	 customers 	 and 	 the 	 economy .	
Never theless, 	 overall 	 sales 	 in 	 the 	 year 	 grew	
1.7%	to	£218.3	million	and	our	share	of	
the 	 UK 	 chocolate 	 market 	 grew 	 to 	 circa 	 7.7%	
which	is	a	reflection	of	the	considerable	
strength 	 of 	 our 	 brand, 	 the 	 quality 	 and 	 value	
it 	 delivers 	 and 	 the 	 role 	 it 	 plays 	 in 	 our	
customers’ 	 lives. 	 This 	 sales 	 growth 	 was	
achieved 	 despite 	 the 	 unprecedented 	 impact	
of	the	poor	weather	before	Christmas	and	
the	hottest	Easter	on	record.	This	clearly	
demonstrates	the	significant	strategic	
benefit	of	our	multi-channel	strategy .	
2010/11	has	seen	one	of	the	toughest	
consumer	spending	environments	we	have	
experienced	and,	as	such,	R etail,	with	the	
exception	of	Thorntons	Direct,	has	had	a	
difficult	year .	This	contrasts	with	another	
strong 	 year 	 of 	 growth 	 for 	 our 	 Sales 	 &	
Operations	channel	where	we	continued	
to 	 grow 	 our 	 market 	 share 	 in 	 our 	 core	
categories 	 during 	 key 	 seasons, 	 in 	 par ticular	
Easter , 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 through 	 increased 	 breadth	
and	depth	of	distribution .	
R epor ted	pre-tax	profit	before	exceptionals	
was	£4.3	million	(2010:	£6.9	million)	
whilst 	 net 	 debt 	 was 	 £24.5 	 million	
(2010: £26.0 million).
W e	have	continued	to	manage	our	costs	
ver y	tightly	over	the	period	and	invested	
where	appropriate	to	improve	efficiency .	
F ollowing 	 the 	 renegotiation 	 of 	 the	
outsourcing	agreement	of	our	IT	ser vices	
in	2010,	we	have	recently	completed	
the 	 outsourcing 	 of 	 our 	 warehousing	
and 	 distribution 	 activities. 	 This, 	 together 	 with	
the	ongoing	benefits	of	our	procurement	
review	and	the	recent	restructuring	of	our	
Head	Office	cost	base,	should	deliver	a	full	
year	benefit	of	£2.0	million	that	will	flow	
through 	 in 	 full 	 in 	 the 	 2012/13 	 financial 	 year .
The year in review
Thorntons Centenary
2011 is our centenary year and as a 
business	we	wanted	to	mark	this	occasion	
with	innovative	products	and	moments	
to 	 remember 	 with 	 our 	 customers 	 and 	 staff .	
In 	 the 	 course 	 of 	 the 	 year , 	 we 	 have 	 produced	
a	number	of	unique	products	including	
the	“ Jubilee	Box”	which	contains	100	
of	Thorntons	favourite	chocolates	as	well	
as	new	flavours	such	as	Lime	and	chilli,	
R aspberr y 	 and 	 R ose. 	 W e 	 have 	 also 	 brought	
back 	 some 	 old 	 favourites 	 in 	 our 	 sugar 	 range	
including	chocolate	éclairs	and	launched	a	
collectable	ceramic	toffee	cabin ,	as	well	as	
limited	edition	Chocolate	Blocks	including	
classic 	 flavours 	 such 	 as 	 English 	 rose, 	
Cloudy	lemonade	and	Bakewell	tar t.
Thorntons	Master	Chocolatier	has	created	
a	limited	edition	“W onder	Box”	that	are	a	
mix	of	heritage	and	contemporar y	flavours	
and	also	include	a	bar	of	chocolate	which	
tastes	as	chocolate	would	have	done	100	
years	ago .	All	the	chocolates	have	been	
handmade	in	Thorntons’	kitchens.
T o 	 celebrate 	 our 	 anniversar y 	 with 	 our	
customers	we	have	hidden	100	Golden	
K eys	in	our	chocolate	blocks	and	the	lucky	
winners	will	get	a	behind-the-scenes	trip	
to	the	Thorntons	chocolate	factor y	during	
Chocolate	W eek	in	October .	Visiting	22	
city	centre	locations	over	the	first	half	of	
this 	 year , 	 our 	 “Live 	 Mechanical 	 Chocolatier ”	
has	brought	some	theatre	to	the	streets	
of	Britain .	In	addition ,	in	the	summer ,	
a	team	of	five	Thorntons	employees	cycled	
from	John	O ’Groats	to	Lands	End	covering	
1,200	miles	and	visiting	100	Thorntons	
stores 	 along 	 the 	 way , 	 all 	 in 	 the 	 name 	 of 	 the	
Company ’s	nominated	charity ,	the	NSPCC.
F rom	September	onwards	Thorntons	has	
invited	 chocolate	 lovers	 around	 the	 countr y	
to	step	inside	its	amazing	Chocolate	Kabin	
In summary
  Overall sales in the year grew 
1.7% to a record £218.3 million 
and our share of the UK chocolate 
market grew to circa 7.7%
  Thorntons’ centenary presents 
opportunities to celebrate with 
wonderful products and customer 
and staff involvement
  A strategic review that found 
significant underlying strength 
in our brand, our multi-channel 
distribution model, our market-
leading manufacturing capability 
and our great people
   Confident that our plan is right for 
the Company and the challenging 
times in which we live www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7
to	find	a	Golden	K ey	to	the	chocolate	
factor y .	The	Kabin	is	a	re-creation	of	
the	delightful	little	chocolate	shop	first	
opened	by	Norman	and	Stanley	Thornton .	
The	Kabin	was	unveiled	in	L ondon	
on	2 	 September 	 and 	 will 	 travel 	 to	
Liverpool, 	 Nottingham, 	 Edinburgh	
and	Sheffield	thereaf ter .
Along 	 with 	 all 	 these 	 exciting 	 activities,	
we 	 have 	 also 	 been 	 celebrating 	 our 	 centenar y	
with	our	staff .	A	Gala	Day	for	employees	
and	their	families	at	Thornton	P ark	was	
a	great	success	and	we	will	be	holding	
a	Centenar y	Ball	in	December .
Product innovation
The 	 development 	 of 	 new 	 and 	 exciting	
products	will	always	be	key	to	the	success	
and 	 vibrancy 	 of 	 the 	 Thorntons 	 brand.	
The 	 period 	 under 	 review 	 saw 	 the 	 successful	
re-launch	of	our	two	core	boxed	chocolate	
brands	Continental	and	Classics	in	R etail,	
as	well	as	a	refreshed	Classic	Collection	
in	our	Commercial	channel.
Our	new	Melts	brand	grew	well	over	the	
period	and	was	joined	by	a	new	caramel	
variety	which	was	created	with	a	unique,	
two -tone	shell	delivered	through	our	new	
“triple-shot”	technology .
Our	children ’s	range	has	been	re-launched	
and 	 we 	 have 	 seen 	 some 	 strong 	 development	
in 	 our 	 key 	 seasonal 	 lines, 	 such 	 as 	 the 	 launch	
of	our	Bramble	Bunny	range	at	Easter .
W e	re-launched	our	Hampers	and	
Photoboxes	in	Thorntons	Direct,	which,	
along	with	our	Alphabet	T ruffles,	drove	
significant	sales	growth.
In 	 spring 	 2011 	 we 	 were 	 thrilled 	 to	
be 	 awarded 	 four 	 Gold 	 Awards 	 from	
the	Academy	of	Chocolate:	three	for	the	
chocolates	in	our	Centenar y	“W onder	Box”	
and 	 one 	 for 	 our 	 outstanding 	 T onka 	 Chocolate	
Block. 	 Finally 	 our 	 Master 	 Chocolatier	
K eith	Hurdman	was	awarded	the	accolade	
of	Joint	Chocolatier	of	the	Y ear ,	recognition	
from	within	our	industr y	not	only	of	K eith’s	
remarkable	skill	but	also	of	the	quality	
of	Thorntons’	products.
Retail
T otal 	 R etail 	 sales, 	 including 	 Own 	 Stores,	
F ranchise 	 and 	 Thorntons 	 Direct, 	 declined	
8.2% 	 to 	 £139.5 	 million 	 (2010:	
£152.0	million).
Own Stores
Sales 	 in 	 Own 	 Stores 	 fell 	 8.9% 	 to	
£118.3 	 million 	 over 	 the 	 period 	(2010:	
£129.8 	 million). 	 Like 	 for 	 like 	 sales 	 declined	
by	7.9%	reflecting	the	significant	impact	
of 	 the 	 weak 	 consumer 	 environment,	
the 	 reduced 	 footfall 	 on 	 high 	 streets 	 and	
the 	 aforementioned 	 weather 	 impacts	
at	Christmas	and	Easter .
During 	 the 	 period 	 18 	 stores 	 were 	 refurbished	
or	reformatted,	16	stores	were	closed	and	
three 	 successfully 	 re-sited, 	 resulting 	 in 	 a 	 total	
of 	 364 	 stores 	 at 	 the 	 year 	 end 	 (2010: 	 377).
Franchise
F ranchise 	 sales 	 for 	 the 	 period 	 declined 	 10.8%	
to £11.6 million (2010: £13.0 million) 
as	they	too	suffered	from	the	consumer	
downturn . 	 Over 	 the 	 year , 	 eight 	 independent	
F ranchise 	 locations 	 closed 	 and 	 six 	 Bir thdays	
units 	 in 	 Eire 	 went 	 into 	 liquidation 	 and 	 were	
also 	 closed. 	 Never theless, 	 we 	 continue	
to 	 be 	 encouraged 	 by 	 the 	 interest 	 in 	 the	
Thorntons 	 F ranchise, 	 with 	 19 	 new	
F ranchise 	 locations 	 opening 	 during 	 the	
period.	This	resulted	in	an	overall	increase	
in	the	F ranchise	estate	to	227	by	the	year	
end (2010: 222).
Thorntons Direct
Overall	Thorntons	Direct	sales	grew	4.3%	
to £9.6 million (2010: £9.2 million). 
W e	continue	to	invest	in	improving	the	
customer	experience,	optimising	online	
conversion 	 levels 	 and 	 creating 	 a 	 new 	 contact	
centre	to	improve	our	customer	ser vice.	
Sales & Operations
Commercial sales
2011	was	another	strong	year	for	our	
Commercial	channel,	with	sales	increasing	
25.9%	to	£78.8	million	(2010:	£62.6	
million).	The	period	was	characterised	by	
our	continued	positive	relationships	with	
the	major	supermarkets,	where	our	
“mass-premium”	positioning	has	helped	
us	to	deliver	categor y-leading	initiatives	
and	fur ther	drive	our	leadership	in	our	
core	markets,	as	well	as	the	overall	
growth	in	these	markets.	
Thorntons	now	has	34%	(2010:	30%)	
of	the	inlaid	box	chocolate	market	in	
the	UK	(Nielsen ,	July	2011).
During	the	period	we	were	par ticularly	
pleased	with	our	2.9%	market	share	at	
Easter 	 (2010: 	 1.9%) 	 where 	 we 	 par ticipated	
with	our	Commercial	par tners	in	their	
core	Easter	promotions	for	the	first	time.	
In	addition	to	this	we	have	also	seen	
some	pleasing	development	in	gif ting	
oppor tunities	for	Eid	and	Diwali.
Manufacturing operations
In 	 our 	 manufacturing 	 operations 	 we 	 delivered	
strong	and	sustained	improvements	over	
the 	 period. 	 P roductivity 	 improvements	
continued 	 to 	 offset 	 cost 	 increases,	
in 	 par ticular 	 in 	 utilities. 	 W e 	 achieved	
volume	growth	of	circa	5%	with	a	vir tually	
flat	overhead	cost	and	the	investment	in	
our	new	moulding	line	has	delivered	the	
anticipated	savings.
Service levels to our internal and commercial 
customers 	 increased 	 fur ther 	 during 	 the	
period, 	 exceeding 	 97% 	 (2010: 	 96%).	
Since 	 the 	 year 	 end 	 we 	 outsourced 	 our	
warehouse 	 and 	 distribution 	 functions	
under 	 a 	 six-year 	 contract. 	 Over 	 130 	 of	 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.thorntons.co.uk
8
Chief Executive’s report continued
The year in review continued
Sales & Operations continued
Manufacturing operations continued
our	colleagues	have	now	transferred	from	
Thorntons	to	our	par tner .	W e	thank	them	
and 	 wish 	 them 	 well 	 as 	 we 	 star t 	 this	
new	relationship.
R aw	material	prices	saw	fur ther	significant	
increases 	 during 	 the 	 period. 	 Dair y 	 products	
increased	by	more	than	20%	and	sugar	by	
more	than	50%.	P ackaging	materials	and	
diesel 	 have 	 also 	 experienced 	 significant 	 price	
increases.	Our	for ward	cover	purchasing	
during	the	period	enabled	us	to	avoid	the	
spike 	 in 	 the 	 price 	 of 	 cocoa 	 witnessed 	 during	
the	period	of	political	uncer tainty	in	the	
Ivor y	Coast.	This	is	one	of	a	number	of	
strategies 	 that 	 we 	 have 	 deployed 	 to 	 mitigate	
these	price	increases.	Improvements	in	
our	procurement	approach	combined	with	
product 	 and 	 ingredient 	 re-engineering 	 have	
also 	 continued 	 to 	 help 	 reduce 	 some, 	 though	
not	all,	of	these	effects.
Export sales
Although	star ting	from	a	low	base,	
Expor t	sales	increased	strongly	by	33.3%	
to £3.6 million (2010: £2.7 million). 
There	was	strong	growth	in	duty	free	sales	
and 	 in 	 the 	 development 	 of 	 sales 	 to 	 a 	 number	
of 	 territories 	 including 	 South 	 Africa,	
Singapore, 	 Cyprus 	 and 	 P oland. 	 Our 	 business	
in 	 the 	 R epublic 	 of 	 Ireland 	 also 	 grew 	 despite	
the	challenging	economic	conditions.	
Notwithstanding 	 these 	 encouraging 	 results,	
we	will	shor tly	be	commencing	a	strategic	
review	of	international	oppor tunities	and	
will	repor t	the	results	in	approximately	
twelve	months’	time.
Future plans
At	the	end	of	the	period	I	presented	
our	plans 	 for 	 the 	 future 	 of 	 Thorntons.	
This 	 followed 	 a 	 strategic 	 review 	 that	
f o u n d 	 significant 	 underlying 	 strength 	 in 	 our 	
b r a n d ,	our	multi-channel	distribution	
model,	our	market-leading	manufacturing	
capability	and	our	great	people.	The	most	
significant	issues	were	identified	in	our	
Own	Stores	and	addressing	these	
challenges	is	at	the	hear t	of	our	plan .
Our	plan	sets	out	to	achieve	three	
key	objectives:
•	 	 a 	 profitable 	 and 	 rebalanced 	 organisation :	
a	smaller	R etail	estate	with	a	clear	
proposition	and	offer .	Growth	in	sales	
and	earnings	from	our	Commercial	and	
F ranchise	channels	which	will	more	
than	offset	the	reduction	in	Own	Store	
sales	and	earnings;
•	 	 a	customer -focused	business:	ser ving	
our 	 customers 	 where 	 they 	 choose 	 to 	 buy	
from	us	with	increased	frequency	of	
purchase	and	improved	advocacy ;	and
•	 	 a	revitalised	brand	brought	to	life	
in-store and online.
A profitable and 
rebalanced organisation
Our	Own	Stores	have	been	affected	
in	three	ways	over	the	past	decade:
•	 	 there	have	been	significant	changes	in	
consumer	shopping	habits,	notably	the	
growth 	 of 	 out 	 of 	 town 	 centres 	 and 	 malls,	
supermarkets	and	online	shopping;
•	 	 our	Commercial	sales	growth	has	
also	impacted	sales	in	our	Own	Stores	
to	some	extent.	Despite	this	growth	
however ,	it	is	impor tant	to	note	that	the	
growth	in	our	Commercial	channel	has	
outweighed	any	possible	loss	to	our	
Own	Stores	many	times	over ;	and
•	 	 the	current	downturn	has	exacerbated	
the	weakness	in	many	smaller	towns	
and	shopping	centres.
Achieving this 
transformation over 
the next three years 
will deliver a stronger, 
de-risked business in 
a position of strength 
for sustainable and 
profitable growth 
in the future. www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9
As 	 a 	 result 	 of 	 the 	 above, 	 a 	 significant 	
number 	 of 	 our 	 Own 	 Stores 	 now 	 find 	
themselves 	 poorly 	 located 	 with 	 low	
o r 	 declining	profitability .
Our 	 Own 	 Stores 	 can , 	 and 	 will 	 be, 	 key 	 to	
the 	 future 	 success 	 of 	 Thorntons, 	 driving	
profitable 	 and 	 sustainable 	 sales 	 and 	
showcasing 	 our 	 brand. 	 W e 	 believe 	 that	
this 	 can 	 be 	 achieved 	 with 	 an 	 estate 	 of	
between 	 180 	 and 	 200 	 stores, 	 located	
primarily 	 in 	 the 	 top 	 150 	 retail 	 locations.	
T aking	advantage	of	the	179	lease	expiries	
over	the	next	three	years,	we	plan	to	close	
around 	 120 	 stores 	 and 	 explore 	 oppor tunities	
to 	 close 	 a 	 fur ther 	 60 	 stores 	 in 	 weak 	 locations	
in	the	same	time	frame.
This	will	have	significant	implications	
for	our	other	channels:
•	 	 our 	 F ranchise 	 estate 	 will 	 grow 	 rapidly	
as 	 we 	 open 	 franchises 	 in 	 the 	 majority 	 of	
locations 	 where 	 we 	 close 	 our 	 Own 	 Stores;
•	 	 our	Commercial	channel	will	become	
the	main	sales	channel	over	the	next	
three	years	as	we	see	fur ther	growth	
in	supermarket	sales	driven	by	more	
stores 	 and 	 greater 	 demand 	 from	
customers;	and
•	 	 our	Thorntons	Direct	channel	will	
continue	to	grow	in	line	with	the	online	
gif ting	market.	W e	will	invest	fur ther	
in	our	website	and	in	new	customer	
relationship	management	systems	as	
we	star t	to	align	the	direct	consumer	
element	of	this	channel	with	our	
Own	Stores	channel.
R ebalancing	our	business	across	our	
channels	in	this	way	will	ensure	that	we	
protect	the	capacity	utilisation	levels	in	our	
factor y	by	maintaining	modest	growth	in	
overall	production	levels.
A customer-focused business
W e 	 know 	 and 	 understand 	 our 	 core	
customers	well	since	many	purchase	
Thorntons 	 across 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 our 	 channels.	
They	tell	us	that	they	want	us	to	improve	
their	experience	in	our	Own	Stores	and	
we	have	committed	to	investing	in	our	
stores,	in	our	products	and	in	delivering	
a	truly	engaging	experience	through	our	
store teams. 
On 	 average, 	 our 	 customers 	 visit 	 and 	 purchase	
from	us	five	times	a	year .	Just	under	half	
of	our	customers	visit	us	only	once	or	
twice	a	year .	Our	key	customer	o b j e c t i v e	
is 	 to 	 encourage 	 existing 	 customers 	t o	
visit 	 and 	 purchase 	 more 	 frequently .	
Achieving 	 just 	 one 	 extra 	 visit 	 and	
purchase 	 per 	 year 	 would 	 transform	
o u r 	 O w n 	 Stores	business.
A revitalised brand
W e	will	revitalise	our	brand	by	bringing	
it 	 to 	 life 	 in 	 our 	 Own 	 Stores, 	 creating 	 a	
“theatre 	 of 	 the 	 senses” 	 that 	 puts 	 the 	 special	
touch	back	into	the	customer	experience.	
K ey 	 to 	 delivering 	 this 	 is 	 the 	 creation 	 of	
a 	 differentiated 	 and 	 less 	 seasonal 	 offer .	
Whilst	the	brand	will	always	be	famous	
for	the	key	seasonal	events,	we	will	grow	
the	relevance	for	other	gif ting	occasions	
in 	 our 	 customers’ 	 lives, 	 for 	 example	
b i r t h d a y s ,	anniversaries,	congratulations,	
or	simple	“I	love	you”,	“thank	you”	and	
“just	because”	moments.
W e 	 will 	 deliver 	 this 	 by 	 developing 	 and	
introducing 	 new 	 products 	 including 	 a	
new 	 range 	 of 	 delightful, 	 innovative 	 and	
affordable 	 gif ts 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 introducing 	 a	
new 	 flagship 	 range 	 of 	 boxed 	 chocolates. 	
W e 	 will 	 significantly 	 increase 	 the 	 number 	 of 	
oppor tunities	to	personalise	and	customise	
gif ts,	building	on	our	heritage	for	the	icing	
of	names	and	messages.	W e	will	introduce	
some	of	the	successful	lines	from	our	
Thorntons	Direct	channel	into	our	stores,	
including	hampers	and	Alphabet	T ruffles.	
All	of	this	will	be	implemented	in	stores	
that 	 are 	 easier 	 to 	 shop 	 in 	 and 	 that 	 highlight	
the	quality	of	our	product,	suppor ted	by	
engaging 	 and 	 friendly 	 store 	 teams. 	 Our 	 Own	
Stores 	 will 	 be 	 the 	 place 	 to 	 come 	 for 	 the 	 “full”	
Thorntons	brand	experience.
I	am	pleased	to	repor t	that	we	are	already	
making 	 progress 	 in 	 delivering 	 these	
improvements. 	 In 	 May 	 of 	 this 	 year 	 we	
successfully	introduced	a	number	of	new	
initiatives	in	two	of	our	stores.	These	new	
initiatives	included	new	fixtures	and	visual	
merchandising 	 approaches, 	 many 	 of 	 which	
will 	 be 	 rolled 	 out 	 across 	 the 	 estate	
this 	 autumn.
Achieving	this	transformation	over	the	next	
three 	 years 	 will 	 deliver 	 a 	 stronger , 	 de-risked	
business 	 in 	 a 	 position 	 of 	 strength 	 for	
sustainable	and	profitable	growth	in	the	
future.	There	is	no	doubt	that	we	will	be	
under taking	this	transformation	in	the	face	
of 	 considerable 	 and 	 unprecedented 	 adverse	
economic	headwinds.	These	headwinds,	
never theless, 	 reinforce 	 our 	 need 	 for 	 change.
This	transformation	will	not	be	possible	
without	the	continued	suppor t	from	the	
passionate	and	committed	people	across	
Thorntons,	including	our	loyal	franchisees.	
Our	colleagues’	response	to	our	plan	has	
been	positive	and	enthusiastic.	I	would	
like	to	express	my	thanks	for	all	their	hard	
work	and	effor ts	over	the	past	year	and	for	
their	continued	suppor t	during	the	exciting	
and	challenging	period	ahead	of	us.	
Jonathan Hart
Chief Executive
6	September	2011
