 thorn tons plc | annu al repor t and a ccoun t s 2010 6
The focus for 2009 was on guiding the 
business through the recession without 
losing sight of the long-term strategy. 
Although Retail, with the exception of 
Thorntons Direct, underperformed, growth 
in the Sales & Operations channel was 
particularly strong. Overall sales remained 
flat at £215.0 million during the year. This 
figure includes 4.7% growth in Thorntons’ 
branded products to £212.0 million, and 
a planned reduction in private label sales. 
The Thorntons brand continued to gain 
market share in the UK chocolate market 
over the period and now has circa 7% 
of the market. Reported pre-tax profit 
before exceptionals was £6.1 million 
(2009: £6.3 million) whilst debt was 
down £0.7 million at £26.0 million 
(2009: £26.7 million).
We continued to face challenging 
market conditions over the period and, 
in response to this, managed our costs 
prudently. The decision to restructure the 
cost base in Operations, the Call Centre 
and Head Office, had a positive impact 
and the Board expects to see the full 
benefit of these actions coming through 
in the next 18 months. Investment 
in Retail continued with 15 stores 
refurbished during the year. Additionally, 
in Manufacturing, nearly £1.6 million 
was invested in a new moulding line, 
which will increase productivity in the 
factory and, even more importantly, has 
improved the quality and appearance 
of our products.
Product innovation
Innovation continues to be a key element 
of the Company’s strategy and over the 
period within Retail, two new product lines 
were launched – Metropolitan, a more 
modern gift box of ganaches, pralines 
devel oping
br and equity + inno vative produc t s
chief executive’s report
_1_THT_ar10_front.indd   6 21/09/2010   13:05:15 thorn tons plc | annu al repor t and a ccoun t s 2010 7
Going forward in Commercial, a refreshed 
Classic Collection is being launched, 
which includes two new flavours. 
Additionally, the range of hanging 
bags, delicious chocolate 
smothered confectionery, has 
been refreshed and later in 
the year, a new ‘Love Milk’ 
box, a selection of our 
favourite milk chocolates, 
which is aimed at the 
younger market, is being 
launched. A number of 
seasonal specialities are 
also being added for next 
Christmas and Easter.
Later this year, a new biscuit and 
chilled dessert range is being launched. 
The biscuits will be sold into both the 
Retail and Commercial channels, whilst 
the chilled desserts will be sold through 
the Commercial channel only.
Retail
Overall Retail sales, including Own 
Stores, Franchise and Thorntons Direct, 
declined 3.7% to £152.0 million 
(2009: £157.8 million).
Own Stores
Sales in Own Stores fell 3.6% to 
£129.8 million over the period (2009: 
£134.5 million). The larger part of this 
decline was experienced in the second half 
with sales decreasing 5.3% against the 
comparative period last year. Like for like 
sales declined by 3.5% for the whole 
year. The decline was a combination 
of a reduction in the number of customer 
transactions, in addition to significant levels 
of discounting of stocks, particularly during 
the latter part of the second half of the year.
and meltaways; and Melts, a single 
variant chocolate with a praline centre. 
In addition, the Paris and Milan lines 
were extended to the Continental range. 
Our Christmas, Valentine’s, Mothering 
Sunday and Easter ranges were all 
refreshed and our seasonal exclusives 
sold particularly well. 
Moments continued to perform strongly 
during 2010 and the coming few weeks 
will see the addition of a new strawberry 
flavoured chocolate. Similarly, in January, 
a caramel variant will be added to the 
Melts range. 
We added coffee, which became the new 
number one best seller, and our award 
winning pistachio flavour, to our Chocolate 
Block range and, more recently, added the 
new white chocolate block with coconut 
and lime. A Haiti charity chocolate block 
will be introduced in early 2011. 
Our newly refreshed Classics range arrived 
in stores in July and the newly refreshed 
Continental range will be available in 
October. As part of this refresh, a new 
Milk box and a Limited Edition box are 
also being introduced. 
In August, we launched a new range of 
indulgent bars and a new impulse range, 
which contain Mini Blocks and Little Treat 
packs. Our refreshed sharing range has 
also very recently hit the shelves.
Ahead of Christmas, packaging of our 
all time favourite products has been 
refreshed and new seasonal lines have 
been added in order to keep broadening 
the Company’s appeal to new customers. 
Additionally, Thorntons Direct will see 
a refresh of all its hampers.
the thorntons brand 
continued to gain 
market share in the 
uK chocolate market 
over the period and 
now has circa 7% 
of the market.
 
 
In July, our newly refreshed 
Classics range hit stores and 
in October the newly refreshed 
Continental range will 
be available.
_1_THT_ar10_front.indd   7 21/09/2010   13:05:18 thorn tons plc | annu al repor t and a ccoun t s 2010 8
in particular the “design your own box” 
with a personal photo printed on the lid, 
all contributed to this strong growth. 
Sales & Operations
Commercial sales
Commercial sales, once again, delivered 
good growth of 9.8% to £62.6 million 
(2009: £57.0 million). Sales of Thorntons’ 
branded product (which excludes private 
label sales) grew by 34.3%. This increase 
was driven by the boxed chocolate ranges, 
which grew by more than 48% over the 
period. These ranges were developed 
exclusively for each of our major customers. 
Thorntons’ Moments also continued to 
build on the success of last year, with 
sales growing over 89% in its second year 
of trading and Scrumptious and Melts, 
two new products, were launched during 
the year.
Thorntons now has more than 30% 
(2009: 25%) of the inlaid box chocolate 
market in the UK (A.C. Nielsen, July 2010 
excluding sales in Thorntons Retail).
Manufacturing operations
Raw material prices have dramatically 
increased during the year with cocoa 
prices rising 25% and reaching levels 
not seen for well over 30 years. This has 
been the subject of wide coverage in the 
press recently. Butter has increased even 
more, by more than 66% since July 2009. 
Management has continued to seek 
to mitigate these price increases through 
a mixture of hedging via forward cover 
purchasing and product and 
ingredient re-engineering.
Retail continued
Own Stores continued
During the course of the year our Own Store 
estate remained relatively stable with four 
closures and one new opening and one 
re-site, ending the year with 377 stores 
(2009: 379). 
Franchise
Franchise sales for the period declined 
14.7% to £13.0 million (2009: £15.3 million), 
as they continued to be affected by the 
collapse of Birthdays Limited. Birthdays 
Limited went into administration in 
May 2009, during which time we lost 94 
Franchise stores. However, over the year 
we continued to rebuild the estate and it is 
now at 222 stores, only 32 short of the 
number of Franchisees in April 2009. 
As a special mention, I would like to thank 
the Franchise team for their continued 
hard work in opening so many stores in 
one year, and our independent Franchisees, 
many of whom have opened stores in 
addition to the ones they already operate.
Thorntons Direct
Overall Thorntons Direct sales grew by 
an impressive 15.1% to £9.2 million 
(2009: £8.0 million) during the period 
and showed an improving trend with 
growth of 22.1% in H2 after 11.5% 
in H1. Corporate sales are back to levels 
seen prior to the recession as a result 
of our sales efforts in the leisure and 
hospitality sectors. Sales from the web 
site grew by 12%. Improvements to the 
functionality of the web site, increased 
marketing activity and further 
developments in personalisation, 
impro ving
our retail perf orm ance + produc tivity
chief executive’s report continued
Thorntons branded product 
up 4.7%.
Continued investment in stores 
and manufacturing operations.
41 Franchise openings in 
the year.
Commercial Thorntons branded 
product sales up 34.3%.
Online sales grew by 12%.
_1_THT_ar10_front.indd   8 21/09/2010   13:05:22 thorn tons plc | annu al repor t and a ccoun t s 2010 9
As a result of value engineering activities, 
benefits coming through from the 
investment in the robotic packing line 
and packaging price improvements, 
productivity in operations improved 
significantly over the period. Further 
improvements are expected when the 
new moulding line is fully commissioned 
in the next few weeks.
Distribution costs also declined during 
the year as we benefited from the decision 
to outsource distribution in the South East 
of England at the beginning of the 
financial year.
Service levels to Own Stores and 
Commercial customers continued to 
improve and consistently exceeded 
96% during the year (2009: 96%).
Export sales
In September last year we announced 
our intention to dedicate more resources 
to exploring the export opportunity. 
Good progress has been made in building 
routes to new markets, particularly 
in Central Europe, Duty Free and in 
further developing the business in 
the Republic of Ireland. Whilst still 
small, these opportunities are 
providing us with the necessary 
commercial experience to 
accelerate growth in the future. 
For the period under review, 
Export sales achieved £2.7 million 
(2009: £2.0 million).
Mike Davies
Chief Executive
7 September 2010
 
 
Thorntons’ Moments also 
continued to build on the 
success of last year , with 
Commercial sales growing 
over 89% in its second year 
of trading.
_1_THT_ar10_front.indd   9 21/09/2010   13:05:32
