 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.thorntons.co.uk
2
Chairman’s statement
Thorntons	achieved	a	respectable	increase	
in	sales	of	1.7%	to	£218.3	million	
(2010:	£214.6	million)	in	a	year	which	
saw	extremely	difficult	trading	conditions,	
reflecting 	 the 	 continuing 	 strength 	 of 	
the	brand.	
Last	year	we	announced	that	restructuring	
the	R etail	estate	was	necessar y	because	of	
the	deteriorating	conditions	on	many	high	
streets 	 as 	 a 	 result 	 of 	 the 	 current 	 challenging	
economic	and	financial	environment	and	
the 	 changes 	 in 	 customer 	 shopping 	 behaviour	
that 	 have 	 taken 	 place 	 over 	 the 	 past 	 decade.	
F ollowing 	 the 	 arrival 	 in 	 Januar y 	 2011 	 of 	 our	
new	Chief	Executive,	Jonathan	Har t,	we	
completed	a	strategic	review ,	the	results	
of 	 which 	 were 	 presented 	 in 	 June 	 and	
demonstrate 	 a 	 clear 	 plan 	 to 	 transform	
and 	 de-risk 	 our 	 business 	 over 	 the 	 next	
three 	 years. 	 This 	 plan 	 will 	 create 	 a 	 profitable	
and	rebalanced	organisation ,	a	customer -
focused	multi-channel	business	and	a	
revitalised brand. 
In 	 2006 	 almost 	 80% 	 of 	 the 	 entire	
production	of	chocolates	at	Thorntons	
was	sold	through	our	Own	Stores	and	our	
F ranchise	network.	Anticipating	the	risk	
of	this	ver tically	integrated	retail	model,	
in	2006	we	accelerated	the	development	
of	our	Commercial	sales	to	supermarkets	
as 	 well 	 as 	 growing 	 our 	 online 	 sales 	 through	
Thorntons 	 Direct. 	 The 	 objective 	 of 	 this 	 change	
was	to	“decouple”	our	manufacturing	
operations	from	our	Own	Stores.
This	strategy	has	proved	highly	successful.	
The 	 Commercial 	 channel 	 has 	 grown 	 strongly	
over recent years and last year sales increased 
25.9% 	 to 	 £78.8 	 million 	 (2010: 	 £62.6 	 million). 
Through	our	Commercial	c h a n n e l 	 w e 	 n o w	
lead	the	inlaid	box	chocolate	market	
in	terms	of	market	share	and,	through	
our	actions,	are	also	the	main	driver	
of	growth	in	our	market.	
Through	this	development	Thorntons	is	
now	in	a	good	position	to	deal	with	the	
underper formance	and	restructuring	of	
the	Own	Stores	estate	without	causing	
any	significant	impact	on	our	
manufacturing	capacity .
W e	have	concluded	that	we	can	profitably	
and	sustainably	manage	an	Own	Store	
estate	of	between	180	and	200	stores.	
In	light	of	this,	over	the	next	three	years,	
we	plan	to	close	up	to	180	of	our	Own	
Stores.	In	the	majority	of	these	locations,	
however ,	we	plan	to	open	franchises.	
This	restructuring	of	our	Own	Stores	retail	
estate	is	fur ther	suppor ted	by	a	favourable	
lease 	 expir y 	 profile. 	 179 	 of 	 our 	 leases 	
expire	over	the	next	three	years	of	which	
we	plan	to	close	two -thirds,	thus	capital	
expenditure	requirements	to	maintain	
a 	 quality 	 store 	 por tfolio 	 will 	 be	
substantially reduced.
The	current	restructuring	of	the	Thorntons	
business 	 has 	 led 	 to 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 exceptional	
costs: 	 impairment 	 and 	 onerous 	 lease	
charges; 	 provision 	 to 	 cover 	 the 	 costs	
associated	with	the	outsourcing	of	the	
warehousing	and	distribution	functions;	
and	bank	refinancing.	P re-tax	profit	before	
exceptionals 	 for 	 the 	 period 	 was 	 £4.3 	 million	
(2010:	£6.9	million).	The	combined	
total	of 	 these 	 exceptional 	 items 	 amounts	
t o 	£5.4	m illion	for	the	period	(2010:	
£0.8	 million)	 resulting	 in	 an	 overall	 pre-tax	
loss 	 for 	 the 	 period 	 of 	 £1.1 	 million	
(2010:	pre-tax	profit	of	£6.1	million).	
In	June	2011	the	banking	facilities	were	
renewed 	 and 	 the 	 Group 	 now 	 has 	 committed	
banking	facilities	with	HSBC,	Lloyds	TSB	
and 	 Barclays 	 totalling 	 £57.5 	 million 	 through	
to	October	2015,	and	an	overdraf t	facility	
of	£5.0	million .	
In summary
  Thorntons achieved a 
respectable increase in sales 
of 1.7% to £218.3 million 
(2010: £214.6 million)
  The Commercial channel has 
grown strongly over recent years. 
Last year sales increased 25.9% 
to £78.8 million, providing the 
platform from which to deliver 
our transformation plan
  The Group now has committed 
banking facilities with HSBC, 
Lloyds TSB and Barclays totalling 
£57.5 million through to October 
2015, and an overdraft facility 
of £5.0 million
  The Board is therefore 
recommending the payment 
of a nominal final dividend of 
0.25p (2010: 4.10p) making 
a total dividend for the year 
of 2.20p (2010: 6.05p)  www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3
Thorntons	believes	in	delivering	a	
s u s t a i n a b l e 	 and 	 progressive 	 dividend 	 return	
to 	 its 	 shareholders. 	 However , 	 given 	 the	
circumstances	of	the	last	financial	year	it	
has 	 not 	 been 	 possible 	 to 	 maintain 	 the 	 current	
level 	 of 	 dividend. 	 The 	 Board 	 is 	 therefore	
recommending 	 the 	 payment 	 o f 	 a 	 n o m i n a l	
final 	 dividend 	 of 	 0.25p 	 (2010: 	 4.10p) 	
making 	 a 	 total 	 dividend 	 for 	 the 	 year 	 of	
2.20p 	 (2010: 	 6.05p) 	 and 	 expects 	 to	
move	to	a	dividend	cover	in	line	with	the	
sector	average	over	the	coming	years.
Directors and employees 
Our 	 exciting 	 new 	 plans 	 have 	 been	
communicated 	 and 	 discussed 	 widely	
throughout	Thorntons	including	with	
ever y	store 	 manager 	 and 	 many 	 franchisees.	
T h e 	 r e s p o n s e 	from	across	the	business	has	
been	positive	and	my	thanks	go	to	all	our	
colleagues	for	suppor ting	these	changes	
and	also	for	their	solid	and	wholehear ted	
contribution	over	the	past	year .
In	Januar y	2011	Jonathan	Har t	joined	us	
as	the	new	CEO	of	Thorntons	taking	over	
from	Mark	R obson	who	had	ser ved	on	
an	interim	basis	following	the	depar ture	
of 	 Mike 	 Davies 	 in 	 September 	 2010.	
Mike’s	experience	in	brand	marketing	
and	manufacturing	operations	were	
instrumental	in	developing	the	successful	
growth	of	our	Commercial	channel	and	
improving	efficiency	in	our	factor y ;	he	
leaves	with	our	thanks	and	we	wish	him	
well.	Mark	has	now	rever ted	to	his	role	as	
F inance	Director	and	I	am	grateful	to	him	
for 	 covering 	 both 	 roles 	 during 	 this	
c h a l l e n g i n g 	interim	period.
At 	 the 	 end 	 of 	 June 	 P eter 	 W right, 	 our	
Marketing 	 Director , 	 resigned 	 from 	 the	
Board 	 and 	 lef t 	 Thorntons. 	 I 	 would 	 like	
to 	 thank 	 P eter 	 for 	 his 	 contribution 	 to 	 the	
business	over	the	past	four	years	and	wish	
him	well	for	the	future.
In	appointing	Jonathan	Har t	we	have	
recruited	an	experienced	Chief	Executive	
with 	 extensive 	 retail 	 and 	 brand 	 management	
experience.	He	ser ved	on	the	Executive	
Board	at	Dixons	and	latterly	managed	the	
successful	growth	of	Caffè	Nero	for	the	
past	five	years	as	Managing	Director .
The	Board	has	also	decided	to	enhance	its	
structure	in	line	with	best	practice	and	will	
be	commencing	a	search	for	an	additional	
two 	 independent 	 directors 	 to 	 join 	 the 	 Board.
Outlook
W e	anticipate	that	the	weakness	in	footfall	
and 	 consumer 	 sentiment 	 experienced	
through 	 our 	 Own 	 Store 	 and 	 F ranchise	
channels 	 during 	 the 	 first 	 half 	 of 	 2011 	
will	continue	at	least	into	2012.	W e	are,	
however ,	looking	for ward	to	another	strong	
year	of	growth	in	our	Commercial	channel	
as	we	gain	fur ther	distribution	and	market	
share.	Our	confidence	is	reinforced	by	a	
healthy	order	book	for	Christmas	2011.	
W e	expect	Thorntons	Direct	to	grow	in	line	
with	the	online	gif ting	market.	W e	have	
budgeted 	 our 	 costs 	 and 	 expenditure	
prudently	and	aggressively	continue	to	
pursue	oppor tunities	to	improve	business	
efficiency 	 and 	 customer 	 ser vice 	 accordingly .
As	we	embark	on	the	implementation	of	
our	new	strategy	our	foremost	challenge	
is	to	deliver	a	successful	Christmas	2011.	
It	is	during	this	key	selling	season	that	
customers	will	star t	to	see	improvements	
to	their	shopping	experience	in	our	
Own	Stores.
John von Spreckelsen
Chairman
6	September	2011
Following the arrival 
in January 2011 of our 
new Chief Executive, 
Jonathan Hart, we 
completed a strategic 
review, the results 
of which were 
presented in June and 
demonstrate a clear 
plan to transform 
and de-risk our 
business over the 
next three years. 
