 Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that Thorntons 
continues to make good progress and that, 
despite tougher market conditions, sales 
rose by 11.9%, profit before taxation was 
up by 19.6 % and earnings per share by 
13.8%. Sales have increased across all 
channels: our own stores, franchise stores, 
commercial customers and Thorntons 
Direct. We have now delivered steady 
growth for seven consecutive quarters.
Underpinning this growth is the strategy 
we have been implementing to return 
Thorntons to sustainable, long-term 
profitable growth by:
  Investing in the brand to give it greater 
relevance and a more premium feel
 Developing innovative new products
 Modernising the in-store environment
  Further expanding our Commercial 
and Direct business
 Attracting and retaining the best people
We remain committed to expanding our 
own store portfolio as well as the number 
of franchise stores, despite a more challenging 
economic environment which affects the 
property market. Our success in all four 
channels is encouraging and will continue 
to provide us with a solid platform from 
which to present our continually evolving 
range of quality products to new and 
loyal customers.
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong. 
Operating cash flow before working capital 
movements improved by £2.1m to £21.9m 
which, together with our committed 
banking facilities, enables us to fund the 
continuing expansion of the business.
The progress we have made during the past 
year would not have been possible without 
the hard work and commitment of all our 
staff and I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank them for all their efforts.
Since the year end, on 1 August 2008, 
Dominic Prendergast stepped down from 
the Board. I would like to thank him for his 
contribution to the business over the past 
seven years and wish him well for the future. 
Thorntons’ prospects are good and I remain optimistic about 
its future. We are well placed to meet the challenges we face 
and to achieve our financial goal of long-term sustainable growth 
in earnings per share, supported by a strong balance sheet. 
04 Thorntons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
_1_THT_ar08_front.indd   4 19/09/2008   09:05:36 We have a highly experienced team, 
whose focus it is to continue to implement 
our growth strategy. Thorntons’ prospects 
are good and I remain optimistic about 
its future. We are well placed to meet the 
challenges we face and to achieve our 
financial goal of long-term sustainable 
growth in earnings per share, supported 
by a strong balance sheet. 
The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 4.85p per share which, subject 
to shareholder approval, will be paid on 
28 November 2008. 
John von Spreckelsen
Chairman
9 September 2008
Dessert gallery
Chocolate fountain
Thorntons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05
_1_THT_ar08_front.indd   5 19/09/2008   09:06:18
