 5
Chief Executive’ s 
Review
THUS is a young business approaching its fifth anniversary as a listed
company. The strength and viability of our business becomes more
evident with each passing year. 
Uncertainty in our market from competitive intensity remains as tough as before, yet
THUS continues to prevail. THUS’s strength in providing innovative new services and
being responsive to our customers’ needs and expectations is our key differentiator .
We believe our service innovation record in the UK is second to none, and our
responsiveness to our customers is a strong measure of the quality of our employees. 
In 1999 we set out our strategy for the UK market. This strategy involved a heavy 
up-front investment in network and service capability throughout the UK. It is a ten-year
journey, and in November of this year we will have reached the halfway point. Our
business model defined the financial metrics we needed to deliver to prove the financial
viability of our business: EBITDA
1
positive; cash flow
2
positive; operating profit; and,
finally, a return on capital employed greater than our cost of capital. We are on target 
at this halfway point: we became cash flow positive in Q3, a quarter earlier than we
had originally anticipated – and we remain convinced that our strategy is robust, and
focused to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
Our headline revenue growth was 14% for the year, and 18% in the second half. 
Our EBITDA increased by 61%; our operating loss reduced by 58%; and cash
outflow before financing was reduced by £34.1 million, with a positive net inflow 
of £5.7 million in the second half. We believe that these are impressive results
and justify our confidence that we will achieve an attractive return on investment
in the longer-term.
The consistency of our reputation for quality and service innovation, coupled to the
scalability of our network and services, have now positioned us strongly in the managed
services arena where lasting value is created. In this segment our contracted revenue 
grew strongly, with the average contract increasing in value. During the year we won
significant managed services contracts with Capital Radio, Southern Water, GWR
Group, and preferred supplier status with Glasgow City Council. These contracts,
coupled to our existing customer relationships and other new contracts such as Virgin
Group, T ele2 and Amserve, accelerated growth in our key data and telecoms division 
to 24% over the course of the year .
Internet services enjoyed strong double-digit growth with revenue from our broadband
DSL portfolio now exceeding revenue from our dial-up customer base. This is a key
milestone as we transition our business from old to new, with a new generation of 
IP-enabled services for the corporate market and small and medium sized businesses.
Our strength in winning new contracts, coupled to our focused and disciplined approach
to our operating costs, has proven the flexibility and robustness of our business model.
Growth from incremental revenue now exceeds capital expenditure. We believe THUS
is the first alternative carrier to have achieved this, and become sustainably free cash flow
positive. These are two critical measures to prove the viability of the alternative carrier
business model to achieve the longer-term goal of a return on capital employed greater
than our cost of capital. This year our achievements demonstrate that we are well
on track towards that objective. 
Our balance sheet is strong; our quality of service remains class leading; our service
innovation record is consistently impressive; and our list of blue chip customers continues
to grow longer each year as our credibility and reputation wins wider respect. Our
objective is to become the pre-eminent alternative to BT in the UK business services
market: we remain firmly focused on achieving that goal.
William Allan, 
Chief Executive
1
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
2
Cash flow after returns on investments and servicing of finance
and capital expenditure and financial investment. 6
People
Our commitment to teamwork enables us to work
passionately as one team, with one vision and
one voice, keeping us ahead of the competition.
