 06
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
c hief Executive’s report
Making progress on our strategy and sales
We have made encouraging 
progress with the transformation 
of Thorntons over the past year. 
Our strategy continues to be executed 
well and has started to deliver positive 
results, and our evolving multi-channel 
structure is a key strength. Despite the 
continuing economic challenges facing 
our customers and the business in 
general we are pleased that we have 
established a positive momentum. 
The year can be summarised as one 
of improved sales, reduced costs and 
increased profits. 
Sales in the year increased by 1.8% 
to £221.1 million (2012: £217.1 million). 
Pre-exceptional operating expenses 
reduced by £3.0 million to £91.3 million 
(2012: £94.3 million). Reported pre-tax 
profit before exceptional items was 
£5.6 million (2012: £0.9 million). 
Our customers have responded well to 
our new products and our multi-channel 
approach ensures that our ranges are 
available where they want to buy them. 
This is reflected in further improvement 
in our key market shares.
In line with our strategy and as detailed 
further in the Finance Director’s report, 
from the beginning of the 2014 financial 
year we have reorganised our activities 
into two divisions: Fast Moving Consumer 
Goods (“FMCG”), which was formerly 
Sales & Operations, and Retail. This 
reflects the transformation of our 
business and fits with our long-term 
vision for the business. 
Strategy
Having completed the second year of our 
three-year plan to transform the business 
and restore profits, we are encouraged by 
the progress that we have made and have 
now begun to develop our objectives and 
plans beyond this period. Our strategy is 
underpinned by three main objectives:
Rebalance our sales to ensure that 
our products are available where our 
customers want them. We are making 
good progress with reducing our Own 
Stores estate towards a sustainable and 
profitable level for the longer term. Our 
store closure programme is on track and 
our FMCG division and the UK Commercial 
sales channel within it will respectively 
become the largest division and channel 
by the end of the 2014 financial year.
Revitalise the Thorntons brand, developing 
our year-round chocolate gifting range 
whilst also retaining our strength and 
reputation for the key seasons. We have 
been working hard to establish and 
articulate our new brand positioning 
and visual identity and to establish clear 
product categorisation. We have begun 
to refresh our entire range and improve 
the way in which our products are 
merchandised across our channels. 
Restore our profitability to industry 
competitive returns over the medium 
to long term. We have continued to focus 
on improving margins and controlling 
costs across the business and have seen 
the actions we have taken increase 
pre-exceptional earnings before interest 
and taxation (“EBIT”) margin to 3.3% 
(2012: 1.3%). Although we still have some 
way to go to restore EBIT margins to the 
industry average we have clear plans 
in place to continue this improvement 
and are confident in doing so.
Market opportunity
The chocolate market has maintained 
growth in recent years. The overall 
chocolate market was worth £3.9 billion. 
Consumers are increasingly engaged 
with chocolate in response to the austere 
economic climate. The likelihood of 
purchasing chocolate as a treat, to share, 
or as a gift is increasing. More than ever, 
consumers increasingly view chocolates 
as an affordable and acceptable alternative 
to higher priced gift categories. 
Our strategy both reflects and supports 
these trends. The opportunity for us 
to grow our business is significant. 
Thorntons has a core of over four million 
loyal customers, about 8% of UK adults. 
Taking the market as a whole, over 50% 
of all adults (26 million people) purchased 
boxed chocolates or chocolate 
assortments in the past year. 
•	 Having completed the second year of 
our three-year plan to transform the 
business and restore profits, we are 
encouraged by the progress that we 
have made and have now begun to 
develop our objectives and plans 
beyond this period
•	 We are focusing on delivering product 
which will strengthen our credentials 
as a year-round gifting retailer as well 
as further underpinning our leading 
position in the key seasons
 Summary
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   6 9/24/2013   10:41:36 AM 07
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
We are a famous British chocolate maker, providing quality gifts for over 100 years. Through our 
chocolate and our people we help our customers say important things to those they care about. 
Together we make every day special.
Who we are and what makes us different
Our brand values 
Mass‑ premium  
market positioning
Mass/mainstream
premium/luxury
Read more about our brand progress on page 09
Helping our  
customers communicate  
through chocolate
Thinking  
of you
Happy  
birthday
Congratulations!
Thank 
you
I love you
Our brand positioning
Strengthening  
our brand through  
year‑ round relevance 
Impulsive 
gifting
For others
For me
New  
investment  
and growth
c ontinued 
investment  
and growth
planned  
gifting
(e.g. Christmas, 
birthdays)
Creativity Excellence Bringing people together
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   7 9/24/2013   10:41:36 AM 08
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
c hief Executive’s report
continued
UK Commercial sales
UK Commercial sales grew by 11.2% to 
£88.7 million (2012: £79.8 million). We saw 
further progress in breadth and depth of 
distribution for our year-round products. 
Our share of the boxed chocolate market 
increased to 11.9% (2012: 11.7%) and our 
leading share of the core inlaid boxed 
chocolate market improved further to 
35.2% (2012: 33.1%) as we launched our 
Continental brand into the major grocers.
We saw excellent growth in the key 
seasons of Christmas and Easter. Our 
share of Christmas specialities grew to 
4.3% (2012: 2.8%) as customers responded 
well to our Advent calendars, selection 
boxes and Santa and Rudolph models. 
At Easter we saw a growth in share to 4.8% 
(2012: 4.0%) with a strong sell-through 
across our Easter range. Looking ahead, 
we anticipate further growth in these 
key seasons. 
We have and will continue to invest 
in improving our customer account 
management and category management 
expertise as we plan for continued 
growth of this channel.
International sales
International sales grew to £6.1 million 
(2012: £3.9 million). A year ago we 
set out our plans for our International 
channel. Over the past year we have 
been encouraged by the response that 
we have had from the markets in our 
first phase of development. In particular 
we have experienced growth in sales 
in Australia and South Africa along 
with further growth in sales in the 
United Arab Emirates (“UAE”). Our 
tax and duty-free business continues 
to progress well, both in the UK and 
in the UAE.
We are committed to commercial 
distribution through the major 
supermarkets in these countries and 
are comfortable with this early progress. 
We continue to improve our knowledge 
of this sector and will invest sensibly 
and modestly to support this growth.
Private Label
Private Label sales grew to £6.3 million 
(2012: £1.3 million) as a result of the 
decision taken in early 2012 to re-enter 
this sector where we can deliver an 
acceptable margin and where the 
Thorntons brand is not in direct 
competition with the products 
we supply.
Manufacturing operations
Leveraging our manufacturing overheads 
as we grow remains central to our strategy 
of rebalancing the business. Over the 
course of the year overall output has 
grown by 4% (2012: 3.7%) to record levels. 
This growth has been achieved whilst 
controlling our cost base, retaining 
excellent customer service levels and 
substantially improving product quality 
performance. Targeted investment to 
maintain the infrastructure, improve 
our capacity and drive efficiencies 
continues with the addition of a third 
robotic packing line which will be 
operational prior to our peak 2013 
Christmas period.
Our purchasing strategy continues 
to drive significant business benefits 
regarding productivity, capacity and 
risk mitigation in both direct materials 
and indirect spend. 
As we have expanded our manufacturing 
output we have been able to reward 
loyal, skilled, temporary employees 
with permanent contracts and are now 
one of the most significant industrial 
employers in the local community.
Retail division
Total Retail sales, including Own Stores, 
Franchise and Thorntons Direct, declined by 
9.3% to £120.0 million (2012: £132.1 million).
Own Stores
Total sales declined by 8.0% to 
£102.5 million (2012: £111.4 million), 
primarily as a result of the continuing 
store closure programme. During the 
period 35 stores closed (2012: 36) in 
line with our plan, one of which was 
resited, leaving a total of 296 stores 
at the year end (2012: 330 stores).
“ We approach the year ahead 
with continued caution about 
the economic environment 
but with a confidence that 
the actions we have taken 
will continue to deliver 
positive results. ”
Market opportunity continued
The UK gifting market is worth 
approximately £38 billion, of which 
chocolate gifting accounts for £516 million 
and is growing well. Thorntons has the 
opportunity to grow market share and 
ultimately grow the chocolate gifting 
market though our focus on year-round 
gifting, in particular the market for 
birthday gifts which accounts for 
one-third of the overall gifting market.
The year in review
FMCG division (formerly 
Sales & Operations)
Total sales in the FMCG division 
increased by 19.0% to £101.1 million 
(2012: £85.0 million) as all three 
channels – UK Commercial sales, 
International sales and Private 
Label – saw strong growth.
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   8 9/24/2013   10:41:36 AM 09
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Revitalising our brand
Clear brand positioning
A new master brand identity
New product categorisation and supporting range refresh
Improved in-store experience across our channels
Read more about brand positioning on page 07
NEW Classics range  
Jul 2013 launch
NEW Nostalgia range  
Sep 2013 launch
NEW Indulgence range  
Jan 2015 launch
Creating year-round relevance through our products
Further store refits New finishing touches New event bays Building the FMc G brand
Strength in season
Further range 
refresh
Remaining ranges 
Jun 2014 and 2015
New logo New colour palette New emblem New corner architecture
Strength out of season
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   9 9/24/2013   10:41:54 AM 10
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
c hief Executive’s report
continued
The year in review continued
Own Stores continued
Given the continued challenges for 
the high street economy we made 
pleasing progress during the year. 
Overall like-for-like sales were down 
0.8% (2012: down 3.8%); however 
we saw growth in like-for-like sales 
across each of the key seasons in 
the second half of the financial year 
(Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day, Easter 
and Father’s Day) resulting in a small 
like-for-like growth for the second half 
overall. This achievement reflects 
the significant effort and investment 
made by the teams in improving 
the customer experience through 
engaging with our customers, further 
improving merchandising and focusing 
on personalisation. 
We refitted eleven stores to our new 
format during the year and have been 
encouraged by their performance to 
date. Our refurbished stores clearly 
demonstrate our ambition for these 
to be destinations where our brand 
is brought to life. We plan a further 
20 to 25 refurbishments during the 
course of the 2014 financial year.
Franchise
Franchise sales declined by 20.6% to 
£8.5 million (2012: £10.7 million) primarily 
as a result of the administration of our 
major franchise partner in May 2012. 
Despite this we ended the year with 
186 franchise locations (2012: 177), 
reflecting 20 openings and eleven 
closures during the period. Despite 
the challenges for the independent 
business in the current economic 
climate, we consider the addition of 
20 new franchise locations powerful 
evidence of the attraction of the 
Thorntons brand to the card and gift 
retail market. Of these new locations 
ten were “full format” and ten were 
our “small format”. During the period 
four locations underwent the new 
franchise fit-out, reflecting the 
new brand visual identity. 
Business performance in the last quarter 
of the financial year saw a return to growth 
and demonstrates a positive response 
from franchisees to the new products, 
packaging and promotions as well as 
initiatives to personalise and improve 
the customer experience. 
Thorntons Direct
Sales across both our online consumer 
and our corporate businesses were 
disappointing with overall sales down by 
10.0% to £9.0 million (2012: £10.0 million).
The performance over the past year is 
not a reflection of our customers’ demand 
to buy personalised gifts from us. We 
encountered significant issues with the 
development and late deployment of 
our new website which was launched in 
September 2012 without the planned full 
functionality and consumer offer. This was 
compounded by operational issues during 
our key Christmas trading period which 
led us to moderate our marketing efforts 
in order to protect customer service. Since 
then we have made considerable progress 
towards addressing the issues and our 
website now looks and feels fresh and is 
working well. We are confident that we 
will see a return to growth in the first half 
of the 2014 financial year.
Despite being a small part of our overall 
business, the opportunity for the consumer 
online business remains strong and we 
are continuing to invest appropriately. 
Customers, brand and product innovation
We have been working hard to improve 
our brand’s positioning and visual 
identity, enhancing our product range 
categorisation and packaging and 
delivering outstanding merchandising 
across all our channels. We are in the 
process of delivering a step-change to 
the look and feel of our brand. Increasingly 
we are able to demonstrate this through 
the new branding on our latest packaging, 
refurbished stores, grocery merchandising 
and marketing communications. We have 
created a separate feature in this report 
where we are proud to demonstrate this 
and look forward to sharing further 
significant progress when we report 
in a year’s time.
We are focusing on delivering product 
which will strengthen our credentials 
as a year-round gifting retailer as well 
as further underpinning our leading 
position in the key seasons. 
Our new “Today I Thought of You” 
range of boxed chocolates, along with 
our relaunched models, repackaged 
Alphabet Truffles and fast-growing 
Little Gifts range, demonstrates our 
approach to year-round gifting. This, 
together with a personalised experience 
through icing, gift creations and gift 
wrapping, brings us closer to our objective 
to gain customer reappraisal for Thorntons 
and to encourage an extra purchase each 
year from customers by ensuring a 
year-round relevance for key gifting 
occasions and “just because” moments. 
Our innovative new items for the key 
seasons were well received by our 
customers. At Christmas we achieved 
excellent sales of Advent calendars with 
our new Continental Advent calendar 
for grown-ups being a particular success. 
Our seasonal models saw significant 
growth in sales with again a notable 
success for our new Continental table 
centrepiece. At Easter our lace egg 
demonstrated the artisan skills of our 
Derbyshire team, and we recreated an 
egg from long ago with our Marvellously 
Magnificent Egg, with over 1kg of 
chocolate for the family to share.
During the course of the past year we 
secured the licence to The Snowman 
(and The Snowdog). We consider the 
combination of this Christmas icon and 
the quality and trust associated with 
Thorntons to be a powerful proposition 
for Christmas 2013 and beyond.
Our customers are responding positively to 
the changes we are making. Total UK sales 
of Thorntons-branded products at retail 
prices, including our successful licensed 
items including cakes and biscuits, are 
growing, now significantly in excess of 
£300 million. We are seeing growth in 
spontaneous awareness at a level twice 
that of other brands in our market sector. 
Advocacy is high and increasing, and we 
are observing improvements in customers’ 
positive response to Thorntons focus on 
quality and that the brand is worth paying 
more for. In our Own Stores we have seen 
significant improvement in our measures of 
customer experience. Overall satisfaction 
has increased over the past year to 85% in 
June 2013 (72% in June 2012), the likelihood 
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   10 9/24/2013   10:41:54 AM 11
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
to revisit has grown from 65% in June 2012 
to 76% in June 2013 and the likelihood to 
recommend has grown from 66% to 77% 
over the same period. 
l ooking ahead
We approach the year ahead with 
continued caution about the economic 
environment but with a confidence that 
the actions we have taken will continue 
to deliver positive results. We have 
begun to plan beyond the three-year 
turnaround period to ensure that 
our momentum continues.
We are confident in our strategy of 
Rebalance, Revitalise and Restore and 
intend to maintain the same fundamental 
direction. We are pleased to have 
demonstrated our strategy’s flexibility 
to handle changes in circumstances. 
Our current three-year plan has been 
focused on restoring profitability within 
a broadly flat or low top-line growth; 
the next three years will see us adding 
growth to top-line sales as well.
Rebalancing
FMCG division
Our UK Commercial sales channel 
has seen strong growth over a number 
of years. Our assessment of future 
prospects is positive. We believe that 
there remain significant opportunities 
to maintain this strong growth, including 
further growth at the key seasons of 
Christmas and Easter as well as in the 
convenience and independent sector, 
along with opportunities to work with 
the major grocers to develop richer 
gifting propositions. This channel will 
become the largest by the end of the 
2014 financial year and we envisage 
that this strong growth rate should be 
sustainable for at least the next three years.
Our International sales, despite 
starting from a low base, are anticipated 
to continue to grow strongly. We will 
continue to follow a careful and structured 
country-by-country approach, investing 
and learning from our experience as we 
progress. We believe that this approach 
to “internationalising” our business is the 
most efficient and appropriate in terms 
of the implications for our infrastructure. 
We maintain our previously stated belief 
that this channel will begin to materially 
add to overall profits within the next 
two to four years.
Retail division
Our Own Store restructuring will continue 
with approximately 40 stores closing in 
the coming year. We will continue to take 
advantage of opportunities to extend 
trading on reduced rent and anticipate 
having approximately 20 stores at any 
one time on short-term lease or licences. 
We will continue to pursue options to 
exit further stores in order to deliver our 
original objective of an estate of 180 to 
200 stores and a profitable and sustainable 
portfolio within the next two to three years 
as planned, reflecting a continued and 
significant commitment to the high street.
We have taken the decision to split 
the consumer and business elements of 
Thorntons Direct from the beginning of the 
2014 financial year. The consumer online 
business will increasingly align with our 
Own Stores in terms of offering customer 
flexibility of purchase and delivery. Over 
time, as sales made in store are processed 
and delivered online and vice versa, we 
will be combining these sales and reducing 
our reliance on Own Store like-for-like 
as a key measure.
Regarding the business-to-business 
element of this channel, corporate gifting 
will remain within the Retail division. We 
foresee a good opportunity to improve 
this business through leveraging our 
Own Stores, many of which trade with 
existing corporate customers. Our sales 
to corporate resellers will in future be 
reported in UK Commercial sales 
within the FMCG division. 
Our Franchise channel remains important 
and offers a significant opportunity for 
customers to engage with and reappraise 
the Thorntons brand. We will be working 
with franchisees to ensure that the 
new developments in brand look and 
customer experience are demonstrated 
in their locations.
Revitalising
Our extensive refresh of range and 
packaging will manifest itself over the 
coming year, completing in 2015. This 
culmination of over two years of focused 
effort will deliver a major signal to all 
our customers that Thorntons has been 
transformed. Included within this is a 
constant focus on product innovation 
with clear priorities on year-round 
gifting as well as the key seasons.
We will continue to work on further 
improving our merchandising and 
customer experience across all our 
channels. Our refurbishment programme 
will see around 75 of our best-located Own 
Stores refitted over the next three years 
whilst at the same time we take the best 
operational expertise from these stores 
and introduce it across the entire estate. 
We are not just seeking to improve the 
experience in each of our channels but 
are also working on future plans to knit 
together the experiences across all our 
channels in order that the customer starts 
to see us as one business with one voice 
and one approach. We are also investing 
in the development of our people to 
provide them with the skills, knowledge 
and capability to deliver our plans.
Restoring profitability
We have been able to demonstrate 
improved profitability over the past 
year. We will continue to deploy the 
approaches and disciplines that have 
delivered this progress: product and 
packaging engineering, ingredient 
optimisation and skilful procurement. 
We have implemented a disciplined 
approach to margin and cost 
management that will stand 
us in good stead in the future. 
Our strategy remains: rebalance sales 
and costs in our Retail division where 
net contribution is low and grow our 
FMCG division where net contribution 
margin is significantly higher.
Jonathan Hart
Chief Executive 
10 September 2013
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   11 9/24/2013   10:41:54 AM
