 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.thorntons.co.uk 02
Three years ago we started to implement 
a new strategy, putting the customer at the 
forefront of our thinking and strengthening 
the foundations of the business in line with 
our long-term goals. Since then we have grown 
sales by almost £40 million, from £176 million 
to £215 million, introduced many successful 
new products, increased our multi-channel offer 
and invested significant sums in new point 
of sale systems and factory automation. 
However, Thorntons has not been immune to 
the global economic downturn. The pressures, 
which were most evident during the first half 
of the financial year, resulted in us taking the 
prudent but difficult decision to reduce the 
first half dividend in line with the reduction in 
earnings. I am pleased to report however that, 
following the implementation of a number 
of management initiatives earlier in the year, 
performance in the second half improved 
significantly and we delivered net sales growth 
of 6.1% and reduced the loss before taxation 
and exceptionals by £2.5 million. We also 
reduced net debt over the year by £1.6 million. 
In August 2009, the Company agreed new 
committed bank facilities for three years and 
as a result the Company is well placed to 
continue its long-term growth strategy and 
I remain optimistic about the future.
Our strategy remains just as relevant now 
as it was before the recession and we remain 
focused on driving the business forward and 
delivering sustainable growth in earnings per 
share supported by a strong balance sheet. 
We will achieve this by:
Q  continuing to develop innovative new products
Q  improving our UK retail performance across 
all three channels (Own Stores, Franchise 
and Thorntons Direct)
Q further expanding Commercial sales
Q  improving productivity in Operations 
(purchasing, manufacturing and logistics) 
Q selective development of export sales
In July we took a further step towards 
“decoupling” the business by creating two 
business units namely “Sales & Operations” 
and “Retail”. Barry Bloomer, MD, Sales 
& Operations, will run Commercial sales 
in addition to his existing role in charge of 
Purchasing, Manufacturing and Distribution. 
The Retail Business Unit will continue 
to be headed by the Director of Retail, 
Lysanne McCallion, adding responsibility for 
Thorntons Direct to that for Store Operations, 
Trading, Property and Franchise. While 
there is still a clear interdependence between 
the two business units, the split will allow 
us greater clarity in communicating our 
strategy and an ability to benchmark our 
performance against other successful retailers 
and manufacturers. Marketing, Finance and 
HR remain as single functions supporting 
both businesses.
The progress we have made, most notably 
in the second half, would not have been 
possible without the hard work, dedication 
and commitment of all our staff and I would 
like to express my deep gratitude for all 
their efforts.
Earlier this year, John Wall, our Finance Director, 
informed us of his decision to step down from 
the Board by January 2010. On behalf of 
the Board I would like to thank John for his 
invaluable service to Thorntons over the past 
five years and for his commitment to ensuring 
an orderly transition prior to his departure. 
While we will be sorry to lose John, I am 
delighted that Mark Robson has agreed to join 
Thorntons as his successor. Mark has extensive 
experience in the retail and consumer goods 
sectors, most recently with Somerfield Ltd, 
gOOd P r Os PeCTs
We remain focused on driving the business 
forward and delivering sustainable growth 
in earnings per share supported by a 
strong balance sheet.
chAIRm An’s s TATEmEnT
John von spreckelsen chairman
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   2 22/09/2009   11:32:15 03 www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
now part of the Co-operative Group. I would 
also like to thank Martin Davey, who retired 
from the Board as Non-Executive Director 
in December, for his valuable contribution to 
the Company and welcome Diana Houghton 
as a new Non-Executive Director to the Board. 
Diana brings with her a wealth of experience 
in branded product manufacturing and 
strategy consulting and has taken on the 
role of Chair of the Audit Committee.
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 4.85p 
per share unchanged from last year which, 
subject to shareholder approval, will be 
paid on 27 November 2009.
John von Spreckelsen
Chairman
8 September 2009
a selection 
from our delicious 
chocolate ranges.
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   3 22/09/2009   11:32:24 04
If you ThoughT  
you hAd A s WEET Too Th...
TRy ThIs foR sIzE
imagination
Q  Because we see the world with 
wide-eyed wonder
Q  Because if we can dream it we 
can make it
Q  Because all that we do should 
be wonderful
www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   4 22/09/2009   11:32:26 www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05
1.  
imagination
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   5 22/09/2009   11:32:31
