 thorn tons plc | annu al repor t and a ccoun t s 2010 2
t horntons has 
entered the 
new financial 
year in a stronger 
position to face the 
challenges ahead.
Our strategy remains to:
U improve Retail performance across all  
 three channels (Own Stores, Franchise  
 and Thorntons Direct);
U continue developing innovative   
 new products;
U further expand Commercial sales;
U improve productivity in Operations; and
U continue selective development of   
 export sales.
The trading issues in the Own Store estate 
are a key focus area for the Board and are 
being addressed.  We have strengthened 
the Retail management team and have 
also begun implementing a number of new 
initiatives to drive sales, both of which we 
believe will have a positive impact on 
trading in the lead up to Christmas. These 
initiatives include our continued focus on 
developing innovative new products, 
changes to promotions and local marketing 
and improving store standards.
During the year we incurred £0.6 million 
in restructuring and redundancy costs, with 
annualised benefits of £1 million, and 
I am confident that, as we slowly emerge 
from these difficult economic times, we 
will return to growth as a leaner, stronger 
business. We also continued to innovate 
our product range and to invest in 
refreshing our stores and in factory 
automation over the period.
The Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 4.10p per share, making the total dividend 
for year 6.05p, the same as last year, which, 
subject to shareholder approval, will be paid 
on 26 November 2010.
f ocusing 
on sus tainable, profitable gro wth
executive chairman’s statement
The past year has been a challenging 
one, while the Sales & Operations unit, 
including the Commercial sales channel, 
has continued to deliver strong results, 
Retail, as already indicated in earlier 
trading statements, with the exception 
of Thorntons Direct, failed to meet 
management expectations. 
Overall sales for the year were flat at 
£215.0 million. However, with the 
reduction in own label sales being 
replaced by sales of Thorntons branded 
product, the brand continued to gain 
market share in the UK chocolate market 
and the business remained strongly 
cash generative. Turnover in the 
Sales & Operations unit grew 9.8% 
to approximately £63.0 million 
(2009: £57.0 million), which helped 
to offset the 3.7% decline in Retail sales. 
The decline was a combination of 
a reduction in the number of customer 
transactions, in addition to significant 
levels of discounting of stocks, particularly 
during the latter part of the second half 
of the year.
Reported pre-tax profit before exceptionals 
was £6.1 million (2009: £6.3 million) 
whilst debt was down £0.7 million at  
£26.0 million (2009: £26.7 million). 
Underlying pre-tax profit before exceptionals 
was £7.5 million (2009: £6.6 million).
We have not been immune to the slowdown 
in economic activity and progress has been 
slowed by such an environment. However, 
we still continue to pursue our strategy and 
remain focused on providing sustainable 
growth in earnings per share supported by 
a strong balance sheet. 
_1_THT_ar10_front.indd   2 21/09/2010   13:05:01 thorn tons plc | annu al repor t and a ccoun t s 2010 3
Management and employees
Once again, our achievements over the 
last year would not have been possible 
without the hard work and commitment 
of our dedicated workforce. I would like 
to say a big personal thank you to all 
of them.
Earlier this year Mike Davies, our Chief 
Executive, informed me of his decision to 
retire from Thorntons and he will be leaving 
the Company on 30 September 2010. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank 
Mike for his valuable contribution to the 
business over the past four years and for 
his commitment to ensuring an orderly 
transition prior to his departure. Mike has 
led Thorntons’ restructuring, significantly 
improving the manufacturing operations, 
the product offering and performance 
of the Commercial channel. 
The selection process for a new Chief 
Executive is well advanced. In the interim, 
Mark Robson, Finance Director, will be 
acting Chief Executive, with myself 
remaining as Executive Chairman.
John von Spreckelsen
Executive Chairman
7 September 2010
Outlook
As set out in our trading statements, 
over the last year Thorntons has been 
successful in product innovation, growing 
Commercial sales and expanding 
Thorntons Direct. Further, manufacturing 
productivity has improved.
The key challenge for the business 
continues to be trading in the Own Stores 
channel, which experienced a decline in 
sales, particularly in the second half of the 
financial year. Since the year end, trading 
in what is traditionally a quieter period 
has been in line with our expectations. 
We have strengthened our senior Retail 
management team and we believe that 
this, together with extensive product 
innovation and changes to the promotional 
and marketing programmes, should have 
a positive impact on trading in the lead 
up to Christmas.
At the same time we have also introduced 
a number of sustainable cost saving 
initiatives into the business including 
savings through capital investment in 
manufacturing, procurement activity 
and headcount reductions.
Looking ahead we expect market 
conditions to remain tough. Thorntons has 
entered the new financial year as a leaner 
business, but also with a good indicative 
order level from our Commercial customers 
and various initiatives to recover Own 
Store trading; and this puts the Company 
in a stronger position to face the 
challenges ahead.
view our web site www.thorntons.co.uk
 
 
 
Both our consumer 
and corporate sales grew 
during the year driven by  
the new web site and a 
transactional site for 
corporate customers.
_1_THT_ar10_front.indd   3 21/09/2010   13:05:06
