 02
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
c hairman’s statement 
Significant recovery in profits
This is my first opportunity to report on 
Thorntons following my appointment as 
Chairman on 1 February 2013. I am pleased 
to report a significant recovery in profits 
as Thorntons continues to evolve towards 
becoming a multi-channel UK business 
and, longer term, an international Fast 
Moving Consumer Goods (“FMCG”) 
company with a UK multi-channel retailer. 
The impact of the continuing weak UK 
economy on our customers and our 
company has been significant but as a 
result of management actions we have 
made good progress and are on track 
with our plan. We have offset the legacy 
of our large retail estate by enhancing 
and developing other routes to market 
whilst retaining critical mass in our 
manufacturing operations. 
The steps taken have been defined 
by our strategy and business model 
and successfully implemented by 
establishing business-wide objectives 
and ensuring clear accountability 
throughout the organisation. 
The results for the financial year ended 
29 June 2013 reflect the success we 
have had in implementing this approach. 
Sales increased by 1.8% to £221.1 million 
(2012: £217.1 million). Reported pre-tax 
profit before exceptional items was 
£5.6 million (2012: £0.9 million). 
We have grown sales, reduced costs 
and increased profits. There is much 
more to do to realise the full potential 
of the Thorntons brand but the past 
year has shown good progress 
towards that objective.
We remain focused on improving 
profitability and creating 
shareholder value.
c olleagues and Directors
The progress that we have made would not 
have been possible without the continued 
and combined effort, enthusiasm and 
passion of everyone at Thorntons. As a 
result of growing production volumes 
we have secured employment at our 
factory in Alfreton, Derbyshire. We play 
an important role in the local economy 
and are proud when others declare our 
manufacturing efficiency and quality 
as world class. 
I would like to express my gratitude to 
those who have had to leave us during 
the year as we continue to reduce the 
size of our Own Store retail estate. This 
is a planned and managed programme 
that has allowed us to retain many of 
our colleagues through redeployment 
to other stores. 
I would also like to thank our franchisees, 
suppliers and commercial partners without 
whose continued support and partnership 
we would not have been able to make 
such positive progress over the year.
One of the great joys of being part of 
Thorntons is watching and sampling the 
remarkable creativity of those involved in 
our product development. Every year we 
set new standards and the year ahead 
promises to be the most exciting yet.
Following my appointment as 
Chairman, Keith Edelman became 
Senior Independent Director. Last 
November we welcomed Martin George 
as a Non-Executive Director, who brings 
extensive commercial and marketing 
skills to us, in addition to Diana Houghton, 
who chairs our Audit Committee.
•	 We have grown sales, reduced costs 
and increased profits. There is much 
more to do to realise the full potential 
of the Thorntons brand but the past 
year has shown good progress 
towards that objective
•	 I am confident that we can continue 
to grow the Company through the 
delivery of our strategy, and by careful 
assessment of future strategic choices 
continue the successful transformation 
of our company
 Summary
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   2 9/24/2013   10:41:31 AM 03
Thorntons plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
I believe we now have a very high-calibre 
team of Non-Executive Directors and 
Executive Directors led by Jonathan Hart 
as Chief Executive. As a result I am 
confident that we can continue to grow 
the Company through the delivery of 
our strategy and by careful assessment 
of future strategic choices continue the 
successful transformation of our company.
Dividend
The key to the future success of the 
business is underpinned by funding our 
investment requirements and rebuilding 
our balance sheet. The Board has therefore 
decided not to recommend the payment 
of a dividend this year but aims to return 
to a progressive dividend policy when the 
recovery strategy delivers a satisfactory 
dividend cover ratio and the Company 
has sufficient distributable reserves.
Outlook
We approach the coming year with the 
strong conviction that we have the right 
strategy and that we are demonstrating 
this through these results. Consumer 
expenditure remains under pressure; we 
are not expecting any improvement in the 
economy and as such do not expect this 
to support our efforts in the year ahead. 
I am encouraged by the improving market 
sentiment towards Thorntons and we 
are now working on plans to extend our 
transformation beyond the first three-year 
plan. We have an amazing company and 
with everyone pulling together we have 
an amazing opportunity ahead of us. 
paul Wilkinson
Chairman
10 September 2013
“ I am encouraged by 
the improving market 
sentiment towards 
Thorntons and we are 
now working on plans 
to extend our 
transformation 
beyond the first 
three‑year plan. ”
_1_THT_ar13_front_[SM_JW_KW].indd   3 9/24/2013   10:41:31 AM
