 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.thorntons.co.uk 06
Over the past year, we acted decisively to 
manage the business during the recession 
and I am pleased with the overall result. 
Sales increased by 3.2%, profit before 
taxation fell 4.5% to £8.1 million (including 
exceptional items) and we reduced our debt 
by £1.6 million by the year end. From a retail 
perspective the peak of the crisis in the eight 
to ten weeks before Christmas could not have 
hit us at a worse time, as historically 40% 
of Thorntons’ annual sales and most of its 
profits are generated during the Christmas 
quarter. This reinforces the importance of 
our long-term goal to reduce our financial 
dependency on Christmas.
The decision to focus on the balance sheet, 
by discounting to clear stocks and collect cash 
before Christmas and by implementing further 
cost management initiatives to protect the business 
going forward, paid off in the second half of the 
year, supported by a 6.1% sales growth. The 
second half operating loss (excluding exceptionals) 
reduced from £2.8 million last year to £0.6 million 
and our debt was reduced by £1.6 million over the 
year to £26.7 million. All this was achieved despite 
losing Woolworths as a major customer before 
Christmas and incurring a bad debt of £0.5 million 
when our largest franchisee, Birthdays Ltd, 
was placed into administration in May.
Notwithstanding the impact of the recession 
we continued to focus on the implementation 
of our strategy as follows:
Product innovation
2009 has seen a series of product success 
stories for Thorntons, most notably amongst 
our leading sharing brand ‘Thorntons Moments’ 
and our stylish, luxury bar range ‘Chocolate 
Blocks’. Family favourite ‘Moments’ hit 
£10 million sales in its first full year of 
trading and ‘Chocolate Blocks’ doubled the 
sales of the old range. However, the success 
of ‘Chocolate Blocks’ isn’t just evident in its 
sales figures; new additions to the range 
in 2009 have picked up an impressive 
five industry awards from the prestigious 
Academy of Chocolate and the Great Taste 
Awards. These award winning bars have 
been created by Thorntons’ Master Chocolatier, 
Keith Hurdman using the finest single origin 
chocolate and flavours that have surprised 
and delighted our customers, such as tonka 
bean, salted macadamia and salted pistachio. 
Other firm favourites such as hazelnut and 
raisin, strawberry and raspberry have recently 
been added to the range and we continue to 
look to introduce more new exciting flavours 
for our customers. 
sOLid resuL T s
We make excellent products and by 
continuing to live up to our values of imagination, 
togetherness and excellence, I strongly believe 
that the prospects for Thorntons are good.
chIEf ExEcuTIvE’s REpoRT
mike davies chief Executive
Thorntons will deliver 
sustainable, profitable 
growth by:
Q  Developing innovative 
new products
Q  Improving performance 
in UK Retail
Q  Further expanding 
commercial sales
Q  Improving productivity 
in operations
Q  Selective development 
of export sales
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   6 22/09/2009   11:32:31 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.thorntons.co.uk 07
The Spring 2009 seasonal products included 
new designs for Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day 
and Easter, which were on trend with their 
bright, folk design and included new creations 
with personalisation at the heart, delivering 
improved sales and fantastic customer feedback. 
With the aim of driving sales during 
the traditionally quieter summer months, 
we have invested in our ice cream offering. 
Firstly we have extended the range of both 
our sticks and scoops, and secondly we have 
increased awareness of the ice cream brand. 
New ice cream sticks launched this year 
include White Delight and Mint Choc Truffle. 
A Tropical Twist exotic fruit sorbet swirled 
with natural frozen yoghurt was added 
to the scoop range. 
We also invested in an ice cream marquee, 
featuring a nostalgic seaside theme. The 
marquee has been on tour to several music 
festivals and countrywide events and has 
been a resounding success both in terms 
of sales and brand awareness.
Looking ahead, this Autumn is an exciting time 
for Thorntons. Not only will our new Christmas 
range, which includes some exciting product 
innovations and eye-catching packaging, 
be launched in our stores, but we also have 
two new product collections launching in 
store and online. 
The ‘Continental City Boxes’, which include 
the milk chocolate ‘Paris Collection’ and dark 
chocolate ‘Milan Collection’, are a little taste 
of contemporary Europe and are inspired 
by the flavours from the cities themselves. 
They are the latest addition to the famous 
‘Continental’ range. 
‘Metropolitan’ is another exciting proposition 
from Thorntons. This stylish gift box is 
beautifully designed and is made with the 
finest Dominican Republic and Ecuador 
single origin chocolate, paired with unusual 
flavours such as cloudberry and quince, 
which will delight our discerning foodie fans. 
With many other stimulating innovations in 
the pipeline for 2010, it is an exciting time 
for Thorntons.
5,165
7,081
8,470
8,088
2006 2007 2008 2009
Profit before taxation
 (£’000)
r evenue
 (£’000)
2006 2007 2008 2009
176,626
185,989
208,122
214,805
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   7 22/09/2009   11:32:32 2. excellence
www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 08
WhEThER youR TA s TEs ARE
con TInEn TAl oR mETRopolITAn
IT ’s A
W o R ld
W ond ER ful
wonderful
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   8 22/09/2009   11:32:46 Orange blossom, quince, 
vanilla, salted caramel and 
cloudberry are just some of 
the delicious new flavours 
in our chocolates.
www.thorntons.co.uk
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09
excellence 
Q  Because we will fulfil our dream 
to be the best “sweetshop” 
in town
Q  Because we should 
never disappoint
Q  Because we inspire one another 
to do better
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   9 22/09/2009   11:33:04 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.thorntons.co.uk 10
sOLid resuLT s
The second half operating loss (excluding 
exceptionals) reduced from £2.8 million 
last year to £0.6 million and our debt was 
reduced by £1.6 million.
chIEf ExEcuTIvE’s REpoRT con TInuEd
UK Retail
Overall UK Retail sales, including Own Store, 
Franchise and Thorntons Direct, declined by 
0.5% to £157.9 million from £158.6 million 
in 2008.
Own Store performance declined by 0.4% 
during the year with the vast majority of the 
shortfall occurring in the Christmas quarter. 
During the course of the year we opened 
five new stores, resited one and closed six. 
Therefore, the retail estate ended the year 
with 379 stores, unchanged from last year.
With the benefit of hindsight, the recessionary 
environment during the Autumn and Christmas 
2008 selling season was not the ideal time to 
trial our new concept stores. More work is 
being done to further improve the concept 
before we proceed to roll it out.
The uncertainties in the property market are 
ongoing and we continue to pursue opportunities 
to reduce our costs at the time of lease renewals 
and rent reviews, as well as by renegotiating 
service charges. With 379 stores owned by more 
than 150 different landlords and the opportunity 
to review terms arising only once every five years 
for each store, this is a laborious process but 
one that should bear fruit in the long term.
Like for like sales declined by 2.0% for the 
year as a whole, again, mostly due to the poor 
trading in the Christmas quarter.
Franchise store sales grew by 2.2% during the 
year and I would like to thank all our franchisees 
for their hard work and commitment to Thorntons 
during this particularly difficult year. Unfortunately 
sales were adversely affected at the end of the 
year by the collapse of the Birthday stores that 
were placed into administration in May and 
accounted for 94 of our 254 Franchise stores.
Clinton Cards PLC have since bought back a 
number of Birthday stores from the administrators 
including 37 that have a Thorntons franchise. 
These have now resumed business as usual. 
Negotiations are progressing swiftly to appoint 
new franchisees in the remaining locations 
and we would expect to have reopened most 
of them in time for Christmas.
Thorntons Direct delivered mixed results. 
Overall sales to consumers from the website 
and the call centre increased by 13.9% during 
the year but sales to corporate end users declined 
by 30.7%, resulting in an overall decline in 
sales of 5.2%. Historically, our growth in 
corporate sales was driven by our success in 
the financial services and automotive sectors, 
both of which were unfortunately hit hard by 
the economic downturn and all discretionary 
expenditure on gifts ceased. We have since 
redirected our sales efforts into other sectors 
and are beginning to see some recovery 
in corporate sales, particularly in the leisure 
and hospitality sectors.
Commercial sales
Commercial sales continued to outperform 
the rest of the business and grew by 14.9% 
to £56.8 million and now account for 26.5% 
of total Company sales. We achieved good 
growth in all major multiples and now have 
more than 25% of the inlaid box chocolate 
market in the UK (AC Nielsen, June 2009 
excluding sales in Thorntons Retail).
In November Woolworths, one of our largest 
commercial customers, went out of business. 
As this had been anticipated well in advance, 
the resulting bad debt was minimal. I would 
like to express my particular thanks to the 
Commercial team for their quick response 
to the opportunities available to them at 
the time and for the growth achieved 
through the channel as a whole.
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   10 22/09/2009   11:33:04 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.thorntons.co.uk 11
Operations
The Purchasing team have once again done 
an excellent job of mitigating the volatility of 
the cocoa bean market with prices reaching 
a 24-year high in February 2009. Fortunately, 
dairy prices remained low for most of the year, 
helping us avoid the need for any significant 
price increases.
An ongoing area of focus is the productivity 
of our manufacturing facility and a significant 
step was taken this year with the investment 
of more than £1.1 million in a second robotic 
packaging line. This is now fully operational 
and should improve productivity and gross 
margins in the coming year.
We took another step to reduce costs as well 
as to mitigate our impact on the environment 
by outsourcing distribution of our products to 
the south east of England, particularly within 
the M25, to a third party.
Overall, supply service levels to all our customers, 
including our own stores, improved further 
from 95% to 96%.
Export sales
Export sales have been on the radar for 
some time and we believe now is the right 
moment to dedicate resources to exploring this 
opportunity. This is a long-term objective and 
we will carefully evaluate the options and learn 
from past experience before embarking on a 
controlled expansion of export sales.
Outlook
As I write this report there are very early 
signs that the worst of the recession might 
be over and this, together with all the work we 
have put into product innovation, reducing costs 
and improving productivity, gives me confidence. 
We make excellent products and by continuing to 
live up to our values of imagination, togetherness 
and excellence, I strongly believe that the 
prospects for Thorntons are good.
Mike Davies
Chief Executive
8 September 2009
Q  Delivered sales growth 
in a difficult trading 
environment
Q  Continued to innovate 
and invest
Q  Added focus on cost 
management and 
efficiencies
Q  Substantially reduced 
losses in H2
Q Reduced debt
Q  The strategy is delivering
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   11 22/09/2009   11:33:11 Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12
 s Al T + pEppER
 umbREllA + RAIn
 IcE cREA m + summER
 pIc TuRE + fRA mE
WoRkIng T ogEThER lIkE...
togetherness
Q  Because our best ideas come 
from bringing different types 
of people together
Q  Because we take individual 
responsibility for our 
collective future
Q  Because we respect, appreciate 
and energise each other
www.thorntons.co.uk
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   12 22/09/2009   11:33:20 www.thorntons.co.uk 13
Thorntons PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
3.  
togetherness
_2_THT_ar09_Front.indd   13 22/09/2009   11:33:31
