 Chief Executive’s report
LOng-tERm gOALs
Re-establish thorntons as 
the undisputed leading 
premium chocolate 
brand in the uk
to increase our share of 
the uk chocolate market 
by more than 50%
to increase all year 
round business to 
reduce dependency 
on Christmas and Easter
to improve our operating 
profit percentage
selective development 
of export sales
The past year has seen continued growth for 
Thorntons. Sales rose by 11.9% to £208.1m 
surpassing the £200m mark for the first 
time, with growth in all channels. Profit 
before tax increased by 19.6% to £8.5m.
This performance improvement has been 
achieved by focusing on the five point strategy 
outlined in the Chairman’s statement.
Investment in the brand
Thorntons has a very loyal customer 
base with a very strong brand franchise. 
Our challenge is to give the brand a broader 
appeal and we have made good progress 
during the year. Our TV commercial, aired 
before Christmas, helped improve overall 
perception of the brand and went on to 
win a silver and a bronze award at the 
2008 British Television Advertising Awards. 
Our product innovation and store 
improvements, detailed below, as well 
as numerous other activities have all 
played a part in rejuvenating the brand 
and consumers have noticed and 
appreciated the changes. In July 2008 
Superbrands published its official ranking 
of the UK’s top 500 brands for 2008/09 
and I am delighted to report that Thorntons 
jumped from 81st to 18th place and now 
ranks as the UK’s number one brand in the 
Food – Chocolate and Confectionery category.
Developing innovative new products
There has been a steady stream of successful 
innovation during the year starting with the 
relaunch of our flagship Continental range 
last Autumn. We increased the choice of 
chocolates with new recipes, as well as 
reintroducing some old favourites and 
succeeded in arresting the long-term decline 
of the Continental range and growing the 
brand by 5%. Thorntons Moments, a product 
designed to be shared by the family or 
as an informal gift, was launched in the 
Spring and has performed ahead of 
our expectations. 
The new designs for our seasonal ranges 
at Christmas, Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day 
and Easter all delivered improved sales. With 
a view to reducing our reliance on Christmas 
and Easter we have improved our ice cream 
offering, introducing two new flavours 
for sale in our own stores. We have also 
launched a new ice cream stick which 
comes in two delicious flavours: Toffee 
Temptation and Chocolate Trio. They are 
available in our own stores, supermarkets 
and convenience stores. 
Looking ahead, we have a new range 
of luxury chocolate blocks and a super 
premium box of chocolates coming out 
this Autumn together with a product 
pipeline packed with exciting ideas for 
the next three years.
06 Thorntons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
_1_THT_ar08_front.indd   6 19/09/2008   09:06:22 Modernising the in-store 
environment
Whilst we have continued to improve 
the look of our current estate, the most 
notable achievements during the year were 
the design of the new store concept and the 
improvement to our infrastructure with the 
specification of a new Electronic Point 
of Sale (“EPOS”) system.
The new concept has been designed to give 
the stores a more contemporary feel and 
create a more exciting shopping experience, 
making our wonderful products the “heroes 
of the store”. Since the year end, the first 
three new stores opened in Kingston upon 
Thames, Reading and Bluewater in August 
with further openings expected in September 
in Nottingham and Edinburgh. We will 
closely monitor the performance of these 
stores until after Christmas before we 
decide what further actions to take.
We have begun to replace our EPOS 
equipment which is expected to be 
completed before Christmas. Our current 
equipment is more than ten years old and 
no longer compatible with today’s chip and 
pin or cashless payment systems. The capital 
cost of this project is over £4m, spread over 
two years. The new system will help to 
reduce customer waiting time significantly 
in the peak Christmas season as well as 
providing us with more user friendly and 
valuable sales information.
 Further expanding our Commercial 
and Direct businesses
A key part of our long-term strategy is 
to make our products available to more 
customers throughout the country. Other 
retailers and our website will play an 
important role in achieving this. Our own 
stores and Franchisees offer customers 
a wide range of products and individual 
service with the added benefits of 
personalised gift wrapping or icing of 
messages, whereas the supermarkets and 
convenience stores provide the benefits 
of wider availability of a narrower range. 
The Thorntons Direct business offers the 
ultimate choice in product personalisation 
and the benefit of 24/7 shopping and 
delivery to even the remotest location. 
All have a vital role to play and I am very 
pleased that we have delivered growth 
across all four channels.
Attracting and retaining 
the best people
Our people are key to the success of our 
growth strategy. In Retail we have improved 
the competitiveness of our pay and benefits 
package and provided more training to both 
Store Managers and Sales Assistants. As a 
result we have colleagues who are better 
able to provide customers with an enjoyable 
shopping experience and excellent customer 
service as well as seeing reduced staff turnover.
Thorntons has a very loyal customer base with a very strong 
brand franchise. Our challenge is to give the brand a broader 
appeal and we have made good progress during the year.
Thorntons’ new retail concept launch 
Chocolate tempering in Thorntons’ kitchen
Thorntons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07
_1_THT_ar08_front.indd   7 19/09/2008   09:06:33 Attracting and retaining 
the best people continued
On the supply side we followed last 
year’s successful implementation of the 
“Regrading Programme” with substantial 
changes to the shift patterns and can now 
operate 24/7 on many of our production 
lines. I am pleased to say that these changes 
involved extensive consultations with our 
staff and were implemented with their 
full support.
Finally, we have begun to implement 
programmes to develop our Managers 
internally, creating career opportunities 
and internal succession opportunities. 
The recently announced promotions of 
Lysanne McCallion to Director of Retail 
and of Hannah Legg, who joins the 
Executive Team as Head of Thorntons Direct, 
are good examples of these changes. I am 
also pleased to welcome Sarah Riley who 
joined us in August as Director of Human 
Resources replacing Carmel Brown. Carmel 
left us in July 2008 to pursue a change of 
career and I would like to thank her for 
her contribution to Thorntons and wish 
her good luck in her new endeavour.
Operational performance
Own stOREs
Our own retail stores performed well this 
year with overall and like-for-like growth in 
every quarter resulting in sales of £135.1m 
and a 4.6% growth for the year. The retail 
estate increased by a net 11 stores to 379 
as a result of 14 openings and 3 closures 
as we continue to address a small number 
of poorly performing stores. We remain 
committed to our goal of reaching 400 stores. 
While we have made progress, the current 
uncertainties in the property market may 
have an impact on the timing. We will 
closely monitor the situation and take 
advantage of opportunities for good 
sites as they arise.
FRAnChisE stOREs
The Franchise business grew by 14.5% 
to £14.9m in the year with a net increase 
of 32 stores. We now have 250 stores 
and are making good progress towards 
the medium-term target of 300. I would 
like to express my thanks to Franchisees for 
their ongoing commitment and dedication 
to the Thorntons brand. We appreciate 
their candid feedback and suggestions for 
improvement and the fact that 40% of the 
independent store openings in the course 
of the financial year came from existing 
Franchisees opening additional stores 
with us is a testament to their loyalty.
COmmERCiAL sALEs
The Commercial business rose 33.8% to 
£49.5m and is becoming an increasingly 
important part of the business, generating 
nearly a quarter of our sales. All the major 
multiples are customers and Thorntons 
is now the undisputed brand leader in 
what AC Nielsen defines as the “Inlaid Box 
Chocolate Category” with a market share of 
22% (AC Nielsen). The launch of Thorntons 
Moments into the twist wrap category has 
also proved to be a success and made a 
significant contribution to the sales growth 
in the Commercial channel.
thORntOns DiRECt
Finally, our Direct business which includes 
the consumer, online and corporate end 
user businesses continued last year’s trend 
with sales of £8.6m, which represents 
growth of 26.6% for the full year. Product 
innovation, increasing the size of our customer 
database, improving conversion rates and 
delivery accuracy have all contributed to 
the success of this channel.
suPPLy ChAin
The performance of our supply chain 
continues to improve. Customer service 
levels increased to 95%, up from 94% 
last year and 88% the previous year.
The most significant impact on the 
supply side of the business this year has 
undoubtedly been the substantial increases 
in raw material prices and energy costs. 
As has been widely reported, dairy product 
prices rose by more than 70% at one point 
during the year before dropping back 
down again. Chocolate prices have risen 
40% year on year and the market continues 
to be volatile and difficult to predict. Energy 
price increases have also been challenging. 
We have, however, succeeded in absorbing 
the high input costs by improving 
productivity and increasing prices, thus 
restoring profitability. We expect input 
costs to remain high during the current 
financial year but we are well placed to 
mitigate the likely impact through increased 
pricing across all our product ranges. 
I strongly believe we will continue to improve our performance 
overall as long as we remain close to our traditional values of 
high quality products and innovation and place our customers 
at the forefront of our thinking.
08 Thorntons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s report continued
_1_THT_ar08_front.indd   8 19/09/2008   09:06:33 Commercial
£49.5m
Own Stores
£135.1m
Thorntons Direct
£8.6m
Franchise Stores
£14.9m
Outlook
Despite the uncertain general economic 
environment and the challenges faced 
by all retailers, I am confident about 
Thorntons’ progress and prospects.
During the course of the last year we 
have developed a long-term plan with 
the following goals:
  To be recognised as the UK’s leading 
premium chocolate brand. Given the 
recent “Superbrands” report, arguably 
we already are but we will not be 
complacent as more remains to be 
done to consolidate this position.
  To increase our share of the UK 
chocolate market by more than 50%. 
Our sales today represent approximately 
6% of the total market and we believe 
there are many opportunities for growth 
as we realise our new product pipeline 
and expand into new categories.
  To increase our all year round business 
and reduce our financial dependency 
on Christmas and Easter. Our new 
ice cream products are good examples 
of this strategy.
  To improve our operating profit 
margin. During the last few years 
our profit as a percentage of sales 
has hovered around the 4% mark and 
we believe that this can be improved 
through innovation, product design, 
pricing and productivity improvements.
  To grow internationally through the 
selective development of export sales. 
This is a longer-term goal as our priority 
is to grow and improve performance in 
the UK first. Nevertheless, lead times can 
be long and we feel it is right to include 
this goal in the development of our 
long-term plans.
Thorntons is continuing with its progress 
during the first weeks of the new financial 
year. I strongly believe we will continue to 
improve our performance overall as long 
as we remain close to our traditional values 
of high quality products and innovation 
and place our customers at the forefront 
of our thinking.
Mike Davies
Chief Executive
9 September 2008
Revenue
Thorntons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
_1_THT_ar08_front.indd   9 19/09/2008   09:06:35
