 4
Chairman’ s Letter
Dear Shareholders: This has been another remarkable year
of progress and achievement for your Company in a challenging
market. It has been a year where we have reinforced our position 
in the UK by extending our relationships with our customers, 
and by meeting our financial milestones.
The success of your Company in a challenging market environment is a huge tribute 
to all our staff, and we thank them greatly for their continued loyalty and commitment 
to growing your Company. 
THUS is a Company that believes in integrity at all levels. I believe we apply high
corporate governance, accounting and ethical standards to our business. We also 
take our social responsibilities and commitment to the communities where we operate
extremely seriously.
This year your Company has continued to support the Women’s Aid domestic
abuse campaign. More recently we have provided support to Emmaus, a charity
to help homeless people in Glasgow to which we will continue to provide support
on an ongoing basis. We are now playing a small role in supporting Business in the
Community with our staff engaging with pupils at Lochend Community High School
in Easterhouse, Glasgow, and we have recently supported the Prince’ s Trust. None
of these involve large charitable donations, but they do involve our employees giving
time and commitment in the support of others.
After three years of service on your Board, I have decided to retire. The Board has
commenced a search for a suitable successor and plans an orderly handover of
responsibility. We expect this change to occur during the course of this year . I have
enjoyed being part of THUS’ s formative years as a public company, and I shall take 
an avid interest in its future development. 
We expect the trends from last year to continue throughout this financial year . Despite
market conditions which continue to be challenging, the Board remains comfortable
with market expectations for the year ahead, and of achieving our next key financial
objective of operating profit in the second half of this financial year .
Roy Brown, 
Chairman
Roy Brown, Chairman and
William Allan, Chief Executive 
