 02
Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s introduction
It has been an exciting year as we have been 
diligently building around the organic growth 
strategy that we outlined in September 2013. 
As part of these activities we have made 
investments across the business, particularly in 
people, processes and product development. 
Significant progress has been made and we 
are pleased to see the effect of these growth 
initiatives beginning to come through. 
Our push into eastern markets has continued 
in the year with the opening of our new office in 
Shanghai, China, in February 2014. Having a 
local presence dramatically improves our delivery 
lead times, enhances consumer experience, and 
presents a number of strategic opportunities, 
which include the building of direct relationships 
with major companies in the region.
Elsewhere in western territories the 
environment for government-funded research 
is more challenging, driven by large fiscal 
deficits. That said, however, we are beginning 
to see signs of stability in the US as modest 
funding increases are approved. 
New product additions for the year were 
11,521, taking the total catalogue to over 
133,000 products. The level of additions is 
below that in recent years as we increasingly 
focus on in-house development to high-value 
targets. During the year we launched 1,733 
new RabMAb
®
 products, making us the 
largest provider of rabbit monoclonal 
antibodies globally.
Dividends
The strong balance sheet and cash generation 
capability of the Group has allowed us to sustain 
the progressive improvement in dividends. 
This year the Board is proposing a final dividend 
of 5.62 pence per share, which when added 
to the interim dividend of 2.13 pence represents 
an increase of 10.1% for the year as a whole. 
Subject to shareholder approval the final 
dividend will be paid on 28 November 2014 
to shareholders on the register on 
7 November 2014.
Board changes
There have been a number of Board changes 
since the start of the 2013/14 financial year, 
which have been made to support the 
business in its next phase of growth or in 
compliance with best governance practice.
Some of these changes have been announced 
today and others over the year. 
They are as follows:
 > Alan Hirzel has been appointed as CEO 
with immediate effect, having joined the 
Board earlier in the year;
 > at the same time Jonathan Milner 
moves from CEO to a newly created 
Deputy Chairman position and will have 
an active role in the continued development 
of the company;
 > Louise Patten joined the Board earlier in the 
year and is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. She will assume the Senior 
Independent Director role following the 
AGM in November;
 > after nine years Peter Keen will not 
be seeking re-election to the Board at 
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in 
November, in line with best practice for 
independent non-executive directors; and
 > as announced earlier in the year I, 
Michael Redmond, will be stepping 
down from the Board at the AGM 
and one of our non-executive directors, 
Murray Hennessy, will be taking over 
as Chairman of the Board.
Alan Hirzel’s appointment as CEO 
was announced today. He succeeds 
Jonathan Milner, Abcam’s long-serving 
Chief Executive and co-founder.
Jonathan’s exceptional vision and ambition 
inspired the creation of Abcam in 1998. 
He and the Board are delighted to confirm 
a successor to lead the business to its next 
phase of growth. Alan brings an impressive 
combination of a strong scientific background, 
global business and leadership experience 
and consumer knowledge. Jonathan and 
Alan have been working closely together on 
Abcam’s strategic vision over the last year. 
Alan will take over leadership of the Company 
effective immediately, whilst Jonathan will 
continue to use his tremendous industry 
experience and network of contacts to help 
identify important technology changes 
relevant to our business, and partnership 
and acquisition targets to support our 
growth strategy.
Alan was appointed to the Board In 
January 2014 having joined the Company 
in August 2013 as Chief Marketing Officer, 
with responsibility for the Company’s branding, 
product portfolio and online consumer offering. 
He has played a major role in the planning 
and implementation of our growth strategies 
and has led their execution.
In March 2014 Louise Patten joined the 
Board, bringing extensive experience which 
is highly relevant to Abcam at this stage in the 
Company’s development. She has served on 
the boards of substantial quoted companies 
for more than 20 years as a non-executive 
director, senior independent director, and 
remuneration committee and company 
chairman. Louise will be taking on the 
Senior Independent Director role following 
the AGM in November.
I am delighted to welcome both Alan 
and Louise to the Board and am confident 
they are already playing a significant role 
in Abcam’s ongoing development.
Peter Keen joined the Board in 2005 prior 
to the Company’s flotation on AIM, during 
which time he has served as Chairman of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees and 
as the Senior Independent Director. As also 
announced today, in line with best practice, 
Peter has decided not to seek re-election at 
the next AGM, at which he will have served 
nine years. We are most grateful for the huge 
contribution he has made to the operation 
of the Board and the development of the 
business during that time.
Lastly, as announced in June 2014, after 
five years as Chairman I have decided to step 
down from the Board following the AGM, 
to be held later this year, and my fellow Board 
member, Murray Hennessy, will be taking over 
the role of Chairman. Murray has served as a 
Non-Executive Director for almost three years 
and has developed a deep understanding of 
Abcam. He brings extensive experience 
in international customer-facing industries and 
online businesses, and is the ideal candidate 
to take over and help lead Abcam’s 
next phase of growth.
Corporate governance
Over the course of the year the Board 
and its committees have addressed the 
corporate governance requirements arising 
from changes to regulations. We have 
expanded our Strategic Report, making our 
business model and key strategic priorities 
more transparent, and increased disclosures 
on matters affecting audit and remuneration.
The composition of the Board is kept under 
regular review to ensure that its members 
bring the appropriate skills required to 
improve its effectiveness and performance. 
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
functioned well in all respects during the year, 
providing knowledgeable and robust challenge 
and support to the Executive Directors. 
Welcome to Abcam’s 2013/14 Annual Report. I am pleased to report further progress of the Group 
during the year. After stripping out the negative effect from the relative strengthening of Sterling, 
overall revenue growth was 8.6%, and revenues from the sale of products sold through our catalogue, 
which is the focus of our growth strategy, grew by 10.0%. Allowing for currency fluctuations, the 
overall reported revenue growth was 4.7%, of which catalogue sales grew by 6.0%. After increased 
investment in the business to support our growth, adjusted profit before tax was £46.8m, which is 
marginally higher than last year (2012/13: £46.6m). 03
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Abcam plc
Overview Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
I am also confident that the changes 
described above will enable the Board 
to continue to do so as Abcam’s business 
continues to grow.
Awards 
In October 2013 we were delighted to be 
named ‘Company of the Year’ in the 2013 
AIM Awards. The award is presented to the 
company that has best demonstrated it is 
a responsible, fully accountable, dynamic 
business with strong growth prospects. 
Above all, the winner is deemed to be a 
well-managed business, having attracted 
public funding to enhance and develop 
its growth potential to the full.
During the year we were also proud to have 
been voted as Management Today’s ‘Most 
Admired Company’ in the Healthcare and 
Household sector. The Britain’ s Most Admired 
Companies Awards are an important indicator 
of the highest performing companies in British 
business that embed excellence throughout 
their organisation.
Outlook 
During 2013/14 we have begun to see the 
benefits of our investments to drive organic 
growth and expect to see further progress in 
the coming year. Looking ahead, our market 
intelligence indicates tentative signs that 
market conditions may be improving in the 
US, and we are cautiously optimistic of 
greater certainty around the level of centrally 
funded research expenditure. While we 
remain cautious about the prospects for a 
recovery to historical levels of funding growth, 
the 2014/15 financial year has started well 
and we are optimistic that our continued 
investments in new products and capabilities, 
coupled with increased geographic 
penetration, will continue to drive sales.
I would like to thank all the members of 
the Abcam family for the progress made in 
year and look forward to repeated success 
in 2014/15.
Mike Redmond
Chairman
8 September 2014
highlights oF oUr YEAR
Product revenue
+10.0%
(since 2012/13)
Adjusted operating profit
1
46.6M
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
18.06p
Cash and term deposits
56.9m
 > Catalogue revenue increased by 10.0% on a constant currency 
basis to £118.0m (2012/13: £111.3.m). On a reported basis the 
increase was 6.0%
 > Total revenue increased by 8.6% on a constant currency basis 
(4.7% on a reported basis) to £128.0m (2012/13: £122.2m)
 > Underlying gross margin grew slightly but the effect of exchange 
rates reduced reported margins to 70.6% (2013: 71.0%)
 > After increased investment to drive future growth, adjusted 
operating profit
1
 increased slightly to £46.6m (2012/13: £46.5m). 
Reported operating profit increased to £43.3m (2013: £42.8m)
 > Adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS)
1
 increased by 2.8% 
to 18.06 pence (2012/13: 17.57 pence). Reported EPS increased 
by 4.2% to 17.02 pence (2012/13: 16.34 pence)
 > Closing cash and term deposits were £56.9m (30 June 2013: £38.3m)
 > Excellent progress in implementing our key organic growth initiatives
 > Dividend increased by 10.1% to 7.75 pence per share 
(2012/13: 7.04 pence)
 > Opened a new office in Shanghai, China, providing us greater 
access to local markets and improving the consumer experience
1  Excluding £3.3m (2012/13: £3.3m) of acquisition-related intangible amortisation costs and no one-off 
charges (2012/13: £0.4m) and, in the case of EPS, the related tax effect.
Our full financial results are discussed on page 30
