 07
Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Abcam plc
The year ended 30 June 2014 has been an exciting 
and busy time for Abcam.
We have invested in our organic growth strategy 
and are pleased to see its impact beginning to come 
through. Sales growth from our catalogue products 
of 10.0% on a constant currency basis is above the 
growth of the wider market and demonstrates 
that consumers continue to recognise the quality 
of our products.
The key to our success in the year and beyond lies 
in the continued focus and investment around our 
five strategic goals:
KeEpinG thE hiGhESt StaNdardS
cEo’s introduction
Successful execution of our strategy 
demands that we increasingly focus on 
listening to our consumers and ensuring 
that we use the insights gained to shape 
our business. I am delighted with the 
progress that we have made on each 
of these goals during the year and the 
plans we have in place for the future.
Create a scalable 
organisation
Sustain attractive 
economics
Grow our core 
reagents business 
faster than the 
market
1
3 4
Establish new 
growth platforms
Selectively pursue 
partnerships and acquisitions
2 5
Read our strategy in detail on page 18
hOW DO WE eNsUrE 
hIgh PrOduct QUaLity?
Stringent quality control and validation processes are 
carried out by our laboratories in the US, UK and China 
to check the activity, stability and performance of our 
products. Whether it is antibodies, kits or biochemicals 
the validation process is continuous and the data 
obtained is made available on our product datasheets 
and in our protocols. Where a product is sourced 
through our OEM channels we work closely with 
suppliers to ensure product quality and information 
meets our high standards. Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
In 2003, as we opened our first overseas office, we 
wanted a way of communicating the principles that the 
business was built on. As this was our Cambridge, MA, 
office in the US, we called it the ‘Abcam Constitution’. 
These principles remain core values within the Company 
and will continue to evolve to ensure that they align with 
our culture and strategic goals.
 > We share all non-confidential information 
with our consumers
 > We exceed consumer expectations by fast delivery
 > We offer polite, efficient and helpful 
consumer service
 > We are honest with all our consumers, employees, 
suppliers and stakeholders 
 > We measure how we are doing using transparent 
dynamic reports
 > We operate efficiently using dynamic  
internet-based systems
 > We value ideas and problem solving from each 
and every employee
 > We evaluate all new ideas, products and technologies 
by asking if we can make a contribution to them 
and be best in the world, if we are truly passionate 
about them and if they can make money
 > We recruit talented staff with passion and 
energy and provide a flexible and supportive work 
environment to help them reach their full potential 
within a high-performance culture
Adherence to these principles across our business 
has helped us to become a leading supplier of life 
science research tools globally.
Read more about our staff on page 33
cEo’s introduction ContINuED
The Abcam CONSTitUtion
