 THUS Group plc Annual Report 2007 9
As we entered this financial year we were firmly focused on the integration of our two acquisitions,
Y our Communications and Legend Communications, to create a company with greater scale and
opportunities for growth throughout the UK business services market. These events reinforced our
position in the north-west and added new capability to your Company.
At the outset of the year we forecast synergy savings of about £25m per annum upon integration
completion, for a one-off investment of about £30m. Midway through the year , as we gained
confidence in the savings from the implementation and the management of our costs, we upgraded
our forecast to £30m per annum of savings for less than £25m of upfront investment: ie £5m more
per annum for £5m less cost.
We had also forecast that our revenues would be broadly flat over the course of the year as our
management focused on extracting value from the acquisitions. The reality proved to be somewhat
better, from our improved revenue mix, accelerated next-generation services growth and winning
three of our largest ever Managed solutions contracts.
Previously, we had announced that the majority of our variable gross margin was being derived 
from next-generation services, more than compensating for the decline in our legacy base. Even with
the addition of the legacy revenues from Y our Communications, we exited the year with more margin
and more revenue being derived from next-generation services. This is what we had always planned
and designed our network and service capability to deliver . It is now a reality in our market that next-
generation service capability will drive growth. Managed solutions and converged services is our
future: we are well equipped and strongly positioned to capitalise on new growth from our increased
scale and presence in the UK business market.
Our second half performance has demonstrated that the enlarged THUS has returned to growth.
Second half revenue was up 5% on the first half and our operating losses
1
reduced by 60% to 
£2.7m. Second half EBITDA
1
increased by 28% demonstrating that we are well on track to deliver
our financial objectives.
We were particularly proud to become involved in the two “Pathfinder” projects to implement next-
generation services to schools and public buildings in the Highlands and Islands, and South of
Scotland regions. These two projects will extend our network and service reach in Scotland and use
radio technology to reach the more remote regions. Indeed, some of our capability on these new
contracts builds on our experience in designing and building a radio network for the North West
Development Agency . The “Pathfinder” projects will run for seven years and are worth over £100m.
In addition, we were delighted to be selected by HSBC to build and manage next-generation
services to connect more than 2,000 locations throughout the UK in a contract worth £77m over 
the next five years. United Utilities has also renewed its contracts with us for a further three years
worth more than £13m. All of this underpins revenue for the next financial year .
New contract growth has been extremely encouraging. In a tough and demanding market I am
extremely proud of our achievements, and convinced that we have the correct strategy, skills,
management and employees to deliver lasting shareholder value. THUS is strongly positioned for
future growth and our performance this year reinforces my confidence that we remain firmly on track
to meet our expectations in the new financial year .
William Allan
Chief Executive
Directors’ Report Chief Executive’ s review
1
Operating losses and earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation (including impairment) and amortisation
(EBITDA) exclude £1.6m of restructuring costs for the year .
