 I was particularly pleased to announce our 
maiden operating profit for the year at our 
Preliminary results in May. Our growth in profits 
has been achieved from our increased market 
share and improved productivity, validating our 
strategy to focus on next-generation services  
in the UK business services market.
The transition from legacy to next-generation 
services continues and has improved our  
overall revenue mix. Over 70% of all new major 
corporate and public sector contracts
1
 this year 
were for next-generation services. These services 
offer our customers greater efficiency, features 
and functionality within their businesses. 
Managed solutions revenue increased by 17% 
and data services revenue increased by 1 1%. 
Although revenue from voice services grew by 
1 1%, we do not expect continued growth in 
Carrier Pre-Select (CPS) services, since these 
services will lose traction in the market as 
customers increasingly embrace Internet  
Protocol (IP) services and converged solutions. 
THUS is strongly positioned. Our consultative 
engagement with our customers, our understanding 
of their business and telecommunication needs, 
and our innovative approach to convergence  
and service evolution allows us to sustain a 
competitive edge. THUS has a strong track 
record of service innovation, and this year has 
been no exception with fifteen new service 
enhancements launched to benefit our customers 
and improve our competitive position.
Our capital investment continues at almost 10%  
of revenue, with 83% focused directly on customer 
related activity. This is a higher percentage than 
last year, reflecting our success in winning larger 
and more complex Managed solutions customers. 
Nevertheless, we do not neglect our back office 
or core network and we have improved the 
availability on our core MPLS network, and the 
consistently high levels of service quality we offer. 
In addition, we have received ISO/IEC 
27001:2005 accreditation for the Information 
Security Management System supporting our 
MPLS network. This complements our longer 
standing ISO 9001:2000 accreditation.  
These standards give confidence to our customers 
about the quality standards in our business, and 
allow us to compete in new business areas.
As we have grown our business, our increased 
scale has offered new opportunities to improve 
our operating efficiency and productivity. 
Revenue grew by 8% this year but our 
operating costs
2
 reduced by 8%. At 14.4% of 
revenue, our operating costs
2
 are now below 
the level achieved before we made our two 
acquisitions in 2006, reinforcing the successful 
integration of Your Communications and Legend 
Communications into THUS. All of this improves 
our competitiveness and our ability to further 
scale our business from new revenue growth.
Our business strategy is sound. We have the 
scale and capability to compete and successfully 
implement large and complex bespoke customer 
applications. We are strongly positioned to 
benefit as our customers and our industry makes 
the transition to next-generation services.  
We have a talented and committed workforce, 
with an enviable track record on service 
innovation and enterprise. Although there is 
uncertainty about the UK economy, the outlook 
for this financial year is in line with the Board’s 
expectations.
William Allan
Chief Executive
1 Contracts typically covering higher value bespoke sales.
2 Operating costs exclude depreciation and amortisation 
(including impairment), restructuring costs and other  
operating income. 
3 Operating cash after interest, taxation and capital 
expenditure.
Directors’ Report:
Chief Executive’s Review
We have the scale and capability to compete 
and successfully implement large and complex 
bespoke customer applications. 
Key Achievements in 2008
> > 70% of contracts signed
1
 this year  
were for next-generation services
Revenue up 8% with improved mix >
Maiden operating profit delivered >
Significantly improved free   >
cash flow
3
Successfully refinanced bank facility   >
to 2012 on more favourable terms
Increased our market share > 
THUS Group plc Annual Report 2008
<
13
