 Chief Executive’s review
Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2003 5
Our primary focus is on the continued development of our two core markets of Europe and North
America whilst building critical mass in China. In many countries within these markets we have
achieved leading positions in our chosen sectors of clothing, grocery and mass consumer
merchandise. We have continued to extend our activities and competencies across the supply
chain including offshore support mainly from Asia and Eastern Europe. In the context of extending
our capabilities across the supply chain, we acquired Vfw AG, a fourth party reverse logistics provider
in Germany which is now integrated into the Group and performing ahead of our business plan.
Americas
Although turnover for the Americas at £596.6m was ahead of last year by 2% at constant exchange
rates, the Division had a disappointing and unsatisfactory year. We have taken action to improve
ﬁnancial performance. This has included substantial management changes, restructuring the
business, reducing overhead, closing the Latin American ofﬁce in Miami and the realignment of 
our business development activities. These actions will enable the business to exploit more effectively
opportunities in an expanding market. Overall the restructuring of the Americas’ business is expected
to result in a 2004 ﬁrst half exceptional charge of approximately £2.0m.
The North American market continues to grow and new contracts were started for Kimberly-Clark,
Procter & Gamble, Smuckers and Payless Shoes. We also extended our business with Wal-Mart
following the introduction of the Sam’s Club store format in Canada. In the second half of the year
we were awarded a contract to design and operate a major distribution centre for a leading Canadian
supermarket chain, projected to become operational in early 2005. In December, following a change
in senior management, JC Penney advised their contractors that during 2004 they would be 
taking back in-house all their major third party operations, including the two sites we currently
operate on their behalf.
North American operating proﬁt, before goodwill amortisation, was £2.8m. This result was impacted 
by the previously announced exceptional events in the ﬁrst half of 2003. These were the full
provision for the £3.1m outstanding from a former customer that has ﬁled for Chapter 11 protection,
and the £3.5m write-off associated with the decision by Safeway Inc to exercise the one-time
option to take the operation in North California in-house. Operating proﬁt was also impacted 
by a weaker US dollar that reduced earnings by £0.5m compared to last year.
During 2003 we continued to make good progress towards achieving
our strategic objectives, particularly in our European and International
Divisions. However, the Americas performance was unsatisfactory.
The issues underlying this have now been addressed and we expect 
to see a substantial rebound in performance during 2004. 
Mike Arrowsmith
Chief Executive 6 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2003
In Mexico, although turnover of £45.2m was up by 39% at constant exchange rates, an operating loss
before goodwill amortisation of £2.5m was recorded. The loss was mainly due to difﬁculties associated
with the consolidation, under the direction of the North American management, of seven sites around
Mexico City, into a single, purpose-built facility. The transfers were not well executed, resulting in
signiﬁcant cost overruns and customer penalty payments. By the end of 2003 these operations
had been stabilised and are now on track to deliver the beneﬁts originally envisaged. There have
been considerable management changes, the overhead cost base has been reduced and investment
made in new business development infrastructure. The deployment of transport planning software
has recommenced and will further reduce cost and increase service efﬁciencies. During the year,
substantial new warehousing contracts commenced with Procter & Gamble and Rubbermaid. 
Europe
In 2003 we made signiﬁcant headway in Europe. The restructuring of the UK business has been
completed, with a single, uniﬁed support structure now serving both the consumer products and
fashion teams. Under the leadership of Saad Hammad, who joined the Group in February 2003, 
the integration of the UK and Mainland European operations is progressing. This is both cost
effective and facilitates our capability to share best practice across frontiers and business operations.
Increasingly, multinational customers are managing their activities on a co-ordinated regional and
most frequently a pan-European basis. Accordingly, we have reorganised our business development
teams to create a central resource to support strategic customer partnerships and our own
national initiatives.
Total turnover of our European operations at £907.9m was up by 6% at constant exchange rates.
There was strong progress in the UK, with the ﬁrst half loss of the M&S textiles and general
merchandise contract being offset by the new business wins with Homebase and Boots, which
commenced in the second half of the year. In Mainland Europe we achieved substantial top-line
growth. However, increased pricing pressures, and operational challenges in France in the ﬁrst 
half, lowered operating margins. 
In the UK and Ireland, turnover at £624.8m and operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation at
£17.4m, were 2% and 23% higher than last year, respectively. The continuing interest in outsourcing
has been evidenced by a signiﬁcant number of contract wins and renewals within all our key
customer segments. We reinforced our signiﬁcant involvement with retailers by commencing new
Reverse logistics
As pressure grows to recycle
products and materials, both to
cut costs and to conserve non-
renewable resources, reverse
logistics is becoming increasingly
important. Already in Europe the
focus is shifting from disposal 
to recovery; partly driven by 
new legislation – such as the 
EU Restriction of Hazardous
Substances and the Waste
Electrical and Electronic
Equipment (WEEE) directives,
adopted in February 2003.
Tibbett & Britten’s 2003
acquisition of leading German-
based reverse logistics specialist
Vfw reﬂects the Group’s resolve 
to be in the forefront of this ﬁeld.
Vfw is a market leader in reverse
logistics to the retail pharmacy
sector, and is also one of two
market leaders in Germany in 
the management of returnable-
deposit drinks containers. Over
time the Group plans to translate
this expertise into other product
and geographic markets. Chief Executive’s review (continued)
contracts with B&Q, The Big Food Group, Boots, Homebase, Marks & Spencer, Sainsbury and
Tesco. Among manufacturers, we won new business with O
2
and secured contract renewals 
with Danone, Gillette and Unilever. Within Fashion, we secured new business with Arcadia, 
Ben Sherman, Fred Perry, LVMH, Next, Sainsbury, Tesco and TK Maxx. 
Operating proﬁt beneﬁted from lower overhead costs and the 2002 closure of the under-performing
multi-user fashion network. However, as reported at the interim stage, this performance has been
ﬂattered by the M&S textiles and general merchandise termination payment. We have recently 
won additional business with M&S for the offshore consolidation and import management of 
wines, which extends our exclusive UK storage contract. 
Mainland Europe experienced encouraging growth in a difﬁcult economic environment. At constant
exchange rates, turnover increased by 15% to £283.1m with double-digit growth in all major
markets. Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation of £5.4m was up by 13% at constant
exchange rates. Reported results beneﬁted from an £0.8m exchange beneﬁt from a stronger 
euro and the German acquisition, Vfw, in October. 
Thailand tie-up
The Group’s acquisition of a
substantial equity stake in Davids
Distribution (Thailand) during 2002
is enabling it to offer integrated
services along the Singapore-
Malaysia-Thailand geographical
axis. It is now also sharing in
fulﬁlling a major logistics contract
with hypermarket retailer Big C –
part of established customer, 
the Casino Group of France.
Davids Distribution’s giant new
Wang Noi distribution centre
operates 24x7 and is already
capable of handling up to
100,000 cases of merchandise 
a day for Big C. The ﬁrst phase 
of the 103,000 sq m (1.1m sq ft)
centre, shown here, is handling the
warehousing and distribution of a
wide range of fresh and ambient
goods to 34 Big C Supercenter
stores all over Thailand.
Always in fashion
Today, Tibbett & Britten Group 
is an international full-service
logistics provider with a three-fold
focus on the fashion, food and
beverage, and non-food consumer
goods sectors. But it is the ﬁrst 
of these – clothing and textiles
logistics – that provides a common
thread running through the
Group’s history.
Tesco, the UK’s largest retailer, 
is progressively growing its
fashion and non-food businesses,
and turned to the sector leader 
in 2003 to provide a dedicated
central warehousing and
distribution service for all its
boxed clothing lines in the UK –
some 30m cases a year. 
The operation is based at our
recently completed 22,400 sq m
(240,000 sq ft) high-bay Fastway
distribution centre in the English
Midlands (shown left). Chief Executive’s review (continued)
8 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2003
Vfw, our fourth party packaging return business, performed ahead of plan and has continued 
to increase its customer base. In late 2003 its nationwide system for the return of one-way drinks
containers was launched and has already been accepted by Spar, Rewe and other major retailers.
The contract logistics operations, particularly for healthcare and medical gases, continue to
expand, with distribution into Austria and other Central European countries. 
New business activities continue at a satisfactory level through both national initiatives and support
from the pan-European development team. During the year major new contracts included Castorama
and SSL in France; Carrefour and Corteﬁel in Spain; Levi Strauss in Benelux; and Henkel, Johnson
& Johnson, Kelly’s, Merkur (Rewe) and Tesco in Central and Eastern Europe. In Germany, the new
Bingen warehouse for Wal-Mart was successfully commissioned in March and our operations
continued to deliver high levels of service. 
In May, the enlargement of the European Union will prove to be a catalyst for accelerated change.
We are beneﬁting from our established presence in Central Europe with the migration of production
and sourcing and the development of transnational retailing.
During the year we strengthened our country management teams with new appointments in France
as well as Central and Eastern Europe.
International
Our established businesses in Asia, the Middle East and Africa continue to develop rapidly with 
a clear mandate for proﬁtable growth and increased return on investment. Turnover increased by
47% to £129.0m and operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation was up by 35% at £2.7m at
constant exchange rates. Our presence in these markets supports our core international customer
base and is a signiﬁcant part of our strategy to develop long term partnerships with key customers.
In China our joint-venture with Hutchison Whampoa continues to expand in response to a rapidly
consolidating domestic retail sector prior to the WTA driven de-regulation of the market in early
2005. This proposed change has increased outsourcing opportunities with both local and
international supermarket chains. Our added-value managed transport operations also continue 
to expand, offering nationwide delivery to over 350 cities. Following a slow start to the year caused
by the uncertainty following the outbreak of the SARS virus, the second half saw an increased
tempo of new business opportunities. New contracts have been won with Abbott Laboratories,
Auchan, Bacardi, B&Q, Heysong, Paciﬁc Dairy, Procter & Gamble, Stanley Tools and Wu Mei.
China promise
Through our joint-venture with
Hutchison Whampoa – Hutchison
Tibbett & Britten (HTB) – the
Group has been building critical
mass in China for six years. As a
result we are now well positioned
to beneﬁt from the changes in both
global sourcing and the domestic
Chinese market likely to result
from trade deregulation in 2005.
HTB is already preparing for this
increased activity and opened a
new purpose-built shared-user
distribution centre in Shanghai
(right) during 2003. One of the
largest in the region, it is already
serving a number of multi-national
and domestic companies, providing
them with world class levels 
of service quality. In the Middle East, a joint-venture agreement was signed with the Al Futtaim Group in Dubai. 
This JV is providing supply chain management services in the region to Al Futtaim’s prestigious
franchise portfolio – including Ikea, Marks & Spencer and Toys R Us in the retail sector, and
Toyota, Honda, Chrysler-Jeep, Volvo, Sanyo, Toshiba and National Panasonic in the automotive
and electronics sectors. In Saudi Arabia, our joint-venture with the Olayan Group had a difﬁcult
trading year due to the conﬂict in Iraq. However in the second half year there were signs 
of improvement and we expect growth to return to this market in 2004.
In South Africa, the new multi-user distribution centre at Gauteng was successfully commissioned
and is progressively moving towards full operational throughput. 
Mike Arrowsmith Chief Executive
Scale and resilience
The Group’s three-dimensional
growth strategy is to focus on 
the consumer market sector –
which has scale and resilience; 
to develop in selected geographies;
and to pursue long-term
international partnerships with
substantive customers.
One such company is Procter 
& Gamble. Following the Group’s
progressive take-on of P&G
logistics operations in the USA,
Argentina and China, we set 
up three new P&G distribution
centres in Mexico during 2002-03,
and now handle 55% of the total
volumes produced by Procter &
Gamble Mexico. This 66,900 sq m
(720,000 sq ft) facility in Mexico
City (left) is the largest P&G site 
in Latin America.
Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 2003 9
