 8 THUS Group plc Annual Report 2007
Directors’ Report Chairman’ s statement
Last year we announced a transformation for your Company as we made our first two acquisitions,
disposed of Demon Netherlands and restructured our balance sheet. The period since that
announcement has been highly successful for your Company, with our financial and operational
performance more than meeting our expectations.
The integration of the two acquisitions has proceeded ahead of the original plan we announced 
to the market. The benefits are measurable and are beginning to feed into our financial results. 
Our balance sheet remains strong, with net debt at the end of the year unchanged from the opening
position. This is particularly pleasing since we settled our tax bill in the Netherlands, closed the gap 
in our pension fund, invested in the integration activities, yet still tied 77% of our capital expenditure
to future customer related growth. But it is our second half financial performance that is most
encouraging as we entered the new financial year on a growth trajectory – just as we said we would.
Our market remains tough and challenging. The sector consolidation we discussed last year
continues. Several of our competitors are embarking on new strategies to compete for position, 
and new entrants from overseas have entered the UK market. But our business strategy is robust 
and delivering results as more of our customers enjoy the benefits from converged next-generation
services, where your Company is particularly strong.
As a result of the 1 0 to 1 share consolidation undertaken in March 2006, we retained a small surplus
of shares which we have now committed to charitable and educational ventures. Our staff also
continue to support a number of good causes through a variety of initiatives. Overall, I am pleased
that we are able to play a larger part in the communities where we operate.
Our commitment to maintaining the environment, recycling of surplus computer hardware, green
energy and carbon reduction is embedded in our culture as business as usual activities. Nevertheless
we can do more and plan to reduce further our consumption of paper and disposables, travel and
overall energy and carbon consumption.
During the year Simon Batey, the former Group Finance Director of United Utilities, briefly served 
on your Board. Simon played a valued part in the early integration activity of Y our Communications,
for which he has our thanks. Simon has been replaced on the Board as the United Utilities nominated
Non-executive Director by Martin Beesley. In addition, we were pleased to appoint Rick Medlock to
the Board as a new Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Rick is the Chief
Financial Officer at Inmarsat and offers considerable finance expertise and experience of the
telecommunication sector . Ian Chippendale, who was formerly Chairman of the Audit Committee,
continues as our Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee, replacing Michael de Kare-Silver who resigned last year .
Over the year I have been greatly impressed by the professionalism of your Company. THUS 
sets high standards and demanding targets. Y et our ability to retain and recruit talented employees
in a tough recruitment market as we simultaneously grew new sources of revenue, and integrated 
two acquisitions ahead of plan, is testament to the quality of our employees and their commitment 
to your Company. I offer them all my heartiest thanks and congratulations for a particularly 
successful year .
Philip Rogerson 
Chairman
