 I am pleased to report that this has been 
another year of strong growth and achievement 
for your Company, with revenue up by 8% to 
£576.2 million, and the achievement of our 
first operating profit of £4.0 million compared 
with an operating loss
1
 of £9.5 million last year. 
It has been a busy year with major project 
implementations, growth in new services and 
the refinancing of our balance sheet, providing 
greater borrowing facilities on better terms  
than previously. 
I take great pride in your Company’s ability to 
win and successfully implement large Managed 
solutions contracts for our customers, and to 
continue to grow our next-generation services. 
Against the backdrop of a tough and challenging 
UK business services market, THUS has improved 
its competitive position and, once again, 
increased its market share. 
In addition to achieving the important milestone  
of operating profit we returned to positive free 
cash flow
2
 in the second half of the year,  
after the heavy investment in integration costs  
and the capital investment in the three major 
customer projects we announced last year. 
Indeed, 83% of capital investment this year was 
focused on customer related activity, up from the 
77% I announced last year. All of this bodes well 
for the future.
In July 2007 we refinanced our balance sheet 
with a new £1 10 million, five year facility on 
favourable terms. Our balance sheet strength, 
with net gearing at only 6.9%, gives our 
customers confidence and we maintain a  
healthy cash balance.
In June 2007 our largest shareholder, United 
Utilities, successfully disposed of its shareholding 
in your Company. As a consequence Martin 
Beesley, the Non-executive Director representing 
United Utilities, resigned from your Board. 
In December 2007 , Jo Connell resigned from  
your Board after seven years of service. Jo was 
an active and lively member of your Board  
who took a keen interest in many facets of  
your Company. Her insights and experience  
in technology and customer service were  
greatly valued.
We offer both Jo and Martin our thanks and best 
wishes for the future.
In November 2007 , we were pleased to welcome 
Alison Wood to your Board. Alison brings a 
wealth of experience in corporate strategy, 
government relations and mergers and acquisition 
activity, and will significantly reinforce our 
knowledge and expertise in these areas.
It is the energy and initiative of our staff in THUS 
that provides the fuel for our growth and many 
achievements. We recognise the challenge in 
our market and the uncertainty about the UK 
economy, but we are proud to have committed 
staff full of enterprise who share our optimism for 
the future. I offer them all my sincere thanks and 
congratulations for another successful year.
Philip Rogerson
Chairman
1 Operating loss stated before restructuring costs of  
£1.6m last year.
2 Operating cash after interest, taxation and capital 
expenditure. 
Philip Rogerson, Chairman (left) 
and William Allan, Chief Executive (right)
Directors’ Report:
Chairman’s Statement
It is the energy and initiative of our staff in  
THUS that provides the fuel for our growth  
and many achievements. 
>
12
THUS Group plc Annual Report 2008
