 10 Tikit Group plc
Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2009
Chief executive’s statement
dAvId LuMsden
ChIeF exe CutIve
highlights

  Our leading position in the UK 
legal market sector enables us 
to design software that meets 
our clients’ requirements.

  A key strategic goal is to grow 
contracted recurring revenues 
and so I am particularly pleased 
that, in 2009, revenues from 
Managed Services increased 
by 10% to £13.7m. 

  TfB won 43 new business 
contracts in 2009.

   Implementation of Tikit 
developed software should 
enable our clients to capitalise 
on their existing investment 
in CRM and Document 
Management systems.
The past year has been particularly difficult for 
Tikit. However, I strongly believe that the Group 
that has emerged from 2009 is a much more 
robust and focused business as a result of the 
actions taken during the year. 
The management team has proactively tackled 
the challenges we are facing and has also achieved 
good progress on developing many parts of our 
business. We have reviewed all operations and 
business locations and restructured the business 
onto a lower fixed cost base. This included 
terminating leases on a number of offices and 
closing them through the successful migration 
of employees to a work-from-home environment, 
creating more profitable business units. In addition, 
the rationalisation of some of our offerings has 
resulted in the potential for higher margins and 
higher utilisation of resources. The costs associated 
with the disruption, closure of offices and 
redundancies, have been absorbed during the 
year so that we begin 2010 with a clean sheet. 
It has been evident for some time that the 
weakening economic conditions have caused 
many law firms to revise their capital expenditure 
budgets and we saw a subsequent reduction 
of spend on large-scale software projects. 
As a result, our consultancy business was 
affected by lower than planned implementation 
revenues, and third-party software sales in the 
year were disappointing.
I am, however , pleased to report that we continue 
to make good progress with the Group’s strategy 
of building revenues from our proprietary software 
and support operations. Our leading position in 
the UK legal market sector enables us to design 
software that meets our clients’ requirements 
and provides a depth and breadth of support 
that is unmatched by our competitors. Our 
managed services business performed particularly 
well and now represents over 55% of total 
Group revenues. 
The Group currently operates across three core 
business streams: consultancy, managed services 
and software sales. Clients are delivered an 
integrated solution based upon a managed 
blend of these areas of expertise.
The table below summarises Group revenues 
by business category:
Y ear to  2009  2008 
31 December £’000 Change  £’000
Consultancy 5.4 (33%) 8.0
Managed  
services 13.7 10% 12.5
Software  
sales 5.0 (28%) 6.9
Other (incl.  
hardware) 1.1 Flat 1.1
T otal 25.2 (12%) 28.5
COnsuL tAnCy
Revenues from consultancy were 33% lower 
than those achieved during 2008. Many projects 
were delayed at short notice by clients and this 
had a significant effect, not only on revenues, 
but also on utilisation levels which have a larger 
effect on profits. Although we reduced the absolute 
level of consultants during the year, we feel it is 
fundamentally important to retain core expertise 
and, as a result, our utilisation levels fell to a 
greater extent than the straightforward effect 
of lower than planned software capital spend 
by some of our customers. 
Document Management, the backbone 
application for Tikit over the past 15 years, 
has developed to encompass the entire 
content management area within law firms 
and large accountancy practices. Enterprise 
search and web portal access now form an 
integral part of the expertise needed to be 
credible with clients and Tikit is recognised 
as leading consultants in all of these areas. 
The acquisition by Autonomy of Interwoven, 
our core document management software 
supplier, in February 2009, has been well 
received by our market. However , the subsequent 
integration of the core Autonomy IDOL Enterprise 
search functionality into the worksite family 
of products resulted in many law firms reviewing 
their document management and search strategies. 
We are confident that many opportunities will 
result from this but it had a short-term impact 
on business for Worksite software and 
implementation revenues during 2009.
Despite these factors Tikit still commenced 
work on two large scale Autonomy Worksite 
projects at Cameron McKenna and Denton 
Wilde Sapte, as well as delivering a successful 
proof of concept of the IDOL search platform 
to Uria y Menedez in Madrid.
Tikit is now established as the leading UK 
consultancy and implementation experts for 
Riverbed, a product used to resolve remote 
networking performance issues. We have now 
successfully deployed this exciting product 
into 14 large UK clients, including Kingston Smith, 
S J Berwin, Clyde & Co and Thomas Eggar . We are 
also implementing a large installation at Norton 
Rose. Our expertise in this area of infrastructure 
is now being more widely recognised and there 
have been a number of significant support 
contract wins including TIS, Goodman Derrick, 
Thomas Eggar, Travers and Boston University. 
We continue to secure large infrastructure 
refresh business, such as Radcliffes. Tikit Group plc
Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2009
Our business
11
MAnAGed servICes 
A key strategic goal is to grow contracted, 
recurring revenues and so I am particularly pleased 
that, in 2009, revenues from Managed Services 
increased by 10% to £13.7m (2008: £12.5m). 
Tikit now has approximately 1,000 clients taking 
contracted support services, including many 
in mainland Europe and the US. Contract 
retention rates remain steady at over 95%. 
The consolidation of our helpdesks into a single 
client interface and the implementation of the 
Client Care Management integrated software 
have not only improved our service to clients 
but have also improved the efficiency of our 
own operations. Clients can now receive 
self-service support and our management reports 
guide us to further opportunities for Tikit 
to offer other services, for example, training. 
An important software-development project 
at Freshfields, where we are upgrading Tikit’s 
accounting software, Firmware, to a 64 bit 
version, has been well received and should 
further improve our ability to provide 
managed services support to other Firmware 
clients as they upgrade to the latest version. 
In addition, the release of eMarketing version 
4.6, one of Tikit’s flagship products, has had a 
new interface written that was released at the 
end of 2009. This exciting new version will form 
the basis of a range of new developments and 
enhancements scheduled for this year and 
will improve software sales as well as increase 
recurring revenues.
sOFtWAre sALes
Revenues from software sales fell to 
£5.0m (2008: £6.9m) as a result of the 
deferment by some clients of capital projects. 
Sales of the market leading CRM software, 
LexisNexis InterAction, were lower than 
anticipated, with a commensurate shortfall 
in implementation revenues. 
Sales of Tikit-developed software, the intellectual 
property rights to which are vested in the Group, 
remain strong. Total sales of such Tikit software 
were £1.4m in the year and, although this is a 
slight decrease on the prior year (2008: £ 1.6m), 
the key products (eMarketing, House Style 
Manager and Partner for Windows) all showed 
strong sales in a tough market. In addition, the use 
of subscription pricing, especially on House Style 
Manager , understates the progress being made. 
t fB
The addition of TfB to the Group in April 2008 
not only made an important contribution to 
both revenues and profits during the year but 
has also increased the number of law firm 
clients serviced by the Group by about 500. 
It has been particularly satisfying to see the 
positive impact upon TfB‘s business as a 
result of TfB being part of the Group. 
During the worst economic downturn in the legal 
sector for over 20 years, profitability at TfB was 
maintained broadly in line with the previous year , 
itself a record year for the Company.
TfB won 43 new business contracts in 2009 
compared to 52 in 2008. However, the average 
order value almost doubled and therefore the 
Company had its best new business year on 
record. This now takes us to 95 new business 
wins since TfB has been part of the Group.
Partner for Windows development continued to 
be at the forefront of PMS and CMS development 
with the integration of MS SearchServer, 
redevelopment of the Purchase Ledger, 
an eCopy Connector and AGFS Billing for 
criminal work. These highlights were amongst 
over 200 enhancements added during 2009.
Our European subsidiaries, based in France and 
Spain, had a difficult year . This was not unexpected, 
given the change in the economic environment, 
as they are much more dependent upon new 
software sales than the more established parts 
of the Group. However, their performance in 
the second half was encouraging and profitable. 
Overall, they achieved a breakeven position 
on revenues of £3.0m (2008: £3.2m) and both 
companies are now making good progress with 
new customer wins and increased market share. 
OutLOOK
Given that challenging trading conditions are 
expected to continue over the next 12 to 18 
months, we will continue to focus on providing 
excellent service levels in order to maintain 
the high renewal rate of our managed services 
contracts. Revenues from these contracts 
represented 55% of Group revenues in 2009 
and are a key element of our strategy.
Implementation of Tikit-developed software 
should enable our clients to capitalise on their 
existing investment in CRM and Document 
Management systems as we provide high-value, 
low-cost, add-on applications. In addition, 
we anticipate increased penetration by TfB 
into the mid-sized law firm market as a result 
of it being part of Tikit Group.
The operational focus for 2010 will be to continue 
to place particular emphasis on Tikit-owned 
software sales, together with better utilisation 
of resources with strong cost control and cash 
management in order to deliver increased 
margins from an improved business mix.
Trading in the first 10 weeks of 2010 has been 
encouraging and we expect to meet our internal 
first quarter budgets. The reduced cost base 
and more focused operations in 2010 should 
help to mitigate our exposure to any further 
capital project deferrals by our clients.
dAvId LuMsden
ChIeF exe CutIve
tIKIt GrOup plc
10 MArCh 2010
