 14696 26/03/2008 Proof 5
All parts of the business made positive contributions to the Group’s results in
2007 . The Group currently operates and is managed across three co-ordinated
business streams: Consultancy, Managed Services and Software Sales. Clients are
delivered an integrated solution based upon a managed blend of these three areas
of expertise.
The table below summarises Group revenues by business category.
Increase/
Twelve months to 31 December 2007 2006 Decrease
£m £m %
Consultancy 7.9 7 .3 8.2
Managed services 9.6 7 .8 23.1
Software sales 8.1 7 .5 8.0
Other (incl. hardware) 0.8 0.8 —
TOTAL 26.4 23.5 12.4
Consultancy
Continuing our successful strategy of providing the highest level consultancy and
products into the large law firms and accountancy practices, we have made
further inroads into our target market with more new wins of our leading CRM and
DM products — LexisNexis InterAction and Interwoven WorkSite. In addition, we
have also secured new clients for our LexisNexis Redwood Business Intelligence
and Metastorm eWorks workflow applications. Both the Redwood and Metastorm
products require significant business consultancy and this has further established
Tikit’s reputation as a true business consulting partner to law firms looking to
exploit their investment in information technology.
The UK professional services operations improved in the second half of the year
and although revenues only grew by 8.2% over the whole of 2006, there was an
improvement in utilisation rates such that the profit contribution from these
activities improved by 16% over the prior year .
During the year , Tikit worked closely with the leading international law firm
Ashurst to complete the UK roll-out of their new Interwoven Document
Management System (‘DMS’). This was achieved in a very demanding time frame
with complete operational continuity being maintained during the transition from
their old DMS. The project achieved a special commendation at the recent Legal
Technology Awards. Other notable Interwoven DMS projects included the
implementation of an e-mail filing system and the introduction of access to the
DMS via Blackberries at Slaughter & May and the implementation of a fully
integrated DMS at Bech-Bruun in Copenhagen. We have also been involved in
DMS projects in Dubai and Estonia.
Another project to win an award for excellence in 2007 was the international roll-
out of the ‘InterLovells’ knowledge portal at Lovells.
In the accountancy sector , we have worked with one of the world’s leading
professional services organisations, Ernst & Young, in delivering a highly
customised implementation of the InterAction Client Relationship Management
(‘CRM’) system and carried out further CRM work at the private equity investment
group Apax Partners.
Chief Executive’s Statement > David Lumsden
Both the Redwood and Metastorm
products require significant
business consultancy and this has
further established Tikit’s
reputation as a true business
consulting partner to law firms
looking to expolit their investment
in information technology.
www.tikit.com | Chief Executive’s Statement Annual Report 2007 | Tikit Group plc 11
14696TIKITGRO:Layout 3  27/3/08  15:45  Page 11 As a result of growing compliance demands, we have implemented an Interwoven
Records Management project at Taylor Wessing and Metastorm BPM-based ‘New
Business Intake’ projects at a number of firms including Addleshaw Goddard LLP.
During the year we announced a partnership arrangement with Thomson Elite for
the consultancy and implementation of their new 3E product.
Tikit provided assistance with the implementation of the Elite Practice
Management System (‘PMS’) at Stephenson Harwood, procurement consulting
services to Burges Salmon and, through its growing relationship with Thomson
Elite, on-site resources for Allen & Overy’s ‘3E’ PMS implementation. The
innovative Business Intelligence system from LexisNexis has been launched in the
UK by Tikit and we have secured early success with this product at a number of
firms including SJ Berwin and Charles Russell LLP.
Investment in new technologies continued with the Microsoft SharePoint Group
working on projects at Withers and Shepherd & Wedderburn whilst a development
using the innovative indexing technology iBox was completed for Linklaters LLP.
Managed services
Total revenues from managed services increased by 23.1% in 2008 to £9.6m
(2006: £7 .8m). Tikit now has over 280 clients taking contracted support services
and a total of over 600 individual contracts. Geographically, we have 15 clients in
mainland Europe and 71 in the USA. Contract retention rate remains steady at
95%. The consolidation of our helpdesks into a single client interface and the
implementation of the Client Care Management integrated software have not only
improved our service to clients but have also improved the efficiency of our own
operations. Clients can now get self-service support if required and the
management reports provide us with further opportunities for improvements.
Our outsourcing business continues to grow and has been enhanced by the new
partnership with Compuware.
A further release of the Tikit KnowHow System (KHS) software developed by Tikit
following constructive input from the user group is about to be released and we
are optimistic that this release and the associated service offerings will underpin
further growth in this area in 2008.
Our technology infrastructure business, NIS, had a very good year implementing
a number of multi-site Citrix installations including new clients such as law firms
Wellers and Field Fisher Waterhouse as well as further wins in the accountancy
client base such as Chantrey Vellacott DFK. Tikit are now established as the
leading consultancy and implementation experts for Riverbed, a product used to
resolve remote networking performance issues, and has now successfully
deployed this exciting product into ten large law firm clients.
Chief Executive’s Statement > David Lumsden
Tikit now has over 280 clients
taking contracted support services,
and a total of over 600 individual
contracts. Geographically, we have
15 clients in mainland Europe and
71 in the USA.
Stock code : TIK 12 Tikit Group plc | Annual Report 2007 | Chief Executive’s Statement
14696 26/03/2008 Proof 5 146
14696TIKITGRO:Layout 3  27/3/08  15:45  Page 12 www.tikit.com | Chief Executive’s Statement
Software revenues
Total software revenues for the Group increased to £8.1m (2006: £7 .5m). This was
lower than our internal targets and was a result of slower than anticipated take-up
of newly introduced products such as Redwood, where considerable pre-sales
activity and modelling is required. We also invested considerable resource in the
development of applications to provide ‘out-of-box’ workflow solutions to our
clients based upon the Metastorm software and although some sales were made
in the final quarter , the momentum now attached to this offering should lead to
good levels of sales in 2008. Sales of Tikit developed software, to which we own
the Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), were encouraging, especially in the second
half. Total sales of Tikit IPR were £843,000, an increase of 17% over the prior year
(2006: £720,000).
In the final quarter of 2007 , we chose, in conjunction with one of our key software
partners, to offer subscription-based pricing to new clients. We believe that this
pricing model will become very important for us, especially in the legal sector and
the earlier than planned introduction, on a pilot basis, has given us a better
understanding of the impact on our business prior to setting 2008 expectations.
This is an exciting development for the Group and will secure more predictable
long-term revenues. However , there will be a short-term impact on both revenues
and profits as we move from initial licence fee recognition of software sales to
revenue recognition over typically five-year contracts.
Overseas
Tikit France has become a significant player in the French legal market with 53
clients, focusing on law firms and corporate legal departments. In 2007 , Tikit
France implemented its largest project to date at Salans by replacing an existing
DM system with Interwoven WorkSite. Tikit France continues to expand its
expertise and now covers a full range of services from Time & Billing systems
through accounting, to CRM and DM.
Tikit Spain now has 29 clients, again focusing on law firms and corporate legal
departments, throughout all regions of Spain and, with a complete portfolio of
specific solutions, has became the most influential consultancy for the Spanish
Legal Sector .
David Lumsden
Chief Executive
11 March 2008
Sales of Tikit developed software,
to which we own the Intellectual
Property Rights (IPR) were
encouraging, especially in the
second half — an increase of 17%
over the prior year .
13 Annual Report 2007 | Tikit Group plc
14696 26/03/2008 Proof 5
14696TIKITGRO:Layout 3  27/3/08  15:45  Page 13
