 Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that the first full  
financial year of operations for TLA Worldwide plc  
(TLA or the Group) has been a successful one. 
Following TLA’s listing on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) on 8 December 2011,  
it has fully integrated its portfolio companies under one unified brand, and completed a  
bolt-on acquisition of Peter E. Greenberg & Associates (PEG) to further extend our reach into 
Major League Baseball (MLB) by targeting the high growth region of Latin America. We also 
realigned and enhanced the Group’s sales functions. As a result, TLA is now a market leader  
in the representation of professional baseball players. 
TLA has also expanded its sports marketing offering. It is particularly strong in talent  
marketing, with special competencies in the representation of broadcasters, coaches and 
professional golfers. The short listing of TLA as Best in Talent Representation and Management 
at the prestigious 2013 Sports Business Awards is a testimony to the hard work of our people 
and the growing reputation of the Group.
Review of results
For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group reported:
 w revenues of $15.1 million;
 w operating profit of $1.2 million;
 w adjusted EBITDA
1
 of $6.6 million;
 w contracted revenues for future periods now stand at $40 million; 
 w cash at the end of the period was $4.1 million; and
 w the payment of our maiden dividend of 0.6 pence per share, reflecting the confidence  
of the board in the cash generation of the Group.
Review of operations
The operational integration of TLA following our acquisition of PEG is complete with PEG reposi-
tioning itself within the TLA brand. We currently have more than 50 full-time personnel and nine 
locations worldwide (London, New York City, Newport Beach, San Francisco, Houston, Charleston 
SC, Phoenix, Miami and Maracay in Venezuela). There have been 52 net new client wins in 2012, 
demonstrating the benefits of the combined Group and reflecting the efforts of our team. 
Nine locations 
worldwide (London, 
New York City, Newport 
Beach, San Francisco, 
Houston, Charleston 
SC, Phoenix, Miami and 
Maracay in Venezuela)
6
TLA Worldwide PLC     In January 2013, we renegotiated and expanded our banking facility to include a revolving 
facility to fund any future acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. We also appointed 
Numis Securities Limited as nominated adviser and broker to TLA as we strive to move the 
business forward.
Board changes
In June 2012, Andy Pearson was appointed as a non-executive director to the Board.  
Andy brings substantial experience to the Group. As a senior partner at KPMG for 16 years  
he formed and led KPMG’s Transaction Services business in the Midlands between 1999 and 
2005 and led work on more than 100 M&A or financing transactions. 
Additionally, effective 29 November 2012, Gareth Jones, TLA’s group financial controller, was 
promoted to chief financial officer and has joined the Group’s Board. Gareth joined TLA having 
previously advised the Group on its flotation. Previously, Gareth spent four years within the 
Audit and Assurance practice of Ernst & Young, where he worked on companies varying in size 
from start-ups to FTSE 100 clients. He holds a CA qualification and a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Outlook
The start of 2013 has been positive and is in line with the Board’s expectations for the year. 
The cash position continues to be strong with cash on balance sheet of $1.2 million as at  
31 March 2013, after the payment of $2.2 million in earn-outs, and 70% of our forecast 2013 
revenue is currently contracted.
From an industry perspective, the strong underlying fundamentals of MLB were further 
confirmed through the recent doubling of its national media rights values to $1.55 billion  
per annum from 2014 to 2021. Additionally, the global sports marketing industry is  
trending positively following the highly successful London 2012 Olympics. Growth in sports 
marketing and sponsorship in the US continues to be robust and TLA is well placed to capture 
this market upswing. 
This year we have delivered a strong set of results and we have performed in line with 
expectations, proving the business model to investors. We remain focused on developing  
the business, expanding our client base and improving the value of the Group’s offering.  
The economic and growth trends are favourable for the sports marketing industry, specifically 
in baseball and the USA generally. We remain confident about TLA’s long-term growth.
The start of 2013 has been positive and is in line with the Board’s expectations for the year. 
The cash position continues to be strong with cash on balance sheet of $1.2 million as at  
31 March 2013, after the payment of $2.2 million in earn-outs, and 70% of our forecast 2013 
revenue currently contracted.
Bart Campbell
Chairman
22 April 2013
7
    Annual Report 2012
