 We are pleased to report on good 
operational and financial performance 
for 2013.
The results reflect a growing momentum across the Group, driven by organic growth as well 
as the acquisition of PEG, the New York City based baseball practice, in late 2012. Overall 
trading conditions in North American baseball and sports marketing, the mainstay of the 
Group’s business, continue to be positive. 
These factors enabled the Group to consolidate on its strong position in the baseball 
sector where it climbed to number 1 rank in total clients, increasing the total client roster of 
professional baseball players to 249, up from 173 in the previous year.
The total overall client base of TLA increased by 16% to 440 compared with 2012 and 
the Group’s activities cover a variety of major international sports including baseball, golf, 
basketball, American football and Olympic athletes.
The Group’s reported results do not include an item of revenue within our baseball 
division, invoiced in December 2013, as the amounts have not yet been recovered from the 
client. In March 2014 the Group commenced proceedings to recover fees of $1.6 million it 
believes are due. Given the uncertainty around the eventual timing and outcome of that 
process, no revenue has been included in the 2013 results. Inclusion of these amounts in 
the year end 31 December 2013, assuming a full recovery, would have resulted in Headline 
EBITDA of $8.7 million and revenue of $20.2 million.
Total long-term contracted revenues rose 45% to $58 million (2012: $41 million) providing 
excellent forward revenue visibility. Both the US baseball market and the wider sports 
marketing industry globally have continued to enjoy excellent long-term fundamentals. 
This provided a positive backdrop for the Group last year and supports the Group’s future 
prospects. 
Market opportunity and strategy
According to industry estimates, the overall US sports market is worth approximately $48 
billion per annum, with the key segments of sponsorship and media rights worth over $9 
billion and $12 billion per annum respectively. These segments are forecast to grow faster 
than the overall US sports market at 6.3% and 7.8% per annum against growth of 4.7% for 
the overall market. 
Strategic report 
Chairman’s statement
BART CAMPBELL
Chairman,
29 April 2014
Baseball sector
Number 1 rank in  
total clients
Total overall client base 
of TLA increased by 16% 
to 440 
2012
2013
12 TLA Worldwide PLC      $4.5 billion in 2010 
to 
  $8.3 billion in 2013 
Baseball, which currently accounts for 70% of our revenue, is a huge industry and 
highly profitable at MLB club level. It has historically proven to be recession resistant, is 
well regulated with a defined salary and career structure for its players, and has also grown 
steadily. Total MLB revenues have increased from approximately $4.5 billion in 2010 to $8.3 
billion in 2013, reflecting rising gate receipts and national, international and local media 
rights fees. 
To put the size of the baseball market into context, the aggregate MLB revenues 
amounted to more than $30 billion over the past four years compared with $13.5 billion for 
the Premier League and $8 billion for the four year Olympic cycle to London 2012. In addition, 
the agreement over a new media broadcasting rights deal from 2014 will significantly 
increase the revenue to MLB and MLB players over the next eight years. 
TLA’s strategy remains to expand our activities in a range of major sports in North 
America and other key regions where the core sports at the heart of our business have 
value. While our focus will be on organic growth, the Group will also look for acquisition 
opportunities that allow us to consolidate and widen our position within our target markets. 
People
In order to support the Group’s expansion, we continue to invest in staff, including several 
senior level hires within the operating businesses such as a head of media consulting. We also 
appointed Don Malter as our new Chief Financial Officer on 17 September 2013. 
Outlook
Following significant investment in people and resources, TLA has established a solid 
foundation to implement the Group’s growth strategy and take advantage of excellent sports 
market fundamentals. We will continue to seek selective talent and business acquisitions  
to enhance our service offering and geographic reach, to ensure we service our growing  
client base. 
Excellent progress has also been made in broadening the revenue base through the launch 
of new proprietary sports events, which will make a small contribution from this year and are 
expected to grow over the long term.
We got into our stride in 2013, resulting in strong revenue growth, achieving the leading 
position in baseball representation and a rapidly expanding client list and sports marketing 
business. The Group’s first quarter revenues are up on the same period last year and the trading 
momentum remains encouraging across all activities. The outlook for 2014 is positive given the 
new long-term media and broadcasting rights in baseball and our developing events business. 
The business of sports is currently benefitting from excellent long-term fundamentals. With 
good trading momentum and the US baseball industry set to reap higher media rights revenues 
from this year, we look to deliver solid growth for the year, underpinned by excellent forward 
revenue visibility. As a result, the Board looks to the future with confidence. This has enabled 
the Group to continue our progressive dividend policy, with a 17% increase in the dividend per 
share in 2014.
Total long-term 
contracted revenues rose 
45% to $58 million
The Board looks to the 
future with confidence 
with a 17% increase in the 
dividend per share in 2014
2012
2013
Total mlb revenues
13 Annual Report 2013 Jerry Kill
Head football coach, 
University of Minnesota
