 CHAIRMAN‘S STATEMENT
It has always been your Company’s intention to
maximise the value of its large nickel resource base
through product beneficiation. It is very pleasing
therefore, to report that shortly after the end of the
year under review, we signed a memorandum of
understanding with Jiangxi Rare Earth and Rare
Metals Tungsten Group, a major, State owned,
Chinese metals producer, for the financing and
construction of a, jointly owned, nickel cobalt leaching
plant and associated refinery. The leaching plant, 
with an annual capacity of up to 40,000 tonnes mixed
hydroxide product, will be sited in the Philippines and
will treat ore from our Ipilan deposit located on the
east coast of Palawan island. The refinery will be
located in China. 
As to the year under review, the first year of full
operations at our Berong nickel mine on the west
coast of Palawan proved challenging for local
management. In addition to learning to cope with the
impact of severe weather conditions on production
and shipping, the market price for nickel more than
halved during the year and Chinese demand for direct
shipping ore from the Philippines declined significantly
in preference for higher grade Indonesian ore. 
Fortunately, the Berong operations are in a near unique
position with a secure offtake contract with BHP
Billiton for the supply of 500,000 tonnes per annum
direct shipping ore to its nickel refinery in Queensland,
Australia. Moreover, should market conditions warrant,
Berong can produce and ship at least twice this
amount for negligible additional capital expenditure.
Meantime and as mentioned previously, we continue
to progress our plans to add value to our large nickel
resources through beneficiation.
An important development in this regard occurred in
June 2008, when we welcomed European Nickel plc 
to our register as the single largest shareholder
(19.3%) and also as a partner (18.7%) in Berong Nickel
Corporation. This followed a transaction between
European Nickel, Investika Ltd of Australia and our
then Chairman, Chris Kyriakou. 
OUR ULTIMATE AIM REMAINS THE SAME AS
EVER: TO MAXIMISE SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
FROM BEING A SIGNIFICANT, PROFITABLE
PLAYER IN THE NICKEL INDUSTRY.
04 Toledo Mining Corporation Plc
Annual Report 2008 Our principal local Philippine partner, Atlas Consolidated
Mining and Development Corporation, signalled its
support for the European Nickel transaction by
waiving its pre-emptive rights to Investika’s interest in
Berong Nickel Corporation. Atlas Consolidated is a
major company in its own right and remains an
important and valued ally for Toledo.
European Nickel has leading edge experience in the
heap leaching of laterite ores and is applying its
proprietary technology to the development of its Caldag
nickel deposit in western Turkey. Additionally, the
company’s extensive exploration portfolio includes a
joint venture on Rusina Mining’s Acoje nickel deposit in
the Philippines where European Nickel also operates
a leaching test facility.
Following European Nickel’s purchase of its interest in
your Company, Chris Kyriakou, Bob Cleary and Roger
Shakesby resigned as directors to be replaced by
Simon Purkiss and Felix Pole. I would like to extend
my sincere thanks to Messrs Cleary and Shakesby for
their contribution to the development of the Company
and especially to Chris Kyriakou, who, as Executive
Chairman, played a lead role in securing and developing
our nickel interests.
Simon Purkiss is a co-founder and Managing Director
of European Nickel. Simon is a metallurgical engineer
with over 25 years’ operational and management
experience in the metals industries with particular
emphasis on the mining and treatment of nickel.
Felix Pole was a co-founder of European Nickel and
remains advisor to that company. Felix has a broad
financial and industrial background including having
been a director of Titan Resources NL, a nickel miner
which, through Pacific Ore Technology, developed the
Bioheap bacterial leaching process for nickel and
copper sulphide ores. 
We are fortunate to be able to welcome Simon and
Felix to the Board and we can only benefit from their
considerable industry specific experience and
demonstrated business acumen. Likewise, I have no
doubt that European Nickel will be a supportive and
beneficial shareholder . Already, the application of
European Nickel’s leaching technology to Berong’s
ore is under active investigation and a test program is
underway at European Nickel’s Philippine test facility. 
Our operating plan for the year ahead assumes that
the nickel price will remain around current levels and
that Chinese demand for Philippine direct shipping ore
will continue to be muted. We will, nonetheless,
maintain continuous dialogue with our customer base
with a view to the profitable utilisation of presently
spare productive capacity at Berong whilst, at the
same time, pursuing further, sensible, operating cost
reductions. We will, of course, focus our efforts on
meeting our obligations under the recently signed
memorandum of understanding and we will progress
further value adding opportunities. 
That we are able to move forward so positively is due
in no small measure to the efforts of our management
team and Philippine workforce, led most capably by
our Chief Executive, George Bujtor . Thanks to them,
we have managed not only to secure our operating
base in the Philippines, underpinned by the offtake
contract with BHP Billiton, but also taken a significant
step in adding value to our nickel resources through
beneficiation. I wish to congratulate George and his
staff for this achievement.
Our ultimate aim remains the same as ever: to
maximise shareholder returns from being a significant,
profitable player in the nickel industry.
Reginald Eccles
12 August 2008
Berong operations are in a near unique position with a 
secure offtake contract with BHP Billiton for the supply of 
500,000 tonnes per annum direct shipping ore to its nickel 
refinery in Queensland, Australia.
+
500,000
05 Toledo Mining Corporation Plc
Annual Report 2008
Supervision of trucks at coastal stockpile area
