 CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
The Berong Nickel Mine has been in operation for just
over one year and has successfully made shipments
of laterite ore to Chinese and Australian customers.
For the full year April 1 2007 through March 31 2008,
approximately 467,278 tonnes of ore at an average
grade of 1.52% Ni was shipped. From the
commencement of trial metallurgical shipments in
January 2007 until the end of June 2008, approximately
815,000 tonnes of ore at an average grade of 1.52% 
Ni was shipped into the market place.
Many of the temporary facilities put into place to
capture the benefits of historically high nickel prices
have been replaced by permanent facilities. These
include the office complex, accommodation facilities,
the laboratory, the heavy equipment workshops and
environmental structures. The Dangla Road which
was planned for construction for 2007 was deferred
until 2008 due to the delays in gaining all the
necessary approvals. Still under evaluation are the
trestle/pylon conveyor and ship loader, and the
development of the Dangla Bay as an additional
stockpile area and barge loading facility. 
Operationally, wet weather and rough sea conditions
have had greatest impact on mine production and ship
loading, respectively. The extreme wet conditions, with
over 4 meters of annual rainfall at the mine site, make
mining and drying of the laterite ore difficult. Similarly,
the rough sea conditions during the period October
through February make the trans-shipment of laterite
ore from barge to the ocean going vessel unsafe and
difficult. Without a trestle conveyor, ship loading is
restricted to about 7 months of the year .
Notwithstanding the elements, mine production is
being progressively ramped up and optimized at an
output rate of greater than 1 million tonnes per
annum using the existing infrastructure.
The Company continues to set new standards in
responsible mining in the Philippines, and is being
given full recognition as a role model for the mining
industry. The development of systems for international
certification in environmental management (ISO14001)
and occupational health and safety (ISO 18001)
continue to make good progress. Rehabilitation of the
initial mined out areas had been undertaken, and a
research area planted with various tree species.
Rehabilitation around the coastal stockpile areas has
also been undertaken. Over 112,000 endemic and
value added trees (mahogany, rubber, jatropha), more
than 230,000 stands of vetiver and other grasses, over
1,240 fruit trees, 5,500 pineapples, and 2,000
vegetables have been planted to meet our obligations
of 50 new trees planted for every tree cut. In addition,
over 175,000 wildlings have been collected for 
on-going progressive rehabilitation.
Under the Company’s MOU with the local indigenous
peoples, approximately US$360,000 was paid as part
of the mandated royalty payments of 1% of gross
revenue from laterite ore sales. Funds from the royalty
payment are being used to establish essential
community services as well as livelihood projects.
Under the Company’s Social Development and
Management Plan, spending has been directed at
community projects like potable water systems,
footbridge over the Berong River, school buildings,
health clinic, medical services and ambulance coverage.
WHILST THE DIRECT SALE OF LATERITIC 
NICKEL ORE HAS BEEN A SUCCESS, THE 
LONG TERM FUTURE OF THE COMPANY RESTS
WITH IN-COUNTRY VALUE ADDED PROCESSING 
TO LEVERAGE OFF THE LARGE PRE-JORC
RESOURCE OF OVER 350 MILLION TONNES 
OF NICKEL LATERITE.
06 Toledo Mining Corporation Plc
Annual Report 2008 The markets for Berong laterite nickel ore include
dominantly China and Australia. In mid-2007 the
Company signed a long term supply agreement with
Queensland Nickel Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary
of BHP Billiton, for up to 500,000 tonnes of ore per
annum. Since September 2007, approximately 293,410
tonnes of ore has been shipped to BHP Billiton under
the agreement, with the remainder of the ore
shipments sold opportunistically to Chinese
customers. Additional long term contracts are being
sought in China.
The Chinese market for laterite nickel ore has split
into two segments. The production of nickel pig iron
for the stainless steel sector can be sourced from
either the blast furnace process (requiring medium
grade nickel ore with associated high iron grades) or
the electric arc furnace process (requiring high grade
nickel ore with associated low iron grades). Berong is
well positioned to supply both ore types. In the
medium term, the market for blast furnace feed is
expected to decline in line with the Chinese
Government policy to shut down all the small blast
furnaces by year 2010. This is likely to lead to
increased production from electric arc furnaces and
hence demand for higher grade nickel laterite ores. 
Whilst the direct sale of lateritic nickel ore has been a
success, the long term future of the Company rests
with in-country value added processing to leverage off
the large pre-JORC resource of over 350 million
tonnes of nickel laterite managed by the Company. 
Considerable metallurgical sampling and testing has
been undertaken on the various ore types at both
Berong and Ipilan. The leaching processes tested
include high pressure acid leaching (HPAL),
atmospheric leaching (AL) and heap leaching (HL).
Nickel and cobalt extraction rates under all three
leaching processes have produced excellent results.
SNC Lavalin has produced estimates of the capital
and operating costs of all three leaching processes
and the results are being evaluated as to the best
processing option to employ.
European Nickel became a major shareholder and
joint venture partner mid-way through 2008. This is
seen as positive as the company has leading edge
experience in heap leaching which will be invaluable 
in assessing the processing options most suitable for
the Berong ore bodies. The recently signed MOU with
Jiangxi Rare Earth and Rare Metals Tungsten Group
Co. Ltd on the Celestial deposit provides an early
opportunity to produce a mixed hydroxide product
using either AL or HPAL. 
Exploration and permitting activities in the tenement
areas adjacent to the Berong mine, and the Celestial
deposit, continued in parallel with mining and shipping
activities. The Celestial deposit was extensively drilled
and test pitted with over 80,000 meters of sampling
undertaken. Internal estimates suggest a geological
resource of approximately 75 million tonnes of laterite
ore  at an estimated grade of around 1.25% nickel.
Snowdens Mining Industry Consultants is currently
preparing the JORC compliant report. Studies
continue on the development of a ‘Direct Shipping
Operation’ to compliment the ore currently being
shipped out from Berong. The Celestial deposit/Ipilan
Project is located on the east coast of Palawan and
will therefore benefit from year round shipping without
interruption.
The achievements over the last year would not have
been possible without the dedicated efforts of all our
people, and the support of the local community, the
Local Government Units, the Provincial Government,
and the National Government. I congratulate them all
and look forward to another successful year ahead.
George Bujtor
12 August 2008
07 Toledo Mining Corporation Plc
Annual Report 2008
Drill cores of mineralised nickel laterite profile Excavator loading ore at Berong mine
