 page 6 Toledo Mining Corporation plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
f inancial
For the financial year to 31 March 2012, Toledo reported a pre-tax loss of £0.5 million, a decrease of
£3.9 million compared with a loss of £4.4 million in the previous year. This improvement is principally
attributable to our £1.1 million share of profit in our associated company, Berong Nickel Corporation
(BNC) (2011: £1.2 million share of loss) and a substantially reduced impairment charge of £0.3 million
in respect of the carrying value of our investment in Ipilan Nickel Corporation (INC) (2011: £0.9 million
impairment of INC and £0.7 million impairment of Atlas Consolidated Mining and Development
Corporation (Atlas) loan).
During the year Toledo received full negotiated settlement of the Atlas loan of US$4.5 million. Cash 
at the end of the financial year totalled £2.6 million (2011: £1.9 million).
Berong
The strategy agreed with our partners in BNC to target production of ore containing 1.8% nickel resulted
in the Berong mine successfully recommencing operations in May 2011 at a time of favourable market
conditions for high grade saprolite ore. The mine ramped up to targeted production capacity in June 2011
and by the end of March 2012 626,955 wet metric tonnes (wmt) of run-of-mine ore grading 1.84%
nickel had been mined. 
Direct ore shipping to China recommenced in July 2011 and during the period under review, eight
shipments were successfully completed totalling 420,527 wmt of ore yielding approximately 4,850
tonnes of contained nickel. Total shipped tonnages from July 2011 to date amounted to 839,000 wmt 
(16 vessels) and will yield approximately 9,400 tonnes of contained nickel. With this level of nickel
production capacity, Berong has regained its position as a notable player in the nickel market.
BNC reported audited profit after tax for the year ended 31 March 2012 amounting to PHP 141.8 million
(£2.1 million) and is currently self-financing from operations. Toledo has a 56.1% economic interest 
in BNC.
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Victor Kolesnikov
developing operations
based on responsible
practices  page 7
Operations for 2012 proceeded in accordance with plans, until a moratorium on the granting of new
licences and permits was imposed, pending the publication of a new presidential Executive Order. This
Order is designed to harmonise government policies on mining, the environment and the mandate of
Local Government Units in the Philippines. This resulted in a delay in the granting of our subsequent
tree cutting permit and consequently we were forced to revise our mining plan to include mining
grades lower than 1.8% to maximise our export tonnages during the 2012 shipping window. 
Following publication of the new Executive Order, BNC’s application for a special tree cutting permit
has now been favourably recommended to the Department of Environment and Natural Resources
(DENR), the final approving authority, and we are optimistic that a new permit will be received soon.
This will enable us to resume mining the high grade 1.8% ore and return to our previously stated
objective of an annual production capacity of 750,000 wmt. At this production rate, the Berong mine
has sufficient known reserves of 1.8% grade ore for up to nine years of operation. However, it is our
intention to ensure that long before these reserves are depleted, exploration in this highly prospective
region will have added significant resources. 
The coastal portion of the Long Point prospect located some 30 kilometres north-east of the Berong
mine is the most prospective area for exploration. This area lies within an Environmental Critical Area
Network (ECAN) within which exploration is not currently permitted. A pre-requisite for the exclusion 
of the Long Point tenement from the ECAN is a revision of the land use map and to that end the local
council passed a Municipal Ordnance on 29 June 2010. We remain hopeful, therefore, that with the
support of the local council, we shall be granted permission to explore. It should be noted that the
south-eastern half of the mining tenement being applied for is outside the ECAN zone. During the last
accounting period, data from previous exploration work carried out in the 1970’s became available to
BNC. We are currently re-evaluating this data and expect it to increase our confidence in the earlier
assessment of the potential resources.
Our 2011 marketing strategy to focus on taking advantage of strong spot market prices as a result of
increased demand from China for high grade ore, has proven to be the right course of action. Despite
the recent drop in refined nickel prices, the payable factor of nickel content in the high grade ore has
increased significantly this year. Coupled with continued strong demand from China, this gives us
increased confidence for the future of our direct ore shipping operations at Berong. As soon as we 
have secured our tree cutting permit, we shall continue to move forward in close and constant
co-operation with potential customers for long term contracts.
Plans to extend the causeway in the port area are being finalised and will be submitted shortly for
approval by the local authorities. Whilst the causeway extension will not prolong the shipping window, 
it will greatly improve barge-loading efficiency.
Berong has regained
its position as a
notable player in 
the nickel market
total shipped tonnages
to date amounted 
to 839,346 wmt which
will yield 9,400 tonnes 
of contained nickel
Berong has sufficient known
reserves of 1.8% grade ore for 
up to nine years of operation page 8 Toledo Mining Corporation plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
we continue to 
assess the viability 
of value-added
technologies for 
our lower grade
limonitic ore 
market conditions
It is very important to highlight that we are currently witnessing a significant change in Chinese stainless
steel production practice which has positive implications for the future of Berong’s high grade ore product. 
This new development involves the integration of electric arc furnace ferronickel production directly into
stainless steel operations. Ferronickel in liquid form goes directly into converters for stainless steel slab
production and this provides significant energy savings. In this instance, high grade saprolite ore, which
has an average iron content of between 15-20%, becomes the ultimate source of both the nickel and
the iron required for stainless steel production. In the current difficult market conditions, the integration
of stainless steel production directly from saprolitic ore presents a new opportunity for Berong as the
iron in the ore has an intrinsic value. This gives us greater confidence in sustainable demand for our high
grade saprolitic ore from low cost integrated ferronickel/stainless steel producers. In addition, Berong’s
close proximity to China gives it a geographical advantage compared with Indonesian and New
Caledonian producers. Moreover, Indonesia has restricted direct ore shipping operations with producers
from the Philippines being the principal beneficiaries.
Value-added opportunities
While the market in our high grade ore will be sufficient to provide BNC with a robust return to its
shareholders, we continue to assess the viability of value-added technologies for the lower grade
limonitic ore, which makes up a substantial proportion of BNC’s resources. Past studies conducted by
SNC-Lavalin (a highly regarded global engineering and technical organisation) confirmed that the most
suitable and proven technology for this type of low grade ore is high pressure acid leaching (HPAL). At
the same time, we shall continue to monitor all new developments in China to ensure that the strategy
is constantly refined and reviewed to align with market demands. SNC-Lavalin has been retained to
update its study and GHD, a renowned firm of Australian engineering consultants, has also been
retained to conduct an environmental engineering study.
It is worth mentioning here that the majority of nickel analysts’ reports on HPAL technology only 
seem to focus on two significant HPAL projects: Vale’s Goro project in New Caledonia and Ambatovy 
in Madagascar. Rarely is mention given to the highly successful HPAL project, Coral Bay (a joint venture
between Sumitomo Metal Mining and Nickel Asia) located on Palawan Island in the Philippines. In 2006,
Coral Bay’s first line of 10,000 tonnes of nickel per annum was ramped up to full capacity in just eight
months and in 2009, its second line of 12,000 tonnes of nickel per annum took less than two months
to reach full production.
Coral Bay is one of the most successful HPAL plants in the world and having such highly proven
technology on our doorstep in Palawan, not only provides a precedent, but gives us further assurance
that this technology is both suitable and offers a great opportunity for Berong to realise value from 
its limonitic ore.
Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued) BNC’s commitment to the 
National Greening Programme is 
to rehabilitate 65 ha. of open areas
within three years
Berong continues 
to set the regional
benchmark in 
best practice for 
its environmental
protection and safety 
page 9
Environment, h ealth & Safety and Corporate Social Responsibility
Berong continues to set the regional benchmark in best practice for its environmental protection 
and safety. The high standards of environmental protection and enhancement activities are used 
as a yardstick for other mining companies in the Philippines. 
Funds from the Company’s Social Development and Management Programme (SDMP) and royalty
payments made to the indigenous people, continue to provide essential services to the community 
as well as establishing livelihood projects, which aim to empower the local community in generating 
its own sustainable income. 
Acquisition of interest in BNC from ENK
ENK plc (ENK) announced in May 2012 that it intended to sell its 18.7% interest in BNC for
US$6,552,000. ENK had also sold its remaining 5.1% interest in Toledo, advising the market that 
these assets were no longer core to its strategic interests. Toledo’s board of directors has exercised 
the Company’s pre-emption right under the Berong Shareholders Agreement to acquire ENK’s interest 
in BNC and a deposit of 10% of the sale price has been paid to ENK by Toledo with the balance of
US$5,895,000 being due on completion by the end of December. The Board is presently considering 
all options for the funding of this acquisition. Given the joint venture structure, the decision to increase
our direct holding in BNC is a positive step for Toledo. 
Ipilan
The Company was approached by Jinchuan Group, China's largest nickel producer and an offer was
made to purchase the joint venture partners' interests in INC. The due diligence period expired and the
parties were unable to agree terms. Despite this outcome, the offer process established an open market
valuation for the project and the evaluation work conducted by Jinchuan through its due diligence has
given us renewed confidence in the value of retaining this asset for development.
The Declaration of Mining Feasibility (DMF) and its associated documents for approval to mine 
at Ipilan were lodged in November 2010. During 2011, additional consultations with the residents of
impacted communities were carried out as required by the MGB. Activities during 2012 have focused
on finalising the requirements for the DMF and the final reports should be available by the end of
October. Meanwhile development concepts for the project are continuing.
An updated tree inventory covering the mining area has been completed and the corresponding
application for a special tree cutting permit is now lodged with the DENR. All critical documentation is
being updated to conform to the requirements of the MGB. Full compliance is anticipated by November
2012 when the boundary survey, requiring three months of field work, will have been completed. page 10 Toledo Mining Corporation plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Subsequent activities will include the detailed project engineering, the preparation of a bankable
feasibility study and the securing of all construction and related business permits.
Board and management changes
We are grateful to Reg Eccles for his contribution and leadership during this period of transition 
for the Company and look forward to continuing our progress under the chairmanship of 
Constantine Thanassoulas.
We have also taken steps during the year to strengthen our management team with the appointment
of Adrian Harvey as Chief Financial Officer and Pierre Charlent as Chief Operating Officer. 
Outlook
We remain upbeat about the prospects for BNC on the back of the significant changes occurring in 
the development of Chinese ferronickel and stainless steel production.
We believe the market for our high grade ore is solid and has the potential to generate substantial
income for BNC which can then be invested in advancing the value-added processing project. Despite
difficult economic conditions and the relative weakness in the nickel price, the long term outlook for
nickel is robust and supports our ambition to pursue this value-added opportunity.
All of these activities and our aspirations for the future would not be possible without the dedicated
and unceasing support of our staff and management, both in the Philippines and in the UK and I offer
my sincerest thanks to you all. In addition, I wish to acknowledge the co-operation and support of 
the local community in the Philippines, the Local Government Units and the Provincial and National
Governments as our operations continue to forge strong relationships. Last but not least, I extend 
my thanks to our shareholders for their continued support.
We look to the year ahead with growing confidence and optimism.
Victor Kolesnikov
Chief Executive Officer
24 August 2012
Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
