 6 
 
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
 
The Berong nickel mine, in which Toledo has a 56.1% economic interest, successfully 
recommenced operations in May 2011.This became possible due to favourable market conditions 
for high grade saprolite nickel ores and strong nickel prices which have stayed above 
US$20,000/tonne since August 2010. Prior to reopening the Berong mine, Toledo developed a 
new strategy with its JV partners in Berong Nickel Corporation (BNC) to target production of nickel 
ore containing 1.8% nickel, which is currently being implemented.  
 
The 1.8% plan was developed consistent with growing market demands for this ore type.  The 
recent significant changes in market demand for high grade saprolite nickel ore have opened up 
sound prospects for our deposits. Historically, the development of exports of high grade saprolite 
nickel ore began from New Caledonia during the 1950's by Japanese ferronickel producers. Later, 
they extended their ore source market to Indonesia and the Philippines. The requirement for nickel 
content in the ore in 2001 was very high at 2.45%, which is why only a few nickel ore producers in 
the Philippines could compete in this market. 
 
From 2003, the European manufacturers of ferronickel also started using high grade saprolite ore 
from Asia in their Electric Arc Furnace (EAF) production, thereby competing with Japanese 
consumers. By the end of 2006, the typical nickel content of high grade saprolite ores exported 
from New Caledonia, Indonesia and the Philippines had fallen to 2.2% nickel due to a general 
decline in the grade of existing deposits and also due to the increased demand for ore. The most 
significant changes in the market began in 2006, when China began to use nickel ore for the 
production of nickel pig iron (NPI) in blast furnaces, which were previously used for iron production.  
 
As the technology for production of pig iron in blast furnaces requires high iron content in raw 
materials, the Chinese manufacturers mainly used limonitic nickel ores with high iron content (45-
55%) and low nickel content (0.9-1%). The proportion of high grade saprolitic ore in the blast 
furnaces' production of NPI was relatively small. At the time of the crash in nickel prices at the end 
of 2008, China did not yet have substantial numbers of EAF plants for ferronickel production, and 
had not yet created competition in the market for high grade ores. However, it rapidly became clear 
to the Chinese ferronickel and NPI producers that the use of EAF for ferronickel production using 
high grade ores was much more competitive compared to NPI production in blast furnaces. 
  
By early 2011, China had already built significant numbers of EAF plants for the production of 
ferronickel. This dramatically increased the demand for high grade saprolitic ore, resulting in a 
decrease in the average available grade from 2.2% to 1.8% nickel content. All of this has led to the 
Berong deposit, with its substantial reserves of 1.8% nickel ore grade, becoming very competitive 
against the previous market leaders in high grade ore production from New Caledonia, Indonesia 
and the Philippines. 
 
The restart of the Berong mine by BNC was facilitated by the sale of the existing stockpile of low 
grade ore, produced in 2008, the proceeds of which are being used as working capital to support 
mining operations. Currently, 103,530 wet metric tonnes (wmt) of nickel ore with an average grade 
of 1.54% nickel has been shipped from the existing stockpile, yielding a revenue of US$2.57 million 
to BNC. 
 
To date, a further 160,569 wmt of ore with a nickel content of 1.8% has been mined and delivered 
to the stockpile. We anticipate producing a total of 450,000 wmt of ore containing 1.8% nickel by 
the end of this year, from which we expect to ship 200,000-250,000 wmt in this shipping season. 
Because Berong uses barges to load ships offshore, sea conditions typically limit shipments to 
between March and October.  It is planned that shipments will be resumed at the beginning of 
March 2012, when sea conditions again become conducive to barge ship loading. We have revised 
our projected shipping target for BNC, as announced on 27 May 2011, downwards by 50,000 
tonnes.  
  
The Berong mine is targeting production of 750,000 wmt of 1.8% nickel ore during 2012. To 
address the constraints of the limited shipping window, BNC has recently engaged an engineering  7 
 
company to look into the possibility of increasing the shipping period, the successful outcome of 
which would increase the capacity of the Berong port to 1,000,000 wmt per year. Among the range 
of possible measures being considered in the engineering study are the extension of the pier to 
accommodate bigger barges and the construction of a protective sea wall. 
 
The JORC-compliant resource for Berong was prepared by Snowden Mining Industry Consultants 
in June 2007. The total resource over the area drilled was stated at 9.92 million dry tonnes 
averaging 1.55 % Ni at a 1% cut-off grade. This resource included a subset of high grade resource 
of 4.88 million dry tonnes grading 1.88% Ni at a 1.5% cut-off grade. 
 
Currently, following the 2006 to 2008 direct shipping ore operation, the balance of this high grade 
resource is approximately 4.68 million dry tonnes (equivalent to approximately 6.98 million wet 
tonnes of ore) which will support a 9-year life of mine at the present rate of production of 750,000 
wmt of 1.8% nickel grade per annum. For every tonne of high-grade ore produced, approximately 
two tonnes of low grade ore with nickel content averaging 1.3% will be produced alongside. This 
will be stored at the mine site area in anticipation of future value added processing operations or 
for sale should favourable market conditions prevail. 
 
A Mining Project Feasibility Study for Ipilan, in which Toledo holds a 52% economic interest, was 
carried out in August 2010 and the relevant documents were compiled and submitted to the Mines 
and Geosciences Bureau for review and approval in November 2010. These included a 
Declaration of Project Mining Feasibility (DMF), Environmental Protection and Enhancement 
Program, Final Mine Rehabilitation and Decommissioning Plan, Social Development and 
Management Plan and a Health and Safety plan. Clearance of the all-important Strategic 
Environmental Plan (SEP) has been received from the Palawan Council for Sustainable 
Development (PCSD). 
 
A comprehensive sintering test has been undertaken on Ipilan’s ore, which has highlighted an 
opportunity to upgrade the ore, especially its limonitic part. This study has opened up the possibility 
of upgrading the iron and nickel content of Ipilan’s limonitic ore to make it more suitable for NPI 
blast furnace production. As Berong’s ore is similar to Ipilan’s, the results of the study could also be 
extended to Berong’s low grade limonitic ore. Capital and operating costs of the process are being 
evaluated. Mine experience gained in the development and operation of Berong will be applied to 
Ipilan once full permitting for mine development has been secured. 
 
Past works have confirmed the possibility of using all the available leaching technologies such as 
high pressure acid leaching (HPAL), atmospheric leaching (AL) and heap leaching (HL) for 
processing the ores of our deposits. We continue to assess the viability of these technologies in 
line with changing market conditions. We are also expanding our study on pyro-metallurgical 
technologies, such as looking into regional EAF production of ferronickel to evaluate which is the 
most viable and sustainable value added process for our ore.  
 
Berong continues to set the benchmark in best practice for its environmental work within the 
community. The mine rehabilitation area is now home to 4.5 hectares of rubber trees, which should 
provide the community with a sustainable source of income for years to come.  Alongside this, 
Toledo is dedicated to preserving its relationships with the local government units (LGUs) and 
schools in support of the National Greening Project to deliver our commitment to plant 50 new 
trees for every one tree cut.  In this regard, numerous species of value added trees, fruit trees and 
grasses continue to be planted. 
 
Funds from royalty payments made to the indigenous peoples continue to provide essential 
services to the community as well as establishing livelihood projects, which aim to empower the 
local community in generating its own income.  We are consistently investing more time and 
money into Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects than is our obligation, as mandated by 
law, and continue to strive to contribute positively to the local environment and communities 
amongst which we operate.   
  8 
 
Finally, it would not have been possible to resume operations at Berong at such short notice, or 
indeed at all, without the continued  support and hard work of all of our stakeholders including the 
local community, the LGUs, the Provincial and National Government and of course our staff and 
management both locally in the Philippines and in the UK. I would like to take this opportunity to 
congratulate them all and look ahead to continued success in the months and years to come. 
 
 
Victor Kolesnikov 
Chief Executive Officer 
24 August 2011 
 
 
 
Competent person statement  
The resource information in this statement is based on information reviewed by Mr Pierre Charlent, 
Chief Operating Officer of Toledo Mining Corporation, who is a Member of the Australasian 
Institute of Mining & Metallurgy. Mr Charlent has sufficient experience, which is relevant to the style 
of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activities undertaken, to qualify 
as a Competent Person as defined in the 2004 Edition of the “Australasian Code for Reporting of 
Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves” (the JORC Code). Mr Charlent 
consents to the inclusion in this statement of the matters based on this information, in the form and 
context in which they appear. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9 
 
In the community 
 
Toledo is very mindful of its duty to manage the environmental and social impact of its mining 
operations in a responsible and sensitive manner. All businesses are part of the wider society, and 
we believe they have both the responsibility and the capability to make a positive contribution to 
the communities in which they operate.  
 
Berong Nickel Corporation (BNC) recognises that the efficient operation of its business depends on 
the support of the local authorities and of the community as a whole, and seeks to provide 
significant and sustainable benefits through its presence. BNC’s Community Relations Officer, Joy 
Asignacion, ensures that everyone within the local community has a say in identifying and 
participating in projects backed by the company. There are currently two main focus areas for 
these projects – the Social Development and Management Programme and Community 
Programmes. 
 
BNC’s Social Development and Management Programme (SDMP) was launched in 2007, following 
extensive consultation with the community and local government to ensure that the programme 
would be fully aligned with their interests and aspirations. Since then, the SDMP has funded a 
number of very successful initiatives, including a scholarship scheme, a para-teachers programme, 
improved medical services, and a potable water system. 
 
The Community Programmes are wide ranging, and are selected and run with the active 
involvement of members of the community. Recent programmes include: 
• Livelihood 
Backyard gardening scheme; Tilapia Festival; manufacture of coco-based products; buying 
station for recyclable materials. 
• Education 
Read-along scheme; Berong Elementary Extension School; Science Month Celebration at 
Berong National High School.  
• Health  
Cooking contest; supplemental feeding; personal hygiene demonstration; community garden 
and beautification; “Dumi mo, Linis mo” (construction of comfort rooms); new mothers’ classes; 
school garden. 
 
Adopt-a-Mountain 
BNC devised its Adopt-a-Mountain programme as a proactive and imaginative response to a 
directive issued by the Environmental Management Bureau of the Philippine Department of 
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) relating to the rehabilitation by mining operators of 
denuded forests or mountains outside of currently approved mining areas. Along with restoration 
and conservation, the programme also aims to provide livelihoods to local people by planting tree 
species that can generate sustainable income in the future. 
 
The Barangay (district) of Berong is home to indigenous peoples called “Tagbanua” and migrants 
from the Visayan Islands. The Tagbanua are the aborigines of Quezon and have inhabited the land 
for centuries. Slash and burn farming (known locally as “kaingin”) and fishing are the main sources 
of livelihood of the nomadic Tagbanua, and this has had a detrimental effect on the environment 
within the district. 
 
BNC’s community relations team faced a real challenge in finding denuded areas to adopt, since 
most of them are still being used as “kaingin” by the Tagbanua who understandably do not want to 
leave unless they can sell the land at a very high price to BNC. However, following a series of 
negotiations conducted with the helpful guidance of the DENR, the first tree planting event under 
the Adopt-a-Mountain programme was able to take place on 11 September 2010. Hundreds of 
people from the community, including schoolchildren along with their teachers and mothers, 
government officials and local civic groups, converged and planted around 6,000 seedlings.  
  10 
 
The Adopt-a-Mountain initiative is not only helping to rehabilitate the local environment, but also to 
promote better understanding and relationships throughout the community. BNC will continue to 
fund and extend this initiative, and the Barangay of Berong has declared that 11 September will 
from now on be designated Adopt-a-Mountain Day.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
