 page 5
I should like to begin my message with a tribute to our previous chairman, Reg Eccles who guided 
our Company over the past five years with energy and dedication in pursuit of building Toledo’s mining
investments into significant nickel businesses in the Philippines. Reg steered the Company through
some difficult and testing times and it is now our keen objective to build on the experience of those
challenging years and to advance the Company to a point where it can continue to benefit the
communities of the Philippines in which it operates, while generating rewards for its shareholders. 
The board of directors joins me in thanking Reg for his invaluable contribution and we wish him well 
in his future endeavours.
The vision for Toledo remains the same and will be pursued with new vigour. We shall continue, along
with our partners, to make this vision a reality through the development of our significant resources
and by pursuing the longer term objective of utilising leaching technologies to produce a value-added
final product. Arrangements are in hand to conduct technical and environmental studies into the
feasibility of employing this technology. 
Victor Kolesnikov was appointed CEO in March 2011 and under his stewardship the Berong mine 
has been brought back into production and we have focused on mining higher grade nickel ore as this
commands a significant premium. There have been a total of 16 shipments of ore to China over the
past 14 months generating revenue to Berong Nickel Corporation (BNC) of over US$33 million 
(£21 million) and yielding approximately 9,400 tonnes of contained nickel. 
These encouraging results are in spite of a moratorium that was placed on the granting of all types of
mining licences and permits pending the publication of a new presidential Executive Order governing
the current mining laws in the Philippines. A delay in the granting of an extension to the tree cutting
permit necessitated a remodelling of the mining plan in order that Berong could continue to service 
its Chinese customers and this was achieved quickly and competently by Victor and his team. 
The new Executive Order has now been published and is a positive step for responsible mining and
particularly important for decisions on investments in the Philippines. Details of how the new rules 
and regulations are to be implemented are expected to be released in two months’ time. Toledo, along
with its partners, is monitoring all developments associated with the new Order and is in a position 
to adjust to the new environment and thus minimise any impact on its operations.
On behalf of the Board, I should like to extend my thanks to all our shareholders for their loyal 
and enduring support. In May 2012, Toledo’s previously largest shareholder, ENK plc (ENK) sold its
remaining 5.1% stake in the Company to World Fund. At the same time ENK announced its intention
to sell its 18.7% holding in BNC. This represented a significant opportunity for Toledo to increase 
its direct interest in its principal investment and the Board has exercised the Company’s pre-emption
right over this holding.
I should also like to take this opportunity on behalf of my fellow directors to thank all our staff both 
in the Philippines and in London for all their hard work and commitment over the past year. 
The next twelve months will continue to be challenging, not least because of the difficulties being
endured by many of the world’s major economies. However, China continues to be an engine of growth
with strong demand for stainless steel and by taking advantage of this situation, we are cushioned to
some degree from the worst aspects of the continuing downturn. 
I look to all our stakeholders for their steady support and assistance in continuing to build a mutually 
rewarding business. 
Constantine Thanassoulas
Chairman
24 August 2012
Letter to shareholders
Constantine
Thanassoulas
