 3 
 
 Chairman’s statement 
 
 
In the 18 months since the beginning of Toledo’s 2011 financial year, our management has worked 
tirelessly to extract greater value from our nickel investments located in the Philippines. 
 
It was very pleasing therefore to be able to announce in April that sales contracts had been 
secured to finance the reopening of the Berong mine, which duly occurred in May. 
 
The intention is now to produce 450,000 wet metric tonnes (wmt) of nickel ore this calendar year 
rising to 750,000 wmt annually thereafter. The expected net revenue generated from ore sales will 
be more than sufficient at current nickel prices for the joint owners of Berong to fund an exploration 
programme of the area around Berong and undertake engineering studies to improve ship loading 
capability and determine the optimal technology for local processing of ore. 
 
At the Ipilan project, on the eastern and opposite side of Palawan Island to Berong, significant 
progress has been made towards being able to mine the deposit. Last December, we announced 
that statutory licencing obligations had been progressed to the point where only a mine feasibility 
plan and related documents required official sign off before mining operations could begin. The 
feasibility plan has been submitted to the Minerals and Geosciences Bureau, and it is understood 
that their initial review has drawn no negative feedback. 
 
At the beginning of our financial year, we had just commenced an exploration programme on the 
Moorsom prospect, lying within a 14 kilometre radius of the Berong mine. The stated aim was to 
prove up sufficient ore capable of supporting a processing operation producing 20,000 tonnes per 
annum of contained nickel. 
 
Although the initial results were encouraging, the programme was curtailed when it became 
apparent that whilst the requisite tonnage undoubtedly exists, the nickel grade is less than hoped. 
In-house analysis of the assay data indicates a total resource of 43 million tonnes grading just over 
0.8% nickel using a 0% cut-off grade. Further work is required to determine whether any part of 
this huge resource has the potential of commercial development. 
 
As mentioned in my half yearly statement, the area long believed to offer significant exploration 
potential is the coastal portion of the Long Point prospect, located some 20 kilometres to the north 
east of the Berong mine. This area, which lies within an Environmental Critical Area Network 
(ECAN), is presently off limits to exploration. However, we remain hopeful that with the support of 
the local council, which has petitioned for the ECAN map to be redrawn, we will be granted 
permission to explore  
 
Palawan is a particularly environmentally sensitive island within which to operate. Often described 
as the Philippines last ecological frontier it has been accorded special status under the 
Constitution. It is not surprising therefore that obtaining permits to explore and mine on Palawan 
requires extensive review and cooperation with local authorities. Management of both Berong and 
Ipilan has ensured that very careful attention to community, social and environmental issues has 
enabled the restart of the Berong mine and successful ratification of the environmental plans for 
the development of Ipilan. 
 
More detailed operational information on both Berong and Ipilan is contained in the Chief 
Executive’s review. 
 
For the financial year to 31 March 2011 Toledo reported a pre-tax loss of £4.4 million as compared 
to a loss of £2.0 million in the 2010 financial year. Of the £2.4 million increase in pre-tax losses, 
£1.6 million is due to non-cash provisions with respect to the early settlement by Atlas 
Consolidated Mining and Development Corporation (Atlas) of a loan from Toledo to Atlas, a partner 
in Berong, and a reduction in the carrying value of our investment in Ipilan. A further £0.21 million 
was due to foreign exchange losses on US$ denominated loans to Philippine partners. Associated  4 
 
company losses rose by £0.36 million and administrative expenses were £0.46 million higher, 
principally as a result of negotiations with the Jinchuan Group during the financial year. 
 
With no income during 2010 and for most of this year, Toledo has relied on the loyal support of 
shareholders. Last December, the company placed 8.307 million shares to raise £1.9 million net of 
expenses. As a result of the issue, Toledo now has 49,845,333 fully paid ordinary shares in issue 
of which Daintree Limited (whose major shareholder, Jason Cheng, sits on the Toledo board) holds 
22% and Fevamotinico SARL (a company related to Kostyantin Zhevago) holds 20%. The issue 
also saw Mr. Jason Cropper increase his equity holding to 6.7%, since when, through on market 
purchases, his holding has risen to 16%. Meanwhile, Toledo’s once most significant shareholder, 
European Nickel plc, now has just a little over 5% equity holding, although it still retains its 18.7% 
voting interest in Berong Nickel Corporation. 
 
Presently financial matters look a lot better for both Toledo and its shareholders. The Berong mine 
should now be self-financing for the foreseeable future. Whilst Toledo still has a commitment to 
fund (on a recoverable basis) Ipilan up to mine development, your company is well funded as a 
result of the early settlement of the Atlas loan referred to earlier and which will add US$4.5 million 
to Toledo’s cash holdings.   
 
It is quite natural that strong commodity prices draws the attention of mineral rich countries to the 
wealth beneath their feet and heightens the debate as to how best these resources be developed 
for the benefit of the country concerned.  
 
The Philippines, with its exceptional endowment of mineral resources, is no exception to such 
debate, the current focus being on the pros and cons of limiting ore exports in preference to 
domestic processing and on whether to tighten or relax the legislation limiting foreign ownership of 
mineral properties. Toledo welcomes clarification and resolution on both these issues. 
 
Meanwhile, your company considers it wise to recognise Philippine nationals’ desire to process 
minerals within the country and, accordingly, to plan for a more restrictive environment on ore 
exports. We do not see such an outcome as necessarily financially damaging for Toledo. Equally, 
we believe that any change to the legislation on foreign ownership will recognise the important 
contribution foreign investment makes to the Philippine economy. 
 
As Toledo became more confident that developments in the nickel market and in particular the 
explosive growth in demand for nickel ore, primarily from China but also elsewhere, would support 
a reopening of the Berong mine and accelerate value added ambitions, we moved to strengthen 
our management capabilities.  
 
In January 2011, we welcomed Victor Kolesnikov to the Toledo board. In March we appointed him 
Chief Executive Officer. Victor is a metallurgist with over 22 years’ experience in mining and sales 
in the non-ferrous metals industry, including eight years with Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest 
nickel producer. In the short time since his appointment as CEO, Victor has made a very positive 
impact on our business including overseeing the commencement of operations at Berong. 
 
In May 2011, we appointed Pierre Charlent, Chief Operating Officer based in the Philippines. 
Pierre replaces Ken Stein, who returned to Australia for personal reasons. As a geologist and 
mining engineer, Pierre not only complements Victor’s metallurgical expertise, but also comes to 
Toledo with over 25 years’ experience in the mining industry, including 14 years in nickel laterite 
exploration, mining and development in New Caledonia. 
 
We are very fortunate to have been able to recruit two such high calibre and experienced 
individuals. 
 
With the commitment of the staff of the Manila-based management company of Berong and Ipilan 
and the employees at the respective sites, we have significantly advanced the reactivation of 
Berong and made substantial progress in the permitting at Ipilan. The Toledo board owes all of 
them a huge debt of gratitude.  5 
 
 
I would also like to thank Felix Pole who stood down from the Toledo board at the end of June. 
Felix was my companion in guiding Toledo through some very challenging times. Fortunately, 
although Felix resigned from the board because of the heavy demands of his business interests, 
he remains available should we need to tap his wise counsel. 
 
Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to our shareholders for their continued support. We have 
made much positive progress this year and I look forward to updating you as we continue to realise 
further goals over the coming year. 
 
 
Reginald Eccles 
Chairman 
24 August 2011 
