 Chief executive Officer’s
statement
The Company is setting 
new standards in 
responsible mining in  
the Philippines and, 
pleasingly, is being 
recognised as a role 
model for other mining 
operations.
place included the coastal stockpile and 
drying areas, the off-shore ship anchorage 
area and the 50 kilometre approach 
channel lined with eight navigational 
buoys, and mine site environmental 
structures.
For the coming year, permanent facilities 
to be constructed include heavy 
equipment workshops, accommodation 
facilities, offices, assay laboratory, and 
the Dangla road. Still under evaluation are 
the trestle/pylon conveyor and ship 
loader, and development of Dangla Bay 
as an additional stockpile area and barge 
loading facility.
Operationally, mining activities have been 
concentrated on the trial metallurgical 
sample areas defined to best test the 
various ore types in customers’ plants. 
Whilst these areas were not the highest 
grade areas, the mining practices and 
grade sampling procedures were 
established and tested. Ore dilution is 
less than 10% of the grade, and is 
expected to decrease to less than 3% 
through learning and better operator 
training. This is not unexpected 
considering much of the operation is 
contractor based.
The Company is setting new standards in 
responsible mining in the Philippines and, 
pleasingly, is being recognised as a role 
model for other mining operations. 
Berong Nickel Corporation takes its 
environmental/safety/health and social 
licence very seriously. The Company is 
developing the systems for international 
certification in Environmental Management 
Systems ISO 14001 and Occupational 
Health and Safety Systems ISO 18001. 
An MOU was signed with the local 
indigenous peoples on how the mandated 
1% gross royalty is to be spent for the 
benefit of current and future generations. 
Similarly, a Social Development and 
Management Plan is being developed 
with spending directed at priority 
community and livelihood projects. The 
Company is also an active member of the 
Kabuhayan, Kaunlaran, Kalikasan, Inc 
which acts as an advocacy group on 
responsible mining on Palawan, and 
offers benefits to those people not directly 
impacted by mining operations.
The primary markets for Berong laterite 
nickel ore include Japan, China, Europe 
and Australia. With historically high nickel 
prices reflecting a shortage of primary 
nickel, the Chinese market has developed 
exponentially though the innovative use of 
blast furnace technology to produce a 
nickel pig iron for the stainless steel sector. 
Many smaller steel plants in China have 
converted to nickel pig iron production 
and this has led to the rapid increase in 
demand for laterite nickel ore. Most 
shipments to date from Berong have been 
sold to China on a spot basis, targeting the 
blast furnace producers and the electric 
arc furnace producers. Longer term 
contracts will be negotiated once 
operations stabilise. Value added 
processing within the Philippines is seen 
as a critical component in leveraging off 
the large pre-JORC
1
 resource of over 350 
million tonnes of nickel laterite managed 
by the Company on Palawan. Samples of 
the various ore types have been taken and 
will be tested in the laboratory to assess 
the most viable processing options. The 
processing options to be assessed include 
leaching (atmospheric and high 
temperature), the Chinese blast furnace 
process, and ferro-nickel production. 
Exploration and permitting activities in 
the tenement areas adjacent to the 
Berong project, and at the Celestial/Ipilan 
project area, continued in parallel with 
development activities. The detailed work 
programme for the Celestial/Ipilan project 
was scoped with test pitting and drilling 
commencing in May 2007. 
As at the time of writing this review, total 
shipments from Berong amount to 
approximately 452,595 tonnes at an 
average grade of 1.53% Ni. The operation 
is currently running at an annualised rate 
of approximately 1 million tonnes, and is 
well on the way to the target of 1.5 million 
tonnes planned for year 2008. 
We look forward to another equally 
successful year ahead.
g eorge Bujtor
26 September 2007
The key achievement in the year under 
review was the successful development 
and bringing into production of the 
Berong Nickel project. Mining of laterite 
nickel ore for trial metallurgical samples 
commenced in November 2006 and, 
significantly, less than one year after the 
start of test pitting and drilling of the ore 
body within the 288 hectare MPSA area. 
The first metallurgical sample was 
shipped out in late January 2007 as a 
partial shipment of 18,819 tonnes, with 
the first full shipment of 51,103 tonnes in 
late February 2007. Laterite ore shipped 
to the end of March 2007 amounted to 
approximately 121,390 tonnes at an 
average grade of 1.53% Ni.
Testing and evaluation of the laterite nickel 
ore body was undertaken using test 
pitting, diamond drilling and industry 
standard software packages. 
Approximately 10,529 metres of test pitting 
and 7,627 metres of diamond drilling was 
completed. Normal check assaying and 
duplicate samples were taken to ensure 
the statistical accuracy of the results. 
Snowden Mining Industry Consultants 
estimated a JORC compliant ore resource 
of 9.92 million tonnes at a 1.55% Ni grade 
using a 1% Ni cut-off grade.
The overriding philosophy in the 
development of the project was “speed 
into production” to capture the benefits of 
the historically high nickel prices. To this 
extent, many of the facilities put into place 
were of a temporary nature and included 
the barge causeway, the Barangay–Sorex 
road linking the mine to the coastal 
facilities, and the accommodation 
facilities. Permanent facilities put into 
Toledo Mining Corporation Plc
Annual Report 2007 05
