 Chairman’s
statement
the Celestial/Ipilan orebody, on the 
eastern side, is largely limonite. This 
allows us to consider all of the available 
options for value added processing on 
site. SNC Lavalin has been appointed to 
work with us to evaluate these options. 
 
With the experience the Company is 
gaining in China in the pig nickel industry, 
we are looking closely at participating 
with some of our customers in further 
developing their pig nickel businesses. 
We feel that this will give us valuable 
experience to build similar facilities in the 
Philippines. We have recently appointed 
CIBC World Markets to assist us evaluate 
future financing options and to provide 
other advisory and banking services.
We have now signed our first long-term 
supply agreement with Queensland 
Nickel Pty Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary 
of BHP Billiton, for up to 500,000 tonnes 
of ore per annum which is another 
milestone for the Company. However, 
demand for similar grade nickel ore 
remains very strong from Chinese 
customers and we do see our developing 
relationships here as also very important. 
We expect that until we have developed 
our own value added processing on site, 
the majority of our exports will be to 
Chinese customers. Long-term contracts 
with a number of these existing customers 
are being negotiated.
For calendar 2007 we anticipate 
producing 850,000 tonnes of ore and, 
subject to the vagaries of the weather 
and availability of vessels, shipping 
700,000 tonnes. Annualised production 
is now running in excess of 1 million 
tonnes with a target of 1.5 million tonnes 
for calendar 2008.
 
Demand for nickel remains strong world-
wide and particularly from China and 
India, with stainless steel production 
being the major driver. Most analysts see 
the supply-demand gap increasing in the 
future with limited supply and increasing 
demand. Whilst the Company’s view is 
one of cautious optimism, given the grade 
of our orebodies and their size, we expect 
to be able to weather any downturns, 
whilst being in a position to reap 
considerable rewards during positive 
market conditions.
In March 2007, I was very pleased to 
welcome Reg Eccles as an independent 
Non-Executive Director. Mr Eccles has 
extensive experience in the mining 
industry, specialising in the areas of 
planning, strategy and finance. He has 
worked for major international mining 
houses (Anglo American Corporation and 
Consolidated Goldfields plc), co-founded 
a successful minerals consultancy and 
publishing business and served as Head 
of Global Mining Equities for both SBC 
Warburg (now UBS) and ABN Amro.
 
During the year Merfyn Roberts resigned 
as a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company due to other work commitments. 
I would like to express my heartfelt thanks 
to Mr Roberts for his significant 
contribution to the Company.
Chris Kyriakou
26 September 2007
Demand for nickel 
remains strong 
worldwide, particularly 
from China and India, 
with stainless steel 
production being  
the major driver.
In the year under review, Toledo Mining 
Corporation’s activities continued to be 
focused on the development and 
evaluation of several large laterite nickel 
orebodies on Palawan Island in the 
Philippines.
Without doubt the most exciting time for 
a developing mining company is when it 
commences production and achieves 
positive cash flow. In January 2007 we 
delivered our first shipment of laterite ore 
from our Berong Deposit, a milestone for 
the Company. Other shipments followed, 
all from the Berong orebody and almost 
all has been shipped to China.
What makes this a particularly significant 
achievement is that it was done in less 
than three years from the Company’s 
formation, an outstanding achievement 
and one of which we are extremely proud. 
The Company’s management team, led 
by CEO George Bujtor, and workforce, 
must indeed be congratulated for this 
achievement.
 
Our orebodies are, in total, amongst the 
largest in the world, with a pre-JORC
1
 
resource of over 350 million tonnes of 
1.3% Ni and 0.1% Co, containing about 
4.5 million tonnes of Ni, with an in-situ 
value in excess of US$127 billion at the 
current price of nickel. Given the relatively 
high grade of the deposits compared to 
most other nickel laterite ore bodies 
around the world, the Philippines pro-
mining attitude and the sheer size of the 
orebodies, it is reasonable to expect that 
they will be developed well ahead of most 
others. We also have the advantage that 
the Berong orebodies on the western 
side of Palawan are largely saprolite and 
Toledo Mining Corporation Plc
Annual Report 2007 04
