 REVIEW 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
6
A key component of this is new product development
in order to maintain our market leadership. 
In 2005, Fluid Power opened a Customer Solutions
Centre in Denver, Colorado, in part to support its
leadership position in the port-to-port environment 
in industrial machinery and equipment. Its patented
Quick-Lok™ product has already captured a leading
market position in leak-free applications.
In addition to Quick-Lok™, other innovations 
in 2005 included hurricane-resistant louvers and 
windows in our Building Products group and several
new power transmission innovations in our 
Industrial & Automotive group, such as variable 
vane transmission pumps, six-speed carrier 
systems and advanced drive belt technology.
GLOBAL MARKET EXPANSION
The Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) of China and
India are expected to grow 9.0 per cent and 6.8 per
cent, respectively, in 2006. To further service the
domestic industrial and automotive markets of these
countries we opened two new facilities in China in
2005, increasing our total facilities there to seven, and 
one new facility in India, increasing our total facilities
there to four. Geographic expansion in high growth
markets, such as India and China, either through
greenﬁeld development or through value-enhancing
bolt-on acquisitions will remain a key focus for 
2006 and beyond.
STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS
Since December 2004, we have added more than 
$250 million (c. £140 million) in annualised revenue
through acquisitions of industrial and building products
businesses. Each of these businesses is meeting or
exceeding the ﬁnancial performance criteria used in
the business plans to justify their acquisition. We have
identiﬁed further acquisition opportunities and hope
that we can achieve our stated annual target of $300-
$500 million (c. £160-£270 million) of additional
revenues through acquisitions in 2006.
KEY GROWTH AREAS
Power Transmission remains a growth area as industrial
and automotive original equipment manufacturers
(“OEMs”) look for innovative new products and the
trend continues in automotive OEM outsourcing.
Governments, OEMs and end-users are increasingly
focused on products that provide fuel economy and
reduced emissions. With operationally efﬁcient
products such as our stop-start system, variable vane
pumps and six-speed carrier systems we are ideally
placed to take advantage of this trend.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2005
In 2005, we increased revenue and proﬁts,
notwithstanding difﬁcult end-market conditions,
through our managers’ focus on operational excellence.
This included lean manufacturing and new product 
and process innovation, as well as the successful
integration of businesses acquired during the year.
Lean manufacturing initiatives across our businesses
resulted in annual lean savings continuing to run in
excess of £25.0 million, in addition to increasing 
both available ﬂoor space and machine capacity.
Our managers will continue to focus on operational
excellence with a view to achieving growth in sales,
operating margins and returns in excess of our cost 
of capital in the years ahead.
NEW PRODUCTS
Strategically our primary objective is the creation 
of shareholder value through the development 
of our businesses. 
“Our businesses are focused on delivering dynamic growth
in value through new products, global market expansion
and strategic acquisitions”
JAMES NICOL
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
