 REVIEW 2005
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
4
in their performance. Our people are committed 
and enthusiastic. Although our operations are
geographically diverse and many functions are
decentralised, we take great pride in teamwork and
sharing best practice across businesses and regions. 
Part of Tomkins’ strength is its global reach, and 
the product and market diversity of its businesses. 
We manufacture a variety of products, from
synchronous belts for engines to whirlpool baths 
and the key to our progress is that these diverse
businesses are bound together by a common factor 
– manufacturing excellence. Our geographic spread
across 21 countries together with the range of 
end-markets we serve make us not dependent 
on speciﬁc industries or regions. 
RESULTS
In 2005, revenue was up by 7.0 per cent at £3,182.4
million (2004: £2,974.1 million) and proﬁt from
operations (before restructuring initiatives) rose by
1.4 per cent to £308.5 million (2004: £304.3 million).
Proﬁt from operations at £296.7 million (2004: £286.3
million) rose by 3.6 per cent. Fully diluted earnings 
per share were 23.79 pence (2004: 22.81 pence). 
Cash ﬂow for the year was positive after interest, 
tax and dividends, despite a signiﬁcant contribution 
to the Gates pension fund.
DIVIDEND
The Board has recommended a ﬁnal dividend of 
8.16 pence per ordinary share which, together with
the interim dividend of 5.07 pence per ordinary share
paid on 14 November 2005, brings the total dividend
for the year to 13.23 pence per ordinary share, 
an increase of 5.0 per cent. The ﬁnal dividend, 
if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will 
be paid on 31 May 2006 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 21 April 2006. 
We continue to extol the importance of cash ﬂow
generation to our business managers, as this supports
our progressive dividend policy. 
The Board has decided to offer again the Dividend
Reinvestment Plan in respect of this ﬁnal dividend.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We aim for the highest standards of governance and
transparency throughout the businesses and in all 
our market operations. Although the Operating 
and Financial Review (Reporting Statement 1) is not
mandatory, we used this as a guide, since it will help 
our shareholders to better assess our strategy and goals.
Over the course of 2005, we made further progress
in preparing for compliance with Section 404 of the
We continued to make good progress in what was 
a challenging year for Tomkins. 
We experienced weaker automotive production
volumes in North America and Europe, the delay in 
the implementation of the Transportation Recall,
Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation
(“TREAD”) Act, the continuing softness of the 
non-residential construction market for most of 
the year and the effect of two severe hurricanes in 
the southern United States. Despite these difﬁcult 
end-markets, the Group achieved good growth and
operating proﬁt margins. This reﬂects the ongoing
commitment of our executive management team
to ﬁnd pragmatic solutions to improve performance.
OUR CULTURE AND OUR COMPANY
The introduction of our annual bonus incentive plan 
in 2003 has been a great motivator for our managers
and has contributed to a more entrepreneurial focus 
“During 2005, management dealt efﬁciently with
challenging conditions and produced good results”
DAVID NEWLANDS
CHAIRMAN TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
REVIEW 2005
5
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we will implement
fully in the current ﬁnancial year. 
As shareholders will be aware, Tomkins reports 
to the markets on a quarterly basis. Our quarterly 
press releases are available on our website
(www.tomkins.co.uk) and hard copies can be
requested from ir@tomkins.co.uk. As we are
committed to keeping our corporate costs low, 
we have decided in future, in common with a 
number of large public companies, to place an
advertisement in the national press and no longer
produce a printed interim report.
THE BOARD
After ﬁve years with Tomkins, we are sad to be losing
Ken Minton and Norman Broadhurst, who will be
retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the
Company’s Annual General Meeting on 22 May 2006.
Following the substantial reduction in the Gates
family’s interests in the Company, Marshall Wallach
has decided to step down from the Board with effect
from 1 May 2006. On behalf of the Board and
everyone who had the pleasure of working with them,
I would like to thank all three for their outstanding
contribution to the Board and our Company and 
wish them well for the future.
I am pleased to welcome to the Board Richard
Gillingwater, Head of the UK Government’s
Shareholder Executive, Struan Robertson, formerly
Chief Executive at Wates Group, and David Richardson,
formerly Group Finance Director at Whitbread PLC, 
who have joined the Tomkins Board as non-executive
Directors. They bring to Tomkins broad and invaluable
experience that will assist the Board in its work and we
are looking forward to working with them.
EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS AND INVESTORS
On behalf of the Board, I should like to thank all of our
employees for their commitment during the past year.
With the support not only of our employees but also
our customers, suppliers and business partners, we can
continue on our path of sustained proﬁtable growth. 
I would also like to thank our investors for their
continuing support of Tomkins. 
VALUE CREATION
Our strategy remains focused on creating shareholder
value through organic growth, geographic expansion
and strategic acquisitions. We apply disciplined criteria 
to all potential acquisitions and capital investments 
to ensure that they are expected to enhance value. 
A chart seen below shows the Total Shareholder 
Return in the Company’s shares for each of the 
past ﬁve years ended 31 December, measured 
against the performance of the FTSE Engineering 
and Machinery Index.
OUTLOOK
During 2005, management dealt efﬁciently with
challenging conditions and produced good results.
Overall, the outlook for our markets in 2006 
remains positive. By adhering to our strategy of
achieving organic growth, geographic expansion 
into higher growth markets and the acquisition 
of value enhancing businesses, our strong
management team should again deliver value 
for Tomkins shareholders in 2006.
DAVID NEWLANDS
CHAIRMAN
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE
2005 2004
+5.0%
pence
0 4 8 12 16 20
05 13.23
04
05
12.60
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Dec 05 Dec 04 Dec 03 Dec 02 Dec 01 Dec 00
Tomkins FTSE Engineering & Machinery
