 T opps Tiles Plc
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008
6
We have maintained our market leading position and expect to capitalise on this during
the coming year. We will achieve this by continuing to focus on excellent customer
service, outstanding value ranges and an anticipated contraction in the competition. 
We have delivered a credible performance and anticipate that our resilient business 
model will help us to create an even stronger business.
UK store development and expansion
We are pleased to have achieved our store opening target with a net 19 new stores
opened in the period. This now gives us an overall total of 320 trading outlets throughout
the UK. For the coming year we will focus the majority of our attention on improvements
to our existing estate. In the current economic climate we believe that a more cautious
approach to expansion is appropriate. We anticipate that an easing of pressures in the
property market should create opportunities for us to open a small number of new stores
in strong trading locations.
T opps Tiles
We have opened a net 17 new stores and now have a total of 263 T opps outlets. 
This includes 24 new openings offset by two closures, three relocations and two 
rebrands to Tile Clearing House (TCH).  
Alongside our traditional retail channel we have, this year, launched our first online business.
This offers a wide selection of our most popular ranges as well as some additional
complementary products not found in our stores. These include bathrooms accessories
and heated towel radiators. We have developed the online offer during the year and whilst
this element of the business is still in its infancy we look forward to it increasing sales as it
grows in popularity. Our online offer can be found at www.toppstiles.co.uk.
Tile Clearing House
Tile Clearing House remains focused on trade customers and jobbing builders, operating
a “cash and carry” type format. We have opened a net two new stores under the 
Tile Clearing House brand and now have a total of 57 outlets.
Holland
In Holland we have opened a further net two stores during the year taking the total to 22.
This consisted of three new openings and one closure due to a relocation. The business 
has had to contend with a difficult trading environment and a number of other issues.
Against this backdrop we have seen a decline in like-for-like revenues and the business
has generated a loss for the year. 
We have also conducted a review of the goodwill that arose on acquisition of the Dutch
business and decided that against the context of the current year’ s results and a more
cautious outlook for the future it is appropriate to impair the goodwill and write it down 
by £1.2 million to £nil in the current year. 
Chief Executive’ s statement
We will continue to maintain our focus on tight cost
control and prudent management of the business at
the same time as delivering the service element that
our customers expect. We intend to capitalise on 
our market leading position and believe that we will
emerge from the current economic situation a stronger
business and benefit significantly when consumer
confidence returns.
2008
34.6
2007
44.3
2006
38.8
2005
36.8
2004
32.5
Operating profit (£m)
£34. 6m
Operating profit (2007: £44.34m) 
Find out more...
For more information, please visit:
www.toppstiles.co.uk T opps Tiles Plc
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008
7
Whilst we operate a tight cost base which is appropriate for a small business, the key
issues which we are tackling are store sales density and gross profit margins. We have 
a new management team in place with a very clear agenda. They will be focused on
driving sales and improving margins by upweighting the mix of tile sales. The year ahead
is likely to be one of continued, measured progress with less focus on expansion than 
we have seen previously.
Marketing, advertising and sponsorship
Over the last year we ran both national and regional marketing and advertising
campaigns. These included the launch of a new TV advertising campaign on ITV . 
The campaign featured works of art created entirely from our tiles and wooden flooring,
with the adverts appearing on ITV three times a day straight after the national news. 
This campaign served us well through the year and we have achieved our goal of
continuing to build consumer awareness of the brand. During the year ahead we 
expect to focus on targeted regional and local marketing where the business requires it.
T opps Tiles is Britain's biggest supporter of community youth football and we currently
sponsor over 200 local teams nationwide. 
Staff development and customer service
A core part of our strategy is to deliver outstanding customer service. In order to provide
this we place the highest importance on the development of our staff to deliver an
excellent standard of service. We are rigorous in our recruitment and retention of capable,
ambitious people and are committed to the development and career progression of our
employees. We have a sophisticated in-store e-learning training system and additionally
we incentivise our staff with competitive employee benefit packages. 
We continue to differentiate our business from the competition in a number of ways. 
All of our stores carry a wide range and supply of stock, we offer a loan-a-tile service, a
free “How to” DVD, a tile cutting service and a buy-back service allowing customers to
“sell back” undamaged tiles within 45 days of purchase. In addition, we have teamed 
up with traders local to each of our stores to provide customers with a T opps approved
tile installation service. These services coupled with friendly and knowledgeable staff
offering expert technical advice led to 98.2% of customers surveyed expressing levels 
of satisfaction as “good to excellent” (2007: 97.6%).
Corporate responsibility
The management team at T opps Tiles is committed to conducting the Company’ s
business in a socially responsible manner, taking into consideration social, environmental
and ethical matters, whilst at the same time ensuring the Company achieves its
objectives. Our policy is published on our website at www.toppstiles.co.uk and 
more detail on our achievements can be found in this report.
T opps Tiles is pleased to be a constituent member of the FTSE4Good UK Index.
Our website was a Hitwise T op 10 
Award winner for the quarter ending 
July - September 2008.
2008
11.16
2007
14.94
2006
13.19
2005
12.81
2004
9.63
Adjusted basic earnings per share (p)
11 .1 6p
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
(2007: 14.94p)  T opps Tiles Plc
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008
8
 The market
T opps continues to be the leading tile retailer in the UK with a market share in excess 
of 22%. 
As consumers preferences continue to converge with European tastes the relatively 
low consumption of tiles per head in the UK compared with the rest of Europe 
(roughly one-third of Northern Europe, source: MBD) provides significant opportunities.
Consumers are continuing to refurbish the traditional tiling areas such as kitchens,
bathrooms and conservatories and are also increasingly extending into general 
living areas, helped by the broad range of under flooring heating products now 
commonly available.
During the year we have also seen a reduction in customer choice as some consolidation
in the retail market has taken place, particularly with smaller regional tile businesses.
Worldwide consumption for tiles, in particular in the more developed tile markets is 
likely to continue to weaken in the short term. This has begun to present some buying
opportunities, with regard to both price and terms. With a dedicated tile distribution
warehouse, T opps is well positioned to take advantage of these opportunities.
Current trading and outlook
In the seven weeks of the new financial period Group overall revenue decreased by
13.5% and like-for-like sales decreased by 18.3%.
At the half year we highlighted that the key driver of risk to the business was the general
economic climate and since then the economy has continued to weaken. The business 
is well equipped to deal with the current economic cycle and we have made good
progress in tightening our cost base for the coming year, focusing our attention on cash
management and improving our financial flexibility by renegotiating our banking facilities.
We will continue to maintain our focus on tight cost control and prudent management 
of the business at the same time as delivering the service element that our customers
expect. We intend to capitalise on our market leading position and believe that we will
emerge from the current economic situation a stronger business and benefit significantly
when consumer confidence returns.
Matthew Williams
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’ s statement (continued)
22%+
Group share of the UK tile market 
(2007: 22%+) 
342
T otal number of stores trading 
across the Group (2007: 321)  T opps Tiles Plc
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008
9
The Company’s staff are fundamental to
the ongoing success of the business.
Their ability to deliver exceptional
customer service will continue to be a key
differentiator for us in the coming year.
Alongside our traditional retail channel this
year we launched our first online business
which offers a wide selection of our most
popular ranges including some additional
complementary products.
Visit our website at www.toppstiles.co.uk
for full details.
Topps stores are purposely located 
in highly visible, low rental locations, 
on or close to busy roads and always
with parking facilities.
The business is well equipped to deal with the current
economic cycle and we have made good progress in
tightening our cost base for the coming year , focusing
our attention on cash management and improving our
financial flexibility by renegotiating our banking facilities.
