 Chief Executive’s statement
Topps Tiles continues to be the market leader in its sector 
with a resilient business model. We have maintained our 
focus on prudent management of costs whilst at the same 
time ensuring that we continue to deliver outstanding 
customer service and excellent value ranges, and we 
believe that our business will emerge stronger as consumer 
confidence returns.
UK store development and expansion
Our expansion strategy has been realigned to take 
account of the changes in the economic environment 
and we have adopted a more cautious approach to our 
store opening programme. During the period we have 
opened four new stores and closed 15 stores, resulting in a 
net decline of 11 stores. The Group is now trading from a 
total of 309 outlets throughout the UK. For the coming year 
we will focus the majority of our attention on improvements 
to our existing estate and we will continue to monitor the 
market for new store opportunities in prime locations. 
Topps Tiles
We have opened a net two new stores and now have a  
total of 265 Topps outlets. This includes four new openings  
and one rebrand from Tile Clearing House (TCH), offset by  
three closures.
Our e-tailing business has completed its first full year of 
trading, offering a selection of our most popular ranges 
and additional complementary products. Whilst we are still 
relatively early in the development of the internet as a new 
channel to market we are pleased with progress to date 
and this part of the business now represents a similar level 
of turnover to that which a good store would generate. 
Our online offer can be found at www.toppstiles.co.uk.
Tile Clearing House
Tile Clearing House remains focused on trade customers 
and jobbing builders, operating a “cash and carry” type 
format. We have closed a net 13 stores during the period 
and now have a total of 44 TCH outlets. 
Holland
Our business in Holland has faced increasing challenges 
as financial performance has declined, in part driven by 
the difficult economic climate. We have closed 10 stores 
as a result of poor performance and/or lease expiry and 
we have not opened any new stores. We are now trading 
from 12 stores and have no plans to expand the business 
further whilst current conditions prevail. During the period 
we have seen a decline in like-for-like revenues of 22.1% 
(2008: –2.9%) and we have recognised a loss of £4.9 million 
(2008: loss of £0.8 million). This loss includes approximately 
£3.7 million of exceptional costs including a £2.0 million 
charge for impairment of plant, property and equipment 
and restructuring costs of £1.7 million associated with the 
10 store closures. We do not believe the business will return 
to profit in the short term and will continue to review the 
business closely.
Marketing, advertising and sponsorship
During the financial period we have significantly reduced 
our marketing spend and have concentrated on regional 
marketing rather than the national advertising campaigns 
that we have conducted in previous years.
Our commitment to our local communities remains strong 
as we maintain our aim to make positive contributions to 
those communities served by our stores. Being a “good 
neighbour” is Topps’ priority and our current initiatives 
include nationwide youth football sponsorship, our work  
for the charity, Help for Heroes, and our support for mosaic 
art in schools and community groups countrywide.
Staff development and customer service
Our staff are fundamental to our key objective of 
delivering excellent customer service. We have always 
prioritised the development of our staff to deliver this 
service and we continue to be rigorous in the recruitment 
and retention of high calibre employees who are 
committed to delivering this customer service ethic  
and also playing a role in the continuing success of the 
business. We encourage staff to increase their level of 
knowledge and progress throughout the business, with  
an emphasis on internal promotion wherever possible.  
We have a sophisticated in-store e-learning training system 
and we incentivise our staff with competitive employee 
benefit packages and profit based rewards.
We continue to enjoy very high levels of customer 
satisfaction, with 98.8% of customers recently surveyed 
expressing levels of satisfaction as “good to excellent” 
(2008: 98.2%). These levels of satisfaction are driven not 
only by our friendly and knowledgeable staff, but also  
by our customer offering which is differentiated from  
our competitors in a number of ways: all of our stores carry 
a wide range and supply of stock; we offer a loan-a-tile 
service; a tile cutting service and a buy-back service 
We believe that our robust business model will enable us  
to deliver profits in line with expectations and continue to 
generate free cash and reduce net debt; as we have done 
over the last financial period. We remain confident that the 
business will benefit greatly as consumer confidence returns. 
 Adjusted operating profit*
£21.6m
(2008: £35.8m)
* as explained on page 1
Review of the business
Governance
Financial Statements
Other information
4
Topps Tiles Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
