 Chairman’s statement
We indicated in our Interim Management Report that  
the challenges facing retailers through the economic 
downturn were still very evident. Although there are signs 
that a level of stability is returning to our market, consumer 
confidence is still being impacted by the continuing 
economic pressures and our results reflect this. However, 
the business has continued to demonstrate its robustness 
and resilience and we are pleased to deliver financial 
results that are in line with both the management’s and 
the market’s expectations. We continue to address the 
challenges to our business through prudent cash 
management, attention to our customer offer and 
ensuring that we maintain our market leading position.
We have a strong business model which continues to 
generate both profit and free cash flow and I remain 
confident that we will be well positioned to benefit  
when consumer confidence returns.
Financial results
Total Group revenue has declined year-on-year to  
£186.1 million (2008: £208.1 million) with like-for-like revenue 
for the period showing a decline of 13.5% on last year. 
Operating profit for the period was £16.4 million (2008: 
£34.6 million) giving a profit before tax of £4.9 million  
(2008: £27 .7 million). Basic earnings per share were  
1.01p (2008: 9.56p). 
During the period we have incurred £5.2 million of 
exceptional charges relating to the closure of stores in  
both the UK and Holland and a £5.8 million non cash 
charge relating to interest rate derivatives the Group  
has in place. On an adjusted basis, we have generated  
an operating profit* of £21.6 million (2008: £35.8 million)  
and a profit before tax* of £16.3 million (2008: £29.5  
million). Adjusted basic earnings per share* were 6.62p  
(2008: 1 1.16p).
Dividend
In order to continue the reduction in net debt and further 
improve the Group’s financial flexibility, the Board has 
decided, consistent with the last financial period, not to 
pay a final dividend for this financial period. We believe 
this is in the best interests of the business in the prevailing 
economic environment and we will continue to review the 
dividend policy on a bi-annual basis. 
Board changes
Victor Watson did not seek re-election at the AGM on  
13 January 2009 and stepped down from the Board.  
There have been no further changes to the Board over  
the last period. The Board is grateful to Victor for all of his 
support and contribution to the Company over a very 
successful ten-year period.
People 
The Company’s staff are fundamental to delivering the 
outstanding customer service ethic that we have pursued, 
and their performance is a key factor in the continuing 
success of the business. This service ethic differentiates 
Topps Tiles from its competitors and I would like to extend 
the Board’s thanks and gratitude to everyone in the 
Company for their continuing efforts and hard work.
Outlook
Our management team has continued to make  
significant progress to ensure we have a resilient business 
that is as well placed as possible to benefit from a return  
of consumer confidence. We have delivered profits in  
line with expectations, prudently managed our store 
estate and aggressively reduced costs and net debt.  
Our current UK trading figures offer some encouragement, 
suggesting that we have seen a stabilising of sales levels  
in our primary market. The Board remains confident that  
we will continue to withstand the challenging economic 
environment and will be in a strong position to benefit  
as the economy recovers. 
Barry Bester
Chairman
Total Group revenue
£186. 1m
(2008: £208.1m)
Adjusted profit before tax*
£16.3m
(2008: £29.5m)
Our management team has continued to make significant  
progress to ensure we have a resilient business that is as well  
placed as possible to benefit from a return of consumer 
confidence. We have delivered profits in line with expectations, 
prudently managed our store estate and aggressively  
reduced costs and net debt.
* as explained on page 1
Review of the business
Governance
Financial Statements
Other information
3
Topps Tiles Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
