 TOPPS TILES PLC 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 03
I am pleased to report another strong performance by the Group with
record profits and increased UK market share.  We have consolidated
our position as the leading UK ceramic tile and wood flooring 
specialist, backed by what is now a truly national brand. The new
Topps Distribution and Marketing Centre is fully integrated with the
capacity to support our UK store target of a minimum of 350 stores.
The period has seen a particularly weak UK consumer environment,
however I am pleased to report the resilience of our business model
has enabled us to continue to deliver record results and to outperform
the market.  
Since flotation in 1997 total shareholder return has grown by over
2,000% and we have consistently been a top performing company in
the FTSE Index. 
Financial Results
Group turnover has increase by 10.0% over the period to £173.3 
million, with profit before tax increasing by 16.1% to £39.2 million.
Gross margins have improved to 61.3% compared to 60.5% in 2004.
2004 was an exceptional year in respect of trading and if you look at
the trend over the last two years like-for-like sales have improved
24.9%
Set against extremely strong comparatives last year and the tough UK
trading, growth in like-for-like sales for the period was 3.4%, with 
overall sales growth of 10.0%. 
Our business continues to be highly cash generative and at the year
end we had net cash balances of £21.8 million.
Board Changes
As announced at the Annual General Meeting on 11 January 2005,
Stuart Williams, my co-founder of Topps, stepped down as 
Co-Chairman and Board Director on 31 March 2005. I am delighted
however that Stuart has taken on the newly created non Board 
advisory role of President and continues to offer his expertise and
guidance to the business.
Dividend
The Board continues to be committed to a progressive dividend policy
and is recommending a final dividend of 6.00 pence per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.50p per share the total 
dividend for the period will be 9.50 pence per share, an increase of
18.8%. The dividend will be paid on 31 January 2006 to all shareholders
on the register as at 13 January 2006.
People
Our staff are fundamental to the success of the business and I would
like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees for their 
inspiring contributions and continued commitment during the period.
We have created another 174 jobs as a direct result of our expansion
programme.
Outlook
Although the current UK trading environment continues to be volatile,
I remain confident that the strength of our business model and the
expertise of the strong management team will enable us to continue
to grow the business and ensure the delivery of sustainable growth for
shareholders.
Barry Bester
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The key to our continued success is our commitment to the highest levels of 
customer service and both the range and quality of products that we offer.
244 stores - one focus
Barry Bester
Chairman TOPPS TILES PLC 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 04
Store 
locations
Stock 
availability
Store 
layout
Our success 
is built on four 
key cornerstones:
>
>
>
>
Customer
service
