 T opps Tiles Plc
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008
2
At a glance
T opps Tiles is a specialist tile retailer with 342 outlets 
across operating 3 retail brands across the UK and Holland.
In the UK, we are the country’ s largest retailer of our kind
with a total of 320 stores and a 22% market share.
The T opps’ strategy is focused on delivering outstanding
value to our customers. This has enabled us to retain our
competitive advantage built upon the strong foundations 
of customer service, store locations, store layout, product
choice and availability .
The retail trading environment has become increasingly
challenging during the year and our results have been
affected accordingly . We intend to strengthen further our
market leading position and believe that we will benefit
significantly when consumer confidence returns.
Our three core brands explained:
T opps Tiles
Tile Clearing House
T opps Holland
T opps is the UK’ s leading branded tile retailer with 263 stores offering wall and floor tiles,
natural stone, laminate, solid wood flooring and a comprehensive range of associated
products such as underfloor heating, adhesives and grouts. 
All of our stores carry a wide range and supply of stock, we offer a loan-a-tile service, 
a free “How to” DVD, a tile cutting service and a buy-back service allowing customers 
to “sell back” undamaged tiles within 45 days of purchase. In addition, we have teamed 
up with traders local to each of our stores to provide customers with a T opps approved
tile installation service. These services coupled with friendly and knowledgeable staff
offering expert technical advice led to 98.2% of customers surveyed expressing levels 
of satisfaction as “good to excellent” (2007: 97.6%).
Tile Clearing House is the biggest clearance tile retailer in the UK with 57 stores
nationwide focusing on a cash and carry type format. 
The brand is aimed at a slightly different customer sector which in the main are jobbing
builders, small contractors, and bulk purchases. The customer offer is geared towards an
everyday value proposition with the addition of “when it’ s gone it’ s gone” type end of line
and discounted product offers. The Tile Clearing House brand is located in prominent
positions in towns where T opps Tiles are also sited.
Trading since 2002 T opps Floorstore with its 22 stores across Holland is the leading
specialist retailer of wood flooring in Holland.
We are continuing to develop the business and are focused on driving up sales densities
and improving business profitability.
