 TOPPS TILES PLC
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
05
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
WE HAVE AGAIN THIS YEAR 
DEMONSTRATED THE STRENGTH OF OUR
STRATEGY AND OUR ORGANIC GROWTH.
OUR MARKET LEADING POSITION,
EXCELLENT CUSTOMER SERVICE AND
COMMITTED STAFF HAVE ALL 
CONTRIBUTED TO ANOTHER SOLID YEAR
DESPITE A TOUGH HOME IMPROVEMENT
MARKET.
Tile Clearing House (“TCH”)
Tile Clearing House, our “cash and carry” offering has had
a strong trading period. We have opened a net 9 new TCH
outlets and the format continues to prove popular with
both trade customers and jobbing builders. We now have
a total of 55 stores in the UK. New locations include
Dartford, Southend, Plymouth and Lincoln. 
Holland
Against the backdrop of a stable market, we have seen
good growth in sales and profits in our Dutch business.
We opened a further five stores taking the total to 20.
Our marketing activity has been at a local level to date.
However, as we experienced with the UK market, as we
begin to reach a size that brings scalable benefits we
anticipate increasing our advertising and marketing to a
national audience. We continue to improve the mix of
sales with 25% now coming from tiles and the remainder
from wood flooring, accessories and adhesives. Plans for
the current year include the opening of a minimum of a 
further five new stores.
UK Store Development and Expansion
We are pleased to have again achieved our store opening
target of 30 net new stores in the period, giving us an
overall total of 301 trading outlets throughout the UK. We
have modified the target going forward to a minimum of
20 net new stores reflecting a wider focus on improving
and renewing the estate.  
Topps Tiles
We have opened 25 stores in new locations, rebranded 2
from the TCH format, refitted 10 outlets and closed or
relocated a further 6 giving us a total of 246 Topps
stores. New locations include Crewe, Sheffield, Gloucester,
Aylesbury, Scarborough, Brixton and Byfleet.
We continue to develop our store portfolio and have now
rolled out our new format across a total of 65 stores. The
new enhanced display formats are proving popular with
both customers and staff. We introduced a number of new
ranges with a particular focus on natural products due to
their increasing popularity. 
Our aim is simple – to deliver sustainable
growth and returns to shareholders and 
central to that aim are our customers. We
strive to enhance our customers’ buying
experience by constantly improving stores
and ranges and offering the best in customer
service. TOPPS TILES PLC
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
06
Marketing, advertising and sponsorship
Over the last year we have maintained our national and
regional marketing and advertising campaigns with
Carlton Weather and our sponsorship of the UK Style
channel.
This year we also signed a sponsorship deal with Leicester
City Football Club to coincide with the kick-off of the new
football season in August. Although a commercial deal we
very much see this as an extension to our community
youth football initiative. Topps Tiles is Britain’s biggest
supporter of community youth football and we currently
sponsor around 300 local teams nationwide. 
Staff development and customer service
Recruiting and retaining ambitious people at Topps is a
core part of our strategy. We place significant emphasis
on the training and development of our employees. We
have continued to develop our e-learning training system
in store with a number of new courses. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT continued
Group revenue was £207.9m, an increase of
15.4% on last year with like-for-like revenue
for the period up 4.7%. Group operating profit
was £44.3 million, an increase of 14.1% 
compared with last year.
We differentiate our business from the competition in a
number of ways. All of our stores carry a wide range and
supply of stock, we offer a loan-a-tile service, a free “How
to” DVD, a tile cutting service and a buy-back service
allowing customers to “sell back” undamaged tiles within
45 days of purchase. These services coupled with friendly
and knowledgeable staff offering technical advice led to
97.6% of customers surveyed expressing levels of 
satisfaction as ‘good to excellent’ (2006: 99.1%).
Corporate responsibility
Topps believes in conducting its business in a manner
which achieves sustainable growth whilst incorporating
and demonstrating social responsibility. Our policy is 
published on our website at www.toppstiles.co.uk and
more detail on our achievements can be found later in
this report.
The Board takes regular account of social, environmental
and ethical matters in the business of the Group and
believes in being responsible in the way that it conducts
its operations.  TOPPS TILES PLC
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
07
a requirement for a broader product offering and also a
trend towards refurbishing traditional rooms more 
regularly.
Alongside these consumer trends household numbers
continue to grow faster than the UK population, which is
anticipated to rise by 12% over the next 25 years (source:
ONS). This is in contrast to the increasing number of
households, which is expected to grow by almost 23% in
the next 20 years, from 20.9m in 2003 to 25.7m in 2026,
3 million of these are expected to be built by 2020.
(source: Government forecasts).
We therefore believe Topps is well placed to benefit from
these consumer and housing trends driving the growth in
the tile market. 
Current Trading and Outlook              
In the first 7 weeks of the new financial period Group
overall revenue increased by 8.4% and like for like sales
by 1.1%.
In the UK revenue increased 8.1% and like for like sales by
1.0%. In Holland overall sales increased 18.1% with like for
like sales up 2.5%.
We have had a challenging but positive start to the new
financial period and there remains an underlying growth
trend in the retail tile market. Whilst we believe the
prospects for the future growth of Topps Tiles remain
broadly positive we must not underestimate the potential
impact that this year’s turmoil in financial markets will
ultimately have on consumers.  
Matthew Williams
Chief Executive Officer
Topps is pleased to be a constituent member of the
FTSE4Good UK Index.
The Market
We are the leading tile retailer in the UK with an estimated
market share of in excess of 22% and we have continued
to grow market share over the last financial year.
The Home Improvement retail sector continues to see
overall expansion and the UK tile market is forecast to
grow by volume by over 15% between 2007 and 2011
(source: MBD).
There is significant potential for growth in our 
marketplace with the UK still having one of the lowest
usages per head of ceramic tiles in Europe, at a level
around one third of that of other Northern European
countries (source: MBD). Consumers are becoming more
demanding and buying trends are showing the desire to
tile rooms beyond the traditional kitchen and bathroom,
4.7%
Like-for-like sales growth.
62.8%
Overall Group gross margin
(2006: 62.6%).
