 06 Torex Retail Plc | Report & Accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Chris Moore
Chief Executive
Our Store Management Solutions business 
has made excellent progress during the
period.
Operations |
Our Store Management Solutions (“SMS”) business has
made excellent progress during the period in both the UK
and Germany. We have continued to experience strong
new sales success for LUCAS, the Group’s market
leading JAVA-based EPoS solution, with a number of
significant contracts from major retailers including
Breuninger, Tedi, Otto, ESPRIT, Sport Scheck, Heinrich
Heine and Mont Blanc.
LUCAS, launched at the end of 2000, has over 8,000 
till installations across Europe and North America. 
This is a very impressive achievement for a new product
and not only demonstrates the strong market demand 
for this innovative solution but also provides an unrivalled
installed reference base for future sales. In 2005 we will
roll out LUCAS in the UK for Deichmann, the international
shoe retailer.
The UK business also achieved notable EPoS wins with
our Visual software product. Following a successful pilot
of 30 stores, the Co-operative Group Pharmacy have
contracted to roll out the solution to their chain of 300
stores nationwide.  Chief Executive’s Business Review | 2004 Report & Accounts | Torex Retail Plc 07
The renewal of a £7 million contract with WH Smith
Travel Retail to provide full IT outsourcing services was 
a key contract for the business. The contract, which runs
until 2007, represents a significant renewal for Torex
Retail and follows the successful provision of this service
to WH Smith Travel Retail over the past four years. This
win demonstrates our continued ability to retain high
profile blue chip business customers.
Operationally, SMS was involved in large rollouts for
Matalan, Kaufland, Ipswich and Norwich Co-operative
Society and Toom, a German DIY business. The Matalan
rollout featured the first implementation in the world of a
new LINUX-based IBM operating system for retailers, 
and we are very proud to have received a prestigious
IBM Solution Provider Excellence award for our work on
this account. In North America, LUCAS was successfully
rolled out into 45 Montblanc stores and fully integrated
into the customer’s Swiss head office SAP system. 
The second half of the year also included a number of
estate-wide implementations for Chip and PIN solutions.
The relatively slow take-up of Chip and PIN by retailers is
well documented but we expect a significant increase in
this business in the first half of 2005.
Budgens and Torex Retail are
committed to working closely to
provide streamlined products
and services for their many
mutual customers throughout
the UK.
SMS achieved notable success with Big Food Group,
implementing our staff scheduling software solution
across their estate of 950 Booker and Iceland stores
throughout the UK. In addition, the recently acquired
Business Intelligence operation (part of the Alphameric
Retail Division) signed a sizeable three year contract 
with a leading US ladies fashion retailer to supply
Smartdecision, our leading edge merchandise planning
and decision support product. This contract underlines
the significant potential for Smartdecision in the US
market where, given the huge demographic and climate
variations, the requirement for range planning at store
level is great and can provide a very attractive return on
investment to retailers through increased shelf availability
and reduced mark-downs.
Our Petroleum and Convenience (“P&C”) business has
continued to grow during 2004, enjoying a record year
both for order intake for its Iridium and Prism EPoS
solution and for the number of installations, which
increased by 25% to 842. This reinforced our position as
the leading supplier of systems to independent petroleum
retailers in the UK.  08 Torex Retail Plc | Report & Accounts 2004 | Chief Executive’s Business Review
Our goal is to create solutions that enable our customers to
choose the right product that gives them competitive advantage
in an increasingly challenging marketplace.
Product strategy |
We believe that technological innovation is critical to our
success as a leader in the retail IT systems market. It is
only through utilising modern technology that we can
provide retailers with scaleable systems that provide low
total cost of ownership and a quick demonstrable return
on investment. To underpin our commitment to modern
technology and continued innovation we have 25% 
of staff involved in product development or related
technical areas.
LUCAS is our strategic EPoS solution. It was designed
with the vision of meeting the requirements of international
retailers who want to exploit the benefits of running
common systems across their multi-national estate. 
To achieve this, it is based on JAVA technology. 
This provides a tremendously scaleable system which 
is independent of the underlying hardware, operating
systems and database. LUCAS has no legacy code and
is designed to take full advantage of the processing
capabilities of modern hardware and databases. 
In addition, LUCAS has been designed using the
internationally accepted ARTS data model which greatly
speeds up the development of new functionality and the
adoption of the product in new markets.
As a balance to our adoption of JAVA as our principal
EPoS technology, our head office systems have been
developed using the latest Microsoft .NET technology.
This not only uses both technologies to exploit their
respective strengths but also allows us, from a marketing
and partner perspective, to leverage relationships with 
all the major IT companies throughout the world.
Major product development projects completed during
the period include the continued enhancement of LUCAS
together with the localisation work required to introduce
LUCAS to the UK and North American markets. We are
now working on projects to integrate LUCAS seamlessly
with our newly acquired merchandise management
products. In addition we have successfully developed a
self scanning terminal in an international apparel retailer to
allow customers to serve themselves and this product is
now being run on an extended pilot in the retailer’s stores. Chief Executive’s Business Review | 2004 Report & Accounts | Torex Retail Plc 09
A new fully internet-enabled version of our successful
LORD loss prevention product has been released in 2004.
We are undertaking a major expansion of the functionality
of our best of breed, merchandise planning product,
Smartdecision. With this project we are working very
closely with a major US fashion and apparel retailer to
ensure that the product exactly meets a retailers
requirements. In P&C we are implementing petroleum
functionality into LUCAS to provide a highly scaleable
and centrally managed EPoS solution to target the large
multi-national petroleum retailers.
We are proud of our strong and
growing customer base which
includes many major names
across the UK, Europe and 
the US. 10 Torex Retail Plc | Report & Accounts 2004 | Chief Executive’s Business Review
Sales and marketing |
2004 has seen a significant investment to refocus 
Torex Retail from a business model which prioritised
customer retention to one that in addition aggressively
seeks new business. A key part of the strategy of the
newly-independent Torex Retail is to shed its image as
“one of the best kept secrets in retail IT” and substantially
raise the profile of the business as a supplier of a
comprehensive range of innovative and market leading
retail management solutions.
As part of this process new corporate branding, 
including a new website (www.torexretail.com), has been
introduced and all of our activities across Europe now
trade under the Torex Retail brand. In addition, the Group
has appointed a number of experienced sales executives
to drive new business, particularly in the UK market. 
The benefit of this investment is evidenced by the new
contract wins in 2004 and a strong sales pipeline for
2005, supplemented by an excellent prospects list.
An integrated Torex Retail POS
solution on a Texaco highway
station in Belgium allows the
station manager control over
both forecourt and shop.
Chief Executive’s Business Review continued Chief Executive’s Business Review | 2004 Report & Accounts | Torex Retail Plc 11
A further route to market is via partners and during 2004
much greater emphasis has been placed upon building
relationships with these third parties. In particular 
Torex Retail has been appointed an IBM Premier
Business Partner. This is IBM’s highest category of
partner and there are only two other similar status
partners in the UK retail IT market. We are also in
discussion with a number of potential distributors 
and other third parties to help us introduce our leading
IPR software products into new geographic markets.
We are confident that working more closely with 
partners going forward will help us win increased levels 
of business, particularly amongst larger retailers and in
new markets.
Business development |
During the period we enhanced the SMS business in 
the UK with two acquisitions. 
In August we acquired KPOS, a long standing supplier of
IT systems to the UK retail market with an outstanding
reputation for customer service. The acquisition of KPOS
creates significant cross selling opportunities to the
expanded customer base and increases our channel to
the UK market. Integration benefits have been realised in
2004 and new areas of synergy will be achieved during
the coming year.
In November we acquired the Alphameric Retail Division 
which established Torex Retail as the market leader in 
the UK for retail IT systems. Going forward, the increased
critical mass of our business provides us with much greater
leverage when negotiating contracts. The enlarged
product portfolio, including merchandise management
and business intelligence systems, strengthens our
offering as a ‘one stop shop’ for retailers’ IT solutions.
The acquisition also provides the opportunity for strong
organic growth by cross-selling the enhanced product
portfolio within the combined customer base. This gives
customers the confidence that they are buying from 
the marker leader.
The integration of the business is already well under way
and ahead of schedule. The management team is now in
place and manning levels are currently being assessed in
other areas of the business. Annualised cost savings of
£3.3 million have been identified. 
In September the remaining 30.2% of the German Torex
Retail Solutions GmbH (“Torex GmbH”) business was
acquired. Torex GmbH develops LUCAS, which is the
basis of the product offering that the Group is
successfully marketing and rolling out across Europe 
and North America.
Following the period end, the Group acquired Flexiline
Forecourt Services Limited (“Flexiline”). The acquisition
will be integrated into the P&C business and will give us
the ability to provide a complete solution for all filling
station installation and maintenance services which we
believe will be particularly attractive to the major oil
companies and large supermarket groups.
Chris Moore 
Chief Executive
30 March 2005
Torex Retail’s Java-based store
management system LUCAS 
has been deployed in
approximately 500 checkout
systems at the German 
jewellery retailer Christ.
