 3
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 1
Review of the business
Governance
Financial Statements
Other information
k
Chair Man’s sTaTeMenT
Our Business
Our expectation for the year was that it would again be 
tough for retailers in our sector and that proved to be the 
case. Nevertheless, we were encouraged by our first 
half performance, which saw overall revenues grow by 
1.8% on a like-for-like basis. However, as we progressed 
through the second half the combined effects of a 
deteriorating economic outlook, stagnation in the housing 
market and falls in domestic purchasing power further 
undermined consumer confidence. Inevitably this has 
had a negative impact on our business and like-for-like 
revenues were down 2.0%. Total revenue for the 
financial period was £175.5 million with adjusted profit 
before tax
2
 of £13.9 million, down from £16.3 million in 
the prior period. Notwithstanding this difficult trading 
backdrop our gross margin remained robust at 59.6% 
(2010: 58.7%).
In our previous Annual Report we committed ourselves 
to prudent cost management, further investment in key 
infrastructure and a targeted growth in our store estate. 
Good progress has been made against all of these 
objectives, enabling the Group to:
 a Grow the store estate to 320 by the period end, 
up from 312
 a Convert five Tile Clearing House sites to the more 
profitable Topps format
 a Complete our new warehouse, enabling a longer term 
shift towards more direct sourcing, thereby enhancing 
margins
 a Commence the implementation of a new IT system
 a Build greater awareness of the Topps brand through 
national TV campaigns
Our Pe OPl e and their c On tri Buti On
A keen focus on the demands of the customer is at the 
heart of any successful retail business. Feedback from 
our rigorous “mystery shop” monitoring has confirmed 
that Topps is now in the top 10% of retailers in Europe 
when it comes to levels of customer service. This result 
validates our policy of continuous “on the job” staff 
training. Such a result could not have been achieved 
without the hard work and commitment of everyone who 
works at Topps, either in store or as part of our support 
functions. Our staff have also demonstrated their 
community spirit through their unerring support of the 
Help for Heroes campaign. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank them all for their remarkable 
contribution to the business, and the wider community, 
across the entire year.
cO r POr ate g Ov ernance
This year Barry Bester, our Chairman since 2003, and 
co-founder of the business, brought his time with Topps to 
a close. After 26 years of dedicated commitment to the 
business, he announced in May that he wished to pursue 
his other business interests. Stuart Williams, co-founder 
and Company President has also announced his 
intention to conclude his formal involvement with the 
Group. Together Stuart and Barry formed a partnership 
which helped to take Topps from a private business, with 
just a few stores, to today’s publicly quoted enterprise 
with 321 outlets nationally. We owe both of them a 
deep debt of gratitude for all they have done to help 
develop Topps into Britain’s number one tile retailer. 
The Board recognises the need to recruit additional 
independent Non-Executive Directors to bring the Board 
into line with corporate governance best practice. 
This process is well advanced and we expect to be 
in a position to make an announcement early in 2012. 
Michael Jack – c hairman
“TOPPS HAS MAINTAINED ITS POSITION AS 
BRITAIN’S NUMBER ONE TILE RETAILER BY 
GIVING ITS CUSTOMERS INSPIRATION FOR 
THEIR HOME IMPROVEMENT PROjECTS, 
OUTSTANDING VALUE FOR MONEY AND 
ExCEPTIONAL LEVELS OF SERVICE.”
2
 As explained on page 1
14887_TT_AR11_p1-25.indd   3 07/12/2011   21:49 4
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 1
Chairman’s statement
Continued
the satin finish of Chic gives a handmade 
appearance, a perfect choice for adding 
character into room design.
Our new sage metro brings this classic brick 
shaped ceramic up to date with an on-trend 
colour palette.
Divi Den D
Last year we announced the resumption of dividend 
payments. Although trading has been tough in this 
financial period, prudent financial management has 
enabled the Board to recommend to shareholders a final 
dividend of 0.6p per share. This will cost £1.1 million. 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting the 
dividend will be payable on 31 January 2012 to all 
shareholders on the register as at 30 December 201 1. 
This brings the total dividend for the year to 1.1p per 
share (2010: 1.0p per share), an increase of 10%.
Our Future
Looking ahead, we recognise that economic conditions 
will remain difficult in 2012, with consumer budgets 
again under pressure. However, we will remain focused 
on maintaining our market leading position safeguarding 
our margins and looking at further ways in which cost 
can be taken out of the business.
At store level our product presentation will be enhanced 
to enable us to continue the theme of inspiring customers’ 
home improvement plans. We will also invest in staff 
training and development to ensure a continuity of well 
qualified staff, trained to deliver Topps’ outstanding 
customer service. Our online presence will be developed 
so that customers can more easily choose the tile that is 
just right for them. We will also continue to look for 
opportunities to open a limited number of new stores 
in those parts of the country where we are under-
represented. All of these initiatives will be supported by 
sustained marketing spend, with improved targeting, 
to ensure that our message of great prices, unparalleled 
product ranges, and superb service is communicated 
to both our retail and trade customers alike.
Michael Jack
Chairman
28 November 201 1
 
£13.9m
Adjusted profit before tax
2
 
(53 weeks ended 2 o ctober 2010: £16.3m)
1.1p
t otal dividend 
(53 weeks ended 2 o ctober 2010: 1.0p)
Metro Chic
2
 As explained on page 1
14887_TT_AR11_p1-25.indd   4 08/12/2011   14:23
