 Topps Tiles continues to be the market 
leader in its sector with a strong and 
resilient business model. The economic 
environment has continued to be 
challenging for retailers and to mitigate 
the possible impact on our performance 
we have maintained our focus on 
delivering outstanding customer service 
and providing excellent value high quality 
products. This focus has ensured that we 
have delivered a robust set of financial 
results against what remains a challenging 
economic backdrop. When combined 
with the continued prudent management 
of costs and material reduction in net 
debt, I feel the business is financially  
well positioned and we can progress  
our plans for growth.
UK store development  
and expansion
Over the last three years our store 
expansion strategy was realigned to take 
account of the changes in the economic 
environment. In the last 12 months we 
have again returned to store growth and 
have opened 12 new stores and closed  
or relocated nine stores, resulting in a  
net increase of three stores.
The Group is now trading from a total of 
312 outlets throughout the UK and in the 
coming year we have plans in place to 
increase the size of the business by  
at least 10 new stores.
In order to facilitate our plans for store 
expansion and to enable us to integrate 
our supply chain further, we have 
commenced construction of a second 
warehousing facility at our Leicestershire 
headquarters, at an expected cost of 
£3 million. This will form a key part of 
our logistics strategy over the coming 
years and we anticipate it will be fully 
operational by April 201 1. 
 
 
Topps Tiles
We have opened a net 10 new stores 
and now have a total of 275 Topps 
outlets. This includes eight new openings 
and five stores we have rebranded from 
Tile Clearing House (TCH). We have 
closed seven stores in the period, four  
of which have been relocated to 
improved sites.
Our e-commerce business continues to 
make good progress, now offering the 
vast majority of our instore offer and, in 
addition, some internet only products. 
Customers are able to research projects, 
browse the ranges and make decisions 
about projects before final purchase, 
which can then be completed either 
online or in-store depending upon 
customers’ preference. This part of the 
business now represents approximately 
1% of our turnover and we anticipate 
another year of strong growth. We will 
continue to invest in this important source 
of growth and expect to see it play an 
increasingly important role in our overall 
customer offer. 
Tile Clearing House (TCH)
TCH remains focused on trade customers 
and jobbing builders, operating a “cash 
and carry” type format. During the period 
we have refitted and rebranded five stores 
to the Topps format and closed a further 
two, a net reduction of seven stores to 
37 outlets. Results from rebranded stores 
demonstrate that a higher level of turnover 
is now being generated, which we 
believe is due to stronger branding and 
an enhanced customer offer available  
from the Topps format. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Holland
We reported in the Interim Management 
Report that during the period the Board 
had taken the decision to withdraw 
support and funding for its loss-making 
Dutch subsidiary, as announced on  
18 December 2009. 
As a consequence of the notification 
of the withdrawal of support, the local 
management team took the decision 
to cease trading and appoint an 
administrator.
This series of actions, and subsequent 
removal of the Dutch business from the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements, 
has resulted in a £1.5 million one-off 
non cash gain. This gain reflects the final 
accounting entries relating to the Dutch 
subsidiary and includes the write down 
and releases of the remaining balance 
sheet items, principally creditors, onerous 
lease provisions, stock and overdraft 
balances. This has been presented in the 
consolidated income statement under 
“discontinued operations”, together with 
the losses from the comparative periods. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
For more information,  
please visit: 
www.toppstiles.co.uk
We are encouraged by current trading despite the 
challenging economic outlook and subdued levels of 
consumer confidence. We are confident that the business 
will benefit from our growth strategy and our continued 
focus on delivering outstanding value to our customers.
£21.1 m
Adjusted operating profit** 
(2009: £22.8m*)
£182.4m
Group revenue
(2009: £178.8m*)
* ** As explained on page 1
 Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
5
Review of the business Governance Financial Statements Other information
Chief Executive’s statement h
Back on TV – with national weather 
sponsorship, we cleverly merge some  
of our most stunning photography with 
all weather scenes.
* As explained on page 1
+1.7 %
Group like-for-like revenue 
(2009: –13.1%*)
h
Our online development 
includes entry into the  
mobile devices arena...  
our brochure and store 
locator is now available  
as an Iphone App. 
 Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing, advertising and 
sponsorship
For the majority of the financial period 
we have maintained a more cautious 
approach to marketing spend and activity 
levels remain at an historically low level.  
The marketing we have engaged in 
has been focused on tactical store 
based activity rather than external 
media campaigns. However, during the 
second half of the period we secured a 
competitive television weather sponsorship 
campaign with ITV in London, which was 
then rolled-out on Granada TV, followed 
by a national campaign which is running 
currently. We will continue to focus 
on tight cost control of our marketing 
activities but will also continue to review 
where great value opportunities exist that 
allow us to focus on promoting our brand.
Our commitment to our local communities 
through sponsorship and charitable 
activity remains strong. We aim to make 
positive contributions to those communities 
served by our stores, working closely with 
them to promote our priority of being a 
“good neighbour”. We currently sponsor 
over 310 youth football teams nationwide, 
providing the teams with new kits and 
equipment. Our work for the charity, 
Help for Heroes, which we have been 
supporting since 2008, has gone from 
strength to strength and we have  
already helped to raise over £120,000. 
We also work with the British Association 
of Modern Mosaic (“BAMM”), 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sponsoring two national competitions 
and supporting the promotion of mosaic 
art in schools and community groups 
countrywide. Alongside this work with 
the BAMM, Topps Tiles participated in 
one of London’s biggest ever public art 
events, the Elephant Parade 2010, in 
support of the charity, Elephant Family. 
We sponsored a life-sized model baby 
elephant named Phoolan, which was 
decorated entirely in mosaic tiles, and 
was installed outside the Natural History 
Museum, highlighting the plight of 
endangered Asian elephants.
Staff development and 
customer service
We have always said that our staff are 
fundamental to fulfilling our key objective 
of delivering excellent customer service. 
We believe it is imperative to assist the 
professional development of our staff 
to deliver this service, and we continue 
to be rigorous in the recruitment and 
retention of high calibre employees who 
are committed to upholding this customer 
service ethic and contributing to the 
ongoing success of the business.  
We encourage staff to learn as they 
work and have recently completed 
some significant maintenance and 
upgrade work to our sophisticated in-
store e-learning training system. These 
improvements have facilitated the recent 
introduction of vocational qualifications to 
our customer facing staff, which not only 
acknowledges their existing skills, but also 
signposts their future development needs 
as well as having a key role in succession 
planning. A successful pilot scheme has 
led to a national roll-out of a Certificate 
in Retail – Level 2, accredited by City 
& Guilds. Plans are already underway 
for a Level 3 award as well as a Young 
Apprenticeship Programme.
 
 
6
Chief Executive’s statement continued h
In July we launched the new Prestige 
Stone range, our finest quality natural 
stone collection.
97.6%
Customer satisfaction rating 
(2009: 98.8%)
Review of the business
 Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Other information Financial Statements Governance
7
All our staff are incentivised with 
competitive benefit packages and 
performance based rewards, and  
we encourage internal promotion.  
We anticipate that staffing levels will 
increase as we start to expand the store 
base and further develop new areas  
of growth.
Our customer satisfaction levels remain 
consistently high, with 97 .6% of customers 
recently surveyed expressing levels of 
satisfaction as “good to excellent”  
(2009: 98.8%). These levels of satisfaction 
are driven by the performance of 
our friendly and knowledgeable staff 
combined with a product and value 
service unmatched by our competitors: 
all of our stores carry a wide range 
and supply of stock; we offer a loan-a-
tile service; a tile cutting service and a 
buy-back service allowing customers to 
“sell back” undamaged tiles within 45 
days of purchase. We also supply a free 
“How to” DVD and have a comprehensive 
selection of helpful “Topps Tips” on our 
website. In addition, each of our stores 
has links with accredited traders who can 
provide customers with a Topps’ approved 
installation service.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate responsibility
The management team at Topps Tiles is 
committed to a corporate responsibility 
policy that ensures the Group’s business 
is conducted according to socially 
responsible, environmentally friendly and 
ethical policies. We are very proud of the 
work that we have been involved in and 
have endeavoured to work responsibly 
with all of our stakeholders for a number 
of years.
The areas we have given most focus  
to are:
• Community and Charity
• Environment
• Our People
Our policy is published on our website  
at www.toppstiles.co.uk and more detail 
can be found in this report.
Topps Tiles is pleased to be a constituent 
member of the FTSE4Good UK Index. 
The market
Topps has seen its position as the UK’s 
leading tile retailer further strengthen  
as market share has grown to 25% 
(2009: 23%) (source: MBD). Market 
conditions remain tough but despite 
this we have managed to outperform 
the market and grow share due to 
our unwavering focus on offering our 
customers outstanding value.
Tile consumption in the UK continues to be 
low in comparison to the rest of Europe 
(roughly one-third compared to Northern 
Europe, source MBD), and long-term 
growth projections, based on increases 
in housing stock and consumer usage 
of tiles, remain attractive. There is the 
potential for over 400 Topps Tiles  
stores in the UK. 
Current trading and outlook
In the first seven weeks of the new 
financial period, Group revenues 
increased by 2.9% and increased by 
3.2% on a like-for-like basis.
We are encouraged by current trading 
despite the challenging economic 
outlook and subdued levels of consumer 
confidence. We are confident that the 
business will benefit from our growth 
strategy and our continued focus on 
delivering outstanding value to our 
customers.
Matthew Williams
Chief Executive Officer GREAT  
PRICES.
At Topps Tiles we not only offer the biggest choice 
of tiles and wood flooring, we are committed 
to offering our customers the best tiles at the 
best prices. Plus our customers can shop with 
confidence with our Lowest Price Guarantee. 
So whether our customers are tiling the smallest 
of rooms or the whole house we have quality 
products to suit every budget.
8
