 In our Interim Management Report we 
noted that the retail environment had 
continued to be challenging, particularly 
for those retailers dependent on 
discretionary spend. I am encouraged 
to be able to report that we have seen 
a return to like-for-like growth across the 
financial period as a whole.
Our performance for the period has 
demonstrated the resilience of our 
business model and the prudence of 
management’s decisions regarding the 
pursuit of growth, expansion of the store 
estate and marketing of the business.  
We have continued to manage the 
business prudently, focusing on cost 
control, and we remain firmly cash 
generative with a secure balance sheet 
and increasing strength in our trading 
levels. We are confident that we are 
well positioned to benefit when market 
conditions materially improve and 
consumer confidence returns  
more strongly.
Financial Results
Total Group revenue for the 53 week 
period has increased to £182.4 million 
(2009: £178.8 million* for the 52 week 
period) with like-for-like revenue for the 
period showing an increase of 1.7% on 
last year. Operating profit for the period 
was £19.9 million (2009: £21.3 million*) 
giving a profit before tax of £12.4 million 
(2009: £9.9 million*). Basic earnings per 
share were 5.37p (2009: 1.00p see  
note 13). 
 
 
 
During the period we have incurred 
£1.2 million (2009: £1.5 million*) of 
exceptional charges relating to the closure 
and relocation of stores in the UK.  
On an adjusted basis, we have  
generated an operating profit** of  
£21.1 million (2009: £22.8 million*)  
and a profit before tax*** of  
£16.3 million (2009: £17 .5 million*). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share for 
continuing operations**** were 6.18p 
(2009: 7 .34p see note 13).
Dividend 
The Board has given careful consideration 
to the resumption of dividend payments. 
Trading has improved and we are 
encouraged that we have seen a good 
level of stability, from which we feel we 
can plan and move forward. We have 
also commenced early negotiations 
with our existing lenders to extend our 
current banking facilities and, based 
on those discussions, the Board is now 
confident that new committed facilities 
will be in place over the coming months. 
As a result of progress on these two key 
issues, the Board feels that the resumption 
of dividend payments at this time is 
appropriate. The Board is recommending 
to shareholders a final dividend of  
1p per share, £1.9 million in total.  
Subject to approval by shareholders  
at the Annual General Meeting, this  
will be payable on 31 January 201 1 to  
all shareholders on the register as at  
31 December 2010. 
 
 
 
 
People 
The Company’s staff remain fundamental 
to the success of the business through their 
delivery of outstanding customer service. 
This service ethic sets Topps Tiles apart 
from its competitors and underpins the 
robust business model that has proved  
so valuable in enabling the Group to  
withstand the economic downturn.  
I would like to extend the Board’s thanks 
and gratitude once again to everyone  
in the Group for their continuing efforts 
and hard work. 
Outlook
The management team has maintained 
a keen focus on delivering profits whilst 
prudently managing costs, continuing 
to invest in infrastructure and pursuing 
targeted growth of the store estate. 
The business is performing in line with 
management’s expectations and current 
trading figures also offer cause for 
confidence.
We are, however, conscious of the 
demands on our consumers and that 
the recently announced Government 
spending reductions may have an impact 
on the macro economy as we look 
forward. We remain confident that our 
business is both well positioned to benefit 
from further improvements in consumer 
confidence and is also well protected 
against further economic pressures.
Barry Bester
Chairman
The management team has maintained a keen focus 
on delivering profits whilst prudently managing costs, 
continuing to invest in infrastructure and pursuing targeted 
growth of the store estate. The business is performing in 
line with management’s expectations and current trading 
figures also offer cause for confidence. 
£1 6.3m
Adjusted profit before tax ***
(2009: £17 .5m*)
 1 p
Dividend per share
(2009: Nil)
* ** *** **** As explained on page 1
 Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
3
Review of the business Governance Financial Statements Other information
Chairman’s statement GREAT  
CHOICE.
At Topps Tiles we have an unrivalled collection 
of products with the latest designs sourced from 
around the world. Our massive range of tiles and 
wood flooring offers great choice, from the period 
beauty of natural stone and real wood to the 
versatility of mosaics and the contemporary feel  
of glass, we’ve got ‘the look’ to suit every style. 
 Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
4
