 02 Torex Retail Plc | Report & Accounts 2004
Chairman’s Statement
The Group has made excellent progress
delivering outstanding financial results and 
at the same time significantly advancing the
strategic development of your business.
Trading results |
I am delighted to present our first set of results since the
admission of the Company to AIM on 2 March 2004. 
The Group has made excellent progress during the
period to 31 December 2004, delivering outstanding
financial results and at the same time significantly
advancing the strategic development of your business. 
I am particularly pleased to report that following the
acquisition of the Alphameric Retail Division (comprising
Pennine Retail Systems (Holdings) Limited and its
subsidiaries), the Group is now the UK market leader 
for retail IT systems.
In addition, we have established a strong management
team and are now extremely well positioned both to
achieve rapid growth and to aggressively pursue our
overall objective of maximising shareholder value by
establishing Torex Retail as the leading independent
solutions provider to the international retail IT market.
The reported results represent the trading of the Group
for the eleven months since the Company’s incorporation
on 4 February 2004. These show turnover of £67.9
million and operating profit before amortisation of
goodwill and exceptional items of £12.7 million.
Rob Loosemore
Chairman Chairman’s Statement | 2004 Report & Accounts | Torex Retail Plc 03
In order to provide a better understanding of our 
trading results we have prepared pro forma information 
(a summary of which is set out below and a complete
statement of which is included in the Financial Review). 
This shows the results for the Group as if it had been
trading in its current form for a full twelve month period,
with the exception that the Torex Retail (KPOS) Limited
(formerly KPOS Computer Systems Limited) (“KPOS”)
and Alphameric Retail Division businesses acquired
during 2004 are included from their dates of acquisition.
Pro forma twelve Pro forma twelve
months ended months ended
31 December 2004* 31 December 2003*
(unaudited) (unaudited)
£’000 £’000
Turnover 71,760 67,559
Operating profit * 12,508 8,064
Profit on ordinary activities 
before taxation 7,530 3,873
Earnings per share basic 2.7p 1.0p
Earnings per share diluted 2.6p 1.0p
* Full details of the basis of calculating the pro forma information are shown in 
the Financial Review. Operating profit is before charging exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation.
I am delighted to report that pro forma operating profit
increased by 55% to £12.5m. This excellent performance
is due mainly to very strong operating margins, which
reflect the success of our business model to focus on
software and services revenues rather than on lower
margin hardware business, combined with a very tight
control over costs. It is a great credit to our business that
our operating margins are amongst the highest in our
industry and give evidence of the high operational
efficiency of the Group. 
Pro forma basic EPS increased by a very impressive
170% to 2.7 pence.
Operating cash inflow represented 128% of operating
profit reflecting strong working capital management. 
Net debt was only £19.4 million at 31 December
compared to £16.0 million at the interim stage
notwithstanding the additional £7 million loan taken 
on in the second half to fund the acquisition of the
Alphameric Retail Division.
Management and staff |
During the period we have successfully established an
enviable team at plc board level and in depth throughout
the executive of the Company. Headed by myself, the 
plc executive of Chris Moore, Richard Thompson, 
Mark Pearman and Nigel Horn represent a first rate team
with a proven track record of effectively managing
profitable growth. Complemented by our non-executives
Geoffrey Forster and David Hallett, they make up the full
Board, which I am proud to lead. The wider Group
executive team is rich in talent, dedicated and immensely
motivated to achieving our goals.
I would like to pay tribute to all the staff of Torex Retail, 
who have all contributed to this first set of excellent results.
The Group employed over 1,100 people at 31 December
2004 and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank
them all for their valuable and much-appreciated
contribution. 04 Torex Retail Plc | Report & Accounts 2004 | Chairman’s Statement
Strategy |
The Group’s strategy is based around the continued
development of modern and innovative products, 
which can be sold both to new customers and
throughout the Group’s existing blue chip customer base. 
Our market leading LUCAS electronic point of sale
(‘EPoS’) product provides the platform for a suite of
integrated store management solutions including loss
prevention, labour scheduling, time and attendance and
customer counting. In addition the recent Alphameric
Retail Division acquisition has enhanced our strong 
in-store product offering with best-of-breed head office
and business intelligence solutions. These act as good
entry points to new customers for our EPoS products, 
as well as cross-selling opportunities to our existing base.
The Group’s focus on the sale of our own intellectual
property rights (‘IPR’) software, together with related
services, continues to prove successful both in terms 
of improved operating margins and also in new contract
wins. The Group’s leading IPR product portfolio and
commitment to modern technologies is a key differentiator
in securing new business in the competitive retail systems
market. The Group is working with both the latest JAVA
and Microsoft .NET technologies and has nearly 300
people committed to product development activity. 
This significant investment ensures that we remain at the
forefront of innovation in retail systems and so provide
our customers with real business benefits.
The strength of our product portfolio means that there
are significant opportunities for us to develop our
business in new markets. This is reinforced by the
international activities of many of our customers, 
who are looking to implement common systems across
their multi-national estates. We are currently rolling out
systems to a number of customers on a global basis,
such as Mont Blanc, ESPRIT and Deichman, and our
work on these projects has identified a number of very
exciting new market opportunities. In 2005 we will focus
on increasing our penetration into the USA and South
East Asia in particular. 
The Group’s strategy is based around the continued development of modern
and innovative products, which can be sold both to new customers and
throughout the Group’s existing blue chip customer base. Chairman’s Statement | 2004 Report & Accounts | Torex Retail Plc 05
Whilst we are confident of continued new business
successes, the sales cycle for large scale retail systems 
can be lengthy. Therefore in addition to our drive for
organic growth, we will continue to look for suitable
acquisitions to accelerate the overall growth of the 
Group by expanding our customer base, enhancing 
our product and service offering and entering new
geographic markets.
Current trading and outlook |
We are delighted with our results, which represent
excellent progress during the period both in terms of
financial performance and strategic development. We are
pleased to report that trading in the current period to
date has continued to exceed our expectations as the
integration of the Alphameric Retail Division is well ahead
of schedule. We will continue to integrate our activities in
the future as rapidly as possible, therefore maximising
economies of scale whilst providing a well established
platform for continued growth both organically and by
acquisition. The combination of innovation, technology,
customer base, geographic coverage and market
leadership places us in a unique position to capitalise on
the immense opportunities arising from the improving
market conditions. 
Dividends |
It is the Board’s intention to ensure that shareholders
benefit from the success of the Group with a progressive
dividend policy, whilst also balancing this with the
continuing investment needed to increase earnings.
Consequently the Board recommends a final dividend 
of 0.58p per ordinary share making a total for the period
of 0.68p. Subject to approval by the shareholders, 
the final dividend will be paid on 20 May 2005 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 22 April 2005.
Rob Loosemore
Chairman
30 March 2005
Our principal business units are
currently located in the United
Kingdom, Eire and northern
Europe and also in Malaysia.
