 5
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2
Review of the Business Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
OUR BUSINESS 
It’s reassuring to be able to report that, despite the continued tough 
retail climate, during the last 12 months Topps has both maintained 
its market leading position and delivered an overall increase in 
year-on-year sales for the first time since 2007. To achieve this 
we adopted a strategy which, at its core, focused on inspiring our 
customers, in their quest to enhance their homes and on improving 
the way we met the needs of our exacting trade customers. This 
approach enabled us to move from a position where like-for-like 
sales declined by 4.7% in the first half of our financial period to 
like-for-like growth of 3.5% during the second half.
The final trading results do, however, reflect the stagnating 
performance of the economy, a continuing low level of housing 
transactions and a lack of overall consumer confidence. Total 
revenue was £177.7 million (2011: £175.5 million) and with 
gross margin increased to 60.0% (2011: 59.6%) we were able 
to deliver an adjusted profit before tax of £12.8 million as well 
as reducing our net debt. Although this result was down from last 
year’s adjusted profit before tax of £13.9 million it was in line with 
market expectations and our internal projections.
In our previous Annual Report we committed ourselves to prudent 
cost management, further investment in key infrastructure, and 
achieving our target for growing the store estate. Good progress 
has been made on these targets enabling us to:
 a Deliver an underlying cost increase of just 2.5%, c.£2 million 
lower than inflationary and store space growth
 a Grow the overall store estate to 325 stores at year end 
(2011: 320) whilst simultaneously closing unprofitable units
 a Enhance the overall appearance of our stores
 a Convert 10 Tile Clearing House sites to the more profitable 
Topps format
 a Fully integrate our second Grove Park warehouse to enable more 
direct sourcing of product and thus secure additional margin gains
 a Further develop the awareness of Topps, as a brand, through 
national television advertising campaigns 
 a Increase our share of the tile market by a further 1% to 27%
MEETING THE NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS
These results could not have been achieved in the current retail 
environment if Topps had not maintained its absolute focus on the 
needs of our customers. Our objective of inspiring our customers 
whilst giving them top quality advice and guidance has once 
again resulted in Topps being rated in the top 10% of European 
Retailers when it comes to levels of customer satisfaction. This result 
is not only a tribute to the quality of our staff but it also underscores 
the importance we attach to our continuous on the job staff training 
and the development of our Company apprenticeship scheme.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank every one of our 
employees for the personal contribution they have made in helping 
to maintain Topps’ position as the UK’s number one tile retailer. 
Our people have also demonstrated their appreciation of the wider 
responsibilities that a business like Topps has by again making 
“Help for Heroes” the Company’s chosen charity. Their fundraising 
efforts have been inspiring and have included everything from local 
cake sales to climbing Mount Kilimanjaro.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This year we strengthened the depth and independence of the 
Board with the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors. 
In December 2011 Claire Tiney joined the Board, bringing with 
her a wealth of human resources experience gained from a retail 
career spent with Marks and Spencer, Mothercare, Woolworths 
and McArthur Glen. In January 2012 Andy King, currently CEO of 
Nottcuts and formerly with Boots and Bodyshop, also joined the 
Board. His arrival has brought to Topps strong strategic marketing 
and general management experience gained from his 
comprehensive retailing career.
These appointments have enabled us to further strengthen the 
Board’s committee structure. Alan White has now been appointed 
Senior Independent Director and chair of the Audit Committee. 
Claire Tiney has taken on the chair of the Remuneration Committee. 
Topps has maintained its position as the 
UK’s number one tile retailer by giving 
its customers inspiration for their home 
improvement projects, outstanding value for 
money and exceptional levels of service.
Michael Jack, 
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS 6 
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2
 1  2 
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
Chairman’s Statement continued
Andy King has been appointed as chair of the Nominations 
Committee and, in addition, has accepted responsibility for 
reviewing the Company’s Environmental and Corporate Social 
Responsibility policies. 
During the year, we also said goodbye to a very long serving 
member of our Board, when in April Nick Ounstead announced 
that he was to retire. During his 15 years with the business Nick 
made an outstanding contribution to Topps helping us move from 
a small unquoted business to today’s position as the UK’s number 
one tile retailer. On behalf of the Board I would like to record our 
sincere appreciation for all he did for Topps and send him our 
very best wishes for the future.
DIVIDEND
This year’s trading, and particularly our second half performance, 
has reinforced the Board’s view that the business is on a secure 
financial footing. In pursuit of our progressive dividend policy, we 
will be recommending to shareholders a final dividend of 0.75p 
per share (2011: 0.6p per share). This will cost £1.4 million 
(2011: £1.1 million). The shares will trade ex dividend on 
24 December 2012 and, subject to approval at the Annual 
General Meeting, the dividend will be payable on 31 January 
2013. This brings the total dividend for the year to 1.25p per 
share (2011: 1.1p per share), an increase of 13.6%.
OUR FUTURE 
Our results for the year have confirmed that in spite of challenging 
economic conditions Topps’ fundamental retail formula is sound. 
We recognise, however, that if we are to continue to grow our 
share of the market in this retail environment, innovative thinking 
will be required. In June we unveiled some new approaches to 
the marketing of our products in our Lab Store at Milton Keynes. 
We are continuing to evaluate these new approaches and they 
will help set the tone for the future appearance of our stores.
The commercial success of these new initiatives will be greatly 
assisted if UK economic policy can deliver a sustained 
improvement in consumer confidence. In addition, the success 
of any of the initiatives designed to stimulate the market for 
houses and their refurbishment will be of considerable value 
to the business.
For our part we will continue to inspire our customers’ home 
improvement plans whilst at the same time investing in our people 
– our greatest strength and most important asset. We also 
recognise the increasingly important role being played in retailing 
online and so we plan to further develop our web presence 
in order to make it even easier for our customers to research their 
purchases and find the combination of tiles and wood flooring 
that is just right for them.
By combining all these elements in a package that offers unrivalled 
in-store service, unparalleled ranges, industry leading technical 
advice and great value for money for both our trade and retail 
customers, we will have a strong platform upon which to build 
our success in the new financial year.
Michael Jack, 
Chairman
26 November 2012
 1 Metallic Random 
Mix Mosaic 
This glass mosaic with 
metallic effect pieces adds 
a dramatic effect to any 
modern scheme.
 2 Stratum 
Bang-on-trend, this 
textured tile is designed to 
be butted up together for 
a seamless finish.
