 5
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 1
Review of the business
Governance
Financial Statements
Other information
k
Our focus during the period has been on strengthening 
our market leading position by continuing to deliver 
outstanding service and excellent value, high quality 
products to our customers. We further upgraded and 
expanded our store estate, continued the evolution of 
the Topps Tiles offer and supported this with new 
marketing initiatives in-store, on television and online. 
In addition, we made some significant infrastructure 
investments across the business, which will benefit 
our future performance.
Prudent management of all costs remained a key focus. 
In addition we also reviewed a number of our retail 
processes to both further improve our proposition to 
customers and enhance financial performance.
The economic environment has continued to be 
challenging and, in particular, we saw a slowing in 
customer numbers during the second half of our financial 
period. That said, the business remains financially well 
positioned and the strong operational progress made 
during the year will enable us to continue to progress 
our growth plans.
t he Market 
Topps has seen its position as the UK’s leading tile 
retailer strengthen further during the period, with our 
share of the non-contract tile market growing to 26% 
(2010: 25%) (source: MBD). Our unwavering focus 
on offering our customers outstanding service and 
value enabled the Group to, once again, outperform 
the market.
Tile consumption in the UK continues to be low in 
comparison to the rest of Europe (roughly one third of the 
demand experienced in Northern Europe, source: MBD). 
However long-term growth, based on projections of an 
increase in housing stock and consumer usage of tiles, 
remains attractive. Against this background we believe 
there is potential for up to 400 Topps Tiles stores in 
the UK.
st Or e devel OPMent and exPansi On
With a continuing backdrop of challenging trading 
conditions our focus has been on optimising returns from 
the existing store estate by adding new stores selectively 
and targeting tactical re-sites of individual stores where 
this is supported by the local market opportunity.
Over recent years our store expansion strategy was 
realigned to reflect the deterioration in the economic 
environment. In the 2009/10 financial period we 
returned to growth in store numbers and this activity 
accelerated in the period under review. In the last 
12 months we opened 15 new stores and closed 
seven stores (of which three were relocations), resulting 
in a net increase of eight stores and completing the 
financial period with 320 stores. New store openings 
have performed well and we are very satisfied with the 
return on investment. In the year ahead we have plans 
in place to increase the size of the business by 
approximately five new stores.
We have continued with our programme of converting 
Tile Clearing House stores into the more profitable 
Topps Tiles format and have completed five in the 
financial period. Trading results from these conversions 
have been pleasing and a further 15 are planned for the 
year ahead. This will leave 16 Tile Clearing House stores 
which will function as clearance units for the Topps stores.
Our improved and expanded website was relaunched 
during the period. The response has been very 
encouraging, with record numbers of people visiting the 
site and staying online for longer periods than ever 
before. Our online presence is now an increasingly 
important factor in driving store footfall as a growing 
number of customers undertake the research phase of 
their project online before visiting our stores. To help them 
with this process we have introduced more inspirational 
room set photography, a greater variety of design ideas 
and a completely new market-leading interactive 
“visualiser”. This enables customers to choose from our 
extensive range of wall and floor tiles and model them 
into a variety of different room settings. 
Chief exeCuTiVe’s sTaTeMenT
Matthew Williams – c hief executive Officer
“LOOKING AHEAD, WE ExPECT ECONOMIC 
CONDITIONS WILL REMAIN DIFFICULT IN 2012,  
WITH CONSUMER BUDGETS AGAIN UNDER 
PRESSURE. OUR RESPONSE WILL BE TO TAKE FURTHER 
COST OUT OF THE BUSINESS, GROW MARGIN AND 
MAxIMISE SALES OPPORTUNITIES, WHILE MAKING 
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS THAT WILL POSITION 
THE BUSINESS FOR FUTURE GROWTH AS ECONOMIC 
CONDITIONS IMPROVE.”
14887_TT_AR11_p1-25.indd   5 07/12/2011   21:49 6
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 1
Chief exeCuTiVe’s sTaTeMenT
CONTINUED
We have also improved the site navigation and 
checkout procedures as well as updating the visual 
presentation to mirror the latest in-store experience. 
While we expect the primary role of the website to 
remain as a customer research tool, it is also playing 
a growing role as a direct sales channel, with online 
revenues now representing around 1.5% of sales 
(2010: 1%). We expect this to continue to grow and 
play an ever increasing role in our customer offer.
in Fr astructure
During the period we completed the construction of 
our second warehousing facility at our Leicestershire 
headquarters at a cost of c.£3 million. This warehouse 
is now fully operational and will form a key part of our 
logistics strategy over the coming years, giving us the 
operational capacity for up to 400 stores. In particular, 
the additional capacity will allow us to source more 
products direct from the manufacturer, decreasing the 
proportion sourced via third party distributors and 
delivering a gross margin benefit.
During the next financial period we will be implementing 
a new enterprise-wide information technology system 
of which the majority of the implementation will occur 
in the second half. This new system, which will add 
much greater functionality across a range of disciplines, 
will be a key enabler for a number of new processes 
and customer initiatives. The total cost of the system 
implementation will be approximately £1 million, the 
majority of which has been spent in this financial period.
c ust OMer service
As the UK’s leading tile specialist, the provision 
of exceptional levels of customer service is a key 
differentiator of the Topps Tiles brand.
Over the course of the last year we have changed the 
way we measure customer satisfaction and adopted the 
Net Promoter Scoring system. The score is calculated 
based on customers’ feedback to the question of how 
likely they are to recommend Topps Tiles to friends or 
colleagues. The scores are based on a numerical scale 
from 0–10 which allows customers to be split into 
promoters (9–10), passives (7–8) and detractors (0–6). 
The final score is based on the percentage of promoters 
less the percentage of detractors, thereby creating 
a possible range of –100% to +100%. Over the 
financial period we have scored 88.1% against this 
measure and consider this a very clear endorsement 
of our customer service ethic. The measure used 
for 2010 is not directly comparable.
Marketing, advertising 
and  sPOn sOr shi P
The evolution of the Topps Tiles brand continued during 
the period, in line with our greater emphasis on inspiring 
customers and reaching beyond our traditional customer 
base. Our product brochures and in-store merchandising 
have been repositioned to reflect customers’ increased 
focus on style as the principal driver in their purchase 
decision. This approach also provides consistency 
with our improved consumer website. Greater emphasis 
has also been given to the breadth of our ranges, 
with a greater focus on being able to attract high end 
customers, as well as retaining those attracted by our 
traditional value message.
£175.5m
Group revenue 
(53 weeks ended 2 October 2010: £182.4m)
£18.2m
Adjusted operations profit
1
(53 weeks ended 2 October 2010: £21.1m
1
)
l atest inkjet technologies enhance our range 
of stone-effect tiles.
r epresenting the latest in our large  
format tiles, this stylish range uses inkjet 
technologies to create a distinctive marble 
effect.
Marfil Bardiglio
1
 As explained on page 1
14887_TT_AR11_p1-25.indd   6 07/12/2011   21:49 Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 1
Review of the business
Governance
Financial Statements
Other information
k
7
o ur charming range of crackle glaze tiles 
introduces Vintage style to our brand, 
perfect for kitchens and bathrooms.
o ur new and exclusive Matrix brand  
offers a multitude of colours and  
tones in classic proportions.
st aFF devel OPMent
Our people are fundamental to fulfilling our key objective 
of delivering excellent customer service and this remains 
as important as ever. We continue to invest in their 
professional development through a sophisticated in-store 
e-learning system, which is developed and administered 
in-house, providing new courses and regular updates. 
During the year we rolled-out new programmes to equip 
all store staff with the product and technical knowledge 
to support our “customer inspiration” agenda, as well as 
specialist sales skills training. The initial results from this 
programme have been encouraging, with a greater 
consistency of standards already evident across the 
store estate.
All our staff are incentivised with competitive benefit 
packages and performance based rewards, and we 
encourage internal promotion. We anticipate that staffing 
levels will increase in line with the progressive expansion 
of the store base.
c u rrent t r ading and Outl OOk
In the first seven weeks of the new financial period, 
Group revenues, which are on a like-for-like basis, 
decreased by 6.9%.
Looking ahead, we expect economic conditions will 
remain difficult in 2012, with domestic budgets again 
under pressure. Our response will be to take further cost 
out of the business, grow margin and maximise sales 
opportunities, while making operational improvements 
that will position the business for future growth as 
economic conditions improve.
Matthew Williams
Chief Executive Officer
28 November 201 1
–2.0%
Like-for-like revenue 
(53 weeks ended 2 October 2010: +1.7%)
88.1%
Net Promoter Score 
(53 weeks ended 2 October 2010: n/a)
c hic c raquele Matrix Botanic
Marketing, advertising 
and  sPOn sOr shi P (c On tinued)
Over the course of the last financial period we increased 
our level of marketing expenditure by approximately 
£1 million in order to drive footfall and increase our 
market share. Television advertising and sponsorship has 
proved to be the most effective way to build consumer 
awareness of the Topps brand. In the early part of the 
period we ran a national weather sponsorship 
campaign with ITV and subsequent TV campaigns 
across a variety of national terrestrial and digital 
channels have also been successful in driving store 
footfall. To complement this we will continue to 
communicate the inspirational range through home 
interest magazines and PR. We are planning to sustain 
a similar level of marketing expenditure in the year 
ahead. A trade-focused campaign will run in parallel 
with the consumer campaign, in line with our strategy 
of securing a greater proportion of trade project spend. 
cOMM u nity
Topp’s commitment to its local communities through 
sponsorship and charitable activity remains strong. We 
aim to make positive contributions to those communities 
served by our stores, working closely with them to 
promote our primary aim of being a “good neighbour”.
We currently sponsor over 300 youth football teams 
nationwide, providing the teams with support, new kits 
and equipment.
Our work for the charity, Help for Heroes, which we 
have been supporting since 2008, has gone from 
strength to strength and we have already helped to raise 
over £160,000 for this very worthy cause. We also 
work with the British Association of Modern Mosaic 
(“BAMM”), sponsoring two national competitions and 
supporting the promotion of mosaic art in schools and 
community groups countrywide.
14887_TT_AR11_p1-25.indd   7 07/12/2011   21:49 Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 1
8
Meeting our customers’ desires 
to be inspired, our new style 
guides help customers identify 
looks and designs to suit their 
living space.
Ch oice
Great
TOPPS TILES FEATURES AN unri Valled range OF PRODUCTS WITH THE LATEST 
DESIGNS SOURCED FROM AROUND THE WORLD. WE CATER FOR EVERY BUDGET, 
IN ANY STYLE, FOR ANY ROOM AND IN ANY MATERIAL, FROM THE PERIOD 
BEAUTY OF NATURAL STONE AND REAL WOOD TO THE VERSATILITY OF MOSAICS 
AND THE CONTEMPORARY FEEL OF GLASS. AT TOPPS TILES WE REALLY DO HAVE 
Tiles for e Veryone.
14887_TT_AR11_p1-25.indd   8 07/12/2011   21:50 9
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 1
Review of the business
Governance
Financial Statements
Other information
k
Henley Warm
The new henley range, using inject technologies 
to replicate traditional encaustic design, is one 
of our most exciting new additions.
Vibia
Ch oice
Monaco Mosaic
Complementing our fantastic 
range of mosaics, this unique 
glass and marble mix is available 
in Pearl and graphite.
14887_TT_AR11_p1-25.indd   9 07/12/2011   21:50
