 7
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2
Review of the Business Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Looking ahead, we recognise that economic conditions are likely 
to remain uncertain throughout 2013. However I believe that we 
are operating in an environment where customers value Topps 
unique blend of outstanding product range, affordability, industry 
leading customer service and locational convenience. These key 
differentiators provide us with a platform to achieve both further 
growth and market share gains as we consolidate our position 
as the UK’s number one tile retailer.
Matthew Williams, 
Chief Executive Officer
We started this year knowing that the economic outlook would 
be challenging for businesses dependent on consumer confidence 
and discretionary spending. This cautious approach proved well 
founded as we experienced a decline in revenues during the first 
half. I am very pleased, however, with the way in which the 
business, and specifically our store colleagues, responded – 
arresting the decline and then returning the business to both 
like-for-like sales growth during the second half and overall sales 
growth across the year. 
We maintained our focus on strengthening our market leading 
position by continuing to deliver outstanding service and excellent 
value, high quality products to our customers. We further upgraded 
and expanded our store estate, strengthened our offer and 
supported this with new marketing initiatives in-store, on television 
and online. In addition, we have seen the first benefits of our 
investments in both stores and supply chain infrastructure. 
We remain focused on maintaining an efficient cost base but also 
recognise a continuing need to invest in key areas of the business 
as we move forwards. We have maintained our investment in 
marketing over the last year and will continue to ensure that our 
stores are sufficiently resourced to continue to offer the high 
standards of customer service we pride ourselves on.
THE MARKET 
Topps has seen its position as the UK’s leading tile retailer 
strengthen further during the period, with our share of the non-
contract tile market growing to 27% (2011: 26%) (source: Market 
and Business Development “MBD”). Our unwavering focus on 
offering our customers outstanding service and value enabled 
the Group to, once again, outperform the market.
Tile consumption in the UK continues to be low in comparison 
to the rest of Europe (roughly one-third of the demand experienced 
in Northern Europe, source: MBD). However, long-term growth, 
based on projections of an increase in housing stock and consumer 
usage of tiles, remains attractive.
STORE DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION
We have continued to focus on optimising returns from the existing 
store estate, adding new stores selectively where we believe strong 
opportunities exist and targeting tactical relocations of individual 
stores where this is supported by the local market opportunity.
In the last 12 months we opened 13 new stores and closed eight 
stores (of which one was a relocation), resulting in a net increase 
of five stores to bring the total at year end to 325 stores. These 
new stores have performed well and we remain very encouraged 
with the return on investment. In the year ahead we have plans in 
place to increase the estate by a further five new stores.
We have continued to invest across all parts of our store estate 
and this year have progressed a programme of “light touch” refits 
– spending around £20,000 per store on a range of minor 
improvements such as store signage, counters, floors, lighting, etc. 
18 stores have benefited from the programme this year and we 
intend to continue this into 2013.
We converted 10 further Tile Clearing House stores to the more 
profitable Topps Tiles format. Trading results from these conversions 
have been strong, on average generating c.25% more sales post 
the conversion. 
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
Chief Executive’s Statement 8 
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2
 1 
 3 
£1 77 .7 m
Group revenue 
(52 weeks ended 1 October 201 1: 
£1 75.5m)
We have continued to improve our online presence and see our 
website as very much a way of driving additional footfall to stores. 
We know increasing numbers of customers are undertaking the 
research phase of their project online but prior to actual purchase. 
However, most of our customers tell us that they still prefer to visit 
our store, physically see the products they are interested in and 
benefit from our expert in-store advice before they buy. To help 
them with this process we have focused our online efforts on 
incorporating more inspirational room set photography, a greater 
variety of design ideas and the integration of our market-leading 
interactive “visualiser” into the online experience. This enables 
customers to choose from our extensive range of wall and floor 
tiles and model them into a variety of different room settings. 
CUSTOMER SERVICE
As the UK’s leading tile specialist, the provision of exceptional 
levels of customer service is a key differentiator of the Topps Tiles 
brand. 
We measure customer satisfaction based on the “Net Promoter” 
scoring system. The net promoter score is calculated based on 
customers’ feedback to the question of how likely they are to 
recommend Topps Tiles to friends or colleagues. The scores are 
based on a numerical scale from 0–10 which allows customers to 
be split into promoters (9–10), passives (7–8) and detractors (0–6). 
The final score is based on the percentage of promoters less the 
percentage of detractors, thereby creating a possible range of 
–100% to +100%. Over the financial period our Net Promoter 
Score has averaged 90.6% (2011: 88.1%) – well within the 
top 10% of European retailers when it comes to customer service 
quality, which we consider to be a very clear endorsement of 
our customer service ethic.
PRODUCT OFFER
We continue to lead the market with our wide range of products to 
suit all tastes. We offer a core range of c.1,500 items which are 
available in stock to take away and a further c.3,000 items which 
are available to order on short lead times.
Our customers are choosing a wider variety of tiles than we have 
seen previously and are becoming increasingly adventurous in their 
tastes through greater use of colour and larger format tiles. 
Maintaining innovation in our product range is a key driver 
of success and on average we refresh around 20% of our core 
range each year. 
Our diverse product sourcing strategy is also a key driver of our 
business – we have a specialist team of buyers who are able 
to shop all over the world, and, combined with our operational 
flexibility, are able to bring product to market quicker than 
our competitors.
We have also reviewed our wood flooring offer and have 
completely relaunched the range from October 2012 featuring 
a broad offer that will cater for all our customers needs. 
MARKETING, ADVERTISING AND SPONSORSHIP
The evolution of the Topps Tiles brand continued during the period, 
in line with our greater emphasis on inspiring customers and 
reaching beyond our traditional customer base. Our product 
brochures and in-store merchandising have been repositioned to 
reflect customers’ increased focus on style as the principal driver in 
their purchase decision. This approach also provides consistency 
with our improved consumer website. More emphasis has also 
been placed on promoting the breadth of our ranges, with a 
greater focus on being able to attract high end customers, as well 
as retaining those attracted by our traditional value message. 
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
 2  9
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2
Review of the Business Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
 1 Diamante This supersized version of the popular 
Metro brick-effect tile adds a stylish dimension to 
any setting.
 2 Kula Splashback Part of our range of 
designer splashbacks, the Union Jack design is a 
real show stopper.
 3 Polished Porcelain & Expresso Marble 
Mosaic A feature panel of natural stone mosaics 
creates a stylish look with timeless appeal.
 4 Essentials & Hammered Pearl Mosaic 
For a more funky style, this Aqua pairing makes 
a bold statement.
£1 6.6m
Adjusted operations profit
2
(52 weeks ended 1 October 201 1: 
£1 8.2m)
–0.7%
Like-for-like revenue 
(52 weeks ended 1 October 201 1: –2.0%)
Over the course of the last financial period we have continued 
to invest around 2% of sales in marketing expenditure with the 
objectives of driving footfall and increasing market share. Television 
advertising and sponsorship has proved to be the most effective 
way to build consumer awareness of the Topps brand. This year 
we resumed our previously successful weather sponsorship and 
have featured on both Daybreak and Channel 4 News. We have 
also continued our campaign of communicating our inspirational 
agenda through home interest magazines and PR. Our trade 
specific campaigns have included a Talksport radio campaign and 
increased use of direct mail and email and these initiatives have 
been successful in increasing our overall share of trade business. 
COMMUNITY
Topps’ commitment to its local communities through sponsorship 
and charitable activity remains strong. We aim to make 
positive contributions to those communities served by our stores, 
working closely with them to promote our primary aim of being 
a “good neighbour”. 
We currently sponsor over 300 youth football teams nationwide, 
providing the teams with support, new kits and equipment. 
Our work for the charity Help for Heroes, which we have been 
supporting since 2008, has gone from strength to strength and 
we have already helped to raise over £200,000 for this very 
worthy cause. We also work with the British Association of Modern 
Mosaic (”BAMM”), sponsoring two national competitions and 
supporting the promotion of mosaic art in schools and community 
groups countrywide.
STAFF DEVELOPMENT
Our people are fundamental to fulfilling our key objective of 
delivering excellent customer service which remains as important 
as ever. We continue to invest in their professional development 
through a sophisticated in store e-learning system, which is 
developed and administered in-house, providing new courses 
and regular updates. In addition to this, under the Government’s 
vocational educational initiative we have seen in excess of 700 
colleagues successfully achieve nationally recognised qualifications 
in retail skills and retail management skills. 
All our staff are incentivised with competitive benefit packages 
and performance based rewards, and we encourage internal 
promotion. We anticipate that staffing levels will increase in 
the coming year in line with the progressive expansion of the 
store base.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
In the first seven weeks of the new financial period Group revenues 
increased by 1.0% on a like-for-like basis.
Looking ahead, whilst we recognise that there are a number 
of uncertainties facing our customers, we also believe that by 
continuing to deliver our core qualities of excellent customer service, 
great inspirational product ranges and outstanding overall value for 
money we can continue to deliver our primary goal of increasing 
market share and maximising returns for our shareholders. 
Matthew Williams, 
Chief Executive Officer
26 November 2012
REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS
 4 
2
 As explained on page 1 10 
Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
classic
Simply Plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 201 2 11
Review of the Business Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
For more inspiration why not pop into one of our stores or visit: 
toppstiles.co.uk
Classic style is a timeless choice that 
is quietly elegant, this perpetual look 
embodies form and function with muted 
primary hues and a neutral colour scheme.
Rina (Black) & Cora 
(Cotta & Beige) 
Earthy shades paired with neutral 
tones help to create the right 
classic balance.
Real and special-effect natural textures 
dominate the classic style, from 
Travertine and Marble to wood and 
stone-effect tiles & mosaics, there’s 
an abundance of choice.
Here to help 
Customer service lies at the heart of our 
philosophy, we go way beyond the tile 
to ensure our customers have everything 
they could possibly need.
