 5
CEO’s statement
I was extremely pleased with the trading performance of the Group in 2009. In 2007 and 2008 a number of cost cutting
measures were implemented which allowed the business to mitigate the downside of expected tough trading conditions.
Revenues increased year on year across both divisions in the Group. The reduction in the cost base combined with the increase
in revenues was responsible for the 344% increase in operating profit before tax and the delivery of the best trading
performance to date.
Publishing Division Overview
The Jewish News & Media Group is the umbrella brand for the group’s publishing businesses which include the Jewish News
Limited and TotallyJewish.com Limited.  
The group publishes on and offline media for the UKs Jewish community including:
• A weekly newspaper, ‘Jewish News’
• A quarterly lifestyle magazine, ‘Pulse’
• An annual Celebrations magazine, ‘TotallyJewishSimchas’
• A community portal, ‘www.TotallyJewish.com’
• An annual Wedding exhibition, www’TotallyJewishSimchas Live!’
Performance Highlights
• Revenues of £1,080,000, + 4.6% yr/yr.
• EBITDA of £252,000, +138% yr/yr.
• Operating Profit of £228,000, +192% yr/yr.
Operational Highlights
This division continued to consolidate its growing reputation as the number one Jewish media organisation in the UK.
In 2009 an events division was launched through a Wedding exhibition, TotallyJewishSimchas.com, at the Village Hotel, Elstree
Herts. The exhibition was attended by over 1,500 visitors and 80 paying exhibitors.
A series of Q&A sessions with high profile political leaders saw David Milliband and Boris Johnson face questions from over 150
paying Jewish News readers and in Q1 2010 Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague continued this high profile initiative.
An aggressive marketing campaign was launched which included the creation of a new media pack and website,
TheJNgroup.com as well as individual promotional websites for each of the two magazines in the divisions portfolio, Pulse
(www.JNPulse.co.uk) and TJ Simchas Magazine (www.TJSimchaMag.co.uk). A showreel promoting the work of the JN Media
Group is expected to be launched in Q2 2010.
Outlook for 2010
The aim is to continue to develop and expand the portfolio including the launch of an Education exhibition for the Jewish
community. Combined with the annual Wedding exhibition the short to medium term objective is to grow the revenue of the
event division for the events division so that it accounts for 10% of the publishing division’s revenues. Exhibitions are seen as
a growth area and provide a realistic cross selling opportunity to existing clients within the division.
The annual Celebrations magazine, TotallyJewishSimchas, will be published quarterly. The lifestyle magazine, Pulse, is already
published four times a year which will mean eight glossy magazines will be published in 2010.
newspaper • magazines • online • events
n
Accounts 2009  12/4/10  16:19  Page 7 CEO’s statement
(continued)
Totally Communications, “TC”, the group’s digital marketing business with three main service sectors:
1. Website and software design & development
2. Consultancy & systems integration
3. Online marketing
Performance Highlights
• Revenues of £628,000, +3% yr/yr.
• EBITDA of £210,000, +12% yr/yr.
• Operating Profit of £205,000, +11% yr/yr
Operational Highlights
TC were delighted to have won a multi-agency pitch for celebrity led charity Global Cool’s new website, launched at 2009
London Fashion Week.
During the period under review TC was selected by JP Morgan to construct a significant system for a mentoring charity, African
Caribbean Diversity and other notable new account wins included a new website for the Barbarians Rugby Club and a high
profile online proposition for the Ghurkha Welfare Trust and their Debt of Honour campaign which was spearheaded by Joanna
Lumley.
Significant research and development was undertaken to develop the ‘next generation’ of the division’s proprietary website
content management system, ”Pelorous”. The current in-house content management system underpins 80 individual
applications and is used daily by over 500 users. Existing users will be migrated onto Pelorous over the next 12 months and
all new clients will have their website developed through the system. This will give the division an improved competitive
advantage in tenders by deskilling the development process and reducing the time taken to deliver projects
Outlook for 2010
Management expect to achieve organic growth in this division in 2010 through the launch of its new search engine marketing
division, RISE Digital, www.risedigital.com. The development of the RISE brand and communication materials was undertaken
in Q4 in 2009 and launched in Q1 2010.
6
Digital Marketing Division Overview
Accounts 2009  12/4/10  16:19  Page 8
