 Key events included the signing of the important Shared Decision Making
(SDM) contract with the NHS in January and the sale of our print media
business in May. However, more important even than these significant
milestones, was the assembly of a strong team of expert professionals
and corporate partners.
During the latter part of 2012 and early 2013, we raised approximately
£1.1 million (net of expenses) of capital for the Company through the
placing and exercise of warrants. This fundraising will help us to meet the
ongoing challenges of our enhanced contractual responsibilities. As we win
new contracts we will seek to ensure that the strength of our balance sheet
keeps pace with the strength of our market success. We expect the real
benefits of the repositioning of Totally Plc to be reflected in earnings
performance from 2014 onwards.
Our management team, expertly led by Wendy Lawrence as CEO, is currently
submitting proposals for a number of contracts which, if awarded, will
enable us to leverage our SDM experience. Wendy was formally appointed
to the Board on 2 May 2013. With her previous NHS and private sector
experience we are very pleased to have her as our CEO. With healthcare
systems throughout the world battling to adapt to serious financial
constraints, we believe that the cost savings and enhanced health
outcomes we have demonstrated through our programmes to date, will
mean our solutions will not only be in demand by Clinical Commissioning
Groups (CCGs) and other health organisations in the UK, but also by
healthcare providers internationally. We hope to be able to make positive
announcements in this regard over the summer months.
By providing patients with clear and accurate information to support them
through their care pathways, we intend to make an important contribution to
society. We believe that by empowering patients with timely and trusted
information, Totally’s healthcare solutions can play an important part in the
therapeutic process. Our success in these endeavours will, I believe, lead to
significant increases in value for shareholders and stakeholders alike. 
Dr. Michael Sinclair
Non-Executive Chairman
21 June 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
02
2012 marked the transformation of Totally Plc into a serious participant in the Healthcare
IT market, maximising the digital expertise within our Totally Communications business
to extend and strengthen the capabilities of Totally Health.
