 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
03
Totally Health
At the end of January 2012, Totally Plc signed its first NHS contract to
provide 36 disease-specific Personal Decision Aids (PDAs) and associated
Mobile Apps for iPhone and Android handsets. It was also commissioned
to provide a CRM database to underpin the Shared Decision Making
programme and health coaching for all users of the service. This was an
initial one-year contract that ran through to mid-March 2013 for all
deliverables. Excellent progress was made during 2012, with the formation
of our Medical Advisory Groups, comprising national clinical leaders across
specific disease areas. Work continues with NHS England to secure a way
forward with their Shared Decision Making Programme
2012 also saw us sign of our first NHS contract for the Management of
Long Term Conditions, a critical issue and a major priority for the UK’s health
service. The initial programme has seen us begin work with a group of COPD
(Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) patients, to provide them with
telecare (via another supplier) together with Health Coaching services
from Totally Health. Early results from this programme are very positive.
Evidence shows that the initiative has not only yielded significant cost-
savings for the Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs), but it has also had
a tremendously positive impact on the health outcomes of the patients
involved. Unplanned/emergency admissions to hospital have reduced
significantly for this group of patients and their condition has been much
better managed, even through the winter months, which are traditionally
when COPD patients struggle most.
Totally Communications
Totally Communications delivered services to more than 50 clients,
many of them with multiple contracts for diverse services.
Key highlights include:
NHS Shared Decision Making Programme
36 Mobile Apps for both iPhone and Android handsets
Shared decision making application and associated services
Interactive Website for all Personal Decision Aids (36 in total for 2012)
SANDY CRM system
Health Foundation
Website redesign
Design and delivery of mobile website
Research scan database integration
Totally Plc entered 2012 with two clear aims; to continue its development and growth
in the healthcare sector, and to build upon its established reputation as a leading
provider of digital technologies. Throughout the year, these two individual Group
companies, Totally Health and Totally Communications (with Rise Digital), worked
collaboratively to deliver innovative solutions to NHS and private sector organisations,
not-for-profit organisations and charities. Website build for self-management support resource centre 
Website build for Shared Decision Making resource centre 
Email marketing services integration
United Synagogue 
Update to membership system to integrate child/teen
membership services
Development of a front end, self-service portal for adult,
child/teen members
Development of back-end events/trip management system,
fully integrated reporting and communications tools to service
adult and child/teen members
Operations
2012 was also about building capacity and extending capability. Throughout
the year, we continued to expand our team of experts to support sustainable
growth across the Group and to ensure we consistently provide the optimal
team to deliver a top quality offering to the markets in which we operate.
We have strengthened our management teams:
Andrew Margolis is now Chief Operating Officer for Totally Plc
Ben Gritz is Managing Director for Totally Communications
Donald Baladasan is our Finance Director
Our clinical team continues to grow in strength as new service models
are planned and developed.
Our Bids team has gone from strength to strength and processes are in
place to ensure we are able to respond to all queries efficiently and
effectively. This work has continued into 2013.
2012 was certainly an exciting year for all concerned - but I believe that this
was only the beginning of what promises to be an exciting phase of growth
and development for the Company.
Financial Review
The Company’s strategic repositioning translated into revenue growth of
86% in 2012 to £1.62m (2011:£0.87m). Totally Health contributed
£0.77m of which £0.71m related to delivery of the NHS SDM contract
and £0.06m related to the pilot COPD health coaching contract for
NHS Leicester. Totally Communications contributed £0.85m (net of
intra-group revenue).
The operating loss for the year was £(0.56)m and the contribution split
across the Group was Totally Communications £0.03m, Totally Health
£(0.26)m and Totally Plc £(0.33)m. The losses in Totally Health reflected the
infrastructure improvement costs including ISO accreditation and business
development. These costs were incurred to strengthen the Group’s ability to
win and deliver further contracts.
Group operating cash utilised during the year was £0.14m this included the
covering of all Plc costs. In addition the Group undertook a warrant
conversion funding round which generated net cash of £0.5m in December
2012. The second part of this funding generated a further £0.5m in January
2013. The funding proceeds were used to finance the costs incurred in
repositioning the Company and to provide working capital. The current cash
balance is approximately £0.15m and there are no bank borrowings.
As referred to above we are pleased that there are a number of significant
new business opportunities under negotiation, certain of which we hope to
be able to announce in the near term. The recent transition from Primary
Care Trusts (PCTs) to CCGs in April has resulted in considerable internal
reorganisation within the NHS. In particular for Totally this has affected the
management of budgets and the contract decision making process with the
new NHS bodies.
Totally is confident that, as the new CCGs and other NHS bodies bed down,
the award of contracts will accelerate in the second half of 2013. In the
short term this has resulted in a reduction in expected revenues for the
Group in the current financial year but the Board is confident that it has
sufficient working capital at present to operate the business going forward
should the expected contracts and contracted revenue crystallise in line
with internal projections. Having said that, the Board is exploring options to
strengthen the Company’s balance sheet over the next few months, one of
which may be through the issue of new equity to ensure that the Company
has adequate resources to implement its business plan in full and fully
capitalise on the exciting opportunities that the Company has ahead of it.
I would like to thank everyone involved with the delivery of every aspect
of every area of the Company and for their dedication and commitment
during 2012.
Wendy Lawrence
Chief Executive Officer
21 June 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
04
