 bus In Ess
REVIEW
ChIEf ExECutIVE Off ICER’s REpORt
Annual Report 2013  5 T ower Resources plc
tower is entering a very exciting period, the result of a huge 
amount of work by our dedicated team.
l ast year we set out several aims: 
•  ensuring our Namibian well was funded and ready  
to be drilled;
•  adding additional near-term high-potential drilling 
upside;
•  expanding our early stage exploration portfolio. 
As set out in this Annual Report, we have achieved these aims 
through two fund raises in some of the most difficult markets 
I have experienced, and completed the purchases of Wilton 
Petroleum and Rift Petroleum, principally for shares, as well 
as securing the conditional farm-in to Block 2B onshore Kenya 
and potential entries into Cameroon and Madagascar. We 
have other new ventures in the pipeline too. The Company’s 
strategy is demonstrably being implemented and it will 
continue unchanged. 
There has been a step-change in activity. We are about to 
spud the Welwitschia-1 well offshore Namibia, testing the first 
of three huge structures on Licence 0010, to be followed by a 
potential play opening well onshore on Block 2B Kenya later in 
the year. As such we have one of the most exciting near-term 
drilling campaigns of any UK listed company. 
We have also assembled a high-impact, diverse pan-African 
exploration portfolio with a range of value-creating activity and 
milestones identified over the mid-term. Each of our assets has 
to have the individual potential to deliver substantial upside for 
our investors. The activities and news-flow of other companies 
in our portfolio areas should also help to de-risk our assets 
and potentially add to our considerable upside. We intend to 
continue to build out our portfolio selectively, leveraging the 
strength of our team and sustaining our present momentum.
h IGh Qual Ity t Eam buIlt
Of course, these developments have required the assembly 
of a multi-disciplinary team, cost–effective and dedicated. 
Our team is highly experienced in developing high-potential 
exploration portfolios and in evaluating and managing assets. 
This can be seen in the speed with which Tower’s portfolio has 
been expanded. 
A tremendous amount of work goes “sight unseen”. The 
sourcing, evaluation and filtering of the over 80 opportunities 
seen in the last 15 months takes an enormous amount of time 
and the attractive opportunities often end with no deal and 
leave no external footprint. The development of our portfolio 
has been rather intermittent in reporting terms but the work 
that underpins it has been relentless. While this might be 
frustrating at times for shareholders, you can see that the hard 
work and stringent quality criteria that we apply, has paid off 
for Tower with the rapid transformation from a single near-
term asset into a diversified high-quality, funded portfolio.  
st Ra t EGy bEInG d El IVEREd
This has only been possible with great teamwork. I wish to 
thank the Board, our advisers, our management and staff, 
our consultants and our shareholders for their enthusiasm, 
support, dedication and vision.
th E futu RE: 2 f IRm WElls ,  
busy pan -af RICan pORtf Ol IO
We have an exciting year ahead.  Our acreage is some of the 
most prospective in Africa. The anticipated activity schedule 
on page 2 shows how busy we will be with our existing 
assets, and this Annual Report sets out these activities and 
assets in further detail. We have assembled a diversified 
asset portfolio, in highly prospective hydrocarbon regions 
and at various stages of development, which should deliver 
numerous operational milestones in the coming months and 
years. We intend to continue this portfolio development and 
diversification. 
Our focus will remain on Africa, where some of the largest 
discoveries have been made in recent years. Although it is a 
competitive region, there are great opportunities for nimble 
and entrepreneurial companies like Tower. While we all 
recognise the risks in our industry, the upside on success can 
be transformational and we have the necessary ingredients to 
succeed.
Graeme t homson
Chief Executive Officer
22 April 2014
