 4  Annual Report 2013 T ower Resources plc
Cha IRman ’s stat EmEnt
bus In Ess 
REVIEW
REVIEW
2013 and the first few months of 2014 have been busy and 
rewarding for our company. a t this time last year , we had laid 
the foundations for revitalising the company by recruiting a 
new management team led by Graeme thomson, and we 
had increased our share in the n amibian licence 0010 to 30% 
as part of a rcadia’s farm-out process and which also brought 
Repsol aboard as operator. 
We knew that this would require raising further funds for our 
drilling commitment, whether by farming out ourselves later or 
issuing further equity, and we also wanted to build a pipeline 
of new opportunities to build further value for shareholders, 
especially in the event of disappointment in Namibia. Graeme 
brought Nigel Quinton and Andy Matharu onto the team in early 
2013, and we subsequently supplemented their efforts with an 
exclusive arrangement to use the P.D.F. Geoscience group to 
support our business development work.
 
As the year progressed, we found ourselves in a difficult 
environment for fundraising, which was not helped by the results 
of HRT’s and Chariot’s drilling programmes to the south of us 
in Namibia. Although HRT’s wells encountered mature source 
rocks and Chariot obtained useful information on reservoir sands, 
neither made a commercial discovery. The reasons for this had 
no bearing on the quality of our own prospects, but sentiment 
regarding Namibia was affected in an already poor funding 
market, and we were obliged to raise some funds during the 
summer at a very low price of 1. 1 25p per share. We were keen to 
ensure that shareholders who preferred to stump up cash rather 
than being diluted had the opportunity to do so, which is why we 
combined the placing with an open offer so that no shareholder 
would be denied the opportunity to participate. Achieving a 
successful placing in those circumstances was already a credit 
to the team, and we began looking for a farm-out partner for 
Namibia in order to avoid issuing further equity at such prices.
 
During the second half of the year we began to get traction 
on a range of new ventures, after reviewing more than eighty 
distinct opportunities. We were the preferred bidder in a tender 
in Cameroon for a block whose work programme we are now 
negotiating, and our acquisition of Wilton Petroleum brought 
us an entry point to Madagascar. We also looked at various 
Kenyan opportunities, settling on the Block 2B opportunity with 
Taipan. As our share price improved around the year-end, we 
also began to reconsider the relative merits of a farm-out or 
equity funding, but we decided that shareholder interests were 
best served by keeping our options open as long as possible. 
We also began to explore the opportunity to acquire the Rift 
assets in South Africa and Zambia. In the end both the placing of 
shares at 3.5p, to raise $32 million, and the Rift acquisition came 
together in March and April 2014, after the year-end, and this 
also allowed us to go forward with the Kenya 2B farm-in. So we 
have had an extraordinary few months after the year-end, but 
the transactions we have completed are the result of a lot of hard 
work in 2013 as well. 
a busy y EaR 
st Rat EGy
Our strategy remains unchanged: to identify high-impact 
exploration opportunities and exploit them for our 
shareholders before their value is fully realised in the wider 
market. I believe we have demonstrated during the past 
year that plenty of such opportunities exist in addition to the 
excellent opportunities that we are currently exploring with 
Repsol on License 0010.
GOIn G f ORWa Rd
It is obvious that a huge amount depends on the outcome 
of the Welwitschia-1 well that is starting to be drilled as this 
report is released. If the well is successful then we will face 
a number of choices regarding how best to move forward 
both with the Welwitschia structure and the other prospects 
on the licence; if the well is not successful then we may face 
even more choices, depending on what exactly the well 
reveals. Whatever we find, you may rest assured that we will 
apply our usual principles of analysis and value to achieve 
the best outcome we can for shareholders. And whatever 
we find, I remain excited about the future for Tower with the 
management team and portfolio of assets that our company 
now enjoys.
Jeremy a sher
Chairman
22 April 2014
