 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 | 07
The strategic steps taken to reposition the UK business in 
the latter half of 2005 have lowered the cost base, improved
service margins and built solid foundations based upon
improved business fundamentals. In the UK we are now fully
focused upon delivering our strategy through the three new
business units and have experienced growing interest in our
value proposition. In recent months Ford, Peugeot, Mitsubishi,
Isuzu and DaimlerChrysler have launched high profile
marketing campaigns associating Smartnav with their
brands. We believe this demonstrates their faith in the unique
features and quality of service we can deliver .
In the USA, Teletrac continues to perform well and we expect
continued growth in this market as we expand operations and
benefit from added value services.
Overall, we are confident that the progress made in the
second half of 2005 will continue into 2006 and beyond.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Trading improved significantly during the course of the year .
After a profit of just £0.028m in the first half, Trafficmaster
recorded full year operating profits before non-recurring
items of £1.8m (2004: £2.5m).
Revenues for the full year increased 16% to £42.3m compared
to £36.6m in 2004 driven by a 23% revenue increase in
Teletrac and a 10% increase in UK revenues.
Net borrowings at year end were £4.7 million compared with
£3.8 million at 30 June 2005. Cash balances were £1.4 million
at 31 December 2004. 08 | TRAFFICMASTER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 
USA OPERATIONS
Teletrac
Teletrac continued to increase revenues during the year,
recording a 23% rise in 2005 to £20.6 million (2004: £16.8
million) and increased operating profits 17% from £2.9 million
to £3.4 million. Teletrac is the second largest provider of local
fleet tracking and management services, through its
FleetDirector product, in the United States and contributes
approximately half of Trafficmaster’s sales. At the end of 2005
over 50,000 vehicles were being monitored each day, across
the USA and Teletrac’s data centres handled over 11 million
transactions per day.
Teletrac continued to grow its sales and service presence
during the year with 120 direct Sales and Service personnel in
the USA serving over 25 cities. 
Tim Van Cleve, Chief Operating Officer of Teletrac Inc, leads
our efforts in this area. Tim has worked in the fleet tracking
business for over 10 years and has operated at all levels in
the Sales and Operations of the business. 
As Teletrac develops, we are increasing our focus on securing
larger accounts with major vehicle fleets. The Major Accounts
team continues to make good progress with significant wins
in 2005, including GCS, a division of Ecolab a Fortune 500
company and Builders FirstSource, a $2bn USA building
products company. We have a strong pipeline of potential 
new business for 2006.
Teletrac continues to enhance its product offerings to improve
its position at the high-value high-feature end of the growing
fleet tracking market. In line with this strategy, we will be
launching Smartnav, fully integrated with FleetDirector, 
in the USA fleet market in the first half of this year .  
STRATEGIC REVIEW OF UK OPERATIONS
Following my appointment in July 2005, we undertook a
strategic review of the business to improve Trafficmaster’s 
UK performance. 
The key actions from the review are:
• to increase our emphasis on business partnerships and
move away from consumer marketing;
• to focus on the delivery of a profitable subscription services
business and;
• to integrate the development of our market-leading 
in-vehicle products and off-board services technologies.
As a result, three new business units have been created 
in the UK: Trafficmaster In-Vehicle Products, 
Trafficmaster Services and Trafficmaster Technologies. 
The new strategy has already delivered improvements in 
our product positioning by focusing on our most effective
channels including OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer)
standard fit sales. 
We have improved productivity, improved supplier terms and
eliminated costs that do not support the revised strategy. 
As a result, we have improved service margins and 
generated cost savings. 
We continue to make good progress in our technology
partnership opportunities.
Jimmie Schindewolf, P .E. Director of Public Works for the City of Houston
“We’re seeing impressive reductions in response times for area residents needing time critical
service. The inspectors using Teletrac are working more efficiently because they no longer have to
manually input the data needed for status reports.”
Teletrac enables Houston’s Public Works to dispatch the closest drivers to area residents
needing immediate help YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 | 09
Trafficmaster In-Vehicle Products
Trafficmaster In-Vehicle Products concentrates on the 
sale of Smartnav, our award winning satellite navigation 
and integrated traffic information system, and Trackstar
hardware, our stolen vehicle tracking system. Revenues
increased by 8% in 2005 to £11.7 million (2004: £10.8 million).
The operating profit before non-recurring items for this
division reduced to £1.3 million from £2.2 million, and from
£2.2 million to £0.2 million after non-recurring items, due to
increased marketing costs in the first half of 2005.
Pat Gallagher, Director of In-Vehicle Products, has been in
the In-Vehicle Products industry for over 20 years having 
worked at a senior level in Cobra and Renault before 
joining Trafficmaster in 1999.
In-Vehicle Products strategy is to concentrate our efforts on
“business to business” relationships and create a simplified
product proposition to our OEM partners. This is proving
productive. In the last six months, we have significantly
enhanced our relationships with our OEM partners and have
generated standard fit programmes with Ford, Peugeot,
Isuzu, Subaru and DaimlerChrysler . Mitsubishi, one of our
largest OEM customers in 2005, has extended their contract
throughout 2006 to fit Smartnav as standard on a number of
models in its range including the new L200.
Each of these OEM partners has supported brand-building
campaigns for Smartnav. We have therefore seen the highest
level of marketing effort in Trafficmaster’s history – including
significant campaigns featuring a mix of TV, radio and press
by Peugeot, Ford, Isuzu, Mitsubishi and DaimlerChrysler . 
Smartnav is currently primarily sold with new car purchases –
a market of some 2.4 million cars per annum in the UK, and
is showing good penetration in this market.  As a result we
expect Smartnav to increase its penetration in the wider car
market, which currently totals around 26 million in the UK, 
in future years. 
Trackstar, our market leading GPS stolen vehicle tracking
system, continues to grow in a stable market. 
One of our key strengths in the market is flexibility. 
Our in-vehicle platform can deliver class leading services 
for navigation, stolen vehicle tracking, safety camera warning,
emergency/breakdown call, usage based insurance and
traffic information services. This allows Trafficmaster 
In-Vehicle Products to tailor unique propositions for the OEM.
Mark McKenna, Head of Marketing at SEAT
“Out of all the satellite navigation systems on the market, Smartnav offers a truly comprehensive
driving solution. Not only does it stop you from getting lost, using up-to-date mapping stored on
Trafficmaster’s central computers, but it dynamically guides you around traffic problems and tracks
your car if it is stolen. It is a great addition to our cars.”
Smartnav fitted as standard on the SEAT Leon FR and Leon Cupra R 
from July 2005 to December 2005 Trafficmaster Services
Trafficmaster Services is focused on generating enhanced
recurring revenue from each user of Trafficmaster’s products.
During the year, revenues increased by 12% to £10.1 million
(2004: £9.0 million). The division reported an operating profit
of £0.2 million (2004: £0.5 million) with increased marketing
costs in the first half and reductions in legacy traffic 
revenues offset by increases in Smartnav 
and Trackstar service revenues.
Craig Blount, Director of Trafficmaster Services, has 20 years
experience in subscription services and marketing having
worked in various General Manager positions at The AA
before joining Trafficmaster in 2000.
Trafficmaster Services provides the widest range of traffic 
and vehicle related services available from one source in the
market today. We are seeing strong uptake in our Safe Speed
and Trackstar value added services on the Smartnav platform
with over 40% of our customers signing up for these options.
We are in a strong position to drive this penetration through
our constant contact with customers and our ability to provide
trial services to users.
In the second half of the year we have made significant
progress on service operating margins, reducing our average
cost per customer going forward by over 20%. We continue to
maintain excellent levels of customer satisfaction,
underpinning our belief that Trafficmaster’s range of services
meets customer needs.
Trafficmaster Services is also responsible for our traffic
information business. The launch of our RDS TMC services 
at the start of 2005 has been extremely successful in both the
automotive and portable markets. In its first year of service
contracts have been put in place with Audi, Honda, Alpine,
Garmin, Destinator, Wayfinder and Navigon. 
A significant proportion of revenues both in the UK 
and USA now come from recurring subscriptions and sale 
of information. 
Paul Ormond Head of Press & PR at Honda
“Honda has a culture that demands quality in both its own products and those of its suppliers. 
In our evaluation we concluded that the accuracy, timeliness and quality of the traffic data provided
by Trafficmaster through its RDS TMC service was ideally suited to the needs of our customers. 
The traffic data will benefit our customers as it will be incorporated into our satellite navigation
systems and used to help drivers avoid traffic jams as they are navigated to their destination.”
In May 2005 Honda selected Trafficmaster’s RDS TMC traffic information to be available on all
Honda vehicles fitted with satellite navigation as standard
10 | TRAFFICMASTER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 | 11
Trafficmaster Technologies
Trafficmaster Technologies is responsible for developing new
markets and new applications for our technologies such as
Usage Based Insurance and vehicle diagnostics.  
Stuart Berman, Director of Trafficmaster Technologies, 
is leading our efforts in this area. Stuart has been involved in
advanced technology businesses, at director level, for 10
years having previously worked at Demon Internet. 
Our relationships with our partners in these areas are
progressing well. The Transport for London initiative is now
providing live traffic information based on every vehicle
entering and leaving the Congestion Zone – we believe,
providing motorists in London with the best traffic information
available in the world today. All of our products will benefit
from this including Smartnav and RDS TMC traffic services. 
Trafficmaster is ideally placed to provide strategic technology
to a wide range of organisations based on its pioneering
technology developments in in-vehicle products, traffic
information and off-board services for vehicle tracking,
navigation and mobile resource management. These
technologies and capabilities are finding new markets,
partners and opportunities.
OUTLOOK
The strategic steps taken to reposition the UK business in 
the latter half of 2005 have lowered the cost base, improved
service margins and built solid foundations based upon
improved business fundamentals. Actions already taken will
result in annualised cost savings in excess of £2 million in
2006. We are now fully focused upon delivering our strategy
through the three new business units in the UK and already
have experienced growing interest in our value proposition. 
In recent months Ford, Peugeot, Mitsubishi, Isuzu and
DaimlerChrysler have launched high profile marketing
campaigns associating Smartnav with their brands. 
We believe this demonstrates their faith in the unique
features and quality of service we can deliver .
In the USA, Teletrac continues to perform well and we expect
continued growth in this market as we expand operations 
and benefit from added value services.
Overall, we are confident that the progress made in the
second half of 2005 will continue into 2006 and beyond.
Tony Eales, Chief Executive of Trafficmaster Plc
Salim Baltagi, Vice President of Logistics for Builders FirstSource
“We were looking for a very broad set of fleet management and driver measurement tools. We were
seeking an integrated system that would allow us to monitor engine idle times, provide maintenance
alerts and DOT report preparation plus allow us to monitor driver activities such as start, stop, and
on-break times as well as vehicle speed. Improving vehicle and driver security were also concerns.”
Teletrac enables Builders FirstSource to better co-ordinate the on-demand routing changes
that occur during the day and improve response times 
