 YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 | 05
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Your board is pleased to report significantly improved
performance for Trafficmaster during the year following a 
reorganisation of our UK operations and continued strong
growth of our business in the USA.
Teletrac has continued the expansion of its fleet management
business. The growing recognition of the quality of our
offering by major account customers has been particularly
noteworthy; we have been focusing on this segment and are
hopeful of further success in the coming year . 
The reorganisation of our UK activities and the focus on
business partnerships, described in more detail in the Chief
Executive’s Statement, has had a successful start. We are
particularly pleased with the manufacturer take up of our
revised proposition. In recent months Ford, Peugeot,
Mitsubishi, Isuzu and DaimlerChrysler have launched
standard fit offers backed by high profile marketing
campaigns associating Smartnav with their brands. 
We believe this demonstrates their faith in the unique
features and quality of service we can deliver .
Much of the progress in the past year has come from
exploiting the depth of Trafficmaster's technology and 
market know-how by more effectively leveraging the 
talented management team employed within the group.
Under the leadership of Tony Eales, our new streamlined
flatter management structure has deployed our most
experienced executives running clearly defined elements 
of the business that also have a clear fit with their 
respective personal strengths.
Having such "square pegs in square holes", combined with a
reduced cost base has repositioned the group to take strong
advantage of the opportunities now before us. We expect the
year ahead to build on the progress already achieved and your
board looks forward to reporting tangible evidence of our
continued progress during the year ahead.
Colin Walsh, Chairman of Trafficmaster Plc 06 | TRAFFICMASTER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
Steve Lambert, Manager Product Planning and Pricing at Peugeot Motor Company Plc
“Smartnav was our first choice satellite navigation system. With its real time traffic
information that automatically guides you around the delays and up-to-date mapping to 
take you on the right roads, integrated safety camera warnings and stolen vehicle tracking it
provides real benefits to our customers. We believe Smartnav complements the 407 brand, 
in that it provides advanced technology that makes driving more cost effective, enjoyable 
and stress free.” 
Smartnav fitted as standard on Peugeot 407 vehicles from November 2005
Lawrence Good, Sales Director at Chrysler
“Smartnav has already been available as an accessory on all of Chrysler’s vehicles but we
wanted to take it one step further and decided to offer it as standard on the Chrysler Crossfire.
Smartnav has the advantage of offering simplicity combined with outstanding functionality.” 
Smartnav fitted as standard on the Chrysler Crossfire in a campaign launched in March 2006
