 NEW CHALLENGES_NEW DIRECTIONS
PAGE SEVEN
Chief Executive’s Statement
Financial Results
The strategy of concentrating on
our four core areas - satellite
navigation, fleet management,
traffic information, and stolen
vehicle tracking, has resulted in
substantially improved results for
the period.
Revenues grew to £36.6 million
during the year representing an
increase of 19.7% over the 2003
figure of £30.6 million. This was
based on strong growth in
Smartnav revenues up 159%, and
Teletrac revenues up 27.6% in USA
dollars and 14.2% on a Sterling
basis. Revenues in the second half
of the year grew to £19.6 million
from £17.0 million in the first half.
Group operating profit from
continuing operations for the year
was £2.4 million, as compared with
a like for like profit of £0.5 million in
2003, after adjusting for the net
exceptional credits of £2.1m. Better
than anticipated trading in Q4
resulted in the operating profit
being ahead of the £2.2 million
referred to in our trading statement
of 17 December 2004. The supply
problem concerning Touchscreens
referred to in that statement was
resolved in December and we have
been able to meet customer
demand for this product since then. 
Profit before tax, which includes
£2.3 million relating to the discount
achieved on early settlement of the
Teletrac bonds, grew to £4.8 million
(2003: £550,000).
During the year we pre-purchased
£2.5 million of key components for
the new low cost in-vehicle unit to
secure economies of scale, as well
as investing £3.5 million in capital
expenditure and repaid the legacy
Teletrac bonds, which carried a
coupon rate of 9% at a cost of £3.5
million net of the share placing. As
a result, cash balances and short
term deposits fell to £1.4 million
from £7.3 million at December
2003. This level of investment will
not be repeated in 2005, during
which we expect to be cash
generative. 
At our forthcoming AGM we will ask
shareholders to consider
resolutions to apply for permission
to create distributable reserves by
writing off accumulated deficit
against the share premium account. Operational Results
Smartnav – 
Satellite Navigation Business
Smartnav sales tripled in 2004 to 27,600
and we ended the year with 22
manufacturers recommending the
product to their customers. Smartnav has
been fitted as standard on 11 models; this
is an important factor driving further
growth in the coming year . The Rover 75
standard fitment, whilst originally a
landmark deal for Trafficmaster, will not
now produce the results originally
envisaged in 2005 due to the
administrators being called into MG
Rover . As announced, the debt to
Trafficmaster was circa £540,000 at the
commencement of the administration.
The successful launch of the Touchscreen
product, which allows users to enter
routes via a small dashboard fitted
screen, was a significant factor in our
sales growth.
The increase in unit sales has led to an
increase in Smartnav operations and in
January we delivered over 350,000 routes
to our customers, nearly three times the
volume delivered in January 2004.
The satellite navigation market itself
developed substantially in the second half
of last year . Whilst we saw increasing
competition from hand held and PDA
based units, the growth of car based
navigation systems continued. We believe
Smartnav took a market share of over
20% of new units from a standing start
just 18 months earlier . 
We have continued to enhance the
product with numerous additional
features – Smartnav can now assist
motorists in dealing with new challenges
such as toll roads, congestion charges
and speed cameras, as well as the more
established problems like avoiding the
effects of increasing road congestion and
vehicle security. 
We continue to develop new services that
can be delivered using our platform. Over
the past six months we have been
working with Norwich Union on the
feasibility of a “Pay as You Drive”
insurance service based on the
Trafficmaster platform. This would not
only provide Trafficmaster’s Smartnav,
Trackstar and Fleetstar customers with
an attractive insurance option, but it will
also allow Norwich Union to take
advantage of the versatile Trafficmaster
platform in their “Pay as you Drive”
programme. 
During 2005, we will deliver a GPRS
version of the Smartnav product which
will enable users to get their routes more
quickly and economically, as well as
improving services to customers.
Trafficmaster also expects to benefit from
the lower data transfer costs. 
In 2005, we are aiming to add some of the
remaining car manufacturers to the list of
companies providing Smartnav to its
customers. We also expect to continue to
refine and enhance the product to provide
greater service and value to the customer . 
In order to maximise our position in the
rapidly developing navigation market we
have started to market Smartnav more
aggressively using the most cost-effective
and targeted media. In March and April,
for example, we will be advertising in
motorway service areas and car
magazines and will broadcast a
nationwide radio campaign on 
Classic FM. 
We are confident in Smartnav’s continued
growth potential. The product is well
positioned being highly differentiated from
competing navigation systems. Being an
off-board solution, its single button ease
of use and superior routing performance
provide a compelling reason to buy in
many segments of the user community
whilst the additional services that we
provide on the platform are simply not
possible using on-board systems. In
particular, we find that customers value
Trafficmaster’s speed camera warnings,
partial address searches, concierge
services, and stolen vehicle tracking
capability. 
Teletrac Inc – 
USA fleet management business
The revenue growth we saw in the first
half of 2004 continued throughout the
second half giving year on year growth 
of 27.6% in USA dollars and 14.2% 
on a sterling basis. Teletrac is now a
sizable operation with around 45,000
vehicles being monitored and over 10
million vehicle communications 
handled each day. 
The growth in revenues and profits has
occurred in all three of our operational
regions in the USA. During 2004 we
entered five new metros including Atlanta,
Las Vegas and Boston and will enter
another eleven in 2005. As well as
geographical expansion we have
increased the effectiveness of our sales
operation with our existing sales team
PAGE EIGHT
TRAFFICMASTER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 NEW CHALLENGES_NEW DIRECTIONS
PAGE NINE
improving productivity by 30% over
2003. In addition we have also started
to see significant revenue from our
National accounts team with 350 units
at Stuart Stevenson and another for
190 units in Builder First Source.
Teletrac is positioned at the high
feature, high service end of the market.
This has enabled it to continue its sales
growth with unit sales up 50% on 2003.
At the same time, average revenue per
unit has remained steady, particularly
for the key Fleet Director product,
despite the entry of lower cost units
into the market.
As well as the improvement in sales
effectiveness, a 38% reduction in churn
and the introduction of the new
Trafficmaster “black box” into the
Teletrac market also contributed
significantly to the improvement in
margins.
Other product improvements
introduced this year include a new
customer control centre, live in-vehicle
diagnostics and a number of integrated
solutions for larger customers. 
UK Traffic Information Business
Our high quality UK traffic data
continues to be one of the cornerstones
of our business providing traffic
warnings for phone based, speech
based and car based traffic services. It
is also a unique and important part of
our Smartnav service allowing us to
provide accurate traffic impacted
routing which is superior to other
products in the market. 
Last year we began to deliver our high
quality traffic information over
RDS/TMC. This technology provides the
ability to deliver traffic information over
FM radio into conventional on-board
navigation systems. We are pleased to
announce that we will shortly be
providing a service for a premium
brand manufacturer through a contract
with Siemens VDO, and we are in the
final stages of concluding a contractual
agreement with Honda Motor Europe
Limited. We will begin delivering traffic
information to customers of these
companies in 2005 and more contracts
of this type are expected to follow 
this year . 
We continue to invest in the
development and maintenance of our
UK traffic information network, with a
view to improving the quality and scope
of the underlying data, during 2004 we
extended coverage to include the new
M6 toll road.
We have signed a deal with Transport
for London (TFL), allowing us to extend
the network extensively into London
using the data from their Congestion
Zone cameras. This will provide
Trafficmaster with improved inner
London traffic data and will provide 
TFL with Trafficmaster journey time
information for better management 
of the road network in London.
RAC Trackstar Limited – 
stolen vehicle tracking business 
RAC Trackstar continued to gain
market share during the period, with
the Trackstar Plus product. Trackstar
Plus is offered at a competitive price
and offers a “Safe Speed” speed
camera warning feature as an option
for users. This has proved attractive to
the market, with unit sales increased
by 35% over the same period last year
and gross profit up 34% on last year .
This year, Thatcham has specified a
new type of tracking device on behalf
of the motor insurance industry
designated Category 5. Trackstar will
deliver a new Category 5 product that
will start shipping in the second half of
the year . So far Category 5 devices have
not yet made an impact on the market
but as insurance companies adopt the
new standard this is likely to change in
the latter part of 2005. Trackstar is well
positioned to take advantage of the
opportunity that this industry change
may bring to the market.
Outlook
The UK navigation market and the USA
fleet tracking market continue to grow
rapidly and our new unified telematics
“black box” is now shipping in volume
in all our businesses. With the recent
contract wins across our operating
divisions, and despite the
administration of MG Rover, the
company is well positioned to continue
to deliver growth in 2005. 
Stuart Berman
Chief Executive
22 April 2005
