 4 Trakm8 Holdings PLC
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
The past 12 months has been demanding for
the Group as we continue the
transformation strategy from pure telematics
hardware design and manufacture to an
integrated telematics service provider.
The headline operating result set out in this
report, whilst disappointing, reflects the
challenges we have faced over the last year.
Nevertheless, margins are holding and whilst
we have not achieved profitability this year
the Directors’ believe that the Group is on
track to generate shareholder value.
The Group remains committed to its
transition to a fully integrated Telematics
Service provider (TSP) and I believe we are
firmly on track to achieve this. Revenue and
operating profit declined in the first half due
to a period of brand impact from our
reported supplier issue (April 2007) and a
delay in orders as customers waited for the
T6 launch. These two identified issues were
compounded in the second half by a sharp
decline in the Euro/GBP exchange rate which
increased the cost of the Group’s proprietary
hardware platforms by 11% on average, an
increase which has not been passed on to
customers. Additionally, whilst initially
seeing an increase in sales from Trakm8
SWIFT® during the first half of the year, sales
growth slowed in the latter half.
In seeking to mitigate the impact of these
latter two events the Group was mindful of
considerable interest in an early launch of T6.
However the Directors took the practical
view that it was inadvisable to bring forward
the planned March 2008 launch of the T6
product without incurring additional
technical risk to a new platform.
Nevertheless the Group recognised the need
to address the sales strategy of the Group
and therefore accelerated the recruitment of
a senior sales professional and I am pleased
to report that the recruitment process was
successfully concluded in January with
encouraging results to date.
The Board
As announced late April 2007, Tim Evans,
the Strategy and Marketing Director resigned
from the Board to pursue other
opportunities. There is no current intention
to appoint a replacement.
The Group also announced on 2 June 2008
that Tim Couling, the Group’s Finance
Director, was stepping down for personal
reasons and would leave the Board and the
Company later in the year. The Board has
identified a replacement, whose
appointment is expected to be announced
when Tim formally leaves the position. On
behalf of the Board I would like to thank Tim
for his hard work over the last four years and
wish him well for the future.
Outlook
The Executive team remain fully committed
to the delivery of higher margin sales growth
and a return to profitability. The Group will
continue to develop our business and, as
noted at half year, will continue to examine
expansion by acquisition, organically or other
means. I would like to close by thanking all
Trakm8 personnel for their continued
commitment to the Group over the last year.
DAWSON BUCK
Chairman
The Executive team
remain fully committed
to the delivery of
higher margin sales
growth and a return to
profitability.
Dawson Buck
Chairman
“
”
