 06   TRAFFICMASTER PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2008
16123 16/04/2009 Proof 10
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT 
We are pleased to report that overall group revenues of 
£55.8m and operating profit excluding non-recurring items 
of £6.1m for 2008 were both 15% ahead of comparative 
performance in 2007. We continue to operate in two market-
facing divisions, focusing on businesses and consumers 
respectively. Our Business Services division is the larger 
of the two, and accounts for 65% of group revenues (2007: 
60%) and 82% of group operating profit before corporate 
costs (2007: 71%). All of our businesses made significant 
operational improvements compared to the prior year, and 
have exciting long-term prospects.
Business Services
Through our Fleet Director product, our Business Services 
division offers customers in the US and the UK the ability 
to make significant operating efficiencies through a range 
of fleet tracking services. Overall divisional revenues were 
£36.4m, up 26% on 2007. Profitability improved, with divisional 
operating profit of £6.8m being achieved, up 25% on 2007. 
Operating profit margins remained constant at 19% as the 
benefits of economies of scale more than offset the additional 
investment in sales capabilities and, particularly, the launch 
costs of Fleet Director in the UK.
In the US, Teletrac continued on the growth path established 
in recent years, with double-digit constant-currency revenue 
growth. We continued to invest in expanding the sales team, 
and now have a direct sales presence in over 75 cities. During 
2008 we established a major accounts sales team to focus on 
the specific opportunities offered by customers with larger 
vehicle fleets, and have achieved notable success in this 
market. Building on the success of contract wins announced 
during 2008, we are delighted to announce that we have been 
selected to provide fleet tracking services to United Road 
Services, the largest tow truck operator in the US.
Our partnership with Ryder contributed to the growth 
experienced in the US. Following an extensive trial, 
the RydeSmart
®
 programme was launched to Ryder’s 
customer base in 2008. RydeSmart
®
, powered by Teletrac, 
allows Ryder’s customers to benefit from the efficiency 
improvements offered by Fleet Director, as well as an 
extensive range of additional value-added services.
2008 was the first full year of operation for Fleet Director in 
the UK and we achieved our aim of establishing a significant 
business in the UK fleet tracking market. We have continued 
to develop our successful partnership with Citroën, under 
which we provide navigation and stolen vehicle tracking 
services as standard on Relay, Berlingo and Dispatch vans, 
and can support the vehicle owner by providing a range of 
additional services with Fleet Director . Since its launch, 
Fleet Director has been chosen by several significant fleets, 
including Nottingham City Homes, Liebherr, South Tyneside 
Council and Speedy Hire Plc. 
We were delighted that our products received industry 
recognition during 2008, with Trafficmaster being awarded 
Technology of the Year at the 2008 Fleet Van awards. At the 
Green Fleet awards in October 2008, Fleet Director was 
awarded IT and Communications Product of the year for 
its proven benefits in improving business performance. 
Finally, we received the Frost & Sullivan award for Product 
Line Strategy at the International Excellence in Automotive 
Transport and Design awards.  
Although global economic conditions deteriorated rapidly 
in 2008, we remain optimistic about the outlook for the 
Business Services division. Our Fleet Director service allows 
users to dramatically reduce fuel consumption and improve 
productivity of their assets at a time when all businesses are 
looking for efficiency improvements. 
Consumer Services
Our Consumer Service division offers a range of Traffic and 
Stolen Vehicle Tracking services to consumers, and is also 
where we manage our Emerging Products activities. Revenues 
in 2008 were flat at £19.3m (2007: £19.5m), whilst divisional 
operating profit fell 34% to £1.5m (2007: £2.2m). Margin in 
the year was temporarily held back by investment in start-up 
costs for the Stolen Vehicle Tracking programme with BMW. 
Our Traffic business provides users with access to market-
leading live traffic information through a range of different 
services. In 2008 we had the first full year of new contracts 
with Volkswagen, Audi, Vauxhall and Saab. 
16123TRAFFICM.indd   06 16/04/2009   11:17 Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
www.trafﬁ cmaster.co.uk  TRAFFICMASTER PLC   07
16123 16/04/2009 Proof 10
 
“We have made signiﬁ cant 
progress in winning market 
share, and have implemented 
signiﬁ cant operating 
efﬁ ciencies which should 
underpin performance in 2009. ”
Y our Questions answered . . .
What synergy is there between your Business 
and Consumer activities?
Both businesses are based on a common underlying technology 
platform, which enable the group to maximise its return on 
investment in product development and support, as well 
as operationally. The group also beneﬁ ts from signiﬁ cant 
economies of scale from sharing a common platform.
Awards
We had a hugely successful year in 2008 and were delighted 
at the industry recognition received as well as local business 
acknowledgement. Awards received included the prestigious 
2008 Green Fleet Award for IT and Communications Product of 
the Year for Fleet Director .
Fleet Director was also credited at the 2008 Fleet Van 
Awards and awarded Technology of the Year, for its advanced 
integrated driving solutions. We received the Frost & Sullivan 
award for Product Line Strategy at the International Excellence 
in Automotive Transport and Design Awards.
Closer to home we won three major awards at the 2008 Milton 
Keynes and North Bucks Chamber of Commerce Business 
Excellence Awards. We were judged overall winner as the most 
outstanding company entered into the Chamber’s Business 
Excellence Awards as well as Business Innovation of the Year 
and Business of the Year .
Our Excellence is 
Getting Recognition
make driving 
BETTER
16123TRAFFICM.indd   07 16/04/2009   11:17 08   TRAFFICMASTER PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2008
16123 16/04/2009 Proof 10
We have continued to develop innovative ways of providing 
users with access to our high-quality live traffic information, 
including the launch of our new Digital Traffic Service on the 
UK DAB network, in partnership with Digital One.
2008 was a good year for our Stolen Vehicle Tracking 
business, which made positive progress through market 
share gains. During the year we launched our partnership 
with BMW, through which we are BMW’s exclusive approved 
provider of vehicle tracking services in the UK.
In July 2008 we acquired Tri-Mex Group Ltd, which offers 
stolen vehicle tracking across more than 40 countries 
through its Eurowatch service. Eurowatch has now been fully 
integrated within Trafficmaster and is operating profitably. 
With its stolen vehicle tracking relationships with Jaguar, 
Land-Rover, GE Leasing and Aston Martin, we now have 
a significantly increased presence and capability in the 
international stolen vehicle tracking market. 
Our Emerging Products developments are focused around 
nascent markets for which a robust revenue model has yet to 
be fully established. All of the activities we undertake in this 
area are financed by external customers which allows us to 
leverage existing investments and work with customers and 
partners in establishing long-term commercial opportunities. 
We were also pleased to have been selected by the UK’s 
Department for Transport to undertake a multi-year trial 
commencing in 2009, evaluating the technological elements of 
road pricing. There is a significant international opportunity to 
develop and deploy road-pricing technologies in jurisdictions 
around the world, and we are actively pursuing these 
opportunities in conjunction with partners.
During 2008 we were disappointed that Norwich Union ended 
its pioneering Pay-As-You-Drive car insurance service in 
the UK, which was enabled by Trafficmaster technology. 
This service allowed drivers to pay for insurance based on 
location, time of day and age of driver . Following on from this 
programme, we are currently trialling a similar service with 
a significant US-based insurer and are actively progressing 
discussions with several other potential partners.
OUTLOOK
Our Business Services division has established a strong 
track record on both sides of the Atlantic, and momentum 
is continuing to grow. The proven ability of our Fleet 
Director product to reduce costs and generate business 
efficiencies means that it remains an attractive service for our 
customers in times of economic uncertainty. We have exciting 
opportunities to develop the business further and continue to 
invest in developing the product, and expanding our sales and 
operating capability.
The ongoing economic uncertainty is providing challenging 
trading conditions for the Consumer Services division. 
However, we have made significant progress in winning 
market share, and have implemented significant operating 
efficiencies which should underpin performance in 2009. 
Since 2001 the group has successfully acquired and 
integrated Teletrac, Yeoman and Eurowatch, demonstrating 
the management team’s strong track record of effective 
acquisitions. We remain committed to acquiring businesses 
which have a clear strategic fit, do not represent a high 
degree of risk, and which can materially enhance the overall 
prospects of the group. 
We are pleased to have delivered a strong performance 
in 2008, despite an increasingly difficult economic 
environment, and although we expect 2009 to bring many 
challenges, we believe that the group is in a strong position to 
continue its progress.
TONY EALES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT
CONTINUED
16123TRAFFICM.indd   08 16/04/2009   11:17 Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
www.trafﬁ cmaster.co.uk  TRAFFICMASTER PLC   09
16123 16/04/2009 Proof 10
journey 
STREAMLINING
We are pleased to have delivered a 
strong performance in 2008, despite 
an increasingly difficult economic 
environment, and although we expect 
2009 to bring many challenges, we 
believe that the group is in a strong 
position to continue its progress.
Y our Questions answered . . .
How has the acquisition of Eurowatch helped 
the group?
The Eurowatch service is the world’s leading international 
tracking and recovery service, and enables our customers to be 
conﬁ dent that their assets can be tracked and recovered from 
over 40 countries. 
Y our Questions answered . . .
Are you missing out on opportunities in other 
geographic markets?
Although there are signiﬁ cant ﬂ eet tracking opportunities 
in countries where Trafﬁ cmaster does not currently have 
a presence, market penetration is relatively low. Through 
Trafﬁ cmaster’s UK and US focus, we are addressing 80% of 
the installed base of ﬂ eet tracking units, and therefore have a 
unique strength in the most active markets. We are continuing 
to monitor other markets closely however, and will develop 
strategies for those markets as they become more attractive. 
16123TRAFFICM.indd   09 16/04/2009   11:18
