 08  TrafficmasTer Plc  annual report and accounts 2009
17384	 06/05/2010	 Proof	6
the board is pleased to report strong results for 2009.  
revenue in 2009 grew by 4% to £57.5m and profit before tax 
grew by 14% to £5.1m for the group as a whole. our Business 
services division performed very strongly, with revenue 
growth of 23% and operating profit growth of 138%, as our 
fleet director product continues to deliver excellent service 
to a growing customer base. revenue in our consumer 
services division declined by 22% and operating profit 
declined by 79% as we moved away from project-based, 
non-recurring revenues to focus on building a business 
based on recurring subscription revenue. overall the group 
is now in a significantly stronger position, with the underlying 
subscription-based nature of our services driving revenue and 
profit growth. 
we have had a number of notable sales successes in 2009, 
with a particularly strong performance from our national 
accounts team. w e are providing services to an increasing 
number of large customer fleets as well as maintaining our 
traditional strength amongst smaller fleet operators as the 
operating cost benefits of our technology become increasingly 
recognised. 
since the year-end we have been able to take steps towards 
expanding our business through an acquisition. in January 
we completed the refinancing of the group, by successfully 
raising an additional £4.2m of equity (before expenses) and 
refinancing our long-term bank facilities. this allowed us to 
complete the acquisition of fleet management s olutions, inc., 
which expands the range of services we can offer customers 
and will allow us to take advantage of exciting opportunities 
globally. the refinancing also provides certainty of funding to 
underpin the group’s activities over the next few years.  
2009 was a very difficult year in which to make progress and 
the board recognises the tremendous drive and determination 
of our people. along with many other businesses we have 
had to make hard decisions to reduce costs, which has put 
additional pressures on our people and we thank those who 
are no longer with us for their contribution. 
there have been two board changes since the last annual 
report. our previous chairman, colin w alsh, stepped down 
at the last annual General meeting and the board takes 
this opportunity to again express our thanks to colin for his 
enthusiasm, inspiration and commitment to t rafficmaster 
over the previous seventeen years. in may 2009 we were 
delighted to welcome phil cartmell as a non-executive 
director . phil’s extensive experience in running a wide range 
of businesses over many years is already proving invaluable to 
the board.
in summary the board is very pleased with the progress the 
company has made. the uncertain market conditions in 2009 
have been well documented and the board believes that 
t rafficmaster has performed well against its competitors 
throughout the period and is well positioned to continue its 
development.
Al An McW Alter
chairman of trafficmaster plc
chairman’s sT aTemenT
“The Board is pleased to report another year of strong 
progress at T rafficmaster despite the challenging 
market conditions. revenue grew and profitability 
improved as the recurring subscription-based nature 
of the business strengthened. With the acquisition of 
fms and associated refinancing post year-end, the 
group has made great progress in positioning itself 
well to benefit from future opportunities” .  www.trafficmaster.co.uk  TrafficmasTer Plc   09
Our Accounts Our Governance Our Business
17384	 06/05/2010	 Proof	6
We reduce overtime
by 15% on average;
unauthorised vehicle
use by 12% on
average and improve
productivity by 12%
on average
f act
Case study
Robert	Heath	Heating is one of the uK’s leading heating and 
maintenance contractors, working across the south of england 
for local authorities, housing associations and social landlords.  
the company’s 110-strong team of engineers carry out repairs 
and servicing in circa 60,000 properties.
it decided to install fleet director after investigating a number  
of fleet management solutions:
stuart cocks, financial director at robert heath, said:
“once we saw what fleet director could deliver for us, at an 
extremely competitive price, it was the obvious choice.  
fleet director is also very easy to use — and our drivers have 
found the smartnav routing very user-friendly as well.  i believe 
fleet director has also played an important part in helping us 
not only maintain current customers but secure new business 
contracts as well.”
the company has since reduced private mileage costs by 25%.
