 04   TRAFFICMASTER PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2008
16123 16/04/2009 Proof 10
Despite the unprecedented global trading conditions 
experienced in the second half of 2008, your board is pleased 
to report a year of strong progress at Trafficmaster resulting in 
record sales, improved profitability and strong cash generation.  
As 2008 marked the 20th anniversary of the establishment of 
Trafficmaster, I have taken the opportunity to reflect on what 
has been achieved over the years, to comment specifically on 
the 2008 performance and to set that performance within the 
context of the group’s development strategy. 
From its origins as a new company providing traffic information 
to motorists, Trafficmaster has expanded its focus to also 
become a leading provider of vehicle tracking services to 
business customers. Our Business Services division which sells 
Fleet Director, our fleet management product, now accounts 
for the majority of the group’s revenue and profits. The original 
traffic business has evolved to become the UK’s leading 
supplier of high quality traffic information to a diverse group 
of customers. 
Within the Business Services division, the sharp increase in fuel 
costs last year prompted many fleet owners to consider Fleet 
Director as a means to control costs and improve efficiency. 
We strengthened our sales resource significantly in the US 
marketplace and grew our US Fleet Director sales impressively. 
Also in the US, we have developed an exciting presence in the 
long-haul and major account markets, complementing our 
traditional strengths in servicing city-based customers. In 
the UK, Fleet Director achieved a successful first full year of 
trading, and has established itself as a serious competitor in 
this significant market. 
The Consumer Services division has been more affected by 
the downturn in global economic activity, however a number of 
significant underlying milestones have been achieved and we 
completed a small acquisition to provide European coverage for 
Trackstar, our stolen vehicle tracking business. Both the Traffic 
and Trackstar businesses have made significant market share 
gains, and are both well positioned for the eventual recovery in 
the global economy. 
The challenging economic conditions also bring opportunity. 
Profitability improves strongly with scale in the business of fleet 
management, stolen vehicle tracking and traffic. In this regard, 
the recessionary environment is generating opportunities for 
us to acquire complementary businesses cost-effectively that 
offer scale and as a result, profit enhancement and growth for 
the group. 
Your board has continued to develop, and in September 2008 
we welcomed Tim Coleman as Group Finance Director . In 
November 2008 we announced that I intended stepping down 
from the board as Chairman at the next AGM, having served 
on the board of Trafficmaster for some seventeen years and as 
Chairman for the past five. Over that period the company has 
turned pioneering technology into commercial success, and 
has developed a peerless range of products and services that 
have been transformational for our customers. The company 
continues to innovate, and I remain confident that many every-
day services of the future will be brought to market successfully 
by the team at Trafficmaster . We are still working through the 
process of appointing my successor as Chairman and hope to 
make further announcements about this in the very near future.  
The old adage that “when the going gets tough, the tough get 
going” aptly describes the calibre of the executive team in place 
at Trafficmaster .  Under the strong leadership of Tony Eales, 
each of the executive directors has made considerable strides 
in improving the performance of the divisions they manage 
and I am immensely proud of what they have achieved.  Behind 
them, “Team Trafficmaster” now consists of a further 530 staff 
across our UK and US operations and I am grateful to each and 
every one of them for their continuing effort and contribution. 
In summary, 2008 was a year of achievement at Trafficmaster, 
with strong financial performance being coupled with significant 
underlying commercial success, leading to the strongest 
competitive position that we have enjoyed in recent years. While 
no one can be complacent as to what the future may bring, our 
current business mix has proved resilient to what the economy 
has thrown at us so far . 
This has allowed your board to balance the difficult economic 
conditions expected in 2009 with the confidence that 
Trafficmaster is well positioned to continue to grow and provide 
its customers continuing business performance efficiencies 
while at the same time growing shareholder value. I wish 
“Team Trafficmaster” every success in that objective and am 
confident that the business will continue to prosper through 
2009 and beyond.  
COLIN WALSH
CHAIRMAN OF TRAFFICMASTER PLC
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
“2008 was a year of achievement 
at T rafﬁ cmaster, with strong 
ﬁ nancial performance being 
coupled with signiﬁ cant 
underlying commercial success. ”
16123TRAFFICM.indd   04 16/04/2009   11:16 Our Business Our Governance Our Accounts
www.trafﬁ cmaster.co.uk  TRAFFICMASTER PLC   05
16123 16/04/2009 Proof 10
improve journey
EFFECTIVENESS
Your Questions 
answered . . .
Why hasn’t 
Trafﬁ cmaster paid 
a dividend?
The board reviews the 
dividend policy regularly. 
There are many exciting 
opportunities for investment 
to enhance shareholder 
value which the board has 
to balance against returning 
cash to shareholders, 
however the board is 
committed to initiating a 
dividend in due course.
Key Events 
  Trafﬁ cmaster launches Smartnav the ﬁ rst 
any-car system to combine satellite naviga-
tion with live, historic, forecast and incident 
based trafﬁ c information and access to a 
personal assistant.
2002
  Trafﬁ cmaster launches RDS-TMC (Radio 
Data System-Trafﬁ c Message Channel) to 
provide drivers with accurate real time trafﬁ c 
ﬂ ow data via a standard-ﬁ t or optional 
on-board navigation system. 
2004
  Tony Eales becomes Chief Executive of 
Trafﬁ cmaster plc.   Ryder partnership with 
Teletrac launched.
2005
  The Colour Touchscreen is launched. 
  Extended standard ﬁ t across the whole 
Citroën van range.   Acquisition of Eurowatch 
extends coverage for Stolen Vehicle Tracking 
to 40+ countries.
2008
  Citroën partnership launched in the UK, 
with Smaertnav being standard ﬁ t on Relay 
vans.
2006
  Trafﬁ cmaster launches its comprehensive 
ﬂ eet management and tracking service, Fleet 
Director, in the UK.   Trackstar becomes 
BMW’s approved tracking system.   Extended 
standard ﬁ t on Citroën Dispatch vans.
2007
16123TRAFFICM.indd   05 16/04/2009   11:17
