 5 Trakm8 Holdings PLC
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
I believe that
the combination of
revitalised organic sales
direction and R&D
leadership positions the
Group for improved
financial performance
in the coming year.
Cary Knapton
Chief Executive Officer
“
”
Introduction
The last year has seen the Group continue to
develop its service offerings, centred on
enhancements to Trakm8 SWIFT®. The
Group has also been successful in securing
participation in two government grant-
funded R&D projects. The acquisition of
PJSoft s.r.o. (PJSoft) has also proved positive
for the Group, increasing our R&D capability
at an important time. In late March 2008
the Group launched our newest hardware
platform, the Trakm8 T6 (T6) which
represents a significant step forward in high
functionality, low cost telematics hardware.
During the second half of the year the Group
was successful in recruiting a senior sales
professional to head up Group sales. Initial
indications are very positive and recent sales
performance shows an encouraging trend.
This dedicated sales leadership role fills an
important position within the business and
the Directors are confident that renewed
focus in this area will yield significant
benefits. This is a pivotal role as the Group’s
transition strategy continues and new
products and services are delivered to market.
Operational Review
Trakm8 continues the transformation
journey to fully integrated TSP which we
began over a year ago. The launch of our
next generation platform, the T6, which was
rolled out in late March 2008, brings further
improvement to the Group’s competitive
edge in terms of functionality, form factor
and ease of installation.
The markets in which the Group operates
have proved challenging in the year with
strong competition emerging across the
product range. Revenue has declined over
the year in part due to continued brand
impact from our reported supplier issue
(April 07) having an extended impact on
hardware sales. Another factor affecting
sales performance was the evidenced delay
in orders as customers appeared to wait for
the launch of the T6.
These factors have been compounded by a
strengthening of the Euro in the second half
year which has pushed the Group’s cost of
hardware up correspondingly. This latter
change, together with the weakening of the
US Dollar, has substantially reduced the
Group’s competitiveness in Dollar
denominated countries (principally the
United States of America (“US”)).
Concurrent to this the Group was notified by
its major US customer that it was ceasing to
take our product for competitive reasons
which resulted in the Group losing significant
but low margin hardware sales in the US.
As a result the Group has unfortunately not
been profitable this year.
Strategy
The Group’s strategic transition to a fully
integrated TSP remains on course. Achieving
success means closely interweaving the
threads of innovative R&D with excellence in
sales; and thereby delivering sustainable,
growing, profitability. The Group is some
way down this road and success is in sight.
As a result of the acquisition of PJSoft and
our involvement in the government
sponsored projects the Group’s R&D activities
have been significantly scaled up. This R&D
effort is expected to allow for early
commercial exploitation of various project &
customer lead initiatives in areas such as
driver behaviour monitoring, duty of care
and vehicle emissions monitoring as well as
in the data management software area.
The government sponsored projects bring
together leading industry players in our
sector with academia and major transport
data users. The Group’s selection by the
Technology Strategy Board (TSB) to lead the
Trusted Road Users – Emissions Profiling
project is further clear evidence that the
Group can effectively shape and lead major
advanced telematics R&D programmes and is
a major sign of confidence in the Group. In
addition the Group’s participation in the
Future Intelligent Transport Systems –
Freeflow project places us close to major
regional initiatives in road tolling, congestion
charging and vehicle workplace safety. 6 Trakm8 Holdings PLC
The Group’s transition to integrated TSP
continues to move forward, though now
reinforced with the increased value that
these collaborative R&D programmes bring.
Additionally the recruitment of the senior
sales professional has enabled greater sales
focus and increasing sales leadership within
the Group. Thus the transition strategy for
the business is strengthened and I am
confident that the Group is entering the final
phase of this difficult, but necessary, period.
Financial Review
This is the first full year we have had
to prepare our financial statements
under International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS).
Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2008
was £4.66m (2007: £6.37m), a decrease of
26.8%. Gross profit decreased to £2.02m
(2007: £2.49m). Gross margins have
increased to 43.5% (2007: 39.1%).
Increased administrative expenses of £2.99m
(2007: £2.38m), have resulted in the Group
announcing a loss on ordinary activities
before taxation for the period of £0.96m
(2007: profit £0.09m).
In the second half of the year the
strengthening of the Euro has had a
corresponding increase in the cost of the
Group’s hardware. The net increase in
hardware costs directly attributable to
exchange rate fluctuations in the second half
of the year was between 8.6% and 13.3%
depending on product. The Group has not
passed on this increase to customers.
The Group is encouraged to note that whilst
operating in a relatively competitive industry
our products are not materially suffering
from the continued pricing and margin
pressures that we have experienced in the
past. Trakm8 SWIFT® has seen somewhat
slower sales growth than anticipated,
however the Directors perceive this to be due
to an increased number of competitors with
consequential increased order closure
timescales. Nevertheless in like-for-like sales
situations Trakm8 SWIFT® remains
competitive and it is the Group’s firm belief
that a proportion of the reported revenue
shortfall is therefore likely to have been
delayed but not lost.
The Group responded to the revenue
shortfall with a review of operating
expenses, which had increased in the period
primarily due to Trakm8 SWIFT® service and
airtime costs. Non-impacting savings were
therefore identified which included a
reduction in contract staff and a necessary
reduction in permanent headcount, thereby
reducing core overheads. The Group
however was able to bring forward elements
of the international roll-out of Trakm8
SWIFT® through the unexpected availability
of key in-country personnel. The resultant
necessary costs of set-up in country,
although mitigated wherever possible,
largely negated the anticipated savings from
the review of operating expenses.
In summary therefore the operating losses
reported above were primarily due to slower
than planned recovery in sales from the
period of brand impact, the flatter sales
profile of Trakm8 SWIFT®, international
launch costs and the significant
strengthening of the Euro/GBP and USD/GBP
exchange rates.
Acquisition of PJSoft s.r.o.
As announced on 7 August 2007 the Group
acquired PJSoft; a Czech software house
with significant expertise in cartographic
technologies. This acquisition brought the
last external elements of our product
intellectual property in-house and allows the
Group to further leverage our software
offerings in a cost effective manner. As
noted at the time PJSoft had a close working
relationship with the Group and no
significant integration issues were
anticipated. I am pleased to report that no
significant integration issues have been
encountered and PJSoft are currently
preparing for the launch of Trakm8 SWIFT®
into the Czech Republic and Eastern Europe.
Outlook
The transition strategy is on course for
completion in the coming financial year and
I believe that this strategic shift for the Group
will be enhanced by our participation in the
government sponsored projects which we
announced in December 2007 and March
2008.
I believe that our products and services now
span the telematics value chain and the
Group expects to derive revenues from all
areas of the portfolio. Our supplier and
customer agreements demonstrate the
Group’s commitment and confidence in our
products and service offerings. Our
enhanced and renewed sales focus together
with our collaborative R&D programme will
cement the transition of the business to a
fully integrated TSP . We expect that these
developments will contribute to driving the
business forward and enable the delivery of
profitability and increased shareholder value.
The Group continues to identify international
sales opportunities for its hardware platforms
and I am pleased to report that our pipeline
currently includes major bids in the UK,
Europe, South Africa and South America.
The Group is also actively pursuing
organic growth routes in other countries for
Trakm8 SWIFT®.
The launch of the T6 significantly improves
our hardware product capability and the
Group is well placed to capitalise on the
opportunities presenting themselves in the
market place. I believe that the combination
of revitalised organic sales direction and R&D
leadership positions the Group for improved
financial performance in the coming year.
The Group therefore looks forward to the
future with enthusiasm. We remain firmly
on course to complete the transition to
integrated TSP and I remain confident we will
deliver our innovative products to market
with increased success.
CARY KNAPTON
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
...continued
