 10  TrafficmasTer Plc  annual report and accounts 2009
17384	 06/05/2010	 Proof	6
chief execuTive’s
sTaTemenT 
t rafficmaster continued to make good progress in 2009. 
profitability grew strongly in our Business s ervices division, 
which now represents 70% of group revenues and 87% of 
operating profit before corporate costs and non-recurring 
items. our consumer s ervices division also had a good 
year, with our recurring stolen v ehicle t racking and t raffic 
businesses growing operating profit in aggregate, albeit 
offset by a decline in our project-based emerging products 
business. overall revenues and operating profits from our 
vehicle tracking subscription-based activities grew by 17% 
and 190% respectively to £50.2m and £7.8m.
Business services
through our fleet director product, our Business s ervices 
division offers customers in the us and the uK the ability to 
make significant operating efficiencies to their businesses 
through a range of fleet tracking services. divisional revenues 
continued to grow, to £40.0m, up 23% on 2008. profitability 
improved significantly, with divisional operating profit of 
£7.3m being 138% ahead of 2008. operating margins grew 
to 18% (2008: 9%) as the benefits of scale continue to be 
delivered, along with a shift in revenue mix towards higher 
margin subscriptions. our performance in 2009 demonstrates 
the benefits of having a subscription-based recurring 
revenue model at the core of our business. overall fleet 
subscribers have grown from 47,000 in 2005 to over 98,000 
in 2009, representing compound growth of 20% per year . 
customer churn in 2009 was 12%, which was in line with 
our average over the past five years. on a constant currency 
basis Business services revenue grew by 8% in the year and 
operating profit by 95%. 
 in the us, t eletrac continued to progress well. we expanded 
the major accounts sales team we established in 2008, 
and sales volumes derived through this team trebled in 
2009. notable successes in the past year include winning 
contracts with united site s ervices, united road t owing and 
mp nexlevel. w e have a growing pipeline of opportunities to 
provide service to customers with larger and more complex 
fleet requirements, which supplements our traditional 
strength in the smaller business market. as well as expanding 
our resource in major accounts we have continued to expand 
our smaller business sales teams, and since the year end 
have begun to establish a network of third party resellers to 
supplement our direct sales activities.
during 2009 we completed the transition of our customer base 
from legacy rf networks onto our current state of the art 
technology. t his process has been undertaken over a period of 
several years, and we are pleased that most of our customers 
have taken advantage of this transition to upgrade their service. 
t he completion of this transition process has resulted in surplus 
legacy inventory which we have provided against in 2009.
over the past year we have strengthened our partnership with 
ryder and sales of rydesmart, powered by t eletrac, have 
grown as the benefits of managing fleets efficiently 
have become even more pressing. ryder have committed to 
rolling out rydesmart across their entire rental fleet over the 
coming year .
in the uK sales of fleet director have continued to grow and 
we have won contracts with south t yneside council, liebherr, 
and Giffen Group over the past year . we have expanded our 
sales team and continued to develop our partnership with 
citroën under which we provide navigation and stolen vehicle 
tracking services as standard on relay, Berlingo and dispatch 
vans, and can support the vehicle owner by providing a range 
of additional services with fleet director . in early 2010 citroën 
announced that they would be extending our contract to 
include the base models of their entire van range.
fleet director continues to lead the industry, and during 2009 
won the fleet v an t echnology initiative of the year award and 
mobile electronics news’ Best fleet t racking product award, 
to add to a host of awards received over the past few years. 
as our business expands we are able to invest further in our 
product capability which will allow us to further improve our 
customer proposition compared to our competitors.
since the year-end we have announced the acquisition of f leet 
management solutions, inc (“fms ”). fms is a fast growing 
provider of satellite-based fleet tracking services enabling 
customers to manage their mobile assets anywhere in the world. 
“Business services has continued its strong 
progress in a tough environment. in the us, T eletrac 
continued to expand and we now have over 100,000 
vehicles using our services. our national accounts 
team had another successful year with some 
significant customer wins and sales volumes treble 
those in 2008. in the uK, fleet Director subscribers 
grew, building on the momentum created in 2008. ” www.trafficmaster.co.uk  TrafficmasTer Plc   11
Our Accounts Our Governance Our Business
17384	 06/05/2010	 Proof	6
We collect over 200m
data records per day on
real road speeds via our
in-vehicle units
f act
Awards
fleet director collected the prestigious fleet v an t echnology 
initiative of the year award 2009
the a ward specifically recognised the latest range of software 
enhancements to the system – particularly the ability to 
identify the actual closest vehicle based on live traffic 
information, which is unique in the industry. t ogether with the 
other new features of live traffic information now overlaid on 
virtual mapping; the instant dashboard reports and two-way 
messaging, fleet director really impressed the judges with its 
ability to support both fleet managers and drivers.
Fleet Van Magazine
t rafficmaster’s move to put smartnav navigation and its unique 
personal assistant service onto Gps mobile phones and 
BlackBerry was hailed by Businesscar as taking the hand-held 
sat nav market “to a new level” and consequently awarded it 
the 2009 Businesscar t echnology award.
Business Car Magazine
t rafficmaster also received the Best fleet management 
product with fleet director and  Best t racking product  
for t rackstar at the men a wards.  the awards not only 
acknowledged the excellence of the product but also the 
highest quality service delivered by t rafficmaster to their 
customers across the mobile electronics industry.
Mobile electronics news 12  TrafficmasTer Plc  annual report and accounts 2009
17384	 06/05/2010	 Proof	6
chief execuTive’s
sTaTemenT 
conTinueD
“overall T rafficmaster performed well in 2009.  
We have made some significant steps over the past 
twelve months, and the business is in a strong 
position to take advantage of the many 
opportunities for growth that we expect in 2010. ” 
the acquisition complements our fleet director service, 
which requires assets to be located in areas of mobile phone 
coverage. fms has established a strong presence in two 
key markets, the oil & gas market, and government, who 
require global, secure asset management systems. the us 
department of homeland s ecurity is currently deploying the 
fms service across 4,500 of its vehicles and the sales pipeline 
is growing.
Consumer services
our consumer s ervice division offers a range of t raffic 
and stolen v ehicle t racking services to consumers, and is 
also where we manage our emerging products activities. 
consumer s ervices revenues in 2009 declined 22% to £17.4m 
(2008: £22.4m), and operating profits declined by 78% to 
£1.1m (2008: £5.0m). almost all of the decline is driven by our 
non-recurring, project-based activities in emerging products. 
the ongoing, recurring consumer-led activities represented 
around 90% of consumer s ervices revenues in 2009.
stolen v ehicle t racking revenues declined 2% to £10.2m 
(2008: £10.4m) and the business reported an improved 
operating profit of £0.5m (2008: loss of £0.4m). our strong 
market position helped protect us somewhat, although the 
severe depression in prestige car sales has had an inevitable 
impact on the business. we have key relationships with Bmw, 
Jaguar, land-rover and aston martin amongst others, which 
help to protect our market share. we have continued to 
develop these relationships, and have been able to increase 
our penetration of vehicles requiring tracking.
our t raffic business provides users with access to market-
leading live traffic information through a range of different 
services. in line with overall consumer sentiment revenue 
declined 15% in 2009 to £5.4m (2008: £6.3m). with a largely 
fixed cost base, operating profit declined to a loss of £0.3m 
(2008: profit £0.4m), although the business generated positive 
contribution before depreciation of £1.0m (2008 £1.9m). 
during the year we signed a contract with navteq which 
enables navteq to use our market-leading live traffic data in 
a broad range of applications globally and as a core part of 
their pan-european traffic service offerings. w e also signed a 
two year extension to our contract with the uK Government’s 
department for t ransport (“dft”) for the supply of traffic data. 
this contract now runs until 2014. 
our emerging products developments continue to focus on 
paid-for development work in nascent markets for which a 
robust revenue model has yet to be fully established. all of the 
activities we undertake in this area are financed by external 
customers. this allows us to leverage existing investments, 
and work with customers and partners in establishing long-
term commercial opportunities. in 2009 we completed the first 
phase of the uK department for t ransport’s multi-year trial, 
evaluating the technological elements of road pricing, and 
have been awarded the contract for the second phase, which 
will complete in 2010. there is a significant international 
opportunity to develop and deploy road-pricing technologies 
in jurisdictions around the world and we are actively pursuing 
these opportunities in conjunction with partners.
Outlook
Business services has grown well driven by a growing 
subscriber base. owners of vehicle fleets are relying on 
technology to manage their mobile assets more effectively 
in the difficult financial climate. fleet director’s advanced 
capabilities allow our customers to realise operating 
efficiencies immediately and market penetration of fleet 
management solutions is rising.
our acquisition of fms after the year-end expands our range 
of fleet management capabilities, and allows us to address 
new markets. it also demonstrates our ability to identify and 
execute acquisitions which allow us to build scale, and expand 
the range of services available to our customers.
consumer s ervices has diverse revenue streams but 
continues to depend on overall levels of consumer spending 
in the economy. we are managing operating costs very tightly 
and are developing opportunities to grow our market share.
2009 was successful in a tough environment and looking 
ahead it appears that 2010 will again be challenging. however 
we believe that we are in strong position, and are approaching 
the future with confidence.
t ony eAles
chief executive www.trafficmaster.co.uk  TrafficmasTer Plc   13
Our Accounts Our Governance Our Business
17384	 06/05/2010	 Proof	6
Case study
Lyndhurst,	Department	of	Public	Works in the state of new 
Jersey, achieved astonishing results within a month.
having fitted t eletrac’s fleet director, it drastically reduced 
idling and cruising time as well as completely stamping out any 
unauthorised vehicle movement out of town or out of hours.
Between the months of december 2009 and January 2010 the 
organisation saved 265 gallons of diesel.
Case study
Pro-Tect	Systems	Ltd, the uK’s sole distributor of t aser 
products, which are electronic control devices used by police 
forces and the military runs a fleet of only six vehicles, however 
it uses an advanced fleet management system to manage its 
drivers better . Glenn cameron, it director and office manager, 
explains his use of fleet telematics:
“we had a driver in scotland when a customer based in cumbria 
called in with an emergency technical fault. as the driver was 
travelling back down we notified him of the job details and 
immediately sent directions via smartnav. not only were we able 
to satisfy the customer’s demand, but we saved ourselves from 
sending out another driver on another day.”
