 Trakm8 Holdings PLC 
 
CEO’S STATEMENT 
 
 
5 
Company Number 05452547 
 
 
I am pleased with the progress summarised in the Chairman’s Statement. 
 
The decision was taken last year and implemented early in the second half, to make a game changing 
investment in engineering, sales and support staff.  This increased our operating costs by 
approximately £50,000 per month. This decision has also negatively impacted the profit and loss 
during the period as our revenues have as expected lagged these investments. 
 
Due to delays on some product sales which took longer to complete than expected, overall revenues 
declined somewhat; although disappointing, this is a reflection of the increased emphasis on solutions 
sales and engineering services. The transition from the hardware supplier Trakm8 was five years ago 
to the full solutions supplier of today has made the revenue line move from one off sales today to 
long term recurring service revenues. As a result the top line can be strongly influenced by individual 
major contracts but the underlying revenue security of the Group continues to improve.  
 
Trakm8 has enjoyed a significant improvement in sales of complete solutions and engineering services 
during the period. This has resulted in strong growth in recurring revenues and higher margins.  
 
The Group revenues are accounted for in three segments: 
 
Products  
 
This is the segment where Trakm8 supplies other Telematics Service Providers with hardware 
solutions. In most cases this also includes our market leading unit configuration firmware. This has 
been a year of transition. Many of our UK customers for our products in the past have migrated to 
alternative suppliers that do not compete with them in the solutions market. This migration is perhaps 
a validation of our success in competing at the end user level. 
 
Following the appointment of an International Business Development Manager early in the year, we 
have increased our international sales of hardware. This has taken some time to build traction as 
customers conduct extensive trials to ensure that the hardware meets their requirements. New 
customers have started to buy units from us in North and South America. Overall, the total number of 
units sold to third parties declined during the year, but the trend towards year-end was positive. The 
highlight of the year was the significant sales of hardware to Motorola as announced on 2 July 2012. 
 
Whilst the sales of hardware to third party integrators help us to ensure our manufactured cost of 
products are as low as can be achieved, these revenues are at lower margins and have no on-going 
recurring revenues. As such they remain important to us but not the most strategically important 
segment. 
 
Solutions  
 
This segment is where Trakm8 supplies customers with a fully integrated service provision. Customers 
include the AA, Eon and Jewson. This solution is also provided through a partner in South Africa.  
 
The number of units reporting to Swift has continued to grow steadily throughout the year and this 
has increased the base of recurring monthly revenue, which provides the improved security and 
predictability to future income. By the end of the financial year the monthly recurring revenue had 
increased by 9.9% on the previous year to an annualised £2.15m. The majority of these revenues are 
not taken as upfront payments ensuring our cash receipts are close to sales booked.  
 
 
  Trakm8 Holdings PLC 
 
CEO’S STATEMENT (continued) 
 
 
 
 
Company Number 05452547 
 
 
 
6 
 
We were pleased to announce on 25 April 2013 the completion of a product transfer agreement with 
Visilink, a Cheshire based Telematics Service Provider.   Under the agreement Visilink’s entire 
customer base was offered the opportunity to transfer to our Swift solution. This process proved that 
we could communicate with third party hardware via our Stream servers. No revenues accrued during 
the year to March 2013 but we expect over 500 units to eventually migrate onto Swift, providing a lift 
in recurring revenues for the new financial year. 
 
During the year the Company enhanced the engineering investments in new solutions and launched 
updated versions of Swift and eco
N
.  We also launched a new fleet management routing and 
scheduling package called Logistics. This package has three early adopters and has an encouraging 
number of other inquiries. 
 
Another new product developed during the year but launched in the last month is the Tachograph 
range of solutions that integrate the digital tachograph information into mobile applications for driver 
and operator status reporting and provide operators with the legal compliance data required to meet 
the driver hours regulations. Again early adopters have expressed positive feedback and the pipeline 
of opportunities is growing. 
 
We have also undertaken a considerable amount of development to white label our eco
N
 solution for a 
new customer. This has been a considerable engineering task and no solutions revenues were derived 
during the period. There are, however, good opportunities as a result of this development.  It is 
encouraging that this product is taking market share from more established competitors. 
 
The Solutions segment is the core value enhancing activity of the Group and, overall our revenues 
grew by 9.3% during the period. 
 
Engineering Services  
 
This is the segment where Trakm8 undertakes bespoke software development for customers. The 
customer specific application engineering has been a major feature of the product development team 
as the larger customers have demanded their particular requirements. This has also helped improve 
our core products.  
 
These engineering projects provide profitable consultancy activities in themselves, but also help to 
integrate customers to Trakm8 solutions, and provide on-going support and maintenance revenues. 
Projects for Jewson, St Gobain and others have been undertaken in the past 12 months and whilst 
this activity remains a small percentage of the Group revenues it is considered a key differentiator, 
skill and value added capability. 
 
This segment increased by £0.19m over the previous year to £0.41m. 
  
Outlook 
 
The Board is confident that our investments in new products and sales resources will positively impact 
the second half of new financial year and beyond. In the meantime we have a strong pipeline of new 
products and solutions and we are confident that our recurring revenues will carry on growing.  We 
continue to receive inquiries for increasing levels of engineering services work. 
 
The new solutions and agreements we have announced since the year end will provide additional 
revenues and opportunities in the current financial year and after the first two months of trading our 
revenues are ahead of last year.   Trakm8 Holdings PLC 
 
CEO’S STATEMENT (continued) 
 
 
 
 
Company Number 05452547 
 
 
 
7 
 
With our strong balance sheet, good cash generation, and robust business model Trakm8 is in a 
position to consider augmenting growth through selective acquisitions alongside our current organic 
growth strategy. Any acquisition will need to meet our narrow market segment objectives and 
financial criteria.  
 
Finally, I would like to thank all the Trakm8 staff for their tremendous hard work over the past twelve 
months. 
 
 
John Watkins 
CEO 
