 10
www.africanbarrickgold.com
The last 12 months have marked the beginning of a vibrant new chapter 
for our business, for me personally and for many colleagues. Several 
months of preparations culminated in March with the creation of 
ABG and our IPO, turning what was formerly a regional business unit 
of Barrick into a significant independent business. Today, we have a 
mandate to build on our already substantial asset base and strengthen 
our position within the gold mining industry.
Our key focus over this past year has been to ensure that our assets are 
positioned to generate long-term, consistent operating performance. 
This has been evident in the achievements at Bulyanhulu and North 
Mara, the mine life extension at Tulawaka and our determined 
approach to overcoming the challenges at Buzwagi. This marks the 
approach ABG will continue to take with the business, to ensure that it 
can be run consistently and sustainably, to manage business risks and 
to apply all of our available resources to deal with any challenges. This 
underpins our strategy of building growth on a solid operating base and 
adding value for our shareholders.
Throughout the year, we have maintained our absolute commitment 
to operating in a responsible manner in close co-operation with 
our host communities and to ensuring that we further embed the 
culture of health and safety in all our operations and activities. It is 
deeply regrettable that we suffered four fatalities at our Bulyanhulu 
mine during the year. We must learn from these incidents and from 
the thorough investigations we subsequently carried out to reduce 
the possibility of any recurrence. All our financial and operating 
achievements must be judged in the context of our over-riding 
corporate goals of ensuring that everyone goes home safe and healthy 
every day and of making a positive contribution to the areas where we 
operate. We made substantial progress in these goals in 2010, during 
which our mines all achieved one million work hours without lost time 
injuries. This is highly encouraging, but we are conscious that we must 
continue to maintain our focus on achieving constant improvement.
Operating and financial performance
With the positive performances at Bulyanhulu and North Mara, as 
well as the contribution from Tulawaka, we finished the year with 
production of 700,934 ounces of gold at a cash cost of US$569 per 
ounce. With the positive evolution in gold prices over 2010, we are 
pleased to report a robust operating cash flow of US$345 million, 
and a year-end net cash position of US$401 million. We were also 
successful in growing our overall resource base by 3.5% to 26.9 million 
ounces, of which 63% are classified as reserves. However, despite these 
achievements the issues faced at Buzwagi meant that we did not meet 
all of our 2010 targets. As such, resolving the issues at Buzwagi was a 
top priority for our management team during much of 2010, with the 
objective of ensuring that the mine entered 2011 in a position to deliver 
on expectations. 
This work included a number of senior management changes, including 
the Chief Operating Officer and the General Manager at Buzwagi, as 
well as significant additional investment in mining and process plant 
equipment, security infrastructure, personnel hiring and training 
following the discovery of systematic fuel thefts at the site, and a 
significant tightening of security measures. We are confident that these 
initiatives have helped to put the mine back on a more stable footing.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
A strong financial performance
The last 12 months have marked the 
beginning of a new chapter for our 
business. Today, we have a mandate to 
build on our substantial asset base and 
strengthen our position within the gold 
mining industry.
Greg Hawkins
Record operating cash flow
 
US$345 
million Annual Report and Accounts 2010
11
Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview
Driving efficiency and growth
We implemented a range of plans in 2010 to help drive further 
efficiency and growth in our business, and we will continue to invest 
in these in 2011. We aim to reach one million ounces of production per 
year by 2014, representing growth of 40% from 2010 levels. We plan 
to achieve this while also delivering cost-base efficiencies. These are 
fundamental pillars of our focus on creating shareholder value and we 
aim to deliver them by:
•	 optimising our existing assets;
•	 expanding through organic growth; and
•	 growing through acquisitions in Africa. 
Optimising our existing assets 
In order to ensure that our assets remain world class and continue to 
operate at maximum efficiency levels, we continue to undertake a range 
of capital investment measures and efficiency programmes. Against a 
backdrop of cost pressures in the industry, we believe that these will 
help us to continue to operate at or below the midpoint of the industry 
cost curve.
In 2010, these activities included a significant upgrade of the ventilation 
system at Bulyanhulu, fleet expansion at Buzwagi and T ulawaka, and de-
bottlenecking at our North Mara process plant to increase throughput. 
We also significantly streamlined our procurement and supply chain 
functions, as well as re-organising our office in Dar es Salaam. In 2011, 
we have a capital expenditure budget of US$140 million for sustaining 
and development capital, US$24 million for expansion projects and 
US$73 million for waste stripping. Key capital investment projects 
include the water treatment facility at North Mara, the addition of 
pebble ports and back-up generating capacity at our Buzwagi process 
plant, additional underground mining equipment for Tulawaka and 
continued security investment. 
Expanding through organic growth
The optimisation projects for all four of our mine sites remain on track 
to deliver substantial and sustainable additional production within 
four years and we have made encouraging progress on these projects 
throughout 2010. 
At Bulyanhulu, we are continuing to dewater and rehabilitate access to 
the Upper East Zone. The feasibility study for this project is progressing, 
and we expect to finalise it during the first half of 2011. 
At North Mara, we have been encouraged by the drill results below the 
Gokona and Nyabigena pits, where we released an initial high-grade 
resource of 370,000 gold ounces during the fourth quarter of 2010. We 
are targeting expanding this to one million ounces through an intensive 
drill programme in 2011, and the feasibility study for this project is also 
on track to be completed during the first half of 2011. 
As announced in our preliminary results, we are extending the life of 
our Tulawaka mine for the full year 2011 and into the second quarter of 
2012. We will continue our exploration drilling at the site with the aim 
of further increasing the life of mine. If successful, we anticipate this will 
be based solely on the underground operation through the addition of a 
second portal. We expect to provide an update on this later in the year. 
Senior leadership team
Kevin Jennings
(CFO)
Marco Zolezzi 
(COO)
Deodatus Mwanyika
(Vice President
Corporate Affairs)
Peter Spora 
(Vice President Exploration)
Kobus van Vuuren
(Head of Human Resources)
Katrina White
(General Counsel & 
Company Secretary)
Andrew W ray
(Head of Corporate  
Development and  
Investor Relations)
PG Details of the executives are on page 72 12
www.africanbarrickgold.com
More recently, we were pleased to announce an initial mineral resource 
at our Golden Ridge project. The initial resource consists of an indicated 
mineral resource of 527,000 gold ounces with an average grade of 2.94 
grams of gold per tonne and an inferred mineral resource of 152,000 
gold ounces with an average grade of 2.52 grams of gold per tonne. 
We intend to conduct additional exploration work throughout 2011 at 
Golden Ridge in furtherance of these encouraging results and aim to 
complete the feasibility study for the project by mid 2011.
We also made encouraging progress at the greenfield Nyanzaga project 
in 2010 following completion of our acquisition of Tusker Gold, 
notably with the discovery of mineralisation closer to surface as well 
as increasing grades at depth. We are stepping up the drill programme 
in 2011, with the aim of initiating a scoping study later in the year. 
Elsewhere, the main focus of our generative exploration work was in the 
North Mara area along the Gokona Corridor, with some exciting initial 
results that we will follow up on in 2011.
In recognition of the critical importance of organic growth to our long-
term ambitions, we are increasing our total exploration budget in 2011 
to US$55 million, including US$26 million of capitalised expenditure. 
This represents a 103% increase on 2010. 
In addition to our organic growth plans, acquisitions to expand our 
footprint more broadly in Africa remain an important part of our 
strategy. We have undeniable strengths in this area, with substantial 
capital flexibility gained through our cash holdings and credit facility, 
a management structure that will enable us to acquire and develop 
businesses in other parts of Africa, and the operational expertise to add 
value to the assets we acquire. W e analysed a number of targets during 
2010 and we continue to actively seek out opportunities. 
Strengthening our management team
We have continued to strengthen our management team over the 
course of the year, employing and promoting individuals with a track 
record of leadership and the skill set and experience to help take our 
business forward. 
In September, we announced the appointment of Marco Zolezzi as 
our Chief Operating Officer. Marco has significant expertise in running 
mines and bringing complex, large-scale projects through to full 
ramp up. He has been of significant value as we continue to focus on 
delivering consistent performance at our operating mines and driving 
forward our organic growth projects. 
W e also appointed Boyd Timler as General Manager at Buzwagi. Boyd 
has 28 years of mining experience and has been instrumental in defining 
and implementing the action plan used to address issues at the mine 
in 2010. T owards the end of the year, we also appointed Basie Maree as 
General Manager of T ulawaka. Basie brings substantial experience of the 
industry, including a number of years with Anglo American, and will 
lead T ulawaka forward into a new stage of its development.
With these and other appointments, I am confident that we now 
have a management team in place with the necessary experience, 
energy and enthusiasm to further develop the business and deliver 
on ABG’s potential. 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Outlook
As I have already mentioned, 2010 was a year of significant achievement 
while we also faced a number of challenges that impacted production 
and cash cost targets. However, with the measures we have taken, with 
the investments made and with the additional expertise we have added 
to our team, we ended 2010 strongly and enter 2011 with an impressive 
platform on which to build. 
We are aiming to develop the business further through the following 
key objectives for 2011:
•	 achieving attributable Group production between 700,000 and 
760,000 ounces;
•	 maintaining cash cost of between US$590 and US$650 per ounce 
sold, and direct cash operating costs of between US$545 and US$605 
per ounce sold;
•	 increasing Group throughput and recoveries;
•	 completing feasibility studies at our brownfield projects;
•	 achieving growth in our overall resource base;
•	 improving further on our safety record; and
•	 continuing our focus on opportunities for strategic acquisitions 
to expand our footprint throughout Africa.
Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their commitment, 
enthusiasm and hard work throughout what has been an extraordinary 
year in the development of our business. I would also like to thank 
our Board for their unwavering support, their wise counsel and their 
commitment throughout the year. 
Greg Hawkins, Chief Executive Officer
