 8
www.africanbarrickgold.com
enabled the Directors to recommend a final dividend of US3.7 cents 
per Ordinary Share, in addition to the interim dividend of US1.6 cents 
per share that we paid in September.
Throughout 2010, we have focused on continually improving 
productivity and efficiency at our existing operations while reviewing 
opportunities for new sources of value to enhance growth. In this 
way, we have sought to underpin the Company’s long-term future and 
to deliver on our commitment to realise value for our shareholders. 
As we move into 2011, our business strategy will remain to optimise, 
expand and grow. Our ability to deliver on this strategy is based on 
the fundamental strengths described below.
High-quality asset base
In total, over US$2 billion has been invested in the current asset 
base of the Company, and we intend to maintain this commitment 
in the future. This underpins the four operating mines, our range of 
development projects, 26.9 million ounces of reserves and resources, 
and substantial land holdings for exploration.
Dear Shareholders,
It is a privilege to present ABG’s first annual report as a listed Company. 
I am delighted to be able to serve as Chairman of the new Company 
as it establishes its own identity in the public markets. ABG has come 
to market at a time of unprecedented interest in the gold industry, 
against a background of continuing global economic uncertainty. 
We have set some challenging objectives for ourselves to grow the 
business over the medium-to-long term, and I am convinced that we 
have the management team, the asset base and the financial resources 
to deliver on these.
Our first year has not been without challenges, all of which have been 
dealt with decisively by our management team with the full support 
of the Board. Despite these, our production for 2010 was still in excess 
of 700,000 ounces, which enabled us to deliver robust financial results 
for our shareholders. Our revenues were US$975 million, we had an 
operating cash flow of US$345 million and net income of US$218 
million, with a net cash balance in excess of US$400 million at the end 
of the year. This provides us with the significant strategic flexibility we 
need as we look to grow the business in the coming years. It has also 
Chairman’s statement
A quality gold producer
Recommended final dividend (per share)
US 3.7cents
Our first year has not been without 
challenges, all of which have been dealt 
with decisively by our management team 
with the full support of the Board. 
Aaron Regent Annual Report and Accounts 2010
9
Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview
ABG ethics
Our core values are rooted in honesty, integrity, the highest ethical 
standards and a commitment to corporate responsibility. As one of the 
largest foreign investors in Tanzania, we are determined to contribute 
not only to the national economy, but also to the socio-economic 
development of our host communities, leaving a positive legacy 
for future generations. We are committed to operating in a socially 
responsible way over the life cycle of our mines. We recognise that 
fostering strong and mutually beneficial relationships with our host 
communities is critical if we are to secure a ‘social licence to operate’ 
and realise the social and economic opportunities it presents. 
Outlook
As we go into 2011, I remain optimistic about the prospects for our 
industry and I believe that ABG is well positioned to continue to be one 
of the leading players within the African gold mining industry. We must 
apply the lessons learned from the challenges we have already faced and 
overcome to deliver on the potential of our asset base and reward our 
shareholders for their loyalty throughout 2010. 
The coming year will not be without its challenges but I am convinced 
that we have the elements in place to achieve our objectives. Finally, 
I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their hard work, 
dedication and valuable guidance throughout the year, and I look 
forward to reporting again on our progress in 12 months’ time.
Aaron Regent, Chairman
Operational expertise
In Tanzania, we have grown our business from zero production 
to over 700,000 ounces through the acquisition, development and 
operation of four high-quality mines. This experience provides a 
significant competitive advantage when assessing growth opportunities 
throughout Africa.
Experienced leadership and management strength 
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate 
governance. Our Board consists of some of the most respected figures in 
the mining industry. It possesses the expertise, knowledge, experience 
and commitment necessary to help us achieve our business objectives. 
Collectively, the Board sets our standards, values and strategic aims 
and reviews all material strategic issues, financial performance, risk 
management and critical business issues.
Furthermore, at the time of our initial public offering and through 
subsequent additions of talent and expertise throughout the year, 
we have put in place a management team with substantial industry 
experience – critically, one with the capacity both to maximise the value 
of our existing assets and to deliver the growth we have targeted.
Growth potential
Our existing mines offer a number of additional opportunities to 
grow their existing production levels. Coupled with other greenfield 
potential, such as the Nyanzaga Project, and our capability and appetite 
for acquisitions, we have a range of growth options for the business.
Balance sheet
With a production platform successfully generating strong cash flows, 
over US$400 million of net cash and an unused US$150 million credit 
facility, we have significant balance sheet strength and the flexibility 
needed both to carry out our organic growth plans and to realistically 
assess acquisition opportunities.
Our supportive majority shareholder
We have access to industry-leading expertise and a strong talent pool to 
augment our own resources through our relationship with our majority 
shareholder, Barrick. We believe that this provides an important source 
of advantage over our competitors.
As we go into 2011, I remain optimistic about the prospects for 
our industry and I believe that ABG is well positioned to continue 
to be one of the leading players within it.
