 34
www.africanbarrickgold.com
Operationally, 2010 has seen unprecedented levels of activity for ABG. 
For the first time, all four of our mines were operational for the full year, 
although we faced certain challenges in our operating environment 
that impacted on our overall Group production levels. Nonetheless, 
our Group production for the year was 700,934 ounces. 
With respect to our cash costs for the year, we saw a 7% increase over 
2009 to US$569 per ounce sold. The increase was primarily due to lower-
than-expected production levels at Buzwagi, increased costs incurred 
at the mine and industry cost pressures generally. Cash costs of US$55 
per tonne milled for the year were slightly lower than the 2009 figure of 
US$57 per tonne, primarily as a result of the overall incremental increase 
in tonnes milled from open pit operations. 
ABG sold 724,083 gold ounces for the year, up by 6% on 2009 (683,687 
ounces), despite the decrease in our overall production. The increase 
was driven by the sale of concentrate ounces on hand at Bulyanhulu and 
Buzwagi at the end of 2009. 
W e mined 40.0 million tonnes of ore and waste for the year, compared to 
36.8 million in 2009. The increase was driven primarily by the focus on 
waste-stripping at the Gokona open pit, in order to access high-grade ore 
from 2012.
Chief Operating Officer’s review
Driving process and performance
Operationally, 2010 has seen 
unprecedented levels of activity for ABG. 
For the first time, all four of our mines 
were operational for the full year, although 
we faced a number of challenges in our 
operating environment that impacted on 
our overall Group production levels. 
Marco Zolezzi
 2010 2009 % V ariance
Operating results  
T onnes mined (thousands of tonnes) 40,016 36,781 9%
Ore tonnes processed (thousands 
of tonnes) 7,706 6,546 18%
Recovery rate (percent) 86.1% 87.0% (1%)
Average grade (grams per tonne) 3.3 3.9 (15%)
Attributable gold production
1
 
(ounces) 700,934 716,306 -2%
Attributable gold sold
1
 (ounces) 724,083 683,687 6%
Copper production  
(thousands of pounds) 7,958 6,788 17%
Cash cost per tonne milled
2
 (US$/t) 55 57 4%
Per ounce data (US$/Oz)  
– Average spot gold price
3
1,225 972 26%
– Average realised gold price
2
1,240 974 27%
– Cash cost per ounce sold
2
569 533 7%
–  Amortisation and costs per 
ounce sold
2
147 128 15%
–  Total production costs per  
ounce sold 716 661 8%
Key initiatives and priorities for 2011
•	 Deliver maximum sustainable production and cost discipline
•	 Maintain focus on best leadership, management and 
technical practices
•	 Continue the enhancement of site security infrastructure 
and processes
•	 Build on improvements to health and safety systems 
and processes
•	 Continue the development of training for workforce and 
local communities 
•	 Translate strategy into capital allocation, optimise capital 
allocation and realise key business opportunities
1  Production and sold ounces reflect equity ounces which exclude 30% of Tulawaka’s 
production base. 
2  Cash cost per tonne milled, average realised gold price per ounce sold, cash cost per 
ounce sold, amortisation and other costs per ounce and total production cost per ounce 
are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS. 
Refer to ‘Non IFRS measures’ on page 54 for definitions. 
3  Reflects the London PM fix price.
 The statistical information above includes non-IFRS measures. An explanation of Non-
IFRS measures is included on page 54. An explanation of mine statistical information is 
included on page 168. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
35
Overview Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Performance
T onnes of ore processed for the year totalled 7.7 million, an 18% increase 
on 2009 levels (6.5 million tonnes). The increase was mainly driven by 
increased throughput at North Mara and at Buzwagi compared to the 
prior period, which only reflected eight months’ production at Buzwagi. 
The average grade for the year was 3.3 grams of gold per tonne, 15% lower 
than the prior year period. The decrease was due to three key issues: the 
processing of low-grade stockpiles at Buzwagi in the third and fourth 
quarters; the lower grade of the transitional ore processed overall at 
Buzwagi when compared to the oxide material mined during 2009; and 
the low-grade stockpiles processed throughout the year at T ulawaka. 
Our copper production for the year of eight million pounds represents 
a 17% increase on 2009, which only reflected eight months of production 
at Buzwagi. 
Bulyanhulu delivered in line with expectations throughout the year; 
however, it was deeply regrettable that we suffered three fatalities as a result 
of a rock fall in March as well as a further fatality from a non-mining related 
accident later in the year. As Greg has noted, it is imperative that we learn 
from these incidents and from the thorough investigations we subsequently 
carried out to ensure that there is no recurrence. 
North Mara delivered production ahead of budget and at a slightly 
lower cash cost per ounce sold, when compared to 2009. In addition, the 
announcement of a high-grade initial underground resource beneath the 
planned final Gokona and Nyabigena open pits highlights the potential 
for North Mara both to extend its mine life and to add significant ounces 
to ABG’ s production base going forward.
T ulawaka has continued to outperform its original feasibility study for 
its underground operation, with an initial extension of its life-of-mine, 
through to the second quarter of 2012. During the year, we also invested 
in the infrastructure of the operation, particularly its mobile fleet, to 
ensure consistency of production and continuing profitability.
At Buzwagi, a number of challenges impacted production and cash 
costs at the mine. In the first part of the year, the layer of transitional 
ore between the oxide cap and the primary sulphide ore proved to be 
both slightly deeper than expected and of a higher grind index. This 
caused a number of equipment failures in the process plant, which were 
compounded by a series of unscheduled power outages that negatively 
impacted production. In addition, during the third quarter we uncovered 
an organised and systematic onsite fuel theft, which had a further 
impact on production at the mine. Investigations indicated that criminal 
fuel theft syndicates had widely infiltrated our mining department. In 
response, we suspended approximately 60 employees and a number of 
contractors, representing over 40% of mining department personnel. 
Unfortunately, the reduction in mining capacity further delayed the 
mining of higher-grade ore and the processing of low-grade stockpiles.
W e implemented a series of measures to address these issues during the 
year. These included:
•	 strengthening the senior management team with Boyd Timler’ s 
appointment as General Manager;
•	 bringing forward mining fleet expansion from 2011 to accelerate stage 
two mining;
•	 optimising the drill-and-blast programme in the open pit;
•	 hiring and training replacement mining personnel following the  
fuel theft;
•	 recommissioning the sulphur plant and optimising the flotation plant;
•	 ordering additional pebble ports and back-up generating power for 
2011; and
•	 conducting a full site security review, and implementing additional 
security measures.
Overall, we are confident that the measures undertaken in 2010 will 
have a positive long-term impact at Buzwagi. In addition, our recent 
announcement of an initial mineral resource at our Golden Ridge project 
underpins our belief and confidence in the potential of this project to 
become a significant satellite operation to the Buzwagi mine in the future.
The stability of power supply posed a number of challenges to production 
throughout 2010. We anticipate sporadic interruptions in power 
supply throughout 2011 and will continue to monitor this issue and the 
impact that this may have on our production levels closely throughout 
the forthcoming year. So far, we have made progress in connecting 
Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi and North Mara to the national grid system 
(T ulawaka remains exclusively diesel powered). Currently, we maintain 
back up diesel power generating capacity at Bulyanhulu and North Mara, 
in order to mitigate the risks posed by power supply interruptions at 
our largest operations and we expect to install 6MW of backup power at 
Buzwagi by mid 2011. From a State perspective, TANESCO continues to 
expand its transmission network and its generating capacity to meet the 
increasing energy demands of the growing T anzanian economy. W e have 
been, and will continue to be, supportive of this expansion through our 
on-going relationship with TANESCO. An overview of our relationship 
with TANESCO is provided on pages 18, 19 and 83.
In addition, the recent shortage of rainfall in T anzania has raised the 
possibility that there could be a reduction in the availability of electricity 
generated from hydropower which may impact our operations if, as a 
result, total electricity supply is insufficient to meet demand. W e will 
continue to monitor this development and the impact that it may have 
on our operations. 
Further details on our initiatives to address power supply and the risks 
that power stoppages, shortages and interruption of utilities supply have 
on our operations have been provided on pages 18, 19, 60, 67 and 68.
As discussed at the time of our IPO, the North Mara MDA and mining 
licence are due to expire on 7 September 2011. Applications to renew 
both of these agreements were submitted in the third quarter of 2010. W e 
expect the renewal of the MDA to be on the same terms as the existing 
agreements and for the remainder of North Mara’ s life of mine. 
Looking forward, we believe that we are well positioned to deliver on the 
potential of the Company’ s asset base as we enter 2011. This year, our 
focus will remain on achieving operational excellence in order to deliver 
stable and profitable production levels. 
Marco Zolezzi, Chief Operating Officer
