 Strategic  
Report:
Operational 
Review 14–21
Corporate 
Governance 
  
 22–37
Financial 
Statements 
  
 38–78
Strategic  
Report:  
Business  
Model  2–13
3/
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
REVIEW
THE SIZE OF CUSTOMERS  
WE HAVE BEEN SIGNING AND  
THE SCALE OF DEPLOYMENTS 
THEY ARE PLANNING GIVES  
US CONFIDENCE.
David Williams
Chief Executive
2014 was the first full year of HYLAS 2 revenues and the first of a 
carefully planned five year programme to sell its extensive capacity. 
This helped us to increase revenues by 104% to $65.6 million and 
to generate EBITDA of $1.7 million (before the non-cash share based 
payment charge). Transitioning to EBITDA positive and signing 
contracts with some of the biggest telcos and media companies in 
our region is a powerful indicator that we have superior, well priced 
products and are able to sell to the most demanding customers. 
Over the course of the year we saw increasing numbers of large 
customers moving from framework contracts to fixed term 
capacities. The rate at which existing customers increased their 
contract values (“repeat rate”) was an encouraging 52% and the 
number of days from initial enquiry to signing (“pipeline”) was 98, 
which demonstrates that the sales cycle is shortening considerably 
as our products become more firmly established in the market.  
We signed 92 new contracts in the year. A continuation of our 
99.99% SLA is a strong reason why new customers are coming  
to our network and existing customers are buying more.
There are two important elements to the story of our year: the 
growth in the customer base and the financing of HYLAS 4.
Customers
Revenue growth remains the most important focus for us. This is 
being achieved via a customer acquisition strategy that has been 
consistent and successful since the outset.
Our products have been designed to provide a cloud of data capacity 
that has maximum quality and flexibility, and broad coverage of 
EMEA, with a particular focus on Sub-Saharan Africa, which  
now accounts for more than 80% of our capacity. We are able to 
support our large telecommunications company customers in the 
widest possible range of applications they seek, greatly exceeding 
the quality and flexibility that they have seen from legacy satellite 
fleets. Customers access the fleet through proprietary software 
called Avanti OSS, and this enables them to scale and change their 
business with unparalleled flexibility. We have a number of patents 
and are pursuing others to protect our innovations.
We achieved early success in selling to specialist service providers, 
referred to in the industry as “VSAT providers”. VSAT providers have 
used our product for enterprise and government networks, media 
services and some regional broadband deployments. Nine of the 
top 20 VSAT providers in our regions now buy Avanti capacity,  
so we know we have generated a loyal and committed customer 
base in this market and continue to work hard to help them to grow. 
As a result, much of our new business this year has been won away 
from legacy technology as old capacity leases matured.  4/
Avanti Communications Group plc: Annual Report and Accounts 2014
We have a lot of capacity to fill – a Ka-band satellite typically has 
around 5–10 times more available Megabits than a Ku-band 
satellite, per tonne, and this drives its price down to levels that are 
attractive to customers. In order to fill that capacity, we need to 
access the large scale international distribution that only major 
telecommunication companies and Mobile Network Operators 
(“MNOs”) can offer. The products of interest here are broadband  
for consumers and SMEs, and cellular backhaul for MNOs.
We have had success this year in finally penetrating these markets. 
We created a world first in providing 3G backhaul to MNOs,  
and have also successfully deployed 4G backhaul for the UK 
government. With Vodafone and Smart launching our backhaul 
products on long term contracts, several other large MNOs  
now piloting the technology at an advanced stage and some 
proceeding to issue RFPs, this market is maturing for us.
We began deployments in the year for a number of national 
incumbent telco operators. Telone in Zimbabwe has grown its 
usage quickly, and we recently announced a contract with Orange 
Kenya Telecom. We also signed contracts with some of the largest 
alternative service providers in the regions like Wananchi, the 
largest media provider in East Africa, and Internet Solutions 
(Dimension Data) the largest pan African ISP . 
The progress of large contracts from pilot, through business  
case evaluation to negotiation and closure, has often been slow. 
However, we have maintained firm discipline in our pricing model 
with our average price remaining above the $2,000 per MHz per 
month that we set in 2008 and we continue to focus on promoting 
our Quality and Flexibility advantages. 
HYLAS 4 rationale
There were four elements in our decision to finance HYLAS 4:
1. Continuity of capacity
We have demonstrated an ability to access the large latent demand 
for our services through some of the contracts we signed in the 
year. It will take perhaps another three years for those contracts to 
fully saturate our in orbit capacities, but at that point we would risk 
becoming an ex-growth business unless we build further capacity.
One of the challenges of the space business is that it takes three to 
four years to design, build, launch and commission a new satellite, 
so it is important that we continue to look far ahead. Current rates 
of repeat business and new customer acquisition suggest that by 
2017 there is a realistic probability that existing capacities will be 
substantially full. The relatively small HYLAS 3 payload we are flying 
on an ESA satellite gives us some ability to expand, but without 
expansion capacity across territories, there is a risk that the 
business at that point would be waiting several years for its next 
major growth inflection. We also need to assure our customers  
of continuity and security of service over the longer term.
HYLAS 4 provides the solution, with new capacity over new countries 
in Africa as well as new capacity over existing territories in Africa 
and Europe that can be used for back up and expansion. We 
believe that the announcement of our provision of expansion and 
back up capacity on HYLAS 4 has already had an impact in some 
new customers signing with us.
2. Opportunities from multinational customers
Almost all of our customers in Sub-Saharan Africa are multinational 
within that region. We conducted a survey to ask them in which 
countries they are active or for which they would like to see Avanti 
launch capacity, and designed HYLAS 4 coverage accordingly.  
Our fleet now covers 13 of the world’s 20 fastest growing 
economies and 27% of the global population. The Sub-Saharan 
region includes 1 billion people but currently has internet 
penetration of just 16%. McKinsey predicts that GDP from Internet 
business in Africa will rise from $18 billion to $300 billion (2025), 
considerably outstripping the global trend of 33% CAGR in data 
usage. We see it as strategically important to make sure that we  
are in a position to capitalise on all of the demand in Sub-Saharan 
Africa, not just part of it. Given that this is the most exciting high 
growth region in the world, it is likely that our focus on Africa will 
remain the limit of our geographic ambition for the time being.
3. Limited competition
There is very little competition for our products because the 
incumbent satellite operators remain broadly conservative about 
moving out of their traditional TV markets and into high quality 
telecoms, and where they are beginning to move in a small way, 
they are using different business models which we believe 
preserves our Quality and Flexibility advantage in our target 
markets. This means that we have prime mover advantage.  
The unmet demand for data across Africa is very large and our 
customers want service in additional countries, therefore the 
opportunity to drive forward our prime mover advantage is 
strategically appealing.
4. Efficient financing
As a result of the bond re-financing we completed in 2013, we were 
able to approach the bond market for an addition to the existing 
facility in a very efficient way. We were also fortunate to come to  
the bond market at a moment in time when investors were very 
supportive. Finally, we were able to launch the HYLAS 4 project 
with no equity capital, thereby protecting shareholders from dilution. 
 
When choosing to finance HYLAS 4, we used base case 
assumptions that would generate an IRR of 29%. The financing  
and procurement strategies were carefully designed to manage 
risk, match capital to liabilities and, most importantly, to maximise 
value for shareholders. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
REVIEW CONTINUED Strategic  
Report:
Operational 
Review 14–21
Corporate 
Governance 
  
 22–37
Financial 
Statements 
  
 38–78
Strategic  
Report:  
Business  
Model  2–13
5/
HYLAS 4 financing strategy
The “tap-on” bond that we issued in June is sufficient to cover  
our capital commitments because in procurement we achieved a 
limitation of liability of $81 million. Thus, if the capital markets were 
not open around October 2015, we could pause the project for as 
long as necessary. That downside protection was important in our 
structuring but the intention remains to complete the financing  
on time. As part of the tap-on, we gained consent to issue up to  
$125 million in additional bonds, which can therefore be done very 
quickly when the time is right, the only variable being the price the 
market will apply at the time. In order to access the third tranche of 
bonds of up to $125 million, we will also issue up to $100 million of 
Junior Capital. This is defined as any form of capital which has a 
maturity date beyond the bonds, does not pay cash interest and is 
unsecured and structurally subordinated to the bonds.
The success we achieved in procuring HYLAS 4 efficiently means 
that the remaining capital requirement is likely to be 10%–20% 
lower than originally contemplated.
Other achievements
During the year we acquired the ARTEMIS satellite and associated 
spectrum and concluded the first significant new sale of capacity. 
ARTEMIS’ primary function is to communicate with other 
spacecraft in orbit. ARTEMIS revenues are by their nature derived 
from short term projects and are unpredictable, but we expect the 
satellite to yield a good return.
Outlook
Whilst revenue growth this year was strong, there were delays  
to projects from the first half that slipped into the second half of  
the year, and some large up front elements of both revenues and 
costs were therefore taken in the second half. As we grow, we 
expect the susceptibility of the business to the effects of one-off  
set up costs and our dependence on a small number of large 
contracts will diminish.
The size of the customers we have been signing, and the scale  
of the deployments they are planning, gives us confidence that 
utilisation will continue to grow towards our long term target during 
the coming year. Revenues for the first quarter are expected to be 
around the average of the last year, with new contracts driving into 
growth in subsequent quarters.
David Williams
Chief Executive
