 Dear Shareholder, 
What a difference a year makes, when, as in the case of Trifast, business dynamics start to build momentum. 
Over the past three years, our teams have focused on ‘working smarter’ in relation to suppliers, customers, buy/sell margin 
and non value-add costs and resources, latterly employing the Pareto (80/20) principle e.g. 80% of our profit coming from 
only 20% of our customers – so making sure that we don’t become ‘busy fools’!
The encouraging outcome from these efforts has been to reduce our overall overheads as a % of Revenue from 23% in 
2010 to 19% for this 2013 financial year end, and to increase underlying Group pre-tax profit by 45% against 2012, with 
85% of EBITDA* being yielded in cash from operations.
We acknowledge that this ‘self-help’ business focus has moved on from being a recovery strategy that started in early 
2010 to becoming a permanent key element of the now ingrained ‘Continuous Improvement’ culture that we know has the 
potential to deliver still further process improvements going forward.
Your Board structure has been streamlined from six Executive Directors to five; post the year end we then welcomed the 
addition of Scott Mac Meekin as our third Independent Non-Executive Director. Scott’s Asian and US fastener experience 
coupled with his strategic capabilities adds further strength to our team.
We have much to report upon with regard to operational developments around the Group. These include:
 Important new Global manufacturing licences granted by both Philips Screw Co. and Acument 
 First major trading links with Russia and South Korea 
 Exciting new product range launches of plastic fasteners and metal spacing pillars 
 Expansion of our India business 
 New headquarters for our expanding Swedish operations 
 Investment in sophisticated automation enabling us to adopt ‘zero-defect philosophy’ within product quality out of our 
Singapore and Malaysian factories – with Taiwan targeted for 2014 
 Both our Southern and Northern Ireland operations enjoying steady growth in a tough environment and,
 Our restructured US location starting to out-perform on profitability, having just enlarged its warehouse facilities with an 
additional unit in Houston.
As Directors, we are particularly pleased with the jump in profitability between March 2012 and March 2013. We remain 
committed to the pursuit of shareholder value, and as part of this, see many reasons that point to further ‘bottom-line’ 
growth for the foreseeable future; whilst we also continue to pursue ‘no nonsense earnings enhancing bolt-on acquisitions’, 
we can demonstrate that by focusing determinedly on our existing assets and resources, quantum leap improvements in 
performance are achievable.
As always, we appreciate your loyalty and support to our Company, and in return  
we will continue to do our best to maintain open, honest and regular communication  
on how we are managing your investment.
Yours sincerely
Malcolm Diamond MBE
Executive Chairman
Chairman’s Message
30 July 2013 Trifast plc
Trifast House, 
Bellbrook Park, Uckfield, 
East Sussex, TN22 1QW 
Tel: +44 (0)1825 747366 
Fax: +44 (0)1825 747368
email: corporate.enquiries@trifast.com
Website: www.trifast.com
Stock Code: TRI
03
Trifast plc Annual Report 2013 Visit our Corporate website
www.trifast.com
Strong leadership 
Experienced and motivated people
Total logistics resource
Technical engineering specialists
Quality of Service
Global sales capability
“The global market for 
fasteners is vast and 
remains fragmented; 
there is an opportunity 
for smaller more flexible 
players like ourselves 
to be strategic 
consolidators”
Jim Barker
Chief Executive
 
Our Business
04 Thinking locally, operating globally
7
High quality
low cost
manufacturing
sites
50
Global logistics
capability to over
countries
23
Business locations
within North
America, Europe 
and Asia
For information about Behind 
the Scenes see page
20
05
