 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
CHAIRMAN’S & CEO’S STATEMENT
The Trifast Board, management and staff take pride in reporting an impressive track 
record of Total Shareholder Return (TSR) since early 2009, especially when compared to 
the two relevant FTSE indices shown below for the same period.
1000%
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Trifast plc FTSE Fledgling Index FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering Index
800%
600%
400%
200%
0%
In March 2009, the share price was languishing at around 8p; during this year being 
reported, the share price traded between 57p and 87p giving a market capitalisation at 
31 March 2014 of £94.6 million (1 April 2013: £61.7m). As at 12 June 2014 the Group’s 
share price closed at 127p, thus taking the market capitalisation from below £10 million 
in 2009 to over £141 million. This quantum leap in value is testament that our investors 
support our growth strategy and aspirations (recently underpinned with our largest 
acquisition in history which extends our offering and European footprint). This together 
with reasonable ongoing share trading liquidity has enabled Trifast shares to be promoted 
from the Fledgling index to be included within the FTSE Small Cap and FTSE All-share 
indices, from 23 June 2014. This inclusion widens the category of potential institutional 
investors. We consider that our enhanced profile coupled with our tangibly progressive 
dividend policy has positioned us firmly within the investor fraternity, whilst providing 
powerful motivation to our entire workforce to drive the business even harder for the 
immediate and medium term future.
Keith Sandells
TR’s design & application engineering skills
Stock Code: TRI
Trifast plc Annual Report 2014
12 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Whilst pleased with this year’s organic 
growth results, we have openly expressed 
our objective to accelerate expansion 
by strategic acquisitions; we have also 
committed to applying strict criteria 
to the structure and current/potential 
performance of selected targets. Although 
at any one time there is always at least 
one target under scrutiny, our selectivity 
clearly restricts our commitment to 
finalising a transaction; however, there are 
sufficient opportunities in our market for 
us to remain confident that continuing our 
search remains entirely legitimate. 
This search for the ‘right’ acquisition has 
been highly active over a two year period 
since acquiring PSEP in Malaysia at the 
end of the 2011 calendar, and post the 
financial year end culminated in extending 
our business through the acquisition of 
Viterie Italia Centrale Srl (‘VIC’) in Italy 
which we completed on 30 May 2014. 
More detail about this acquisition can be 
found on pages 19 and 50.
Meanwhile, our ongoing ‘self help’ 
initiatives continue to make material 
improvements around the business 
particularly with gross margins — thus 
providing tangible impetus to our ongoing 
financial progress.
WHERE OUR ORGANIC GROWTH 
‘HOTSPOTS’ ARE DEVELOPING
ASEAN Region (comprises Singapore, 
Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, 
Philippines and Indonesia)
The ASEAN Free Trade Area (‘AFTA’) is 
now revealing opportunities for TR as new 
factory investments are starting to favour 
the region, sometimes as an alternative to 
China. Part of local government incentives 
depend on the requirement for new 
participating beneficiary companies to 
source a minimum of 40% of materials and 
components from within the AFTA region. 
TR has two fastener factories in Malaysia 
and one in Singapore, thus providing a 
steady flow of potential new assembly 
customers moving into the region — 
sometimes from China.
For this reason, TR has strengthened 
personnel resources by setting up a 
subsidiary in Thailand and has registered 
for VAT in order to allow local currency 
invoicing. Our main sector targets are 
automotive (two and four wheel) and 
electronics (mainly consumer).
Once again, we congratulate 
and thank all of our colleagues 
around the world for these 
outstanding results yielded with 
less than a 1% increase in staff 
numbers employed”
Taiwan
Our operation in this region, Special 
Fasteners Engineering Co Ltd (‘SFE’) is 
already a strategic supplier to fastener 
distributors in Europe and the USA 
plus TR Fastenings as a group. Due to 
competitive pricing, quality and service for 
manufacturing specialised components, 
SFE is enjoying both full capacity and 
sufficient Return On Capital Employed 
(‘ROCE’) to actively seek opportunities to 
increase capacity of both buildings and 
plant, and these initiatives have gained full 
Trifast Board support.
Shanghai
Following extensive product and 
engineering training from TR colleagues 
in Europe last year, our Shanghai team 
(TR Formac) is gaining increasing 
business from sister plants of our existing 
automotive Tier 1 customers who are 
already long established with TR within 
Europe. This validates one of our core 
growth strategies set five years ago to 
develop global multi-national assembly 
customers that we can follow from 
country to country. The rising cost-driven 
trend for the major car manufacturers 
to establish ‘global platforms’ (the most 
costly component to developing the 
main floor pan) for example, the new 
imminent Ford medium saloon broadens 
our opportunities to offer common 
platform components, such as reclining 
seat bolts on a global basis ultimately to 
plants in Asia, Europe and the USA where 
uniformity of price, quality and availability is 
a minimum requirement to gain orders.
Shanghai is also gaining the benefit from 
mobile phone base station renewals as 
4G technology supplants 3G, where the 
hardware is substantially different.
Our forecasting for the next three years 
reflects our confidence in the ongoing 
growth from both automotive and 
electronics sector dynamics within China.
Malcolm Diamond MBE & Jim Barker
Keith Sandells
Our ongoing ‘self help’ 
initiatives continue 
to make material 
improvements around the 
business particularly with 
gross margins”
Jim Barker
Chief Executive
www.trifast.com
13 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
MANUFACTURING  
& DISTRIBUTION
Manufacturing 24%
Distribution – TR Direct 6%
Distribution – Lancaster 3%
Distribution – OEM 67%
GROUP SALES BY SECTOR 
As at March 2014
Automotive 35%
Electronics 22%
Distributors 11%
Domestic Applicances 8%
Other 24%
Singapore
Despite being in a high cost country, TR 
Formac Singapore continues to deliver 
strong margins, and for this reason 
our earlier thoughts of transferring the 
manufacturing facility across the border to 
Malaysia have been discounted as we now 
focus on new customer potential around 
the AFTA region, with particular emphasis 
on South Korea and Thailand.
Malaysia
Power Steel & Electroplating Works 
SDN (Bhd) (‘PSEP’) continues to expand 
its capabilities with high tech larger 
components as a key resource within 
TR, especially to automotive customers. 
Sales activity is now beginning to embrace 
Thailand as a key future potential  
market opportunity.
In order to prepare for anticipated 
expansion of demand for safety critical 
automotive components in the region, 
approval has been given for investing in an 
additional new large diameter cold forging 
machine to be installed.
This £1 million machine is a ‘Best of 
Breed’ multi-stage parts former weighing 
42 tonnes. Manufactured in Japan this 
investment will provide a quantum leap in 
our production capability with regard to 
complexity and accuracy of customised 
components.
USA
Our relatively new Houston location for 
TR Fastenings Inc continues to expand 
its resources, both with extra personnel 
and enlarged warehousing; we anticipate 
that there will be a year of consolidation 
in order to service the emergence of 
automotive opportunities arising from the 
increasing globalisation of component 
specification where TR already is supplying 
sister plants in Europe and Asia.
Our forecasting for the next 
three years reflects our 
confidence in ongoing growth 
from both automotive and 
electronics sector dynamics 
within China”
UK and mainland Europe
Following on from an excellent 
performance in the year under review, 
all of our UK, Ireland and mainland 
European business teams expect this 
trend to continue, driven substantially by 
automotive new model production start 
dates running from mid-2014 into 2015 
as a result of exhaustive work involving 
concept and application engineering, 
estimating, quoting, prototyping and 
component testing undertaken as far back 
as winter 2012. Although the development 
cycle of new specifications can be as long 
as two years or more before production 
invoicing commences, these types of 
contracts tend to run for the lifetime of the 
vehicle, typically five to seven years. As 
a result, this restricts competitive activity 
to a relatively limited number of fastener 
suppliers who have the financial and 
engineering resources to cope with this 
level of complexity and delay, and even 
less, who can offer support on a global 
scale. We believe that this limited choice 
of alternatives to TR has, and continues to 
contribute to our organic growth.
CHAIRMAN’S & CEO’S STATEMENT continued
Large Diameter Cold forging machine for PSEP
Stock Code: TRI
Trifast plc Annual Report 2014
14 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
TR Sweden had a particularly good 
year in terms of sales growth, profit and 
cash generation. This was in both the 
automotive and telecoms sectors, and TR 
Holland likewise enjoyed sales growth both 
in automotive and domestic appliances, 
whilst TR Hungary’s growth has been 
predominantly in electronics.
The only division that has struggled is 
TR Norway, mainly due to the demise 
of traditional business emigrating to 
lower cost countries. However, much 
preparatory work has been done both on 
the supply and sales side to develop our 
business into the oil and gas industries 
which are so prevalent in the Norwegian 
economy; this new diversification is also 
proving to be relevant to our Scottish 
and Houston teams. We expect this 
sector focus switch to begin yielding both 
revenue and profit positive results  
by mid 2015.
Meanwhile, the electronics and white 
goods sectors show tangible evidence 
of recovery within Europe, which TR 
should benefit from, due to its strong 
presence in the electronics sector and the 
recent acquisition of VIC which operates 
predominantly in the white goods sector.
‘CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT’
In last year’s Report we highlighted the 
focus on sales, profit and cash, and also 
the adoption of the 80/20 Pareto Principle 
by each of the 15 UK and mainland 
Europe business team locations. This has 
been a major contributor to the profitability 
and cash generation improvement across 
all of these business teams and is now a 
constituent part of our routine operational 
disciplines and processes. This concept 
that ‘80% of our results come from 20% 
of our activity’ has been widely accepted 
and is part of our induction and training 
programmes for everyone in the business.
It was also indicated that more sales 
applications engineers would be recruited; 
since then, we have added four new 
and experienced experts to the global 
automotive team. With clear geographic 
segmentation and targeted product 
category sales activity these developments 
and strategy rollout are reflected in this 
year’s results. The product launch of 
plastic fasteners as a stand-alone new 
sector has proven very successful and has 
become a meaningful part of our growth 
strategy that is measured and reported to 
the Board on a monthly basis.
Maria Johnson, Ian Carlton, Stevie Meiklem, Dave Fisk, Helen Toole, Colin Coddington, TR UK Management Board
Sales
+1%
Total 
Costs
-1%
Net Prot
= +20%
10 12
90 89
100 101
1
2
3
source: John Winkler 
cost model example shows, if: 
sales of £100m: +1% 
variable costs of 50%: -1% 
fixed costs of 40%: -1% 
= +20% in profit
With clear geographic 
segmentation and targeted 
product category sales 
activity these developments 
and strategy rollout are 
reflected in this year’ s 
results”
www.trifast.com
15 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
Ongoing margin improvement has been 
achieved by innovative Group sourcing 
policies, key vendor consolidation and 
freight and packaging efficiencies. Further 
software enhancements to our global sales 
enquiry portal during last year is enabling 
all new major Group potential contracts 
to be monitored at Board level at the time 
of quoting. This is a risk management 
process to ensure that our teams resist 
any price pressure that could result in 
them being tempted to apply sub-optimal 
margins in order to gain an order more 
easily. This direct ‘power of veto’ has been 
the main driver behind cost modelling 
enhancements and improving buy/sell 
margins with major OEM customers. 
Our mission is to sell ‘total installed cost 
reduction’, whilst the actual component 
price is usually only a small part of  
that equation. 
It is for this reason that our marketing 
strategy for large volume OEM assemblers 
has been focused on senior management 
who are in a position to calculate the 
indirect costs of ‘Goods In’ processing 
and storage, deployment of components 
to the line, the cost of shortages and 
quality issues to production continuity, 
and the benefits of TR engineers assisting 
in new product optimum design and 
application. Whereas the procurement 
personnel are invariably only measured on 
price, which during the recent prolonged 
five year downturn has forced many 
component producers out of business. 
The irony that is developing, as recovery 
now slowly builds momentum, is that there 
are clear signs of restricted capacity in 
some component sectors, thus inevitably 
replacing the focus on lowest price with 
best availability. It is for this reason that 
the Board consider further investment in 
production capacity is timely.
Management development and succession 
planning is progressing on two levels. 
The TR Fastenings UK Board that was 
established in June 2013 has met regularly 
and proven effective in co-ordinating 
the key functions of sales, inventory 
management, finance, quality, HR and 
IT. The Management Development 
Programme for all UK and European 
Business Unit Managers is providing 
the dual benefit of improving overall 
business skills and awareness whilst at 
the same time enhancing the teamwork 
across numerous locations, an essential 
requirement for effectively supporting 
sister plants of multi-national OEMs where 
consistency of service, quality and price is a 
minimum in gaining preferred vendor status.
GROUP STRATEGIC OVERVIEW 
The global fastener market has been 
estimated to exceed £25 billion per year 
and growing at a CAGR of 5% until 
2022; therefore, current market share 
for Trifast is not a fundamentally relevant 
metric, but nevertheless clearly points 
to the huge opportunities ahead for 
growth by marketing our relatively unique 
combination of low cost/high quality 
manufacturing, global logistics resources 
and engineering design and application — 
predominantly to global OEMs.
Although supplying multi-national OEMs 
is our foundation business model that 
currently yields 40% of Group revenue, this 
strategy is underpinned by five additional 
target markets (previously described as 
‘strings to our bow’).
CHAIRMAN’S & CEO’S STATEMENT continued
Hayley Neilly
Promoting the TR brand is essential
Matthew Swainback
Stock Code: TRI
Trifast plc Annual Report 2014
16 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
TR’s high quality manufacturing in Asia
Sophisticated automated component inspection
Lee Turner
Production of a Hank Bush
www.trifast.com
17 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
Steve Rex
CHAIRMAN’S & CEO’S STATEMENT continued
These are:
•	 TR Branded products  
(specialised components for sheet 
metal, PCBs and plastic mouldings) 
supplied mainly to distributors in the 
UK, Europe and the USA
•	 TR Direct 
standardised ‘off the shelf’ fasteners for 
next day delivery to OEMs in the UK
•	 Lancaster Fastener Company 
expanding range of catalogued 
standard and specialised fasteners for 
next day delivery to distributors in the 
UK, Europe and beyond
•	 Plastic fasteners and spacers 
for global OEMs — available both from 
inventory and to customer specification
•	 Manufacturing licences 
acquired for specialised highly 
engineered large volume fastener 
applications for automotive and 
electronics OEM multi-nationals
The Management team is confident that 
this combination of strategic and dynamic 
business streams is not only driving our 
current organic growth, but will continue to 
do so for the foreseeable future; moreover, 
as the fastener supply sector remains 
highly fragmented, there is ample scope 
for consolidation by acquisition.
Following the successful acquisition of 
Malaysian based PSEP in December 
2011, the Board has committed to the 
ongoing search for additional earnings 
enhancing acquisitions that deliver both 
a cultural and strategic fit with TR. During 
the year, we engaged closely with two 
opportunities, one a European distributor 
and the other, a US based manufacturer.
Although both were eminently strong 
culturally and strategically, unfortunately, 
after due diligence was undertaken, we 
failed to complete the transactions on the 
basis of current profitability and inadequate 
strategic and tactical resources for forward 
profit growth. 
Plastic fasteners now a core product
Agim Nela
Stock Code: TRI
Trifast plc Annual Report 2014
18 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
We are very clear in openly declaring that 
we do not want to risk investor funds with 
turnaround requirements where either 
there is a lack of current operational 
profitability or competent incumbent 
management in order to financially justify 
growth by acquisition. Our search has 
continued for targets that ‘add value’ for 
minimal risk.
POST YEAR END ACQUISITION
Following extensive research and 
individual assessments of potential 
targets as explained above, shareholder 
approval was granted on 30 May 2014 for 
completion on the Class 1 acquisition of 
Viterie Italia Centrale Srl in Italy (normally 
referred to as ‘VIC’). Summarising the key 
facts relating to VIC, below is an extract 
from our RNS announcement released 
from the London Stock Exchange on 
Tuesday, 6 May 2014:
•	 VIC is complementary to the Group’s 
business model and significantly 
strengthens TR’s presence in the 
domestic appliance market whilst also 
offering TR additional opportunities in 
existing electronic and automotive  
Tier 1 markets
•	 Funded from a new bank facility 
and minimal dilution arising from the 
allotment of consideration shares to  
the vendor
•	 A technological innovator, VIC is 
utilising its ‘know-how’ and customised 
approach in fastening applications 
gained from its leading position in 
the white goods industry and taking 
it into different markets, including the 
automotive and electronics sectors
•	 VIC has grown rapidly through 
integration and diversification of its 
product since its formation in 1964
•	 VIC offers tailor-made solutions and 
a highly efficient logistics service to a 
strong customer base
•	 Long-standing relationships and key 
customers encompass Europe’s 
leading manufacturers of white goods, 
including Indesit, Whirlpool, Electrolux, 
Elica, BSH Bosch and Siemens
•	 VIC’s operational management team will 
benefit from Trifast’s global sales and 
marketing resources 
•	 Acquisition will extend the Group’s 
customer base as well as increasing 
TR’s overall business with limited overlap
•	 Significant opportunity to grow 
the enlarged business consistent 
with Trifast’s strategy and grow the 
combined businesses by selectively 
investing in new facilities, plant  
and machinery
•	 VIC will form a key additional part of 
Trifast’s future expansion by providing 
an additional competitive manufacturing 
facility in Europe to complement the 
Group’s existing resources in Asia
•	 VIC will be earnings enhancing, self-
managing without the need  
for synergies 
The feedback on this transaction has been 
extremely positive, with highlights being 
the logical strategic fit, the immediate 
earnings enhancement, the broadening 
of our domestic appliance customer 
sector and the introduction of major 
manufacturing capability into Europe 
— thus offering short lead times and 
protection from EU anti-dumping threats  
in the future.
This clearly had a positive impact on the 
share price. 
IT’S ALL ABOUT OUR PEOPLE
The Board of Directors is under no 
illusions as to what is driving us forward 
in size, capability and profit, and so for 
that reason, we are in awe of what our 
TR management and their teams are 
achieving, and so offer our heartfelt 
appreciation and thanks for their 
unflinching efforts and ‘can do’ attitude.
We welcome also our new colleagues 
in Italy to the TR portfolio — we were 
delighted to receive resounding support 
from our investors at the end of May to 
enable us to complete the acquisition — 
we look forward to working with the team, 
sharing ideas, skills and resources.
TR Direct – 24 hour delivery
Lancaster constantly adding new products
VIC resourced for further growth
TR and VIC now working as one
Agim Nela
www.trifast.com
19 23401.04 28 July 2014 6:24 PM Proof 8
CHAIRMAN’S & CEO’S STATEMENT continued
OUTLOOK
The Directors are pleased to report that 
the business is continuing to benefit from 
the uplift in economic confidence and 
manufacturing output, this is being seen 
across a number of our key sectors and 
across our business units. TR’s focus 
on overhead control remains key whilst 
also balancing our investment for future 
growth; cash management continues to 
be highly effective and the balance sheet 
remains strong. We will continue to pursue 
opportunities to add geographic coverage, 
product range and customers to the  
TR footprint.
The Group entered this new financial 
year with confidence and enthusiasm; to 
date, underlying organic growth has been 
encouraging and this has been bolstered by 
the introduction of VIC into the Group and 
the opportunities that this brings. 
Management remains confident that we 
can continue to deliver another strong 
performance and we look forward to 
keeping all stakeholders updated with  
our progress.
Continuing investment in automated inspection for zero-defect in Asia
We will continue to pursue 
opportunities to add geographic 
coverage, product range and 
customers to the TR footprint”
Malcolm Diamond MBE 
Executive Chairman 
 
Jim Barker 
Chief Executive
16 June 2014
Stock Code: TRI
Trifast plc Annual Report 2014
20
