 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Chief executive’s review
Year ended 31 December 2003
Overview
Print management is one of the most exciting and the fastest growing sectors of the print industry. This sector is
estimated to currently be worth some £1.2bn, approximately 10% of the UK print market, and is estimated to be
growing at some 15% per annum.
The acquisition of Access Plus in November 2003 has increased the Group’s range of services, experience and
expertise in the print management sector, as well as providing a good geographical and logistical network. The
Group is now placed in the top five print management companies in the UK. TripleArc will be able to roll out its sophis-
ticated technology solutions across the enlarged print management operation to enhance the service offering to our
customers and streamline the way we do business internally, with our clients and with our suppliers.
A challenging business environment is pushing companies to adopt best practices in procurement, including a
willingness to outsource ‘back-office’ functions, which is helping to fuel the growth of the print management sector.
With an increasing number of print management contracts becoming available and the size of contracts increasing,
the Group’s enlarged scale makes it well positioned to capitalise on the opportunities in this growing market. 
Technology adoption is continuing to gain momentum throughout the print and graphic arts industry and again the
Group is well placed to capitalise on the opportunities becoming available as the industry adopts Job Definition
Format (“JDF”), the new print industry job ticket standard which remains at the core of our technologies.
Print Management Services
The Group provides print management services directly to print buying customers across a diversity of industries that
includes the retail, financial services, leisure, public and publishing sectors. We save our customers time and expense
by utilising our expertise in project management, new digital and workflow technologies, purchasing print and
managing suppliers: allowing customers to outsource some, or all, of the complex process of buying print.
Prior to the acquisition of Access Plus Plc in November 2003, the print management division, gl2, had shown dramatic
growth of over 100%. Our research into the requirements of corporates moving to outsource their print function
demonstrated that there were key requirements necessary to participate - scale, technology, geographical spread
and a strong service model. The acquisition ensured that the Group could capitalise on the increasing number of print
management contract opportunities available, by enhancing the Group’s ability to meet all those requirements.
The division offers an effective outsourced print buying solution by taking advantage of the Group’s proprietary
Collaborative Workflow System (“CWS”). The efficiencies of using CWS have been demonstrated and the technology
has helped the Group win a number of key new customers. This technology was firmly implemented within gl2 prior
to the acquisition and is being rolled out and bedded down in stages across Access Plus.
Following the combination of Access Plus and gl2, we are able to offer one of the most ‘rounded’ print management
solutions in the UK, servicing a corporates total outsourced printing requirement. This current financial year has already
seen the announcement of contract wins with Matalan, BAA Plc and BMI Healthcare.
Technology Division
The technology division both markets and supports the Group’s proprietary solutions, edit2print and iPMS, and
provides internal support to the print management division giving a strong competitive advantage to the division.
CWS has dramatically enhanced internal processes and reduced process costs and times within gl2. This has led to
improved service levels being achieved with clients, as our staff are able to focus on the services they provide to
clients, ultimately leading to increased revenue opportunities. As the technology is rolled out across the enlarged print
management division we expect these improvements to continue, thereby unlocking the massive potential that exists
within Access Plus’s existing customer base. 
AP 2003 Report&Accounts  6/1/04  3:59 PM  Page 6 5
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Technology is recognised as playing a pivotal role in allowing organisations to manage and reduce printing costs.
TripleArc’s JDF compliant technology remains at the core of our offering and the Group is benefiting from the
increasing adoption of JDF within the print industry. At the DRUPA trade fair in May 2004, the world’s largest print
exhibition, there was an increasing focus on JDF that reinforces the positive outlook for TripleArc’s technology
products. 
These products place TripleArc at the leading edge of print procurement technology. We are delighted to confirm
our alliance partner status with Hewlett-Packard’s Print and Imaging Division, and we will be attending DRUPA in
conjunction with HP, promoting the edit2print and iPMS solutions integrated into ProductionFlow (the workflow solution
for HP’s digital printing devices). Our association with HP demonstrates the attractiveness of our solutions to HP
customers, and will allow us to showcase our software solutions on a worldwide stage.
This current financial year has already seen the announcement of an agreement with Four51 Inc, to distribute CWS in
the US market, a vast market for print. Again, this demonstrates the robustness and attractiveness of the Group’s
technology and marks a major achievement of one of our milestones of licensing our technology in new territories.
This agreement will see immediate revenues being generated for the Group.
Staff
I would like to thank all members of both TripleArc and Access Plus for their loyalty and level of professionalism over
the past months. They have not only been supportive of the merger but have embraced it, realising the synergies and
contribution that can be made from the enlarged Group. The Board would like to thank the team for their hard work
and looks forward to achieving further growth together over the years ahead.
Outlook
TripleArc has experienced an excellent start to 2004. The key features being the critical mass that the Group now has
and the implementation of its technology. The combination of these two factors will enable the Group to tender for
further large contracts such as those announced earlier this year with Matalan Plc.  Furthermore, we have now put in
place strategic partnerships with Hewlett-Packard and Four51 that demonstrate the strength of our offering. 
The Board remains confident of delivering further growth in the year ahead as we complete the roll out of the Group’s
technology across the print management division. We will look to focus on our cash generation to rapidly pay down
our borrowing and focus on new strategic partnerships and potential acquisitions that will enhance our service
offering to our clients, whilst delivering revenue for the Group. There are significant opportunities in both Europe and
the US and we remain committed to being at the leading edge within the industry. The Board is positive that we will
deliver shareholder value over the forthcoming year and well into the future.
I would like to thank Tim Brettell for the support he has shown me and the integration process over the last seven
months, and I wish him well for the future.
Jason Cromack
Chief Executive Officer
4 June 2004
AP 2003 Report&Accounts  6/1/04  3:59 PM  Page 7
