 3
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
Chairman’s review
Year ended 31 December 2003
2003 was the defining year in the development of TripleArc Plc. The acquisition of ControlP in September 2002 was
fully bedded in and is performing well and this was further supported with the acquisition of Access Plus Plc in
November 2003, transforming TripleArc into the fourth largest print management company in the United Kingdom. The
Group is well underway in integrating the two businesses and the benefits of this merger are already coming through
in terms of contract wins.
The Group moved into operating profit and increased turnover dramatically to £20.9m from £7.0m. This is impressive
when considering that Access Plus made a contribution of only £5.5m to the enlarged Group’s 2003 revenue.
We are now progressing as a new powerful force in print management, providing a complete print management
service with a sophisticated and proprietary technology solution underpinning our service to customers. Since the
year end we have won contracts with Matalan, BMI Healthcare, BAA and a distribution agreement has been signed
with Four51 Inc. in the US. These contracts would not have been possible prior to the acquisition of Access Plus and
therefore we can look forward to further development and achievements during the course of the current year.
It is at this stage I have decided the time is right to retire from the Company. I have seen through the integration of
Access Plus into TripleArc, and I  believe that the Company is now well placed to move forward without me. I am
delighted that Chris Pople has agreed to become the new Non-Executive Chairman at the forthcoming AGM. I am
sure his knowledge of the industry together with his M&A experience will see TripleArc becoming a more significant
force in the future.
At the AGM, Colin Passmore will also step down from the Board. Colin will be remaining with the Company but is
intending to focus on his operational role. The Company thanks him for his input at Board level and looks forward to
continuing to work with him. In addition, the Company proposes to appoint a new Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director to the Board in due course.
Tim Brettell
Chairman
4 June 2004
AP 2003 Report&Accounts  6/1/04  3:59 PM  Page 5
