 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Chief executive’s review
Year ended 31 December 2004
Overview
The Group’s vision is to provide a total communications support services solution.  This strategy involves the provision
of complementary services to assist companies in communicating more intelligently and effectively, through
traditional print as well as digital channels. 
In December 2004, TripleArc acquired Stream, a leading direct marketing fulfilment company, to enhance the
Group’s suite of services, expanding it into data management and fulfilment services.  These capabilities allow
TripleArc to add further value throughout the supply chain, ensuring that clients’ objectives are met.
The Group has an advanced technology service to manage the print buying process, a leading print management
company and a full service marketing fulfilment company offering clients a portfolio of solutions to fulfil their com-
munication needs. In addition, TripleArc has developed further offerings both internally and through partnerships to
ensure that it can provide clients with leading-edge services that improve their communications and offer them
competitive advantages.  These solutions include digital asset management, document creation, retail campaign
management and digital communication management and integration.  The value of an all encompassing
solution to a client’s print needs is reflected in the level of contracts we won last year including Virgin Mobile and
Virgin Retail and this ability to deliver several added value solutions in the supply chain helps the Group cement
relationships with its customers.
The strategy behind the acquisition of Access Plus in November 2003 was to enable the Group to compete for the
large scale, long term print management outsourcing contracts put out to tender by companies wanting cost-
effective solutions to non-core activities. The year under review saw that strategy pay off with the Group being
awarded contracts with an aggregated value of approximately £32 million.  These contracts range from one year
rolling contracts to five year fixed term agreements with companies that include BAA, Virgin Retail, Virgin Mobile,
BMI Healthcare and Matalan.
The challenging business environment is continuing to drive interest in outsourcing as companies focus on reducing
costs to improve bottom line performance.  The print industry is the UK’s fifth largest industry sector.  However, the
supply chain is complex and fragmented.  As a result, companies with a large print spend will almost certainly
benefit from an outsourced print management solution.  TripleArc has demonstrated savings of over 30% to some of
its clients.  As the outsourcing market continues to grow, so the contracts being awarded become more complex
and sophisticated, and information technology has become a major driver.  The Group is well placed to capitalise
on this requirement due to its industry leading technologies designed to streamline the supply chain and help us re-
engineer our customers’ business processes to achieve greater savings.  We will continue to deliver cost savings to
our clients and look forward to demonstrating these capabilities as we look at a strong new contracts pipeline.
Print Management Division
The results include a full year’s contribution from Access Plus and highlights the Group’s strong position as one of the
most complete print management service providers in the UK.  The division now trades under the name of
AccessPlus.  AccessPlus provides print management solutions directly to print buying customers across a diversity of
industries that includes retail, financial services, leisure, publishing and the public sector.  The Print Management
Division saves customers’ time and expense by utilising its expertise in project management, new digital and
workflow technologies, purchasing print and managing suppliers, thereby allowing customers to outsource the
complex process of buying and managing print. 
The year under review has seen the integration of Access Plus with the Group’s existing print management business,
gl2.  The integration of Access Plus was combined with the roll out of a Group-wide accountancy system and the
Group’s proprietary technology across the divisions and its suppliers.  On an operational level the newly created
division performed well and overall sales margins were ahead of initial expectations.  However, the achievement of
full-scale revenue generation on certain new contracts took longer than originally anticipated due to contract
timing delays.  Whilst these timing delays impacted on the 2004 financial performance, the Board fully expects the
Group to generate the revenues anticipated from these contracts in the current financial year.  It is in the nature of
these contracts that they require significant management time to win and implement and can involve financial
investment to set up.  Typically there can be up to a six-month delay before they contribute to Group profitability.
We therefore expect to see the full impact from these exciting contract wins during 2005.
The UK business forms market continues to decline as more businesses move towards automated solutions requiring
single sheet products.  This is impacting the profitability of one of our business groups which manages a high
percentage of this type of work.  However, the Group is confident that it will be able to continue to migrate its
business activity away from this sector and provide a more comprehensive Group-wide offering to these customers.   5
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
This combined with a slow down in the retail sector has led to a slightly slower than expected start for the Print
Management Division in 2005.  However, the pipeline appears healthy and the Board is confident of improved
levels of trading in the second quarter.
AccessPlus experienced a good level of success during 2004 in the public sector which now accounts for 7% of the
Group’s gross profit.  We aim to continue growing this part of our business which will benefit from the public sector’s
commitment to e-business and cost saving strategies.
The Print Management Division has also been successful in providing cost saving solutions to the retail sector.  This
was highlighted by the winning of the Virgin Mobile and Virgin Retail POS contracts.  The sophistication of these
contracts has enabled the division to further enhance its service offering and technology solutions.  Partner tech-
nologies have been adopted and integrated into our existing technology and fulfilment offering, which has
enabled the Group to provide a comprehensive POS solution that is now being cross-sold into other Group
customers.
The new business activity within AccessPlus remains high and the division is currently at preferred bidder status with
a large financial services business to provide a significant print management contract.  The Board expects to be
able to confirm details of the contract soon. 
Technology Division
The Technology Division, TripleArc Ltd, markets and supports the Group’s proprietary solutions, namely CWS
(Collaborative Workflow System), edit2print and OSCOS (Online Stock Catalogue and Ordering System), and
provides internal support to the Print Management Division, providing a strong competitive advantage.
Technology is recognised as playing a pivotal role in allowing organisations to manage and reduce printing costs.
TripleArc’s JDF compliant technology remains at the core of our offering and the Group is benefiting from the
increasing adoption of JDF within the print industry. 
In 2004, TripleArc announced a strategic partnership with Four51 Inc. to distribute CWS in the US market. Four51 is
seeing an increase in demand for CWS as the US market’s appetite to outsource commercial print from large
enterprises grows.  The roll out of the CWS technology into the customer base of PathForward (a business unit of
Standard Register, one of the largest print groups in the US) is progressing well and the Board expects to be able to
give further updates on its strategic partnership with Four51 and opportunities in the US later in the year.  
In order to smoothly introduce TripleArc’s proprietary software and other operating platforms across the Group last
year, resources within the Technology Division were diverted from their main focus of generating external revenue.  As
a result, revenue growth from the Technology Division was held back but now the systems implementation is substantially
complete, the Board is confident that the Group will obtain significant benefits from the common technology
platforms now in place, and these have already been a key aspect in assisting the Group win new business. 
The CWS network now has suppliers connected to it across the UK, Europe and US.  The Group is currently identifying
suppliers in the Far East and Asia which will add further competitive services to the fast growing network.  The print
spend through the network is continuing to gain momentum and the Group is beginning to see a solid recurring
revenue stream being generated from CWS.
Our attendance at the industry trade show DRUPA in association with Hewlett Packard, generated a number of
leads with regard to licensing the edit2print software. A number of these opportunities have been closed in the
current financial year.
The Group is currently seeking further opportunities to leverage revenues from its proprietary technologies, which
include licensing the CWS software and use of the print network to large enterprises which have adopted an
‘insource’ print management solution.   
As the Technology Division refocuses on external technology sales, the Board is confident that it can deliver
substantial earnings growth from this division in the future.
Data Management and Fulfilment Division
Stream, acquired in December 2004, was formed through the integration of two established direct marketing
companies, Stream Direct Communications in Cirencester (formerly Brann Direct) and Stream GWC in Swindon 
(formerly GWC Group).  Both businesses have over 20 years experience in the provision of direct marketing services.
The integration of these businesses was completed in March 2005 with the Cirencester operation closed down and
business transferred to Swindon.  The division, previously known as HFS Projects Limited, now trades as Stream and
employs over 200 staff.  Stream specialises in the automotive, mail order, publishing, charity, financial services and
leisure sectors. 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The acquisition of Stream not only increases the Group’s scale in the print management sector, but also adds a
range of ‘data-centric’ solutions which include: data management and data processing, response management,
such as inbound and outbound call handling and data-capture and extensive personalisation and data fulfilment
facilities.  These new services will benefit the Print Management Division’s customers as well as enabling the Group
to tender for some of the larger financial services contracts available which require particular expertise in the
customer data area.
It is anticipated that Stream will quickly adopt the Group’s technologies, such as OSCOS and CWS, adding further
momentum to the print spend placed via CWS.  Furthermore, the cross selling benefits between the businesses
within the Group are excellent with many AccessPlus customers requiring the services provided by Stream and vice
versa.
The Board has had a strategic goal of providing added-value services to the Group’s offering.  The purchase of
Stream provides the Group with more control of our customers’ sensitive data, taking us further up the supply chain
of their communication solutions and strengthening our relationships. 
Business Improvement
As the Group continues to grow it is important we focus on continued improvement within the business divisions.  In
February 2005, Six Sigma, a methodology for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of business activities, was
adopted and is being rolled out across the Group.
The Group is committed to providing the best possible service to all of our customers all of the time.  This is endorsed
by our implementation and support of Six Sigma.  Our commitment to quality and service extends from the Board to
all members of the workforce and will be constantly reviewed to ensure a culture of continual improvement
throughout the organisation.
Staff
TripleArc Plc now employs over 350 people and the Board would like to thank all of them for their loyalty and level
of professionalism over the past year.  It has been a time of great change and excitement and the Board is grateful
for all their hard work. 
Outlook
The Group has experienced a significant improvement in the quantity and quality of its earnings stream.  We
expect this trend to continue as we progressively move away from ad hoc print supply orders towards longer term
print management contracts and the Group’s technology procurement network grows.  The substantial contract
wins and the expansion of the CWS network over the past year provide clear evidence of the basis of long-term
sustainable revenues.  This has established a firm foundation on which the Group will develop its strategy for
delivering a complete communications support services solution.
A Group-wide Contract Solutions team has been established to deliver on this strategy and ensure that services are
cross-sold between divisions to our customers.  The acquisition of Stream has greatly enhanced the Group’s
customer base and service offering and we have already seen over £500,000 of annualised business placed by a
Stream customer with AccessPlus.  Stream represents a step towards the Group’s aim to help customers to
effectively manage the integration of data with the convergence of digital and print communication channels.
In focusing on new strategic partnerships and potential acquisitions we are enhancing the service offering to our
clients, whilst delivering value for the Group.  TripleArc aims to fulfil its vision by adding further service areas to its
offering and to develop the potential of the Group’s procurement technology through the establishment of a
global technology platform.  The Board believes that it will continue to deliver shareholder value over the
forthcoming year and well into the future.
Jason Cromack
Chief Executive Officer
14 April 2005
