 TT electronics plc Annual Report 2003 9
We continue to respond rapidly 
to the changing demands of 
our customers for new technical
developments, improving factory
efﬁciencies and moving more
production to our factories 
in low labour cost areas.
Sheridan Comonte
Overview
It is with mixed emotions that I am writing my last report as
Chief Executive, having joined TT electronics plc in 1987. Over
the last 16 years the group has been changed signiﬁcantly 
and is now focussed on its electronic and electrical businesses.
The group has a global presence servicing major customers
including the majority of the World’s major original equipment
manufacturers (“OEM”) in the automotive, telecom, computer
and general industrial markets working with them on the
development of new product lines.The group has built up 
a reputation amongst this blue chip customer base as being
innovative, cost effective and a high quality manufacturer 
of a range of electronic and electrical products.
The global economy in 2003 was generally sluggish with a number
of the World’s developed countries near to recession.The ﬁrst
quarter gave rise to some optimism in the electronic sector but
this was dashed by the SARS outbreak and the Iraq war and the
second and third quarters produced a difﬁcult economic climate.
There were some positive signs in the fourth quarter of a
strengthening of demand in certain markets which has been
maintained so far in 2004.
Sales to the automotive market grew by 12 per cent over last
year .This success was due to the strength of our product range
and to the successful range of vehicles using our components.
Electronic component sales were reduced as a result of
downsizing, the reorganisation of our unproﬁtable magnetics
operations and lower sales to the still depressed telecom and
computer markets. Sales of our electronic manufacturing services
business were also reduced following the decision by one large 
customer to take assembly work back in house.There was little
sign of a recovery in the telecom data infrastructure or computer
markets during the year but currently there is generally more
optimism for the sector during 2004.The power transmission
and generation markets remained highly competitive, imports
from low labour cost countries had an adverse effect on
margins and our export business to the Far East was held 
back in the early part of the year due to the SARS virus.
We continue to respond rapidly to the changing demands 
of our customers for new technical developments, improving
factory efﬁciencies and moving more production to our factories
in low labour cost areas will enable satisfactory proﬁt margins
to be achieved.We have continued the introduction of cost
reduction programmes and to streamline our administration.
We continue to take a long-term view of our markets and have
increased resources appropriately in both product development
and technical sales where we see opportunities for growth.
Whilst the group emphasises the importance of organic 
growth to all our businesses, we actively seek suitable acquisitions
at the right price provided they enhance our technologies 
and product range for the markets we serve.The acquisition 
of Optek Technology in December 2003, a £40 million turnover
company based in Dallas,Texas with a large manufacturing
unit located just across the border in Juarez, Mexico met our
acquisition criteria and is successfully being fully integrated
into the sensor and electronic systems sub-sector .
Chief Executive’s statement 10 TT electronics plc Annual Report 2003
Electronic sector
The electronics’ market continues to change rapidly not only
from a technological standpoint but also as the large OEMs
move from one country to another to take advantage of the
most cost competitive manufacturing base as well as to serve
the rapidly growing customer demand in developing countries.
We continue to monitor and respond to these dynamics.
Automotive market – represents 63 per cent of the
electronic sector turnover
Over the last decade the electronic content of cars has increased
annually at an average of 6 per cent and this trend is forecast 
to continue. It is pleasing to note that our sales growth to this
market was 12 per cent and above the average market growth.
We recognised the potential of this market some years ago and
have developed a range of technologies and products which
satisfy this demand. Currently 60 per cent of all cars produced
in Europe and North America incorporate at least one of our
products.The demand for electronics is driven by three main
features and our technologies and products are used in all 
three of these growth areas:
Demand for enhanced vehicle performance and better fuel efﬁciency
A key aspect of reducing exhaust pollutants is to improve fuel
efﬁciencies which is achieved by a combination of better
engine management systems and lighter weight cars.
TT electronics has developed a number of sensors which form 
a part of the complex electronics required in today’s engine
management systems as well as being a pioneer in drive-by-
wire technologies for accelerator , brake and steering systems.
Currently all new BMW and Mercedes Benz cars use our
accelerator pedal sensor modules which are produced on
dedicated automated production lines at one of our German
plants. Electronic steering is taking over from the currently 
used hydraulic systems as this saves weight, improves fuel
consumption and reduces cost.TT electronics was one of the
ﬁrst to market sensors for an electrically powered system and
these are now incorporated into a growing number of European
and North American cars. Sales of these sensors grew by 
20 per cent last year .
Demand for improvements to car safety 
A car’s stability on the road is paramount and we produce 
a range of sensors for chassis height control as well as ABS
braking sensors. Other sensors and systems include hybrid
circuits for controlling high intensity discharge headlamps.
Demand for improved driving comfort
At our automotive engineering centre in Wales we specialise in
the design of complex climate control systems which control
the different zones in a vehicle’s passenger compartment as
well as incorporating in-car entertainment systems. Such
systems can take up to 12,000 engineering hours to develop
due to the need for the software to interface with other
electronic and electrical systems within the car as well as
designing the appropriate style of the unit incorporated into
the dashboard.These products are manufactured in Wales and
the USA and, following the acquisition of Demo, in France and
Brazil. Last year the total number of our units sold increased
to over two million units.
T elecom market – represents 9 per cent of the
electronic sector turnover
The telecom market had in the past shown steady growth
which peaked during the boom year of 2000. Subsequently,
in part due to the ﬁnancial difﬁculties of many of the World’s
largest service providers and equipment manufacturers, the
demand for the wide range of components we manufacture 
for this industry collapsed. Sales this year reduced by 16 per cent
from 2002 and by over 60 per cent from 2000.Telecom products
attracted a good proﬁt margin and this reduction in demand
has adversely affected proﬁtability.
Currently there are signs that investment in both wireless and
wireline infrastructures will increase as service providers and
equipment manufacturers repair their balance sheets and the
World’s spare capacity becomes more utilised driven by the
demand for new technologies.We expect some growth in this
market in 2004.
Due to the reduction in demand and increasing competition
from China sales of our magnetic components have been badly
affected.We have responded by a major reorganisation of our
operations.This included closing our manufacturing plants for
laminations in the United Kingdom and exiting this market.
Our ferrite manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom and
USA have been closed and production transferred to our low
labour cost factory in India which is being enlarged to handle
the additional equipment and turnover .
Computer market – represents 6 per cent of the
electronic sector turnover
Our range of inductors and resistors continue to be designed
into assemblies by the World’s leading computer manufacturers.
However , the rapid move of the production of PC’s and laptops
to China has impacted on the sales which have reduced by
34 per cent from 2002 and over 60 per cent from 2000.These
factors have caused us to re-evaluate our supply chain into 
this market. During the year we increased our presence
in China by opening a technical centre based at our sales ofﬁce
in Shenzhen and set up a manufacturing facility in Southern
Mainland China.This has the effect of bypassing import duties
Chief Executive’s statement continued TT electronics plc Annual Report 2003 11
into China and giving us a more competitive base to offset 
the rapid rise in local Chinese competition.
Industrial market – represents 22 per cent of the
electronic sector turnover
This market includes a wide range of industries and a large
number of companies, from large international to more niche
specialist companies.The majority of our sales have been to 
the control instrumentation and aerospace sectors which have
been stagnant during the year . Our marketing departments
continually analyse the opportunities and focus our technical
sales and engineering on growth areas or where we have 
a technological advantage.
Optek Technology sales to the ofﬁce equipment market
represent 32 per cent of their turnover and it is our intention
to use their contacts and expertise to increase sales of our
existing products into this market.
Electrical sector
Power generation – represents 29 per cent of the
electrical sector turnover
The majority of the generator sets we manufactured in the
United Kingdom were for export to Africa, the Middle East and
the Far East.This market has been depressed for some years
and made worse by the strength of sterling against the US
dollar .This year proﬁtability was adversely affected by technical
problems on a large complex project for North Africa.To enable
us to remain competitive we have withdrawn from production
in the United Kingdom and transferred business to our efﬁcient
and proﬁtable factory in Mexico which has undergone an
expansion and upgrade programme over the last three years.
We continue to run a maintenance and overhaul service for
both the United Kingdom and selected overseas customers.
Our uninterruptible power supply business which has suffered
due to the telecom downturn won a number of new orders 
for our product incorporated into mobile base stations 
in Singapore and Thailand.
Power transmission – represents 71 per cent of the
electrical sector turnover
We have been successful in winning the sub-sea cable
contracts for both of the offshore wind farms constructed in 
the United Kingdom to date and have expectation of winning
future orders.The wind farm cable delivered in the middle 
of 2003, whilst achieving an acceptable margin, due to its
technical complexity caused other production disruptions and
delays.The general industrial cable market is still oversupplied
and is open to competition from low cost imports from Eastern
European countries which has the effect of depressing margins.
The specialist cable contract which we won in the second half
of 2003 for new naval vessels currently under construction 
will commence delivery shortly and further orders are 
expected later this year .
Outlook
I stated in my review in March last year that 2003 would be 
a demanding environment in which to grow sales. In the early
stages of 2004 there is generally more optimism for the recovering
worldwide economy and demand for our products is increasing.
TT electronics is well prepared to beneﬁt from such a recovery.
Our policy has and will be to continue to manage the group 
in the long-term interest of shareholders and employees.
I am pleased to be handing over my role to Neil Rodgers,
who joined the group 12 years ago and has for the last 7 years
been Divisional Chief Executive responsible for our successful
automotive businesses. I wish him and the management
teams who have supported me over the years good fortune
and an improving marketplace.
Sheridan W A Comonte
Chief Executive
29 March 2004
