 06 TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement
Sean Watson, Chairman
2014 was a year of challenges and significant 
change. Following the appointment of Richard 
Tyson as Chief Executive Officer in July, we 
undertook a comprehensive review of the 
business and have now developed a clear 
strategic plan to stabilise the business and  
deliver sustainable growth. 
It was regrettable that we had to announce in 
November 2014 that issues identified by the 
business review and delays in execution of certain 
elements of the Operational Improvement Plan 
would impact our 2014 and 2015 performance. 
This led to a fall in our share price, however we 
have moved swiftly, commencing the necessary 
improvement actions, making changes to  
our senior management team, reshaping our 
organisational structure and appointing Mark 
Hoad as Chief Financial Officer. This has allowed 
us to enter 2015 with a clear understanding of 
what needs to be done and the confidence that 
we have the right people in place to move our 
business forward.
2014 results
Group revenue was £524.3 million from 
continuing operations (2013: £532.2 million).  
On an organic basis, revenue increased by  
2 per cent, excluding the effects of foreign 
exchange (£22.6 million) and the £3.7 million 
revenue contribution from the acquisition of 
Roxspur Measurement and Control Limited 
(“Roxspur”) in July 2014. This organic revenue 
increase was largely related to a one-time order 
within Sensing and Control.
Underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations declined by 5 per cent to £29.2 million 
(2013: £30.8 million) with the reduction 
principally related to a £1.7 million negative 
foreign exchange impact, partially offset by the 
£0.4 million in operating profit delivered by the 
acquisition of Roxspur. The underlying operating 
profit performance benefited from the £4 million 
one time order referred to above and £1 million  
of last time buys related to the closure of our 
operations at the Smithfield, USA facility.
Our closing net debt position of £14.3 million 
reflects investment in the acquisition of Roxspur 
for £8.0 million, net capital expenditure of  
£28 million and a working capital outflow of 
£16.8 million due to significant supplier payments 
made during the first half.
 2014 was a year of change 
where hard decisions have 
been taken to provide us 
with a platform for 
progress.  07 TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Directors’ Report Strategic Report
Dividend
The Board is recommending an unchanged final 
dividend of 3.8 pence which, when combined  
with the interim dividend of 1.7 pence, gives  
a total of 5.5 pence per share for the full year 
(2013: 5.4 pence per share), representing an 
increase of 2 per cent.
Strategic and operational progress
We have conducted a comprehensive review of 
the business and have developed a strategy for 
sustainable growth. In his statement, Richard 
Tyson outlines his priorities for 2015 and the 
actions being taken to simplify the organisation 
and to create a culture of clear accountability. 
Progress is being made but more work is needed 
to embed these governance processes and 
cultural changes across TT.
Board changes
We have made a number of changes to the Board 
and senior management team. Richard Tyson 
joined from Cobham plc as Chief Executive 
Officer in July 2014, and Mark Hoad was 
appointed as Chief Financial Officer in January 
2015. Mark previously held the position of Group 
Finance Director at BBA Aviation plc. At the senior 
management level, we have implemented a 
number of organisational changes and refreshed 
the leadership team. Further details are set out  
in the Chief Executive’s statement.
The Board, through the Remuneration 
Committee, is committed to ensuring that  
the Group operates in accordance with best 
practice regarding both the disclosure of 
directors’ remuneration and the development  
of an effective executive remuneration strategy. 
The alignment between our strategic goals,  
KPIs and Executive remuneration is set out  
in the Remuneration Report. 
Our people
The delivery of our strategic goals would not be 
possible without the hard work and dedication  
of our people, across all of our business units 
worldwide. 2014 was challenging for our staff, 
not only as a result of the changes we made to 
our Executive management team (and which 
have now filtered through the management 
layers of our business units), but also arising  
from the need to make headcount reductions  
at a number of our sites. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank all of our employees who 
have worked through this period of uncertainty 
and made a valued contribution to the business 
and our wider customer initiatives during 2014.
Looking forward
The Group has undergone significant change 
during the second half of the year. We have a new 
management team in place and a clear plan to 
improve the performance of the business. 2015 
will be an important year of transition as this new 
plan is implemented and we create a sustainable 
platform for growth.
Sean Watson
Chairman
11 March 2015
“On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank all of  
our employees who have 
worked through this period of 
uncertainty and made a valued 
contribution to the business 
and our wider customer 
initiatives during 201 4.”
