 08 TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Richard T yson, Chief Executive Officer
2014 Results
Group revenue from continuing operations was 
£524.3 million (2013: £532.2 million). On an 
organic basis, revenue increased by 2 per cent, 
excluding the effects of foreign exchange  
(£22.6 million) and a £3.7 million contribution 
from Roxspur Measurement and Control Limited 
(“Roxspur”), which was acquired in July 2014.  
The organic revenue increase was largely related 
to a one-time order within Sensing and Control.
Underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations declined by 5 per cent to £29.2 million 
(2013: £30.8 million) with the reduction 
principally related to a £1.7 million negative 
foreign exchange impact partially offset by  
the £0.4 million in operating profit from the 
acquisition of Roxspur. At constant currency, 
underlying operating profit was broadly 
unchanged. The underlying operating profit 
performance included circa £4 million of profit 
from the one-off order referred to above and  
circa £1 million of profit from non-recurring orders 
related to the Smithfield, USA facility closure.
There was a £0.9 million increase in the net  
interest expense to £1.6 million (2013: £0.7 million) 
primarily as a result of a lower net credit from  
the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings. 
Underlying profit before tax declined by 8 per cent 
to £27.6 million (2013: £30.1 million) representing  
a 3 per cent reduction on a constant currency basis.
The underlying effective tax rate of  
25.7 per cent was slightly higher than the  
prior year (2013: 23.6 per cent) and basic 
underlying earnings per share decreased by  
12 per cent to 12.9 pence (2013: 14.6 pence),  
and by 5 per cent at constant currency.
The reported loss for the period amounted to 
£10.5 million (2013: profit £13.0 million) after a 
charge for items excluded from underlying profit 
of £33.5 million (2013: £11.8 million). Included 
within this charge were restructuring costs of 
£22.2 million (2013: £10.2 million), which related 
principally to the Operational Improvement Plan, 
and asset impairments of £9.4 million (2013: £nil), 
which related largely to an accounting write-down 
of capitalised intangible development costs 
following a review of expected returns.
2014 was a year of challenges 
and significant change. We 
have closely re-examined our 
business and strategy, and 
reshaped our management 
teams and organisational 
structure.  09 TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Directors’ Report Strategic Report
“Whilst our order book remains 
sound, our markets continue 
to look challenging, especially 
in Europe, where headwinds 
remain. We therefore remain 
cautious in our outlook for 
201 5 with the benefits of  
the new strategic plan not 
expected to be seen until 
2016. However, we are putting 
in place a solid platform for a 
return to sustainable profitable 
growth and to restore value  
for shareholders.”
There was a free cash outflow in 2014 of  
£22.5 million (2013: inflow of £0.5 million) with a 
free cash inflow of £12.5 million in the second half 
of the year compared with a £35.0 million outflow 
in the first half. Net capital expenditure increased 
as planned to £28.0 million (2013: £23.9 million) 
and capitalised development expenditure 
amounted to £6.8 million (2013: £5.2 million), 
equivalent in total to 1.6 times underlying 
depreciation and amortisation. There was  
a working capital outflow of £16.8 million  
(2013: £9.4 million) due to significant supplier 
payments made during the first half of the year.
Total acquisition and disposal expenditure in the 
year amounted to £8.5 million (2013: £12.5 million) 
including the acquisition of Roxspur for £8.0 million 
net of cash in the acquired business. Total dividend 
payments in the year amounted to £8.7 million 
(2013: £8.0 million) and we ended the year with  
a closing net debt position of £14.3 million  
(2013: net cash £26.9 million).
Dividend
The Board is recommending an unchanged final 
dividend of 3.8 pence which, when combined  
with the interim dividend of 1.7 pence, gives  
a total of 5.5 pence per share for the full year 
(2013: 5.4 pence per share), representing an 
increase of 2 per cent. 
My first task on joining  
TT was to understand our 
business and to identify the 
opportunities for growth.
Position
People
Potential
We are present in attractive end markets, 
geographies, product categories and 
applications. The markets have strong 
structural demand drivers, ranging from 
regulatory and product development,  
in some cases, to macro drivers. We also 
have long term relationships with our 
customers, many of which are global 
leaders of their end markets and  
value TT as a technological partner.  
TT has years of experience and expertise 
in engineering and delivering electronics 
for applications in the harshest 
environments. The reliability and 
performance of our products is 
something we are proud of. Our global 
presence enables us to be close to our 
customers in geographies with good 
growth opportunities.
We have a great team, full of  
talented people who have strong 
expertise and extensive experience.  
Our 5,800 employees are committed  
to deliver the best to our customers. 
Over the years many have developed  
a strong and trusted relationship with 
our customers. 
TT is a business with a strong position, 
excellent people and great potential. 
The key is unlocking it through:
– Enhancing customer engagement, 
building on established relationships. 
– Harnessing core capabilities, 
targeting and delivering the  
R&D programmes. 
– Improving operational and  
financial performance. 10 TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
drive operational excellence through our global 
operations and supply chain. Candy Bowles has 
been appointed as Group EVP of Corporate 
Development and Strategy.
Strategic and 
operational progress
We have conducted a comprehensive review  
of the business. The review solidified our 
understanding of the business and confirmed 
that we enjoy some strong positions in attractive 
growth markets, that we have loyal customers 
who respect and value what we do and we have 
strong, technically robust products that perform 
well in demanding environments. During the 
review, we completed a number of immediate 
actions to simplify and stabilise the business 
including the strengthening in capability and 
experience of the senior management as outlined 
above, and organisational changes designed  
to improve customer focus and enhance 
transparency, accountability and pace. 
We have identified good opportunities in our 
Industrial Sensing and Control and Advanced 
Components businesses based on favourable 
market dynamics and our current position. 
Transportation Sensing and Control also has  
good structural growth characteristics and we 
have had success in a number of areas, however, 
the performance of our Transportation sensors 
business has been disappointing. We now  
have a clear plan to turn the business around 
operationally, by ensuring our R&D resources are 
targeted on the right opportunities and that our 
processes are more effective. 
Our IMS business, which focuses on more 
challenging lower volume, high specification 
segments, will continue to deliver at a similar level 
of performance and we will support the business 
with appropriate levels of investment. 
The Operational Improvement Plan (OIP), first 
launched in June 2013, is a large and complex 
restructuring programme targeted at improving 
our long-term competitive position whilst also 
reducing overheads. Relocating certain 
manufacturing lines from Werne, Germany to 
Timisoara, Romania is a key aspect of this 
programme, and progress was delayed during 
2014. Agreement on the overall shape of the 
programme was reached with the workers’ council 
and trade union in late 2014 and the transfer is 
now making progress. 
Board and senior 
management changes
We have made a number of changes to the Board 
and senior management team. I joined from 
Cobham plc as Chief Executive Officer in July 
2014, and Mark Hoad was appointed as Chief 
Financial Officer in January 2015. Mark previously 
held the position of Group Finance Director at 
BBA Aviation plc.
At a senior management level, we have 
implemented a number of organisational 
changes and reformed the leadership team. 
Within the Sensing and Control division we have 
created two distinct customer facing segments to 
provide greater market focus and accountability. 
We appointed Amrei Drechsler as Executive  
Vice President (EVP) Transportation Sensing  
and Control, Tim Roberts as EVP Industrial 
Sensing and Control and TC Chan as EVP of the 
Integrated Manufacturing Services (IMS) division. 
Our Components division has been re-named 
Advanced Components and Gareth Mycock  
has been appointed the EVP of that division.
We have also strengthened other key areas of  
the business. Michael Robinson has assumed  
the role of EVP Operations and Supply Chain to 
Executive Management Board
(left to right) Lynton Boardman, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary; Tim Roberts, EVP Industrial Sensing and Control; John Leighton-Jones, 
EVP Human Resources; Amrei Drechsler, EVP Transportation Sensing and Control; Richard Tyson, Chief Executive Officer; Mark Hoad, Chief Financial 
Officer; TC Chan, EVP IMS; Candy Bowles, EVP Corporate Development & Strategy; Gareth Mycock, EVP Advanced Components; Michael Robinson, 
EVP Operations & Supply Chain.  11 TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Directors’ Report Strategic Report
The cost of the OIP programme in Europe is 
anticipated to be approximately £24.0 million with 
projected full year run rate cost improvements of 
£3.5 million. We expect to see the first benefits 
from the programme in the 2016 financial year. 
This programme is a necessary step to underpin 
future competitiveness.
Detailed plans under the OIP to move production 
are in place, and monitored continually, to ensure 
progress against critical milestones. The first 
production line transfer from Werne was 
completed in January, as planned, and the 
qualification of that line in Romania is now in 
progress. An additional ten lines are planned to 
move in 2015 with the remainder of the lines 
scheduled to be moved throughout 2016. We 
expect all elements of the programme to be 
completed in the first half of 2017.
The closure of sales offices in Japan, France and 
Italy was completed on schedule with the full year 
benefits of £1.3 million per annum largely realised 
in the year. As previously announced, the transfer 
of manufacturing from our Fullerton, California 
site to Mexicali, Mexico has been put on hold in 
order to fulfil a significant customer order agreed 
in the first half of 2014. We continue to anticipate 
that the transfer will be completed in 2015. 
As a result of the business review we have 
developed a strategic plan.  
Our focus is now on the execution of this plan  
and a return to sustainable, profitable growth. 
The strategy is one of re-focusing, re-building 
and generating momentum in the business 
supported by six main strategic priorities:
– Market-leading position in attractive niches 
by harnessing our expertise in electronics for 
performance-critical applications;
– Enhanced customer focus and more 
effective cross-selling to make the most  
of the knowledge of, and access to, markets 
and customers across our businesses;
– Targeted and efficient R&D, to drive  
greater balance across our markets and  
a more efficient and effective new product 
development process to meet customer needs;
– Operational efficiency through greater 
collaboration across our businesses to leverage 
best practice, procurement and economies of 
scale across our operations – including 
successful delivery of the OIP;
– A lean, agile and learning organisation 
supporting the development of and 
investment in our people’s capabilities,  
and improving decision making with  
greater transparency and accountability;
– Financial discipline and performance 
management to drive rigorous data-rational 
decision making, focused on value based 
investment decisions and emphasis on 
cash generation.
This plan is designed to enhance and refine  
our existing strategy with three key outcomes: 
improved customer performance, improved 
operational performance and improved returns 
and cash generation. Our priority will be driving  
a ‘step change’ in execution, deployment  
and engagement. 
Outlook
The overall operational and financial 
performance for 2014 was disappointing. 
However, the Group has undergone significant 
change during the second half of the year. We 
have a new management team in place and a 
clear strategic plan to improve the performance 
of the businesses. 2015 will be an important year 
of transition as this new plan is implemented.
Whilst our order book remains sound, our markets 
continue to look challenging, especially in Europe. 
We therefore remain cautious in our outlook for 
2015 and we expect profits to be more second-half 
weighted than in the prior year. The benefits of the 
new strategic plan are expected to be seen from 
2016. We are putting in place a solid platform from 
which to return to sustainable profitable growth 
and to improve value for shareholders.
Richard Tyson
Chief Executive Officer
11 March 2015
Rebuilding the platform 
Six strategic priorities
1. Market-leading position 
2. Enhanced customer focus
3. Targeted and efficient R&D
4. Operational efficiency
5. A lean, agile and learning organisation
6. Financial discipline and  
performance management
