 07 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Chief Executive’s statement
We have continued to deliver on our five 
strategic drivers across the Group. Unique 
holidays now account for an impressive  
71% of our Mainstream sales, the business 
benefits of which include higher average 
selling prices, higher rates of retention and 
earlier bookings. Continuing to build on our 
portfolio of unique products, the UK business 
opened 10 new Thomson Couples resorts, 
nine Thomson Scene, one additional Holiday 
Village and another flagship Sensatori hotel. 
We are targeting a 76% mix of unique content 
by 2017 and we are confident that we will 
achieve this. Online holiday sales stand at 
38% of Mainstream sales. This is up from 
21% in 2007 and we are targeting 50% online 
sales for Mainstream by 2017. 
The TUI Digital Assistant app continues to  
be a huge success; it has now been launched 
in five Source Markets and has been 
downloaded one million times. The app  
allows us to be present at every stage of  
the end-to-end customer journey. We have 
continued to enhance the app over the year, 
and are looking forward to implementing 
some key strategic developments to it over 
the coming months. A key development has 
been the introduction of the search and book 
functionality, allowing users to find and book 
their dream holiday using their mobile device. 
We have continued to take delivery of our 
Boeing 787 Dreamliners, with Arkefly and 
Jetairfly flying their first this year. The aircraft, 
which have received fantastic customer 
feedback, are delivering the targeted 20% 
of fuel savings which, along with substantial 
financial benefits, helps us to achieve our 
sustainability commitment to operate 
Europe’s most fuel efficient airlines. 
Also this year, we have built on the foundations 
of One Mainstream, which allows us to take 
full advantage of our scale and buying power 
and delivers more effective operations across 
the sector. One Aviation is a great example 
of the success of such collaboration, building 
one virtual airline operated from various 
locations, delivering significant reductions 
in overheads and sharing best practice.
We are well positioned to build on our 
record performance next year as part of a 
new combined group. Our Winter 2014/15 
programme is currently 63% sold, with 
the UK sales to date up 4% year-on-year. 
Our Summer 15 programme has seen an 
impressive start to trading in the UK, with 
current bookings up 9% compared to 2014. 
It is clear to me that our colleagues are the 
driving force behind our fantastic results. 
Our people are a key differentiator for 
TUI Travel, they set us apart from our 
competition and I would like to thank them 
for their continued commitment and passion.
Since the formation of TUI Travel in 2007  
we have been on a journey of value creation 
for shareholders. Total shareholder return 
has grown by 138% since that time, a strong 
performance against challenging market 
conditions. Future-proofing our business 
through the merger with TUI AG will enable 
our continued sustainable growth going 
forward. I am looking forward to completing 
the merger with TUI AG (expected on  
17 December 2014) and to beginning the next 
chapter of our journey as a new, stronger, 
combined group in the coming years. 
P eter 	 Lon g 	
Chief Executive 
Befor e 	 an y thin g 	 else, 	i	 w ould 	 lik e 	 to 	 thank 	
our 	 57 ,0 0 0 	 collea gues 	 a cr oss 	 the 	 Gr oup,	
whose 	 hard 	 w ork 	 and 	 determinati on 	 is	 	
the 	 r eason 	 for 	 this 	 y ear ’ s 	 success .	
h a v in g 	 d e li v e r e d 	 1 1 % 	 gr o w th 	 in 	 u n de r l y in g	
operatin g 	 pr ofit 	 on 	 a 	 const ant 	 curr enc y 	
basis, 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 outper formed 	 our 	 gr o w th	
r oadmap 	 for 	 the 	 second 	 y ear 	 in 	 a 	 r o w .	
The merger with TUI AG will strengthen and 
future-proof the combined group. It will also 
enhance the certainty of long-term unique 
holiday growth and reinforce our clear 
competitive advantage through further 
control over the end-to-end customer 
experience. This will mark the start of an 
exciting new phase of growth, delivering 
significant opportunities and value to 
customers, employees and shareholders.
Our Mainstream strategy is delivering 
sustainable, profitable growth through our 
focus on unique holidays, direct distribution 
and optimum leveraging of our scale, all 
contributing to the 13% growth in underlying 
operating profit on a constant currency 
basis of the Sector this year.
Accommodation & Destination had another 
good year. The Accommodation Wholesaler 
business was the stand out performer with 
underlying operating profit growth of 21%  
on a constant currency basis. Over the year, 
we sold 27.8 million roomnights across the 
Sector, up 10% on the year before.
Specialist & Activity has seen a more mixed 
performance: tougher trading in Adventure 
and Marine offset by strong results from the 
North American Specialist and Education 
businesses, and weak comparatives in Sport 
led to a performance broadly in line with  
last year. 
11 %
Gr o wth 	 in 	 underlyin g	
o peratin g 	 pr ofit 	 o n 	 a 	
co nsta nt 	 curr ency	
ba s i s 2000 2010 2005 2011 2012
677
807
949
995
1035
388
449
486
516 534
128
154
205
218
234
110
133
150
156 163
26
36
58 55 52
24
35
50 49 52
World
Europe
Americas
Asia
Middle
East
Africa
W ORLD	 ec On OMic 	OU t L OOK	 % 	 change 	 in 	 GDP inte R n A ti O n AL 	 AR R iv AL S 	 ( M )
1.4
2011 2012 2013 2014
6.2
4.9
4.5
5.1
3.9
3.2
2.9
3.6
3.4
1.7
1.1
0.9
0.2
1.5
0.5
1.2
1.4
1.9
2
Emerging 
Markets
World
Advanced 
Economies
Germany
UK
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
08 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t
Why we do it: Market overview
t h e 	 e c on omi c 	 e n v ir on m e n t
The global economic outlook remained steady in 2014 with GDP 
growth projections of 3.3% (2013: 3.3%)
1
. The outlook results from 
mixed geographical performances with the UK, Germany and Spain 
strengthening on 2013, offset by weak growth in the United States, 
as well as ongoing tensions in Russia and the Middle East. Despite 
these downsides, the positive trend is expected to continue into 2015, 
when global growth is expected to rise to 3.8%
1
. 
Within the Eurozone, growth is expected to register at 0.8% in 2014 
and 1.3% in 2015, following two years of decline
1
. Our two main source 
markets, UK and Germany, registered the biggest growth increase 
amongst advanced economies, growing 3.2% and 1.4% respectively
1
. 
Unemployment is slowly decreasing, down to 6.3% in the UK (from 
7.7%) and to 5% from 5.3% in Germany
2
.
t h e 	 l e isu r e 	 tra v e l 	 ma r k et
Arrivals increased again by 5% to 1,087 million in 2013 following the 
record breaking 2012 where international arrivals surpassed the one 
billion mark for the first time
3
. The regional trends remain broadly in 
line with those of last year. Europe, which is responsible for over 50% of 
global arrivals and our main focus both in terms of tour operator market 
and destination growth, and Asia, our focus for online accommodation 
growth, registered the largest increases on last year at 5.4% and 6.2% 
respectively
3
. The Middle East was the only region to suffer a decrease, 
albeit only by 0.2%, a vast improvement on the 5.4% decrease registered 
from 2011 to 2012
3
. Europe is the only region to see a year-on-year 
increase in growth rate with all other regions showing slightly slower 
growth than the previous year. A stronger euro also helped contribute 
to a healthy increase in tourist receipts in the region of $490bn
3
. 
We are operating in an increasingly dynamic environment; this year 
saw the proliferation of peer-to-peer business models, a challenging 
environment for airlines – both scheduled and Low Cost Carriers, and 
the continued growth of online travel agencies. Demand for leisure 
travel remains strong and, as our main markets recover from economic 
stagnation, we are well positioned to maintain our market-leading 
positions and grow further. 
The range and quality of our product is well positioned to serve the 
interests of different customer types. Our dedication to our unique 
holiday strategy in Mainstream, and to product variety and scope 
in online accommodation, coupled with a commitment to digital 
transformation across both models, ensures we continue to cater 
to the changing needs of our customer.
t he 	 s usta i n a bil i t y 	 ch a l le n g e
Travel and tourism is one of the world’s largest industries. The growth 
and employment it creates makes it of critical importance to the global 
economy – contributing 9% of global GDP and 6% of global exports
3
. 
It is responsible for 1 in 11 jobs globally
3
 and is the main source of foreign 
exchange in one-third of developing countries
4
. Travel and tourism also 
accounts for around 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions
4
, half of which 
is attributable to aviation. Recent UN research shows that only 34% 
of countries said that their tourism sector was guided by a ‘sustainable 
tourism’ policy
4
 Therefore the challenge for our industry is to maximise 
the positive social and economic impacts of tourism while minimising 
environmental impacts. 
Supporting local livelihoods and protecting the environment is not only 
the right thing to do, but brings a significant business benefit as well. 
In 2012, we developed our Sustainable Holidays Plan 2012 – 2014, 
which sets out four ambitious goals underpinned by 20 commitments 
in our priority areas – taking care in destinations, reducing carbon 
emissions and engaging our colleagues and customers in sustainability. 
See our Sustainable development section on page 24  
and  www.tuitravel.com for more information.
t h e 	 p oli ti ca l 	 clim at e	
As a global organisation, we feel the impact of government regulation 
in all of the markets in which we operate. Some of our activities, such 
as those undertaken by our airlines, are heavily regulated. Lawmakers 
continue to focus upon how they can balance consumer protection 
with the need to promote growth and protect jobs.
Our political and regulatory affairs team seek to engage with legislators 
at an early stage in relation to all of those areas of regulation which 
may have a material impact upon the way we do business. Our focus is 
always to work with governments to bring forward legislation that is fit 
for purpose, properly balances the interests of industry and consumers 
and treats all industry players fairly.
The last 12 months have seen continuing developments at the European 
level in respect of two major areas of legislative reform: Air Passenger 
Rights and the Package Travel Directive. We have engaged consistently 
with the Commission, the European Parliament and with member states 
as they have considered these reforms and will continue to do so over 
the coming 12 months. 
Aviation taxation also remains on the agenda as governments across the 
world look for ways to increase revenue. Our role is to remind them of 
the importance of the travel and tourism industry as a driver for growth.
In the UK, the debate on airport capacity continues, following publication 
of a report from the Airports Commission in December 2013. We will 
maintain a full role in that debate in order to ensure that the specific 
requirements of leisure airlines and passengers are fully understood.
1. IMF World Economic Update, October 2014     2. Eurostat     3. UNWTO Tourism Highlights 2014     4. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), 2014 TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION
OUR 
FOOTPRINT
MARKET 
SIZE & 
COVERAGE
MARKET 
GROWTH
OUR 
POSITIONING
KEY TRENDS 
& FUTURE 
OUTLOOK
09
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014
Our principal Mainstream brands operate from the UK, 
Germany, France, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, 
Poland, Switzerland & Canada. The global travel expenditure 
combined of these 10 markets amounts to £509bn. Our four 
largest source markets of the UK & Ireland, Germany, France  
& Sweden make up over 70% of this spend.*
In the Specialist & Activity Sector we have over 100 brands  
that deal with a variety of customer segments from luxury 
travel to school sports to languages to adventure. This makes  
it very difficult to quantify a defined market size or position, 
though the focus is on attaining leading positions in the 
individual markets and maximising growth opportunities.
The global hotel market, which includes all hotel bookings, 
amounts to €378bn. This is approximately halved to €181bn 
when considering the bookings made through intermediaries 
rather than direct.
Of this €181bn, approximately 20% of inventory booked 
through intermediaries, is sourced through a bedbank, 
amounting to a market size of €35bn for our Accommodation 
Wholesaler business.
The Accommodation only Online Travel Agent (OTA) segment 
amounts to about £36bn; of this, the addressable segment 
(markets in which we operate: UK, Asia Pacific and Brazil) 
amounts to approximately £8.2bn.
Our core markets are projected to grow at a 3% CAGR over the 
next three years. Despite the more challenging environment 
of recent years, we have seen consistent market growth and 
healthy projections for the mainstream holiday market.
The Accommodation only OTA market is projected to grow  
at a CAGR of 5.5% over the next five years while the 
Accommodation Wholesaler market is expected to grow  
at a CAGR of 7.7%.
We remain market leading in almost all source markets in which 
we operate.
In addition, we have market-leading positions in a number of 
specialist segments with a portfolio of unique products, 
unrivalled product knowledge and superb customer experience.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business (Hotelbeds & 
Bedsonline) remains the clear leader in the Accommodation 
B2B space.
With our Accommodation OTA business we are positioned 
strongly in the UK (LateRooms.com) and are building our 
presence in the Asia Pacific and Latin American market  
through Asia Rooms and Malapronta respectively.
Customers’ research and booking preferences are constantly 
evolving from offline to online, and from desktop to mobile  
and tablet. Our focus is to ensure we have channels that serve 
all our customers’ needs, and that they offer a seamless and 
personalised service.
Unique holiday experiences continue to be popular and attract 
new customers and, with a diverse range of experiences on 
offer, TUI Travel remains well placed.
Online Accommodation only remains one of the fastest-growing 
segments in the leisure travel industry. The proliferation 
of internet use across the world opens up new markets 
and destinations which guarantees steady growth.
*Source: Euromonitor A c c	 W h O L e S A L e R
O t h e R
F R A nc e
G e R MA n y
n O R D i c S
UK	 &	 i Re L An D
Acc	O t A
i n BO U n D	 S e R v ic e S
S O U Rc e 	M A R K e t S BU S i ne S S 	 L i ne S
See more: ‘How we do it:  
Our Strategic framework and 
business models’, page 12
S e c t OR
See page
 
13
See page
 
13
See page
 
13
Mainstream Sector 82%
Accommodation & 
Destinations Sector 12% 
Specialist & Activity 
Sector 6% 
U n D e R L yin G 	 O P e R A tin G	
P R OFit	 M i X 	 B y	 S ec t OR
t U i	 t R A v e L	 P L c	 	
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
10 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t
How we do it: Our structure
TUI Travel is organised and 
managed through three  
principal business sectors:
A c c OM M O D A t i On	 	
&	 D e S t i n A t i On S
t h e 	 A c c o m mo d ati o n 	 & 	 D es tin ati o n s	
Se cto r 	 ( A & D ) 	 is 	 a 	 gl o ba l 	 pr o vi d e r 	 of	
a c c o m m o da ti o n 	 a n d 	 i n bo u n d 	 tra v el	
se rv i ces. 	i t 	 c o m petes 	 i n 	 fast -gr o wi n g	
a r eas 	 of 	 th e 	 tra v el 	 i n d ustry 	 th r o u gh	
th r e e 	 b us in ess 	 lin es: 	 A c c o m mo d ati o n	
Wh o l esa l e r , 	 On l i n e 	t ra v el 	 Ag e n t	 	
( O t A ) 	 a n d 	i n bo u n d 	 Se rvi ces. 	 B oth	
A cco m m od a t i o n 	 W h o l e sa l er 	 a nd	 	
O t A 	 use 	 th e 	 ‘On l i n e 	 A c c o m m o da ti o n ’	
b usi n ess 	 m o d el 	 wh i l e 	i n bo u n d	
Se rv i ces 	 is 	 pa rt 	 of 	 th e 	 ‘t o u r 	 Ope ra to r’	
b us in e ss 	 mo d e l .	
S P e c i A L i S t 	 &	 A c t ivi t y
t he 	 Specialist 	 & 	 Ac tivit y 	 Sec tor	
(SA S) 	 comprises 	 mor e 	 than 	 1 0 0	
brands 	 of ferin g 	 a 	 wide 	 ran ge	 	
of 	 unique 	 tra v el 	 experiences 	 to	
customers 	 a cr oss 	 the 	 globe, 	 fr om	 	
ski 	 and 	 sailin g 	 holida ys 	 to 	 adv entur e	
tra v el 	 and 	 spor t s 	 tours . 	t he	
Specialist 	 & 	 Ac tivit y 	 Sec tor 	 uses	 	
the 	 ‘ t our 	 Operator ’ 	 business 	 model.
MA i n S t R e AM
t he 	 Ma instr eam 	 Sec tor 	 mak es 	 up	
the 	 largest 	 par t 	 of 	 our 	 Gr oup 	 in	
terms 	 of 	 financial 	 per formance, 	
scale, 	 scope 	 and 	 number 	 of	
e m p lo y e es . 	 t h is 	 Se c to r 	 in c o r p o rat es	
our 	 familiar 	 ‘ po w er ’ 	 brands, 	 such	 	
as 	 our 	 tour 	 operators, 	 with 	 cir ca	
1 , 80 0 	 r etail 	 stor es 	 a cr oss 	e ur ope	
and 	 six 	 airlines 	 consistin g 	 of 	 1 3 6	
a ir craf t 	 thr ou ghout 	 our 	 k e y 	 sour ce	
mark et s . 	 W e 	 r epor t 	 via 	 these 	 Sour ce	
Mark et s 	 with 	 the 	 largest 	 four	
r epor tin g 	 separately 	 – 	 the 	 UK	 	
& 	i r eland, 	n ordic s, 	 German y 	 and	
F rance. 	t he 	 Mainstr eam 	 Sec tor 	 uses	
the 	 ‘ t our 	 Operator ’ 	 business 	 model.	 K e y 	 De S t i n A t i On S
cUS t O M e R 	 n UMB e R S/
ROOM ni G h t S
Ke y 	 BR A n DS
11
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014
Canary Islands, 
Balearic Islands 
and Greece
Canary Islands, 
Greece and Turkey
Balearic Islands, 
Turkey and 
Canary Islands
Morocco, Tunisia 
and Turkey
Turkey, Canary 
Islands and Spain
USA, Spain 
and Turkey
UK, Brazil, 
Singapore 
and Malaysia
Spain, Turkey 
and Greece
Italy, France 
and USA
5 .2 m
p a ss en g ers
1.6m
p a ss en g ers
6.2 m
p a ss en g ers
1.4m
p a ss en g ers
5. 1 m
p a ss en g ers
27 .8m
r oom ni g h ts
13m
p a ss en g ers
1.3 m
c ust o m e r s PEOPLE
5
We respect our customers and never forget that they 
choose to spend their leisure time with us. We share a 
duty to maintain their loyalty and trust. We anticipate 
customer desires and everything we do is with them 
in mind. We believe there is no such thing as a mass 
market, and that it is just a huge market of individuals.
OUR
VALUES
Through our global brand portfolio 
and travel expertise we are focused 
on delivering leisure travel 
experiences designed for our 
customers ever-changing needs.
VISION
Making travel 
experiences special
We share an infectious entrepreneurial streak and a 
clear focus on the need for profitability. We look for 
opportunities that have a commercial advantage for 
us and add value to our customers’ experiences. We 
predict, translate and bring to market new leisure-time 
products based on their genuine appeal to customers. 
VALUE
DRIVEN
CUSTOMER
DRIVEN
TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS
PAGE
12
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS 
IN ACTION
STRATEGY
PAGE
14
PAGE
16
PAGE
18
PAGE
20
PAGE
22
• Unique, inclusive holidays
• Tailor-made holidays
• Range and diversity 
 of hotel stock
• Global destination and 
 s ource market coverage
CONTENT
1
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Market-leading brands
• Trusted brands – safety 
 & security
• High levels of controlled 
 d istribution 
• Well known Accommodation
 W holesaler and
  Accommodation OTA brands
• Online
BRANDS & 
DISTRIBUTION
2
• Flexible technological
 platforms to support 
 growth
• Market-leading technology
TECHNOLOGY
3
We are passionate about being the best and about 
winning with integrity. We seek the ideas and trends 
that change leisure-time markets for the better and 
move quickly to action them. We thrive on teamwork. 
We are not afraid of making brave decisions. We want 
to do something new every day and we love what we do.
PLAYING
TO WIN
We are committed to sustainable development and to 
making a positive impact on society. We know leadership 
has to be earned and we never take it for granted. We 
communicate openly and easily and help each other 
develop and grow. We celebrate local differences and 
actively seek to contribute to a better world. 
RESPONSIBLE
LEADERSHIP
• Leveraging scale• Leveraging scale
GROWTH 
& SCALE
4
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
12 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t
How we do it: Our strategic framework and business models
Our strategic framework underpins 
everything we do and comprises our 
Vision, Strategy, Strategic Drivers and 
the Values that are innate within our 
business culture. Our strategic drivers 
are ingrained in our operations with  
a clear focus on Content, Brands & 
Distribution, Technology, Growth  
& Scale and People. Our business 
models are derived directly from our 
strategic drivers and focus on the  
two key areas of long-term growth 
within the market – Tour Operator 
and Online Accommodation. 
For more information please see the  
‘How we do it: Our key strategic drivers’ 
section page 14 PEOPLE
5
We respect our customers and never forget that they 
choose to spend their leisure time with us. We share a 
duty to maintain their loyalty and trust. We anticipate 
customer desires and everything we do is with them 
in mind. We believe there is no such thing as a mass 
market, and that it is just a huge market of individuals.
OUR
VALUES
Through our global brand portfolio 
and travel expertise we are focused 
on delivering leisure travel 
experiences designed for our 
customers ever-changing needs.
VISION
Making travel 
experiences special
We share an infectious entrepreneurial streak and a 
clear focus on the need for profitability. We look for 
opportunities that have a commercial advantage for 
us and add value to our customers’ experiences. We 
predict, translate and bring to market new leisure-time 
products based on their genuine appeal to customers. 
VALUE
DRIVEN
CUSTOMER
DRIVEN
TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS
PAGE
12
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS 
IN ACTION
STRATEGY
PAGE
14
PAGE
16
PAGE
18
PAGE
20
PAGE
22
• Unique, inclusive holidays
• Tailor-made holidays
• Range and diversity 
 of hotel stock
• Global destination and 
 s ource market coverage
CONTENT
1
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Market-leading brands
• Trusted brands – safety 
 & security
• High levels of controlled 
 d istribution 
• Well known Accommodation
 W holesaler and
  Accommodation OTA brands
• Online
BRANDS & 
DISTRIBUTION
2
• Flexible technological
 platforms to support 
 growth
• Market-leading technology
TECHNOLOGY
3
We are passionate about being the best and about 
winning with integrity. We seek the ideas and trends 
that change leisure-time markets for the better and 
move quickly to action them. We thrive on teamwork. 
We are not afraid of making brave decisions. We want 
to do something new every day and we love what we do.
PLAYING
TO WIN
We are committed to sustainable development and to 
making a positive impact on society. We know leadership 
has to be earned and we never take it for granted. We 
communicate openly and easily and help each other 
develop and grow. We celebrate local differences and 
actively seek to contribute to a better world. 
RESPONSIBLE
LEADERSHIP
• Leveraging scale• Leveraging scale
GROWTH 
& SCALE
4
13
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014 TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
14 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t
1 .	 c ont ent
see adjacent
2 .	 Br a nd s	 &	 D i s t r i bu t i o n
see page 16
3 .	 t ec h nol o g y
see page 18
4 .	 G r o w t h	 &	 S c a l e
see page 20
5 .	 P eo p le
see page 22
How we do it:  
Our key strategic drivers
The next few pages will provide further detail on what our 
strategic drivers mean to our Tour Operator and Online 
Accommodation businesses. This will focus on why they 
are important, how we adhere to them operationally, and 
how we know they are working. Whilst the focus of some of 
our strategic drivers will be considerably different, others 
demonstrate clear similarities, highlighting the underlying  
unity between the two models.
c O nte nt 	 c A Se 	S t UD y	
Differentiating 
through 
Dreamliners
This year, our Boeing 787 Dreamliner 
fleet has continued to grow, with both 
JetAirFly and ArkeFly receiving their 
first aircraft. The Dreamliner is a key 
differentiator for TUI Travel, further 
enabling us to provide an outstanding 
experience throughout the customer 
journey, not only in resort. They have 
received consistently high scores in 
customer satisfaction questionnaires.
1 . 	 c on t e n t
U n iqu e	 	
holi d a y 	 m i x	 	
n ow	
7 1% 15
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014
O u r 	 ra n g e 	 a n d 	 d i v e rs i ty	 	
is 	 a ttracti v e 	 t o 	 o u r 	 cust o m e rs
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• The increase in airline capacity, and continued success of 
Low-Cost Carriers, has created a large market of customers 
looking for a range of accommodation options all over 
the world.
• To capture this market, it is imperative that digital content 
is clear, relevant and well presented. 
• Getting this right will ensure customer loyalty and 
repeat customers.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 doin g 	 about 	 it ?
• Selling a wide variety of product, in terms of high quality, 
destination and budget. In FY14 we added a further seven 
destinations to our Accommodation Wholesaler portfolio 
and increased our hotel count to nearly 70,000. 
• In FY14 the Accommodation Wholesaler business diversified 
its offering to also sell transfers and activities. With nearly 
20,000 transfers and activities contracted for FY14, it is 
building a solid position in a profitable market place. 
• Over the past year Accommodation Wholesaler TTV has 
grown significantly in the key regions of Asia and Africa 
which has contributed to an impressive divisional TTV 
growth rate of 15% year-on-year.
• FY14 saw a 37% increase in hotel inventory on Malapronta, 
driven by domestic content.
U n i q u e 	 h o l i da ys 	 f o r m 	 th e 	 b ack b o n e	 	
o f 	 o u r 	t o u r 	 O p e ra t o r 	 stra t e g y
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• By pursuing a unique content strategy we are able to cater 
to the needs of clearly defined customer segments, thereby 
appealing to a wide range of our addressable market.
• The investment in designing and delivering our different 
hotel concepts attracts satisfied and repeat customers; 
validated by higher satisfaction and retention scores 
across source markets.
• The inclusion of value added services and features, 
such as private transfers and swim-up rooms, commands 
a higher margin.
• Our unique content books earlier than commodity  
products enabling us to manage our capacity and yield 
more effectively.
• By offering content which is exclusive to us, we can 
distance ourselves from the competition and limit 
comparisons on meta search engines, e.g. Kayak or Trivago
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 do in g 	 about 	 it ?
• In Mainstream we are continuously reviewing our existing 
concept portfolio, adapting where appropriate for different 
source markets and opening new destinations.
• In FY14 we opened Sensatori Jamaica, the sixth property  
in the collection with a further three in Ibiza, Turkey  
and Cyprus on sale for Summer 15. Sensatori has seen 
year-on-year pax growth of 40% since it was launched  
in FY09. 
• Unique content has grown from 68% in FY13 to 71%  
in FY14.
• Our Specialist & Activity brand Citalia launched ‘Citalia 
Secrets’, offering pre-departure knowledgeable advice and 
hidden secrets on customer chosen destinations in Italy. Sensatori Resort Aphrodite Hills, Cyprus 
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
16 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
S t R A t e G i c	R e P O R t 	HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers
2. 	 Br a nd s 	 & 	 D i s t r i bu t i o n
B R An D S	 & 	 D i St R i B Uti O n 	 c A S e 	S t U D y	
Successful Sensatori
Thomson’s Sensatori brand champions affordable luxury 
and is designed to fuel the senses with world class spas 
and gourmet dining. As a result of its huge popularity, it  
is set to grow by 50% over the next year, opening three 
new resorts: Sensatori Ibiza, Sensatori Resort Aphrodite 
Hills (Cyprus) and Sensatori Resort Fethiye (Turkey). 17
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014
D istr i b u ti o n 	 is 	 k e y 	 t o 	 th e	
su c c essfu l 	 p e r f o r ma n c e 	 o f 	 th e	
O n lin e 	 A c c om m o dati on 	 b us in ess
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• Unlike our tour operator business, we do not have input 
into the physical content but instead create value with  
our digital content, branding and distribution.
• In our Accommodation Wholesaler business, we have a  
long established reputation to maintain so that we can 
grow both with existing customers and in new geographies. 
Our customers expect an easy-to-use interface, breadth  
of content and reliable service; delivery of this is a critical 
success factor.
• Our Accommodation OTA brands operate in a far more 
crowded market place where having a trusted and 
recognisable brand is vital in driving online traffic. 
Therefore working on our brand to increase awareness  
is the most efficient way to attract new customers.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 doin g 	 about 	 it ?
• FY14 saw particular focus on the growth of our agency 
distribution arm Bedsonline. Efforts in Europe and the 
Americas in particular saw agent numbers increase by 
nearly 30%.
• Our Accommodation Wholesaler business partnered with 
easyJet holidays in mid-2014, becoming the operator’s 
accommodation provider. This partnership allows 
distribution of our content to a far wider customer base.
• In our Accommodation OTA business we remain focused on 
building on our strong brand positioning of LateRooms.com 
in the UK and expanding in the emerging markets 
through AsiaRooms.com and MalaPronta.com. This year 
LateRooms.com brand messaging reached over one million 
users across all social media platforms including Google+, 
Instagram, Facebook, Tumblr, Pinterest and Twitter.
W e 	 r e ma i n 	 c o m m i tt e d 	 t o 	 o u r 	 f o cus	
o n 	 d i r e ct 	 d istr i b u ti o n 	 a n d 	 b e i n g	 	
on lin e 	 dr i v e n	
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• The benefits from a direct distribution strategy are 
two-fold: it enables us to form a direct relationship with the 
customer, and thereby understand more about what they 
are looking for, and also drives down our distribution costs.
• Customers increasingly expect a standardised service 
and offering across different devices and therefore 
we need to ensure we are ahead of the curve with our 
digital developments.
• In a densely populated industry, the robustness of our 
brand names and the financial security and quality they 
promise are very important. 
• Recognisable brands are particularly important in 
an online world, helping to direct organic traffic and 
improving conversion.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 do in g 	 about 	 it ?
• In our capacity as an end-to-end operator we consider 
‘online’ as the whole journey from inspiration, to booking, 
to the holiday itself, as well as returning and sharing 
experiences through social media. 
• We recognise the changing role of the travel agency which 
remains an important part of the booking process for  
many of our customers. Our new concept stores, which 
incorporate digital elements and inspiration, have seen 
increased traffic and improved customer interaction  
and this year our Thomson stores beat cross industry 
competition to win the Digital Store of the Year award.
• These efforts have seen our direct share of bookings 
increase from 66% in FY13 to 68% in FY14.
• Thomson Sport, the sports-fan focused arm of Specialist  
& Activity, recently signed a partnership with Manchester 
City to be the club’s official supplier of supporter travel, 
and another brand, Gullivers, signed a similar six-year deal 
with the Welsh Rugby Union.
M a in s t r e a m	
Dir e ct	
Di s t r i b u t i on	
n ow	
6 8% TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
18 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
S t R A t e G i c	R e P O R t 	HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers
3 . 	 t e c h nol o g y
t ech n O L O G y 	 c A S e 	S t U D y	
TUI Digital Assistant now Live in Five 
This year has seen the international roll-out of the TUI Digital Assistant (TDA). 
Capitalising on the scale of our business, the app, which was first developed for 
the UK as ‘My Thomson’, has been translated for five of our key source markets. 
With a total of over one million downloads to date – 120,000 in the month  
of July 2014 alone – the Digital Assistant is a ‘one stop shop’ for everything 
customers need. Available for Android and iOS devices, it includes everything 
from inspiration, research, booking, flight information and luggage allowance 
details, to maps to help customers plan the best route to the airports. 
The TDA has a number of exciting new innovations planned in 2015.  19
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014
t e chn o lo g y 	 un de r pi ns 	 the 	 d i str ib u ti o n	
a n d 	 c o n t e n t 	 p i l la rs 	 o f 	 o u r 	 stra t e g y
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• The complexity of our product (multiple components) 
and distribution pattern (e.g. a six-month lag between 
purchase and consumption) requires us to have robust 
and inter-linking systems to ensure a seamless customer 
service and reliable management information.
• Innovation in technology means we can develop new ways 
to inspire our customers and make their booking process  
as user-friendly as possible.
• Enables us to offer our customers the best possible value 
by having an efficient technology infrastructure and 
therefore driving maximum savings and efficiencies.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 do in g 	 about 	 it ?
• This year Thomson launched a system called Connect, 
linking the digital, retail and call centre businesses. Connect 
allows customer information to be shared across booking 
platforms, meaning online or call-centre bookings can be 
followed up in shops. The system will make customer data 
available from the point of booking onwards, allowing 
frontline staff to offer a more personalised service.
• In FY14 we launched Holiday Open Day, an online tool 
which allows the customer to virtually explore and  
select different options which our concepts offer and 
consequently suggest the most suitable product for  
their next holiday.
• We rolled out the TDA in other markets (from Sweden to 
Austria) whilst simultaneously updating its functionality. 
The app had been downloaded one million times with more 
updates in the pipeline.
• Our Specialist business also launched a range of successful 
apps, most notably: Crystal Ski Explorer complemented  
by live Facebook, live chat and mobile optimised sites to 
support their multi-channel distribution strategy.
i n v estm e n t 	 i n 	t e ch n o l o g y 	 is	
esse n ti a l 	 f o r 	 o u r 	 o n l i n e-b ase d	
A c c om m o dati on 	 b us in ess es	
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• Similarly to our tour operator business, the main areas 
where technology can benefit our business are through 
enhanced user experience at the front end and the 
rationalisation of systems and platforms at the back end.
• As our OTAs interact directly with the customer, user 
experience is of utmost importance as customers have 
come to expect an intuitive and fast interface that delivers 
relevant results.
• Having efficient technology platforms allows us to 
drive cost savings and therefore provides further value 
to our customers.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 doin g 	 about 	 it ?
• Accommodation Wholesaler’s in-house platform is one  
of the most robust and flexible in the industry, allowing  
for quick connectivity with hotel suppliers as well as our 
customer base of travel agencies, tour operators and OTAs.
• FY14 saw the launch of the dedicated XML link for the 
transfer and activity bank which we expect to gain further 
traction next year.
• In our Accommodation OTA business, we are continuing to 
invest in a new platform to support our growth strategy: 
the Brazilian OTA Malapronta started offering payments  
by instalments in FY14 – an option which is very popular in 
that market, accounting for over 42% of online purchases.
• Following the success last year of the LateRooms app, apps 
were launched for AsiaRooms and Malapronta in early FY14 
and have generated over 600k downloads to date across 
the three brands. 
1 	 mill i o n
t DA	 	
do w n lo a d s TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
20 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
S t R A t e G i c	R e P O R t 	HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers
4.	 Growth	 &	 Scale
GR O W t h 	 & 	S c AL e 	 c A S e 	S t U D y	
Scale Leads to Success 
In December 2013, TUI Travel announced its ‘One Mainstream’ strategy. 
The purpose of One Mainstream is to generate further growth, innovation 
and  cost efficiencies for the Group. Leveraging our scale, we have been able 
to develop new functional groups, such as Mainstream Product & Purchasing, 
and Distribution & Online. One Mainstream has also involved building business 
clusters from existing source markets, for example, TUI Benelux – formed of 
TUI Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg, where operational efficiencies have 
been implemented through joint aviation operations to Mombasa and Zanzibar 
for Summer 14 and Florida for Winter 14. 
Our five charter airlines are also changing – One Aviation, another part of 
One Mainstream, is building a virtual airline. This means that we will act ‘as one’ 
wherever it makes sense to do so, maintaining local differences where the benefit 
of that differentiation is greater than that of harmonisation – one team does 
not mean one location. 21
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014
O u r 	 sca l e 	 a n d 	 p o t e n ti a l 	 f o r	
gr o w th 	 ma k e 	 us 	 u n i q u e
Wh y 	 is 	 this 	 impor t ant ?
• We are the largest integrated leisure travel company in the 
world in terms of both scope of operation, geography and 
customers. We are market leaders in most of the markets 
in which we operate and we constantly strive to maintain 
our leading positions.
• Enables us to drive economies of scale, further synergies 
and cost efficiencies and therefore provides added value  
to customers.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 do in g 	 about 	 it ?
• We further deployed the Dreamliner aircraft across our 
Mainstream business, giving our customers a superior  
flight experience and allowing us to offer new long-haul 
destinations and more capacity to existing ones. Our 
Benelux airlines Arkefly and Jetairfly were the latest to 
offer flights on the Dreamliner in August.
• The Mainstream functions are working closer together  
with central structures in place for distribution, aviation, 
product and purchasing and digital. This allows the 
different markets to collaborate on initiatives and learn 
best practice from each other.
• Our Specialist & Activity brand, TCS Expeditions, the  
world leader in private jet travel, added a new first-class 
dedicated Boeing 757 custom-configured cabin with  
52 flat-bed seats to its fleet. The plane was designed  
in collaboration with Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts  
as part of the ongoing strategic partnership.
• For the second consecutive year in FY14 we delivered on 
our growth roadmap of 7-10% EBITA growth (at constant 
currency) as set out at the beginning of the year. 
Sca l e 	 is 	 a 	 cr i ti ca l 	 su c c ess 	 fact o r 	 f o r	
a ny 	 o n l i n e 	 ac c o m m o da ti o n 	 b us i n ess
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• Online driven businesses need to compete with global 
players and compete for customers in all markets to take 
market share.
• In a price-driven, lower-margin business, it is imperative  
for us to achieve high volumes which can be leveraged  
to gain competitive advantage.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 doin g 	 about 	 it ?
• Hotelbeds and Bedsonline are clear market leaders in the 
B2B space with operations in over 100 countries. We are 
continuing to follow our strategy of consolidating our 
market-leading position by expanding in destination and 
source markets. 
• Within the Accommodation OTA division we cover three 
attractive markets:
> LateRooms.com has maintained its position as  
number two against fierce competition in the UK 
accommodation-only OTA market. Our focus is on 
profitable growth through product quality and  
multi-channel optimisation.
> AsiaRooms.com is now an established and growing  
brand in the Asia-Pacific region, focused on seven key 
APAC countries and intra-Asia corridors.
> MalaPronta.com continues to establish itself in  
South America, a fast-growing and lucrative market.
• Accommodation OTA can benefit from access 
to the merchant stock available through 
Accommodation Wholesaler.
• Accommodation Wholesaler saw a further 26% growth  
in the number of XML links between their inventory  
and tour operators/travel agencies’ booking systems. 
O ne	
M a i nst r e a m	
n o w 	 in	
p l ac e	 TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
22 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
5 . 	 P eo p le
P eO P L e 	 c A S e 	S t U D y
Communicating the vision 
This year, we set out to unite the Group’s 57,000 colleagues worldwide.  
The video which was produced brings to life the human resources vision in a 
consistent, effortless and engaging manner for colleagues and ensures that  
all fully understand the employer brand. The video explains how our vision  
of ‘making travel experiences special’ is achieved through shared values.
S t R A t e G i c	R e P O R t 	HOW WE DO IT: Our key strategic drivers 23
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re Po RT & Accoun Ts 2014
P e o p l e 	 a r e 	 a 	 k e y 	 d i f f e r e n ti a t o r	 	
a t 	t U i	t ra v e l
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?
• As a customer-facing, service-driven company our people 
are a key element of our success. From reps in resort, cabin 
crew, agents, to colleagues in head office – the knowledge 
and customer focus of our employees is what helps us 
maintain our market-leading positions.
• Satisfaction and loyalty of our customers are important 
ingredients to help us grow. A key driver for this is their 
holiday experience and the service they receive from the 
time they book to the interaction in resort. 
• Given the nature of what we do, we need to attract and 
retain colleagues with specific skills across the tour 
operator discipline.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 do in g 	 about 	 it ?
• Communicating with colleagues regularly and openly, 
whether it be informal blog posts from the Board, or 
organised ‘Town Hall’ meetings to give updates on the 
strategy and five-year plan of the business.
• Enhancing our existing development programmes for senior 
managers and executives and adding a new programme for 
junior managers. This year the Specialist & Activity Sector 
added a fourth programme, Navigator, designed for those 
at the beginning of their management careers, to help them 
build networks, understand the breadth of the organisation 
and learn about key industry trends.
• Our International Graduate Leadership Programme and 
TUI UK Graduate Scheme continue to attract high-quality 
talent from across the world and are considered among  
the best in the industry.
• Within Specialist Holidays Group, part of our Specialist  
& Activity Sector, a ‘Spreading Smiles’ programme was 
launched across all brands, showcasing how the Sector 
works together to generate opportunities for collaboration 
and teamwork.
• Four senior female leaders within the business were 
recognised as some of the most influential women in travel 
at the British Travel Industry Hall of Fame.
P e o p l e 	 a r e 	 th e 	 k e y 	 d r i v e r 	 o f 	 a ny	
o n l i n e 	 b us i n ess 	 w h e r e 	 a gi l i ty , 	 s p e e d	
a n d 	 i n n o va ti o n 	 a r e 	 ess e n ti a l 	 e l e m e n ts	 	
o f 	 s u c c ess
Wh y 	 is 	 it 	 impor tant ?	
• The online accommodation business is driven by the talent 
it employs; with thousands of people across a variety of 
locations and functions.
• Digitally skilled and innovative talent are necessary for the 
online accommodation industry, making it a competitive 
sector as an employer.
What 	 ar e 	 w e 	 doin g 	 about 	 it ?
• Building a strong brand proposition to attract and retain 
the best talent.
• Identifying knowledge gaps within the organisation and 
providing colleagues with the necessary tools and skills  
to succeed in the online world.
• Developing an online-driven culture where employees 
are encouraged to keep abreast of the latest trends 
whilst providing an environment which fosters new ideas 
and innovation.
• The global and evolving nature of our business requires  
we look beyond European boundaries when it comes to 
sourcing talent. TUI Travel continues to tap into the vast 
talent pool of markets like Brazil and South East Asia to 
fuel its global growth ambitions.
• Launch of a programme comprising Personal Reviews, 
Organisational Management and Succession Planning with 
the view to ensuring we develop our internal talent with 
clear career paths and targeted development programmes.
5 7 , 000
c o lle a g ue s	
a c r o s s 	 t h e	
G r o u p 24 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | p roof 1
How we do it: Sustainable development
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t
We want our holidays to benefit local people and to protect 
the environment. It is important to us not just because it is 
the right thing to do, but because our products – memorable 
and unique holidays – rely on beautiful and welcoming 
tourist destinations. Managing our impact means we can 
maintain the quality, viability and desirability of our holidays 
for years to come. Our vision is to make travel experiences 
special whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting 
culture and people and bringing economic benefits 
to communities. 
Our commitment to Responsible Leadership (see our values on page 
25) extends beyond our Group. In FY14 we were pleased that our 
performance was recognised as follows:
• For the seventh consecutive year TUI Travel was featured in the 
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) and was ranked joint 
first in the FTSE 350 for our approach to carbon disclosure and 
governance. TUI Travel was the only company in the travel and 
leisure sector to feature in the 2014 CDLI.  www.cdproject.net
• TUI Travel was recognised by Carbon Clear for its approach to 
carbon reporting, ranking the Company 4th in the FTSE 100 in  
its annual survey.  www.carbon-clear.com/uk 
• We continue to be listed on the FTSE4Good Index in recognition  
of meeting strict social, environmental and governance standards. 
• We were a finalist in the business category of the World Travel  
& Tourism Council’s 2014 Tourism for Tomorrow awards. 
For further details on awards and our latest Sustainable Holidays 
Report, see  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability.
Go v e r na n c e
Commitment at the most senior level is vital for us to achieve our 
goal of leading the leisure travel sector in sustainable development. 
Johan Lundgren, Deputy Chief Executive, is responsible for reporting on 
sustainable development to the TUI Travel Board and Jacky Simmonds, 
Group HR Director, is responsible for reporting on sustainable 
development to the Group Management Board. Jane Ashton is the 
Director of Group Sustainable Development. The Group Management 
Board acts as the Steering Committee, setting the strategic direction 
and long-term objectives for sustainable development across TUI Travel.
The Group Sustainable Development Department’s role is to drive 
change towards a more sustainable business and continue to lead 
the industry. The Department works closely with other Group 
departments and a network of sustainable development coordinators 
in each key source market/Sector who have a remit to develop and 
implement sustainable development strategy, supported by a network 
of champions. 
We work with Forum for the Future, a global sustainable development 
NGO which selects a handful of companies as ‘Pioneer’ partners, 
defined as leading organisations at the cutting edge of sustainability. 
TUI Travel has been selected as one of these partners.
R isk 	 ma na g e m e n t
Policy and mitigation for Group-wide risks relating to sustainability  
are facilitated by the Group Risk Management and Sustainable 
Development Departments, with responsibility for managing such  
risks also shared by the businesses themselves. Increasing legislative 
and societal demands on a company like ours requires that we act 
responsibly and identify and manage our risks effectively. 
Key areas of risk identified are:
• Legislative and societal demands in relation to size and management 
of TUI Travel’s carbon footprint.
• Ensuring that the actions of our colleagues uphold TUI Travel’s 
sustainable development policy.
• Ensuring that the actions of our suppliers uphold TUI Travel’s 
environmental and social supplier standards.
• Putting measures in place to enable us to gain a better 
understanding of the socio-economic impacts of tourism.
• Ensuring we are aware of potential damage to, and the quality of, 
destinations due to ecosystem degradation and climate change.
• Being aware of customer expectation in respect of sustainability.
For further information about sustainability risks and how we manage 
them see our latest Sustainable Holidays Report. We have also identified 
sustainability risks within the Principal risks section, see page 42
F y 1 4 	 h i g h l i g h ts …
5 .5 m
customers stayed in hotels with 
sustainability certifications
69 .9g	
of CO
2
 emissions per revenue 
passenger kilometre across 
TUI Travel airlines – making 
our airlines the most fuel 
efficient in Europe
v iew p o in t
Watch Johan Lundgren 
discussing the importance  
of sustainability to the 
tourism industry 
 www.tuitravelplc.com  c Ol l e Ag u es 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 cu s t Om er s c Ar B O n 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	D es t i n At i O ns We will operate Europe’s most
We will deliver 10 million
fuel-effi cient airlines and save more
in sustainability.
delivering more sustainable holidays.
‘greener and fairer’ holidays.
than 20,000 tonnes of carbon 
TUI Travel as a leader
TUI Travel as a leader in
from our ground operations.
Our colleagues will rate 
Customers will regard 
t e ch n Ol Og y 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	g r O Wt h 	 & 	s c Al e 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 c O nt e nt s t r At eg i c 	Dr i v er s O nl i n e 	Dr i v e n 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 c Os t 	 eFF i c i e n c y
p e Op l e 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Br A nDs 	 & 	D is t r iBu t i O n
v i S i O n
M A K in G 	 t R A ve L	
e XP e R i e n c e S 	 S P e c i AL 	
w h i lst 	 min imis in g	
e n v i r o n m e n ta l 	 i m pact ,	
r esp e cti n g 	 cu l tu r e	 	
a n d 	 p e o p l e 	 a n d 	 b r i n gi n g	
e c o n o m i c 	 b e n efits 	 t o 	
c o mmun i ti es
25 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
Our three-year Sustainable Holidays Plan was launched in 2012 and marks our journey towards 
a more sustainable future. It shows significant integration of environmental and social principles 
in the way we do business – including performance measures, processes and the customer 
proposition. It sets out four ambitious goals underpinned by 20 commitments in our priority 
areas – taking care in destinations; reducing carbon emissions; and engaging with colleagues and 
customers in sustainability. Our Sustainable Holidays Plan aligns with our corporate strategy. 
For further details on our  
Sustainable Holidays Plan including  
our 20 commitments, see  
 www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
Our Sustainable Holidays Report 2014  
is due out in Spring 2015.
Our Sustainable Holidays Plan 2012-14 26 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | p roof 1
G O A L	B y 	 2 0 1 5 … 	
W e 	 w i l l 	 d e l i v e r 	 1 0 	 m i l l i o n	
‘ gr e e n e r 	 a n d 	 fa i r e r’ 	 h o l i da ys	
We will measure this by the number of 
customers we take to hotels with credible 
sustainability certifications from 2012 
to 2014, e.g. sustainability certifications 
by working with the Global Sustainable 
Tourism Council (such as Travelife) and 
international environmental management 
standards such as ISO 14001 and EMAS. 
We are proud of the positive role our industry plays around 
the world. The travel and tourism sector accounts for 9% 
of the world’s GDP and 6% of its exports (UNWTO, 2014). 
It is responsible for one in 11 jobs globally (UNWTO, 2014) 
and is the main source of foreign exchange in one-third of 
developing countries (UNEP , 2014). 
However, we know that travel and tourism can also have unintended 
negative consequences and are committed to understanding and 
enhancing the socio-economic impacts of our holidays. There are 
also significant environmental challenges: for example, water will be 
a key challenge for our industry in the coming decades, particularly 
in island states. Our challenge is to maximise the positive social and 
economic impacts of tourism in all our destinations and to minimise 
environmental impacts.
We are committed to influencing more hotels to achieve credible 
sustainability certifications which provides us with assurance that 
our suppliers are making continual sustainability improvements. This 
not only improves our sustainability performance but also benefits 
our suppliers.
Our most sustainably-managed hotels deliver higher quality and 
customer satisfaction. Analysis of over 1.4 million customer satisfaction 
questionnaires within TUI UK & Ireland in 2012 and 2013 showed that 
hotels with Travelife sustainability awards scored higher on overall 
satisfaction. From this, we can conclude that our customers experience 
a link between sustainability and quality. 
Good sustainability management – and good environmental management 
in particular – can have a significant effect on a hotel’s operating costs. 
For example, depending on the region, energy costs can account for 
between 5% and 15% of a hotel’s operating costs (blueContec, 2012). 
So encouraging hotel suppliers to use energy more efficiently, and also 
to use renewable energy wherever feasible, helps them save on one 
of their biggest costs as well as helping destinations prepare for a low 
carbon future. 
In many destinations, TUI Travel accounts for a significant percentage 
of tourist arrivals. That means we contribute, directly or indirectly, 
to many of the jobs, tourism-related businesses and tax revenues in 
destination countries.
We are conscious of the pressures that tourism can place on local 
populations and resources and therefore work collaboratively with 
communities, governments and a range of other partners to support 
sustainable management of destinations. Examples include: The Global 
Sustainable Tourism Council, The Dutch Association of Travel Agents  
& Tour Operators, Deutscher ReiseVerband, GIZ, Association of British 
Travel Agents and The Travel Foundation.
F y 1 4 	 h igh l igh t s
• We took over 5.5 million customers to hotels with credible 
sustainability certifications.
• We featured over 5,900 hotels with sustainability certifications.
• We organised sustainability supplier workshops in Germany, Greece, 
Italy, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia and Turkey. 
• We launched the TUI Collection – a set of excursions tailored to give 
customers a true taste of the destination. Excursions have to meet 
specific sustainability criteria to be included in the Collection. 
• Aitken Spence Travels in Sri Lanka, part of our Accommodation & 
Destinations Sector, won a Gold Award for its ecotourism initiative 
at the 2014 Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA) Awards.
• TUI UK was the first travel company in the UK to be certified to the 
Travelife standard for tour operators and Sawadee also achieved 
certification in 2014, following on from TUI Nederland which was  
the first major travel company worldwide to be certified in 2013. 
• TUI Nordic was the first tour operator in the Nordic region to 
achieve ISO 14001 certification and TUI Deutschland successfully 
renewed its ISO 14001 which it has held since 2003.
D e s tin a ti on s	
11 .5m
Over 11.5 million customers 
stayed in hotels with 
sustainability certifications.
over the last three years
5 , 9 00	
This year, we featured over  
5,900 hotels which had 
sustainability certifications
S t R A t e G i c	R e P O R t 	HOW WE DO IT
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
Sustainable development 27 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
• Our majority shareholder, TUI AG, signed up to the UN Global 
Compact in September 2014, committing the Group to 10 universally 
accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment 
and anti-corruption.
• Our employee Code of Conduct commits us to respecting and 
observing human rights.
• Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards we 
expect from suppliers and their employees, contractors, agents and 
subsidiaries when working on our behalf. The code covers human 
rights and labour laws, support for local communities, environmental 
impacts as well as bribery and corruption. 
• Our internal policies, practices and guidelines also cover anti-
discrimination, grievance and whistleblowing procedures (see 
page 71), health & safety (see page 51), sustainability, anti-bribery & 
corruption, fraud (see page 71), conflicts of interest, data protection 
and security, various sanctions and third party due diligence.
• TUI Travel joined Transparency International UK’s Business Integrity 
Forum in 2014.
• We have been named a Top Member of the Code of Conduct for the 
Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel & Tourism 
in 2014 and our businesses support child protection projects 
and campaigns.
• The majority of our businesses have incorporated environmental and 
social minimum standards into contracts for accommodation suppliers.
• Our goal is to deliver 10 million ‘greener and fairer’ holidays and to 
encourage our hotel suppliers to implement credible sustainability 
certifications. Travelife is the system of choice for the majority of 
our businesses and we helped them to develop new, stricter criteria, 
including human rights (incorporating the principles of the Ethical 
Trading Base Code), which were launched in 2014.
We continue to work with stakeholders to understand and respond  
to human rights issues better. 
To read our policies, visit:  www.tuitravelplc.com
• Sportsworld achieved ISO 20121 for sustainable event management.
• TUI Nederland won the ‘Overall winner’ award and the ‘Best for child 
protection’ award at the 2013 World Responsible Tourism Awards.
We are involved in hundreds of projects that support communities 
and reduce environmental impacts. Where we can, we focus on those 
destinations where we send the most customers and where we believe 
we can make the greatest difference. In FY14 this included Brazil, 
Cape Verde, Jamaica, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia and Turkey.
M e asu r i n g 	 t o u r ism ’ s 	 i m pact	
We are trialling a big picture approach to measuring and understanding 
the impact of tourism. In partnership with the Travel Foundation, and 
using a methodology developed by PwC, we aim to value the various 
economic, fiscal, social and environmental impacts of tourism in Cyprus.
PwC’s ‘Total Impact Measurement & Management’ (TIMM) framework 
will be applied to our Mainstream Sector tourism operations, focusing 
on a selection of hotels in Cyprus. This is the first time the methodology 
has been applied to tourism. Cyprus was chosen for this project as it is 
a Mainstream destination and an important destination for TUI Travel. 
The pilot is expected to provide new insights into the impacts, both 
positive and negative, of Mainstream tourism on a holiday destination 
and to highlight the practical implications of undertaking holistic impact 
measurement more widely in the industry and/or in other destinations.
All the impacts will be measured and valued, so that they can be 
considered alongside the more traditional financial measures used 
for strategic business decisions. The impact of transport to/from the 
hotels, hotel operations, the entire tourism supply chain within Cyprus 
and customer and employee spending impacts will all be within scope, 
covering aspects of tourism such as: working conditions, social/
community benefits, local economic benefits and tax contributions.  
We expect to publish our learnings from the pilot in early 2015.
c o m m i tm e n t 	 t o 	 h u ma n 	 r i gh ts
Human rights are basic rights that allow individuals the freedom to lead 
a dignified life, free from fear or want, and free to express independent 
beliefs. TUI Travel is committed to the protection of human rights in 
compliance with applicable laws, conventions and regulations throughout 
our worldwide operations. 
We acknowledge the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights and have many policies and initiatives in place to identify, prevent, 
mitigate and account for how we are addressing key human rights issues 
and challenges. 
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability 28 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | p roof 1
G O A L	B y 	 2 0 1 5 … 	
W e 	 w i l l 	 o p e ra t e 	e u r o p e ’ s 	 m o st	
fu e l-ef fi ci e n t 	 a i r l i n es 	 a n d 	 sa v e 	 	
m o r e 	 tha n 	 2 0 , 000 	 t o n n es 	 o f 	 ca r b o n	
f r o m 	 o u r 	 gr o u n d 	 o p e ra ti o ns	
We will measure this through TUI Travel airlines’ 
average carbon emissions per revenue passenger 
kilometre (CO
2
/RPK) and CO
2
 saved from our 
major premises, retail outlets, brochure paper 
production, differentiated hotels and fleets of 
vehicles (against 2011 baseline).
c a r b on
80%
Arke, TUIfly Nordic, Thomson 
Airways and TUIfly are  
all ISO 14001 certified –
covering 80% of our aircraft
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
We are committed to reducing carbon emissions which is 
a key challenge for TUI Travel and the rest of the industry. 
We want to prepare for a low-carbon future by reducing 
our environmental impact and encouraging our suppliers 
and customers to do the same. Travel and tourism accounts 
for around 5% of global carbon emissions (UNEP , 2014) – 
half of which is attributable to aviation. 
Carbon management is a critical part of our business practices, 
protecting the environment and saving us money now and into the 
future. Across TUI Travel, improved management of energy, natural 
resources and fuel across our operations has saved a total of £28 million 
in 2012 and 2013*.
We take this challenge seriously – the carbon efficiency of our airlines is 
one of TUI Travel’s key performance indicators as a business. Our carbon 
management strategy covers not only aviation but also hotels, major 
premises, retail shops, water transport and ground transport emissions.
Our customers trust us to make their holiday experiences special. 
Predictable weather, personal comfort and beautiful destinations 
are part of the product we sell – and all of these are threatened by 
climate change. 
We expect that national governments and international organisations 
will take decisive action on climate change, including putting in place 
fair and effective regulation around carbon. We have identified climate 
change-related regulation as a material issue for the Company (see 
page 50), and monitor upcoming regulation that could have a financial 
or reputational impact on the Group. 
In 2014, TUI Travel airlines’ total carbon emissions were 5,014,068 
tonnes, a reduction of 1.7% compared to 2013. Emissions from aviation 
make up over 88% of our Company’s carbon footprint.
We operate Europe’s most fuel-efficient airlines, investing in cutting-
edge aviation technology and playing an active role in advocating 
smarter carbon legislation. 
F y 1 4 	 h igh l igh t s
• CO
2
 per revenue passenger kilometre (RPK) across TUI Travel 
airlines in 2013/14 of 69.9g (an improvement of 10.3% since 2007/08) 
– making us the most efficient airlines in Europe and beyond. 
• TUIfly was ranked the most climate-efficient charter airline 
worldwide for the third year in a row and most climate-efficient 
airline in the world with more than one million passengers for the 
second year in a row in the 2014 atmosfair Airline Index. 
• Thomson Airways won the Best Aviation Programme for Carbon 
Reduction at the 2014 World Responsible Tourism Awards.
• Arke achieved ISO 14001 certification (an international environmental 
management standard). TUIfly Nordic, Thomson Airways and TUIfly 
are also ISO 14001 certified – this certification now covers 80% of 
our aircraft. 
• 97% of our aircraft are now fitted with fuel-saving blended winglets, 
reducing fuel burn by up to 5%. 
• TUI Travel airlines were the first in Europe to use the new innovative 
Split Scimitar Winglets, reducing fuel burn by an additional 2%.
• Thomson Airways, Jetairfly and Arkefly have all taken delivery of 
the innovative Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft, which has exceptional 
environmental performance.
Ai RLine	 G h G 	 e Mi SSi On S	D A t A	FOR	Pe Ri OD	 1 	 Oc t OBe R	 20 1 3 	 –	
30 	 Se P te MBe R	 20 1 4 	 inten Sit y 	 ( Re L A tive ) 	M e t Ric
TUI Travel airlines
gCO
2
/Revenue 
Passenger  
Km
gCO
2
e/Revenue 
Passenger 
Km
Arke 71.0g 71.7g
Corsair 83.4g 84.3g
Jetairfly 73.0g 73.8g
Thomson Airways 67.1g 67.8g
TUIfly 66.3g 67.0g
TUIfly Nordic 65.4g 66.1g
TUI Travel airlines (average)* 69.9g 70.6g
* When calculating the carbon-
efficiency [relative or intensity 
metric] the focus is on 
‘Revenue’ flights, i.e. RPK. This 
includes all flights conducted 
under TUI Travel airlines flight 
numbers. It excludes sub-
charters flying for TUI Travel 
airlines; sub-charters TUI 
Travel airlines fly for other 
airlines; positioning flights 
(but includes ferry flights); ad 
hoc flights such as for training, 
technical, all-cargo.
S t R A t e G i c	R e P O R t 	HOW WE DO IT
Sustainable development 201 2/ 1 3* 201 2/ 1 3*
TUI Travel airlines** 
and aviation 88.4%
Water transport 4.1%
Ground transport 0.4%
Major premises 0.6%
Differentiated hotels 5.5%
Other (indirect emissions 
including business 
travel by air) 1.0%
2013/ 1 4*
* Carbon footprint covers 
Scope 1 (direct emissions) 
and Scope 2 & 3 
(indirect emissions). 
**The scope of the TUI Travel 
airlines carbon data is as 
follows: for the absolute 
fuel burn and carbon data 
calculations, all flights 
conducted under each 
airline’s flight number 
including sub-charters 
flown by TUI Travel airlines 
but excluding sub-charters 
the TUI Travel airlines fly 
for other airlines are 
included in the scope. 
29 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
BRe AKDO W n	 OF 	t Ui	t R A ve L ’S	 	
c AR B O n 	 F O O t P R int
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
• We have partnered with Boeing for the next phase of their 
ecoDemonstrator Programme, which aims to accelerate the 
development and testing of technologies to improve the 
environmental performance and sustainability of commercial 
airplanes. Testing of the TUI-branded ecoDemonstrator 757 
Flight Test Airplane will commence in 2015.
• TUIfly Nordic has joined the Nordic Initiative for Sustainable 
Aviation (NISA), which brings together key players from the 
Nordic aviation sector to push forward the development of 
sustainable aviation fuels.
• Jetairfly and Arke introduced electric cars airside at Amsterdam’s 
Schiphol Airport and Brussels Airport.
• Jetairfly won the Environment Award at the 2014 Brussels Airport 
Aviation Awards. 
• Carbon emissions have been reduced by 19% year-on-year across 
TUI UK & Ireland’s retail estate and brochures.
We have developed collaborative partnerships with many stakeholders 
whose insight and guidance continue to help us develop our position on 
aviation and climate change. Examples include: CDP (formerly Carbon 
Disclosure Project), Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG), 
Sustainable Aviation in the UK, Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy 
in Germany (aireg) and AlgaePARC in the Netherlands.
Gr e e n h o use 	 gas 	 e m iss i o ns
TUI Travel has reported on all of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 
sources required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and 
Directors’ Reports Regulations 2013). The organisational boundary 
used for its Scope 1 & 2 and, where appropriate, Scope 3 inventory  
of GHG emissions is operational control and it corresponds to the 
Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
TUI Travel is disclosing carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2
e) data for  
both its absolute and relative emissions. CO
2
e refers to CO
2
 and  
the other five Kyoto GHGs – (Methane (CH
4
); Nitrous oxide (N2O); 
Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); Perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and Sulphur 
hexafluoride (SF
6
).
All material GHG emissions have been included and disclosed following 
a thorough review of entities and the emissions sources across the 
Company’s UK and international operations. The methodology for  
the assessment is based on voluntary and mandatory GHG reporting 
guidance issued by DEFRA (the UK Government’s Environment 
Department). Please see tables below for our absolute and intensity 
CO
2
e and CO
2
 data for FY2014.
*  An approximate figure of Group savings that have been tracked, gross of any upfront investments 
required to achieve those savings in 2012 & 2013. Part of previously identified cost savings.
**  PwC (the Company’s auditors) has verified the carbon intensity metrics displayed in the table 
on page 28 (PwC also assure our airline EU Emissions Trading Scheme data). To read our 
airline carbon data methodology document and PwC’s Assurance Report in full, please visit: 
  
www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability/carbon
GL OBAL	 Gh G 	 e Mi SSi On S	D A t A	FOR	Pe Ri OD	 	
1 	 Oc t OBe R	 20 1 3 	 – 	 30 	 Se P te MBe R	 20 1 4	
AB SO L U te 	 F i G U R e S
Source
CO
2
 [t] 
(tonnes of  
carbon dioxide)
CO
2
e [t]  
(tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent)
Total Scope 1 
emissions 5,865,385 5,927,861
Total Scope 2 
emissions 315,201 315,374
Other (Scope 3) 
emissions 62,206 62,391
G r an d 	 t o t al 6,242,792 6,305,626
Scope 1 covers 
direct emissions
 Scope 2 & 3 
covers indirect 
emissions 30 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | p roof 1
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
c ol l e a gu e s
Responsible Leadership is one of our core values and 
commits us to making a positive impact on society, 
celebrating local differences and contributing to a 
better world. Our colleagues need to be enthusiastic 
and knowledgeable about TUI Travel’s sustainability 
commitments and the role they play in delivering them.
Today’s employees are not only motivated by money and status but 
also by the knowledge that their employer’s values align with their own. 
The evidence shows that employees who are engaged in sustainability 
– who are encouraged to share their experiences with others – are 
happier and more productive at work. Values matter even more to the 
leaders of the future; 80% of 13-25 year olds want to work for a company 
that cares about its impact on society (Forbes, 2014).
We want our colleagues across the world to understand, and bring to 
life, the TUI Travel values and know that they can take action in their 
day-to-day lives. Responsible Leadership is increasingly embedded  
into how we measure behaviour and performance across the Group. 
We communicate regularly about the issues, successes and challenges of 
sustainable tourism to our colleagues. Across the Group, sustainability 
information can be found in recruitment materials, intranets, newsletters, 
inductions, blogs by senior managers, short films and e-learning modules.
F y 1 4 	 h igh l igh t s
• Sustainability awareness – raising initiatives were implemented 
across the Group, such as TUI Nordic’s sustainability training video  
for holiday advisers and Specialist Holidays Group’s sustainability 
week with a different theme for each day.
• Our colleagues united to protect holiday destinations by taking part  
in the Travel Foundation’s Big Holiday Beach Clean for ’Make Holidays 
Greener’ month in July. Over 700 people took part, cleaning 30 plus 
beaches and collecting 400 bags of rubbish (over 35,000 pieces).
• We have set up networks of sustainability champions, made up of 
people who know how to inspire change in their business area. For 
example, TUI Nordic has a network of ISO-coordinators who helped 
to implement ISO 14001, TUI Deutschland has Environmental 
Ambassadors who meet regularly, TUI Nederland has sustainability 
champions in each product department and TUI UK & Ireland has 
champion networks in place in retail, head office and overseas.
• Training programmes were rolled out across retail such as a 
sustainability module within TUI UK & Ireland’s new online induction. 
• Community volunteering programmes are one of the ways we engage 
our people in sustainability, enabling them to see projects in action 
and develop their own skills. Many of our businesses allow colleagues 
one day per year to volunteer for a charity in their local area. For 
example, 80 colleagues from Bedsonline Asia and Hotelbeds in South 
East Asia travelled to San Remigio, in the Philippines, to help rebuild  
a school devastated by Typhoon Haiyan. 
• TUI Travel was shortlisted for a 2014 HR Excellence Award for 
embedding the Sustainable Holidays Plan throughout our Company.
700
In July, over 700 people 
dedicated their time to 
help clean up beaches in 
20 destinations around 
the world
G O A L	B y 	 2 0 1 5 …
O u r 	 c o l l e a gu es 	 w i l l 	 ra t e	 	
t U i	t ra v e l 	 as 	 a 	 l e a d e r 	 i n	
susta in a b i li t y
We will measure this through the Your  
Voice global employee opinion survey 
results – aiming to meet High Performing 
Company scores for responsibility towards 
the environment and community for all 
colleagues and senior leaders.
F AM i L y 	 h OL i D A y 	 A SSO ci A ti O n
We are the largest corporate sponsor of the 
Family Holiday Association (FHA), a charity 
that provides simple breaks to disadvantaged 
children and their families in the UK. 
Since 2009 we have raised more than  
£2 million. Peter Long, Chief Executive  
of TUI Travel, was appointed President 
of the FHA on 1 October 2013.
 www.fhaonline.org.uk
S t R A t e G i c	R e P O R t 	HOW WE DO IT
Sustainable development 31 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Proof 1
G O A L	B y 	 2 0 1 5 …
c ust o m e rs 	 w i l l 	 r e ga r d 	t U i	 	
t ra v e l 	 as 	 a 	 l e a d e r 	 i n 	 d e l i v e r i n g	
m or e 	 s usta in a b l e 	 h oli da ys
We will measure this by our performance in 
consumer research in our key source markets.
c ust o m e r s
TUI Travel’s vision is to make travel experiences special. 
Customers are at the heart of everything we do, and 
that means we must involve them in order to become 
a more sustainable business and help drive a more 
sustainable industry.
Our customers are critical to delivering some of our most important 
sustainability goals. We need to make sure that clear links are made 
between sustainability and the holiday experiences they value, and 
encourage them to take action in a way which is engaging and memorable. 
We have found a positive correlation between more sustainable holidays 
and customer satisfaction.
According to the research we undertook in 2012, which covered  
3,000 people in several of TUI Travel’s key source markets, modern 
mainstream consumers are more engaged with sustainability compared 
to traditional mainstream consumers: 
• One in two would be willing to book a more sustainable holiday  
if available
• One in two want their holiday company to be clear about what  
they do to make their holidays more sustainable
• They are more interested in social and community issues than 
traditional mainstream consumers
• The sustainability aspects that interest them most in the destination 
are: fair working conditions; learning about the country and the 
people; and changing their behaviour to help the environment.
Sustainability is not a primary driver of consumer preference for 
mainstream holidays – customers are more interested in price, quality, 
food, service and unique destinations. The good news is that these are 
exactly the aspects of our holidays that sustainability helps to support. 
Minimising waste in energy and resources helps us deliver value for 
money. Hotels that treat their people and the local environment with 
consideration are developing a quality product with friendly staff. And 
beautiful, unique destinations rely on the tourism industry committing 
to protect them.
F y 1 4 	 h igh l igh t s
• We are encouraging holidaymakers to engage in sustainable tourism 
through our kids’ club activities, school education initiatives, 
customer donation schemes and sustainable tourism campaigns. 
• Since 2011, over one million UK school children have participated  
in the Eco-traveller programme which teaches them how to make  
a difference on holiday. 
• Over £1.4 million raised through the World Care Fund customer 
donation scheme. The funds are channelled into projects that  
help address the environmental impact of tourism, and support 
communities around the world.
• Fritidsresor, our brand in Sweden, was ranked the most sustainable 
travel company in Sweden in the 2014 Sustainable Brand Index and 
by the Differ survey.
• Across the Group our businesses are working to reduce brochures 
and to use digital platforms throughout the customer journey.  
The TUI Digital Assistant app has now been rolled out in Austria, 
Germany, the Nordics, Switzerland and the UK and has been 
downloaded over one million times.
• Our Mainstream businesses in Germany and Austria have partnered 
with myclimate to offset the carbon emissions from all customer 
rental cars from April 2013. To date, over 26,000 tonnes of CO
2
 has 
been offset via projects in Turkey and China.
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
1 	 mi lli o n	
Number of UK school 
children who participated  
in the eco-traveller 
programme (since 2011)
Givin G 	 B A c K
The Intrepid Foundation is a not-for-profit 
organisation and has distributed over 
AU$3.5 million to more than 70 non-
government organisations since 2002 
(matching customer donations dollar  
for dollar), contributing to health care, 
education, human rights, child welfare, 
sustainable development and 
environmental and wildlife protection.  
JAc K y 	SA y S	 “th A n K	 y OU …”
1 2 3
32 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Design
How we do it: Our people
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t
e n ga gi n g 	 a n d 	 i n v o l v i n g 	 o u r 	 c o l l e a gu es
Although TUI Travel is made up of a diverse and unique range of 
brands and businesses, they share many similarities due to a shared 
vision and common values. 
Nurturing these values is key to our strategy. Following the first TUI 
Travel Group-wide global opinion survey that took place in September 
2012, we identified three key areas to strengthen the engagement of 
our colleagues:
• Pride: Colleagues told us that they were looking for a better 
opportunity to identify with TUI Travel as a great place to work 
• Trust: We aim to build trust right across our organisation by giving 
people more opportunities to get involved and delivering more 
targeted and transparent communications
• Opportunity: Our colleagues asked us for better accessibility to 
opportunities that would enable them to grow and develop within 
TUI Travel. Colleagues wanted to develop a career within the 
Company rather than viewing their role as just another ‘job’
Over the past year we have continued to address these key areas 
through a number of Group-wide initiatives, detailed below.
P ride 	 – 	 the 	 intr oduc ti on 	 of 	 an 	 emplo y er 	 brand
People told us that TUI Travel was such a great place to work, they felt 
we should use the strength of our scale and size when trying to attract 
and retain people within the organisation. We also wanted to find a 
way to express what binds us today in a common and shared colleague 
experience no matter where you work in TUI Travel. To capture this, 
we have introduced an employer brand that describes, in a clear way, 
the experience you will have working for the Group. It is centred 
around the three key pillars described on the following page.
4. 	D A vi D	 BURLin G	 M a na g in g 	 Dir ec to r ,	 	
t Ui	 UK 	 & 	i reland
David was appointed Managing Director for TUI UK & 
Ireland (TUI UK) in October 2011. David previously held 
the position of Commercial Director for TUI UK following 
the merger of the Tourism Division of TUI AG and 
First Choice in September 2007. David was key to the 
successful integration of the businesses, ensuring that 
both brands had clear strategy for growth. David first 
joined Thomson Holidays in 1990 and is now a member 
of the Mainstream Sector Board. In April 2012 he was 
appointed to the Group Management Board. 
Our 	 visi o n 	 is 	 to 	 ena bl e 	 o u r 	 co l l ea gu es 	 to	
be 	 bet ter 	 co nnec ted, 	 m o r e 	 i n 	 to u ch 	 a nd 	 i n	
tune 	 wit h 	 o ur 	 custo m er s , 	 wh i lst 	 d el iv eri n g	
per so na l ised 	 h o l i da y 	 experi en ces 	 t ha t 	 wi l l	
a lwa ys 	 be 	 r emem ber ed.
t his 	 y ear 	 our 	 focus 	 in 	h R 	 has 	 been 	 on 	 dev elopin g	
a 	 co nsistent , 	 ef f o r t l es s 	 a nd 	 en g a gi n g 	 experi en ce	
f o r 	 o ur 	 co l lea gu es , 	 wh i ch 	 i n 	 tu rn 	 wi l l 	 be	
t r a nsferr ed 	 to 	 o u r 	 custo m er s . 	 On ce 	 a g a i n,	 	
o ur 	 co l lea gues 	 ha v e 	 sh o wn 	 gr ea t 	 pas si o n 	 a nd	
co mm it ment 	 to 	 ensu r e 	t U i	t r a v el 	 d el iv er s	
h o l ida y 	 experi en ces 	 t ha t 	 s a tisf y 	 t h e 	 e v er -
cha n gi n g 	 needs 	 of 	 o u r 	 custo m er s .
i	 w o uld 	 l ik e 	 to 	 s a y 	 t ha nk 	 y o u 	 to 	 o u r 	 pe o pl e 	 	
f o r 	 bri n gi n g 	 t he 	t U i	t r a v el 	 va lu es 	 to 	 l if e 	 a nd	
ma ki n g 	 it 	 such 	 a 	 gr ea t 	 place 	 to 	 w o rk .
Jack y 	 Si mmo nds
J A c K y 	S i MMOn DS	 G r ou p 	 h R 	 Dir ec to r
Jacky Simmonds joined First Choice in 2000 from Hearst 
Magazines UK (The National Magazine Company) where she 
led the HR function for six years. She was appointed as Group 
HR Director in 2010 having previously held a number of senior 
positions across the Group. Jacky was appointed HR Director 
for TUI UK & Ireland in 2007 and, following the merger, was 
central to the integration of the First Choice and Thomson 
businesses. Since her appointment in 2010, there is a more 
aligned approach to HR across the Group which includes the 
creation of talent programmes, global functions for resourcing 
and the development of an integrated HR strategy. Jacky has 
experience of leading large-scale transformation programmes 
on both a local and global level.
1 . 	 Pe te R	 L On G
2 . 	 Wi LLi AM	 W A GGOt t
3. 	 JOh An 	 L Un DGRe n
For Executive biographies go to page 64 4 5 6 7
33 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Design
• Winning Together: we are passionate about our work; we inspire  
and respect each other 
• Freedom to Shine: our global businesses are fast moving, dynamic 
and rich in development opportunities 
• Pushing Boundaries: we never stop looking ahead, seeking new  
ways to delight our customers and grow our business. We embrace 
technology, innovate and adapt at speed, staying true to our values.
Since being developed, these pillars have been used in a number of 
recruitment campaigns across the Group, and have provided a global 
identity for employees across the world for the first time.
t rust 	 – 	 in v olvin g 	 emplo y ees 	 in 	 the 	 wa y 	 w e 	 w ork
We’ve given over 300 of our colleagues the opportunity to get directly 
involved in the work to transform our business.
Many more colleagues are indirectly involved through focus groups, 
surveys and interviews, giving a broad representation of people a 
chance to have their say in making our business more innovative, 
future-proof and effective. 
With this ongoing dialogue at all levels, we are building trust and 
bringing the Company closer together. Beyond this, we understand 
trust as the experience of our colleagues in their daily work with their 
leaders and co-workers. We have put a great deal of emphasis on the 
ongoing, clear communication of our strategy and achievements as a 
Company, and will continue to invest in the development of our leaders 
at all levels. 
Oppor tunit y 	 – 	 global 	 j obs 	 and 	 learnin g 	 oppor tunities
In July 2014, we launched an internal careers portal to increase internal 
visibility of job vacancies across parts of TUI Travel for the first time. 
The portal is currently being developed further to give colleagues 
access to an even wider range of opportunities across the globe.
We have also launched a Global Learning Management System which 
will give colleagues worldwide access to state of the art learning once  
it is fully implemented. 
The portal encourages colleagues to take responsibility for their own 
development and is multi-lingual, accessible via the internet (enabling 
learning anytime, anywhere, via laptop, iPad or smartphone), and 
assists collaboration by supporting the transfer of best practice across 
the Group. The Learning Management system has been developed to 
facilitate a variety of different learning needs: personal and leadership 
development, compliance/mandatory training and functional skills  
and knowledge. As well as being embedded in the Finance Academy 
with over 2,000 people actively using it, the Academy has now been 
embedded across our UK Retail and destination teams. 
In January TUI Germany implemented Magellan, a software 
programme allowing employees to be trained on a variety of topics 
including automated contract generation, employer’s reference creation 
and feedback sessions. More capability will be progressively added to the 
software to cater for all areas of the business.
We are very interested in finding out how these initiatives have worked 
to shift perceptions across the Group and will capture this during the 
Your Voice opinion survey in 2015. 
5. 	 Mit t U	 SRi Dh AR A	 c h i e f 	 i nf o rm at i on 	 O f ficer
Mittu’s main focus is transforming TUI Travel PLC 
into a digital online business that is able to serve its 
customers ‘Anywhere, Anytime, Any Way’. Mittu has 
led global technology teams and formulated and 
delivered several multi-channel technology platforms 
and industry-leading digital products. Prior to this, 
Mittu has held senior IT roles at global organisations, 
starting his career at American Airlines Decision 
Technologies and moving on to companies including 
Sabre Holdings, the world’s leading provider of IT 
solutions/decision support systems to the global travel 
and transportation sector, Ladbrokes PLC and AVIS 
Europe PLC. Mittu has featured in the top 50 of the 
TechRepublic CIO50 list for several years.
6. 	c h Ri Sti An 	cL e Me n S	 M a na g in g 	 Dir ec to r ,	
t Ui	 Germany
Christian Clemens joined the Group Management Board 
in July 2012. Prior to this, he was CEO of TUI Nordic 
from 2009 to 2012, joining the Company as General 
Manager Sweden in 2004 and then becoming 
responsible for Denmark, Finland, Norway and 
Sweden as COO of TUI Nordic in 2007. Between 1989 
and 2004 Christian held a number of senior roles with 
Thomas Cook Northern Europe. Christian graduated 
as an engineer in Industrial Economy.
7 . 	 JO An 	v i L à 	 M a na g in g 	 Dir ec to r ,	 	
Acco m m o d at i o n 	 & 	 D e s t in at i o n s
After developing his professional career in the Destination 
Services Division of the Barceló Travel Group, Joan Vilà 
was appointed Managing Director of the Division in 
1999, which was integrated into First Choice Holidays 
PLC (First Choice) in 2000. In November 2002, he 
became a member of First Choice’s Group Management 
Board. Joan is currently the Managing Director of the 
Accommodation & Destinations Sector of TUI Travel 
PLC and is also on the Group Management Board. 
He has an MBA from IESE, a degree in Economics 
from the University of Barcelona and has completed 
international business school programmes with 
Columbia Business School and IMD. 34 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Design
How we do it: Our people
continued
D i gi ta l l y 	 e na b l i n g 	 o u r 	 p e o p l e
Our Digital Transformation journey began in 2013, and has become  
a key feature of our strategy to become a truly consistent, effortless 
and engaging team.
As part of One Mainstream’s digital transformation, our vision is to 
create a single environment that is available to our global colleague 
base – anytime, anywhere, any way. This includes providing instant 
access to customer data, communications, colleague data, social 
interaction and working practices and improving collaboration and 
efficiency in how we work and increasing the awareness in expertise 
and knowledge sharing. In doing so, we will empower our colleagues  
to become brand ambassadors and encourage them to fully engage 
with our customers and their colleagues.
In our Mainstream and Specialist & Activity Sectors, we have been 
piloting schemes allowing our reps in resorts to support customers 
through iPads. This ensures colleagues can engage with customers 
over social media prior to and during their holidays, and thereby 
further improving customer service levels. We have had great feedback 
following these pilots and are looking into rolling it out across more  
of the business. 
Real time communication and collaboration amongst colleagues has 
been facilitated this year by installing an instant messaging tool  
(Lync) for teams based in the UK & Ireland and France. This is both  
an efficient and informative tool and allows people to make contact 
quickly, easily and simply.
i n v esti n g 	 i n 	 o u r 	 l e a d e rs
At TUI Travel, we know that we need talent and strong leadership, 
facilitated by development opportunities, in order to deliver our strategy 
and cement the business’s future. Some of the key programmes to 
support these opportunities are as follows: 
For high-potential senior leaders, there is our G l ob al 	 h ig h 	 P e r for m an c e	
Le a d e r sh ip programme which focuses on their development whilst 
equipping indviduals to support our commercial business growth 
and strategy. Sponsored by the Deputy Chief Executive and MD of 
One Mainstream, Johan Lundgren, the programme aims to enhance 
strategic thinking and leadership skills, creating the foundation for 
more active collaboration across the Group. 
The programme is run by the prestigious IMD business school in 
Switzerland, where participants solve real strategic business priorities 
in a learning environment which results in tangible improvement plans. 
We also have a development portfolio for colleagues in the earlier 
stages of their career who have been identified as high potential and/
or successors to commercial senior leadership roles in the future.
P e r spe c tiv es , sponsored by Joan Vilà, MD Accommodation & 
Destinations Sector, takes ‘Rising Stars’ on a journey to widen their 
understanding of the Group strategy and our expectations of future 
leaders. The programme helps drive the mobility of talent across the 
Group, supporting our culture of global leadership.
h o r iz o ns , sponsored by David Burling, MD UK&I Mainstream, focuses 
on high-potential senior leaders who have been identified as successors 
to more senior roles. The programme takes participants through 
a business-led initiative to identify ways we can meet our business 
challenges whilst also developing their personal leadership styles at 
all levels.
To support all managerial development, we have introduced two new 
leadership programmes: 
Leadership 	e ssentials 	– focuses predominantly on self and people 
leadership, how we expect leaders to behave in TUI Travel. It is designed 
for those who have just commenced their leadership journey to embed 
the behaviours which encourage and bring out the best in people. 
Lea d e rsh ip 	 e v o l u ti o n – an advanced programme focusing on people 
and business leadership. This is for more experienced managers, 
enabling them to explore the evolution of themselves as a leader  
and the organisation in the face of a rapidly-changing environment.
In addition to these Group-wide development initiatives, we also offer 
bespoke internal and external mentoring and coaching.
Through the People Performance management process in Germany,  
70 leaders had the opportunity to attend a development centre to 
build on their leadership potential, where they receive feedback  
from external consultants on their progress. By creating a learning 
environment where people can demonstrate high performance, we are 
able to identify potential, and in turn give them more responsibility.
In Germany we offer selected colleagues an opportunity to take on 
project-based work with a global perspective over a two-year period. 
Employees can take on the role of a People or Operational Leader, 
where they cover topics such as working in an international organisation, 
digital transformation, dealing with ambiguity, building resilience and 
change management. Part of the selection process to determine if people 
are ready to attend the two-year programme is successful completion 
of a one-day Development Centre, aligned to the requirements of the 
international Group development programmes (Perspectives and 
Horizons). All participants in this talent pool have the opportunity 
to apply for these international Group development programmes.
t t G 	 30 	Un De R	 30
 This year, three TUI Travel colleagues have 
been recognised as top up-coming talent in 
the Travel and Leisure industry. Benjamin 
Dean (International Graduate), Bart 
Quinton Smith (Analyst, TUI UK & Ireland) 
and Oliver Bowden (Senior Retail Manager, 
TUI UK & Ireland) have all been selected 
by TTG as members of the ‘Tomorrow’s 
travel leaders: 30 under 30’ scheme, which 
identifies and selects the brightest young 
talent in the industry. 
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t 35 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Design
Learning conferences have also been established as an instrument for 
the development of talent and management. This initiative was started 
by TUI Germany and is now a Group-wide measure in Mainstream 
Germany, where colleagues share experiences and understanding. 
The event covers strategic topics that underpin our business success 
and the satisfaction of our employees. 
There has also been a series of seminars run for our leaders. An example 
of one of these seminars, ‘Conflict management in change’, was devised 
to ensure we are prepared for upcoming change processes as well as 
dealing with resistance to change. Around 100 leaders have participated 
so far.
D e v e l o p i n g 	 o u r 	 ta l e n t 	 p i p e l i n e
The International Graduate Leadership Programme continues to 
attract, develop and retain high-quality graduates who are earmarked 
to become our future senior Commercial Leaders.
To reflect the increasing globalisation of our business, we focus on 
attracting graduates with an international mindset and a professional 
approach seen as suitable for our fast-paced, ever-changing 
environment. There are two small intakes annually, another eight 
graduates joined our team in September 2014 from France, India, 
Spain, Croatia, Germany, Romania, the Netherlands and Belgium. 
There is a mentoring programme in place on the Scheme which provides 
support throughout the 18-month duration, and senior leaders commit 
to meeting and helping graduates with specific assignments. Speaking 
a minimum of two languages including English, our graduates are 
provided with significant international commercial business exposure 
across the Group with the aim for them to become emerging leaders 
within four years.
Since 2010, 41 graduates have joined the business. They complete four 
business placements, a five-week overseas placement, attend four 
one-week training blocks and participate in a Group project to look  
at a business challenge. Over 80% of these graduates are still in the 
business. We have been recognised in Germany by the online career 
platform for students, graduates and young professionals, ’Absolventa’ 
– who have commended us for having a career-enhancing and fair 
International Graduate leadership programme. Also, in TheJobCrowd 
top Companies for Graduates to work for, we have been placed 19th, 
12 places higher than our 2013 ranking, with some excellent feedback 
being given by our graduates.
In TUI Germany we deliver an intern programme which forms part  
of ‘Adelante’, an initiative started by the Chamber of Industry and 
Commerce in Hanover to take action against the unemployment of 
young people in Spain. In April 2014 two young Spaniards began their 
three-month internship and from September they will commence a 
year-long internship.
In August and September 2014, 172 young people began their first 
professional job through TUI Germany’s retail, airline and TBS divisions. 
Over the next three years they will have on-the-job training with the 
aim of becoming merchants in tourism (travel agents), merchants in 
dialogue marketing, office clerks and aircraft mechanics. In addition 
to their practical training, TUI Germany will also provide academic 
vocational schooling, aiming to give young people the best possible 
start in their careers.
In June 2014, we launched a series of workshops for colleagues across 
TUI Germany, TUIfly, TUI Business Service, TUI 4U, TUI Service, 
TUI Aqtiv, TUI AG, Robinson Club and TLT Service. These workshops 
have been designed in an interactive and innovative way to discuss 
exciting, current and forward-looking strategic issues. The people in 
attendance found it extremely useful to debate current issues as 
well as network across multiple companies and learn more about the 
culture at TUI Travel. The events took place in different locations and 
were sponsored by senior leaders. They will continue throughout the 
next financial year. 
In the UK & Ireland we have a leading employer apprenticeship 
programme. We continue to partner with the Skills Funding Agency 
and City & Guilds to deliver vocational training through our in-house 
accredited programmes department. We deliver over 400 qualifications 
every year including apprenticeships, NVQs and Institute of Leadership 
& Management Certificate and Diploma programmes. The programmes 
recognise and support all aspects of our business and provide 
qualifications ranging from Customer Service to Chefs and Sales to 
Airline Operations. The UK&I team has supported the delivery of these 
programmes in the Specialist & Activity Sector of the JCA business 
and Specialist Holiday Group (SHG) finance. The expertise of the team 
has supported both of these areas to attract, retain and develop 
talented candidates.
To support succession planning programmes, we have launched the 
Institute of Leadership Management Qualifications Level 2 and 3 and 
currently have 82 colleagues on the programme. These programmes 
are designed to support and develop talented Sales Advisers and 
Assistant Managers, who undertake assignments and are offered 
opportunities for secondment, which in turn aids the Group with 
succession planning.
We also have a placement scheme, with eight students joining the 
2013/14 programme and another seven starting in 2014/15. The 
placement students work in different areas of the business including 
Product, Early Trading, Late Trading, Cruise Trading, E-commerce  
and Purchasing. There is also a School Leaver Scheme, which takes 
students that have finished their ‘A-Levels’ and, rather than going to 
University, join TUI Travel. This is a two-year programme where they 
work in the same areas as the placement students and eventually will 
aim to take on the same formal roles. This programme is in its third 
year now and is working well. We are working with City & Guilds to 
develop a specific qualification that can be awarded to those who 
complete the programme. 36 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Design
How we do it: Our people
continued
In our Specialist & Activity Sector great progress has been made to 
develop a formal graduate sales programme. This has been designed 
to improve the sales capability within this sector, building on the agility 
of the Specialist & Activity sales model, which can move talent across 
portfolios as required, whilst ensuring future managers are given 
development opportunities early on. 
The Navigator programme is one which is specially designed for 
colleagues who have been identified as young talent within Specialist 
& Activity, and forms part of the Sector’s succession planning. It has 
now been rolled out to European-based colleagues within the Specialist 
& Activity Sector, with plans to deliver this to colleagues based in the 
US, in the future.
Gl ob a l 	 m ob i li t y 	 a n d 	 c olla b orati on
In December 2013 we announced the transformation of our Mainstream 
Sector into One Mainstream. This was a turning point for opportunities 
in collaborative working practices, encouraging a global best practice 
model as well as global mobility, and driving a big picture mindset.
An example of this collaboration can be seen in our Digital Transformation 
model, where we have created centres of excellence (hubs) in which 
digital solutions are developed once and deployed to all Source 
Markets. The success of the TUI Digital Assistant app pays testament 
to what can be developed within these multi-locational, collaborative 
hubs, and it has now been rolled out into five Source Markets.
Two initiatives have been developed with the specific aim of building 
the global mobility of our colleagues across the Group, and furthering 
their career development. 
The first is a new global resourcing function, focusing on senior 
leadership and internal talent pools. This helps to drive international 
moves and internal promotion across the business, which forms part  
of our HR strategy, whilst the second is the development of ‘talent 
panels’, to monitor talented indviduals so the business has an easy  
way to input into talent discussions. 
A 	 t e a m 	 o f 	 i n d i v i d ua ls 	 – 	 str e n g th 	 i n 	 d i v e rs i ty
We have a global workforce with a wide range of different cultures  
and backgrounds, which gives depth and breadth of experience and 
understanding – a team of diverse individuals, all of whom contribute 
to our market leadership. 
Illustrating this diverse workforce, 57 of our 210 senior leaders  
based across 24 countries are female. Across our total workforce, 
approximately 61% of all employees and 30% of managers are female.
We are clear that we do not tolerate discrimination under any 
circumstances and our ethos is that opportunities should be equally 
available to everyone. We have principles and guidelines in place to 
ensure this is maintained at every level throughout our Company.
‘Spotlight’ is a new programme which allows us to identify and  
target specific groups who are under-represented in the Group.
R e wa r d i n g 	 o u r 	 c o l l e a gu es 	 a n d 	 su p p o r ti n g	
thei r 	 w e l l b ei n g
When it comes to making travel experiences special, we recognise that 
it is the dedication of our colleagues that makes the difference and we 
strive to make sure they feel valued.
Recognising the importance of good retirement planning, we continue 
to offer pension arrangements across the Group reflective of local 
legislative requirements, as well as the economic position of our 
business and local market practice. 
In the UK there continue to be significant changes to pension legislation 
following the implementation of pension auto-enrolment in 2013. 
We are working closely with our partners to ensure that we can adapt 
to facilitate these changes as they take effect.
The health and wellbeing of our colleagues is paramount and we have 
built upon the work started by TUI UK & Ireland and TUI Germany by 
providing wellbeing programmes and initiatives for our employees.
t Ui	tR A ve L	JOin S	 the 	t OUR i SM	i n DUSt R y 	c OU nci L
 TUI Travel has just embarked on a fantastic new opportunity to shape the development of the UK 
tourism industry. Along with 21 other leaders in the industry such as easyJet, Expedia and VisitBritain, 
it has joined a partnership with the Government. Together they will become the new Tourism Industry 
Council, using their expertise to develop skills and share best practices whilst enabling the tourism 
industry to innovate and grow. This is the first time that such a partnership has been set up and 
further cements our role as a business leader within the UK. Peter Long commented:
‘ The importance of outbound tourism in the UK can be overlooked at times but it is a significant 
part of the industry. We alone take over five million Britons on holiday every year directly 
employing some 20,000 people in the UK. I’m therefore delighted to be part of the Council and I 
look forward to playing my part in the development of our industry now and in the years to come.’
 The partnership follows a recent government drive to increase the availability of apprenticeships 
within the country. It is also, significantly, the first time that there has been a cross-government 
council including both the Tourism Minister and the Minister for Skills and Enterprise.
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t O u r 	 a p p r e n ti c esh i ps 	 c o n ti n u e 	 t o 	 w i n	
a wards!
1 . 	 Samantha 	 R eed was a finalist and highly 
commended at the TT G ‘Travel Seller of  
the Year’
2. 	 Sophie 	 Pa ge was a recent City and Guilds  
‘Medal for Excellence’ winner
3 . 	t homas 	n ewb y was a regional finalist and highly 
commended in the National Apprenticeship Award
37 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | 13/10/2014 | Design S t R A t e G y
S t R A t e G i c	
DR ive R S
G R O W t h 	 	
RO ADM AP 	 t ARG e t
D e L ive R in G	
	 M A i n S t R e A M 	 GROW t h
O RG A n i c 	 S Pe c i AL i S t 	
& 	 Ac t i v i t y 	G ROW t h
c O nte nt
B R A n DS 	 &	 	
D i S t R i BU t i O n
t e c hn O LO G y G R OW t h 	 	
& 	 Sc ALe
Pe O PL e
Ke y	 t O	 St R A te Gic 	DR ive R S
See more about our strategic drivers on page 14
38 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | XX/08/2014 | Design
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t
How we measure it: Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Uniq U e 	hOL i D A y S	O n Ly 	A v A i LABL e 	FROM	t U i	tRA ve L
Our unique holidays form the backbone of our Mainstream businesses 
and are exclusive to us. Unique holidays provide value added services and 
features which command a margin premium over commodity products. 
This in turn leads to higher customer loyalty and an increase in repeat 
bookings. Unique holidays also book earlier enabling us to manage our 
capacity and yield more effectively and it is very difficult for our 
competitors to replicate these concepts.
Di S t R i BU te D	D i R ect L y 	 t O	 the 	 c US t OM e R	 – 	GRO W th 	FROM	O n L ine
Our direct distribution channels are central to the Group’s strategy. By 
increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower distribution 
costs, reduce the reliance on third party distributors and can build on our 
customer relationships. As an online-driven business, we have a focus on 
the online customer experience. During the year, we continued to see the 
benefits of the investments we have been making in our online platforms. 
We are moving to one core online platform across Mainstream. 
Leve RA G in G	OUR	S c AL e
As Europe’s largest tour operator we leverage our scale across all source 
markets to consolidate our market-leading position and grow the number 
of customers travelling with us. Our One Mainstream structure is in place 
and yielding tangible benefits.
We have completed our strategic review of the Specialist & Activity 
businesses and have refocused our plans for profitable growth and 
improved operational efficiency. We have a strong portfolio of 
established and popular brands with leadership positions in market 
segments which are continuing to grow. 
W e 	 target 	 a 	 unique 	 holida y	
mix 	 of 	 7 6 % , 	 as 	 a 	 pr opor ti on	
of 	 total 	 Mainstr eam	
Sec tor 	 holida ys 	 b y 	 20 1 7 .	
W e 	 also 	 target	
c o n tin u ous 	 im p r o v e me n t	
in 	 custo me r 	 s atisfa c ti o n.
W e 	 target 	 a 	 dir ec t	
distributi on 	 mix 	 of 	 8 1 % 	 and	
an 	 online 	 distributi on 	 mix	 	
of 	 50% 	 in 	 our 	 Mainstr eam	
Sec tor 	 b y 	 20 1 7 .
Within 	 Mainstr eam, 	 w e	 	
target 	 o v erheads 	 of 	 less 	 than	
5 % 	 in 	 ea ch 	 sour ce 	 mark et .	
Our KPIs enable TUI Travel’s stakeholders to monitor performance against our 
growth levers (see more on page 55 ) and growth roadmap.
7 9%	
Customer satisfaction score 
in UK, Nordics and Germany 
combined during 2014
7 1 %	
of our Mainstream holidays 
were unique in 2014
W e 	 target 	 underlyin g	
operatin g 	 pr ofit 	 gr o w th 	 of 	
bet w een 	 8% 	 to 	 1 0% 	 per	
annum 	 bet w een 	 20 1 2 	 and	
20 1 7* , 	 includin g 	 deliv er y 	 of	
£9m 	 business 	 impr o v ement	
sa vin gs 	 durin g 	 the 	 fiv e 	
y ear 	 peri od. Unique 	 holidays 	 mix 	 as 	 a 	 propor tion 	 of 	 tot al	
Mainstream 	 Sec tor 	 package 	 holidays
2 0 1 3 :	[ x x % ] | 2012: 65% | 2011: 62%
c ustomer 	 s atisfac tion 	 for 	 [key 	 Mainstream	 	
source 	 market s 	 rated 	 out 	 of 	 a 	 tot al 	 of 	 1 0 0% ]
2 0 1 3 :	[ x x % ] | 2012: [xx%] | 2011: [xx%]
Pe R F O R M A n c e K e y 	P e R FO R M A nc e 	 i n Di c A t O R S
*at constant currency rates
39 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | XX/08/2014 | Design
In the year, we increased the unique holidays mix by three percentage points across the 
Mainstream Sector as a whole to 71% with improvements in all key source markets.
Customer satisfaction for the UK, Nordic region and Germany combined remained at the 
record levels achieved in 2013, with continued strong performances by our unique brands.
To measure our progress, we have two distribution KPIs: (i) direct distribution mix;  
and (ii) online distribution mix.
Direct distribution mix increased to 68% driven by all major source markets. 
The improvement in direct distribution was driven by the online channel which has 
increased by three percentage points in 2013 to 38%. Within this, the UK improved 
by four percentage points to 51%, the Nordic region improved by three percentage 
points to 70% and Germany improved by three percentage points to 11%.
The overall Mainstream overhead remained below 5% in 2014. The One Mainstream 
programme is continuing to deliver significant benefits and operational efficiencies across 
our source markets.
During 2014, the Specialist & Activity Sector saw a mixed performance from its various 
businesses, delivering a broadly flat result on a constant currency basis. We saw an 
improved result from our North American Education and North American Specialist 
businesses. Sport benefited from weak year-on-year comparatives as well as the Ashes 
and 2014 FIFA World Cup tournament. However, these results were offset by soft trading 
in the Adventure and Marine businesses.
Unique 	 holidays 	 mix 	 as 	 a 	 propor tion 	 of	 	
tot al 	 Mainstream 	 package 	 holidays
1
2 0 1 4 :	7 1 % | 2013: 68% | 2012: 65%
c ustomer 	 s atisfac tion 	 for 	 key 	 Mainstream	 	
source 	 market s
2 0 1 4 :	7 9 % | 2013: 79% | 2012: 77%
1
  Unique calculation for 2014 and 2013 updated to include Airtours brand  
and long-haul destinations not previously included within packages
Direc t 	 distribution 	 mix 	 as 	 a 	 propor tion 	 of	 	
tot al 	 Mainstream 	 package 	 holidays
2 0 1 4 :	6 8 % | 2013: 66% | 2012: 65%
Online 	 distribution 	 mix 	 as 	 a 	 propor tion	 	
of 	 tot al 	 Mainstream 	 Sec tor 	 package 	 holidays
2 0 1 4 :	3 8 % | 2013: 35% | 2012: 33%
Mainstream 	 overhead 	 as 	 a 	 % 	 of 	 revenue
2 0 1 4 :	4 . 4 % | 2013: 4.6% | 2012: 5.2%
Underlying 	 operating 	 profit
2 0 1 4 :	£ 4 0 m *
2 0 1 3 :	£ 4 1 m
38 %	
of our Mainstream  
holidays during 2014  
were purchased online
6 8%	
of our Mainstream  
holidays during 2014 were 
distributed directly by  
us to the customer S t R A t e G y
S t R A t e G i c	
DR ive R S
G R O W t h 	 	
RO ADM AP 	 t ARG e t
F O c U S	O n 	F R e e 	 c A S h 	F LOW	
G e n e R A t i O n , 	 RO i c	A n D	
OPe R At i On A L	e FF ic ienc y
Pi O ne e R i n G	
S US t A i n A B i L it y 	
c h A n G e 	 i n 	O U R	
S e c t O R
L e v e R AG i n G	O U R	G LO B A L	
L e A D e R S h i P 	 P O S i t i O n 	
i n 	 A ccO M M O D A t i O n	
W h O L e S A L e R
inve S t in G 	 in	
Acc O M M O DA t i O n 	 O t A
c O nte nt
B R A n DS 	 &	 	
D i S t R i BU t i O n
t e c hn O LO G y G R OW t h 	 	
& 	 Sc ALe
Pe O PL e
Ke y	 t O	 St R A te Gic 	DR ive R S
See more about our strategic drivers on page 14
40 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
tt27 | AR 2014 | XX/08/2014 | Design
How we measure it: Key performance indicators (KPIs)
continued
One of our key strategic objectives is to continue to improve the Group’s 
profitability and free cash flow and therefore deliver superior returns 
on investment. This improvement will allow us to invest further in the 
future of our business which will benefit our customers, colleagues 
and shareholders.
We are experiencing greater stakeholder interest in sustainability  
and believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect  
our product into the future and also support product differentiation,  
brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
W e 	 ar e 	 targetin g 	 our 	 airlines	
to 	 r educe 	 per 	 passen ger	
carbon 	 emissi ons 	 b y 	 9%	
b y 	 the 	 end 	 of 	 20 1 5 	 ( a gainst	 	
a 	 baseline 	 of 	 20 08 ).	
See 	 Sustainable	
d e v e lo p me n t 	 se c ti o n.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business (Hotelbeds and Bedsonline) is 
a market leader, operating in the B2B segment with a global distribution 
presence. We have a clear strategy of consolidating our market-leading 
position even further by continuing to grow our existing destinations 
whilst accelerating our expansion into new markets with particular focus 
on Asia, Latin America and Africa.
In Accommodation OTA (online travel agent) our focus is to build on our 
strong brand positioning of LateRooms.com in the UK and expand in the 
emerging markets through AsiaRooms.com across Asia and in Brazil with 
MalaPronta, Brazil’s fourth largest accommodation-only OTA.
W e 	 target 	 underlyin g	
operatin g 	 pr ofit 	 gr o w th 	 for 	
A c c o m mo dati o n 	 Wh o les a le r	
of 	 bet w een 	 1 5 % 	 to 	 20%	
per 	 annum 	 bet w een 	 20 1 2	
and 	 20 1 7* .
W e 	 target 	 gr o w th 	 in 	 traf fic 	
and 	 r oomnight s 	 in 	 our	
existin g 	 O t A 	 brands	
L at e R o o ms , 	 A sia R o o ms	
an d 	 Malap r on t a.
£ 1 2m	
business improvement 
savings delivered during 2014
2 1 %	
growth in Accommodation 
Wholesaler underlying 
operating profit in 2014*
W e 	 target 	 continuous	
impr o v ement 	 in 	 Gr oup	 	
R Oic	 and 	 cash 	 con v ersi on 	 	
of 	 at 	 least 	 7 0% 	 of 	 pr ofit 	
befor e 	 tax .	
S t R A te G i c 	 R e P O R t Pe R F O R M A n c e K e y 	P e R FO R M A nc e 	 i n Di c A t O R S
*at constant currency rates
41 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2014
	
S t R At e G i c 	 R e P O R t
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TT27 | AR 2014 | XX/08/2014 | Design
ROIC performance was strong, but slightly lower than 2013 due to the impact of foreign 
exchange translation and an expected increase in the underlying effective tax rate, driven 
by a change in the geographic mix of profit.
We generated a cash conversion rate of 85% in 2014, significantly in excess of our target 
of 70% of profit before tax. 
We delivered £12m of operational efficiency savings through the business improvement 
programme in the last 12 months. The programme is now largely complete.
Our airlines’ per passenger carbon emissions reduced year on year, from 70.7g CO
2
/RPK in 
2013 to 69.9g CO
2
/RPK in 2014, a 10.3% reduction against our 2008 baseline year. This was 
achieved through investment in new fuel-efficient aircraft, operational efficiencies, fuel 
conservation activities and capacity amends.
We had another strong performance in Accommodation Wholesaler in 2014, with 21% 
growth in underlying operating profit at constant currency rates. TTV grew by 15% from 
£1.655bn to £1.899bn in 2014, with 16% growth in roomnights. Top-line growth was driven 
primarily by continued expansion in Asia and Latin America.
Traffic and roomnights decreased by 6% and 11% respectively in the year, driven by  
a planned reduction in unprofitable marketing spend in AsiaRooms and pressure on 
conversion rates as customers increasingly switch to mobile devices. We expect this  
trend to reverse as we continue to improve our mobile capability.
8 5 %	
cash conversion during  
2014
14.6 %	
Strong ROIC performance in 
2014
Grow t h 	 in 	 underlying 	 operating 	 profit*
2 0 1 4 :	+ 2 1 %
Grow t h 	 in 	 roomnight s
2 0 1 4 :	+ 1 6 %
Decrease 	 in 	 traf fic
2 0 1 4 :	- 6 %
Decrease 	 in 	 roomnight s
2 0 1 4 :	- 1 1 % 
R O ic
2014 :	14 . 6 % | 2013: 14.8% | 2012: 12.2%
c ash 	 conver sion
1
2 0 1 4 :	8 5 % | 2013: 93% | 2012: 78%
B u s i ne s s 	 i mp r o v emen t 	 p r o g r a mme
2 0 1 4 :	£ 1 2 m
1
  Free cash flow excludes net aircraft pre-delivery  
payments and movements in restricted cash. 2013 cash conversion  
restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’
c arbon 	 ef ficienc y , 	 measured 	 t hrough 	 	
t Ui	t ravel 	 airlines’ 	 average 	 c arbon 	 emis sions	
per 	 revenue 	 pas senger 	 kilometre 	 ( g 	c O
2
/RP K )
2 0 1 4 :	6 9 . 9 g	c O2 / R PK
2013: 70.7g CO 2/RPK
2012: 73.0g CO 2/RPK
