 In what has been a very economically challenging
year in the global market place, where we have
experienced the deepest and longest post-war
recession, rising unemployment, loss of consumer
confidence and increased cost pressures, I am
delighted that TUI T ravel has achieved strong results.
For me, if there is one thing that really stands out 
it is the dedication and commitment of all our
colleagues at TUI T ravel.
I believe that we have the best management team
in the industry and this is borne out by the way
businesses perform in times of adversity. It is one
thing to perform well when the trading environment
is positive or benign but it is quite another thing to
produce good performance when times are tough.
We also have a good mix of tour operator and
functional experts across the Group which creates
the right balance to successfully manage what is 
a huge, complex international business.
It is not only about the team at the top though. 
We have identified our talent pool and considerable
time and commitment is going into developing our
leaders of tomorrow. I have had the opportunity 
of spending time with them this year and what 
a fantastic group of colleagues they are. It is both a
privilege and reassuring to know that as the business
grows we will have the right team to grow with it.
It’s been very interesting to see the reactions of 
our customers within our different source markets
during this period of economic uncertainty.
The first market where we saw a marked reaction
was in the United States. The sub-prime mortgage
issue was a significant factor and unemployment
rose much more quickly than in our other source
markets and consumer confidence was lower much
earlier. We experienced a marked drop in bookings
across a number of our businesses. Having taken
the pain earlier, however, the US market is now
coming back strongly and the businesses are
performing accordingly.
In the UK, we have experienced a later booking
pattern – if someone is concerned about whether
they will have a job or not, it’s not surprising that
they delay booking their annual summer holiday.
They did, however, eventually book and, because
we had ensured that we aligned capacity with
demand, although they were booking later, we
weren’t having to discount the price.
How are the different markets responding to
the current economic climate?
What are the highlights of this year for you?
There is evidence that consumer confidence in the UK
is improving as we’re seeing strong demand for late
bookings this winter. Furthermore, I am encouraged
by our booking pattern for Summer 2010.
In Germany and, to a lesser or greater extent, our
other European source markets, we think it could
be slightly different. The fiscal measures put in
place in these countries means that they have not
experienced the unemployment levels that we have
seen in either the US or the UK. Once these
measures cease we may see unemployment rise.
We are, therefore, planning cautiously for next year
in these source markets although there are positive
signs in a number of these countries.
We have experienced both lower demand and
significant cost inflation across the Group which 
we managed through our flexible business model.
Carefully aligning capacity with demand allowed 
us to achieve our required load factors and also
ensured that there was no excessive discounting 
in the lates market despite the later booking trend.
We have identified a number of businesses across
the Group that were or are underperforming and
we have taken or are taking appropriate steps to
address these.
In Germany, we have concluded a transaction with
Air Berlin who will take over our City Pairs business.
This allows us to exit an operation which made
significant losses in 2008. This deal makes strategic
sense for both us and Air Berlin. We are also
improving our product mix in Germany which will
deliver higher margins and have plans in place to
increase our controlled distribution.
In France, within Nouvelles Frontières, we are
rationalising the product range to ensure that we
operate programmes of significant scale to key
destinations. Corsair, our long haul scheduled
airline, was hit by a series of socio-political events 
in a number of its key destinations and we are
continuing to review its business model and
strategy. Our retail operation in both Nouvelles
Frontières, where we were sub-scale, and Marmara,
where we relied heavily on third party agents,
needed to be addressed. We are now selling
Marmara product through our Nouvelles Frontières
and Havas retail operations and the transaction
with Carlson Wagonlit Travel after the year end
gives us the scale we require.
In Canada, which is an extremely competitive
market with significant over-capacity, we have a
weak market position and made a loss of £24m in
2009. Having reviewed the strategic alternatives for
What steps have you taken to further 
improve the Group’s business performance?
Strategic overview | Chief Executive’s interview
An interview with 
Chief Executive, Peter Long
12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
www.tuitravelplc.com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Canada, we recently announced a strategic venture
with Sunwing, a leading tour operator in Canada. 
The transaction, once completed, will strengthen
our position in the Canadian market and bring 
a number of strategic and financial benefits to 
the Group.
For us it’s all about delivering sustainable longer
term growth and our flexible and efficient business
model remains key to what we do.
We will be focusing on continuing to improve those
areas of the business that are underperforming,
increasing our differentiated and exclusive product
and getting the right mix of controlled distribution
across the whole of our Mainstream Sector.
We will also look closely at how we shape our long
haul programme. Being the European launch customer
for the Boeing 787, we will ensure that we take full
advantage of the competitive advantage this brings us.
Within our Specialist Sectors, we have a unique
portfolio that is impossible to replicate and our
focus will be on driving organic growth in our
existing businesses and maximising further the
merger integration opportunities we have. We will
expand into new source markets with specialist
products, just as we did with Le Boat in Germany.
We continue to identify new market niches that
offer high-growth potential and where we can easily
establish a significant position. In Russia and Ukraine,
we will leverage and grow our existing platforms as
well as investigating further the potential of other
emerging markets.
Travel and tourism is the world’s largest industry
and has grown and changed rapidly over the last 
30 years. In 1979 there were 270 million international
tourist arrivals, this has risen to nearly a billion
today and the prediction for 2020 is 1.6 billion.
The mainstream tour operators opened customers’
eyes to safe travel beyond one’s own country and
people are more adventurous today. It started with
Spain, but now customers are more confident and
will happily go to destinations like Egypt, Turkey, the
Dominican Republic and Mexico. It’s not only about
a sun and beach holiday, many of our Group’s
customers want to go on experiential holidays like
sailing, trekking in the Himalayas, safaris or Polar
expedition cruising and these will continue to
become even more popular.
How do you see the leisure travel market
developing in the future?
How will your strategy and business model
develop over the next couple of years?
The new generation of aircraft, like the Boeing 787,
will allow our customers to fly even further afield to
new destinations in aircraft that are more fuel
efficient, offer greater comfort and are less
damaging to the environment than today’s aircraft.
We are in a constantly changing industry and if we
stand still we will be left behind. We put our customers
at the heart of everything we do and not only deliver
what they want today but continue to innovate in
order to deliver what they will want tomorrow.
Every year we face different challenges and we deal
with them, be they geo-political, natural disasters or
economic. But for me there are two key challenges
that we are addressing, one is carbon reduction and
the second is regulation.
We operate in a high carbon industry. Although 
we are a tour operator, first and foremost, we also
have a fleet of 150 aircraft to take our customers
on holiday and, unfortunately, today there is no
alternative to jet fuel. Mass production of second
generation bio-fuels, which seem more viable, 
are still a considerable number of years off. We,
therefore, have to do all we can to reduce our
carbon dioxide emissions ourselves and are making
a significant investment in new technology like the
Boeing 787. We have committed to reducing our
carbon emissions from our fleet by 6% by 2014.
We are supportive of the inclusion of aviation in 
the European Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) but
believe there should be a global emissions trading
framework for aviation which channels monies
raised from auctioning emissions allocations into
environmental solutions rather than national coffers.
We also don’t want to see the aviation industry
being hit twice, both by national governments in 
tax raising schemes and also by ETS.
As a tour operator we are heavily regulated and we
do not have an issue with that. What we do have an
issue with, however, is that competitors in the same
market competing for the same customers and the
same business, should be regulated in the same way
and this isn’t the case. We welcome the fact that
the European Commission is looking at revising the
Package Travel Directive which has been in place for
nearly 20 years and does not take into consideration
the way the leisure travel market has changed,
particularly in the last six or seven years with the
low cost carriers and online travel agents. Financial
protection also needs to be addressed especially in
the light of the number of airline failures that we
have seen and may well continue to see.
What are the challenges TUI Travel is facing?
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13
www.tuitravelplc.com
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at 
http://ara2009.tuitravelplc.com
