 www.tuitravelplc.com www.tuitravelplc.com
8 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 9
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and ﬁnancial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
initiatives across the Group and the improvement  
in working capital as a result of these initiatives has 
helped us to end the year in a net cash position.
As one of the world’s leading leisure travel companies 
we operate in a highly regulated industry from both a 
tour operator and an airline perspective. We work with 
national Governments and the EU to ensure that our 
position is understood and respected and our opinion 
remains that a level playing ﬁeld across the industry  
is a necessary requirement to allow good companies 
to ﬂourish.
We have a clear strategy and road map for delivering 
our strategic growth initiatives. As trading in the new 
ﬁnancial year progresses, it is apparent that customers 
in some source markets are booking later than usual 
and that the recovery in demand for North African 
destinations will be slow for some considerable time. 
We have adjusted our Winter capacities to reﬂect the 
current market conditions and are trading in line 
with our expectations. Summer capacities will be 
ﬂexed to match proﬁtable demand.
We remain focused on our strategy of increasing the 
proportion of sales of differentiated and exclusive 
product, and on increasing controlled distribution with 
a focus on online to enhance our customer access and 
reduce distribution costs. Through our new business 
improvement programme we have self-help measures 
in place to help offset the difﬁcult macro-economic 
environment, including clear plans in place for Germany 
and France. In addition, we continue to strengthen our 
cash ﬂow in order to fund the dividend and growth. 
All of which means that, even with the current 
challenging market conditions, we continue to 
operate from a position of strength.
Finally, I am very proud of all my colleagues – 
53,000 of them – who are passionate about our 
business and who each year face new challenges 
head on. I would like to thank them for all their 
efforts and achievements not only in their own 
businesses but also at the wider Group level.
Peter Long
Chief Executive
These achievements reﬂect the strength of our 
strategy to increase differentiated and exclusive 
product sales, increase controlled distribution with 
a focus on online to enhance customer access and 
reduce distribution costs, and the delivery of our 
turnaround and cost efﬁciency programmes.
Having experienced a strong start to trading at the 
beginning of the ﬁnancial year, the events of the 
´ Arab Spring´ affected our performance and we 
reported a £29m impact for the ﬁrst half. The 
ﬂexibility we have in our business model meant we 
were able to act quickly and move capacity for the 
Summer season from Egypt and Tunisia to other 
destinations, including Spain, Greece and Turkey 
– thereby mitigating the full year effect for all our 
source markets (except France). Our French tour 
operators rely heavily on these destinations where 
historically they have collectively accounted for 
about 40% of the programmes and 65% of 
Marmara’s alone. This, together with a weaker 
consumer environment, meant that they were 
adversely impacted for the full year and results  
for this source market were very poor. We have 
initiated a project to consolidate the businesses of 
the French tour operators with the aim of creating 
a single business with a long term viable future.
Across the rest of the Group, we delivered a good 
trading performance in the UK, Nordic region, 
Belgium, the Netherlands, Canada and Austria.  
The performance of our differentiated product 
continues to be encouraging. We continued to 
make good progress in business improvement 
(turnaround and cost efﬁciency) especially in 
Canada, the Netherlands and Ireland, which  
have now all completed their turnarounds. The 
performance in Canada is particularly pleasing 
where, following the completion of the joint venture 
with Sunwing, the business has transformed itself 
to become a market leader. We also achieved a 
signiﬁcant reduction in net separately disclosed 
items which were £74m (2010: £255m). 
We continue to focus on cash performance and ended 
the year with a net cash position of £4m (2010: net 
debt of £249m). We have a number of cash management 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee effective  
from that date. Also post year end, on 20 October 
2011, Johan Lundgren, an Executive Director,  
was promoted to Deputy Chief Executive with 
responsibility for the Mainstream Sector. Johan 
was previously Managing Director of the Northern 
Region of the Mainstream Sector.
The TUI Travel PLC Board has resolved to adopt  
a policy designed to achieve at least 25% female 
representation among its members by 2015. 
Sustainable development
At TUI Travel we have a ﬁrm commitment to 
sustainable development and our goal is to make 
travel experiences special. We seek to achieve this 
whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting 
culture and people and bringing economic beneﬁts 
to communities. The past year has seen our 
businesses continue to drive eco-efﬁciencies, which 
have brought ﬁnancial as well as environmental 
beneﬁts and sustainability has also stimulated  
a number of product innovations. There is also 
evidence that our most sustainably-managed 
hotels are also those which are delivering higher 
quality and customer satisfaction (See Sustainable 
development on page 28).
Colleagues
We are a truly international business and our team 
of colleagues, numbering some 53,000, are based 
worldwide. A large proportion of our colleagues are 
customer facing and the level of service they deliver 
to our customers is an essential part of the leisure 
travel experience. We have a committed team 
across the whole organisation and on behalf of  
the Board I would like to thank them for their  
much valued contribution to our success. 
Dr Michael Frenzel
Non-Executive Chairman
In January, the Group updated the market on its 
strategic priorities and the roadmap to achieve 
these objectives. Since then, we have faced not 
only the events that occurred in some of our key 
North African destinations but also increasing 
global economic uncertainty. It is testament to  
the strength of our business and its ﬂexibility  
that we have achieved the results that we have.
Results
The Group has achieved an 18% increase in 
underlying operating proﬁt to £471m (2010: 
£399m) on revenue of £14,687m (2010: £13,514m). 
Underlying proﬁt before tax is up 25% to £360m 
(2010: £289m). Underlying earnings per share 
increased 24% to 23.6p (2010: 19.0p). Following a 
reduction in separately disclosed items, the Group’s 
statutory proﬁt before tax was £144m (2010: loss 
of £73m).
Dividends
The Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 8.0p 
per share (2010: 7.8p). On 10 May 2011, the Board 
recommended an interim dividend of 3.3p per 
share (2010: 3.2p), thereby resulting in a full year 
dividend of 11.3p per share (2010: 11.0p). The 
Group has a progressive dividend policy and will 
look to maintain underlying dividend cover at just 
over two times.
Board
Two of our Non-Executive Directors, Jeremy Hicks 
and Giles Thorley, resigned from the Board in 
January 2011 and on 4 April 2011 Minnow Powell 
joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. In September, 
we welcomed another Non-Executive Director to 
the Board, Coline McConville. Post year end, on  
19 October 2011, Clare Chapman stepped down 
from the Board and Bill Dalton was appointed 
Strategic overview
Chief Executive’s statement
Strategic overview
Chairman’s statement
Having faced a number of geopolitical events in 2011, the most serious of which 
was the North African crisis, we are pleased to have achieved an 18% increase in 
underlying operating proﬁt for the full year to £471m (2010: £399m).
We are pleased with our performance in 2011 and have delivered another year  
of record proﬁt growth and strong cash ﬂow against a backdrop of unrest in key 
North African destinations and weak consumer sentiment in some source markets.
