 www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 9
Strategic overview
TT11 | AR 2012 | 20/12/2012 | Proof 5
cycle, which in turn helps us to manage 
capacity and therefore efficiency. We are 
always looking for opportunities to develop 
the portfolio of unique holidays across the 
Group and this will continue into 2013 and 
beyond.
Our direct distribution channels are central 
to the Group’s continued growth. We have 
room to expand these in all our markets 
which will lead to improved margins and 
better results. The core contribution of  
our direct distribution comes from online 
channels. 
At present we consider ourselves to be an 
online-driven Group, however, we can do 
more. The online drive continues across the 
Group from front-end customer interaction 
at the time of booking to back office 
functions. Technology is an integral part  
of the direction we are heading in and as 
such, in March 2012, we appointed Mittu 
Sridhawa as the Group’s Chief Information 
Officer and member of the Group 
Management Board. 
We have been successful in implementing 
Group-wide cost efficiency and business 
improvement programmes as we have done 
over previous years. The total savings made 
this year of these activities equates to 
£42m. The drive for operational efficiency 
is Group-wide.
The UK has had a great year delivering a 
record underlying operating profit, up 32% 
on the previous year, to £197m (2011: 
£149m). This has been achieved through 
the increase in sales of our unique holidays 
and continued focus on direct distribution, 
with online as the core contributor, as well 
as our operational efficiency programmes. 
Our strategy has evolved over the year.  
It now stems from two very prominent 
customer demands in the leisure travel 
market – individualisation and 
commoditisation. We see these trends as 
central to our future growth and have 
developed two strong business models  
(see How we do it: Business models 
section) that satisfy these customer 
demands. One model addresses the Tour 
Operator segment of the market, satisfying 
the individualisation demands of our 
customers. In practice, this means offering 
unique holidays to customers through our 
Mainstream Sector, such as Sensatori in the 
UK, Sensimar in Germany and Blue Village 
in the Nordics, and also includes our 
Specialist & Activity Sector offering,  
focused on tailor-made holidays, including 
private jet tours, polar expeditions and 
sailing experiences among many others. 
The other model addresses the Online 
Accommodation segment of the market, 
satisfying the commoditisation demands  
of our customers. We are able to take 
advantage of our scale and technological 
developments to offer our customers a 
wide variety of choice at very competitive 
prices. We have the market-leading position 
in Accommodation Wholesale and continue 
to invest in our own Accommodation Online 
Travel Agent (OTA) business.
We have had a good start to the new 
financial year with strong Winter 2012/13 
trading. For the two markets on sale for 
Summer 2013 we have increased capacity, 
showing our confidence in the market  
and our ability to deliver growth. Our 
Mainstream Sector has begun reporting 
from 1 October 2012 in its new structure 
which has been developed to accelerate 
more rapidly the move to modern 
mainstream. 
We could not do any of this without our 
fantastic colleagues, all 54,000 of them.  
I am hugely proud of every single one  
of them and would like to personally  
thank them all for their consistent effort, 
determination and successes in a 
challenging macro-economic environment.
Peter Long
Chief Executive 
This has been a year of record success 
across the Group, proving that our 
strategy is delivering results. We have 
recorded our largest underlying profit 
figure to date, despite the negative 
foreign exchange translation of £36m. 
On a constant currency basis, our 
underlying profit increased 12% to 
£526m (2011: £471m).
Underlying profit*
+12%
These are the results of a resilient  
and flexible business with the right 
strategy for the market and a large 
number of colleagues who care about 
our customers, are passionate about 
our leisure travel experiences and can 
plan, implement and deliver growth.
Our return on invested capital has 
increased again this year, now standing 
at 12.2%. With our weighted average 
cost of capital at 10% we continue  
to generate returns in excess of our 
cost of capital. We are therefore well 
positioned to invest further in the 
business and accelerate our growth 
plans. 
Return on invested capital
+12.2%
Overall, the Group has expanded its unique 
holidays portfolio (this is our differentiated 
and exclusive products combined) which 
books earlier and provides higher margins 
for our businesses. The sales of these 
products have continued to increase 
contributing to the success of the Group 
this year. The feedback received from our 
customers experiencing these products has 
been incredibly positive. This helps lead to 
repeat bookings, often early in the booking 
*On a constant currency basis
Strategic overview
Chief	Executive’s	statement
