 09 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
STRATEGIC REPORT
 
Bus Iness and f Inanc Ial Rev Iew
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
fI nanc Ial statements
 
s ha Reh Olde R Inf ORmat IOn
Chief Executive’s statement
margins, are often booked earlier leading to 
better yield management and efficiency and 
we receive excellent customer feedback that, 
in the majority of cases, leads to repeat 
bookings and advocacy within our customer 
base. One of our flagship unique holiday 
concepts is Sensatori from Thomson, which 
received a 92% customer satisfaction score 
this year. We have continued growing our 
unique holiday portfolio across the Group  
and remain committed to identifying 
opportunities to develop it further. 
Our direct distribution channels are key to 
the Group’s success and enable us to increase 
margin and improve results. The number of 
holidays booked through our Mainstream 
websites continues to increase and this 
remains the core contributor for direct sales. 
Of our direct sales, 35% are online, which 
equates to £3.7 billion in revenue. There is 
still ample opportunity to increase direct 
distribution channels which will help us gain 
further margin across all our source markets. 
We are an online business but we continue  
to drive further enhancements through 
technologies that amplify the customer 
experience at the front-end and drive further 
efficiencies in the back-end processes. In  
May this year we launched the award-winning 
TUI Digital Assistant in the UK as the 
‘MyThomson’ mobile app, which was very well 
received by customers, achieving a five star 
rating in the Apple App Store and topping the 
free download travel app chart shortly after 
launch. Since then, we have had in excess of 
180,000 downloads, proving we understand 
what our customers want and need from 
their travel provider. Post year end, we began 
the TUI Digital Assistant international roll-out 
with the ‘Meine TUI’ mobile app launch in the 
German source market. 
I am pleased to say that we were the first 
business in the UK to take delivery of the 
Boeing 787 d reamliner that has exceeded 
customer and our own expectations in its  
first few months of operation. t his has 
enabled us, and will continue to enable us, to 
fly to new and exciting destinations such as 
Thailand from the UK. In May we committed 
to purchasing 60 new Boeing 737 ma X 
aircraft and secured the option and right  
to purchase another 90 on the same terms.  
The deal will enhance our unique offering, 
replace older aircraft, improve fuel efficiency 
and help secure the future of our six airlines. 
The delivery of the 60 committed aircraft  
will run from January 2018 until March 2023. 
It has been a record year for us but we don’t 
believe it will stop there. We are pleased  
with the performance at the start of Winter 
2013/14, with 60% of the programme sold,  
and we are encouraged by early Summer 
2014 trading against strong comparatives. 
TUI Travel is structurally well positioned  
with a robust business model that gives  
us a long term competitive advantage. The 
business continues to deliver sustainable 
growth through our unique holiday 
experiences, increasingly distributed online, 
whilst leveraging its scale as one organisation. 
This in turn will drive further value for both 
our customers and shareholders. Building  
on this year’s outperformance where we have 
achieved a 20% underlying operating profit 
growth, I remain confident that we will deliver 
consistently on our five year annualised 
growth target of between 7% to 10%.
Our colleagues are the true driver of the 
business. Their commitment, endeavour  
and passion to deliver incredible travel 
experiences for our customers is proven in 
the exceptional results we have announced 
this financial year. I would like to thank each 
and every one of them for the dedication 
they have shown, and continue to show,  
each and every day. Thank you again.
Peter Long 
Chief Executive 
As a Group we have had a great year. 
Because of this, I’d like to start by 
thanking our colleagues across the 
business who have pushed themselves  
to deliver this fantastic set of results. 
Thank you. 
t his financial year has been exceptional and 
our strategy continues to bear fruit. For the 
sixth year running we have delivered a record 
underlying operating profit. t his year we 
achieved £589m (2012: £490m), representing 
growth of 20% over the 12-month period.  
On a constant currency basis, our underlying 
operating profit increased 13% to £555m 
(2012: £490m) surpassing the top end of our 
growth roadmap target (10%). Revenue has 
increased during the financial year by 4% to 
£15.1 billion, or on a constant currency basis, 
2% to £14.7bn (2012: £14.5bn). Our two 
largest source markets saw underlying 
operating profit growth of 27% in the u K and 
30% in Germany, delivering £251m (2012: 
£197m) and £113m (2012: £87m) respectively, 
while margins continue to improve.
Following these results it is obvious that our 
strategy of selling unique holidays directly  
to our customers is the right one. As the 
business continues its move towards a more 
online future, and while we efficiently manage 
our costs, we continue to build upon the 
foundations of a business set for sustainable 
growth. Our colleagues within the business 
care deeply about the customer experience 
and everything we do is built around 
enhancing it at every level, through every 
stage of the customer journey, from dreaming 
of a holiday to sharing it with family and 
friends once they have returned home.
Over two-thirds of Mainstream holidays 
booked are now unique holidays, an increase 
on last year that has been steadily rising  
since 2007 when this became the focus of  
our strategy. t he main benefits of unique 
holidays are five-fold. t hey provide higher 
£3.7bn 
Direct online sales 
across our Mainstream 
Sector
69%
Percentage of 
Mainstream holidays 
sold that are unique
20% 
Growth in underlying 
operating profit
2_ChairmanXandXCEOsXstatement_v32 copy.indd   9 13/12/2013   17:35 2000 2010 2005 2011 2012
677
807
949
995
1035
388
449
486
516 534
128
154
205
218
234
110
133
150
156 163
26
36
58 55 52
24
35
50 49 52
World
Europe
Americas
Asia
Middle
East
Africa
world economic outlook % change in G d P intern Ation Al Arri VAl S (m)
1.4
2011 2012 2013 2014
6.2
4.9
4.5
5.1
3.9
3.2
2.9
3.6
3.4
1.7
1.1
0.9
0.2
1.5
0.5
1.2
1.4
1.9
2
Emerging 
Markets
World
Advanced 
Economies
Germany
UK
10 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Str Ate Gic re Port
Why we do it: Market overview
t he economic environment
The global economic recovery has maintained the slow pace of 2012, 
with GDP growth recorded at slightly below 3%. This can be attributed 
to weaker domestic demand and continued low growth in several key 
emerging market economies, combined with the ongoing recovery 
from recession in the main European countries. 
While emerging and developing economies registered a 4.5% increase 
in GDP, advanced economies experienced a more modest increase  
of 1.2%. Our two largest source markets, the UK and Germany, saw 
growth of 1.4% and 0.5% respectively in 2013. 
[Source: World Economic Outlook Update (7.10.13), IMF]
Despite this slow growth Germany and the UK have seen 
unemployment decreasing year-on-year. Germany has the second 
lowest unemployment rate in the Eurozone at 5.3% and the UK has 
seen unemployment levels fall to 7.7% in 2013. [Source: EuroStat (2013 Q2)]
t he leisure travel market
2012 was a record year for International Tourism with global international 
arrivals surpassing the 1 billion mark for the first time. 2012 saw 
growth continue at 4%, slightly less than the 4.8% seen in 2011. Europe 
continues to account for over half of worldwide arrivals, reaching 
534 million in 2012. 
The travel market continues to be driven by high growth in online 
bookings and, while the uncertain economic environment has had an 
effect on consumer travel spending habits, demand for leisure travel 
remains strong. 
Customer power has never been greater in the travel and tourism 
market. Developments in technology allow the customer to compare, 
contrast and review their choices as well as interact with suppliers and 
fellow customers worldwide. So whether customers are looking for 
unique holidays with bespoke services or simply want to combine a 
cheap flight with a hotel, they have a wealth of brands and booking 
options from which to choose.
Our business model (see page 15) aims to cater to the changing market 
trends to best serve these differing needs of our customers. The Tour 
Operator model focuses on providing unique holiday experiences, 
coupled with end-to-end service while the Online Accommodation  
model focuses on providing a range of hotels across the globe in line  
with customer demand. This diversity of offering means customers 
searching for traditional all-inclusive packages, multi-stop bespoke 
itineraries or worldwide city breaks can all book with us. 
t he political climate 
As a global organisation, we feel the impact of government regulation 
in all of the markets in which we operate. Some of our activities, such 
as those undertaken by our airline, are heavily regulated. Many of our 
lawmakers, particularly in Europe, are becoming increasingly focused 
upon measures to protect customers.
Our political and regulatory affairs team seek to engage with legislators 
at an early stage in relation to all of those areas of regulation that might 
have a material impact upon the way we do business. Our focus is always 
to work with governments to bring forward legislation that is fit for 
purpose, properly balances the interests of industry and consumers 
and treats all industry players fairly.
The last 12 months have seen significant developments at the 
European level with the Commission proposing new legislation in the 
area of Air Passenger Rights and bringing forward proposals for reform 
of the Package Travel Directive. We have engaged consistently with the 
Commission as they have developed these proposals and will engage 
over the coming 12 months with the European Parliament and the 
Council of Ministers as they come to consider the suggested reforms 
in detail.
Aviation taxation also remains on the agenda as governments across 
the world look for ways to increase revenue. Our role is to remind 
them of the importance of the travel and tourism industry as a driver 
for growth. 
In the UK, the debate on airport capacity continues. We will maintain a 
full role in that debate in order to ensure that the specific requirements 
of leisure airlines and passengers are fully understood.
t he sustainability challenge
Travel and tourism accounts for 9% of global GDP and 6% of global 
exports. The industry will continue to be one of the world’s fastest-
growing sectors, with emerging economies in particular seen as engines 
of such growth (from 47% market share in 2012 and expected to  
reach 57% by 2030*). Tourism today is responsible for 1 in 11 jobs 
globally* but also for 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions**. From  
a sustainable development perspective this poses a challenge – the 
growth of an industry highly dependent on fossil fuels and biodiversity 
in a world of finite natural resources.
Our businesses have been facing up to this challenge for over a decade. 
For TUI Travel, responding to these issues means bringing sustainability 
centre stage, to build on the efficiency and resilience of our business  
and the services it provides. Our Sustainable Holidays Plan is a  
major step forward in our journey towards providing special travel 
experiences whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting the 
culture and people in destinations and bringing real economic benefit 
to local communities. See our Sustainable Development section on 
page 26 for more information.
Reference *United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), 2013 ** United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), 2011
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   10 13/12/2013   17:40 TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION
OUR 
FOOTPRINT
MARKET 
SIZE & 
COVERAGE
MARKET 
GROWTH
OUR 
POSITIONING
KEY TRENDS 
& FUTURE 
OUTLOOK
11 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
Our core markets consist of the UK, Sweden, Germany, France, 
Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Switzerland & 
Canada. Between them they account for £498bn of global travel 
spend. Our four largest source markets of the UK & Ireland, 
Germany, France & Sweden make up over 70% of this spend
*
.
The broad range of product and niche and international 
customer markets that apply to Specialist & Activity businesses 
make it difficult to quantify spend on these holidays but their 
geographical reach and popularity continue to increase.
The total Online Accommodation market accounts for £87bn  
of global travel spend.
Within the Accommodation Wholesaler segment, TUI Travel’s 
addressable market makes up about £17bn of this spend.
The Group also participates in the Accommodation OTA 
segment with focus in the UK, Asia-Pacific and Brazil, which 
accounts for £6.4bn of the total Accommodation OTA market.
Our core markets are projected to grow at a 3% CAGR over the 
next five years. The Mainstream holiday market remains resilient 
and continues to see growth in a tough economic environment.
The Accommodation Online Travel Agent (OTA) market is 
projected to grow at a CAGR of 9.6% over the next five years 
while the Accommodation Wholesaler market is expected to 
grow at a CAGR of 7.8%.
We continue to be the number one tour operator in Europe with 
either number one or two positions in each of our core markets.
In addition, we have market-leading positions in a number 
of specialist segments with a portfolio of unique products, 
unrivalled product knowledge and superb customer experience.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business (Hotelbeds & 
Bedsonline) continues to lead the market in the B2B space. 
With our Accommodation OTA business we are positioned strongly 
in the UK (LateRooms.com) & Asia-Pacific (AsiaRooms.com) and 
are building our presence in the l atin American market through 
MalaPronta, Brazil’s fourth largest online accommodation OTA.
Customers are increasingly moving towards online channels to 
fulfil their travel needs and we expect this trend to continue into 
2014 and beyond. We therefore remain committed to improving 
our online presence, increasing our participation in social media 
and moving towards an online-driven company culture.
Demand for unique holiday experiences continues to see 
strong growth and with a diverse range of experiences on  
offer, TUI Travel remains well placed.
Online Accommodation continues to be one of the fastest 
growing segments in the leisure travel industry. The recent growth 
is derived from the increase in online bookings coupled with 
strong demand from emerging markets. Online Accommodation, 
therefore, remains a key area for TUI Travel where we look to 
consolidate our leadership position within the Accommodation 
Wholesaler market and build on our international position in 
the Accommodation OTA segment.
[*Source: Euromonitor]
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   11 13/12/2013   17:40 Acc whole SAler
other
fr Ance
Germ Any
nordic S
uk & irel And
Acc ot A
inbound Ser Vice S
Source m Arket S bu Sine SS l ine S
See more: ‘How we do it: Strategic 
framework and business models’, page 14
Sector
See page
 
15
See page
 
15
See page
 
15
Mainstream Sector 82%
Accommodation & 
Destinations Sector 12% 
Specialist & Activity 
Sector 6% 
underlyin G o Per Atin G 
Profit miX by Sector
tui t r AVel P lc  
12 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Str Ate Gic re Port
How we do it: Our structure
TUI Travel is organised and 
managed through three principal 
business Sectors: Mainstream, 
Accommodation & Destinations 
and Specialist & Activity. This 
diagram sets out each Sector, 
what it comprises and some 
highlights.
Accommod Ation  
& d eSti nAtion S
t he Accommodation & d estinations 
Sector (A&d) is a global provider of 
accommodation and inbound travel 
services. it competes in fast-growing 
areas of the travel industry through 
three business lines: Accommodation 
w holesaler, Accommodation o nline 
t ravel Agent (ot A) and inbound 
Services. both Accommodation 
w holesaler and ot A use the ‘o nline 
Accommodation’ business model  
while inbound Services straddles  
both business models (‘t our o perator’ 
and ‘o nline Accommodation’). 
SPeci Ali St & Acti Vity
t he Specialist & Activity Sector 
(SAS) comprises more than 100 
brands offering a wide range  
of unique travel experiences to 
customers across the globe, from  
ski and sailing holidays to adventure 
travel and sports tours. t he 
Specialist & Activity Sector uses  
the ‘t our o perator’ business model.
mAin Stre Am
t he mainstream Sector makes up 
the largest part of our Group in 
terms of financial performance, 
scale, scope and number of 
employees. t his Sector incorporates 
our familiar ‘power’ brands, such  
as our tour operators, with circa 
1,800 retail stores across europe 
and six airlines consisting of 138 
aircraft throughout our key source 
markets. we report via these Source 
markets with the largest four 
reporting separately – the uk  
& ireland, n ordic, Germany and 
f rance. t he mainstream Sector uses 
the ‘t our o perator’ business model. 
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   12 13/12/2013   17:40 k ey de Stin Ation S
c u Stomer number S/
roomni Ght S
key br And S
13 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
Canary Islands, 
Balearic Islands 
and Greece
Canary Islands, 
Greece and Turkey
Balearic Islands, 
Turkey and 
Canary Islands
Morocco, Tunisia 
and Turkey
Turkey, Canary 
Islands and Spain
USA, Spain 
and Thailand
UK, Brazil, 
Singapore 
and Malaysia
Spain, Turkey 
and Egypt
Italy, France 
and USA
5.2m
passengers
1.6m
passengers
6.0m
passengers
1.6m
passengers
5.1m
passengers
25.2m
roomnights
12.8m
passengers
1.4m
customers
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   13 13/12/2013   17:40 PEOPLE
5
We respect our customers and never forget that 
they choose to spend their leisure time with us. We 
share a duty to maintain their loyalty and trust. We 
anticipate customer desires and everything we do is 
with them in mind. We believe there is no such thing 
as a mass market but a huge market of individuals.
OUR
VALUES
Through our global brand portfolio 
& travel expertise we are focused 
on delivering leisure travel 
experiences designed for our 
customers’ ever changing needs
VISION
Making travel 
experiences special
We share an infectious entrepreneurial streak and 
a clear focus on the need for profitability. We look for 
opportunities that have a commercial advantage for 
us and add value to our customers’ experiences. We 
predict, translate and bring to market new leisure-time 
products based on their genuine appeal to customers.
VALUE
DRIVEN
CUSTOMER
DRIVEN
TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS
PAGE
12
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS 
IN ACTION
STRATEGY
PAGE
16
PAGE
18
PAGE
20
PAGE
22
PAGE
24
• Unique, inclusive holidays
• Tailor-made holidays
• Range and diversity 
 of hotel stock
• Global destination and 
 source market coverage
CONTENT
1
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Market-leading brands
• Trusted brands – safety 
 & security
• High levels of controlled 
 distribution – focus on online
• Well known Accommodation
 Wholesaler and
  Accommodation OTA brands
• Online
BRANDS & 
DISTRIBUTION
2
• Flexible technological
 platforms to support 
 growth
• Market-leading technology
TECHNOLOGY
3
We are passionate about being the best and about 
winning with integrity. We seek the ideas and trends 
that change leisure-time markets for the better and 
move quickly to action them. We thrive on teamwork. 
We are not afraid of making brave decisions. We want 
to do something new every day and we love what we do.
PLAYING
TO WIN
We are committed to sustainable development and to 
making a positive impact on society. We know leadership 
has to be earned and we never take it for granted. We 
communicate openly and easily and help each other 
develop and grow. We celebrate local differences and 
actively seek to contribute to a better world.
RESPONSIBLE
LEADERSHIP
• Leveraging scale • Leveraging scale
GROWTH 
& SCALE
4
14 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Str Ate Gic re Port
How we do it: Our strategic framework and business models
Our Strategic Framework underpins 
everything we do and comprises our 
vision, Strategy, Strategic Drivers and 
the values that are innate within our 
business culture. Our strategic drivers 
are ingrained in our operations with 
a clear focus on Content, Brands & 
Distribution, Technology, Growth & 
Scale and People. Our Business models 
are derived directly from our strategic 
drivers, that were refined last year 
when we set out our growth roadmap, 
and focus on the two key areas of 
long-term growth within the market 
– Tour Operator and Online 
Accommodation. 
For more information please see the  
‘How we do it: Our five strategic drivers’ 
section page 16
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   14 13/12/2013   17:40 PEOPLE
5
We respect our customers and never forget that 
they choose to spend their leisure time with us. We 
share a duty to maintain their loyalty and trust. We 
anticipate customer desires and everything we do is 
with them in mind. We believe there is no such thing 
as a mass market but a huge market of individuals.
OUR
VALUES
Through our global brand portfolio 
& travel expertise we are focused 
on delivering leisure travel 
experiences designed for our 
customers’ ever changing needs
VISION
Making travel 
experiences special
We share an infectious entrepreneurial streak and 
a clear focus on the need for profitability. We look for 
opportunities that have a commercial advantage for 
us and add value to our customers’ experiences. We 
predict, translate and bring to market new leisure-time 
products based on their genuine appeal to customers.
VALUE
DRIVEN
CUSTOMER
DRIVEN
TOUR OPERATOR ONLINE ACCOMMODATION
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS
PAGE
12
STRATEGIC 
DRIVERS 
IN ACTION
STRATEGY
PAGE
16
PAGE
18
PAGE
20
PAGE
22
PAGE
24
• Unique, inclusive holidays
• Tailor-made holidays
• Range and diversity 
 of hotel stock
• Global destination and 
 source market coverage
CONTENT
1
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Knowledge & expertise
• Driving innovation
• Market-leading brands
• Trusted brands – safety 
 & security
• High levels of controlled 
 distribution – focus on online
• Well known Accommodation
 Wholesaler and
  Accommodation OTA brands
• Online
BRANDS & 
DISTRIBUTION
2
• Flexible technological
 platforms to support 
 growth
• Market-leading technology
TECHNOLOGY
3
We are passionate about being the best and about 
winning with integrity. We seek the ideas and trends 
that change leisure-time markets for the better and 
move quickly to action them. We thrive on teamwork. 
We are not afraid of making brave decisions. We want 
to do something new every day and we love what we do.
PLAYING
TO WIN
We are committed to sustainable development and to 
making a positive impact on society. We know leadership 
has to be earned and we never take it for granted. We 
communicate openly and easily and help each other 
develop and grow. We celebrate local differences and 
actively seek to contribute to a better world.
RESPONSIBLE
LEADERSHIP
• Leveraging scale • Leveraging scale
GROWTH 
& SCALE
4
15 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   15 13/12/2013   17:40 16 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Str Ate Gic re Port
1. content
see adjacent
2. b rands & d istribution
see page 18
3. technology
see page 20
4. Growth & Scale
see page 22
5. People
see page 24
How we do it:  
Our five strategic drivers
Over the next few pages we explore what our five strategic 
drivers mean for our Tour Operator and Online Accommodation 
businesses. We will outline why they are important to us, 
how we adhere to them operationally to ensure profitable 
performance, how we know they are working, and finally a 
selection of highlights from this past year. There are distinct 
parallels across some drivers, uniting the two business models, 
while the focus can be considerably different for others.
content c ASe Study 
Strong unique 
products: Sensatori 
& Sensimar 
Sensatori and Sensimar are two 
examples of our unique holiday 
offering, operating out of the UK  
and German markets respectively  
to a variety of destinations worldwide. 
Both concepts provide affordable 
luxury to the customer. Demand 
for these unique holidays continues 
(see KPIs section on page 38) and 
this year a new hotel opened for both 
Sensimar in Andalucía and Sensatori 
in Turkey. 2014 will see Sensatori 
open in Jamaica, and Sensimar  
open its first resort in Mexico. 
We continue to develop these  
unique concepts across all our source 
markets which helps differentiate  
us from our competitors. 
1. c ontent
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   16 13/12/2013   17:40 17 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
o ur content range and diversity  
is attractive to our customers 
w hy?
• An increasing propensity to travel due to global economic 
recovery creates an ever-expanding market place  
of customers looking for a competitive range of 
accommodation product, in terms of both geography  
and price.
• Travellers are increasingly exploring opportunities to 
research and book accommodation product online and  
thus they benefit from our large volume of well-presented 
content and price-competitiveness.
w hat are we doing about it?
• Ensuring that we have a wide variety of product, in terms 
of quality, destination and budget. It is also important that 
our content is translated well digitally, that it is rich, inspiring 
and relevant. 
• The emerging markets are increasingly important to our 
online accommodation businesses, both as a source market 
and as a destination. We have a clear strategy for targeting 
these markets, with particular focus in our five-year plan 
on further expansion in the Middle East, Asia Pacific, 
Americas and Africa.
h ow do we know this is working?
• Over the past year Accommodation Wholesaler (our B2B 
business) TTv has grown in the key regions of Middle East, 
Asia Pacific, Americas and Europe (excluding UK, Spain and 
Portugal) by over 30%. 
• The improvement in our Accommodation OTA hotel 
content is showing early positive signs, especially with the 
use of new ‘unique’ images on Malapronta.com, which has 
led to a positive impact in conversion.
2013 h ighlights
• Our Accommodation Wholesaler business has seen a 16% 
increase in hotel inventory in FY13. 
• The Brazilian Accommodation OTA, MalaPronta, has seen a 
110% increase in its hotel portfolio in the past year across 
the main domestic destinations of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro 
and Curitiba.
u nique content forms the backbone  
of our t our o perator strategy
w hy?
• Unique content is tailored to the differing needs of 
customers, ensuring that we offer the right product  
to the right customer.
• Provides value-added services and features which 
command a margin premium over commodity products.
• Books early when compared to commodity products enabling 
us to manage our capacity and yield more effectively.
• l eads to higher customer satisfaction and an increase  
in repeat bookings.
• Adds value to our brand – ma kes us identifiable and clarifies 
our brand proposition as an end-to-end travel provider.
• Finally, as all of our unique content is exclusive to 
TUI Travel, it also helps create effective barriers to entry 
for our competition.
w hat are we doing about it?
In Mainstream: 
• Continuously reviewing our existing concept portfolio, 
adapting where appropriate for different Source Markets.
• Developing new hotel concepts which are exclusive to our 
brands and in line with customer demand.
• l ooking at concepts from a holistic pan-European perspective, 
which would be suitable for Mainstream as a whole.
In Specialist:
• Maintaining our focus on providing unique experiences 
through our range of brands to cater to a wide range of 
customer needs. 
• In FY13 Hayes & Jarvis launched a tailor-made offering, 
providing seamless service to customers wanting bespoke 
itineraries to places such as India, South Africa and l atin 
America. 
h ow do we know this is working?
• Demand for unique holidays remains strong; in FY13 
unique holiday sales increased to 69% (FY12: 65%) of total 
sales across Mainstream. (See KPIs)
• Our unique hotels continue to register the highest customer 
satisfaction and retention scores across the whole portfolio.
2013 h ighlights
• In the UK the Couples proposition continues to grow with 
an additional 12 properties added to the collection in FY13. 
This brings the total number of units to 38 and underscores 
the confidence we have in our unique products. 
• SuneoClub – a pan mainstream all-inclusive 3* concept 
went on sale at the end of July for Summer 2014. The 
concept currently boasts nine hotels across Greece, Spain 
and Turkey and is a prime example of TUI Travel source 
markets working together. 
• Our Specialist brands also saw some exciting developments. 
Sovereign launched the ‘By Sovereign’ concept whereby they 
forged partnerships with key hoteliers to place in-hotel sales 
teams with specific expertise as well as rich and visible 
online content, driving considerable growth.
t he brazilian 
Accommodation ot A 
malaPronta has seen a 
110% 
increase in its hotel 
portfolio in the  
past year
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   17 13/12/2013   17:41 18 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Str Ate Gic re Port HOW WE DO IT: Our five s trategic drivers
2. brands & d istribution
br And S & d iStribution c ASe Study 
Offering more tailored products
Across the Nordics, there are a total of 10 next-generation stores that are proving that a 
modern high-street customer experience can complement an online-sales focus. We know 
that this combined strategy is working as a result of the exceptional performance of the 
Nordic countries – 11% increase in underlying operating profit for FY13.
Next-generation stores exist to inspire customers, giving them a modern pre-holiday 
experience in which staff play a more advisory role, rather than the traditional focus on  
sales. In this way, colleagues work with customers to understand their needs, before offering 
advice as to locations that fit their criteria. Stores feature modern technology, world maps 
and virtual brochures on large screens around the shop, for customers to peruse at will. 
Simultaneous to this, online distribution is at an all-time high in the Nordics, up two 
percentage points from 2012 to reach 67% in 2013 – demonstrating that our next-generation 
stores work with, rather than competing against, online points of contact. 
For more information about segmental performance, please see page 59
thomson.co.uk  
awarded the 
no. 1 
‘Socially d evoted’ 
business in the uk 
award by Social bakers, 
for the level of social 
customer service
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   18 13/12/2013   17:41 19 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
we remain committed to our focus on direct distribution and being online driven 
w hy?
• Increasing numbers of European travellers are researching  
and booking their travel via digital channels; we need to ensure 
we keep in step with our consumers’ evolving behaviour.
• One of the reasons cited for not booking online is the perceived 
lack of personal service. We are working on personalising our 
interactions with customers so we can learn more about what 
they are looking for, what they have booked in the past and 
what interests they have. This in turn informs how we develop 
and tailor our product and service and how we can market to 
and retain these customers more effectively.
• Having strong, recognisable brands plays a key role in the online 
world, helping to increase direct traffic to our websites which 
generally tends to have a higher conversion rate.
• Focusing our distribution on direct channels reduces our reliance 
on third-party agents and allows us to form a direct relationship 
with the customer. This also drives down our distribution costs.
• Direct distribution allows us to have greater control over our 
brands and how they are marketed and sold. The clearer we 
communicate about our brands and what they offer, the more 
likely we are to develop loyal customers who will become 
ambassadors, helping us acquire new customers.
w hat are we doing about it?
• TUI Travel is focused on b eing an ‘online-driven’ business  
providing customers with an easy and inspiring online 
experience. ‘Online-driven’ refers to the entire customer 
journey: inspiration, planning, booking, pre-departure,  
the holiday experience and returning home and sharing.
• 2013 saw the creation of the Mainstream Distribution & Online 
team providing support to all source markets and sharing best 
practice on digital matters, retail operations, CRM and ancillaries. 
This has led to the standardisation of several processes and the 
proliferation of best practice across markets with immediate 
financial benefit.
• A large portion of our market continues to value the face-to-
face service of a travel agency. We are working on transforming 
the traditional agency into the next-generation retail concept 
store to combine the expertise of our people with the latest 
technology as we move into a true multi-channel world.
• Our Specialist businesses leverage a strong brand portfolio 
offering everything from adventure and sailing holidays to 
private jet tours. We are investing in our online platforms to 
enhance booking and search functionality and provide our 
customers with inspirational content to showcase our products.
h ow do we know this is working?
• Online sales across the Mainstream Sector are steadily increasing. 
In FY13 online bookings made up 35% (FY12: 33%) of our holiday 
sales and we have clear strategic plans and targets in place  
to drive online sales further in all source markets (see KPIs). 
• All our Mainstream businesses have their core websites mobile 
enabled to take advantage of the growing proportion of their 
online traffic coming through tablets and smartphones.
2013 h ighlights
• TUI Nordic has opened new retail concept stores across its four 
markets which act as a branding and marketing channel supporting 
online sales as well as being a sales channel in their own right.
• The UK opened the first ret ail concept store in the Bluewater 
shopping centre. The shop includes next-generation design 
principles featuring user-generated content, digital billboards 
and interactive features.
• Our Mainstream businesses have over 2.5m Facebook fans  
with an industry leading rate of engagement. Thomson.co.uk  
was awarded the No. 1 ‘Socially Devoted’ business in the UK  
by Social Bakers, for the level of social customer service.
• Within our Specialist portfolio, our ski brand Crystal is increasing 
its direct distribution by reducing reliance on third-party agencies, 
and introducing price parity across online and offline channels.
d istribution is key to the successful performance of our o nline Accommodation businesses
w hy?
• As an ‘online-only’ business, it is critical we provide our 
customers with an effective and easy-to-use search and booking 
experience. In this arena, having excellent digital presentation 
and user experience is as important as good content. This 
means that the details – website response time, usability of  
the interface, etc., – are essential. Furthermore, consumers are 
increasingly expecting a seamless experience across all devices 
– so the mobile and tablet experience should match the 
traditional desktop experience.
• Maintaining our reputation is important to our Accommodation 
Wholesaler brands as the business is built on retaining 
customers who are loyal because of the service and product 
associated with our brand name.
• Growing our customer base in the competitive OTA market 
requires a combination of good brand awareness and strong 
online visibility in organic and paid search, together with a clear 
eCRM strategy to drive customer loyalty and repeat bookings.
w hat are we doing about it?
• Our Accommodation Wholesaler business is currently building a 
large client base to grow intra-regional and domestic penetration 
mainly in the Middle East, Asia Pacific, Americas and Africa.
• In Accommodation OTA our focus is to build on our brand 
positioning of l ateRooms.com in the UK and expand in the 
emerging markets through AsiaRooms.com and in Brazil with 
the acquisition of MalaPronta.com. 
h ow do we know this is working?
• Accommodation Wholesaler saw a 50% growth in the number  
of XMl links between their inventory and travel agencies’ 
booking systems, with half of these being in the Middle East  
and Asia Pacific.
• LateRooms.com was the most recognised Accommodation  
OTA brand in the UK during FY13 with 63% brand awareness. 
2013 h ighlights
• Our Accommodation Wholesaler travel agency distribution 
channel, Bedsonline, has seen an year-on-year increase of  
60% in travel agent bookings.
• We have launched the first stage of our eCRM personalisation 
strategy in our Accommodation OTA businesses in order to 
grow new and repeat bookings. 
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   19 13/12/2013   17:41 20 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Str Ate Gic re Port HOW WE DO IT: Our five s trategic drivers
3. t echnology
technolo Gy c ASe Study 
Providing seamless interaction  
for our customers
In July, we launched the award-winning TUI Digital Assistant in the form of the MyThomson 
mobile app, which allows customers to access information about and plan their holidays from 
the moment they book, through until their departure and even whilst on holiday. The app 
includes everything from flight information and luggage allowance details, to maps to help 
customers plan the best route to the airport. The personalised holiday countdown can also 
be shared via social networks such as Facebook and Twitter.
The MyThomson iPhone app was the most popular free travel app shortly after launch and 
had over 180,000 downloads in its first few months following release. Post year end we have 
rolled out the TUI Digital Assistant in the German source market with the launch of the 
‘Meine TUI’ mobile app and will continue this roll out to source markets across the Group. 
One of the main advantages of this technology is that we have one development cost that 
benefits all our markets. 
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   20 13/12/2013   17:41 21 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
t echnology underpins the distribution  
and content pillars of our strategy
w hy?
• Fast-changing customer demands require us to have  
a modern and flexible technological platform.
• It enables us to best showcase our product and 
communicate with and sell to our customers effectively. 
• By implementing robust back-end finance and reservation 
systems we can support business operations and also 
provide reliable and actionable management information.
• Having an efficient technology infrastructure allows us to 
drive efficiencies and therefore provides further value to 
our customers.
w hat are we doing about it?
• Within Mainstream, we are in the process of upgrading our 
web front-end reservation and finance systems across all 
source markets. These technology upgrades will provide 
our websites with new search functionalities, improved 
personalisation and richer content as well as enhanced 
mobile capability as our customers increasingly research 
and book their holidays on mobile devices.
• Our Specialist businesses have made good progress in 
consolidating their finance and reservation systems to 
leverage our scale across multiple brands and continue on 
their journey of standardisation, while balancing the varied 
requirements of the different holiday experiences they offer.
h ow do we know this is working?
• The Thomson & First Choice websites have recently  
gone through a major front-end overhaul. This includes 
incorporating Broad Search (flexible date, departure and 
destination options), self-validating search and filtering  
into the holiday search process. This has already resulted  
in a vastly improved ‘look-to-book’ ratio.
2013 h ighlights
• In the spring we launched the MyThomson Digital Assistant 
app in the UK – with plans to launch in other markets soon. 
This provides a one-stop shop for booked customers to 
purchase excursions, create a holiday checklist and review 
resort and destination information. Upon launch it was 
ranked as the number one free travel app in the Apple 
Store and downloads to date stand at over 180,000.
investment in t echnology is essential  
for our online based accommodation  
businesses 
w hy?
• One of the success factors for Accommodation OTA is the 
user experience on the website. In a competitive market  
it is what keeps a customer on the website and converts 
them from looking to booking. 
• To ensure smooth back and front office operations we 
need to have efficient finance and reservation systems. 
This also provides us with valuable management 
information about our customers’ preferences.
• Our customers range in type from businesses to 
individuals, and are based all over the world. We need to 
ensure we have the latest technology platforms, that can 
adapt to the evolving needs of this broad customer base. 
w hat are we doing about it?
• Both Accommodation Wholesaler and Accommodation 
OTA businesses are supported by efficient IT platforms.
• Accommodation Wholesaler operational systems are being 
upgraded in order to be able to continue improving service 
delivery to its global customers.
• In our Accommodation OTA business we are continuing to 
invest in a new platform to support our growth strategy. 
h ow do we know this is working?
• Accommodation Wholesaler’s in-house platform is one 
of the most robust, flexible and user-friendly in the 
industry, allowing for quick connectivity with hotel suppliers 
as well as our customer base of travel agencies, tour 
operators and OTAs.
• Accommodation OTA’s platform with the new onsite  
search and improved customer experience is providing 
more relevant search results and delivering site speed 
improvements.
2013 h ighlights
• Accommodation Wholesaler’s online platform recorded  
on average 1.5bn searches per month in FY13. Room  
nights grew by 16% (see KPIs on page 38).
• In FY13 mobile-optimised websites were delivered  
for l ateRooms, AsiaRooms and MalaPronta. 
in fy 13 
Accommodation 
w holesaler’s online 
platform recorded  
on average 
1.5bn 
searches per  
month
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   21 13/12/2013   17:41 22 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Str Ate Gic re Port HOW WE DO IT: Our five s trategic drivers
4. Growth & Scale
Growth & Sc Ale c ASe Study 
Consolidating our market-leading position
The Greek island of Kos is a prime example of how the Mainstream Sector is utilising its 
potential for growth, with three of our largest source markets reporting substantial successes 
on the island. 
Kos has become one of TUI Netherlands’ most successful destinations, reporting growth  
of 13% year-on-year. The market share of 35% of overall Dutch passengers to the island  
can mainly be attributed to differentiated products – of which Puravida and KidsClubs are 
the most successful, whilst its share of exclusive accommodation in Kos has risen to 33%. 
l ast summer, TUI Nordic re-launched Kos as a destination through an extensive line-up of 
differentiated concepts. The brand was the market leader for trips to Kos in Summer 2013, 
and received consistently high customer satisfaction. 
Over the past three years, our UK & Ireland Mainstream programme to Kos has grown by 
48%. This, coupled with the success of TUI Nordic and Netherlands, highlights how we are 
successfully expanding our business through a well-executed strategy.
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   22 13/12/2013   17:41 23 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
o ur scale and potential for growth  
make us unique
w hy?
• No other leisure travel business operates in as many 
markets and has as many customers as we do. The travel 
market nonetheless remains highly dynamic and competitive 
and it is therefore essential to seize new growth 
opportunities and maintain our market-leading positions. 
• l everaging our scale and driving further synergies and 
cost efficiencies also enables us to provide added value 
to customers.
w hat are we doing about it?
• 2013 saw us approach scale in a different way with the 
creation of the Mainstream Board.
• This gave focus to our efforts to leverage our scale across 
all source markets to consolidate our market-leading position 
and grow the number of customers travelling with us.
• Growth in new markets remains an important area of focus 
for TUI Travel. Our Russian tour operator business has 
given us a position in this market and we continue to seek 
opportunities in markets like Brazil and China.
• In our Specialist & Activity Sector we continue to review 
opportunities to leverage our successful brands in new 
and existing source markets.
h ow do we know this is working?
• In 2013 we successfully delivered on our profit growth 
roadmap of 7% to 10% as set out at the beginning of the 
year. We are confident in continuing this performance.
2013 h ighlights
• As a result of the formation of the Mainstream Board, it was 
decided to consolidate our Mainstream purchasing and digital 
teams as well as combining the efforts of our destination 
services team in resort. This has allowed us to maximise 
economies of scale and will continue to drive further 
efficiencies (see ‘Our People’ on page 34).
• In May we further enhanced our offer with the delivery of 
the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. This has meant we have been 
able to extend our long-haul programme and vastly 
improve our customers’ flying experience.
• Following a shareholder meeting in July, a proposal was 
accepted to purchase 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft showing 
the confidence and faith in the Company’s ability to grow.
• Our Specialist & Activity Sector underwent a restructure  
in late 2012 which led to the creation of two management 
portfolios: grouping Marine, Specialist Holidays Group  
and Ski together and uniting Education, North American 
Specialist and Sport. The aim was to facilitate better 
sharing of expertise and knowledge across divisions. 
Scale is a critical success factor for  
any online accommodation business
w hy?
• In a price-driven, lower-margin business, it is imperative for 
us to achieve high volumes and leverage common platforms 
and economies of scale in order to gain competitive 
advantage.
w hat are we doing about it?
• TUI Travel is a firm market l eader in the Accommodation 
Wholesaler market with operations in over 100 countries. 
We are continuing to follow our strategy of consolidating 
our market-leading position by expanding in existing 
destinations whilst focusing on our development in both new 
source markets, as well as new destinations, with particular 
focus on Asia, l atin America and Africa.
• Within the Accommodation OTA division we cover three 
attractive markets:
> l ateRooms has maintained its position as number 2  
in the accommodation-only OTA space in the UK. We  
aim to continue delivering growth by developing new 
distribution channels and new customer segments in 
this market.
> AsiaRooms is now an established and growing brand  
in the Asia-Pacific region.
> l ast year we acquired MalaPronta.com, Brazil’s fourth 
largest accommodation-only OTA, which helps TUI Travel 
establish a presence in this fast-growing and lucrative 
market.
h ow do we know this is working?
• Our Accommodation Wholesaler business has experienced 
+30% year-on-year TTv growth in emerging source markets 
(Americas and Asia).
2013 h ighlights
• In Accommodation Wholesaler global efficiencies were 
achieved by managing operations though centralised global 
and regional platforms. A good example of this is moving 
from 24 finance centres to three global shared service 
centres.
• Our Accommodation OTA business is continuously working 
on device-optimised sites and apps to meet growing 
demand. 
in 2013  
we successfully 
delivered on our profit 
growth roadmap of 
7-10% 
as set out at the 
beginning of  
the year
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   23 13/12/2013   17:41 24 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
5. People
Peo Ple c ASe Study
The Big Picture
The TUI Travel Big Picture was introduced in November 2012 to help bring to life our Group 
strategy, vision and strong growth plans in a dynamic and engaging way.
Supporting our open and honest culture, the Big Picture is designed to help drive colleague 
understanding, creating a dialogue about the path that we’re on and the role each of us has 
to play in the future success of our business, working together to achieve our goals.
Using an image to convey strategy and direction helps to make it more clear, consistent and 
memorable. In the UK & Ireland, more than half of our people could identify all three of our 
business goals unprompted following a conversation about the Big Picture. Before this, only 
20% could mention one of the business goals.
For more information about the Big Picture, please see the ‘Our people’ section on page 34 
Str Ate Gic re Port HOW WE DO IT: Our five s trategic drivers
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   24 13/12/2013   17:41 25 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
Str Ate Gic re Port
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAl REv IEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAl STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOl DER INFORMATION
People are a key differentiator  
at tui t ravel
w hy?
• At all levels of our business the experience, knowledge and 
customer focus of our employees is what helps us hold our 
market-leading position.
• The holiday experience itself, and the resulting satisfaction 
and loyalty of our customers, depends on their face-to-face 
interaction with our employees and the service they receive.
w hat are we doing about it?
• Investing in the training and development of our people to 
ensure that they have the right skills and expertise to provide 
us with a real competitive advantage.
• Communicating with colleagues regularly, honestly and 
openly, whether it be informal blog posts from the Board,  
or organised ‘Town Hall’ meetings providing updates on  
the strategy and five-year plans of the business.
• Enhancing our existing development programmes for  
senior managers and executives, as well as adding a new 
programme for junior managers. All three programmes are 
modular and are designed to educate and share ideas on 
trends as well as share knowledge and increase visibility 
across the Group to encourage mobility and synergy.
• Our International Graduate l eadership Programme 
continues to attract high calibre global-minded individuals 
interested in and suited to careers in our dynamic, 
fast-paced industry (see ‘Our People’ on page 34).
• Half-yearly talent reviews ensure that we monitor the 
talent and capabilities within our organisation and have 
clear succession plans in place for business critical roles.
• The l eadership & Development team has been centralised 
to provide a more holistic view of the business and allow 
for talent recognition and development support across  
all Sectors and functions.
h ow do we know this is working?
• We use colleague engagement and employee Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) as a barometer of employee sentiment. 
Current results show TUI Travel scoring well on both counts 
and we have targets in place, supported by cohesive plans, 
to exceed current performance.
2013 h ighlights
• We added a new development programme called Perspectives 
aimed at talent in the early stages of their career (see ‘Our 
People’ on page 34).
• Our new internal careers portal launched in July bringing 
together TUI Travel’s global vacancies for the first time, 
increasing the visibility of opportunities available across  
our Group.
People are the key driver of any  
online business where agility, speed  
and innovation are essential elements  
of success
w hy? 
• Attracting and retaining talent is increasingly gaining 
priority in a market characterised by rapid changes and 
high competition.
w hat are we doing about it?
• Building a strong brand proposition to acquire and keep  
the best online talent.
• Identifying knowledge gaps within the organisation and 
providing colleagues with the necessary tools and skills  
to succeed in the online world.
• Developing an online-driven culture where employees  
are encouraged to keep abreast of the latest trends whilst 
providing an environment which fosters new ideas and 
innovation.
• The mobile and evolving nature of our business requires 
we look beyond European boundaries when it comes to 
sourcing talent. TUI Travel continues to tap into the vast 
talent pool of markets like Brazil and South East Asia to 
fuel our global growth ambitions.
h ow do we know this is working?
• Similar to our Tour Operator businesses we measure levels 
of colleague engagement and NPS to gauge employee 
sentiment on matters such as senior leadership direction, 
career development and day-to-day job satisfaction, and 
ensure that we score highly.
2013 h ighlights
• High number of participants from the Sector in Group 
management development programmes, such as 
Perspectives and Horizons.
in fy 13  
we enhanced  
our collection of 
development 
programmes, adding 
Perspectives aimed  
at junior  
management
3_MrktXOverviewXStrucXBMXStrateg_v82 copy.indd   25 13/12/2013   17:41 70.7g 
of CO2 emissions per revenue 
passenger kilometre across 
TUI Travel airlines – making 
our airlines some of the most 
fuel efficient in Europe
26 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
How we do it: Sustainable development
STRATEGIC REpo RT
Travel and tourism is one of the world’s largest industries. 
The growth and employment it creates makes it of critical 
importance to the global economy. However, from a 
sustainable development perspective, the industry’s high 
dependency on fossil fuel, natural resources and biodiversity 
poses a challenge, one which our businesses have been 
addressing for over a decade. Our vision is to make travel 
experiences special whilst minimising environmental impact, 
respecting culture and people and bringing economic benefits 
to communities. 
Our commitment to Responsible Leadership is widely acknowledged. In 
FY13 we were pleased that our performance was recognised as follows:
• For the sixth consecutive year, TUI Travel was featured in CDP’s 
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) and was ranked in 
the top 10% of the FTSE 350 for o ur approach to carbon disclosure 
and governance. TUI Travel was the only Travel & Leisure company 
to feature in the 2013 CDLI and the only company to feature for the 
sixth year running.  www.cdproject.net
• TUI Travel was recognised by Carbon Clear for its approach to 
carbon reporting, ranking the Company joint sixth in the FTSE 100 
in its annual survey.  www.carbon-clear.com/uk 
• We continue to be listed on the FTSE4Good Index in recognition 
of meeting strict social, environmental and governance standards. 
• For the third consecutive year TUI Travel was featured in the 
RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook which highlights the best 
performing 15% of companies who submit data to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (the largest 2,500 companies globally).  
 www.sam-group.com/yearbook 
For further details on awards and our latest Sustainable  
Holidays Report, see  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
Governance
Commitment at the most senior level is vital for us to achieve our  
goal of leading the leisure travel sector in sustainable development. 
Johan Lundgren, Deputy Chief Executive, is the TUI Travel PLC Board 
sponsor for sustainable development and Jacky Simmonds, Group HR 
Director, is responsible for reporting on sustainable development to  
the Group Management Board. Jane Ashton is the Director of Group 
Sustainable Development. The Group Management Board acts as  
the Steering Committee, setting the strategic direction and long-term 
objectives for sustainable development across the Group. 
The role of Group Sustainable Development is to drive change towards 
a more sustainable business and to forge leadership in our industry 
sector. The team works closely with other parts of the Group and a 
network of sustainable development coordinators in each key source 
market/Sector who have a remit to develop and implement sustainable 
development strategy, supported by a network of champions. 
Risk management
Policy and mitigation for Group-wide risks relating to sustainability are 
facilitated by Group Risk Management and Sustainable Development, 
with responsibility for managing such risks also shared by the 
businesses themselves. Increasing legislative and societal demands on 
an organisation like ours require that we act responsibly and identify 
and manage our risks effectively. 
Key areas of risk identified are:
• Legislative and societal demands in relation to size and  
management of TUI Travel PLC’s carbon footprint
• Actions of colleagues need to uphold TUI Travel’s sustainable 
development policy
• Actions of suppliers need to uphold TUI Travel’s environmental 
and social supplier standards
• To understand better the socio-economic impacts of tourism
• Concern over damage to and quality of destinations due  
to ecosystem degradation and climate change
• Growing expectation among our customers regarding 
sustainability issues
For further information about sustainability risks and how we manage 
them see our latest Sustainable Holidays Report. We have also identified 
sustainability risks within the Principal Risks section, see page 42
FY13 highlights…
6 years
TUI Travel is the only 
company to be listed  
in CDP’s Climate Disclosure 
Leadership Index for  
six consecutive years
3.8m
customers stayed  
in hotels with sustainability  
certifications
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   26 13/12/2013   17:44 Co l l EAGu ES                                                          Cu STo mERS
CARBo N                                                        DESTINATIo NS
We will operate Europe’s most
We will deliver 10 million
fuel-effi cient airlines and save more
in sustainability.
delivering more sustainable holidays.
‘greener and fairer’ holidays.
than 20,000 tonnes of carbon 
TUI Travel as a leader
TUI Travel as a leader in
from our ground operations.
Our colleagues will rate 
Customers will regard 
TECh No l o GY              GRo w Th & SCAl E                   Co NTENT
STRATEGIC DRIv ERS
o Nl INE DRIv EN               Co ST EFFICIENCY
pEo pl E                                   BRANDS & DISTRIBu TIo N
v ISIo N
mAKING TRAv El 
EXpERIENCES SpECIAl 
whilst minimising 
environmental impact, 
respecting culture  
and people and bringing 
economic benefits to 
communities
27 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
STRATEGIC REpo RT
 
BUSIn ESS An D FIn An CIAL REv IEW
 
DIRECTo RS’ REPo RT
 
FIn An CIAL STATEMEn TS
 
SHAREHo LDER In Fo RMATIon
Our three-year Sustainable Holidays Plan was launched in 2012 and marks our journey towards 
a more sustainable future. It reflects significant integration of environmental and social 
principles into the way we do business – performance measures, processes and the customer 
proposition. It sets out four ambitious goals underpinned by 20 commitments in our priority 
areas – taking care in destinations, reducing carbon emissions and engaging our colleagues and 
customers in sustainability. Our Sustainable Holidays Plan aligns with our corporate strategy.
For further details visit our latest  
Sustainable Holidays Report  
 www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
Our Sustainable Holidays Report 2013  
is due out in Spring 2014.
o ur Sustainable Holidays Plan 2012-14
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   27 13/12/2013   17:44 28 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Go Al BY 2015… 
we will deliver 10 million 
‘greener and fairer’ holidays 
We will measure this by the number of 
customers we take to hotels with credible 
sustainability certifications from 2012  
to 2014, e.g. sustainability certifications 
working with the Global Sustainable 
Tourism Council such as Travelife, and 
international environmental management 
standards such as ISo 14001 and EMAS.
Travel and tourism accounts for 9% of the world’s GDP  
and 6% of global exports (U nWTo , 2013). Tourism also 
accounts for 1 in 11 jobs globally (U nWTo , 2013) and is the 
main source of foreign exchange in one-third of developing 
countries (UnEP , 2011). The leisure t ravel industry can have 
both positive and negative impacts on communities and  
the natural environment – the challenge is how to manage 
these impacts for the greatest good.
o ur business case
We want our holidays to benefit local livelihoods and protect the 
environment, and in doing so maintain the quality, viability and 
desirability of our products for years to come. We’re working with 
stakeholders in destinations around the world to make this a reality.
TUI Travel has a global supply chain, and our suppliers are the driving 
force for improving our sustainability performance in our destinations. 
Each of them plays a significant role in managing our impacts on the 
local community, economy and environment. 
We are committed to influencing more hotels to achieve credible 
sustainability certifications, so as to be assured that our suppliers are 
making continual sustainability improvements. This not only improves 
our sustainability performance, but also benefits our suppliers.
Depending on the region, energy costs account for between 5% and 
15% of a hotel’s turnover (blueContec, 2012), so reducing energy 
use can have a significant impact on the bottom line. We’re already 
helping many of our hotels by training them on eco-efficiencies, 
which ultimately delivers better value for money for our customers. 
Engaging in sustainability can help hotels differentiate their product, 
meet growing customer demand, and protect their destinations.  
There is also evidence that our most sustainably-managed hotels are 
those which are delivering higher quality and customer satisfaction.
We are involved in hundreds of projects that support communities 
and reduce environmental impacts. Where we can, we focus on the 
destinations where we send the most customers and where we believe 
we can make the greatest difference. In FY13 this included Brazil,  
Cape verde, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Greece, Kenya, 
Mexico, Spain, Thailand, Tunisia and Turkey. 
FY13 h ighlights
• We featured over 1,200 hotels with sustainability certifications.
• We took 3.8 million customers to hotels with credible sustainability 
certifications.
• We organised many sustainability supplier workshops, for example 
in the Costa del Sol, Italy, Kos, Madeira, Mallorca and Rhodes.
• TUI UK & Ireland worked with blueContec and Responsible 
Hospitality Partnership to provide their differentiated hotels with 
dedicated environmental consultancy. o f the circa 40 hotels who 
participated, reductions in energy and water consumption have 
already generated cost savings of nearly Euros 2 million to date.
• TUI nederland was the first major travel company to be certified 
to the new Travelife standard for tour operators.
• We were actively involved in the development of the industry’s first 
ever Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism, produced  
by ABTA – The Travel Association, and launched in June 2013. TUI 
Travel provided support for the guidelines at a launch event at the 
EU Parliament in Brussels and we continue to audit our suppliers 
against animal welfare standards.
• TUI Deutschland has partnered with GIZ to support a major project 
in Tunisia. In year two of the project, seminars took place with hotel 
managers on sustainability and equal opportunities for women, 
hotel staff were trained on service quality and customer satisfaction 
and linkages created between local women artisans and hotels.
Destinations 
370
Over 370 hoteliers and  
other stakeholders attended 
our supplier sustainability 
workshops in FY13
1,200 
We featured over  
1,200 hotels which had 
sustainability certifications
STRATEGIC REpo RT Ho W WE Do IT
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
Sustainable development
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   28 13/12/2013   17:44 29 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
STRATEGIC REpo RT
 
BUSIn ESS An D FIn An CIAL REv IEW
 
DIRECTo RS’ REPo RT
 
FIn An CIAL STATEMEn TS
 
SHAREHo LDER In Fo RMATIon
h uman rights
TUI Travel PLC acknowledges the Un Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights and has many policies and initiatives in place to 
identify, prevent, mitigate and account for how we are addressing  
key human rights issues. We continue to work with stakeholders to 
understand better and respond to these issues. 
We have a Group employee Code of Conduct which covers a wide 
range of human rights including discrimination and working conditions 
and commits TUI Travel to upholding the principles of the U n Global 
Compact. The Company also has HR policies (see page 34), Health  
& Safety policies (see page 52), an Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy 
(see page 71) and a Whistle-blowing Policy (see page 71) addressing 
key human rights. TUI Travel’s Mainstream businesses are signed up  
to the international Child Protection Code and support several child 
protection projects.
In 2013, TUI Travel launched a new Supplier Code of Conduct for all 
suppliers including hoteliers. The code sets out the minimum standards 
we expect from suppliers and their employees, contractors, agents  
and subsidiaries when working on our behalf. The code covers human 
rights and labour laws, support for local communities, environmental 
impacts, and bribery and corruption. 
We are actively encouraging our hotel suppliers to implement credible 
sustainability certifications. The majority of businesses across the 
Group promote Travelife, which incorporates the principles of the 
Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code. Travelife recognises hotels which 
care for the environment, their employees and the local community. 
We have been working with Travelife to strengthen criteria around 
human rights and these will be launched in 2014. We are also working 
with ABTA and industry peers to address key concerns on human 
rights issues collectively.
To read our policies, visit:  www.tuitravelplc.com
• Jetair and Jetairfly received the sustainable tourism award at the 
Travel Magazine Travel Awards in 2012.
• In november 2012, TUI Travel formed a three-year partnership with 
the German Government Development agency GIZ, The Code and 
other industry partners to focus on child protection in Thailand. 
• Hotelbeds and Blue Travel Partner Services officially partnered  
with UnICEF in the Dominican Republic to protect children from 
exploitation.
• TUI nederland won the ‘o verall winner’ award and the ‘Best for 
child protection’ award at the 2013 World Responsible Tourism 
Awards. This achievement came as a result of their long-term 
commitment to the cause: in implementing colleague training, raising 
awareness amongst travellers and a project in Brazil which helps 
vulnerable adolescents find a job in the tourism industry. Intrepid 
Travel was also ‘Highly Commended’ for its work on child protection 
over the last 20 years.
• We aim to influence the sustainable management of key destinations. 
We have been working with the Travel Foundation in Cyprus, which 
includes the integration of minimum sustainability standards into 
the island’s national hotel quality rating system, and in Cape verde, 
where we have helped to set up a destination council to tackle 
sustainability issues using a multi-stakeholder approach. 
We are conscious of the pressures that tourism can place on local 
populations and resources and therefore work collaboratively with 
communities, governments and a range of other partners to support 
the sustainable management of destinations. Examples include:  
ABTA – The Travel Association, the Born Free Foundation, Deutscher 
Reiseverband, Dutch Association of Travel Agents & Tour o perators, 
GIZ, Global Sustainable Tourism Council, The Tour o perators Initiative, 
and The Travel Foundation.
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Development Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
A DECADE o F Coll ABo RATIo N
TUI Travel has been working with the Travel Foundation, a sustainable tourism charity, since it launched in 2003. 
During this decade of partnership, the Travel Foundation has supported us on our sustainability journey, providing  
a wide range of resources and expertise and collaborating with the business on strategic projects that have helped  
it address the sustainability issues facing the travel and tourism sector. We are the largest industry supporter and 
donor to The Travel Foundation, which over the last 10 years has trained more than 10,000 local people in skills 
to boost tourism, reduce environmental impacts and improve customer experience – and also trained 800 hotels 
to reduce energy, water and waste. We have raised over £4 million since 2003 and we won the Contribution to 
the Community Award at the 2013 TTG Travel Awards for our outstanding work with the Travel Foundation. 
 www.thetravelfoundation.org.uk 
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   29 13/12/2013   17:44 30 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
Go Al BY 2015… 
we will operate Europe’s most 
fuel-efficient airlines and save 
more than 20,000 tonnes of carbon 
from our ground operations 
We will measure this through TUI Travel 
airlines’ average carbon emissions per revenue 
passenger kilometre (CO 2/RPK) and CO 2 saved 
from our major premises, retail outlets, brochure 
paper production, differentiated hotels and 
fleets of vehicles (against FY11 baseline).
Carbon
76%
TUIfly nordic, Thomson 
Airways and TUIfly are  
all ISo 14001 certified –
covering 76% of our aircraft
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
Travel and tourism are responsible for around 5% of global 
CO
2
 emissions (UnEP , 2011). As a leading leisure travel 
company, our challenge is to prepare for a low carbon future 
by further reducing our environmental impacts and helping 
our suppliers do the same. Carbon management is a 
priority for TUI Travel: our airlines’ carbon efficiency is one 
of the Company’s key performance indicators (see page 
38
)
. Our carbon management strategy covers aviation, 
hotels, major premises, retail shops, water transport and 
ground transport emissions. 
o ur business case
It makes sense, both from a business and from an environmental 
perspective, for us to embed carbon management into our key 
business practices. 
Predictable weather, comfort and an attractive local environment are 
critical factors in the quality of the holiday experiences we provide for 
our customers. Climate change could negatively impact on all three of 
these factors, and is therefore a business risk for TUI Travel (see our 
2013 CDP submission for further details).
We have also identified climate change-related regulation as a material 
issue for the Company (see page 51). We monitor and are prepared for 
regulatory proposals on climate change – such as the UK Government’s 
mandatory greenhouse gas reporting requirements (see below).
o ur focus on energy and fuel efficiency allows us to make significant 
cost savings. Across TUI Travel, improved management of energy, 
natural resources and fuel across our operations has saved £16 million 
in FY12*.
We aim to operate Europe’s most fuel-efficient airlines and to continue 
to invest in cutting edge aviation technology. In FY13, TUI Travel 
airlines’ total carbon emissions were 5,101,532 tonnes. Emissions  
from aviation make up approximately 90% of our Company’s carbon 
footprint. Our target is to reduce TUI Travel airlines per passenger 
carbon emissions by 9% by 2015 (baseline 2008). In FY13, we met this 
target, reducing our average per passenger carbon emissions by 9.3% 
against our baseline.
We have developed our position on aviation and climate change in 
partnership with key stakeholders, whose insight and guidance have 
helped us to identify how we can play a leading role in campaigning 
for smarter carbon legislation. 
Read our ‘Campaigning for smarter carbon legislation’  
article here:  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability  
and watch our  ‘Transparency in carbon reporting’ video.
FY13 h ighlights
• CO 2 per revenue passenger kilometre (RPK) across TUI Travel 
airlines of 70.7g** vs 73.0g in FY12 (an improvement of 3.2%) – 
making us one of the most efficient airlines in Europe and beyond. 
• TUIfly was ranked the most climate-efficient charter airline 
worldwide for the second year in a row and most climate-efficient 
airline in the world with more than one million passengers in the 
2013 atmosfair Airline Index. Thomson Airways was ranked second 
most climate-efficient airline for short haul flights.
• TUIfly achieved ISo 14001 certification (an international 
environmental management standard).
• 94% of our aircraft are now fitted with fuel-saving blended  
winglets, reducing fuel burn by up to 5%.
AIRl INE Gh G EmISSIo NS DATA Fo R pERIo D 1 oCT o BER 2012 – 
30 SEpTEmBER 2013 INTENSITY (REl ATIv E) mETRIC*
TUI Travel airlines
gCO
2
/Revenue 
Passenger  
Km
gCO
2
e/Revenue 
Passenger 
Km
ArkeFly 73.5g 74.3g
Corsair 80.5g 81.4g
Jetairfly 73.9g 74.7g
Thomson Airways 69.5g 70.2g
TUIfly 65.5g 66.2g
TUIfly n ordic 63.1g 63.7g
TUI Travel airlines (average) 70.7g 71.4g
* For full details on 
the methodology 
used to calculate  
our intensity  
metrics and  
PwC’s Assurance 
Report please visit 
  
www.tuitravelplc.
com/sustainability/
carbon
STRATEGIC REpo RT Ho W WE Do IT
Sustainable development
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   30 13/12/2013   17:44 2012/13* 2012/13*
TUI Travel airlines 
and aviation 88.4%
Water transport 4.4%
Ground transport 0.5%
Major premises 0.5%
Differentiated hotels 5.3%
Other (indirect emissions 
including business 
travel by air) 0.8%
FY13
31 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
STRATEGIC REpo RT
 
BUSIn ESS An D FIn An CIAL REv IEW
 
DIRECTo RS’ REPo RT
 
FIn An CIAL STATEMEn TS
 
SHAREHo LDER In Fo RMATIon
BREAKDow N o F Tu I TRAv El ’S CARBo N Foo TpRINT
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
• TUI Travel airlines will be the first in Europe to use the new 
innovative Split Scimitar Winglets, reducing fuel burn by an 
additional 2% (modified aircraft will begin flying from early 2014).
• We made a commitment to purchase 60 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, 
with improved fuel-efficiency (2018 delivery onwards).
• Thomson Airways took delivery of their first batch of Boeing 787 
Dreamliner aircraft, which are forecast to emit 20% less CO 2  
per passenger kilometre than comparable aircraft today.
• Ultramar, our largest ground transport company, has installed 
satellite navigation in all vehicles to monitor fuel consumption, 
distances travelled, driver performance and route optimisation.
• We implemented a web-based sustainability data software solution. 
This software enables us to further improve data accuracy, 
provide advanced monitoring and reporting tools and increase 
data collection frequency.
• Sawadee, one of our Dutch tour operators, received the Best Carbon 
Reduction Initiative award in november 2012 at the Worl d Responsible 
Tourism Awards for identifying effective ways of reducing the carbon 
footprint of their trips. 
• Sunsail achieved certification by the British Standards Institute 
(BSI) to the sustainable event management (ISo 20121) standard, 
which recognises organisations that maximise economic, social and 
environmental opportunities at their events.
We have developed collaborative partnerships with many stakeholders 
whose insight and guidance continue to help us develop our position 
on aviation and climate change. Examples include: AlgaePARC in the 
netherlands, Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany 
(AIREG), CDP, Forum for the Future, Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users 
Group (SAFUG) and Sustainable Aviation in the UK.
Greenhouse gas emissions
TUI Travel has reported on all of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 
sources required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and 
Directors’ Reports Regulations 2013). The organisational boundary 
used for its Scope 1 & 2 and, where appropriate, Scope 3 inventory 
of GHG emissions is operational control and it corresponds to the 
Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
For the first time TUI Travel is disclosing carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO 2e) data for both its absolute and relative (e.g. airline) emissions, 
historically we have just disclosed CO 2 emissions. CO 2e refers to CO 2 
and the other five Kyoto GHGs: Methane (CH 4); nitrous oxide (n 2O); 
Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); Perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and Sulphur 
hexafluoride (SF 6).
All material GHG emissions have been included and disclosed following 
a thorough review of entities and the emissions sources across the 
Company’s UK and international operations. The methodology for 
the assessment is based on voluntary and mandatory GHG reporting 
guidance issued by DEFRA (the UK Government’s Environment 
Department). Please see tables below for our absolute and intensity 
CO
2e and CO 2 data for FY13.
*  An approximate figure of Group savings that have been tracked, gross of any upfront investments 
required to achieve those savings in 2012. Part of previously identified cost savings.
**  The Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), have verified the carbon intensity 
metrics displayed in the table on page 30 (PwC also assure our airline EU Emissions Trading 
Scheme data). To read our airline carbon data methodology document and PwC’s Assurance 
Report in full, please visit:
  
www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability/carbon
Glo BAl G h G EmISSIo NS DATA Fo R pERIo D  
1 oCT o BER 2012 – 30 SEpTEmBER 2013 
ABSolu TE FIGu RES
Source
CO
2
 [t] 
(tonnes of  
carbon dioxide)
CO
2
e [t]  
(tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent)
Total scope 1 
emissions 5,936,608 5,999,276
Total scope 2 
emissions 303,759 305,230
Other (scope 3) 
emissions 52,084 52,271
Grand total 6,292,451 6,356,777
Scope 1 covers 
direct emissions
 Scope 2 & 3 
covers indirect 
emissions
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   31 13/12/2013   17:44 32 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
Colleagues
Our colleagues are crucial to delivering our commitments on 
sustainability. We want them to be engaged, knowledgeable 
and enthusiastic about sustainability and we believe that 
this will drive recruitment and loyalty to TUI Travel.
o ur business case
Research shows that a company’s reputation is increasingly important 
to today’s employees, who seek synergy between their own and their 
employer’s values. Our HR colleagues regularly hear from new starters 
that TUI Travel’s sustainability performance influenced their choice of 
TUI Travel as a prospective employer.
One of TUI Travel’s core values is Responsible Leadership, which is 
increasingly embedded into how we measure behaviour and performance. 
Research carried out by the non-profit organisation net Impact in 2012 
shows employees who have the opportunity to make a direct social 
and environmental impact through their job report higher satisfaction 
levels than those who do not, by a factor of 2:1. 
We communicate regularly about the progress we’re making on securing 
a sustainable future for our industry. A key challenge is to make our 
Sustainable Holidays Plan accessible and practical for all colleagues. 
To this end we embed sustainability in recruitment material, our intranets, 
newsletters, inductions, blogs by senior managers, dedicated films and 
e-learning modules, as well as many other communication channels. 
FY13 h ighlights
• Many sustainability awareness-raising events took place. For example, 
TUI Travel colleagues in many destinations supported the Travel 
Foundation’s ’Make Holidays Greener’ month in July. In Greece we 
helped organise a high-profile beach clean-up in Zante, attended  
by the British Ambassador to Greece.
• o ur sustainability commitments were integrated into the Group’s 
Big Picture – an innovative way that we engage colleagues in TUI 
Travel’s strategy and vision (see page 34).
• Colleagues from across the Group were involved in community 
volunteering initiatives, such as TUI India’s colleagues who took 
part in a local school project in Delhi and A&D colleagues in the 
Dominican Republic improving the infrastructure of a school in 
Juanillo.
• TUI nederland launched the TUI Care Foundation to support 
environmental and community projects, giving retail colleagues  
the opportunity to vote for their favourite projects.  
 www.tuicarefoundation.nl
• We are working to engage our retail colleagues on sustainability. 
A retail champions’ network has been set up at TUI UK & Ireland 
– colleagues visited sustainable tourism projects in Turkey this 
summer (and have now set sustainability targets for retail back in 
the UK). TUI nederland has included sustainability as part of retail 
mystery shopping checks.
• We rolled out sustainability colleague focus groups to understand 
better our colleagues’ views on these issues and inform our 
communications strategy.
• PEAK conducted a sustainability survey, asking colleagues to rank 
what they thought was a priority for their businesses and submit 
new ideas – over 500 colleagues took part.
73
TUI UK & Ireland colleagues 
have spent 1-2 weeks 
volunteering overseas  
using their skills to support 
sustainable tourism projects
Go Al BY 2015…
o ur colleagues will rate  
Tu I Travel as a leader in 
sustainability
We will measure this through the Your  
voice global employee opinion survey 
results – aiming to meet High Performing 
Company scores for responsibility towards 
the environment and community for all 
colleagues and senior leaders.
FAmIl Y h ol IDAY ASSo CIATIo N
We are the largest corporate sponsor of the 
Family Holiday Association (FHA), a charity 
that provides simple breaks to disadvantaged 
children and their families in the UK. 
Since 2009 we have raised more than  
£1.9 million. Peter Long, Chief Executive  
of TUI Travel, was appointed President 
of the FHA on 1 October 2013.
 www.fhaonline.org.uk
STRATEGIC REpo RT Ho W WE Do IT
Sustainable development
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   32 13/12/2013   17:44 33 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
STRATEGIC REpo RT
 
BUSIn ESS An D FIn An CIAL REv IEW
 
DIRECTo RS’ REPo RT
 
FIn An CIAL STATEMEn TS
 
SHAREHo LDER In Fo RMATIon
Go Al BY 2015…
Customers will regard Tu I  
Travel as a leader in delivering 
more sustainable holidays
We will measure this by our performance  
in consumer research in our key source 
markets.
Customers
Through the purchases they make and the actions they 
take on holiday, our customers play a vital part in achieving 
TUI Travel’s Sustainable Holidays Plan. That’s why we are 
working to influence choice and develop new products 
to encourage customers to choose ‘greener and fairer’ 
holidays and act responsibly when they are on holiday.
o ur business case
There is a growing awareness among our customers about sustainability, 
such as the impact of carbon emissions from flying and the need to 
ensure that local people get a fair deal from tourism. Although these 
issues are not the major deciding factor for most people when they 
choose a holiday, it is in the interest of our destinations and the 
environment that it becomes a strong influencing factor. In several of 
our key source markets we have found a positive correlation between 
more sustainable holidays and customer satisfaction. 
We are encouraging holidaymakers to engage in sustainable tourism 
through our kids’ club activities, school education initiatives, customer 
donation schemes and sustainable tourism campaigns. 
FY13 h ighlights
• At the end of 2012 we conducted international sustainability 
consumer research with 6,000 holidaymakers in six source markets 
and the findings were very similar to our research in 2010. We found 
that:
> 1 in 2 consumers would be willing to book a more sustainable 
holiday if available
> 2 in 3 consumers want their holiday company to be clear  
about what they do to make their holidays more sustainable
> 2 in 3 consumers would change their behaviour on holiday  
to help the environment
> We also found that Modern Mainstream consumers had a  
greater engagement with sustainability compared to traditional 
Mainstream consumers.
• We have developed an online platform called Spreading smiles  
to bring our sustainability initiatives to life for customers and 
colleagues.  www.spreadingsmiles.com
• Fritidsresor, our brand in Sweden, was ranked most sustainable 
travel company in Sweden in the 2013 Sustainable Brand Index. 
• Across the Group our businesses are working to reduce brochures 
and to use digital platforms throughout the customer journey. For 
example, Thomson launched an award-winning MyThomson app, 
allowing users to look up and book excursions on their smart 
phones, as well as find out about local events in their resort. TUI UK 
& Ireland reduced the number of brochure pages printed by 14% 
year-on-year.
• TUI UK & Ireland won a Silver Award in the Interactive Category  
of the IvCA Clarion Awards 2013 for their eco-traveller programme. 
The awards recognise best practice in communicating the 
importance of sustainability. 
For further details visit our latest Sustainable Holidays Report  www.tuitravelplc.com/sustainability
380,000 
number of UK school 
children who participated  
in the eco-traveller 
programme in FY13
l o CAl Foo D Tou RS pRov E popul AR
Intrepid Travel launched a new range of 
food trips in 2013, focusing on authentic, 
local food experiences and offering 
travellers a well-priced alternative to 
traditional, high-end gourmet food tours. 
The trips score an average of 4.79 out of 5 
from passenger feedback and the range 
has been expanded to 19 trips in 2014.
4_SustainableXDevelopment_v46 copy.indd   33 13/12/2013   17:44  
jacky says “thank you…”
1 2 3 4
34 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
How we do it: Our people
st Rat EGIc REPo Rt
o ur people
Our team of 55,000 people working across the world in approximately 
180 countries is what makes TUI Travel what it is today and gives us a 
real advantage. With our shared vision of making travel experiences 
special and our values of customer driven, playing to win, responsible 
leadership and value driven, we are all working towards the same 
strategy and strong growth plans for the future success of our 
business.
Engaging and involving our colleagues
With many brands and businesses across the world making up TUI 
Travel, there are many more things that make us the same and bind us 
together than those things that could be regarded as differences. The 
one shared vision and common values that we are all working towards 
really strengthen our business directly and impacts on our 
performance. 
At the start of the last financial year, we introduced a new and simple 
way to convey the business strategy and vision for the future through 
the Big Picture. The Group Management Board worked together with 
colleagues from across the world to develop the visual, ensuring it 
represents the whole Group, its core essence and where the business 
is heading, recognising the financial and economic factors that affect 
our performance.
Designed with lots of detail to stimulate discussion, the purpose of the 
Big Picture is for it to be used as a tool to have conversations with our 
people to make sure that they understand our plans for the future,  
and the part that they can play. By using a picture we make sure that 
our story is clear, consistent and memorable. It helps to ensure that 
our strategy and vision is understood and contributes to making our 
people feel engaged and motivated. 
The picture has been actively rolled out across our Group in all Sectors 
with the exception of the Specialist & Activity Sector where it will be 
rolled out following completion of the Sector’s restructuring.
1. PEt ER Lon G
2. WILLIam Wa GGott
3. DR Vo Lk ER Böttch ER
4. j ohan Lun DGREn
For Executive biographies go to page 66
5. DaVID Bu RLIn G managing Director,  
tu I uk & Ireland
David was appointed Managing Director for TUI UK &  
Ireland (TUI UK) in October 2011. David previously held  
the position of Commercial Director for TUI UK following  
the merger of the Tourism Division of TUI AG and First 
Choice in September 2007. David was key to the successful 
integration of the businesses, ensuring that both brands  
had clear strategy for growth. David first joined Thomson 
Holidays in 1990 and is now a member of the Mainstream 
Sector Board. In April 2012 he was appointed to the  
Group Management Board. 
6. mIttu sRID ha Ra Chief Information Officer
Mittu’s main focus is transforming TUI Travel PLC into a 
digital online business that is able to serve its customers 
‘Anywhere, Anytime, Any Way’. Mittu has led global 
technology teams and formulated and delivered several 
multi-channel technology platforms and industry-leading 
digital products. Prior to this, Mittu has held senior IT roles  
at global organisations, starting his career at American 
Airlines Decision Technologies and moving on to companies 
including Sabre Holdings, the world’s leading provider of IT 
solutions/decision support systems to the global travel and 
transportation sector, Ladbrokes PLC and AVIS Europe PLC. 
Mittu has featured in the top 50 of the TechRepublic CIO50 
list for several years.
c ontributing to our business performance are 
55,000 of our people, each bringing their unique 
talent, experience and knowledge to tu I t ravel. 
o nly with invaluable input from such a wide 
cross-section of passionate, inspiring people, 
can we continue to innovate and deliver holidays 
and travel services to satisfy ever changing 
customer requirements.
I would like to thank all of our people for their 
hard work and commitment this year and for 
making these results possible during what are 
challenging times.
t hank you.
jacky s Immon Ds Group h R Director
Jacky Simmonds joined First Choice in 2000 from Hearst 
Magazines UK (The National Magazine Company) where she 
led the HR function for six years. She was appointed as Group 
HR Director in 2010 having previously held a number of senior 
positions across the Group. Jacky was appointed HR Director 
for TUI UK & Ireland in 2007 and, following the Merger, was 
central to the integration of the First Choice and Thomson 
businesses. Since her appointment in 2010, there is a more 
aligned approach to HR across the Group which includes the 
creation of talent programmes, global functions for resourcing 
and the development of an integrated HR strategy. Jacky has 
experience of leading large-scale transformation programmes 
on both a local and global level.
5_People_v30 copy.indd   34 13/12/2013   17:46 5 6 7 8 9
35 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
s t Rat EGIc REP o Rt
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
To measure whether we are meeting our people goals and ensuring  
that we are continually driving improvement, our first TUI Travel 
Group-wide global opinion survey took place in September 2012 across 
all areas of the Group. Work is well underway to address the survey 
feedback and a number of changes have already been made. As well  
as local plans being in place across the Group, themes to come out of 
the survey included Opportunity, Pride and Trust. The feedback around 
Opportunity focused on increasing the visibility of career opportunities 
and a new internal careers portal was launched in July bringing together 
TUI Travel’s global vacancies for the first time (see Global Mobility and 
Collaboration). This also supports the feedback around Pride and our 
people wanting to feel part of one global business as we build and 
strengthen our TUI Travel identity as an employer. Raised as part of  
the Trust theme was leadership effectiveness and to help build trust 
through involvement and more focused employee communication, the 
TUI Travel Big Picture was introduced. These areas will be measured 
again in the next survey when we will also be able to benchmark our 
results and measure how these may have changed. Over the long-term, 
we strive to reach engagement levels that reflect high performance 
and in 2012 we reached 64%.
We also recognise that our people are incredibly knowledgeable about 
their business areas and that they have some great insight and ideas to 
offer. There are a number of active employee representative forums in 
place across the Group to ensure two-way feedback and involvement 
raising matters of importance to our people and our business. In addition, 
the Specialist & Activity Sector’s Specialist Holidays Group has  
involved everyone working in that area to drive their Darwin business 
transformation project, giving them the opportunity to shape the  
way we work throughout the entire customer journey. Operating in 
workstreams, the project has been driven entirely by ideas generated 
from employees at all levels, empowering the team and giving them  
a vehicle to make a difference to the way we work.
Digitally enabling our people
With Online Driven being a key part of our strategy, we are committed 
to initiating and improving the digital literacy of our people across the 
world. Our Digital Workplace vision is to create a single environment 
that is available to our Group-wide colleagues anytime, anywhere,  
any way, which provides instant access to communications, colleague 
data, social interaction and working practices. Creating a Digital 
Workplace enables a transformation in our business culture, improving 
collaboration and efficiency in our working practices and increasing  
the awareness of expertise and knowledge sharing. This will empower 
our colleagues to become brand ambassadors enabling them to fully 
engage with our customers.
We’ve invested in a number of online tools to help support our people 
to build on their knowledge and help with this shift in mind-set. All of our 
colleagues now have access to E-consultancy, a global online resource 
providing digital training and materials.
Our global Finance Academy continues to bring our Group-wide 
finance community together to share best practice and provide access 
to the latest training and guidance, raising their skills and capability. 
The multi-lingual, secure, online Learning Management portal now has 
over 1,500 members across 42 countries with membership continuing 
to grow. Over 1,900 courses have been completed since the launch of 
the Finance Academy in April 2013. Sponsored by Will Waggott, CFO, 
the Academy has already enabled us to create and deliver the ongoing 
COSO internal control training, deliver targeted learning on Cash 
Management to senior finance staff, and provide best practice training 
and guidance on Financial Reporting through internal systems.
Within our Specialist & Activity Sector, the Specialist Holidays Group 
has introduced a Digital Academy boosting the digital talent pipeline, 
providing all employees across the business with the opportunity to 
apply for a six-month secondment to one of the digital teams. Successful 
candidates are appointed a mentor for the duration of the placement 
and are provided with both external and on-the-job support. Six 
placements have already taken place including employees from 
Commercial, Sales and Publishing.
7. an DREW j ohn Group Director – 
s ecretariat, h ealth & s afety and Risk
Andrew John is a Solicitor who practised with the City 
law firm of Coward Chance prior to taking up a career  
in industry. He held the post of Director, Legal Affairs  
at Unisys Limited followed by various senior legal and 
commercial positions at Vickers PLC, which culminated  
in his appointment to the Vickers Board in 1994 as 
Commercial Director and Company Secretary. In that  
role he led several high profile acquisitions and disposals. 
Prior to his current role, Andrew was Group Legal 
Director & Company Secretary of First Choice, and 
subsequently TUI Travel.
8. c h RIst Ian cLE mEns managing Director, 
tu I Germany
Christian Clemens joined the Group Management Board 
in July 2012. Prior to this, he was CEO of TUI Nordic from 
2009 to 2012, joining the Company as General Manager 
Sweden in 2004 and then becoming responsible for 
Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden as COO of TUI 
Nordic in 2007. Between 1989 and 2004 Christian held  
a number of senior roles with Thomas Cook Northern 
Europe. Christian graduated as an engineer in Industrial 
Economy.
9. j oan V ILà managing Director,  
accommodation & Destinations
After developing his professional career in the 
Destination Services Division of the Barceló Travel 
Group, Joan Vilà was appointed Managing Director of  
the Division in 1999, which was integrated into First 
Choice Holidays PLC (First Choice) in 2000. In November 
2002, he became a member of First Choice’s Group 
Management Board. Joan is currently the Managing 
Director of the Accommodation & Destinations Sector  
of TUI Travel PLC and is also on the Group Management 
Board. He has an MBA from IESE, a degree in Economics 
from the University of Barcelona and has completed 
international business school programmes with  
Columbia Business School and IMD.
5_People_v30 copy.indd   35 13/12/2013   17:46 36 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
How we do it: Our people
continued
Investing in our leaders
At TUI Travel, we know that to deliver our strategy and ensure our 
future growth, we need talent, strong leadership and development 
opportunities for all. 
Leadership at TUI Travel is about engaging and empowering people 
whilst delivering results and managing performance. To ensure this, 
our Global High Performance Leadership programme focuses on 
the development of our high-potential senior leaders, equipping  
them to support our commercial business growth and strategy. 
Sponsored by the Deputy Chief Executive and MD of Mainstream, 
Johan Lundgren, the programme aims to enhance strategic thinking 
and leadership skills, creating the foundation for more active 
collaboration across the Group. Held at the prestigious IMD business 
school in Switzerland, around 20 leaders participate each year and  
are set real high strategic priority business challenges to create 
tangible business improvement plans. 
Reinforcing this, our suite of Global High Potential Learning & 
Development programmes has been designed for our talent in the early 
stages of their careers or who have been identified as successors to 
commercial senior leadership roles in the future. Sponsored by Joan Vilà, 
MD Accommodation & Destinations Sector, about 80 people take part 
in Perspectives each year, widening their understanding of the Group 
strategy, our expectations of future leaders and helping to drive the 
mobility of talent across the Group, supporting our global leadership 
culture. Our Horizons programme is also supported by members of the 
GMB who attend sessions and spend time with the circa 40 delegates 
that take part each year.
Two new core leadership programmes have been created to support 
managers’ development and are being piloted through some markets 
with a view to launching globally across the Group during 2014. 
Leadership Essentials, a two-day workshop, focuses predominantly  
on self and people leadership and is designed for those early in their 
leadership journey to embed the behaviour which encourages this  
and brings out the best in people. Leadership Evolution is a three-day 
leadership workshop focused on self, people and business leadership 
designed for more experienced managers, allowing them to explore the 
evolution of themselves as a leader and the organisation in the face  
of a rapidly-changing environment. 
In addition to these development initiatives, we also run internal  
and external mentoring and coaching programmes.
Developing our talent pipeline
To build our succession of leadership talent, our International  
Graduate Leadership Programme continues to attract, develop  
and retain high-quality graduates to become our future senior 
Commercial Leaders. 
With two intakes per year, another five graduates joined our team in 
September 2013 from the UK, Germany, Romania and Spain. To reflect 
the increasing globalisation of our business, we focus on attracting 
graduates with an international mind-set and a professional approach 
suitable for our fast-paced, ever changing environment. There is a 
mentoring programme in place providing support throughout the 
18-month programme and senior leaders are committed to meeting 
and developing the graduates through specific assignments in their 
businesses. Speaking a minimum of two languages including English, 
our graduates are provided with significant international commercial 
business exposure across the Group with the aim for them to become 
emerging leaders within 3-4 years.
Within TUI UK & Ireland, a placement scheme for university students 
takes place each year providing 8-10 people on a ‘sandwich’ degree 
course a placement in Trading, Product, Purchasing, Cruise and 
e-commerce. Having run successfully for five years, the scheme has 
won, and been shortlisted for, a number of awards including “Best 
Overall Placement Scheme” from National Council for Work Experience 
(2010) and regularly features in the Top 10 Placement schemes  
by RateMyPlacement.co.uk in which it is currently seventh in the 
medium-sized scheme category. 48 students have completed this 
scheme since it was introduced, with an additional eight joining for  
the 2013/14 year. 13 students who have completed the scheme have 
returned to the business on completion of their degree, with eight 
currently working in the business.
This business also has the leading employer apprenticeship 
programme in the UK & Ireland travel sector. Working in partnership 
with the Skills Funding Agency and strategic partner City & Guilds, a 
world leading vocational education organisation, over 400 qualifications 
have been achieved by our retail team this year. In December, after just 
one year with Thomson, Stacie Guiel, who joined our Brighton shop in 
2011, was awarded a City & Guilds Medal for Excellence recognising her 
outstanding performance in travel services.
In addition, TUI UK & Ireland has succession planning programmes in 
retail and overseas at every level linked to recognised qualifications.
TUI Deutschland Leisure Travel has one of the largest training 
programmes in the German travel industry, with their apprenticeship 
scheme training approximately 250 people over three years. Securing 
the future of the business, the programme aims to attract the best 
candidates, setting high standards and qualifying criteria. In December 
2012, Franziska Binner from Peine, finished her apprenticeship as the 
best merchant in tourism in Lower Saxony and was honoured by the 
Federal Minister for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth, 
Dr Kristina Schröder. A blog (www.tui-azubiblog.de) was introduced  
at the end of 2012 where apprentices write about their experiences, 
providing an authentic report helping to promote the programme  
to prospective candidates.
tcs & s ta Rqu Est: to P 100 BEst PLac Es  
to Wo Rk
 TCS & Starquest Expeditions, our private jet expedition company, 
has been named as one of the Top 100 Best Places to Work in 
Washington State by Seattle Business Magazine. The award 
recognises Washington companies that set the standard for 
leadership, strong benefits, ideal work environment, innovative 
training, and happiest employees, among other criteria. 
“Our employees are the heart of our organisation and the 
biggest reason for our success over the years,” commented 
Shelley Cline, Managing Director of TCS & Starquest 
Expeditions. “It is because of their dedication, passion,  
and expertise that we are able to deliver the best private  
jet and expedition travel experience in the industry.”
th E BIG PIctu RE
st Rat EGIc REPo Rt
5_People_v30 copy.indd   36 13/12/2013   17:46 37 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
s t Rat EGIc REP o Rt
 
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Corsair has introduced a new apprenticeship scheme welcoming more 
than 30 trainees during 2013, demonstrating Corsair’s commitment  
to develop and support young people into the workplace. Corsair has 
also partnered with two schools within the airline industry, the “Ecole 
Nationale de l’Aviation Civile” (ENAC) and AFMAE. ENAC, the only 
aviation focused university in France, offers training and continued 
education for pilots and engineers and AFMAE focuses on supporting 
other professions including cabin crew and technicians. These 
partnerships strengthen Corsair’s offering for employees while 
ensuring quality in our professional training. 
The Accommodation & Destinations Sector’s Laterooms Group has 
started to work with Manchester Metropolitan University to attract 
graduate placements on to their Agency Life Student Project. Two 
students joined the scheme in October 2013 as part of the Marketing 
division, spending one day a week with LateRooms.com as part of their 
second year degree course. Enabling LateRooms.com to provide real 
experience for students, the programme also allows the business to 
develop, mentor and find future talent while raising awareness for 
the brand.
Global mobility and collaboration
To help improve global mobility, a new global resourcing function is being 
created for the financial year 2013/14 focusing on senior leadership and 
enabling our people to move more easily around the Group and the 
world. Driving the strategy for increasing the number of international 
moves across the business reinforces our commitment to internal 
promotions and moves. 
As part of this and in response to the feedback in our global employee 
opinion survey Your Voice (see Engaging and Involving our Colleagues), 
a new internal careers portal was launched in July bringing together 
TUI Travel’s global vacancies for the first time, increasing the visibility 
of career opportunities. Launched in all areas of the Group, around 50 
management vacancies are advertised on a weekly basis covering all 
Sectors, with roles of all levels being introduced at the end of 2013.
These initiatives will enable us to monitor better mobility between 
businesses as well as across Sectors, continuing to build on and 
improve opportunities for career development while staying with 
TUI Travel.
We are also driving a more global mind-set by encouraging colleagues 
from across the Group based all over the world to work more closely 
together. Over the past 12 months the Mainstream Sector has been 
focusing on leveraging its scale by sharing best practice and working more 
collaboratively with each other. One example of this new way of working 
is the creation of a new Purchasing department, set up to buy on 
behalf of the whole of Mainstream rather than just for each individual 
Source Market. This has encouraged networking opportunities for our 
people and collaboration across all Source Markets as well as offering 
more value to the customer (see pages 14 to 25).
a team of individuals – strength in diversity
It is not only our customers that we recognise are all individuals. Our 
55,000 strong workforce based all over the world represents a wide 
range of different backgrounds and cultures, enabling us to gain a real 
advantage and truly understand our customers and their ever changing 
needs. Our diversity is at the heart of our success and is one of our 
major strengths, making each brand so successful and our Company 
what it is. 
We are clear that we don’t tolerate discrimination under any 
circumstances and our ethos is that opportunities should be equally 
available to everyone. We have principles and guidelines in place to 
ensure this is maintained at every level, throughout our Company.
Illustrating this diverse workforce, 24% of our senior leaders (243) 
based across 24 countries are female. Across our total workforce,  
63% of all employees and 38% of managers are female. 
Rewarding our colleagues and supporting 
their wellbeing
It is the dedication of our people that makes the difference when it 
comes to making travel experiences special and we strive to make 
our people feel valued.
Recognising the importance of good retirement planning, we continue 
to offer pension arrangements across the Group reflective of local 
legislative requirements, as well as the economic position of our 
business and market practice. This year there have been significant 
changes in the UK with the introduction of new pension auto-
enrolment legislation. Since June 2013, eligible employees are now 
automatically enrolled into our Company pension scheme with a set 
level of Company and employee contributions. Over 4,700 people have 
been successfully enrolled into the Company pension scheme.
We continue to encourage share ownership in the Company amongst 
colleagues. In the UK we are able to offer a share incentive plan that 
allows colleagues to purchase TUI Travel PLC shares in a tax efficient way. 
The health and wellbeing of our colleagues is paramount and an example 
of how this is supported in TUI UK & Ireland is their pilot programme, 
Your Life – a healthier, happier you, which aims to increase employee 
engagement. The programme has resulted in a reduction in the average 
duration of long-term sickness absence and days lost through sickness. 
TUI Leisure Travel in Germany has also developed a new health 
management scheme as a part of a pilot project in our travel agencies 
focused on preserving the health of employees.
h uman rights
Please see the Sustainable Development section, page 29. 
 t omo RRo W’s t RaVEL LEaDER:  
LEE n Icho Lson
 Lee Nicholson, who joined Thomson Airways 
straight from university in 2006, is one of the 2013 
winners of TTG’s 30 under 30 in their Tomorrow’s 
Travel Leaders competition. Working his way up 
from cabin crew to his current role as ground 
training instructor where he is credited with 
delivering innovative training packages, Lee said: 
“It will be interesting to meet people outside 
aviation. I’m quite into digital and social media  
and Thomson’s really aware of that. I’ve looked at 
other people from last year’s group and they’re 
very much online.”
PaRtn ERsh IP WIth a4E
Partnering with A4e, a Government Work provider, 
we are working to support young people in the UK 
& Ireland into work. 50 people aged between 16-18 
have been recruited into our JCA education brand 
who have since transferred into other business 
areas for their second season.
5_People_v30 copy.indd   37 13/12/2013   17:46 strategy
strateg IC 
Dr IVers
g rowth  
roa Dmap target
Del IVer Ing 
 ma Instream growth
o rgan IC s peCIal Ist 
& aC t IVIty growth
Content
Bran Ds &  
DIstr IBut Ion
t eChnology g rowth  
& sC ale
people
Key to s trateg IC Dr IVers
See more about our strategic drivers on page 16
38 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
strateg IC report
How we measure it: Key performance indicators (KPIs)
u nIque h ol IDays onl y a VaIla Ble from tu I t ra Vel
Our unique holidays form the backbone of our Mainstream businesses 
and are exclusive to us. Unique holidays provide value added services and 
features which command a margin premium over commodity products. 
This in turn leads to higher customer loyalty and an increase in repeat 
bookings. Unique holidays also book earlier enabling us to manage our 
capacity and yield more effectively and it is very difficult for our 
competitors to replicate these concepts.
DIstr IBute D DIre Ctl y to the Customer – growth from onl Ine
Our direct distribution channels are central to the Group’s strategy. By 
increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower distribution 
costs, reduce the reliance on third party distributors and can build on our 
customer relationships. As an online-driven business, we have a focus on 
the online customer experience. During the year, we continued to see the 
benefits of the investments we have been making in our online platforms. 
We are moving to one core online platform across Mainstream. 
l eVerag Ing our s Cale
As Europe’s largest tour operator we leverage our scale across all source 
markets to consolidate our market-leading position and grow the number 
of customers travelling with us. Our One Mainstream structure is in place 
and yielding tangible benefits.
We have completed our strategic review of the Specialist & Activity 
businesses and have refocused our plans for profitable growth and 
improved operational efficiency. We have a strong portfolio of 
established and popular brands with leadership positions in market 
segments which are continuing to grow. 
we are targeting a unique 
holiday mix of 76%, as  
a proportion of total 
mainstream s ector holidays 
by 2017, and continuous 
improvement in customer 
satisfaction.
we are targeting a direct 
distribution mix of 81% and 
an online distribution mix  
of 50% in our mainstream 
s ector by 2017.
w ithin mainstream, we  
target overheads of less than 
5% in each source market. 
Our KPIs enable TUI Travel’s stakeholders to monitor performance against our 
growth levers (see more on page 57 ) and growth roadmap.
79% 
Customer satisfaction score 
in UK, Nordics and Germany 
combined during 2013
69% 
of our Mainstream holidays 
were unique in 2013
we are targeting underlying 
operating profit growth of 
between 8% to 10% per 
annum between 2012 and 
2017*, including delivery of 
£9m business improvement 
savings.
6_KPIs_v39 copy.indd   38 13/12/2013   17:48 u nique holidays mix as a proportion of total 
mainstream s ector package holidays
2013: [xx%] | 2012: 65% | 2011: 62%
Customer satisfaction for [key mainstream  
source markets rated out of a total of 100%]
2013: [xx%] | 2012: [xx%] | 2011: [xx%]
performan Ce Key performan Ce In DICators
*at constant currency rates
39 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
s trateg IC report
 
BUSINESS AND f INANCIAl r Ev IEW
 
DIr ECTOr S’ r EPOr T
 
fINANCIA l STATEMENTS
 
SHAr EHOl DEr INf Or MATION
In the year, we increased the unique holidays mix by four percentage points across the 
Mainstream Sector as a whole to 69%. Within this, the UK and Germany improved by four 
percentage points to 83% and 51% respectively, and the Nordic region improved by one 
percentage point to 93%.
Customer satisfaction for the UK, Nordic region and Germany combined increased by  
two percentage points to 79%, driven by improved scores in all three source markets.
To measure our progress, we have two distribution KPIs: (i) direct distribution mix;  
and (ii) online distribution mix.
Direct distribution mix increased to 66%, with improvements in all source markets.  
The improvement in direct distribution was driven by the online channel which has 
increased by two percentage points in 2013 to 35%. Within this, the UK improved by  
three percentage points to 47%, the Nordic region improved by two percentage points  
to 68% and Germany improved by four percentage points to 8%.
The Mainstream overhead percentage of revenue improved from 5.2% to 4.6% in 2013. 
2013 was a year of restructuring and refocusing for the Specialist & Activity Sector and,  
as anticipated, underlying operating profit has not grown during the year. Now that the 
Sector restructure is complete, we look forward to delivering against our growth roadmap 
in the next four years. As part of this, we have already delivered £3m of business 
improvement savings during 2013.
u nique holidays mix as a proportion of  
total mainstream s ector package holidays
2013: 69% | 2012: 65% | 2011: 62%
Customer satisfaction for key mainstream  
source markets
2013: 79% | 2012: 77% | 2011: 76%
Direct distribution mix, as a proportion of  
total mainstream s ector package holidays
2013: 66% | 2012: 65% | 2011: 63%
o nline distribution mix, as a proportion  
of total mainstream s ector package holidays
2013: 35% | 2012: 33% | 2011: 30%
mainstream overhead as a % of revenue
2013: 4.6% | 2012: 5.2% | 2011: 5.4%
Underlying operating profit
2013: £41m
2012: £48m
35% 
of our Mainstream  
holidays during 2013  
were purchased online
66% 
of our Mainstream  
holidays during 2013 were 
distributed directly by  
us to the customer
6_KPIs_v39 copy.indd   39 13/12/2013   17:48 strategy
strateg IC 
Dr IVers
g rowth  
roa Dmap target
f o Cus on free Cash flow 
generat Ion, ro IC an D 
operat Ional eff ICIen Cy
pIoneer Ing 
susta Ina BIl Ity 
Change In our 
se Ctor
l eVerag Ing our glo Bal 
lea Dersh Ip pos It Ion 
In aCCommo Dat Ion 
w holesaler
In Vest Ing In 
aCCommo Dat Ion ota
Content
Bran Ds &  
DIstr IBut Ion
t eChnology g rowth  
& sC ale
people
Key to s trateg IC Dr IVers
See more about our strategic drivers on page 16
40 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
How we measure it: Key performance indicators (KPIs)
continued
One of our key strategic objectives is to continue to improve the Group’s 
profitability and free cash flow and therefore deliver superior returns on 
investment. This improvement will allow us to invest further in the future 
of our business which will benefit our customers, colleagues and 
shareholders.
We are experiencing greater stakeholder interest in sustainability  
and believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect  
our product into the future and also support product differentiation,  
brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
we are targeting our airlines 
to reduce per passenger 
carbon emissions by 9% 
by 2015 (against a baseline 
of 2008). s ee s ustainable 
Development section.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business (Hotelbeds and Bedsonline) is 
a market leader operating in the B2B segment with a global distribution 
presence. We have a clear strategy of consolidating our market-leading 
position even further by continuing to grow our existing destinations 
whilst accelerating our expansion into new markets with particular focus 
on Asia, l atin America and Africa.
In Accommodation OTA (online travel agent) our focus is to build on our 
strong brand positioning of l ater ooms.com in the UK and expand in the 
emerging markets through Asiar ooms.com across Asia and in Brazil with 
MalaPronta, Brazil’s fourth largest accommodation-only OTA.
we are targeting an 
underlying operating profit 
growth for accommodation 
w holesaler of between 15% 
to 20% per annum between 
2012 and 2017*.
we are targeting growth 
in traffic and roomnights 
in our existing ota brands 
l ater ooms, a siar ooms 
and malapronta.
£46m 
business improvement 
savings delivered during 2013
28% 
growth in Accommodation 
Wholesaler underlying 
operating profit in 2013
we target continuous 
improvement in g roup  
ro IC and cash conversion  
of at least 70% of profit 
before tax. we are  
targeting delivery of the 
remaining £19m of business 
improvement opportunities 
over the next two years.
strateg IC report
6_KPIs_v39 copy.indd   40 13/12/2013   17:48 performan Ce Key performan Ce In DICators
*at constant currency rates
41 TUI Travel P l C Annu Al Re po Rt & Acc ounts 2013
tt 14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13/12/2013 | Artwork
 
s trateg IC report
 
BUSINESS AND f INANCIAl r Ev IEW
 
DIr ECTOr S’ r EPOr T
 
fINANCIA l STATEMENTS
 
SHAr EHOl DEr INf Or MATION
r OIC has improved again this year by 2.6 percentage points to 14.8%, driven by the 
significant increase in underlying net operating profit after tax.
We generated a cash conversion rate of 90% in 2013 as a result of a strong operating  
cash flow performance. We continue to target a cash conversion rate of at least 70%  
going forward. 
We delivered £46m of operational efficiency savings through the business improvement 
programme in the last 12 months, with a further £19m to be delivered in the next two 
years.
We made significant improvements in 2013. Our airlines’ per passenger carbon emissions 
reduced by 3.2% year on year, from 73.0g CO
2/r PK in 2012 to 70.7g CO 2/r PK in 2013, a 
9.3% reduction against our 2008 baseline year. This was achieved through investment in 
new more fuel-efficient aircraft, operational efficiencies, fuel conservation activities and 
capacity amends. 
We had a strong performance in Accommodation Wholesaler in 2013, with 28% growth  
in underlying operating profit at constant currency (2012) rates. TTV grew by 23% from 
£1.351bn to £1.655bn in 2013, with 16% growth in roomnights. Top-line growth was driven 
primarily by expansion in Asia and l atin America.
We continued to invest in the Asian and Brazilian markets in Accommodation OTA during 
2013. Traffic grew by 7% in the year. Whilst roomnights grew by 8% in AsiaRooms, total 
roomnights fell by 6%, driven by l ater ooms, which implemented a new online platform 
during the year.
90% 
cash conversion during  
2013, significantly above  
our target of 70%
14.8% 
r OIC improved by 
2.6 percentage points 
during 2013 to 14.8%
Growth in underlying operating profit
2013: +28%
g rowth in roomnights
2013: +16%
Growth in traffic
2013: +7%
Decrease in roomnights
2013: -6% 
ro IC
2013: 14.8% | 2012: 12.2% | 2011: 11.3%
Cash conversion
1
2013: 90% | 2012: 78% | 2011: 120%
Business improvement programme
2013: £46m
1
  Free cash flow excludes net aircraft pre-delivery  
payments and movements in restricted cash
Carbon efficiency, measured through  
tu I t ravel airlines’ average carbon emissions 
per revenue passenger kilometre (g Co
2
/rp K)
2013: 70.7g Co 2/rp K
2012: 73.0g CO 2/r PK
2011: 75.9g CO 2/r PK
6_KPIs_v39 copy.indd   41 13/12/2013   17:48
