 Strategic overview
www.tuitravelplc.com www.tuitravelplc.com
12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and ﬁnancial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
*  World Travel and Tourism Council’s 
Economic Impact Report 2011.
**  United Nations World Tourism 
Organisation (UNWTO), United Nations 
Environment Programme (UNEP) and 
World Meteorological Organisation 
(WMO) October 2007 Climate Change 
and Tourism: Responding to Global 
Challenges.
Outlook, future trends and factors
While the global recession and uncertain economic 
environment have had an effect on consumer travel 
spending habits, demand for leisure travel remains 
strong. The mainstream holiday market, our 
traditional stronghold, has seen a resurgence  
in a tough economic environment. We have 
continued to modify our product offering in  
line with consumer preferences to include more 
differentiated and exclusive products as well as 
ﬂexibility of duration. Our all inclusive holidays  
have proved particularly popular as consumers 
seek more ﬁnancial certainty of their total holiday 
spend. In the UK, we announced that from Summer 
2012, the First Choice brand in the UK would be 
completely all inclusive – a reﬂection of growing 
consumer demand. 
Independent travel, which has experienced 
consistently strong growth over the years, remains 
a key focus area for TUI Travel. As the demand for 
independent travel continues to increase, we seek 
to expand our already signiﬁcant positions within 
this segment of the market.
In 2011, an increasing number of consumers  
turned to online channels to research and book 
their holiday. We expect this trend to continue  
into 2012 and beyond where our mainstream 
businesses expect to see an even greater share  
of online bookings. We, therefore, remain focused 
on improving our online presence, increasing our 
participation in social media and moving towards  
an online-driven Company culture. 
We believe the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and 
China) economies, with high growth forecasts,  
will be the key driver of long term travel growth. 
TUI Travel already has a presence in Russia and 
Ukraine which we plan to increase from the existing 
platform and we continue to determine our 
participation strategy in Brazil, India and China.
We remain cautious about 2012, given the 
continued economic uncertainty in Europe, a slow 
recovery of demand to North African destinations 
and increased volatility in fuel prices and currency 
exchange rates. There is, however, every reason  
to believe that the demand for leisure travel will 
continue to experience robust growth in the long 
term. TUI Travel has already proved resilient in  
a challenging market environment and, with a 
heritage in leisure travel and a diverse range of 
experiences on offer, the Company is well placed.
The political climate
Travel and tourism are heavily regulated industries. 
As a global organisation, TUI Travel has a public 
affairs team that works with governments and 
regulators across key source markets to address 
issues affecting our industry and customers.
The issue of air passenger rights has assumed 
particular importance, the European institutions 
having focused heavily on this issue during the year. 
Our public affairs team has engaged regularly with 
politicians and ofﬁcials both in Brussels and in key 
source markets in order to ensure that regulation 
properly balances the needs and interests of 
customers and industry.
The question of aviation taxation has also ﬁgured 
prominently in a number of jurisdictions and we 
have, together with trade associations and other 
industry partners, sought to press our case for  
a more equitable taxation regime that properly 
rewards and incentivises efﬁcient use of aircraft.
Financial protection of air passengers continues  
to be an issue, particularly in the UK, and we  
have continued to lobby stakeholders to ensure  
a fair and affordable system of protection. Good 
progress has been made in this area, with the  
UK Government announcing plans for a series  
of key reforms. 
Finally, our work to inﬂuence the European 
Commission to extend the scope of the European 
Package Travel Directive in order to reﬂect the 
changes in the industry since the inception of that 
regulation, has continued and we see clear signals 
that the European Commission is now persuaded 
of the need for reform.
The sustainability challenge 
Travel and Tourism will account for 9% of global 
GDP* in 2011. The industry will continue to be  
one of the world’s fastest growing sectors, with 
emerging economies in particular seen as engines 
of such growth. Travel and Tourism today is 
responsible for 9% of global employment* but  
also for 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions**. 
From a sustainable development perspective this 
poses an interesting challenge – the growth of  
an industry highly dependent on fossil fuels and 
biodiversity in a world of ﬁnite natural resources. 
At TUI Travel we have long embraced this  
challenge. We are actively working towards our  
goal of providing special travel experiences whilst 
minimising environmental impact, respecting the 
culture and people in destinations and bringing  
real economic beneﬁt to local communities. We 
recognise these as issues on which the future 
health of our own business and of the wider 
industry depend. Hence the alignment of our 
sustainability programme with TUI Travel’s strategy 
and our record across the industry of inspiring 
change and leading by example. See Sustainable 
development on page 28.
provide our customers with easy-to-access 
information combined with easy-to-use booking 
engines. TUI Travel’s mainstream businesses have 
seen a consistent year on year increase in online 
bookings. In the past year, the Nordic business  
took 61% of its bookings online and in the UK 
online sales made up 39% of total bookings. 
TUI Travel’s accommodation wholesaler businesses 
(Hotelbeds, Bedsonline and Hotelopia) continue  
to experience strong growth and have established 
leading positions in this market. In the 
accommodation only online travel agency (OTA) 
segment, LateRooms.com now commands 25% 
market share in the UK and is among the top OTA 
players within Europe. The APAC region, with high 
annual growth forecasts in the accommodation 
OTA segment, is of increasing importance to TUI 
Travel. To strengthen our position in this market, 
we continue to invest in the AsiaRooms brand.
The economic environment
The global economic environment experienced  
two distinct phases in 2011. A recovery in early 
2011 curtailed the fears of a double-dip recession. 
This has, however, been followed by a period of 
slow growth and economies across Europe now 
face the prospect of a pronounced slowdown. 
The IMF projects real GDP growth worldwide at 
4.0% for 2011 and 2012 – 0.5% lower than its 
previous projection in April 2011. The GDP growth 
of our two largest source markets, Germany and 
UK, is also expected to slow to 2.7% and 1.1% 
respectively. While unemployment has continued  
to rise in the UK and currently stands at 8.3%, 
unemployment in Germany rose unexpectedly for 
the ﬁrst time in over two years in October 2011 and 
now stands at 7%. The economic outlook for 2012 
remains uncertain with continued uncertainty in 
North Africa, the ongoing Eurozone crisis and 
volatility in fuel and currency prices.
The leisure travel market
In 2010, international tourism saw a strong 
recovery driven primarily by better global  
economic conditions and compared to 2009,  
total international arrivals grew by 7% (UNWTO). 
TUI Travel’s ten core source markets, including  
the UK, Sweden, Germany, France, Belgium, the 
Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Switzerland and 
Canada, make up £388bn of global travel spend 
(Euromonitor), with our three largest markets  
of Germany, France and the UK totalling 65%  
of this spend.
With approximately a one third share of the 
European mainstream holiday market, TUI Travel 
occupies a strong position. We have number one  
or two brand positions across all our core markets 
and, as the traditional mainstream markets mature, 
we continue to differentiate ourselves by offering a 
greater choice of unique products and destinations 
as well as looking to new markets for growth. 
Independent travel, which includes self-packaged 
holidays, specialist holidays, accommodation only 
and online travel agencies, continues to be the 
fastest growing area of leisure travel. TUI Travel  
has market leading positions in a number of 
specialist segments within independent travel  
and we plan to continue to expand this portfolio  
of fast growing businesses.
The online travel market is a key area of focus. 
According to PhoCusWright, the global online travel 
market is estimated to be worth £181bn. Europe 
and the USA led the way in online sales in 2011, 
generating approximately 75% of global online 
revenues and growing 10% and 8% respectively 
year on year. The Asia-Paciﬁc (APAC) region, 
however, continues to grow at a much faster rate  
of 17% year on year. With the signiﬁcant proportion 
of future growth estimated to come through online 
channels, we remain focused in our efforts to 
Strategic overview
Market overview
£346bn
£42bn
Our three largest markets
France
UK
Germany
£85bn
£106bn
£61bn
= Core markets include
UK, Sweden, Germany,
France, Belgium, Netherlands,
Austria, Poland, Switzerland
and Canada
(Euromonitor)
TUI Travel’s core markets account  
for £388bn of global travel spend
