 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 09
new structure of the Group (see page 6) and 
succession planning.
We operate in a highly regulated industry and 
dialogue at both a national Government and 
European Commission level is an important aspect 
of our daily lives both at TUI Travel and as 
members of various industry and trade bodies.   
We believe that it is important that there is a level 
playing field across leisure travel companies, airlines 
and intermediaries and we work to ensure that our 
views are heard and understood not only in our 
source markets but also in the destinations we 
operate in.  For more information see page 12.
This year we have made progress on delivering our 
strategic imperatives, albeit not as great as we would 
have wished.  We know what we need to do to 
deliver long-term sustainable growth and have 
identified the levers with which to do that (see 
strategic imperatives page 14).  Trading in the new 
financial year has started well but we believe that, 
given that it is so early in the year and economic 
uncertainty remains, it is prudent to be cautious 
about our outlook.
In a year when our 49,000 colleagues have dealt with 
so many external and internal challenges, I would like 
to thank them personally for all their efforts.  We 
have an outstanding team that delivers day-in day-
out and I am extremely proud of what they achieve 
and of all the businesses that make up TUI Travel.  
Peter Long
Chief Executive
As the world’s leading leisure travel company, this 
financial year we have faced headwinds both within 
and outside of our control including volcanic ash, 
economic uncertainty (see page 10) and one 
instance of our own making.  
We identified that, over a number of years, within 
TUI UK & Ireland, there was a failure to reconcile 
balances adequately in legacy systems in the retail 
and tour operator businesses.  This has resulted  
in us having to write off £117m of irrecoverable 
balances.  We are, therefore, restating our 2009  
full year results with a reduction of underlying 
operating profit of £42m to £401m and a reduction 
in the underlying earnings per share of 3.8p from 
23.8p to 20.0p.  We have also reduced our opening 
reserves at 1 October 2008 by £70m from £2,596m 
to £2,526m.  A full and detailed audit and business 
review has been undertaken and we are confident 
that we have now rectified the weaknesses.
Having experienced some exceptional external 
challenges, the Summer season traded out strongly 
across the Group.  It was, however, not sufficient to 
recover the increased losses and costs from earlier in 
the year.  We have experienced a later booking curve 
due, in principle, to the economic uncertainties that 
our customers have continued to face.  This is one of 
the reasons why it is so important that we relentlessly 
focus on our strategic imperatives to ensure that we 
are able to deliver on our strategic goal.  
As part of the focus during the year we made a 
number of changes to our Group Management 
Board (see page 24).  These changes reflect the 
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at  
http://ara2010.tuitravelplc.com
Strategic overview
Chief Executive’s statement 
Following the success last year of launching our Annual Report & Accounts fully online we are doing 
the same this year with improvements to the functionality of the website and to the content.  
Reducing our environmental impact is important to us and the fact that more than 70% of our 
shareholders elect to receive the Annual Report & Accounts online proves that it is important for  
our stakeholders as well.
