 Strategic overview
www.tuitravelplc.com www.tuitravelplc.com
16 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and ﬁnancial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Distribution
Each of our source markets has its own distribution 
strategy which is tailored to meet different 
customer preferences and market dynamics. All 
markets, however, have a goal of increasing their 
levels of controlled distribution and reducing their 
costs of distribution through the efﬁcient operation 
of retail shops and call centres and the effective 
use of online sales channels. Strong controlled 
distribution with a focus on online sales has the 
beneﬁt of: (1) making it easier for us to understand 
customer needs and tailoring our products 
accordingly; (2) improving brand and product 
loyalty; and (3) enabling us to reduce our cost  
of distribution, thereby increasing margins. In the 
Mainstream Sector 65% of sales are now made 
through controlled channels (2010: 62%) and 30% 
of sales are made online (2010: 27%).
Operational efﬁciency
One of the key areas of focus for the Mainstream 
business is to be as cost efﬁcient as possible 
without making any compromises on customer 
experience. We are currently in the process of 
building new reservation systems in key source 
markets which will lower our production and  
back ofﬁce costs and at the same time improve 
customer experience. We are also taking a closer 
look at our airlines with the goal of making them  
as efﬁcient as possible.
Product 
Differentiation is one of the central pillars of our 
product strategy within our Mainstream Sector  
and we have a clear focus on increasing our 
differentiated and exclusive product offering across 
all source markets. By their nature, differentiated 
products are unique in the marketplace and 
difﬁcult to replicate by competitors. They 
command a margin premium and attract greater 
customer loyalty leading to higher repeat booking 
rates. In addition, earlier booking trends for 
differentiated content enable us to manage  
our capacity and yield more effectively.
In the Mainstream Sector, the level of differentiated 
product has increased over the last year and 
currently represents 41% of total holidays.  
We have speciﬁc targets to increase the level  
of differentiation and continue to evolve product 
content. In the UK we have introduced the 
Thomson Couples concept; all 16 hotels in this 
concept are child free. In the Nordics two new Blue 
Villages were opened in Turkey and Mallorca and,  
in Germany, the Sensimar portfolio grew from ﬁve 
to ten hotels.
Strategic overview
Strategy
Strategic growth initiatives
Mainstream
We have redeﬁned our mainstream business model from ‘traditional’ to ‘modern’ mainstream with a focus 
on differentiated and exclusive product, being online driven and cost efﬁcient.
TUI Travel’s strategic goal is to create superior shareholder value by being the 
leading global leisure travel group, providing customers with the widest choice 
of differentiated and ﬂexible travel experiences to meet their changing needs 
and maintaining our commitment to sustainable development.
Our four strategic imperatives of product and content, distribution and brands, 
people and operational effectiveness and growth and capital allocation underpin 
everything our businesses do. In addition, the Group is focused on three 
strategic growth initiatives: product, distribution and operational efﬁciency.
the backbone of Hotelbeds’ rapid expansion and 
has also enabled it to outperform the market 
consistently with 21% growth in total transaction 
value in 2011. Bedsonline, the accommodation 
wholesaler that sells directly to travel agencies,  
has been rapidly expanding its distribution 
channels and, since 2009, has entered into 11 new 
markets including the US, Brazil, Russia, Thailand 
and Singapore. Bedsonline now works with over 
23,500 travel agencies and sold 4.6 million roomnights 
in 2011 compared to 3.8 million in 2010.
Within Specialist & Activity, we are focusing on 
increasing the share of direct distribution to reduce 
distribution costs and increase direct access to 
customers. We have also recently launched the 
online iExplore portal which aggregates products 
from 20 UK brands, showcasing 120 activities, 130 
destinations and over 1500 products. Key features 
of the site include the ability to search, ﬁlter and 
compare activity products side by side, plus an 
‘inspirator travel proﬁler’, which matches your 
travel personality to holiday experiences.
Operational efﬁciency
There is an increased focus on operational 
efﬁciency within our Specialist & Activity 
businesses. An optimal cost structure for the 
Sector includes a reduction in the number of 
ﬁnance and reservation systems together with  
cost reductions gained by centralising certain  
back ofﬁce functions. 
Product
Increasing our hotel inventory and the range of 
accommodation will be the major growth driver  
for our online accommodation businesses in the 
Accommodation & Destinations Sector. Within the 
APAC region, we are looking to expand into new 
source markets with the AsiaRooms brand and 
have already translated the site into ﬁve languages 
(Traditional Chinese and Simpliﬁed Chinese, Thai, 
Malaysian and Indonesian). Sourcing the right hotels 
in the right destinations will be a key success factor. 
Within our portfolio of Specialist & Activity 
businesses there continues to be strong demand 
for experiential holidays. We plan to consolidate 
our market leading positions within the Specialist  
& Activity businesses and continue to look for 
innovative products and attractive markets for 
further growth. During the year in the Marine 
division, our inland waterways brand Le Boat 
launched the new 1500 series of boats, which 
introduces a new level of luxury to the inland 
waterways markets with a signiﬁcantly enhanced 
customer experience.
Distribution
Efﬁcient use of online distribution channels  
is at the forefront of our strategy within the 
accommodation OTA and accommodation 
wholesaler businesses. In 2011, Hotelbeds, the 
international accommodation wholesaler, covered 
over 100 source markets and more than 500 
destinations. A robust IT infrastructure has been 
Independent
TUI Travel already has market leading positions in independent travel including online accommodation, 
marine, adventure, education, language travel, ski, sport and specialist holidays. As the demand for 
independent travel grows, we aim to leverage TUI Travel’s strong position in the segment and further 
enhance our offering and reach.
Emerging Markets
Our Emerging Markets strategy continues to  
focus on Russia & CIS, where we have successfully 
completed three acquisitions with our venture 
partner S-Group Capital Management and 
successfully launched the TUI brand into the 
market. We are now focusing on increasing our 
presence from this platform.
We also have a presence in Brazil, China and  
India through our accommodation wholesaler and 
destination services businesses. In China we are 
delighted that this year TUI Travel has been one  
of the three foreign companies to be granted an 
outbound operating licence, under a new pilot 
scheme introduced by the Chinese National 
Tourism Authority. This licence creates a new 
source market for us with extensive growth 
prospects. We will continue to determine our 
participation strategy in the emerging markets  
to create long term sustainable growth for TUI 
Travel on a global scale.
Traditional Mainstream
Commodity packages
7 and 14 night durations
Brochure and retail led
Call centre based customer support
Modern Mainstream
Differentiated, unique holidays
Flexible durations
Online multi-media product marketing
Online self-service www.tuitravelplc.com www.tuitravelplc.com
18 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and ﬁnancial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic overview
 Strategy Target Performance Key performance indicators
Financial    
Product    
Distribution    
Operational  
efﬁciency    
Non-mainstream  
growth    
Responsible  
leadership    
Our main strategic objective is to improve the Group’s proﬁtability 
and free cash ﬂow and to deliver enhanced returns on investment.  
We believe that improving our ﬁnancial performance will allow us to 
invest in the future of our business for the beneﬁt of shareholders, 
colleagues and customers.
We target continuous 
improvement in Group return  
on invested capital (ROIC) and 
cash conversion of at least 70% 
of proﬁt before tax.
To measure our ﬁnancial progress we have two ﬁnancial KPIs:  
(i) the ROIC; and (ii) conversion of underlying proﬁt before tax  
to free cash ﬂow. 
ROIC has improved by 1.6 percentage points to 11.3%. This was  
driven by improvements in earnings in the year and a reduction in  
the deﬁned beneﬁt pension net deﬁcit as a result of measures taken 
to manage future liabilities. The improvement further justiﬁes our 
‘asset-right’ approach to managing the business.
Following an exceptional cash performance in 2010 as a result of 
signiﬁcant improvements to working capital, we are pleased with our 
cash conversion rate of 125% in 2011. We expect the conversion rate 
to fall in the next few years as we invest in order to improve under- 
performing businesses but that will return to a conversion rate of at 
least 70% once the business improvement programme is delivered.
ROIC
2011 2010 2009
11.3% 9.7%
1
 8.4%
1
Cash conversion
2011 2010 2009
125% 105%
1
 46%
1
1)  2010 and 2009 re-presented for Jet4You and Magic Life predecessor accounting; 
2010 proﬁts based on pro forma unaudited underlying operating proﬁt excluding 
the impact of volcanic ash.
Increasing the proportion of our products which are different to  
those offered by our competitors is key to our strategy. Differentiated 
products have earlier booking curves, higher customer satisfaction and 
retention and superior margins. These products are difﬁcult for 
competitors to replicate and we have a signiﬁcant competitive 
advantage due to our existing brand loyalty and experience of 
designing and operating new concepts.
We are targeting a differentiated 
product mix of greater than  
50% as a proportion of total 
Mainstream Sector holidays.
In the year, we increased the differentiated product mix by three 
percentage points across the Mainstream Sector as a whole. Within 
this, the Nordic region improved by thirteen percentage points and 
the UK by ﬁve percentage points.
Differentiated/exclusive product mix as a proportion of total 
Mainstream Sector holidays
2011 2010 2009
41% 38% 37%
Increasing our direct distribution mix, with a focus on online sales, is a 
key driver of reducing our distribution costs and enhancing customer 
relationships. Direct distribution typically represents the most 
efﬁcient distribution method and allows us to provide even better 
value to customers. In addition, customer trends support a shift 
towards the online channel and multi-media product marketing 
provides the opportunity to incorporate richer content, driving  
higher conversion rates.
We are targeting a controlled 
distribution mix of greater  
than two thirds and an online 
distribution mix of greater than 
40% in our Mainstream Sector. 
To measure our progress, we have two Distribution KPIs: (i) controlled 
distribution mix; and (ii) online distribution mix.
Controlled distribution mix improved by three percentage points in 
2011, with a strong performance by the Nordics and Belgium. The 
improvement in controlled distribution was driven by the online 
channel which also increased by three percentage points in 2011.
Controlled distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream 
Sector holidays
2011 2010 2009
65% 62% 59%
Online distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream  
Sector holidays
2011 2010 2009
30% 27% 25%
Our aim is to be as cost efﬁcient as possible without compromising 
customer experience. We have identiﬁed a number of business 
improvement opportunities within our Mainstream source markets 
which centre around legacy airline and systems costs. Within 
Mainstream, we target overheads of less than 5% in each source 
market. In addition, we are focused on making cost savings in our 
other Sectors, for example, through centralisation of back ofﬁce 
functions where appropriate.
We are targeting a further 
£107m of business improvement 
opportunities over the next 
three years to be delivered  
in broadly even tranches. 
We delivered £63m of turnaround and cost saving opportunities in 
2011 and were particularly pleased with our performance in Canada, 
which delivered £23m of proﬁt improvement, exceeding the original 
target of £11m.
Turnaround and cost savings delivered
2011
£63m
The Specialist & Activity and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors 
enjoy higher margin and growth characteristics. These operations are 
difﬁcult to replicate as we have crucial ﬁrst-mover advantage. Having a 
relevant position in the independent travel markets that are served by 
these Sectors is strategically important and a key differentiator and 
growth driver for the Group. Organic growth will be the key driver of 
proﬁt growth in these sectors.
We are targeting an average 
organic growth rate of 
approximately 10% per annum 
in the S&A and A&D Sectors  
in the next three years.
The S&A and A&D Sectors have grown on average by 6% per annum 
since the merger (2007). The average organic growth rate since 
merger fell from 7% in 2010 to 3% in 2011
2
, mainly due to challenging 
trading conditions in the Adventure and Education divisions of the 
S&A Sector.
Compound annual growth rate in the S&A and A&D Sectors’ organic 
proﬁts since merger
2007-2011 2007-2010
3%
2
 7%
2)  Excluding £10m investment in the OTA.
We are experiencing greater consumer awareness of sustainability and 
believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect our 
product into the future and also support product differentiation, 
brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
We are targeting our airlines to 
reduce per passenger carbon 
emissions by 6% by 2013/14 
(against a baseline of 2007/08). 
See Sustainable development 
page 28.
Three years ago TUI Travel airlines set a target to reduce carbon 
emissions by 6% by 2013/14, against a baseline of 2007/08, both on  
a total and relative basis. In 2010/11 TUI Travel airlines’ total carbon 
emissions were 5,467,814 tonnes, i.e. 9% less than in 2007/08*, whilst 
our relative carbon emissions in 2010/11 were 75.9g per revenue 
passenger kilometre (CO
2
/RPK), i.e. 2.6% less than 2007/08.
Carbon efﬁciency, measured through TUI Travel airlines’ average 
carbon emissions per revenue passenger kilometre (CO
2
/RPK) 
2011 2010 2009
75.9g 76.1g 78.1g
CO
2
/RPK CO
2
/RPK CO
2
/RPK
Strategic overview
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
* Achieved through operational efﬁciencies, fuel conservation and capacity amendments 
as well as the emission reductions which occurred in 2009/10 following the strategic 
venture with Air Berlin.
