 www.tuitravelplc.com
10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
This year has been a difficult one for TUI 
Travel.  Could you sum it up for us?
We started the year off well in terms of trading 
despite the fact that there was some bad weather 
in January which disrupted our programme.   
That was nothing compared to what we then had 
to deal with during April when we had the closure 
of airspace and all of our 143 aeroplanes were 
grounded for over a week.  Circa 400,000 guests 
were affected either by cancellations or having  
to be repatriated from their holidays.  This was  
a huge level of disruption but I think what we 
demonstrated as an organisation was our absolute 
professionalism to repatriate all our customers 
whilst causing them the minimum amount of 
disruption.  Our customers were extremely grateful 
and had high regard for the professionalism of our 
staff within our Company.
After the General Election we had further closure 
of airspace and that really did start to spook our 
customers because they were unsure as to whether 
they could be stranded when they were on holiday.  
This clearly had a negative effect and a number  
of our customers took the decision to delay their 
bookings and that had a very adverse impact on 
our business.  
I think we then went on to have the perfect  
storm because of ash, the General Election, the 
emergency budget and the World Cup – all these 
elements caused disruption in terms of our 
customers’ normal booking patterns.  After the 
World Cup we saw a resumption in terms of 
demand and, as we went through the high season, 
we had very strong sales which I think confirmed 
the importance customers place on their main 
summer holiday and that it’s a must-have, but 
when they book depends on the circumstances 
prevailing at the time.  We were unable to recover 
the impact of this perfect storm during the months 
of May, June and particularly in early July.  
As we went through our audit process we also 
uncovered some control issues within the Group in 
our UK business.  We found that our tour operating 
and retail systems were not being properly 
reconciled and that there was an overstatement of 
revenue.  This has now been fully investigated and 
controls have been put in place to ensure that this 
will not reoccur again.  We have also undertaken a 
full review of financial controls across the Group 
and I am satisfied that this event has not occurred 
in any other part of our business.
We continue to see smaller tour operators and 
airlines across Europe going out of business.  
What does that say about the quality of the 
tour operating industry?
I think firstly it says that there has been weakness 
of demand and the smaller companies suffer more.  
Invariably the smaller companies that have failed 
have not had appropriate capital structures and,  
as a consequence, I think we will now be a major 
beneficiary as customers migrate away from the 
smaller companies to those larger international 
organisations which are well financed, have been 
trading for decades and have very strong 
reputations.  I believe, therefore, that we can 
capitalise on this and there is an important 
message that we give to our customers – when you 
book with us you have peace of mind.  We have the 
experience, we have the depth of management, the 
choice of holidays and most importantly, we have 
the financial strength to ensure that we will deliver 
you a great holiday.
You launched TUI Russia & CIS this year.   
How is that area of the business performing?
We’re very excited by the opportunity within 
Russia.  There is a huge emerging middle class who 
like to travel and they like to go to sun and beach 
destinations.  Obviously being geographically 
located in the Northern hemisphere where the 
weather, particularly in the Winter, is severe, it plays 
very much to our strengths in terms of selling and 
delivering sun and beach holidays to large volumes 
of customers in a very efficient way.  We have 
partnered with a Russian partner – we think this is 
very important as we get to know and understand 
the different culture that we operate in and we’re 
very happy in terms of the partnership that we have.  
We launched the TUI brand, bringing TUI as a 
consumer brand to Russia in March and that has 
been very well received within the Russian market.  
So we are excited by the opportunities but we are 
also realists and know that this is a market that is 
going to have very strong growth characteristics 
but it will be some time before we see the 
profitability that we enjoy within the European 
markets.  Our investment to date has been modest 
so the risk profile is right but we’re there, we have 
the platform and the Russian market could grow to 
be one of our biggest markets within our Group.
Strategic overview | Chief Executive’s interview
An interview with  
Chief Executive, Peter Long Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
www.tuitravelplc.com
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11
and First Choice, and that is where the bulk of the 
synergies have come from.  In terms of growth 
opportunities, there are a number of areas, firstly 
continuing to improve the underperforming 
businesses such as Corsair.  I am delighted that  
we have now agreed a new social plan with all our 
colleagues at Corsair to create a viable business 
going forward and we will implement that 
restructuring over the next 24 months.
We are also looking at further improvements within 
our German and UK businesses, particularly in the 
area of new systems which will improve the 
efficiency of our business.  The other key aspect  
of our business is having more unique holiday 
experiences, those differentiated holidays.  We will 
continue to introduce more concept hotels that will 
enable us to increase the number of customers 
going on holiday with us within our mainstream 
businesses.  Equally, we also have good growth 
opportunities across all our specialist businesses 
where there is now a growing demand for different 
types of holidays, the non-sun and beach.  That 
might be a sailing holiday, a walking holiday or a 
Polar expedition cruise.  Customers are looking to 
do different things and we have this very broad 
portfolio of unique specialist holidays within  
the Group.
One of your values is responsible leadership.  
How do you put this into practice in the Group?
We’re very focused on sustainable tourism and 
we’re looking constantly at ways of reducing the 
level of carbon emissions as we transport and take 
our customers on holiday.  One way we do this is 
by having one of the most modern aircraft fleets  
in the world.  We continue to invest in new aircraft 
types and we’re very excited about the delivery of 
our new 787 Dreamliners which come into the fleet 
in 2012.  They burn 20% less fuel than the 767 fleet 
we currently operate.
A very important part of our organisation, 
absolutely key, is our leadership and the senior 
management team that run and operate our 
businesses and motivate and manage our 
colleagues.  We continually also look to develop 
talent within the organisation because one of the 
critical success factors within our business is 
ensuring we have the right management in the right 
place to continue to build and grow our businesses.
Peter Long
Chief Executive
You have changed the structure of the Group 
(from 1 October 2010).  Why have you  
done that?
We’ve modified the structure.  We’ve got our three 
regional geographies for our mainstream business 
– no change at all.  I’ve taken the Specialist and 
Activity Sectors and merged them into one.   
The other part of the specialist business was 
Emerging Markets and that is now a Sector in  
its own right because we want to be focusing on 
the opportunities in Russia which I have already 
alluded to but we’re also looking at the other  
BRIC economies of India, China and Brazil.   
Our Accommodation & Destinations Sector 
remains unchanged.
Are you worried about the low-cost carriers 
becoming tour operators and how will you 
counter the threat of the online travel  
agents (OTAs)?
We continue to look at all our competition.  One of 
the greatest strengths that we have as an 
organisation is the fact a large proportion of the 
holidays we offer are unique experiences that our 
customers can only book with us and that gives us 
a platform to set us aside from the rest of our 
competitors.  With regard to the low-cost carriers, 
one of the areas implemented during Summer 2010 
was a greater choice for our customers in terms of 
the duration of holidays.  We’ve introduced 10 and 
11 nights on top of our existing seven and 14-night 
offerings.  They have proved to be very popular 
and we will continue to offer further different 
duration lengths in order to give our customers  
the greatest choice of holiday experiences.
With regard to online travel agents, I think we 
compete in two different ways within our 
mainstream businesses and, taking the UK as an 
example, 40% of our bookings are transacted 
online.  We are also in the online travel agent space 
in the specialist area which is accommodation only 
and we have two very important businesses within 
the Group which are LateRooms and AsiaRooms 
and these businesses are extremely successful and 
growing very rapidly.
You have all but delivered the synergies 
identified at the time of merger.  How are you 
going to grow the business going forward?
I am very pleased with the success of the 
integration of our two UK businesses, Thomson 
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at  
http://ara2010.tuitravelplc.com
