 Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
We are very proud that TUI Travel is the world’s
leading leisure travel company taking over 30 million
customers on holiday each year. We have produced
another good set of financial results this year, with 
a £45m increase in underlying operating profit 
to £443m and an improvement in underlying
operating margin of 30 basis points to 3.2%.
Our performance is particularly impressive as it has
been achieved in spite of the higher levels of cost
inflation and the challenging economic backdrop,
which has resulted in both higher unemployment
and declines in consumer confidence in all source
markets. The Group’s flexible business model and
careful capacity management has meant we have
been able to successfully manage the businesses
through this difficult period. Our strong brands,
together with ongoing product innovation and
development, have also meant that we have
continued to maintain market-leading positions and 
to deliver new holiday experiences for customers.
Climate change has been one of the most talked-
about topics this year and in the leisure travel
industry it is without doubt one of the largest
challenges we face. TUI Travel is the first major 
tour operator to commit to carbon reduction targets
and I have met with business leaders to discuss 
the business community’s response to climate
change. We will continue with our commitment 
to sustainability and strive to ensure that it aligns
with our strategic priorities.
TUI Travel’s clear strategic goal is to create superior
shareholder value by being the world’s leading
leisure travel group providing customers with the
widest choice of differentiated and flexible travel
experiences to meet their changing needs. This 
year we have focused on delivering growth and
shareholder value by growing our Mainstream
businesses’ margins and building our portfolio of
specialist businesses. We have made substantial
progress in delivering both these targets and we 
are confident there is more growth to come.
Finally, all of our achievements this year could not
have happened without the hard work and dedication
of our 50,000 colleagues and I would like to thank
them personally for their contribution.
Peter Long
Chief Executive
Strategic overview | Chief Executive’s statement
A clear strategic goal
Welcome to TUI Travel PLC’s 2009 annual report. This year we have taken the step of putting 
our Annual Report & Accounts fully online reflecting our ongoing commitment to sustainable
development and the fact that over 70% of our shareholders will be receiving it electronically 
this year. We hope you enjoy reading and hearing about TUI Travel’s achievements.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11
www.tuitravelplc.com
Peter Long
Chief Executive
View the CEO’s interview online
Watch the CEO’s interview online at 
http://ara2009.tuitravelplc.com
