 www.tuitravelplc.com www.tuitravelplc.com
10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11
Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and ﬁnancial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
You have appointed Johan Lundgren 
as Deputy Chief Executive with 
responsibility for the Mainstream 
Sector – a Sector that you’ve decided 
is critical to your plans in the future – 
this must indicate that Mainstream is 
incredibly important to you?
Yes. Four years on from our merger much has  
been achieved including integrating two very big 
businesses in the UK – Thomson and First Choice.
We are now at the next stage of our development 
and for us to achieve what we want with modern 
mainstream we need to be best in class, not in 
pockets of Mainstream but across all the 
Mainstream businesses. 
Johan is a ﬁrst rate tour operator and leader.  
He successfully led our Nordics businesses and 
more recently took overall responsibility for  
TUI UK & Ireland which has achieved an excellent 
performance. What Johan will do with his 
experience and his enthusiasm is to take the 
business to the next stage to ensure that our 
business model is robust not just for the next two 
to three years but to the end of this decade and 
into the next decade so by the time we’re at 2025 
we can say we’ve changed our business and we’ve 
adapted our business to satisfy the customers’ 
needs of today and that requires us to continue  
on a journey of change and innovation. 
So is Johan’s promotion an  
indication that perhaps you  
are thinking of retiring?
Far from it, I’m as excited and committed to TUI 
Travel and the next stage of our journey as I’ve  
ever been. What it does reﬂect, however, is the 
importance of Johan’s role. It also shows how 
seriously we take management succession and 
capability in the Group. I am delighted to say that 
following Johan’s appointment we have promoted 
from within, which is testament to the strength  
and capability of our management team.
Next year will see the introduction  
of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme 
or ETS, how do you feel about having 
yet another tax being imposed upon 
your Group?
We advocate legislative frameworks that reward 
and incentivise businesses like ours that strive to 
continuously improve environmental efﬁciency  
and invest in lower-carbon technology. What we 
need, however, is a level playing ﬁeld so I am very 
concerned that this could become a situation  
where it is only European airlines facing ETS.
Also, in a number of our source markets and 
particularly the UK, we already pay signiﬁcant 
passenger duty taxes and EU ETS should not  
be about double taxation.
On top of your cash ﬂow and your 
proﬁts you’ve also announced a 
business improvement programme so 
obviously you’re not being complacent 
about your success?
That’s absolutely right. At the beginning of the 
ﬁnancial year we said that we expected to deliver a 
further £89m through our turnaround programmes 
across our Mainstream businesses and an 
additional £40m of cost savings and efﬁciencies 
across the Group over a three-year period. This 
year we have delivered £63m of this total.
We have, since then, identiﬁed further turnaround 
opportunities and cost efﬁciencies across the 
Group and have combined them under a new 
business improvement programme and, as a result, 
we have increased our target to £107m which we 
expect to deliver over the next three years. 
You announced earlier in the year  
that from next summer the First 
Choice programme would be an all 
inclusive brand. Why did you make  
this decision?
A not inconsiderable number of our customers like 
the certainty of knowing what the overall cost of 
their holiday is going to be before they go away, 
particularly in the current economic environment. 
Our First Choice brand was already 65% all 
inclusive and by making it an all inclusive brand  
we have a clear differentiator.
So what is your response to those who 
might argue that all inclusive holidays 
are harmful to local communities?
We try to fulﬁl our customers’ holiday needs in  
the most responsible way that we can and we are 
mindful that all inclusive holidays evoke strong 
opinions. In our view the key issue is whether a 
hotel is being operated responsibly in relation  
to the environment and the local community, 
whatever its board basis. The evidence we have  
to date shows that our all inclusive properties 
employ more local people on higher beneﬁts. We 
promote the use of local produce and encourage 
our customers to buy local goods and to take 
excursions to the surrounding area. In a number  
of destinations all inclusive properties are bringing 
improved economic beneﬁt to that particular 
region. We are involved with several research 
projects into all inclusive which will guide our 
efforts to ensure our holidays beneﬁt communities 
as well as our customers.
Strategic overview
What we mean by differentiated and exclusive 
product is a holiday that you can only get from  
us. We either deﬁne the concept and own it,  
like Sensatori, Blue Villages, Sensimar or Holiday 
Villages, or we are the exclusive tour operator in  
a particular hotel in a particular source market.  
We are increasing the share of differentiated and 
exclusive holidays and moving away from product 
that you can get from anyone and which we 
consider to be commodity.
Having a direct relationship with the customer  
is very important for us and we believe that this  
will increasingly be through online channels.
How important to TUI Travel is the 
online side of your business?
We regard it as a vital part of our business and not 
just a channel to market. We will be driving online 
growth across all our businesses whatever leisure 
travel experiences they satisfy. In the Nordics,  
our businesses are already online driven and our 
online accommodation wholesalers and online 
travel agents have been delivering an average 
CAGR of 25% and 33% respectively. 
One thing you have done this year  
is generate an extremely strong cash 
ﬂow which has been the envy of many 
of your competitors. How did you 
manage to do that?
We have turned our operating proﬁts into cash  
and that’s ultimately what we have to do and we’ve 
demonstrated our ability to be able to grow the 
business successfully through these initiatives and 
particularly around modern mainstream, also 
around the other range of products that we have 
within our specialist businesses, whether that’s our 
yacht ﬂeet where we’re number one in the world 
with over 1,200 yachts, whether it’s all our boats on 
the inland waterways across Europe – a very broad 
choice of leisure travel experiences which is quite a 
unique portfolio when one compares with the rest 
of our competitors in the market. 
We were able to reduce net debt and end the year 
in a positive position. Continued improvement in 
cash ﬂow is a key target for us in order to fund the 
dividend and future growth.
So Peter, how did you manage to 
perform so well?
I am very pleased with our performance this year. 
We have achieved another year of record proﬁts. 
This is despite us being affected by the events of 
the ‘Arab Spring,’ which we estimate probably cost 
us something in the region of £70m but which we 
were able to mitigate in all our markets except 
France, which has a huge reliance on North African 
destinations, particularly Egypt and Tunisia. 
We had a strong performance in most of our 
source markets and the ﬂexibility in our business 
model meant that when the ‘Arab Spring’ hit us,  
we were able to quickly move capacity away from 
those affected destinations and secure additional 
beds, particularly in the Western Mediterranean.
The breadth of businesses that we have across  
the Group means that we are able to satisfy most 
leisure travel requirements through either our 
‘product driven’ or ‘price driven’ propositions.
Within product driven you will ﬁnd our modern 
mainstream, differentiated and exclusive product, 
as well as our specialist and activity products. Price 
driven includes mainstream commodity packages 
and our online accommodation providers.
We have a clear strategy and road map for 
achieving our strategic goals and with a strong, 
committed management team we operate from  
a position of strength. 
You’ve identiﬁed ‘modern mainstream’ 
as central to your strategy for 2012. 
What do you mean by modern 
mainstream and how are you going  
to approach it?
Modern mainstream is about building on the 
journey of offering this unique and exclusive 
product – we need to give customers the reason 
why they should book with us and I think that 
exclusive offering is very important. The other 
important factor with modern mainstream is to 
give the customer the opportunity to book their 
holiday through any channel that they wish and  
the importance of online today, whether it’s 
researching the holiday, whether it’s booking the 
holiday, or whether it’s a combination of using 
research plus going to one of our travel agents, 
modern mainstream encompasses those two key 
aspects – the uniqueness of holiday experience and 
the choice of channels with which our customers 
can book their holidays. 
Strategic overview
An interview with the 
Chief Executive, Peter Long
2011 has been a turbulent year for the travel industry with global economic uncertainties and many 
companies hit hard by the Arab Spring uprisings. Still, TUI Travel, a leader in the market, has in these 
difﬁcult times recorded a proﬁt. To understand how TUI Travel has weathered the storm and get some 
insights into their strategies for 2012 we’re joined now by Chief Executive of TUI Travel, Peter Long. 
View the  
interview online
http://ara2011.tuitravelplc.com
