 22 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
Chief Executive’s review
Directors’ Report: Business review
Tullow continues to develop a
business that creates value through
combining high-impact exploration
with lower-risk appraisal and growing
production; underpinned by a well
funded capital structure.
Becoming Africa’s leading independent oil company
Tullow has a long history in Africa. We know
and understand the continent well which is rich in
under-explored petroleum basins that offer material
upside potential. We acquired our first licences
in Senegal in 1985 and over the last decade the
continent has been the major focus of our activity.
We have put our energy and capital into exploring,
appraising and developing significant resources
in Africa and are well advanced towards first
commercial production from major new basins
in Ghana and Uganda. We are well organised in
Africa and have 50 licences in 16 countries,
spanning 130,000 sq km. We have key production
and development assets in seven countries, 338
employees, five business units, a main office
in Cape Town and regional offices for our major
developments in Accra and Kampala.
Big projects bring with them
big responsibilities and we are
determined to make a major
contribution to building in-country
capacity and developing indigenous
enterprise.This role fits well with
our entrepreneurial spirit and
our values.
Aidan Heavey
Chief Executive Officer www.tullowoil.com 23
Directors’ Report: Business review
Doing business inatransparentandethicalway
Our longevity and experience means we know how to
do business in Africa in a transparent and ethical way.
We also understand the management of associated
risks. We have major project teams in Ghana and
Uganda who, together with our partners, complete
ongoing risk analysis and reporting. Our African
exploration team champion and develop exploration
opportunities within a competitive global capital
allocation process. We are always challenging
where the greatest opportunities are and as a
result we continue to de-risk our African portfolio
with material discoveries.
There is potential during operations to damage the
ecosystems and biodiversity that often underpins
the sources of food and the livelihoods of local
communities. The open, detailed and transparent
approach we took in Ghana to the EIA, together with
our investment in the development of 21
st
Century
operations, exemplify how seriously we take this
challenge in developing our operations in Africa.
Embracingbigprojects andbigresponsibilities
Our reputation is built on trust, respect, transparency
and strong business ethics. To us it is a key business
enabler . It creates the opportunity for us, for example,
to work closely with the Ugandan Government to gain
their approval for the pre-emption of the Heritage
interests in the Lake Albert Rift Basin, in parallel
with a farmdown of up to two-thirds of the combined
assets to leading industry partners. This process is
now well advanced and we fully expect to agree an
aligned and accelerated basin-wide development
plan this year.
Tullow’s role in the development of two major new oil
provinces gives us a significant position in laying the
foundations for the long-term development of social
and economic capacity and avoiding ‘the curse of oil’.
Through human resource initiatives and training, we
are developing in-country skills and have specific
localisation recruitment policies. In our wider supply
chain we work with local businesses and suppliers to
help them to develop in-country services that Tullow
and the industry will require. Given the scale of our
investment in Africa, over £2 billion in three years
including 2010, we can, and do, exert influence over
our supplier base and how large multinational
suppliers set-up their operations in-country.
Being entrepreneurial is a core value for Tullow and
it is important that other businesses and enterprises
develop alongside our operations. We recognise that
there is always more work to do and in particular in
our contribution and role in social enterprise and
community development.
Managing our operating environment
To function as a business we must have a very
outward looking perspective. We take account of
what our owners, partners, governments, employees,
communities and related social groups are saying
to us. A large part of my role is to ensure that the
environment in which Tullow needs to operate and
prosper is working. Together with Tullow’s Executive
Directors we dedicate a lot of time interacting with our
key stakeholders and have developed strong internal
resources in areas such as Investor Relations,
Human Resources, Internal Communications
and, more recently, External Affairs.
Creatingsharedprosperity
A key responsibility of our new External Affairs
function is to develop an aligned long-term approach
to corporate responsibility activities to underpin and
define all we do in this very important aspect of our
business. This approach will work in partnership
with all our stakeholders to ensure that the oil and
gas resources we manage act as a positive catalyst
for new opportunities and economic development,
creating shared prosperity.
Building a winning team
African cultures are very people centric and this we
feel gives us a natural affinity with Africa. At the heart
of Tullow are our people. We are continuously building
‘best in class’ resources and skill sets across the
Group. We have an exceptional exploration team
and a great portfolio of assets for them to work on.
Our development team has created the benchmark
for deepwater development in Ghana and are now
looking to accelerate plans to develop another
world-class basin in Uganda. We have an experienced
production team with a strong track record of adeptly
maximising production output who are looking forward
to contributing to the management of our growing
production profile. We not only build very strong
internal teams, but it is our ability to bring groups
of companies to work together which means
we can consistently deliver on each challenge
and milestone.
Having clear business plans
We are clear on our business plans for the next three
years. These are developed from our strategy and are
closely aligned with continuing to build a business
that delivers top quintile growth. Our strategy
and business model are outlined on page 24.
Our 2010-2012 business plans are:
1. Deliver Jubilee Phase 1 first oil, production ramp up
and assess all subsequent phases of development
in Ghana;
2. In Uganda, agree an aligned accelerated basin-wide
development plan over the next 12 months, followed
by delivery of first commercial oil and first
commercial power in 2011;
