 8 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Focused on improving returns
“Cash flow generation and improving returns 
from our assets form a key part of our 
Operational Review and we will update on our 
progress throughout the course of 2013. We 
have maintained the 2012 dividend at the 2011 
level, reflecting our confidence in the business 
and our commitment to shareholder returns. ”
CAPITAL ALLOCATION
(US$m)
0
100
200
300
400
FY2010 FY2011 FY2012
Dividend payments Acquistion spend Exploration spend
0
Overall for ABG, 2012 was a year where we realised good progress in 
several areas but where we did not meet our core production and cost 
targets. W e continued to invest in the ongoing stability of the business and 
our licence to operate. This was rewarded with increasing consistency 
in the operational performance at Buzwagi as the year progressed, and 
improvements in the grade profile at North Mara where we also received 
confirmation of the renewal of our mining licences and signed the Village 
Benefit Implementation Agreements. Overall, our mining rates for the 
year increased, we processed 4% more tonnes through our plants and 
we improved the recovery profile of our operations despite the expected 
decrease in grade. We also significantly enhanced our early stage 
exploration portfolio with the acquisition of Aviva Mining (Kenya) 
Limited (“ AMKL ”).
Our Group production for the year was 9% lower than 2011, with the 
grade driven increase at North Mara offset by declines of similar levels 
at our other three operations. Bulyanhulu was impacted by paste fill and 
equipment availability issues together with the loss of skilled employees 
due to proposed government pension law changes; Buzwagi saw an 
expected reduction in grade to around its reserve grade although it did 
benefit from improved plant performance later in the year; and Tulawaka 
operated under batch processing following the exhaustion of surface 
stockpiles. These lower production levels, together with higher energy and 
maintenance expenses, resulted in our cash costs for the year reaching 
US$949 per ounce sold. As we move into 2013, we start from a strong 
platform with a net cash position of US$401 million, but we nonetheless 
need to strengthen our focus on reducing costs in order to ensure the 
business can deliver attractive levels of free cash flow generation. This will 
form a key part of our ongoing Operational Review. 
Greg Hawkins,
Chief Executive Officer Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Beyond the day to day operational challenges of our business, for a large 
part of the second half of the year we also dealt with several additional 
factors resulting from the discussions between Barrick and China National 
Gold with respect to Barrick’s majority stake in ABG. These included a 
detailed due diligence process and site visits as well as other factors such 
as dealing with the uncertainty caused among our employees and also the 
communities in which we operate. We implemented a range of measures 
to deal with these additional challenges and were largely successful in 
limiting the disruption to our business. With the discussions now 
terminated, we need to ensure everyone in the business remains focused 
on delivering the significant potential of our asset base.
Our share price performance in 2012 was set against a backdrop of 
continuing underperformance by gold equities relative to the underlying 
commodity. The key focus from investors has centred on the lack of free 
cash flow leverage in the industry to the gold price, either through rising 
operational costs or increasing investment in new projects which do 
not meet hurdle return rates. In the three years since ABG listed as an 
independent company we have been successful in generating substantial 
free cash flow and have maintained the view that capital returns to 
shareholders are of critical importance: with the proposed final dividend 
for 2012, we will have returned in excess of US$150 million to shareholders 
over that period and have also invested in two early stage projects which 
we believe have the potential to deliver significant long-term value to the 
business. Nonetheless, during 2012 the increases in our operating expenses 
and in the level of capital we invested in our assets meant that the business 
consumed capital, which is not sustainable over the longer term. As such, 
the Board of ABG has asked management to conduct a full Operational 
Review of the business with the aim of recalibrating our operations so as to 
drive improved returns from the asset base whilst enhancing the certainty 
of delivery. The review commenced in January 2013.
More recently, Kevin Jennings, our Chief Financial Officer, has given 
notice that he intends to leave ABG in order to take up a similar role at 
another mining company. Whilst we are naturally disappointed to see 
Kevin leave us, we understand his wish to pursue this new opportunity 
and wish him the very best for his new venture.
Operating performance
At an individual mine level, Bulyanhulu remained our largest producing 
asset and is set to remain so with the existing mine plan and the growth 
projects being advanced. In 2012, production was 10% lower than in 2011 
as we experienced power supply issues earlier in the year which impacted 
on hoisting capacity, while later in the year the delivery of ore to surface 
was reduced by a lack of paste fill availability which led to increased reliance 
on lower grade stopes and a shortage of skilled personnel resulting from 
resignations in the face of proposed changes to pension fund legislation in 
Tanzania. We have several initiatives in place to deal with these short-term 
factors in order for Bulyanhulu to get back to its expected run rate as 
2013 progresses.
At North Mara, it was pleasing to see the expected increase in production 
levels on the prior year as we accessed the higher grade zones in the 
Gokona pit in the second half of the year. This reduced the reliance on 
lower grade stockpiles to provide feed to the mill and led to increased head 
grade and a 13% increase in production compared to 2011. Operations 
saw some impact from an increase in illegal mining activity during the 
second half of the year but this has now subsided and returned to more 
normalised levels. Production during 2012 was from the Gokona and 
Nyabigena pits, with operations at the Nyabirama pit subject to the 
necessary land acquisitions and relocations which are a key focus for mine 
management in 2013.
At Buzwagi, significant progress was made across both mining and 
processing activities during the year. Production was 16% below the level 
of 2011, a result of the expected 30% decline in grade as the mine operated 
at close to its reserve grade. This impact was slightly offset by operational 
improvements, with a 33% increase in total tonnes mined, which includes 
a 19% increase in ore tonnes, and a throughput increase of 24%. Site 
management are now firmly focused on ensuring these improvements 
are maintained during 2013.
At Tulawaka, the processing plant operated on batch milling due to the 
lack of sufficient ore to run it full time, which was a consequence of relying 
on underground material during 2012. As a result, throughput was down 
substantially on 2011 with a corresponding fall in production levels. We 
have successfully extended the life of this operation consistently in the last 
three years; however, as a part of the Operational Review we have taken 
the decision not to further extend the mine life and to phase out the 
operation in 2013. We are currently starting to implement our closure plan 
for the operation and will engage with our employees as we move through 
this process. As a result of this, and in combination with the downward 
revision of reserves, we have incurred a non-cash impairment charge at 
the mine of US$44.5 million for 2012.
Growth projects
We have continued to make very good progress on our growth projects 
over the year: we are progressing the construction of the Bulyanhulu CIL 
Expansion project, and the Board has approved the ordering of certain 
long lead items required for the acceleration of mining at the Upper East 
Expansion project at Bulyanhulu. These two projects will add meaningful 
long-term production to our core operating asset. 10 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Key challenges 
and mitigants Challenges Mitigants
Power supply
 Unreliable grid power Optimising use of back-up power
 Ongoing review of alternative sources for  
power generation
Security , trespass  
and vandalism
 Incidences of trespass, theft, corruption  
and vandalism at operations
 Upgrading security infrastructure
 Development of security personnel
 Progressing dialogue on law and order
Community relations
 Operational and reputational impact of  
legacy issues as a result of prior management  
of relations with local communities
 Continue to build on existing community 
relationships
 ABG Maendeleo Fund
 Development of social management plans
Land acquisition
 Impact of land acquisition cost and delays in 
completing such acquisitions on current mining 
activities, particularly at North Mara
 Engagement with local and central government  
to address land speculation
Developing commercial 
mining industry
 Challenge of developing and retaining  
a skilled workforce
 Continuing investment in training and development
 Continued progression of programmes for 
workforce localisation
On our greenfield exploration portfolio we continued to increase the size 
of the Nyanzaga resource, which now has an in-pit resource of over 4.6 
million ounces (“Moz”) of gold (“ Au”) consisting of 3.75 Moz at 1.42 g/t 
Au Indicated and 0.85 Moz at 1.81 g/t Au Inferred. We are currently 
finalising the pre-feasibility study and expect to take a decision on whether 
to progress to a full feasibility study by the middle of the year.
We also acquired an interest in over 2,800 square kilometres of under 
explored, highly prospective licence areas in Kenya for an initial 
consideration of US$22 million, including exploration funding. The 
licences add more than 20 existing targets from grassroots through to the 
drill testing stage into the exploration and development pipeline and will 
be the focus for a significant proportion of our exploration budget in 2013.
Drilling at North Mara has continued to highlight the potential for 
underground development at both the Gokona and Nyabirama pits and 
we are undertaking the technical trade-off analysis in order to establish 
how best to sequence the underground potential with the existing open pit 
operations in order to maximise the life of mine return from the mine.
Government relations
Notwithstanding the acquisition of AMKL in 2012, the majority of our 
assets and our cash flow remain in Tanzania. During 2012, we continued 
to build on the constructive dialogue we enjoy with the Tanzanian 
government as our operations delivered significant benefits and value to 
our host communities. The decision to voluntarily move to a royalty rate 
of 4% from 3% was one that ABG instigated but it was also recognition of 
the improved level of cooperation we saw from the Tanzanian authorities 
as we solved a range of taxation, permitting and licensing issues, some 
of which dated from several years back.
As we move into 2013 there remains much to be done and it is vital we 
enjoy the ongoing support of the government in these areas. Across our 
asset base, the lack of availability of reliable power is a key issue for us and 
one which is receiving attention at the highest levels within the Tanzanian 
government, and we look forward to the government delivering on its 
initiatives to alleviate this issue. At North Mara, we have seen good 
support over the last few months in relation to improving law and order 
but need to resolve a number of land access issues to ensure we have the 
appropriate footprint for our operations and we look forward to the 
government’ s support in achieving this. Elsewhere, we are encouraging the 
government to help resolve the pension fund issue which has impacted 
our workforce. From a taxation perspective, we are working closely with 
the appropriate authorities to ensure we minimise the level of working 
capital tied up in indirect tax payments which are recoverable under the 
terms of our Mineral Development Agreements.
Licence to operate
From an operational perspective, ABG has a high quality and well 
invested portfolio of assets which positions us strongly for the long term. 
However, without the accompanying licence to operate and a stable 
working relationship with all stakeholders, the quality of our assets could 
be significantly impacted. For this reason, the achievements we have made 
with the government and with our host communities on issues relating to 
our operating environment are of key importance. We have benefited from 
a full year of operation of the ABG Maendeleo Fund which has supported 
a range of projects across our operations throughout the year. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
In terms of the individual operations, the key challenges are centred on 
North Mara and we have made significant progress in 2012 in order to 
secure the long-term future of the mine. In addition to the signing of 
VBIAs with the local communities, we have invested 39% of the ABG 
Maendeleo Fund’ s annual expenditure towards new infrastructure around 
North Mara, including rehabilitating the local health clinic, the provision 
of clean water and the launch of a major school desk programme. 
W e were also pleased to receive the renewal of the special mining licences 
(“SMLs”) at North Mara. The renewals are on the same terms and 
conditions as the previous licences and are both for a period of 15 years. 
The original SMLs were issued in February 2000 and had expired in 
September 2011, since which time the mine continued to operate on the 
same basis due to the rollover provisions contained in the Tanzanian 
Mining Act.
The life of mine footprint continues to be a challenge at North Mara 
as land acquisition is increasingly expensive due to the high levels of 
speculation. This has led to the ongoing suspension of operations in the 
Nyabirama pit. We are engaging with local and central government in 
order to find a solution. During the year we received waste rock permits 
necessary for the immediate operations of the site and we continue to 
apply for permits to meet ongoing requirements.
We continue to work with the relevant authorities to progress the lifting of 
the Environmental Protection Order at North Mara in order to be able to 
discharge water. NEMC, the environmental regulator, has recently visited 
the operation for a final review and we are now awaiting their approval.
Outlook
ABG enters 2013 with a high-quality portfolio of assets and significant 
financial strength as a result of our net cash position of over US$400 
million. However, we did not generate acceptable returns from the 
business in 2012 and with the production level forecast for this year we 
need to implement efficiencies in our operating cost base as well as 
applying capital more selectively to the business following the heavy 
investment made over the past three years. These objectives will form the 
key pillars of our Operational Review, together with a detailed assessment 
of our life of mine plans to establish the optimal mining rates as we move 
forward. Our operating environment has evolved substantially in recent 
years, as have our assets, and we need to ensure the organisation is 
properly set to maximise returns against this backdrop.
At the mine level, our expectation is for broadly similar production levels 
to 2012 at our Buzwagi and North Mara operations, with lower production 
at Bulyanhulu as we implement our recovery plan at the mine through the 
first half of the year and Tulawaka as it comes to the end of its life in the 
second quarter of the year.
As a result of our Operational Review, we are targeting reductions to our 
cash cost per ounce as we go through the year. While we estimate the cash 
cost per ounce for the year, including royalties, will be between US$925-
975 per ounce sold (including a reduction of US$120 per ounce sold due 
to a change in accounting for waste stripping (IFRIC 20)), we anticipate 
the run rate will be below this level by the end of the year. 
With US$135 million of capital being allocated to expansion projects, 
principally at Bulyanhulu, we have set our sustaining capital budget at 
US$100 million, including land, and we have allocated US$210 million to 
capital development inclusive of deferred stripping. The adoption of IFRIC 
20, which recognises eligible production phase deferred waste stripping 
costs as assets on a stage-by-stage basis as opposed to the previous single 
pit basis, will increase our deferred stripping capitalisation by 
approximately US$70 million over 2012.
Overall, our key objectives for 2013 are:
 achieving attributable Group production of between 540,000–
600,000 ounces;
 maintaining total cash cost including royalties of between US$925–
US$975 per ounce sold;
 total capital expenditure of US$445 million, comprising US$100 million 
of sustaining capital, US$210 million of capital development inclusive 
of deferred stripping and US$135 million of expansion capital;
 completing the Operational Review and implementing outcomes from 
the process;
 substantially completing construction planned for the Bulyanhulu 
CIL Expansion;
 obtaining Board approval for the Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion;
 optimising Group throughput and recoveries;
 achieving growth in our overall resource base;
 improving further our safety record;
 continuing the development of our sustainability practices; and
 continuing our disciplined focus on opportunities for strategic 
acquisitions throughout Africa.
Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their commitment, 
enthusiasm and hard work throughout what has been an important year 
in the development of our business. I would also like to thank our Board 
for their unwavering support, their wise counsel and their commitment 
throughout the year.
Greg Hawkins, 
Chief Executive Officer
