 6 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Chairman’s statement
Navigating through challenges
Dear Shareholders,
The past year has been a period of change and readjustment for the Board 
and ABG as a whole. While the financial and operating results for the year 
were disappointing, the Board has approved a number of initiatives which 
should positively influence future performance. 
The year’s most notable event was the decision by Barrick to seek a 
purchaser for its shareholding in the Company. This process, and the 
associated due diligence, diverted a significant amount of Board and 
senior management time and also impacted relations with the Tanzanian 
government and local communities. Although the sale process was 
ultimately unsuccessful there were several positive outcomes. In particular, 
the intense due diligence process and associated learning have been 
incorporated into several initiatives which were underway prior to the 
Offer Period as part of a major review of the Company’s structure and 
costs, culminating in the Board’s request for management to perform an 
Operational Review. The key objectives of this are to drive improved 
returns from the asset base and enhance the certainty of performance 
delivery in the future. 
On the operations front, whilst we fell short of production targets for 
the year as a result of challenges faced in our operating environment, 
nevertheless we progressed certain key objectives. 
Throughout the year we increased our focus on upgrading the production 
potential at Bulyanhulu, with the advancement of the Bulyanhulu CIL 
Expansion project that will add a further 40-50 thousand ounces to annual 
production, as well as progressing plans for the development of the Upper 
East Zone, which has the potential to add a further 90 thousand ounces of 
production per annum. Though the poor performance at the end of the year 
associated with the paste backfill system and a loss of qualified personnel 
in the face of proposed pension legislation changes was disappointing, we 
are undertaking a number of actions to prevent a repeat of this and to 
progress this world class asset generally. 
New projects such as Buzwagi typically take some five years to consistently 
reach full nameplate capacity, so it was gratifying to see this mine really 
perform in the last quarter of the year after months of suffering regular 
power interruptions and lower recoveries.
North Mara experienced certain setbacks in its community engagement 
programme during the prolonged Offer Period, but at the end of the year 
and beginning of 2013, with strong support from local authorities, the 
situation improved markedly, allowing these programmes to regain 
traction. In this context, ABG is developing a multi-pronged social 
programme to improve the balance between the illegal miners, the local 
communities and the operating constraints of the mine. In future, this 
will be a key factor in determining the success of the mine, the creation 
of community wealth and associated stable employment and improved 
local infrastructure.
Our efforts to add meaningful reserves to Tulawaka during the year were 
unsuccessful and as a result of this we have taken the decision to phase out 
this operation in 2013. 
Lastly, from a growth perspective, we have continued to make good 
progress across our brownfield exploration programme and made 
significant additions to our greenfield projects through the acquisition 
of Aviva Mining (Kenya) Limited. Not only does this provide significant 
additions to our exploration pipeline, it also provides the opportunity 
to diversify both ABG’s geographical and political exposure.
Derek Pannell, 
Acting Chairman of the Board Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Final dividend for 2012
While our operational and financial performance in 2012 has been lower 
than the previous year, we recognise the importance of rewarding ongoing 
support from our shareholder base. For this reason, the Board has 
recommended that the total dividend for 2012 be maintained at the 2011 
level, comprising a final dividend of US12.3 cents per share, such that the 
total dividend payable in respect of 2012 is US16.3 cents per share.
Board composition
We saw a number of further changes to the Board through the year with 
Aaron Regent and James Cross retiring as Non-Executive Directors and 
Kelvin Dushnisky, Senior Executive Vice President, and Rick McCreary, 
Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, joining as Barrick 
nominee Non-Executive Directors mid-year. 
Following the expiry of the Offer Period to which ABG was subject during 
the latter half of the year, the Company is now in a position to review 
Board composition generally in order to build on the strengths and calibre 
of our existing Board members. In this regard, for a variety of personal 
reasons I have, after three years with ABG, decided not to stand for 
re-election as a Director at the forthcoming AGM and therefore will also 
step down as Acting Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Directors 
and ABG management for their support and friendship during my time 
with ABG. Mr Dushnisky will succeed me as Chairman to lead the Board 
and I am confident that he will provide strong leadership going forward.
Outlook
Looking forward to 2013, ABG will continue to look to optimise its 
portfolio and drive returns for all stakeholders through the implementation 
of the Operational Review. Undoubtedly the year will bring new 
challenges, but I am confident that the Company will meet any such 
challenges head on. Finally, on behalf of the Board I extend my gratitude 
to all of our employees for their hard work and commitment over the past 
12 months.
Derek Pannell, 
Acting Chairman of the Board
12 11 10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 00 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 91 90
Source: GFMS
INDUSTRY GOLD PRODUCTION
(metric tonnes)
2,000
2,200
2,400
2,600
2,800
3,000
Attributable gold 
production (Oz)
626,212  
Revenues (US$m) 
US$1,087  
Total dividend (US¢) 
US16.3 cents  
