 2 www.africanbarrickgold.com
Corporate headquarters,  
London, UK
Our office in London serves as ABG’s 
corporate headquarters and is the base 
for ABG’s Executive Directors and other 
members of the Senior Leadership Team, 
including the General Counsel and the 
Head of Corporate Development and 
Investor Relations.
Country office,  
Dar es Salaam, T anzania
Our office in Dar es Salaam serves as the 
primary interface with the government, 
in addition to being the logistical base in 
T anzania, which provides in-country support 
to our operations. Other functions located 
in this office include community relations, 
legal and communications.
Operations office,  
Johannesburg, South Africa
Our Johannesburg office is the regional 
base for capital projects, planning, technical 
services and administrative, finance, human 
resources and procurement functions for 
our operations.
Where we operate
Currently, all of ABG’ s mining operations are in T anzania. W e believe that T anzania 
possesses significant mining potential. Critically, it has an established legal and 
regulatory framework for mining companies and a history of political stability  
and democratically elected governments.
Group at a glance
A single focus: Gold in Africa
Bulyanhulu Buzwagi North Mara
Bulyanhulu is a high grade underground mine 
primarily accessed by a vertical shaft. The mine 
is a trackless operation using long-hole as its 
principal mining method, with alimak, 
conventional cut and fill and drift and fill the 
other primary mining methods. The process 
plant currently has the capacity to process 
an average of approximately 3,300 tonnes of 
ore per day (approximately 1.1 million tonnes 
per year) and produces both doré and copper/
gold concentrate. 
Bulyanhulu’ s life of mine is currently estimated 
to be over 25 years, based on its proven and 
probable gold reserves of 10,564,000 ounces.
Buzwagi is a low grade bulk deposit with a single 
large open pit. The mill is designed with a 
throughput capacity of 12,000 tonnes per day 
(approximately 4.4 million tonnes per year) and 
produces both doré and copper/gold concentrate. 
Buzwagi’s life of mine is currently estimated 
to be over 10 years, based on its proven and 
probable gold reserves of 2,697,000 ounces.
North Mara is a high grade open pit mine 
consisting of three open pit deposits: Nyabirama, 
Gokona and Nyabigena. The process plant has 
the capacity to process an average of 8,000 
tonnes per day (or approximately 2.8 million 
tonnes per year) and produces doré. 
North Mara’ s life of mine is estimated to be over 
10 years based on its proven and probable gold 
reserves of 3,012,000 ounces.
PG
 More information on page 24
PG
 More information on page 25
PG
 More information on page 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
Shareholder information Financial statements Overview Performance Governance
Tulawaka (70%) Tanzania exploration Kenya exploration
T ulawaka consists of a completed open pit with 
an underground access ramp located at the 
bottom of the pit. All capital and operating costs 
associated with the T ulawaka mine and net cash 
generated by the mine are divided on a 70:30 
basis between ABG and MDN Inc. The process 
plant started to operate using batch processing 
during 2012 and produces doré.
T ulawaka has proven and probable gold reserves 
of 16,000 ounces and is expected to close in 2013.
ABG’s Tanzanian exploration programme 
focuses primarily on advancing our organic 
growth projects in and around our existing 
operations, as well as advancing important 
regional exploration programmes at North Mara 
and Nyanzaga, our primary greenfield project in 
T anzania. Core brownfield exploration projects 
include: the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion, 
Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion, Gokona 
Expansion and Nyabirama Expansion. Where 
practicable, we also explore opportunities to 
develop satellite gold deposits, such as Golden 
Ridge, to increase production at our 
existing operations.
Through various joint venture arrangements, 
ABG holds an interest in a number of 
exploration licences over a land package in 
excess of 2,800km
2
 of the highly prospective 
Ndori Greenstone Belt in West Kenya. The 
licences contain multiple large-scale gold 
anomalies in areas of historic colonial mines 
and prospects. Sporadic historic and current 
exploration activities have identified a large 
number of targets that justify extensive 
follow-up. ABG intends to implement a 
systematic and focused gold exploration 
programme in 2013 and beyond to explore 
these opportunities.
PG
 More information on page 27
PG
 More information on page 28
PG
 More information on page 32
TANZANIA
UGANDA
Lake Victoria
Kampala
Tulawaka
Buzwagi
Bulyanhulu
Golden Ridge
Nyanzaga
West Kenya JV
Nairobi
Kisumu
Arusha
Mwanza
KENYA
North Mara
