 Company Overview
Tyman plc
04
Tym Tyman a plc
The Group is now a clearly focused 
building products company and a leader 
in the supply of components to the door 
and window industry worldwide. These 
characteristics should enable us to deliver 
sustainable margin improvement and 
long-term growth for shareholders.
Chairman’s statement
The past twelve months have been a period of signiﬁcant change 
for the Group, involving business disposals in the UK, acquisitions 
in the UK and US, a new organisational structure for our 
businesses outside of North America, all culminating in the change 
of name to Tyman plc.
In 2012 we completed the sales of Gall Thomson and our 
loss-making UK composite doors business. These successful 
disposals of non-core assets, combined with the acquisition of 
Unique Balance and Fab & Fix, means that the Group enters 2013 
as a focused supplier of components to the door and window 
industry worldwide.
At the operational level our new Divisional Managing Directors 
for grouphomesafe and Schlegel International have completed 
their ﬁrst full year in the business and the beneﬁts of the increased 
focus that our new organisational structure brings to the Group 
are becoming evident.
The change of the Group’s name to Tyman plc is another 
landmark in our development. For a number of years the name 
“Lupus Capital” promoted some confusion among the Group’s 
customers and suppliers, as well as with potential investors, in that 
it implied that the Group was a ﬁnancial institution, rather than a 
building products manufacturing business. Tyman is derived from 
the Old English word for “to turn” and is a simple, solid and more 
relevant expression of what the Group is about. 
Financial performance 
Performance for the continuing operations of the Group in 2012 
was creditable against a backdrop of difﬁcult markets worldwide. 
Group revenues increased by 5.8 per cent on a reported basis 
and were broadly ﬂat on a constant currency, like for like basis, 
after adjusting for recent acquisitions and for exchange rate 
movements. Underlying operating proﬁt before property provision 
releases increased by 3.6 per cent and underlying earnings per 
share increased by 16.9 per cent to 10.45 pence. 
These results, together with solid cash generation and conﬁdence 
in the medium term prospects for the Group, lead the Board to 
recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share, ahead of 
its commitment at the time of interim results of not less than 3.0 
pence per share. This makes a total dividend for the year of 4.5p, 
an increase of 28.6 per cent over last year.
Board and governance
The addition of Dr Angelika Westerwelle to the Board provides 
us with a more appropriate number of Non-executive Directors 
as the Group enters the next phase of its development. I am 
delighted to welcome Angelika to the Board and am sure her 
extensive and relevant experience in international manufacturing 
and in the development of medium sized businesses will be of 
great beneﬁt to Tyman.
The Board has continued its practice of holding Board meetings 
at operational locations on a regular basis and during 2012 met 
at Group sites in Sioux Falls (US), Gistel (Belgium) and Willenhall 
(UK). These visits allow the Board the opportunity to meet with 
local management and to see at ﬁrst hand the skills, expertise 
and energy of Group employees around the world.
While Tyman is presently traded on the AIM market of the London 
Stock Exchange, and therefore is not required to comply with 
the UK Corporate Governance code, the Board has taken the 
view that the Group should aspire to the corporate governance 
standard of companies listed on the Main Market. The Board is 
also committed to a programme of continuous improvement to 
the Group’s overall governance and risk management processes. 
As examples of this commitment, from 2013 the Board will 
implement a formal annual evaluation of performance and 
Jamie Pike Tyman plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
05
Company Overview
Not so long ago, if a homeowner wanted all of the hardware 
on their front door to match, they would have had to choose 
a white powder-coated ﬁnish. This was because handles 
and knockers were typically die-cast zinc and letterplates 
were fashioned from aluminium pressings. These materials 
were impossible to colour match unless sprayed with paint.
The Nu Mail was the ﬁrst die-cast zinc letterplate the 
UK market had seen. It could be electro-plated to 
match other door hardware exactly – ﬁrst in chrome, 
then in gold and bronze, and now six different ‘Hardex 
Electro’ ﬁnishes. It was the innovation that really 
established Fab & Fix on the journey to offering the 
ultimate in window and door hardware. T oday over 250 
products are available in perfectly matching ﬁnishes.
Spotlight on new developments
The Nu Mail Letterplate from Fab & Fix
the Group will implement a more structured internal audit 
function as part of a wider reassessment of the Group’s risk 
management framework. 
Following the completion of the strategic refocusing of our 
businesses and the renaming of the Group, the Board feels 
that this is the appropriate time for Tyman plc to move to the 
Main Market. The Board therefore intends, during the course of 
the next twelve months, to seek a primary listing on the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange and admission to the 
Premium Segment of the Ofﬁcial List. We will keep shareholders 
informed in this regard.
Outlook
Tyman has leading positions in many of its global niches and is 
backed by a strong balance sheet which will allow us to invest in 
our businesses both organically and through acquisition at a time 
when many competitors are capital constrained. The Group is now 
a clearly focused building products company and a leader in the 
supply of components to the door and window industry worldwide. 
These characteristics should position us to deliver margin 
improvement and long-term growth for shareholders.
Jamie Pike
Chairman
12 March 2013
grouphomesafe 32%
Amesbury 52%
Schlegel International 16%
2012 Revenue by sector
250
200
150
100
50
0
228.8
2012 2011
215.6
Revenue at constant 
exchange rates
£m
grouphomesafe 39%
Amesbury 50%
Schlegel International 11 %
2012 Operating proﬁt by sector
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
15 %
10%
5%
0%
25.1
2012 2011
Operating proﬁt and margin 
at constant exchange rates
23.5
£m
10.9% 11.0%
