 04 Company Overview
Chairman’s statement
Jamie Pike
The trading environment in the US  
and UK Building Products markets 
during 2011 proved to be as challenging 
as expected. However the continued 
focus of the Group on self help 
measures enabled further progress  
to be made as the Group moves 
towards recovery in its end markets.
Results from continuing operations
Total sales of Building Products in the year of £230.4 
million decreased by 8.8 per cent from the prior year 
(2010: £252.5 million). In constant currency terms, total 
sales decreased in the year by 7.6 per cent.
Despite our success in passing on pound for pound input 
cost increases, the lower volumes sold by the Building 
Products division in 2011 impacted both gross and 
operating margins. The Group’s gross profit margin 
decreased to 31.5 per cent from 32.9 per cent in 2010. 
Underlying operating profit decreased by 14.1 per cent to 
£22.4 million (2010: £26.1 million). Underlying earnings per 
share from continuing operations increased by 3 per cent 
to 9.04 pence (2010: 8.78 pence). 
During the year the Group refinanced its banking facilities 
into a new £110 million multicurrency term loan and a 
£30 million multicurrency working capital facility. This 
successful early refinancing of facilities gives Lupus a 
sound financial platform until March 2016 and provides 
the Group with more favourable terms, reduced costs and 
significantly enhanced flexibility. As at 31 December 2011, 
the Group’s underlying net debt was £91.2 million 
(2010: £94.7 million).
Board
There were no changes to the Board during the year.  
In accordance with best practice, the Board has agreed 
that each Director will voluntarily offer themselves for 
re-election at each Annual General Meeting that they are 
not required to retire from office. Accordingly, James 
Brotherton, Jamie Pike, Louis Eperjesi, Les Tench and 
Martin Towers will voluntarily offer themselves for 
re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. 
Dividends
The Group’s enhanced financial position following the 
disposal of Gall Thomson enables the Board to recommend 
a final dividend of 3.5 pence per share (2010: 2.0p per 
share), an increase of 75 per cent and covered 2.6 times by 
underlying earnings per share from continuing operations. 
The final dividend will absorb approximately £4.5 million of 
cash resources and is expected to be paid following the 
Annual General Meeting scheduled for 25 May 2012.
The increased dividend is a sign of our confidence in the 
Group’s improved financial position and prospects. Going 
forward, the Board intends to continue a progressive 
dividend policy taking into account the Group’s leverage, 
earnings growth potential and future expansion plans.
The Board has reviewed the Group’s dividend policy in 
the light of the Group’s altered profitability and cash flow 
characteristics. Going forward, the Board intends to target 
dividend cover of between 2.0–2.5x underlying EPS 
through the cycle.
The Group intends to resume interim dividend payments 
during 2012.
 
Overview
The disposal of Gall Thomson upon favourable terms marks 
the completion of the refocusing of Lupus as a supplier of 
components to the door and window industry worldwide. 
The Group now has significant financial flexibility to achieve 
its strategic goals and to accelerate the development of the 
Building Products division.
We believe that the Building Products division will continue 
to outperform its key markets in 2012 and beyond due to 
the Group’s relative financial strength following the disposal 
of Gall Thomson. Market conditions, however, remain 
challenging across all our markets.
In North America we are pleased with the new facility in 
Atlanta, Georgia as it comes on stream and the integration 
of Overland Products into the Group. 05
Hardware £62.1m
Foam sealing £41.6m
Balances £33.6m
Pile sealing £26.9m
Reinforcer £22.9m
Extrusions £22.6m
Composite 
doors £13.0m
Other £7.8m
Sales by product
Total Building Products
Company
Overview
Business
Review
Corporate
Governance
Financial
Statements
Outlook
We believe that the Group will continue to outperform its 
key markets in 2012 and beyond due in part to the Group’s 
relative financial strength following the disposal of Gall 
Thomson.
During the course of 2012 the Group intends to change  
its name and branding to reflect the focus of Lupus as a 
supplier of components to the door and window industry 
worldwide. A resolution to permit the Board to make this 
change will be proposed at the AGM and we will keep 
shareholders informed of progress in this regard.
The Board believes the Group is now well positioned 
for the future.
Jamie Pike
Chairman
20 April 2012
Lockguard and High  
Security Handle
The Lockguard and High Security 
Handles have been developed 
specifically to address the security 
risks associated with snapping of 
euro profile cylinders. Suitable for 
upgrading security on new and 
existing doors the High Security 
Handle meets the new TS 007 testing 
standard as a two star product. 
The handle shields the cylinder 
behind the backplate, giving access 
only to the key slot and, when used 
with ERA’s Kitemarked anti bump 
cylinder, the door lock is protected 
against all forms of cylinder attack, 
and accumulates the TS 007 three 
stars. The High Security Handle is 
manufactured from forged 
aluminium for strength and the 
curvature of the backplate gives 
increased resistance against mole 
grip attacks on the door.
