 Tyman plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
10
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Louis Eperjesi
Chief Executive Officer
This has been a further year of transformation for 
Tyman during which we have made significant 
operating, financial and strategic progress across 
each of our Divisions. 
2014 Priorities
Our key priorities for 2014 are as follows:
1. Completion of the integration of Amesbury and Truth into a 
single customer facing organisation, along with delivery of our 
revised synergy targets.
2. Evaluation of our footprint in our developed markets to ensure 
that it is appropriate for the medium term needs of the business, 
taking into account opportunities for near shoring of those 
products best made or sourced close to the point of 
consumption.
3. Continuing to encourage strong communication, consistency 
of approach and standards of excellence across each of the 
divisions. For our end customer, wherever they are located, this 
should mean the availability of a differentiated product offering 
at an appropriate price, delivered to specification, on time and 
in full. 
4. Key financial objectives for each of our divisions in 2014 remain 
centred on sustained margin improvement and cash generation 
along with continued growth in the Group’s average return 
on capital. We expect developed markets will see pricing 
opportunities arise as markets and volumes recover.
5. Continued investment in and improvement of the businesses; 
in particular in the areas of new product development, people, 
supply chain and capital projects with a focus on automation 
and lean manufacturing to ensure we differentiate ourselves 
from our competitors.
6. Supplementing our organic and self-help initiatives through 
our active acquisition programme, prioritising European 
markets where we currently have a limited hardware range and 
emerging markets where market position can best be obtained 
through acquisition.
The acquisition of Truth, combined with the swift integration into 
Amesbury under a unified management team, provides the Group 
with a strong platform for further growth in North America. Since 
the year end we have completed the acquisition of Vedasil Brasil, 
giving us a seal manufacturing platform in South America for the 
first time. 
The current year has started well and in line with expectations 
across each of the divisions. Continued recovery in our key end 
markets, combined with share gains and the delivery of further 
synergy benefits in North America underpin our confidence for 
the future. Tyman plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
11
10%
8%
9%
7%
6%
5%
7.2%
0.3%
0.8%
0.1%
2012 Impairment Fab & Fix Truth 2013 Underlying
operating proﬁt
Return on average capital employed bridge
%
9.0%
0.6%
Since acquisition In 2013
25%
15%
20%
10%
5%
0%
9.9%
18.1%
20.4%
13.7%
Overland Fab & Fix Truth
Returns on acquisition investment
%
13.7%
14.8%
24 month target
post acquisition
Strategic report
Directors’ report
Financial statements
Outlook
The current year has started well and in line with our expectations 
across each of the Divisions. Currency movements are expected to 
have a greater impact on reported numbers in 2014 than in recent 
years however continued recovery in our key end markets, combined 
with market share gains and the delivery of further synergy benefits 
in North America, underpin our confidence for the future. 
We expect continued improvement in our North American markets 
this year with new build in the US forecast to increase further, 
supported by a continued gradual acceleration in repair and 
remodelling expenditure. The Canadian market is forecast to be flat 
in 2014, which would be a significant improvement compared with 
the decline seen in 2013. Delivery of our synergy targets, together 
with opportunities for market share gain should lead to further 
growth and good momentum in North America this year. 
The first two months have seen extreme weather conditions in 
North America, however despite this our businesses have traded 
ahead of the equivalent period in 2012, giving us confidence that 
once weather conditions improve, the recovery in the overall market 
seen in 2013 should continue.
Coming into this year, there appears to be greater confidence in 
the sustainability of the recovery in the UK and, for the first time 
in a number of years, we are forecasting growth for the UK market. 
In 2014, we will aim to increase Grouphomesafe’s market share 
through organic growth and new product introductions, together 
with a more structured approach to the distribution market. The 
first two months have seen continued good momentum in our 
UK businesses. 
For Schlegel International, 2014 should see an improved 
performance as the investments we have made to date start 
to deliver. Material profit improvement however will depend on 
significantly increased volumes, which in turn will depend on a 
sustained recovery in European markets, which are not expected 
to come through until at least 2015. Trading in the first two months 
is marginally ahead of the equivalent period last year. We expect 
continued growth in Australasia, South East Asia and Brazil where 
the acquisition of Vedasil Brasil gives us a market leading position 
and local manufacture for the first time.
Louis Eperjesi
Chief Executive Officer
11 March 2014
