 10
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
2014 has seen another year of good operational and financial 
progress for T yman with continued top line growth and margin 
expansion in our two largest Divisions – AmesburyTruth and ERA. 
The integration of Amesbury and Truth has now completed and we  
are moving forward with the next phase of the transformation of 
AmesburyTruth into a world class manufacturing business through 
rationalisation of the North American footprint.
Schlegel International has again seen difficult end markets in 
Continental Europe; however we continue to regard Europe as a 
significant medium term opportunity for the Group and have made 
further progress with the restructuring of the Division.
The integration of Vedasil into our South American business has 
progressed well and the business has performed strongly in the first  
10 months of ownership. 
2015 has started with order book levels ahead of 2014 and in line with 
our expectations across each of the Divisions. We continue to improve 
our manufacturing efficiency and cost base and expect to see further 
growth in our key end markets of the UK and North America, enhanced 
by a number of new products that will come to market this year in each 
of the Divisions.
2015 Priorities
Our key priorities for 2015 are a continuation of the themes we 
developed in 2014 and include:
1. Optimisation of our footprint in each of the Divisions with a 
particular focus on AmesburyTruth where we will start the five year 
project to rationalise our North American footprint. 
 Our aim is to ensure that each Division’s footprint is appropriate for 
the medium term needs of the business, taking into account 
opportunities for near shoring of those products best made or 
sourced close to the point of consumption.
2. Continuing to encourage strong communication, consistency of 
approach and standards of excellence across each of the Divisions. 
For our end customer, wherever they are located, this should mean 
the availability of a differentiated product offering at an 
appropriate price, delivered to specification, on time and in full. 
For 2014 we set ourselves six key priorities to deliver our overall 
strategy.  Here’s how we did:
2014 Priority Progress
Integration of 
Amesbury and 
Truth
Completion of integration and  
launch of AmesburyTruth.
Footprint 
evaluation
Good progress across each of the 
Divisions with evaluation of footprint 
requirements and announced the North 
American Footprint rationalisation.
Consistency and 
communication 
across Divisions
Formalised processes for sharing best 
practice in terms of supply chain, NPD, 
key account management and 
operations and developed cross selling 
opportunities for Group products 
worldwide.
Financial  
objectives
Continued margin improvement 
demonstrated by the Group along with 
growth in the Group’s ROCE.  
Investment in the balance sheet led to 
lower than normal cash conversion. 
Investment in the 
business
Launched a number of new products 
into our markets in the year, 
strengthened the operating teams in 
each of the Divisions, provided greater 
focus to supply chain and continued our 
planned investment in capital projects 
with gross capital expenditure running 
at 1.43x depreciation.
Acquisition 
programme
Acquisition of Vedasil successfully 
completed in the year and a number of 
potential acquisition candidates 
engaged with across a variety of 
markets.
  11
Tyman plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
3. Key financial objectives for each of our Divisions remain centred on 
sustained margin improvement and cash generation along with 
continued growth in the Group’s average return on capital. We 
expect developed markets will offer pricing opportunities in 2015  
as markets and volumes recover.
4. Continued investment in and improvement of the businesses; in 
particular in the areas of new product development, people, supply 
chain – where we intend to consolidate our Divisional sourcing 
arrangements in the Far East – and capital projects with a focus on 
automation and lean manufacturing to ensure we differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors and continue to take market share.
5. Supplementing our organic and self-help initiatives through our 
active acquisition programme, prioritising European markets where 
we currently have a niche seals and limited hardware range, and 
emerging markets where market position can best be obtained 
through acquisition.
Outlook
The current year has started in line with our expectations across each of 
the Divisions. At the end of February, order book levels in each of the 
Divisions are running ahead of 2014. Currency movements will again 
have a significant impact on reported numbers in 2015, however the 
strengthening of the US Dollar relative to international currencies, if 
sustained, should mean that reported profitability is enhanced relative 
to 2014. 
We expect further improvement in our North American markets  
in 2015 with continued growth in new build in the United States, 
supported by the sustained gradual acceleration in repair and 
remodelling expenditure. We expect the Canadian market will contract 
further in 2015 as housing starts continue to moderate; however we still 
intend to take additional market share, in line with our strategic goal.
The UK market is expected to show further growth in 2015, albeit 
probably at a slower rate than we saw in 2013 and 2014. In 2015, we 
have a number of new product introductions for ERA coming to market 
and we continue to explore opportunities in distribution where we 
remain relatively underweight. 
For Schlegel International, following the closure of the European 
Industrial Products business and the conclusion of our incremental 
investment programme, 2015 should see an improved performance. 
Material profit improvement, however, remains dependent on 
significantly increased European volumes which, given the 
macroeconomic environment, we do not expect to come through  
in 2015. 
Across Europe as a whole we expect to see broadly flat markets in  
2015 with some isolated pockets of growth. We expect continued 
improvement in Australasia and South East Asian markets and, while 
the overall Brazilian macroeconomic backdrop is subdued, construction 
markets are expected to show further growth in 2015. We are well 
positioned in the Brazilian market and are developing distribution into 
adjacent geographies.
Louis Eperjesi
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2015
2015 GEOGRAPHICAL FOOTPRINT
NORTH AMERICA UK & CONTINENTAL EUROPE ASIA & AUSTRALIA
Manufacturing
Sourcing/Distribution
2014/15 Developments
Sioux Falls surplus property sale São Paolo exit
Covington exit (lease to 2019) 2015 Ontario disposal & exit
European Industrial Products disposal and exit Group & AmesburyTruth corporate office moves
Strategic report
Corporate  
governance report Financial statements
