 Business Review
Tyman plc
06
Tyman plc
2013 will see further difﬁcult markets, 
however we are committed to our well 
deﬁned plans to invest in our businesses, 
take market share, deliver further margin 
improvement, increase returns on capital 
and drive earnings for shareholders.
2012 saw the completion of a fundamental reshaping of Tyman 
plc along with creditable operational progress against a difﬁcult 
market backdrop.
The Group reported an increase in revenues in the year from 
continuing operations of 5.8 per cent. On a constant currency, 
like for like basis – after adjusting for recent acquisitions and for 
exchange rate movements – revenues were broadly in line with 
2012. Underlying operating proﬁt* increased by 3.6 per cent in the 
year to £23.0 million. Underlying earnings per share* increased 
by 16.9 per cent to 10.45 pence. 
These results reﬂect the initial beneﬁts that are being derived from 
the fundamental reshaping of the Group that has taken place over 
the past three years. 
* Before property provision releases.
2012 divisional performance 
Collectively our Amesbury business performed well in the year and 
took market share, with a particularly strong performance by our 
sealing systems business. Margins in the division in the year were 
impacted by some of the investments we made, most notably 
the start-up of our new Atlanta plant and the ﬁxed overhead of 
the Montreal facility acquired as part of the Unique Balance 
transaction; neither of which should repeat in 2013. Overall, on 
a constant currency, like for like basis, Amesbury revenues grew 
by 5.0 per cent in the year to £112.0 million. 
In the UK, grouphomesafe has seen further overall market 
contraction during 2012. Like for like revenues from continuing 
operations in the UK in the year decreased by 5.5 per cent and 
Underlying operating proﬁt decreased by 1.1 per cent.
However, once the acquisition of Fab & Fix is taken into account, 
reported revenues from continuing operations increased by 3.8 per 
cent to £73.3 million, Underlying operating proﬁt increased by 
10.0 per cent to £9.0 million and Underlying operating margins 
increased to 12.2 per cent. By comparison, the reported 
Underlying operating margins for UK element of the Building 
Products segment in 2011 was 8.7 per cent, demonstrating the 
transformational impact of the corporate activity undertaken in 
the UK business during the year.
Schlegel International had a difﬁcult trading year with revenues 
down 8.6 per cent and Underlying operating margins decreasing 
from 8.2 to 6.7 per cent. In Continental Europe, which remains a 
tough trading environment, we have addressed the ﬁxed cost base 
through the closure of our Building Products facility in Gistel, 
Belgium transferring production to the UK and Spain. During 2013 
we will take further steps to enhance the efﬁciency of Schlegel 
International in Europe.
Further aﬁeld, Australian markets contracted in the year, however 
we successfully grew the business through a combination of 
market share gain and new product introductions. Aligned with 
this, our Brazilian and Singaporean operations have shown 
continued growth. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review Louis Eperjesi Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Tyman plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
Company Overview
10.0%
8.0%
6.0%
4.0%
2.0%
0%
7.7%
2012 2011
Return on capital employed
Underlying operating proﬁt as a percentage of 
the 12 month average capital employed.
7.3%
Amesbury had previously faced a portfolio gap. Unable 
to sell high-volume door sweeps to major door Original 
Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), the company was 
missing a key sales opportunity. T o enable the business 
to become a one-stop solutions provider for key door 
OEMs and offer all components involved with entry-door 
systems, Amesbury invested in a 32,000 sq ft state-
of-the-art manufacturing facility in Covington, GA. 
The expanded capabilities of its new Covington, GA, 
plant have allowed Amesbury to meet the needs of more 
customers – and to potentially triple its total extrusion lines 
to keep up with demand. The plant has helped generate 
new extruded product business with leading OEMs such as 
Endura Products, Therma-Tru, and Trinity Feather River.
Spotlight on growth
Expanded capabilities with new 
manufacturing facility
Outlook for 2013
Across all of our businesses, alongside our well established 
self-help initiatives, we are seeking to drive through a consistency 
of approach and of excellence. This means for customers a 
differentiated product offering at appropriate pricing, delivered 
to speciﬁcation, on time and in full. Over time we believe this 
consistency of approach will deliver a signiﬁcant and sustainable 
improvement in the underlying quality and proﬁtability of 
the Group. 
In a number of our markets, the general macro-economic 
environment remains challenging. This in turn has a dampening 
effect on consumer conﬁdence and on the willingness of the 
end-consumer to invest in their properties which means that 
organic growth will predominantly come from expansion of our 
existing market shares. We will achieve this expansion by 
investment in our businesses at a time when a number of 
competitors are capital constrained and by delivering the highest 
quality of customer service and fulﬁlment along with competitively 
priced products that reﬂect the value add of our offer.
The housing market in North America appears more robust today 
than at any point in the past ﬁve years and 2013 has started well 
for Amesbury with order intake ahead of 2012. Provided repair 
and remodelling expenditure follows historic patterns, we would 
expect to see further growth for Amesbury in 2013 and should be 
well positioned for 2014 and beyond.
5
0
–5
–10
(0.3)%
2012 2011
Like-for-like revenue growth
Like-for-like revenue growth – year on year 
revenue growth excluding the effect of 
acquisitions and disposals.
(7.0)%
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
2012 2011
On time delivery rate
On time delivery rate – proportion of customer 
orders that are delivered in full within the 
customer required time-slot.
93.0%
90.7% Business Review
Tyman plc
08
60.0%
50.0%
40.0%
30.0%
20.0%
10.0%
0%
45.2%
2012 2011
Return on controllable 
capital employed
45.3%
Underlying operating proﬁt as a 
percentage of controllable capital employed.
10.0%
8.0%
6.0%
4.0%
2.0%
0%
7.7%
2012 2011
Return on capital employed
Underlying operating proﬁt as a percentage of 
the 12 month average capital employed.
7.3%
12.0%
10.0%
8.0%
6.0%
4.0%
2.0%
0%
11.0%
2012 2011
Return on sales
Underlying operating proﬁt as a 
percentage of revenue.
10.8%
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued
The corporate activity undertaken in the UK in 2012 has 
transformed our grouphomesafe business. During 2013, while we 
expect the overall market will continue to contract, we will aim to 
take further market share through organic growth, new product 
introductions and growing the Fab & Fix offering still further.
For Schlegel International, European trading conditions are 
expected to remain difﬁcult for some time to come, however the 
rebalancing of our European footprint gives us the right platform 
for the manufacture and distribution of sealing products in Europe 
going forward. We expect Australasian markets to be more robust 
in 2013 and we will continue to promote our product offering in 
emerging markets – with South America and South East Asia 
being particular focuses in 2013. 
Growth acceleration
With limited market growth expected in the UK and Continental 
Europe in the near term and the full market recovery in the US 
yet to occur, we need to allocate our resources carefully in order 
to drive future returns. With this in mind, we will focus on ﬁve 
principal areas in 2013:
1. Acceleration of our new product development programme with 
the prioritisation of those product applications and markets 
that can contribute meaningfully to the Group in the near term.
2. Investment in our existing businesses and people and in our 
supply chain to ensure that we can deliver the best quality 
product at the appropriate price point in line with our 
differentiated marketing philosophy.
3. Expansion of our emerging markets presence, through 
accelerated investment in sales and technical resource in the 
key targeted territories.
4. Further improvements to our customer service programmes, 
our marketing and our communications to ensure that we 
understand the needs of our customers, communicate our 
capabilities and deliver on our promises.
5. Supplementing our organic initiatives through an active 
acquisition programme, prioritising the North American market 
where we believe there remains a structural cyclical opportunity 
and those emerging markets where market position may be most 
easily obtained through acquisition. Following the disposal of Gall 
Thomson we have a strong balance sheet and have a number of 
further acquisition opportunities in the pipeline.  Conclusion
Tyman plc has delivered a creditable set of results in 2012 against 
a backdrop of difﬁcult markets with good growth in Underlying 
operating proﬁt and earnings. These results, together with solid 
cash generation and conﬁdence in the medium term prospects for 
the Group, mean we are able to recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 
3.5p per ordinary share a total dividend for the year of 4.5p. 
Order intake in the early weeks of the new ﬁnancial year is ahead 
of the same period last year, with strong order intake seen in 
North America and satisfactory performance across other markets.
2013 will see further difﬁcult markets, however we are committed 
to our well deﬁned plans to invest in our businesses, take market 
share, deliver further margin improvement, increase returns on 
capital and drive earnings for shareholders. We remain optimistic 
that the Group will make further progress in 2013.
Louis Eperjesi
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
12 March 2013
Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Tyman plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09
Company Overview
The world-renowned Q-Lon seals, whilst mostly used 
in housing, have the performance to be used in many 
applications. In São Paulo, Construtora Líder built a new 
high rise block on Street Leopoldo, designed by Henrique 
Cambiaghi in contemporary style. All the sliding windows 
and doors in the building were manufactured by Alubrás 
Esquadrias de Alumínio and used Q-Lon 48750 seals. 
Spotlight on performance
International application
Enhancing margins and improving returns
Our growth will be funded through our ongoing initiatives 
to enhance margins and improve returns. Margin management 
will be a key objective for each of our divisions in 2013. Alongside 
margin expansion we will target signiﬁcant growth in the Group’s 
return on capital in future years which we will achieve through 
management of the supply chain, continued cost discipline and 
critical analysis of investment opportunities.
We will continue to focus on full recovery of material and other 
input cost inﬂation across all our businesses in line with our track 
record over the past three years. We will accomplish this through a 
combination of optimising prices, driving down supply chain costs 
and delivering productivity gains. 
In addition, we are putting in place long-term programmes that 
will secure the most cost effective and efﬁcient end to end supply 
chain for the Group. We will achieve this through a combination of 
measures:
 continuing to move production and procurement to lower cost 
countries when appropriate; 
 further development and extension of lean manufacturing 
techniques across the Group;
 continued rationalisation of our third party supplier base; and 
 increased near shoring of those products that are 
most economically made or sourced close to the point 
of consumption.
