 Ubisense Group Plc Annual Report 2013 10
Our value proposition is, and remains, our main 
growth driver as customers are seeing clear return 
on investment from increased operational efficiencies 
and reduced costs in their operations.
Business observations:
 » We continue to see location as a key 
asset attribute for many critical business 
processes and the focal point for integration 
of enterprise data.
 » In our telecoms and utility markets, new 
mobile-based capabilities are realising 
business opportunities for software products 
in field operations, where real-time data 
access and updates demonstrate improved 
business efficiency for the mobile workforce.
 » In our manufacturing markets, we see 
opportunities to penetrate upstream 
and downstream around initial points 
of deployment as customers recognise 
the value of location.
Our value proposition is, and remains, our 
main growth driver as customers are seeing 
clear return on investment from increased 
operational efficiencies and reduced costs 
in their operations.
Customer momentum
In the year, the growth momentum in our 
Solutions business continued, as we extended 
our product sales into our existing client base 
and leveraged these existing relationships. 
Our focus remained on our priority markets in 
high-value manufacturing and network operators, 
where we delivered year-on-year growth in 
revenues of 18%. Our RTLI solutions have 
strengthened our customer relationships as we 
continue to innovate and offer a growing range 
of applications to support their drive towards 
end-to-end location intelligence solutions 
across their whole business.
Ubisense products and solutions have now 
been installed in eight out of the top 15 auto 
manufacturers and we continue to penetrate 
the global automotive market with installations 
at more new plants in North America, Europe 
and South Korea. Crucially, in the year, our 
RTLS solution was authorised for certification 
for sale into Japan which, along with the 
Chief Executive’s review
 
Overview
The Group made exceptional progress in 2013, 
delivering on our stated strategy. In the year, 
we decided to bring together all of our leading 
location-based technologies into one converged 
offering in order to meet the increasing demands 
of our customers. Our single RTLI business 
allows the Company to benefit from the 
emerging trends of smart devices and the 
growth in cloud technologies.
The implementation of this strategy has 
allowed us to achieve pleasing growth in the 
year. We experienced growing awareness and 
increased deployment with a number of large 
manufacturers and network operators.
Our strategic objectives are as follows:
 » continue to evolve as a solutions-based 
business with a services capability, 
developing IP licensed on perpetual 
or term basis to customers;
 » develop additional software licence offerings 
for specific business problems that deliver 
ROI to customers and represent upsell 
opportunities and additional maintenance 
and support revenue;
 » focus direct business on manufacturing, 
telecoms and utility enterprises – particularly 
automotive manufacturing, cable television 
and triple play operators as well as gas and 
electric utilities;
 » drive step and repeat business in automotive 
manufacturing across new site locations 
where we have demonstrated business 
value in initial deployments;
 » use channel partners to reach other vertical 
markets at low cost of sale with specific 
domain know-how and market access; and
 » continue to innovate and provide a 
rewarding work environment to attract 
and retain talented staff.
Implementing intelligent 
concepts through the 
development of unique 
IP is core to our 
product offering Strategic report
Ubisense Group Plc Annual Report 2013 11
 
We continue to look for acquisition opportunities 
to enhance our market penetration, geographical 
footprint and product portfolio.”
Additionally we have focused on integration 
with other enterprise system platforms such 
as SAP, and this makes for more effective 
deployment for our customers as integration 
timescales and costs are much lower.
Conclusion
By continuing to invest in our product suite 
and working in close co-operation with our 
customers we have established a strong 
platform for growth and are in a good position 
to build on our successes. We look forward 
to the future with confidence.
Richard Green
Chief Executive Officer
24 March 2014
Strategic partnerships
Substantial progress was achieved with our 
strategic partners Atlas Copco, Google and our 
partnership with the Daifuku Corporation in Japan.
We remain committed to developing 
partnerships that deliver differentiated 
value propositions, leveraging each other’s 
expertise and relationships to provide 
substantial benefit for our joint customers.
Products
Implementing intelligent concepts through 
the development of unique IP is core to our 
product offering and differentiates us from 
our competitors. We continue to invest heavily 
in research and development as well as extending 
our collaboration with university and research 
institute partners.
We have continued with the consolidation 
of current products into more market focused 
application suites such as Smart Factory, our 
flagship, end-to-end manufacturing solution. 
Feedback has been very positive and we are 
ultimately moving to a single enterprise location 
intelligence platform to address all our 
customers’ requirements.
development of the Smart Warehouse System 
by Daifuku for its large customer base, has 
opened up a large number of new opportunities 
and potential new customers.
During the year, we saw repeat orders from our 
existing customer base and won several new 
solutions contracts including major strategic wins 
at customers such as VW, Honda and Toyota 
and we have extended our installations at existing 
customers including Airbus, Aston Martin, 
BMW, Cummins, Daimler and John Deere.
We continue to deliver into telecoms and utility 
network operators, servicing both existing and 
new customers. We remain committed to this 
customer base and strongly believe that we will 
be able to further sell our enhanced RTLI solutions 
to them as a trusted supplier. We are pleased 
to report new customer wins with Swisscom, 
Central Hudson, Piedmont Gas and Kepco.
Acquisitions
Geoplan was acquired for a maximum 
consideration of £3.4 million, with initial 
consideration of £2.3 million and £1.1 million 
being deferred. Of the initial consideration, 
£0.6 million consists of cash and the remainder 
Ubisense shares. Of the deferred consideration, 
£0.2 million has been paid as at 24 March 2014.
The acquisition of Geoplan contributed £0.7 million 
to revenues in the year. We are integrating the 
company into our existing business and 
operations are being consolidated, providing 
us with cross-selling opportunities and a strong 
presence in Japan to open up the manufacturing 
market there. We are delighted with the progress 
we have made so far in both Japan and South 
Korea and will look to take advantage of the 
vast opportunities this acquisition has brought 
to us across Asia.
We continue to look for acquisition opportunities 
to enhance our market penetration, geographical 
footprint and product portfolio.
