 Business review
Ubisense Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2012
15
This was reflected in the growing awareness and 
deployment of our leading location solutions to an 
increasing number of top tier automotive manufacturers 
providing good momentum on our growth strategy.
Our value proposition is one of our main growth drivers 
as customers are seeing clear returns on investment from 
increased operational efficiencies leading to reduced 
operating costs in their manufacturing operations.
Customer Momentum
The market opportunity for Ubisense is ever present. Within 
RTLS, we have continued to grow the business by extending 
the model in our priority G7 markets, with a particular 
focus on high value manufacturing where we delivered 
year-on-year growth in revenues of 57.0%. Our strategy in 
manufacturing has been to enter the customer with a single 
application and then extend the range of applications as they 
increasingly look for an end-to-end location solution.
We have now been installed in 8 out of the top 15 auto 
manufacturers and we continue to penetrate the global 
automotive market with new pilot installations at more 
plants in North America, Europe and further adoptions in 
South Korea.
During the year, we saw new RTLS contracts including major  
strategic wins at AGCO, Astrium, BAE and Hyundai. In addition 
we established over a dozen new installations at customers 
such as Renault, Smart and John Deere and extended our 
installations at existing customers including Airbus, Aston 
Martin, BMW, Continental, Cummins, Daimler and Eurocopter.
In the Geospatial division we are pleased to report new 
customer wins with Cogeco, IGC, Sovernet, Cambridge 
Water, SESW, American Electric Power and DREWAG/ENSO.
New contract wins and managed services contract 
renewals with major telecoms and utility companies 
including Exelon, HLBG and Swisscom have continued 
to build on the growth of the Geospatial division and 
are consistent with our plans for organic growth in both 
established and emerging markets.
Acquisitions
The successful acquisitions of Realworld OO Systems Ltd 
and Integrated Mapping Solutions Inc in 2011 contributed 
£2.1 million to revenues in 2012. These businesses are 
now fully integrated into our existing business and have 
consolidated and extended our customer base. Research 
and development and marketing activities have been 
repatriated and consolidated back into the UK, giving rise 
to a reorganisation cost of £0.4 million.
Strategic Partnerships
Substantial progress was achieved with our strategic partner 
Atlas Copco, now with more than 40 installations deployed. 
We have also entered into new partnerships with the Daifuku 
Corporation and Geoplan in Japan that are helping with 
deployment of our RTLS products into the Asian market.
Our partnership with industrial automation experts, ATS 
Global, also saw significant progress with a maiden 
installation with the UK’s largest manufacturer. This 
complementary partnership enables Ubisense to leverage 
ATS Global’s unrivalled expertise in Manufacturing 
Execution Systems (MES) whilst helping ATS ‘location 
enable’ its solutions to afford manufacturing customers  
a more compelling combined offering.
We remain committed to developing strong partnerships 
that deliver differentiated value propositions which are 
beneficial for both our customers and our partners.
Products
We have continued to invest in research and development 
in both divisions resulting in a consolidation of current 
products into more market focused application suites such 
as our flagship, end-to-end manufacturing solution, the 
Smart Factory System and our netSolutions product for the 
telecommunications market. Feedback has continued to be 
very positive and we look forward to introducing these new 
application suites in 2013 and extending our order book.
Conclusion
By working in close co-operation with our customers we 
have established a strong platform for growth and are in a 
good position to build on our successes. We look forward 
to the future with confidence.
Richard Green
Chief Executive Officer
18th March 2013
Chief Executive’s review
We remain committed to developing 
strong partnerships that deliver 
differentiated value propositions.
Strategic Partners 16
The results are encouraging: 
revenue and margins  
both increased.
16
Ubisense Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2012
Ubisense enters 2013 with increasing 
momentum in the business. We are 
well placed for growth.
Gordon Campbell
Chief Financial Officer
