 Ubisense Group Plc Annual Report 2013 2
The necessary investments and efforts we have made 
have allowed Ubisense to experience solid growth 
through major new strategic client wins, as the use of 
real-time location intelligence solutions is becoming 
increasingly widespread through many industries.
The necessary investments and progress we 
have made have allowed Ubisense to experience 
solid growth through major new strategic client 
wins, as the use of real-time location intelligence 
solutions is becoming increasingly widespread 
through many industries. Our year-end order 
book is up 75.5% year on year to £17.9 million 
– a significant achievement – and this continues 
to provide us with good revenue visibility 
going forward.
We have also delivered excellent progress 
and further market traction in the conversion 
of our consulting services customers into 
RTLI solutions customers. Our market-leading 
RTLI solutions offering is benefiting from the 
acceleration in enterprise acceptance as it allows 
customers across high-value manufacturing, 
utility and telecommunication sectors to achieve 
substantial improvements in efficiency and cost 
savings. Our reputation with all our customers 
continues to be one of value, reliability and 
exceptional service.
Our aim is to deliver a single enterprise location 
intelligence platform to address all of our customer 
base and target markets.
Current trading and outlook
In the period since the year end, trading has 
been in line with the Board’s expectations. 
Ubisense has entered 2014 with increasing 
momentum in the business and we are 
extremely well positioned to capitalise 
on the opportunities we see.
Introduction
2013 was a busy year for the Group, driving 
forward our aim to be synonymous with enterprise 
location intelligence. We have seen significant 
developments in our strategy to transform 
our business to a single Real-time Location 
Intelligence (RTLI) solution, fully leveraging 
our product IP across our customer base. 
To strengthen this further and expand our 
global footprint, on 3 December 2013 we 
completed the acquisition of the Geoplan 
Interworks K.K. (“Geoplan”) group of companies.
We are still in the early stages of the integration 
process but I am delighted with the progress to 
date and am excited by the potential we see in 
Asia over the next few years.
Overview
Group revenue increased by 11.2% to 
£27.0 million and we achieved an adjusted 
EBITDA of £1.1 million. The Group’s gross profit 
was £9.2 million, representing a gross margin 
of 34.2%. The Group has a robust balance 
sheet with net assets of £19.4 million, including 
cash and cash equivalents of £4.0 million.
During 2013 we experienced continued 
momentum across the business as we migrated 
to an RTLI solutions focused business, through 
the strengthening of key customer relationships, 
acquisition of new customers, improved market 
reach and our approach to product management. 
We have also ensured that our resources are 
fully focused on delivering our leading location 
intelligence technology for markets where 
we add the most value.
Chairman’s statement
 
Our aim is to deliver a 
single enterprise location 
intelligence platform to 
address all our customer 
base and target markets Overview
Ubisense Group Plc Annual Report 2013 3
 
Our market-leading RTLI solutions offering is benefiting 
from the acceleration in enterprise acceptance as it 
allows customers across high-value manufacturing, 
utility and telecommunication sectors to achieve 
substantial improvements in efficiency and cost savings.”
We will continue to pursue growth both 
organically and through acquisitions that 
align with our strategic objectives, enhance 
our offering and deliver value for our shareholders. 
Although the world economic recovery is 
still in an early stage, we are able to provide 
market-leading innovative solutions for our 
customers and we begin 2014 with a robust 
order book and pipeline which gives us 
confidence for the future. 
Conclusion
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
our customers, partners and employees for 
their support in making 2013 such a strong 
year for the Ubisense Group. I look ahead 
with confidence for the 2014 financial year.
Andy Hopper, CBE
Chairman
24 March 2014
