 Overview
03
Ubisense Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2012
Introduction
I am pleased to report Ubisense’s second full year of results as a 
listed company, for the year ended 31 December 2012. This has 
been a crucial year for the Group, where we have seen significant 
developments within both of our operating divisions.
Overview
Group revenue increased by 2.1% to £24.3 million and we achieved an 
Adjusted EBITDA of £1.2 million. Gross profit increased to £9.6 million, 
representing an improvement in gross margin to 39.5%. The Group 
has a robust balance sheet with Shareholder Funds of £18.9 million, 
including net cash of £2.7 million. 
We have continued the strong momentum this year in both our RTLS and 
Geospatial divisions, through the strengthening of key customer relationships, 
acquisition of new customers, improved market reach and our approach to 
product management. We have ensured that our resources are fully focused 
on delivering products for markets where we add the most value.
Our RTLS division has experienced considerable growth, through 
major new strategic client wins, as the use of location driven 
manufacturing solutions is becoming increasingly widespread 
through many industries. We remain confident that the Company can 
capitalise on the considerable opportunities we see in the high value 
manufacturing sector and this will continue to drive our growth.
In our Geospatial division, we have also delivered excellent progress 
and further market traction. Our Geospatial product offering continues 
to gain acceptance in the telecoms and utilities markets, extending our 
reputation with customers that value reliability and exceptional service. 
Current trading and outlook
In the period since the year end, current trading has been in line with the 
Board’s expectations. Ubisense enters 2013 with increasing momentum 
in the business and we intend to capitalise on the opportunities ahead. 
We will continue to pursue opportunities for growth both organically and 
through acquisitions that align with our strategic objectives, enhance our 
offering and deliver value for our shareholders. 
Although the world economic outlook remains uncertain, our ability to 
provide innovative solutions for major customers in manufacturing markets 
remains strong and we begin 2013 with a robust order book and pipeline.
Awards
The Group has again received a number of awards during the year, 
including two prestigious Queen’s Awards for the first time for its 
outstanding and sustained achievement in developing innovative 
products and solutions, and applying them to create significant 
international commercial success.
Conclusion
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our customers, partners and 
employees for their support in making 2012 such a strong year for the 
Ubisense Group. I look ahead with confidence for the 2013 financial year.
Andy Hopper
Chairman
18th March 2013
2
Prestigious Awards
Ubisense management team 
accepting the Queen’s Awards 
from The Lord Lieutenant of 
Cambridgeshire, Hugh Duberly cbe Chairman’s statement
We will continue to pursue opportunities  
for growth both organically and through  
acquisitions that align with our 
strategic objectives 04
The result is unprecedented: 
location driven solutions providing 
a new level of visibility and control 
over assets and processes.
Ubisense Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2012
