 04
Financial Highlights – 2004
Turnover
£809.6m
Operating Profit *
£132.3m
Earnings per share *
32.6p
Dividend
12.0p
RESULTS
* Before amortisation of goodwill and intangibles and exceptional items.
2004
£809.6m
2003
£746.7m
2004
£132.3m
2003
£99.4m
2004
32.6p
2003
23.9p
2004
12.0p
2003
9.0p
                           Turnover
+8.4%
Operating Profit
+33.1%
Earnings per Share
+36.4%
Dividend
+33.3%
Business Highlights - 2004
05
December – David Levin announced as UBM’s new CEO CMP Media announces it is to publish Chinese
version of “Information Week” PRNewswire announced that over 90 per cent of the
Chinese companies listed on Nasdaq were using Xinhua PR Newswire.
November – CMPMedica moved further online in French Healthcare – JV acquisition of Axilog CMPi
relaunched Safety and Health Practitioner , the UK’s leading health and safety publication
NOP World won three year global mystery shopping programme for Chevron Texaco. CMP
Healthcare Media’s The Journal of Respiratory Diseases Celebrated its 25th Birthday.
October – UBM showcased its healthcare businesses to investors. PR Newswire launches New
Online Media Room Tool. PR Newswire upgraded its premier national newsline service
US1. CMP Information’s CountryView launched Free colour supplement magazine to
accompany Farmer’s Guardian. CMP Asia September jewellery Fair reached new heights
of success - the largest in the Fair’s 22-year history. Eurisko / NOP World invited to take
part in RAJAR (Radio Joint Audience Research Limited) trial of passive portable radio
and TV metering system.
September – CMP Media’s Digital Connect Magazine Launched 4-City Digital Convergence Road Show.
The full day of events included Intel, LG Electronics, Russound, HAI, Microsoft and
Linksys presentations. CMP Media and Micrsoft Corporation launched MSDN Magazine,
to software developers in the Asia-Pacific region. CMP Asia’s All China Leather Exhibition
(ACLE) and China International Footwear Fair (CIFF) concluded with resounding success
at the Shanghai New International Expo Centre, recording an increase of 20 % over 2003.
August – PR Newswire upgraded its Online Media Database - covering more than 475,000
journalists worldwide. 04 XChange Exceeds Expectations. The CMP Media Channel
conference based in Chicago included keynotes and World Premiers from AMD, Intel,
Ingram, Microsoft & IBM. CMP Healthcare Media to Launch Comprehensive Neurology
Publication. UAP’s Daltons Group websites attracted the highest level of traffic of all the
UAP sites. In August the Dalton’s Group achieved 5.3m page impressions. NOP World wins
global market research retail customer study for Shell.
July – PR Newswire was the official newswire of both the Republican and Democratic national
conventions in 2004. UBM completed the acquisition of leading professional healthcare
media business in Europe & Asia, subsequently named CMPMedica. Guangzhou welcomed
Aquaria China 2004: China’s first ever all-aquatic show.
June – CMP Information Ltd announced the launch of London Interiors. UAP launched
Daltonsproperty.com. CMP Media launched TechWeb Network Pipelines – a series of
topically focused websites, providing business technology professionals with critical
news and information.
May – CMPi Safety and Health Practitioner announced the launch of its new website –
SHPonline.co.uk. Best Edition Ever of Asia Pacific Leather Fair Materials, Manufacturing
and Technology. APLF reinforced its position as the most significant annual event for the
leather industry with a record number of attendees.
April – The 2nd China International Gold, Jewellery & Gem Fair at Shenzhen China Hi Tech Fair
Exhibition Centre increased visitors by 8 percent. UAP’s The PA arrived – launch of new
female targeted magazine with a unique mix of lifestyle and business content. CMP
Media launched Electronics Supply & Manufacturing.
March – CMP Asia announced that it had set up a new company, CMP Media Korea Co Ltd, in Korea
to provide the full range of media products for the dynamic Korean market. PR Newswire
celebrated 50 Years as industry pioneer and leader .
February – CMPi relaunched Guitar Player . Now backed by extensive research by focus groups,
surveys amongst readers and subscribers, and married to a stylish redesign by
award-winning Pentagram Design Inc.
January – CMP Media’s TechWeb Network Launches IT Utility Pipeline. Benvenuto a Eurisko – Eurisko
started its first year with UBM –acquisition of the leading market research company in Italy.
                                  
