 10
Chief Executive’s Review
By any measure the financial results for 2004 were impressive
– revenues, profits, margins, cash flow and dividends were all
well ahead of the previous year. Strong economic growth in
the US, UK and Asia all helped, but the successful investment
in new products and our push into new markets is delivering
steady, sustainable revenue growth.
The hard work put in over the last few years to improve
productivity across the board, to invest in innovation and to
offer our clients a greater range of products in print, events
or online is boosting our market shares, improving yields and
lifting margins. The increasing investment in both
acquisitions and organics is delivering an excellent return
and providing the group with a more stable and predictable
mix of profits. Technology print revenues are still in modest
decline, but the 30 per cent growth online is an important
pointer to the potential in this sector. Healthcare is now one
of our largest sectors and, with signs of a good recovery in
continuing medical education in the US, is set to be a key
profit driver in the next few years. The growth in our
construction and built environment sector in the UK is a text
book example of driving for operating excellence, and at the
same time investing in and integrating successfully several
key acquisitions. PR Newswire has also made important
productivity gains in its core business, invested well to
launch new products and turned its loss making
international business into profit.
These themes continue into 2005. The year has started well,
order books are healthy and the pursuit of new growth
opportunities through greater investment is being vigorously
pursued. Further offshoring and outsourcing will bring useful
margin gains over the coming years. In all of our businesses
we are seeking to use our financial strength and proven
ability to invest and acquire successfully to pursue growth
through consolidation and greater product and geographic
coverage. Usually this will be pursued within our group, but
sometimes, as in the case of NOP, the most compelling
consolidation and growth opportunity might lie outside the
group and be achieved through a sale on terms which
ensure that our shareholders receive the full measure of
these combination benefits. If we are successful in achieving
this outcome at NOP – a business we have steadily built up
over the last 20 years – our shareholders can expect to
receive a substantial part of the value released through a
return of capital.
Malcolm Wall and I are both bowing out of United after
many hugely enjoyable, challenging and generally successful
years. We are proud of the business we have helped to build
and grateful to our colleagues, customers and shareholders
for their support and encouragement. David Levin joins as
CEO in April with an illustrious record and a fine reputation.
He will lead a fine team, brimful of talent and ideas. The
businesses are in great shape and in 2004 demonstrated
their ability to deliver outstanding results.
I would like to pay a most heartfelt tribute to all of my
colleagues and friends right across the group for your
tremendous achievements, not only in 2004 but, in many
cases, stretching over decades. I have had the privilege of
witnessing at first hand the pride, the determination and the
passion you have brought to your business. I have
experienced the thrill and the fun of working with you to
help to build those businesses. I enjoyed every minute of it
and for that I thank you all.
Clive Hollick
Chief Executive
      11
“I WOULD LIKE TO PAY A MOST
HEARTFELT TRIBUTE TO ALL OF MY
COLLEAGUES AND FRIENDS RIGHT
ACROSS THE GROUP FOR YOUR
TREMENDOUS ACHIEVEMENTS, NOT
ONLY IN 2004 BUT, IN MANY CASES,
STRETCHING OVER DECADES. I HAVE
HAD THE PRIVILEGE OF WITNESSING AT
FIRST HAND THE PRIDE, THE
DETERMINATION AND THE PASSION YOU
HAVE BROUGHT TO YOUR BUSINESS.”
BY ANY MEASURE THE FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2004 WERE IMPRESSIVE – revenues, profits,
margins, cash flow and dividends were all well ahead of the previous year. Strong
economic growth in the US, UK and Asia all helped, but the successful
investment in new products and our push into new markets is delivering steady,
sustainable revenue growth.
“I HAVE EXPERIENCED THE THRILL
AND THE FUN of working with you
to help to build those businesses.
I enjoyed every minute of it and for that I
thank you all.”
     
