 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4
Section 1: 2011 Review
2011 Review
2011 has been a very successful year for UBM. 
Revenues were £972.3m, up 9.3% over 2010; 
adjusted operating profit was £201.9m, up 17.5%; 
and adjusted fully diluted earnings per share were up 
13.1% to 56.8p – the highest in the UBM’ s history. 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 20.0p 
per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 
26.3p, also a record level for UBM.
The 2011 financial results demonstrate tangible 
returns on the substantial investment we have made in 
the organisational structure and culture of UBM and 
illuminate management’ s remarkable progress in 
systematically repositioning our business portfolio 
– through organic development together with our 
very active and disciplined acquisitions program. 
Over the last five years, UBM revenues have grown at 
a 4.9% CAGR, but a very substantial shift underlies this 
growth, with expansion in new businesses offsetting 
significant print declines. Events generated more than 
40% of revenue in 2011, up from under 30% in 2006; 
while Print has declined from over a third of revenues 
five years ago to 11.6% last year. Revenues generated 
in Emerging Markets have more than doubled, 
and now comprise over a fifth of UBM’ s revenues. 
UBM is a fundamentally different business from 
what it was five years ago.
Strategic Progress
UBM continued to deliver on its strategic objectives 
during the year by investing in our organisational 
resource needs and in our core activities. Progress in 
Events was underpinned by important acquisitions 
and organic initiatives. Our acquisitions included 
Ecobuild, the world’ s largest exhibition dedicated to 
sustainable building products and the UK’ s fastest 
growing trade event with over 55,000 attendees in 
2011. Ecobuild both complements our existing 
construction portfolio and affords highly attractive 
geo-adaptation opportunities into growth markets 
such as China, where Ecobuild will operate alongside 
our existing Expobuild event in 2012. As with all 
acquisitions, we expect Ecobuild to generate returns 
in excess of our cost of capital in the first full year 
of trading, further illustrating management’ s 
continuing discipline and prudence in the pursuit 
of accretive growth.
Several important organic initiatives also 
underpinned our results, particularly the integration 
of Canon which performed well, and the continued 
impact made through GEM
1
 in systematic 
geo-adaptation and promoting best practice across 
our fastest growing segment. 
W e also continued to invest in our other 
businesses: in new product development in Data 
Services; technology , new products and sales force 
in PR Newswire; and new product development 
in our Online activities where we have substantially 
expanded our presence in virtual events and 
community engagement products. With the recent 
divestitures of Farmers Guardian, Pulse, and Daltons 
as well as the announced disposals of the F rench and 
Belgian medical titles there has been a marked 
acceleration in the rationalisation of our print magazine 
activity , which is increasingly focused on communities 
where print magazine advertising forms one element 
of an integrated marketing services offering.
Chairman’ s Statement
Our Aim: T o create long term value while 
generating attractive returns for shareholders. 
£972.3m
Revenues
Up 9.3%
1 Global Events Momentum.
John Botts  
Chairman Section 1: 2011 Review „
Section 2: Governance „
Section 3: Financial statements „
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
26.3p
Dividend
Full year dividend increased 
5.2%
Organisational Progress
Our People
Continued investment in our people and business 
culture is also showing tangible returns. Over the 
last five years 100 high potential managers have 
participated in our Business Leadership Program 
(‘BLP’), contributing not only to their capacity to lead 
businesses, but creating a common lexicon and culture 
across UBM. The ongoing value of the BLP is 
reflected in the vibrant regional BLP alumni group 
activity as well as the emergence of alumni as senior 
leaders of our businesses. The BLP is complemented 
by a number of regionally-focused leadership 
programs – 2011, importantly , saw the launch of the 
first China Leadership Development Program.
Success in our investment in UBM’ s culture has 
also been evident in usage of the UBM Wiki, which 
continues to grow and is used increasingly as a tool 
for effective collaboration across UBM. Our second 
annual “ubm VOICE” global employee engagement 
survey noted a significant increase in participation 
and engagement scores.
W e have also reinforced our headquarters team 
to strengthen UBM’ s capacity to support continued 
growth and development – notable senior hires 
include Rorie Devine, our Group CIO.
Sustainability
W e continue to focus on using our events 
management skills to support key community 
initiatives reflected in the expansion of our NGO 
Events series to include a new event in the UK with 
a further event scheduled in India in 2012.
Our policy to limit our environmental impact 
and in particular to reduce UBM’ s carbon footprint 
has yielded highly encouraging results this year. 
W e have now completed the second year of our global 
environmental reporting initiative, with substantial 
expansion of energy and waste data collection and 
have established a group wide objective to reduce our 
carbon footprint by 5% by the end of 2012. Our 
people and businesses have received numerous awards 
recognising leadership in carbon reduction – most 
recently, in November 2011, UBM was ranked in the 
top 4% of the UK CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme’ s 
performance league table.
The Board
The Board has continued to demonstrate 
extraordinary commitment to UBM, both at 
its regular meetings, including in Shanghai and 
New Y ork during 2011, and through on-going 
engagement with senior executives, mentoring 
relationships and participation in UBM leadership 
and training programs. 
Looking back at progress over the past five years, 
I would like to thank the Board, management and 
UBM’ s staff and particularly our CEO David Levin 
for all their efforts, culminating in a successful 2011. 
As I look back at my five years as Chairman of UBM 
I am very encouraged by the quality of the business 
and people and believe that UBM is increasingly well 
positioned for sustainable growth.
Finally , both the Board, and I personally , would 
like to acknowledge the hard work and effort of all the 
people at UBM who have helped to generate another 
exceptional set of results. 
John Botts 
Chairman
UBM plc
21.3%
Emerging Markets
Now account for a signiﬁcant 
proportion of UBM revenues
04 03 06 05 07 08 09 10 11
Dividend pence
26.3
12.0
9.0
15.0
18.0
21.6
23.8 24.2
25.0 
