 05
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
The Group’s strategy, first articulated in 2001, has been for
Express (UK business-to-business parcel delivery) to remain
the Group’s core activity, with the Group’s other activities
being developed alongside, each with more rapid growth
rates.  Strategic acquisitions have been selectively
considered, either to achieve critical mass in a particular area
or to add a complementary service to the range of time-
definite deliveries.  In all of its businesses, Business Post’s
strategy has been to remain a premium rather than a volume
player.
A substantial advance has been achieved since 2001 and
the Group has developed strong market positions for each 
of its businesses:
•
relative to the pre-tax profit of £12.7m and earnings per 
share of 16.9p reported for the year ended 31 March 
2001, the underlying increases in profits and EPS have 
been 61% and 57% respectively;
•
Express has progressively grown its market share by 
focusing on providing high quality services and, in a 
recent independent market survey, was again voted best 
for on-time deliveries;
•
International, through its long-term partnership with 
FedEx, offers customers access to the world’s 
leading air express delivery company and, via the 
Eurodis network, offers high quality road-based 
deliveries throughout Europe;
• HomeServe has introduced a number of innovations to 
improve customers’ first-time delivery success rate, 
increasing its turnover eight-fold over three years;
•
UK Mail was the first company to sign an agreement for 
access into Royal Mail’s network and is recognised as 
the market leader;
• Courier has developed both a rapidly-growing nationwide
network for same-day deliveries and, through acquisition,
a specialist technical courier capability;
• UK Pallets, building on the expertise developed in our 
parcel network, is introducing sophisticated IT into 
the market for palletised deliveries to differentiate itself 
from the volume competitors through higher 
levels of customer service.
The Board believes that the Group contains the elements
necessary for further substantial profitable growth, not only in
UK Mail, but also through its other businesses, which are
collectively capable of driving double-digit percentage
growth.
REVIEW OF 2005
A summary of the main developments across the Group
during the year is set out on the following pages:
Page 07 Parcel Services
Page 13 Mail Services
Page 15 Specialist Distribution Services
Page 18 Staff & Associates
In all of its businesses,
Business Post’s strategy is to
remain a premium rather than 
a volume player
PAUL CARVELL, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
‘‘
‘‘
Chief Executive’s Review 06 Chief Executive’s Review
Parcel Services
Parcel Services comprises the Group’s
business-to-business (Express), business-
to-consumer (HomeServe) and cross-
border (International) business units, all
sharing the combined infrastructure of
Network Services.
07 Express is the Group’s core UK business-to-business parcel
service, and in the period contributed 56% of Group turnover.  
It specialises in next-day deliveries for those customers who
need a reliable service backed up by sophisticated information
systems, thereby differentiating itself from the high volume/low
price operators.
Express made good progress in a market which was challenging throughout the
year, increasing its turnover by 5.4% to £131.3m.  Adjusting for the three fewer
working days, Express increased its turnover by 7%, representing a further
increase in market share to around 8%.
Despite customers tending more towards a standard service, the average rate per
consignment advanced marginally, through strategic price rises and an increase in
fuel surcharge as a result of higher oil prices.  Further increases in revenue quality,
whilst maintaining market share, and the introduction of a Business Print service
for customers sending out point-of-sale materials, will be the main focus for
Express in the coming year.
Express is the UK’s largest independent 
parcel business
08
Chief Executive’s Review
Express
£131.3m
of turnover 
56%
of Group turnover
5.4%
growth on last year
Financial Highlights - Express International is responsible for all shipments coming into and leaving
the UK, accounting in the period for 12% of Group turnover.  A high
proportion of its business derives from Business Post’s activities as
Global Service Participant in the UK for FedEx.  Additionally, as a
member of the Eurodis network, International handles road-based
shipments to and from Continental Europe.    
International increased its turnover by 17% to £28.1m, reflecting the introduction of a
heavyweight distribution service (FedEx International Priority Freight) from April 2004.  
International Mail, launched in July 2002 to offer business customers an alternative to
Royal Mail for their overseas postal requirements, again grew substantially, increasing its
turnover to £2.4m from £1.6m.  
Continued development of the Eurodis road arrangement, launched in January 2004,
contributed to a 23% increase in Continental European road-borne business. The Eurodis
network will benefit in the current year from the 10 states which have recently joined the EU.
With the market for cross-border shipments
growing at roughly twice that of domestic,
International has considerable scope for
growth
£28.1m
of turnover 
12%
of Group turnover
17%
growth on last year
09
Financial Highlights - International
Chief Executive’s Review
International HomeServe, which accounted for 12% of Group turnover, is the
Group’s UK business-to-consumer parcel service, providing a high
quality time-definite service to residential addresses, with full proof of
delivery and track-and-trace facilities.
The home delivery market continues to grow strongly and, through its targeted sales
approach focusing on customers requiring a tailored service, HomeServe continued its
recent success, increasing turnover by 54% to £26.8m, representing an eight-fold
increase since its relaunch in April 2002.
An important element in HomeServe's success is that it concentrates on delivering high
value items and works closely with the customer to achieve a first time delivery. 
A substantial contributor to the turnover increase was the Walsh Western contract, which
was effective from June 2003, to deliver computers and related equipment.  Important
new business wins, all of which are expected to contribute an increased turnover in the
current year, included deliveries of computers, household goods and golf equipment for a
range of new customers.
Under an exclusive distribution agreement with Toronto-based eBox, using a network of
eBoxes incorporating electronic access devices, trials of secure unattended deliveries
commenced and are proceeding satisfactorily.
HomeServe has grown eight-fold 
since its relaunch in April 2002
£26.8m
of turnover
12%
of Group turnover
54%
growth on last year
10
Financial Highlights - HomeServe
Chief Executive’s Review
HomeServe Network Services is responsible for providing high quality collection
and delivery services to the business units within Parcel Services
through a network of 59 depots (22 corporate and 37 franchised).
Network Services moved 37.4 million parcels, up 14% on the previous year, together with
over 70 million items of mail.  Against the background of this strong growth, and the
increasingly strong pre-Christmas peak period, Network Services incurred additional
costs of approximately £0.75m to ensure the maintenance of high quality service levels.
During the year, the roll out was completed of 1,500 new scanners for the Group's
collection and delivery drivers; their GPRS and wi-fi capability significantly improves the
speed with which scans can be transferred to the Group's track-and-trace website both
from within its sites and whilst out on the road. 
Initiatives designed to enhance further the level of both customer and employee
satisfaction have commenced, and the first half of the current year will see significant
levels of training and development throughout the network.
The Network Services infrastructure
ensures the Group retains its market -
leading delivery quality
Over 37 million
parcels delivered
On-time deliveries
consistently over 
98%
Major investments
made in scanning
technology
11
Key Points - Network Services
Chief Executive’s Review
Network Services 12 UK Mail is licensed by Postcomm, the
independent regulator, to offer mail
services throughout the United Kingdom
13
Chief Executive’s Review
Mail Services UK Mail, as the first mover in the deregulated UK market for business
mail, offers a nationwide two day mail delivery service, operating in
both the business-to-consumer and business-to-business markets.
Features of the service are track-and-trace and flexibility of collection
for large mailers.  
UK Mail has made excellent progress and achieved turnover of £10.2m for the year,
comprising £2.1m in the first half and £8.1m in the second half.  At the year end, less
than 11 months after commencing trading, UK Mail had an annualised throughput of
approximately 250 million items, approaching 1% of the market and making UK Mail the
largest Downstream Access operator. 
Customers cover a broad range of sectors, with the March 2005 contract with Royal Bank
of Scotland Group (RBSG) representing a ground-breaking entry into the VAT -exempt
market place.  Making full use of the established collection, linehaul and delivery expertise
of the Group, UK Mail achieved over 98% on-time deliveries.
UK Mail achieved monthly profitability by October 2004 and made a small profit for the
year overall.  UK Mail has ambitious plans for the current year, including launching new
products to address the unsorted segment of the market. Significant advances in market
share and profit are expected.
UK Mail commenced trading on 10 May
2004 and had an outstanding and profitable
first year
£10.2m
of turnover 
4%
of Group turnover
Approaching
1%
market share
14
Financial Highlights - UK Mail
Chief Executive’s Review
UK Mail Specialist Distribution Services comprises
the Group’s same-day and palletised
goods delivery activities.
15
Chief Executive’s Review
Specialist Distribution Services Business Post’s Courier activity, which comprises UK Today and
BXTech, accounted for 5% of Group turnover, with an increase 
of 15%.
UK Today is the Group’s UK nationwide same-day courier service.  It operates out of
corporate and franchised depots, using dedicated liveried vehicles and uniformed drivers.
In the year, UK Today increased its turnover by 25% and its profit contribution significantly,
rewarding a focus on improved margins.
BXTech is the Birmingham-based technical courier active in the IT , medical and utilities
sectors. It has a higher proportion of contract-backed business than the rest of the
Group, including agreements with Blockbuster, Siemens and Severn Trent Water for a
range of specialist support services.  In the year, a number of important contracts were
successfully renewed and the sales force was strengthened to develop the sales pipeline.
A focus for the current year is entry into the market for the installation of LCD and plasma
screens for major manufacturers.
Business Post’s Courier activities are
increasingly focusing on small-van logistics
solutions
£12.1m
of turnover
5%
of Group turnover
15%
growth on last year
16
Financial Highlights - Courier
Chief Executive’s Review
Courier UK Pallets provides a nationwide palletised goods delivery service
through a partnership network with over 70 independent haulage
businesses throughout the UK.  Operating from a national hub at
Lichfield (Staffordshire), UK Pallets currently handles nearly 5,000
pallets each night and is estimated to be the UK’s fourth largest
palletised goods network.
UK Pallets generated a turnover of £23.1m, which compares with £14.4m in the eight
months to 31 March 2004 and represents 10% of Group turnover.  Whilst the turnover
increase was 16% year on year, this was below the Board’s expectations, reflecting
disappointing market conditions throughout the year, which were further depressed by
poor trading experienced in the retail and parts of the building sectors over Christmas
and subsequently.  The shortfall in turnover growth and the additional cost of a hub
extension from September 2004 led to a reduced full year profit contribution.
The introduction during the year of UK Pallets Online, which incorporates many tried and
tested concepts from the Parcels side of the business, together with changes in
operational management and expansion of the sales team, will benefit the current year,
during which a significantly improved performance is expected.
UK Pallets is introducing a range of IT
solutions which put it at the forefront of the
pallet networks
£23.1m
of turnover
10%
of Group turnover
16%
growth on last year
17
Financial Highlights - UK Pallets
Chief Executive’s Review
UK Pallets As always, we are entirely dependent upon the hard work and
enthusiasm of not only our employees but also our associates
working within our franchised and partner operations, and as owner-
drivers.
We have already commenced a programme of training and process improvements
designed to make sure our customers’ interests are at the heart of everything we do. By
differentiating ourselves further from our competition through ever-improving customer
care, we will establish a competitive advantage which will be sustainable over the long
term.
The Delta Programme will represent a significant focus for us in the current year, and all
our employees and associates will be taking part in these improvements. I look forward to
the coming year with enthusiam.
Paul Carvell
Chief Executive
The Employee Consultative Group has been
strengthened to provide a robust platform for all
employees to make a significant contribution to
bringing about change in the workplace
ECG representatives
increased from 13 
to 59
Investors in People
accreditation
renewed
Key Points - Staff & Associates
18
Chief Executive’s Review
Staff & Associates
