 The Board remains confident of the
Group’s long term potential. Prospects for
Mail Services remain excellent.
Chairman’s Statement
Excellent progress has been made in UK Mail and
Specialist Services during the period.  However, it has
been a very challenging year within Parcel Services,
particularly in the second half.  
RESULTS
Revenue increased by 19% to £278.2m (2005: £233.3m).
UK Mail contributed £30.2m of the total revenue increase 
of £44.9m.    
Operating profit before exceptional items reduced to £12.1m
(2005: £19.9m), reflecting a decline in profitability levels
within Parcel Services but benefiting from the reversal of
IFRS charges for share-based incentives. Operating profit
totalled £5.4m (2005: £19.9m).  After net interest payable of
£0.4m (2005: £0.3m), profit before tax and exceptional items
was £11.7m (2005: £19.6m).  After exceptional items, pre-tax
profit totalled £5.0m (2005: £19.6m).  
DIVIDENDS
The Board remains confident of the Group’s long term
potential and the prospects for recovery. Accordingly,
following payment of an unchanged interim dividend of 6.4p,
the Board proposes a final dividend of 10.8p (2005: 12.8p).
The final dividend will be payable on 20 July to shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 30 June 2006.
BUSINESS
Both the progressive decline in revenue growth during the
year and the markedly lower profitability within Parcel Services
can be attributed in large part to the impact of a number of
unsuccessful profit-improvement initiatives introduced during
the year.  Under the new leadership of Guy Buswell, a
comprehensive performance improvement plan has been
developed, and is being rigorously implemented. Encouraging
early progress has been made, particularly in improving
customer service levels, but it will take time for the full benefit
of these actions to show through in the Group results. 
UK Mail enjoyed another excellent year, increasing revenue
four-fold and making an operating profit contribution of £3.2m.
Prospects for Mail Services remain excellent.
Specialist Services made good progress, increasing revenue
by 18% and operating profit before exceptional items by 21%,
rewarding both expanded sales activity and focus on margins.
MANAGEMENT
We announced at the beginning of December the
appointment of Guy Buswell, formerly Managing Director of
UK Mail, as Chief Executive following the resignation of Paul
Carvell.  Since his appointment, Guy has made a number of
significant changes to the management team, designed to
streamline the management of the Group’s activities and
provide greater focus on those areas requiring margin
improvement.  
We also announced on 23 May 2006 that, after more than
seven years as Group Finance Director, Peter Fitzwilliam will
step down from the Board on 2 June 2006.  Peter has made
a substantial contribution to the Group, including assisting
most recently in the current performance improvement
strategy.  We are grateful for all he has done, and wish him
the very best with his future plans.
Peter will be succeeded by Steven Glew with effect from 5
June 2006.  Steven has an excellent record of delivering
successful change programmes within quoted companies,
most notably Mothercare plc and Booker plc, and we are
delighted to welcome him to the Board.
STRATEGY
The Group’s strategy remains to focus on three areas of
business – Parcel Services, Mail Services and Specialist
Services.  The business model of Parcel Services is sound,
and there is significant scope for recovery.  The opportunities
for UK Mail, operating through the Group’s core network,
remain particularly exciting and the Board believes that the
Group can maintain its position as the leading competitor to
Royal Mail for the foreseeable future.  The businesses within
Specialist Services operate outside the core network, and
continue to offer attractive growth opportunities on a stand-
alone basis.
As previously stated, the Board believes that the Group
contains the elements necessary for substantial profitable
growth. 
PROSPECTS
Service levels remain high and the number of customers,
following a period of decline during the year, is now on an
upward trend.  Encouraging progress is being made in
tackling the issues within the franchise network; and
initiatives to rebalance the mix of customers and reduce unit
costs within Parcel Services are in the process of being
implemented.  The Board is confident that these will address
the major underlying issues affecting profitability but, by their
nature, will take time to show through in the financial results
for the Group. The Board expects progress in the underlying
results in the coming year, albeit weighted to the second half.
Peter Kane
Chairman
04
