 BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Business Post provides high quality services for
time sensitive deliveries, offering excellent delivery
performance supported by information systems
which are at the forefront of the industry.
Through partnerships and alliances, deliveries can be
made anywhere in the world. However, all the Group’s
business has a UK element and approaching 90% is
intra-UK.
Deliveries range from documents to pallet-based
heavy freight, but the vast majority comprises
packages weighing 5-30kg.
The sectors served are overnight business-to-business
(by the Express, International and UK Pallets business
units), time-definite business-to-consumer (by
HomeServe) and same day (by Courier).  UK Mail, the
Group’s UK business mail service, offers a two day
“Business Class” service.  
For letters and parcels, Express, International,
HomeServe and UK Mail all perform collection and
delivery activity in the UK through a network of 23
corporate and 38 franchised depots linked by an
overnight linehaul operation owned and managed
centrally. International has its gateway site at Bishops
Stortford linked to FedEx’s own air hub at Stansted.
UK Today currently operates from 14 of the depots
but, due to the same day nature of its business,
operates its own pool of drivers and does not utilise
the overnight linehaul operation.
For overnight deliveries, packages and bags of mail
are sorted into metal cages at collection locations, and
these cages transit the country to the relevant delivery
location, thereby reducing the level of manhandling
and risk of damage. Although there is a national hub
at Birmingham, regional sorting is also carried out at
certain mini-hub operations. This reduces vehicle
mileage and enables later collection times from
customers.
The requirements for handling pallet-based freight are
different from mail and parcels, and are managed
through a separate network, comprising a partnership
of 70 independent haulage companies throughout the
UK. Each partner transports pallets of freight into a
central hub in Lichfield, Staffordshire, for onward
shipment, and returns with pallets for delivery on
behalf of other partners.
Sales and customer services are decentralised at each
of the locations, but supported by central marketing
and sales management, and a telesales operation at
UK Today.
As an express delivery business, the Group’s
customers are from a wide range of industry sectors,
including retail (mainly HomeServe), building (UK
Pallets) and publishing. However, the nature of the
Group’s parcel operation, with the use of cages to
transport packages securely and with the minimum of
manhandling, makes our services particularly attractive
to the high-tech sector.
The entire market is deregulated, with the exception of
the UK letter market below 350g or £1, in which UK
Mail operates. This is regulated by Postcomm, an
independent body established by statute in 2000.
A summary of the main developments within each of
the business units is set out on the following pages.
‘‘
Strong increases in profit
have been achieved, both
through organic growth and
acquisition
PAUL CARVELL, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
‘‘
Report & Accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s Review
Business Post
04 05
Business Post
Chief Executive’s Review - Business Post Express
Express has improved
its quality of revenue
during the year through
greater focus on its
customer base
Express, which accounted for 66% (2003: 79%) of Group
turnover, is the Group’s core UK business-to-business parcel
service. It specialises in next-day deliveries for those
customers who need a reliable service backed up by
sophisticated information systems, thereby differentiating itself
from high volume/low price operators.
Express made good progress against subdued market
conditions, improving its market share to some 7
1
/ 2% and
increasing its annual turnover by 3% to £127.5m (2003:
£123.8m). The high quality of delivery performance continues to
assist in new business wins and reduction of customer churn.
Express implemented a number of pricing initiatives at the end of
last year which have held up well during the year, and also
improved the quality of revenue by targeting users of premium
services and by discontinuing less profitable business.
Recent levels of new business wins have been among the
Company’s highest on record and there are initial indications that
the high-tech sector may be experiencing a recovery. In the
current year, Express will maintain its focus on quality of revenue,
positioning itself further at the premium end of the market, and
will also look to introduce new services to existing customers.
The Directors therefore expect increased growth from Express 
in the current financial year.
£127.5m of revenues
66% of Group turnover
3% growth on last year
Financial Highlights - Express Chief Executive’s Review - Business Post International
Business Post
06
With the market estimated
to be worth approximately 
£1 billion, International has
considerable scope for
growth.
International, which accounted for 11% (2003: 12%) of Group
turnover, is responsible for all shipments coming into and
leaving the UK and the Republic of Ireland and is primarily a
business-to-business service. A high proportion of its activity
derives from Business Post’s agreement with FedEx, the
world’s largest express transportation company, as its Global
Service Participant in the UK.  Under this contract, Business
Post is responsible for collecting and delivering parcels for
FedEx customers in those areas of the UK not directly served
by FedEx, and Business Post offers a full outward-bound air
express service utilising the worldwide FedEx delivery network.
Additionally, as a member of the Eurodis network, International
handles road-based express shipments within Europe.
International increased its turnover during the year by 17% to
£21.2m (2003: £18.2m), with an increased rate of growth in the
second half.  International Mail continues to develop strongly,
offering business customers an alternative to Royal Mail for their
overseas postal requirements. First launched in July 2002, it
increased its turnover to £1.6m from £0.3m. FedEx-related
business also showed good progress, reflecting the higher rates
of growth in cross-border shipments than the domestic market.
The relationship remains strong, and FedEx has recently awarded
Business Post its international priority freight business, extending
the existing collection and delivery activity from small packages
to bulkier freight items. 
The new Eurodis road arrangement, providing a new delivery
network across Europe with full on-line track-and-trace
capabilities, was launched on schedule in January 2004 and
increased both outbound and inbound turnover in the fourth
quarter. Also in January 2004, International expanded its
operations in the Republic of Ireland through the appointment of
Nightline, an independent eight depot business, to carry out its
deliveries. This provides a strong platform for services into this
important market. 
Financial Highlights - International
£21.2m of revenues
11% of Group turnover
17%
growth on 
last year 07
Business Post
Chief Executive’s Review - Business Post HomeServe
Financial Highlights - HomeServe
£17.4m of revenues 
9% of Group turnover
129%
HomeServe is rapidly
increasing its share of the
fast-growing home delivery
market
growth on 
last year
HomeServe, which accounted for 9% (2003: 5%) of Group
turnover, is the Group’s UK business-to-consumer parcel
service, providing a high quality time-definite service to
residential addresses, with full proof of delivery and track-and-
trace facilities.
During the year, HomeServe increased its turnover by an
excellent 129% to £17.4m (2003: £7.6m). The continued success
of HomeServe, following an underlying increase of 130% last
year, reflects a rapidly growing market and also a targeted sales
approach, concentrating on the upper end of the market where
customers are looking for a high quality time-definite delivery
service.
HomeServe will continue to focus its sales efforts on major
manufacturers and retailers and will also continue to explore new
products, offering improved service and a wider range of drop-off
points. Chief Executive’s Review - Business Post Network Services
Business Post
08
Key Points - Network Services
Network Services is responsible for providing high quality
collection and delivery services to the business units within
Parcel Services at a low unit cost.
During the year, the level of on-time deliveries remained
consistently high, and cost increases were kept well below
inflationary levels. The operation benefited from the continued
introduction of double-decked trailers, which enable more
parcels to be shipped in one vehicle movement, and from the
introduction of a new breed of hand-held scanner. Capital
expenditure of £1.6m was incurred during the year on these two
initiatives and a further £2.1m will be spent in the current year as
the new generation scanners are rolled out across the network. 
As the major employer in the Group, Network Services’ principal
challenges for the current financial year are to enhance further
the level of both employee and customer satisfaction. The
Group’s new Employee Consultative Group is operating well and
the feedback from employee satisfaction surveys is being
incorporated into the Group’s practices. Customers are already
benefiting from the advantages of the Group’s new Customer
Relationship Management software, Discovery, and further action
is planned under an internal project, “Delta”, to enhance its use
and give customers improved service when they contact our
depots.
On-time deliveries 
consistently over 98%
Major investments made in
double-decked trailers
The Network Services
infrastructure ensures the
Group retains its market -
leading delivery quality
Group Managing Director, Parcel Services, Russell Hodgson (right) 
and his team. 09
Business Post
Chief Executive’s Review - Courier
Business Post’s Courier activity, which comprises UK Today
and the re-branded BXTech, accounted for 5% (2003: 3%) of
Group turnover. During the year, Courier increased its turnover
by 133% to £10.5m (2003: £4.5m).   
UK Today is the Group’s UK nationwide same-day courier
service. It operates out of corporate and franchised depots, 
using dedicated delivery vehicles, and has access to the 
National Express coach network linking 1,200 locations each day.
UK Today increased its turnover by 48%, with customer wins both
nationally and locally, but its gross profit margins fell as difficulty
was experienced in recruiting high quality owner drivers at the
same rate as the growth of the business. In the current year,
growth rates for UK Today will be lower, but the current focus 
on improved margins is expected to result in a strong increase 
in profit.
BXTech, the Birmingham-based technical courier active in the
computer, medical and utilities sectors, continues to progress
well.  After a period of consolidation in its first year in the Group,
the emphasis in the current year will be to expand the
geographical spread of activities. The company’s first ever
technical sales director has been appointed, with a focus on
desktop support services.
Financial Highlights - Courier
£10.5m of revenues
5% of Group turnover
133%
Business Post’s Courier
activity has been enhanced
through the acquisition of 
BXTech, a specialist 
technical courier
growth on 
last year Chief Executive’s Review - UK Pallets
Business Post
10
Financial Highlights - UK Pallets
£14.4m of revenues 
8% of Group turnover
The acquisition of UK 
Pallets is Business Post’s
most significant to date and
adds another complementary
service for customers
UK Pallets provides a nationwide express palletised goods
delivery service through a partnership network with 70
independent haulage businesses throughout the UK. Run from
a national hub at Lichfield (Staffordshire), UK Pallets currently
handles more than 4,000 pallets each night and is estimated to
be the UK’s fourth largest pallet network company, in a market
that is experiencing annual growth of around 30%.
In the eight months since its acquisition, UK Pallets generated 
a turnover of £14.4m, a substantial increase on the comparable
period of the previous year and representing 8% of Group
turnover. Service levels have remained very high, with over 98% 
of all deliveries being made on time.
A focus for the current financial year is the transfer of existing IT
expertise from Business Post’s parcel businesses to benefit UK
Pallets’ customers and partnership network. Additionally,
following the receipt of planning permission in January 2004, 
it is intended to double the size of its national hub by September 
to enable it to handle daily volumes of up to 8,000 pallets. 11
Business Post
Chief Executive’s Review - UK Mail
UK Mail is at the 
vanguard of the introduction 
of competition into the UK
business mail market
Financial Highlights - UK Mail
Business mail market
c£5 billion
On 10 February 2004, following an extended period of
negotiation, UK Mail and Royal Mail signed the first agreement
of its kind in Europe, on mutually satisfactory terms. This
enables access to Royal Mail’s downstream delivery network
for UK Mail’s Business Class service, which offers two day mail
delivery with track-and-trace up to the point of handover to
Royal Mail and flexibility of collection to large mailers (initially,
businesses mailing over 4,000 and, typically, over 10,000 pre-
sorted letters a day). 
We were delighted to reach an amicable agreement with Royal
Mail.  The terms we agreed were substantially similar to those
that would have been determined by Postcomm. Following
successful trials during April, on 10 May 2004, UK Mail
commenced daily collections on behalf of a blue chip company,
and it is also in advanced stages of negotiation with other
significant mailers.
Business Post’s Chief Executive (right) and Royal Mail’s Chief 
Executive, Adam Crozier, pictured at the signing of UK Mail’s 
historic agreement with Royal Mail. Chief Executive’s Review - Staff & Associates
Business Post
12
Key Points - Staff & Associates
1,882 employees
17% growth on last year
2,000 associates
All of our business units have made good progress
during the financial year and we are well placed to build
further on this success. As always, we are entirely
dependent upon the hard work and enthusiasm of our
employees and also our associates, working both within
our franchised operations and as owner-drivers. Together
they have strived to provide our customers with a high
quality service and the Group's financial results are a
testament to their achievements.
I would like to extend my thanks to them all.
Paul Carvell
Chief Executive 13
Business Post
Business Post 
