 I am pleased to report another year of considerable
progress, in line with the Three Year Plan set out in
November 2001.  In particular, pre-tax profit
increased substantially and a strong base has been
established for further profitable development.
FINANCE
On turnover up 23% at £192.7m, pre-tax profit increased
by 19% to £19.1m and earnings per share advanced by
16% to 24.5p, in both cases before deducting goodwill
amortisation of £0.4m (2003: £nil).
Pre-tax profit increased by 16% to £18.7m and earnings
per share advanced by 12% to 23.8p after the deduction
of goodwill amortisation.
Net cash inflow from operating activities rose strongly, to
£22.6m from £13.7m. For the first time since flotation in
1993, Business Post finished the year with net debt (of
£5.6m) and this was entirely due to the UK Pallets
acquisition.
Post-tax return on average net assets increased to 26.5%
from an already substantial 25.1%. 
DIVIDENDS
It is proposed that dividends per share be increased by
7% to 18.0p. 
The increased 1.36x cover by earnings per share before
goodwill amortisation (and 1.32x after goodwill
amortisation) is in the line with the Board’s policy of
increasing dividend cover whilst also increasing
dividends per share.
BUSINESS
The Three Year Plan envisaged two speed progress, with
the newer and smaller businesses advancing at a faster
rate than the traditional Express business-to-business
parcel activity, and this has proved to be the case in the
year under review. 
Whilst Express grew its turnover by 3% in the year, it
increased its market share to an estimated 7
1
/ 2% and
maintained its very high levels of service performance. 
Amongst the newer and smaller businesses, of special
note was the strong growth in HomeServe, operating in
the business-to-consumer market.Launched in January
2000, HomeServe’s turnover increase of 129% followed
an underlying 130% increase in the previous year.
In the year, Business Post made its most significant
acquisition to date, Weaver Pallet Express, since 
re-branded as UK Pallets, a nationwide express
palletised goods delivery service. This specialised
market is experiencing annual growth of around 30% and
we are delighted with this acquisition. 
Of historic significance, in February 2004 Business Post’s
subsidiary, UK Mail, and Royal Mail signed the first
agreement of its kind in Europe, enabling access to
Royal Mail’s downstream delivery network for UK Mail’s
Business Class service.  On 10 May 2004, UK Mail
transported its first letters on behalf of a customer, and
we are very optimistic about further developments this
year.
PERSONNEL
In October 2003, Russell Hodgson, Group Operations
Director, was promoted to Group Managing Director, Parcel
Services reporting to Paul Carvell, Chief Executive. Thereby,
Russell assumed responsibility for the Express, International
and HomeServe business units, all of which rely on the
shared parcels infrastructure of Network Services. By
bringing our parcel services together, we will bring additional
focus to the Group’s principal area of activities and assist us
in maximising our operational leverage.
Richard Saville retires as a non-executive Director on 31
May 2004, having been a non-executive Director since
October 1998. His replacement, who was appointed on 
1 April 2004, is Philip Stephens, aged 61, who was
involved in corporate finance and broking for more than
35 years until his retirement in 2002.
To all the Group employees and associates who are
involved in the owned and franchised depots, I extend
my thanks on behalf of all shareholders.
PROSPECTS
The Board expects further good progress in the current
year and remains very confident about the Group’s long
term potential.
Peter Kane
Chairman
‘‘
The Board remains very
confident about the Group’s
long-term potential
PETER KANE, CHAIRMAN
‘‘
Report & Accounts 2004
Chairman’s Statement
Business Post
02 Report & Accounts 2004
03
Business Post
