 BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Business Post provides high quality services for time sensitive
deliveries, offering excellent delivery performance supported by
information systems which are at the forefront of the industry.
Through partnerships and alliances, deliveries can be made
anywhere in the world. However, all the Group’s business has a
UK element and approaching 90% is intra-UK.
Deliveries range from documents to pallet-based heavy freight,
but the vast majority comprises packages weighing 5-30kg.
The sectors served are overnight business-to-business (by the
Express and International business units), overnight business-to-
consumer (by HomeServe) and same day (by UK Today).  UK
Mail, the proposed UK business mail service, intends to offer a
two day “Business Class” service.  
Express, International and HomeServe all perform collection and
delivery activity in the UK through a network of 22 corporate and
41 franchised depots linked by an overnight linehaul operation
owned and managed centrally. International has its gateway site
at Bishops Stortford linked to FedEx’s own gateway at Stansted.
UK Today currently operates from 24 of the depots but, due to
the same day nature of its business, operates its own pool of
drivers and does not utilise the overnight linehaul operation.
For overnight deliveries, packages are sorted into metal cages at
collection locations, and these cages transit the country to the
relevant delivery location, thereby reducing the level of
manhandling and risk of damage. Although there is a national
hub at Birmingham, regional sorting is also carried out at certain
mini-hub operations. This reduces vehicle mileage and enables
later collection times from customers.
Sales and customer services at each of the depots are supported
by central marketing and sales management, and a telesales
operation at UK Today.
The five year contract with FedEx, which commenced in
September 2001, accounts for approximately 10% of the Group’s
turnover. No other customer accounts for over 5%.  Roughly 20%
of Group turnover is with the high tech sector.
The entire market is deregulated, with the exception of the UK
letter mail market below 350g or £1, which is regulated by
Postcomm, an independent body established by statute.
A summary of the main developments within each of the
business units is set out on the following pages.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES’S REVIEW
“THE STRONG GROWTH 
REFLECTS THE GREATER FOCUS
RESULTING FROM HAVING
SEPARATE BUSINESS UNITS”
PAUL CARVELL, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
4 Business Post Group plc EXPRESS
Express, which accounted for 79% (2002: 82%) of Group turnover, is the
Group's core UK business-to-business parcel service. It specialises in next-
day deliveries for those customers who need a consistent and reliable
service backed up by sophisticated information systems, thereby
differentiating itself from high volume/low price operators.
In the year, Express increased its turnover by 14%, to £123.8m from £108.4m, in a
market estimated to have increased only marginally. As a result, the directors believe
that Express has improved its market share from 6% to 7%.
The strong revenue growth reflects the improved quality of delivery performance
which has assisted new business wins and further reduced customer churn.
The improving level of customer demand across the year allowed Express to
implement a number of pricing initiatives which have progressively improved yield,
and an objective for the current year is to improve further the quality of revenue.
This will be achieved through targeted sales and marketing initiatives aimed at
customers who are higher users of premium services, and a review of less 
profitable accounts.
Report & Accounts 5
• 79% of Group turnover
• Market share increased to 7%
• Delivery performance improved 
even further
Carl Hutber - Express MD (centre) with two of his senior managers,
Joanne Hardy and Scott Shepherd
Express currently represents 79% of the Group’s turnover INTERNATIONAL
6 Business Post Group plc
• 12% of Group turnover
• International Mail launched July 2002
• New single pack network being 
introduced during 2003/04
Brian Jenkins - International MD (centre) in discussion with Mark
Bischler and Michelle Walker.
International, which accounted for 12% (2002: 9%) of Group turnover, is
responsible for all shipments coming into and leaving the UK and the
Republic of Ireland and is primarily a business-to-business service. A high
proportion of its activity derives from Business Post's agreement with
FedEx, the world's largest express transportation company, as its Global
Service Participant in the UK. Under this contract, which commenced in
September 2001, Business Post is responsible for collecting and delivering
parcels for FedEx customers in those areas of the UK not directly served by
FedEx. Additionally, International handles road-based shipments within
Europe, working with a number of partners in the EU countries, and offers a
full outbound Air Express service utilising the worldwide FedEx delivery
network. 
Much of the turnover increase, to £18.2m from £12.1m, results from the full year
contribution from the FedEx relationship, which continues to work well, with very
high delivery performance. In addition, the International product offerings were
overhauled, tariffs simplified and new products introduced. In particular, International
Mail was launched in July 2002, offering business customers an alternative to Royal
Mail for their overseas postal requirements, and this has developed satisfactorily
during the year. In the current year, a European single pack network is being
developed to complement the existing road services for heavier weight
consignments, and this should be operational in the summer of 2003.
With the market estimated to be worth approximately £1 billion, International has
considerable scope for growth.
Business Post is responsible for collecting and delivering parcels for FedEx customers in those areas of the UK not served by FedEx HOMESERVE
HomeServe, which accounted for 5% (2002: 6%) of Group turnover, is the
Group's UK business-to-consumer parcel service, providing a high quality
next day service to residential addresses, with full proof of delivery and
track-and-trace facilities.
Trading comparisons with the prior year are affected by the loss through
administration in January 2002 of HomeServe’s previous biggest customer, Tiny
Computers. Turnover growth of 10%, from £6.9m to £7.6m, reflects an underlying
growth of 130% if Tiny is excluded.
This excellent performance reflects a growing market and a targeted sales approach,
concentrating on the upper end of the market (estimated to be worth some £200m)
which is both suitable for caged transportation and requires a high quality delivery
performance, including IT solutions.
In order to provide customers and the ultimate recipients of delivery more choice and
greater flexibility, a range of new products is being introduced. These allow items to
be left in a designated safe location, an alternative address, or one of 3,200 secure
drop-off points, principally retail garages and convenience stores.
Report & Accounts 7
• 5% of Group turnover
• Underlying growth of 130%
• Alternative delivery options being 
introduced
Bill Chacksfield - HomeServe MD (centre) with Kate Stansby and
Maxine Kelly
HomeServe provides a high quality next day service to residential addresses UK TODAY
UK Today, which accounted for 3% (2002: 1%) of Group turnover, is the Group's
UK nationwide same-day courier service. It operates out of both corporate
and franchised depots, uses separate delivery vehicles, and has access to the
National Express coach network linking 1,200 locations each day.
In the year, UK Today extended its operations from six to 24 Group depots and
increased its turnover by 165% from £1.7m to £4.5m. A further five sites are planned
for the current year and, with national coverage, allows UK Today to target national
contracts in a market estimated at £300m where there are few national operators. 
UK Today is proving to be a good source of referral work for the Group's other
services and several new business wins have been achieved in Express and
HomeServe from customers impressed by UK Today's performance.
To complement UK Today's services for ad hoc business customers, BXT Limited was
acquired at the end of February 2003 - Business Post's first acquisition since flotation
in 1993. BXT is a Birmingham-based technical courier with a focused customer base
for whom services are supplied under contract. In the year ended 31 July 2002, BXT
achieved turnover of £4.3m and pre-tax profits of £0.3m. The consideration was
£1.9m, net of cash acquired. BXT is settling in well. Plans for the coming year
include leveraging the customer bases to develop cross-selling opportunities, and
winning more contracts in its existing technical, medical and utility sectors.
8 Business Post Group plc
• 3% of Group turnover
• Expansion from 6 to 24 depots
• Technical Courier BXT acquired in 
February 2003
Mark Holmes - BXT MD and Martyn Wilson - UK Today MD
UK Today has over 2,000 active customers UK MAIL
UK Mail proposes to offer a business mail service in the UK under its
licence from Postcomm, the independent postal industry regulator. This
allows it to collect mail from business customers and undertake the initial
sorting and trunking before delivery to the relevant Royal Mail delivery
location, for local sorting and final delivery. 
UK Mail did not trade in the year. After extensive negotiations with Royal Mail failed
to reach an agreement, in April 2002 UK Mail asked Postcomm to determine a tariff
for access to Royal Mail's delivery network. That proposed determination has only
recently been received and will be followed by a period of public consultation.  The
progress towards commencing the service has been frustratingly slow, for reasons
outside the Group's control. However, costs (£0.4m) have been kept to a minimum.
With the UK market for business mail estimated to be worth some £5bn, this
continues to represent a substantial and exciting opportunity. However, no
contribution to profit should be assumed for the current financial year. 
Report & Accounts 9
• UK Mail awaiting final determination
• Costs being kept to a minimum
• UK business mail market estimated 
at c£5 billion
Guy Buswell - UK Mail MD (left) with Ian Paterson and Lisa Randle
UK Mail is at the vanguard of the introduction of competition into the UK business mail market NETWORK SERVICES 
Network Services is responsible for providing high quality collection and delivery
services to the Group's business units at a low unit cost. Across the year, a tight control
over costs was maintained, with particular focus on reducing the use of third party
labour and the level of insurance claims. In addition, the first phase of a change in
overnight linehaul arrangements was implemented, to reduce the number of vehicle
movements and improve operational efficiencies. The principal element of this project
is the introduction of double-decked trailers, and capital expenditure of £0.9m was
incurred during the year as part of this process. A further £1.3m will be spent in the
current year as the next stages of the project are implemented. 
An integral part of Network Services is represented by Business Post's franchised depots, which
provide a high quality local service and entrepreneurial spirit. As indicated previously, further
investment has been made in the franchise network during the year through increased payments and
loans introduced from 1 April 2002. This investment, to finance expansion and generate improved
sales growth and stability within the franchise network, is already bearing fruit.
Relationships with franchisees have been strengthened through the creation of a Franchise Board of
Management, involved in the selection of new franchisees and discussing issues of common interest.
In addition, a share option scheme was introduced in the summer of 2002 to enable franchisees to
share in the broader success of Business Post and to align more closely their interests to those of
Business Post's shareholders.
In addition to providing collection and delivery services to the Group’s business units, Network
Services is also responsible for customer service. During the year, a new customer relationship
management system, Discovery, was introduced and the level of staff training was significantly
increased. These investments are already evident in the improving level of customer demand and
further investments will be made in the current year.
10 Business Post Group plc
Discovery - Business Post’s new Customer
Relationship Management System
Linehaul changes were implemented to reduce the number of vehicle movements and improve operational efficiencies STAFF AND ASSOCIATES
Over the past 12 months, the Group has demonstrated the initial success 
of the three year plan. In particular, the strong growth reflects the greater
focus resulting from having separate business units, each with its own
dedicated team led by a specialist Managing Director.
The Group has also made significant progress in its human resource management
during the year, and has set targets for improving employee satisfaction and reducing
staff turnover The level of staff training has significantly increased, an Employee
Consultative Group has been introduced and a culture of performance management
is being established.
As a service company, we are entirely dependent upon our staff and associates to
provide our customers with a high quality service and I would like to express my
thanks to all of them for helping us to achieve substantial progress over the past
year.
Paul Carvell
Chief Executive
Report & Accounts 11
The first Employee Consultative Group meeting held in April 2003
Training Express is a mobile facility which has enabled a significant increase in staff training
