 Chief Executive’s Review Parcel Services
Parcel Services comprises the
Group’s overnight business-to-
business (Express), business-to-
consumer (HomeServe) 
and cross-border (International) 
parcel delivery activities, using a
national network of 59 parcel depots. 
06 Chief Executive’s Review Parcel Services
The first priority is to ensure that high levels
of customer service are provided on a
consistent and reliable basis.
PARCEL SERVICES
During the year, Parcel Services increased revenue by 5% to
£195.8m, representing 70% of the Group total (2005: 80%). 
After a strong start to the year, with daily volumes well ahead
of the previous year, growth progressively deteriorated, to the
point where in the final quarter they were below those of the
previous year.  Pre-exceptional operating profit declined to
£17.4m (2005: £30.3m). Operating profit was £11.1m (2005:
£30.3m).  
Express revenue declined slightly to £130.8m (2005: £131.3m);
HomeServe increased revenue by 22% to £32.8m (2005: £26.8m),
and International by 12% to £31.6m (2005: £28.1m). 
Both the progressive decline in revenue growth during the
year and the markedly lower profitability can be attributed in
large part to the impact of a number of unsuccessful profit
improvement initiatives introduced during the year.  These
included short-term cost reduction initiatives which adversely
impacted service levels.  These service issues, and a series of
price increases in the summer, in turn affected customer
numbers, particularly SMEs, with the result that the average
selling price declined and operational efficiency reduced.
Furthermore, additional costs were incurred in supporting a
number of under-performing franchises.  
Following my appointment as Group Chief Executive in early
December 2005, I have identified a series of remedial actions
which I am confident will improve levels of profitability within
Parcel Services. The first priority is to ensure that high levels of
customer service are provided on a consistent and reliable
basis.  Under the leadership of a newly-appointed Operations
Director, the results of this focus are already evident, with
service levels in the first three months of 2006 being among
the highest in the Group’s history.   
The chart below illustrates the improvement made across the
period December 2005 to March 2006 when compared with
same period a year earlier, and rebased so that December
2004 equals 100.
This improvement, along with our ability to deliver tailored IT
solutions, was a central factor in the decision of FedEx
Express to renew Business Post’s contract as Global Service
Participant in the UK.  Our existing five year contract will be
replaced with a new five year contract, with effect from 3
September 2006, on similar commercial terms.
The network’s operational efficiency is affected by the balance
of collections and deliveries in individual locations.  In simple
terms, the more equal the balance, the more efficiency is
optimised.  Over time, changes within the customer base have
impacted this balance, and sales activity is now being
targeted on those sites which would benefit most significantly.
Accordingly, sales incentives have been introduced to
encourage new business from smaller customers, both to
increase average selling prices and to enhance utilisation of
collection and delivery vehicles.  
07
Dec 04 Jan 05 Feb 05 Mar 05 Apr 05 May 05 Jun 05 Jul 05 Aug 05 Sep 05 Oct 05 Nov 05 Dec 05 Jan 06 Feb 06 Mar 06
94
96
98
100
102
104
106
108
Rebased Service Levels Chief Executive’s Review Parcel Services
In addition to these site-based initiatives, additional focus is
being placed on Linehaul - the bulk overnight movement of
parcels. Through a renewed focus on capacity utilisation,
opportunities have already been identified to reduce the
number of routes operated, releasing vehicles from the fleet.
The initial impact of this action is evident in the chart of
linehaul costs per parcel below, rebased so that April 2004
equals 100, and will remain one of the key cost reduction
initiatives pursued during the current year.
The impact of the events of the past year has been acute
both within Business Post’s own sites and also its franchise
locations.  The level of profitability within the franchise
network has been poor and, in order to maintain continuity of
service for customers, increased levels of funding were
provided during the year.  The impact on the network has led
both to a reassessment of the recoverability of amounts
previously advanced to franchises and also the future
viability of some individual franchise locations.  
Certain franchise locations were identified where prospects
for improvement were poor.  A number of these have been
converted to Business Post ownership since the start of
2006.  All conversions have been effected without any
detrimental impact on service levels, but have resulted in
one-off costs of transition which have been reported as an
exceptional item. The number of franchises has been
reduced from 42 at its peak to 21 today.
A key element of our strategy going forward is to reduce the
unacceptable level of customer attrition suffered during 2005
and before. For more than two years we have been
developing an educational and training programme that is
designed to improve the quality of the customer experience,
on all those occasions and in those situations when
customers come into contact with our organisation.
It was always anticipated that this would be a long term
project, as it has to reach over 3,500 employees and
associates and, in many cases, inspire changes in their
behaviour. This activity is beginning to yield measurable
results, supported as it is by the parallel development of the
Onyx customer relationship management system, now the
mainstay of our customer service activity.
Responsibility for managing and servicing our large
customer base now falls with the newly created Client
Services Group, under the management of the Client
Services Director. This department creates a bridge between
the Sales and Operations functions and assumes the
responsibility for customer service that they previously
shared. The impact their work is having is already becoming
apparent as a direct result of the focus they now bring to this
vital business activity and is illustrated in the chart below.
08
Increased efficiency in linehaul operations
Operational service at historically high levels
Enhanced customer service standards
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
ebased
Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar
2004/05                   2005/06
10,000
12,000
14,000
16,000
18,000
20,000
22,000
Number of accounts trading in 2005/06
Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar
Up to £500          £500 - £4,999          £5,000+
Linehaul costs per parcel
Customer numbers
Rebased 09 Chief Executive’s Review Mail Services
UK Mail is now recognised as the
leading alternative to Royal Mail
10 Less than two years after commencing trading, 
UK Mail had an annualised throughput of 
approximately 700 million items
Chief Executive’s Review Mail Services
Market share approaching 3%
Major new contracts agreed
Encouraging progress for un-sorted service
Highlights
11
MAIL SERVICES
UK Mail enjoyed another excellent year, increasing revenue
four-fold to £40.4m, representing almost 15% of the Group
total, up from 4% last year.  At the year end, less than two
years after commencing trading, UK Mail had an annualised
throughput of approximately 700 million items.  This
represents approaching 3% of the market, is ahead of
schedule and reinforces UK Mail’s position as the market
leader in downstream access. Operating profit of £3.2m
(2005: breakeven) was achieved, and further strong progress
is expected in the current year.
New UK Mail customers signed over the past year include
Carphone Warehouse, O2, Standard Life, and a contract with
First Data International (FDI), a leading mail production
company, to handle significant volumes of mail for one of the
UK’s leading financial institutions. This builds on UK Mail’s
earlier success in the financial services market, adding to the
major contract won in 2005 with the Royal Bank of Scotland
Group.
As well as excellent progress in the market for pre-sorted
mail items, where strong levels of new business wins have
continued, good progress has also been made in the market
for un-sorted mail.  UK Mail’s un-sorted mail service,
introduced progressively throughout the year, has made an
encouraging start and contributed a modest amount to UK
Mail’s operating profit.  Four machines are already in place
and further machines are planned for introduction during the
coming year.  
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS) has awarded
Approved Supplier status to UK Mail. This is a new scheme
that is designed to further recognise the achievements of
their highest performing suppliers. In addition, UK Mail is
entitled to use the Supplier Excellence mark as a winner in
the RBS Supplier Excellence awards.
RBS are one of the UK’s largest mailers and first awarded
postal business to UK Mail in March 2005. The size of the
contract has continued to grow as UK Mail have
progressively increased their share of the RBS mail output. Chief Executive’s Review Specialist Services
Specialist Services comprises 
UK Pallets, a nationwide palletised
goods delivery service, and same-day
Courier activities, through UK Today
and BXTech.
12 Higher sales activity and business 
development initiatives
UK Pallets network strengthened
UK Today absorbs BXTech
Highlights
Overall, pre-exceptional profit within Specialist Services
increased by 21% against a revenue increase of 18%.  
Chief Executive’s Review Specialist Services
13
SPECIALIST SERVICES
Overall, operating profit before exceptional items within
Specialist Services increased by 21% to £2.3m (2005:
£1.9m) against a revenue increase of 18%. Operating profit
was £2.1m (2005: £1.9m).
UK Pallets
UK Pallets increased revenue by 19% to £27.5m,
representing an unchanged 10% of Group revenue.  This is
an encouraging performance against a background of a
maturing market and reflects the benefits of expanded sales
activity during the year.  With a new Managing Director and
management structure in place a number of new business
development initiatives are being pursued.
The Partner network continues to gather strength and
improve coverage with new appointments being made in key
areas. This adds to the scope and quality of the services
provided by UK Pallets to its customers.
Increased focus is falling within the business on the
fundamentals of safety, accuracy and control in the
presentation and handling of freight shipped through the
system. Success in this task will have a directly beneficial
effect on the retention and development of customers
throughout the network.
Courier
Business Post’s same day Courier activities increased
revenue by 16% to £14.1m, representing 5% of the Group
total.  A focus on profit margins during the year yielded good
results, with a 1.4% increase in operating profit margins.  The
management of the Group’s Courier activities has recently
been restructured, amalgamating BXTech and UK Today into
one business under single management.  This restructuring
is expected to yield further profit improvements in the coming
year.
A recent review of the main business activities of the
combined Courier group has yielded a marketing and
product development plan that is focused on the key
strengths and competencies that it possesses. This has
allowed the development of a targeted plan of sales activity
that is designed to yield new business of good fit and high
margin. Chief Executive’s Review Staff & Associates
Award for training programme
Enhanced communication programme
Foundations laid for the future
Highlights
14
The year 2005/06 has been a difficult year for all our staff
and also our associates working within our franchised
operations and as owner-drivers.  Despite their considerable
efforts, they have not seen their hard work and enthusiasm
rewarded in the financial results for the Group.
As a result, we are working hard to engage all those people
who work for the Group, and particularly those based at our
network sites. We need them to pay greater attention to the
basics of our business – to get it right today so that it
doesn’t become a problem tomorrow. We need to inspire
and motivate them to bring about the fundamental
improvements that are needed and we are dedicating
considerably more time and effort to internal
communications.
The programme includes a new staff magazine, a much
enhanced intranet site, information points at every location
and the installation of PCs in staff amenity areas to support
our learning and development programme.
Creative and relevant training courses will boost staff morale
as well as their knowledge. Our Learning and Development
programme was recognised by a National Training Award in
2005 and we will continue to build on an already excellent
standard.
I strongly believe that Business Post has a great future, and
thank all our staff and associates for their support.
Guy Buswell
Chief Executive 15
