 UK Mail performed strongly in the year to March 2014.  Financial
highlights for the year include;
Group revenues up 7.0%
Group PBT up 28.2%
EPS up 29.6%, and
Final dividend increased 14.5% to 14.2p per share 
Strategy
Our strategy is to grow our revenue and profit margins by establishing a
market leading position in our key markets of parcels, mail and courier
services, with a clear focus on network efficiency together with product and
service innovation.
As you will read later in this report, imail, ipost parcels, packets and retail
logistics all product innovations of the last few years, are gaining real
traction now, delivering real returns for the business.
Our strategic investments are now coming together as we have clarity
following the agreement we reached to relocate our Birmingham hub as a
result of the HS2 link. In December 2013 we reached contractual agreement
with the Secretary of State for Transport and have since commenced
construction of a new enlarged and largely automated national hub near
Coventry, which we anticipate will be fully operational by September 2015.
Our investment in IT continues at pace as we build the infrastructure
necessary to create the future platforms for growth. Our management teams
have again been strengthened during the year, not only with a number of
new appointments, but through continued training throughout the business.
These investments will provide us with the necessary platform to achieve
significant operating efficiencies and continued volume growth over the
years ahead. 
In April 2014, I was delighted to welcome Carl Moore to the Board as Group
Operations director. Carl has been with the company since 2007 and his
contribution to the improvements made in our network efficiency, are
demonstrably clear in the results I am pleased to announce today.
Dividend
The Board has proposed an increase in the final dividend of 1.8p, taking the
final dividend to 14.2p (2013:  12.4p), resulting in a total dividend for the
year of 21.3p (2013: 18.8p).
This represents a full year increase of 13.3%.
The total dividend for the year is covered 1.50 times by earnings (2013:
1.31 times), which the Board considers to be at an appropriate level for our
business.
People
One of the characteristics of our business that has struck me is the ability
to get things done which I see from our colleagues across the business, day
in day out. 
The results this year are testament to the success this approach yields.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all of our colleagues, and our
associates working within our franchise and pallet networks for their
continued hard work and commitment in providing this great service to our
customers.  
Outlook
I remain confident in our strategy and believe that the Group is well
positioned to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
We have now entered a new phase of significant strategic investment which
will set us up well for the next stage of profitable growth, with the benefits
expected to be seen from 2015 onwards.
With the strength of our market positions, a well-invested integrated and
automated network, and a growing suite of innovative and industry leading
products and services, I am excited by the medium term growth prospects
for UK Mail.
Thank you again for your continued support.
Peter Kane, Chairman
I am excited by the medium term growth 
prospects for UK Mail.
Chairman’s statement
3
