 UKRPRODUCT GROUP LTD
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am delighted to present the first annual report
of Ukrproduct Group following its admission to
AIM. The Board and management team have
worked hard to sustain the Group’s growth
going forward and we are confident of our ability
to deliver value to shareholders.
OVERVIEW
During 2004, Ukrproduct Group continued
to demonstrate sustained growth. We are
maintaining our momentum and are a step
ahead of the competition. During the year under
review, we successfully launched many
initiatives to create a strong, integrated food and
service group. These included construction
of a new cheese production facility, corporate
restructuring of the Group and further expansion
of our distribution network.
The Group successfully achieved the challenging
targets set out by the Board and remains one of
the most profitable and dynamic food businesses
in Ukraine. Net sales increased by 54%,
to £27 million, accompanied by improved profit
margins. Excellent progress has been made in
our core business segments, adding a further
10% and 5% respectively to our already leading
positions in the Ukrainian processed cheese and
packaged butter markets.
STRATEGY
Our long-term ability to compete in the constantly
and evolving business environment will depend
crucially on developing the Group’s product
offering to customers. Having grown organically
to become the leader in our core business
segments, we now need to pick up the pace
of investment in order to remain competitive
in the future. 
On the production side, the Group continues to
develop its core capabilities and aims to expand
into another attractive area. The Group has for
some time been analysing potential investment
opportunities in the large, higher-margin and
fast-growing hard cheese sector. We intend to
secure a foothold in this area during 2006–2007. 
On the service side, the Group plans to capitalise
on its existing distribution network and to
develop further the logistics and supply chain
management services offered to third parties.
This business activity is becoming increasingly
important for companies operating in Ukraine,
where the supply chain development is in its
infancy; due to high domestic economic growth,
demand for these services is growing rapidly.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The current Board was formed during the year
to address strategic issues and to provide overall
guidance for the management of the Group.
The Board is committed to ensuring best
practice in corporate governance, through the
monitoring and development of appropriate
internal controls. With regards to the Board
composition going forward, Paul Williams
decided not to offer himself for election as a
Director in order to be able to pursue other
business interests. I am grateful to Paul for 
his contribution to the success of the Group’s
flotation on AIM this year and, on behalf of the
Board, wish him every success in the future. 
2004 has been an eventful year for both
management and staff, and on behalf of the
Board I would like to express my appreciation
for their efforts, which are essential to the 
Group’s continuing success.
Dr Jack Rowell OBE
Non-executive Chairman
3 June 2005
02
OUR PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL, TOGETHER WITH THE
SUCCESS IN A DYNAMICALLY EVOLVING ENVIRONMENT,
SUPPORTS OUR CONFIDENCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE
TO IMPROVE PERFORMANCE YET FURTHER, FOR THE
LONG-TERM BENEFIT OF SHAREHOLDERS.
_02_UKR_arf_04.qxd  31/05/2005  10:56  Page 02
