 UKRPRODUCT GROUP LTD
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 03
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
2004 was a breakthrough year for the Group.
Continuing modernisation of the plants,
expanded geographic coverage of sales, further
expansion of the Group’s market share and
further margin growth in the core segments
are all the welcome hallmarks of a dynamically
developing business.
The structuring of our activities prior to our
admission to AIM allowed your Board to improve
the Group’s business processes and to attain
significant gains in operating efficiency. In May,
the Group commenced the construction of
a new, state-of-the-art manufacturing facility
at Molochnik, the Group’s flagship plant for
processed cheese in Zhitomyr. The building
programme is expected to take a year, after
which production capacity will increase to
2,000 tonnes of processed cheese per month.
This will be the largest ever capacity increase
in the Group’s history – and it will strengthen
the Group’s position as the leading processed
cheese manufacturer in Ukraine. Additionally,
our rapid expansion necessitated the
establishment of Ukrproduct Logistics, the
Group’s division dedicated both to the logistical
support of other Group companies and to the
provision of transport and distribution services
to third parties. This service component of the
Group’s business is of growing importance and
we are keen to expand this area into a major
profit-generating centre.
OPERATING REVIEW
Throughout the period, Molochnik performed
well, producing 12,300 (FY2003: 6,700) tonnes
of processed cheese and 6,100 (FY2003:
4,450) tonnes of packaged butter. Our second
manufacturing facility at Starakonstantinov
produced 3,500 (FY2003: 2,990) tonnes
of skimmed milk powder and 3,100 (FY2003:
1,700) tonnes of packaged butter. Although
Ukrproduct’s market position strengthened in
all product segments, processed cheese sales
did exceptionally well, and we believe our
market share is now close to 33%.
In September 2004, a new regional distribution
centre in Kharkiv became operational – another
step in the development of our pan-Ukrainian
distribution network. This now comprises eight
regional depots and a central warehouse in
Zhitomyr. The rapid growth of the Group was
supported by further development of the existing
distribution network and the launch of direct
delivery and merchandising programmes in five
big cities, each with a population of over one
million – Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kyiv, Lviv
and Odessa.
The Group continued its successful practice
of the forward storage of raw milk derivatives,
thereby benefiting from the differentials in protein
content and prices, between summer and winter
seasons. This practice ensures stability of
supply of raw materials for the whole year. The
total amount used in forward storage was 1,700
tonnes in the year under review. In 2005, we
plan to increase this figure to 4,000 tonnes in
order to satisfy growing demand.
MARKET
The dairy-based foods market in Ukraine
continues to register accelerated growth,
supported by sustained growth of consumer
purchasing power, as well as by the increasing
sophistication of producers’ offerings. Even after
years of double-digit growth, per capita
consumption of dairy-based foods remains
relatively low in Ukraine in comparison with
other East European countries. This indicates
the potential of this market for the future.
Although the competition in our principal
segments is gradually increasing, the Group’s
business model provides a platform for the
maintenance of its leading position.
PROSPECTS
Development of new business opportunities
has been a key point of focus for the Board
and management team during the year.
The growth of the hard cheese market and
its relatively high level of fragmentation has
created an opportunity for the Group to enter this
segment, based on using our traditional strengths
in production, quality control, branding and
distribution. We are currently assessing options
for construction of a brand-new hard cheese
plant, to become operational in 2006/2007.
As part of the Group’s quality improvement
plans we are also planning to install a new
standardisation line for raw materials at
Molochnik in summer 2005.
THE YEAR MARKED A SUBSTANTIAL STEP FORWARD
IN ALL GROUP ACTIVITIES.
_02_UKR_arf_04.qxd  31/05/2005  10:56  Page 03 UKRPRODUCT GROUP LTD
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT continued
Growing volumes of the distribution of both own
produce and third-party goods require that
Ukrproduct constantly upgrade its warehousing
facilities. The Group is now preparing a plan for
building a new hub warehouse near Zhitomyr
with a surface area of 20,000 square metres,
three-quarters of which will be temperature-
controlled. We plan to complete this project
in 2007.
Following the year end, the Company succeeded
in raising £6 million through a placing of its
shares on AIM in February 2005. We intend to
use these funds to augment our working capital,
to redeem our domestic high-coupon debt and
to facilitate the capital expenditure programme
which is essential for our expansion.
OUTLOOK
We have a clearly defined plan for further
development and growth, which is aimed at
maximising shareholder value.
We will continue to serve our customers by
focussing on quality, price and convenience.
Over the next few years we shall continue to
review the efficiency of our operations based on
scale, improved logistical and sales capabilities,
as well as via penetration of more profitable
business segments.
The year marked a substantial step forward in
all Group activities. This step would not have
been possible without the commitment and
dedication of each of our 1,200 employees.
I would like to thank them as a team and
each of them personally for their efforts and
contribution in sustaining Ukrproduct Group’s
leading position in our markets.
Sergey Evlanchik
Chief Executive Officer
3 June 2005
04
_02_UKR_arf_04.qxd  31/05/2005  10:56  Page 04
