 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
IN RETROSPECT, 2006 WAS A YEAR OF A FULL-BLOWN CRISIS FOR THE DAIRY INDUSTRY OF
UKRAINE. ALTHOUGH THE GROUP WAS ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE RUSSIAN IMPORT BAN
ON THE UKRAINIAN DAIRY PRODUCTS, WE MANAGED TO PRESERVE OUR CORE OPERATIONS
INTACT, TO CUT THE COSTS WHEREVER WE COULD, AND TO BUILD STRONG BASE FOR
GROWTH IN THE FUTURE.
Results
In the context of this challenging environment, I am pleased to announce the Group’s annual
results for 2006. Sales were ‡35.1 million, down from ‡39.9 million in the previous year. On a
comparable basis, EBITDA is reported at ‡2.8 million, as against ‡3.5 million (‡2.9 million
1
) in
the previous year. Profit before tax was ‡1.2 million compared to ‡2.3 million (‡1.8 million
1
) in
2005. Significantly, gross profit margin improved to 20.7% from 16.9% in 2005.
As one of Ukraine’s leading dairy producers, we are ingrained in the fabric of the country’s
business environment. As a significant food exporter, we are also dependent on world markets
and international politics. Imposed in January 2006, the Russian import ban on Ukrainian dairy
products was as much a political decision as it was a turning point for the entire dairy industry of Ukraine. Under huge pricing
pressure and a massive transfer of value to the consumers, Ukrproduct Group successfully resisted the industry-wide price
reductions. I am delighted to confirm that this strategy has worked well – the Group can report trading results for 2006 that are
broadly in line with the pre-crisis results for 2005.
Dividends
The Group is committed to a balanced dividend policy whereby the shareholders are rewarded in line with the trading performance
while a balance between reinvesting profits and dividend distributions is maintained. As a result, the Board is recommending a final
dividend payment of 0.51 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2006 which would lead to 0.61 pence per
ordinary share for the full year. If approved at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29 June 2007 to shareholders on the
register as at 1 June 2007.
Strategy
Ukrproduct Group continued with its strategy of developing and retaining its market position
in two core product segments – processed cheese and packaged butter. These will be
supplemented soon by hard cheese – a product that we expect will play a key role in
expanding the Group’s range and in helping to retain and expand the customer base.
The Group’s manufacturing capability remains one of the most up-to-date in Ukraine; a
significant amount of capital expenditure was dedicated this year to both building the new
hard cheese plant and to improving the existing asset base to ensure high quality of the
product offering. The largest single asset put into operation in 2006 was the new skimmed
milk powder (SMP) production facility – this is a timely addition to the Group’s existing SMP
capacity in the midst of a very favourable price trend in the world market.
Brands remain the backbone of our business but it is true to say that this year they have had
to withstand a number of challenges. Intense price pressure, a glut of substitute products in
the market and more discerning consumers have all combined to provide for the most
challenging trading environment in years. Under these conditions, the Group’s premier brands
such as “Our Dairyman” retained their leading market positions and substantially improved
margins. We are dedicated to strengthening our core brands, as well as cautiously nurturing
new brands in hard cheese.
Our distribution network, as in prior years, played a key role in supporting the Group’s sales.
While retail chains develop dynamically in Ukraine, the more traditional channels of
distribution, such as open-air markets, continue to play a material role in selling the Group’s
products. Our distribution subsidiaries throughout Ukraine provide valuable services, and
supply the Group’s executives with quality feedback on most recent developments. We are
satisfied with the current distribution arrangements and in the future we shall be making every
1
 In brackets are comparable alternate prior year figures adjusted for the foreign exchange gain on translation
differences 3
effort to make sure that this distribution structure is supported and maintained.
Since becoming a public company in 2005, the Group has undergone a substantial transformation and is now a vertically integrated,
pan-Ukrainian operator with a significant asset base and leading domestic market shares in processed cheese and packaged butter.
We are also encouraged by our established export operations.
On behalf of the Board, it is with pride and confidence that I congratulate everyone at the Group for their steadfast achievements in
what was a very trying business environment last year. Success is built by people and for people – I am extremely confident that the
coming years will see the significant results of our joint effort.
Jack Rowell
Chairman
23 April 2007
