 3 3
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
IN 2006, UKRPRODUCT GROUP COMBATTED THE ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES OF THE
RUSSIAN IMPORT BAN ON UKRAINIAN DAIRY PRODUCTS AND FINISHED THE YEAR
WITH GOOD OPERATING PROFIT AND A STRONG BALANCE SHEET. IN AN EXTREMELY
CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENT, WE STRENGTHENED THE GROUP’S ASSET BASE,
RETAINED ITS MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS AND PRESERVED THE GROUP’S CORE
DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITY. BY IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF EARNINGS, WE BELIEVE
THAT FOUNDATIONS HAVE BEEN BUILT FOR HEALTHY ORGANIC GROWTH IN THE FUTURE.
Introduction
Much as we are used to the vibrant nature of Ukraine’s business environment, 2006 proved
exceptionally volatile by any measure. The year started with introduction by the Russian
veterinary authorities, of what effectively became an import ban on Ukrainian dairy products.
Remaining in force throughout the year, the ban was the year-defining event. It most profoundly
affected the Ukrainian manufacturers of hard cheese; in particular, those who traditionally
supplied close to 100% of their output to Russia. Suddenly deprived of the long-accustomed
access to the Russian market, these manufacturers dramatically increased supply into the
Ukraine domestic market resulting in substantially reduced prices for hard cheeses. Although
Ukrproduct Group did not produce hard cheese or export to Russia at the time, the indirect
effects of significant oversupply were felt by the Group almost immediately. Some of the
surplus in hard cheese was re-processed into soft cheese thus flooding the Group’s core
markets and putting intense price pressure on its entire product range. Product substitution
effect also had a negative impact: given the plentiful supply of low-priced (albeit often low-
quality) hard cheese, some customers switched from processed cheese in favour of hard
cheese.
In their totality, by mid-year all these developments caused a significant deterioration of
the business environment for the entire dairy industry in Ukraine. In the first six months
of the year, basic product prices remained low and the determination of dairy producers
to maintain sales volumes added to pricing pressures. In this situation, Ukrproduct
Group, although better positioned than some of its competitors to withstand these
pressures, was unable to prevent the first monthly operating loss in its history in May.
Moreover, further margin compression resulted in June and July.
As an immediate response to these pressures, a cost rationalisation programme was
launched, resulting by September in a significant improvement of the Group’s financial
position and a leaner cost base. In parallel, as a matter of business principle, the Board
adopted a strategy of maintaining margins at the sake of volume sales, in particular, by
reducing its presence at open-air markets which traditionally had been a high volume
outlet for processed cheese and butter but at margins lower than those achievable in
other areas.  In the remainder of the year, our strategy proved successful and, despite
lower sales volumes for processed cheese, margins and volumes in every other product
were maintained.  In particular, sales of packaged butter finished the year at a similar
volume to the previous year and at better margins.  Our emphasis, at all times, on quality
found favour with consumers who, encouragingly, appear to be prepared to pay a higher
price for a better quality product.  Throughout the entire year, sales of skimmed milk
powder (“SMP”), our third major product, remained strong although depressed world
prices impacted upon margins in the first half.  The second half, however, proved reasonably
successful as the concurrent droughts in the US and Australia reduced the supply of SMP to
the world market and lead to increased prices.
As a result of these developments, the Group’s sales of ‡35.1 million in 2006 were below those
of 2005. However, we believe the quality of sales and earnings have been substantially enhanced
and, as a consequence of our firm decision to preserve profitability, gross margins have
improved at the gross level to 20.7% in 2006 from 16.9% in the previous year.
Overall, it is my firm belief that not only did we finish 2006 in much better financial shape
than an overwhelming majority of competitors in Ukraine but we also managed to achieve
greater efficiencies throughout the entire business of the Group. 5
Operating review
In the 2005 Annual Report, we noted “slowing GDP growth and weaker consumer spending” in Ukraine. Subsequently, the economy
appeared to gather steam but, by the middle of the year it was clear that food consumption was not going to recover to the levels
observed in 2003-2005; consecutive increases in gas and electricity prices and accumulation of mortgage and personal debts
combined to put pressure on consumers’ food budgets.
Against this background for food consumption, we are pleased with the production and sales of the Group. Production of processed
cheese was 12,800 tonnes (2005: 14,700 tonnes) while output of packaged butter remained stable at 9,200 tonnes in both 2006 and
2005. Production of milk powder also increased during the year totalling over 4,000 tonnes (2005: 3,700 tonnes).
During the year, operating developments of the Group continued according to plan.
Notwithstanding the challenging business environment, the capital expenditure programme continued as planned. The majority of
expenditure was deployed in the building of a new hard-cheese plant at the site of one of our operating plants, Starkon. The hard-
cheese plant is scheduled to become fully operational in May 2007, with trial batches coming off in June and full capacity likely to be
achieved by the end of the year. When fully operational, the plant will be producing up to 3,600 tonnes of hard cheese annually.
Encouragingly, the trading environment and timing for our entry into the domestic hard cheese market appears very favourable for
the Group as small-scale manufacturers are increasingly being put out of business by a combination of high raw milk prices,
inadequate product quality and an inability to reach customers efficiently. With our national network, we believe the Group is much
better positioned to mitigate these factors and to capitalise on the opportunities that the hard cheese segment offers.
Another important capital expenditure item was the installation, in December 2006, of the new SMP dryer at the Starkon plant. The
timing of its installation proved fortunate as, by the end of 2006,  world SMP prices recovered. The new SMP dryer has nearly
doubled the Group’s SMP production capacity and, most importantly, allowed the Group to produce an output of excellent quality
with broader customer acceptance. At the beginning of 2007, the new installation was running at full capacity and is expected to
provide the Group with further significant sales in 2007.
As in the previous year, the Group’s distribution capability was a cornerstone of our performance in 2006. We made selective
investments in our distribution subsidiaries which, in turn, provided the guidance and support to the Group’s sales team in
strengthening relationships with leading retailers. We are seeing the results of our continuing efforts as retailers are keen to retain
and support pan-Ukrainian food manufacturers. At this stage of development, the organised retail chains in Ukraine are keenly
interested in securing a reliable supply of quality foods to their stores.  The directors of the company are aiming for  Ukrproduct
Group to be a partner of choice for such retailers.
Prospects
The Board believes that the Group’s core markets in Ukraine of processed cheese and packaged butter have reached a certain level of
maturity. Consumption-only driven growth has moderated and is unlikely to deliver substantial benefits to the Group. The Board is
looking for future growth by expanding the Group’s market share in traditional products, entering adjacent markets and exploiting
opportunities outside of Ukraine. We are keen to pursue all these routes.
Domestically in Ukraine, our market share in processed cheese and packaged butter should remain intact. Although still challenged
by low-quality, low-price producers, we are observing a gradual return to more normal trading patterns. Stable quality and
predictability of supply from Ukrproduct Group remain the major factors of attraction for emerging retail chains.
Over the years, Ukrproduct Group has paid particular attention to building a vertically integrated operation to maintain the stability of
sales and profitability, notwithstanding the fluctuations in the operating environment. Our industrial assets are now capable of
producing all semi-processed materials required for production of processed cheese and butter; with the launch of the hard-cheese
plant we will extend the value-added chain into reprocessing of whey and production of whey powder. Various stages of our value-
added process help the Group to remain a balanced dairy producer thus securing the overall stability of business.
Another important aspect of our business is customer differentiation. When developing the Group’s distribution capability in the
years of fast growth, we have always kept in mind various customer segments and distribution channels. Some of these channels,
such as independent distributors, have been – and largely remain – reliable partners; their margins are determined by their ability to
deliver agreed sales targets with planned margins. Some other channels, such as open-air markets and small shops, have proved
more of a challenge from the viewpoint of cost of service and margins. Recognising differences in customer requirements, we have
divided our product trademarks among various distribution channels. Such trademarks as “Our Dairyman” and “Kremlin” will only be
supplied to the retail distribution channels whereas “People’s Product”, “Nash CyrOK” and “Divogray” will be channelled through
open-air markets. This division allows the Group to cater to different customer audiences and maintain a cost-effective balance
between customer value and profitability.
Our brand portfolio is another important facet of our business. We believe our brands preserve our sales base and secure profit 6
margins by ensuring customer recognition and delivering a price premium over comparable products. During times of intense price
pressure, our brands such as “Our Dairyman” have maintained volumes and the margins. Two new brands will be introduced with the
launch of our own hard cheese production in May this year. These brands will be positioned in the quality segment of the market.
Outlook
Following the events of 2006, the executive team intends to put a renewed emphasis on the development of branded quality products
for the medium and high-income consumers. For the first time in the Group’s history, our major new initiative – the entry into the
hard cheese market – will be specifically intended for high-end customers. In our other core segments, we are following a similar
approach and are keen to move products upwards both in terms of customer value and price. Our approach is balanced; we are
conscious that dairy products are staple food for the majority of the population, thus any upmarket initiative must be based on the
strength and recognition of our core brands. Importantly, the upmarket product segments have very high entry barriers as capital
expenditure and quality requirements are substantial. Over recent years, we have conducted a substantial modernisation programme
of the Group’s plants resulting in a solid asset base.  We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalise on the growing taste for
quality foods among Ukrainian consumers.
On the basis of our expertise in launching new products and building dairy plants, we are currently working on an expansion
programme for the next five years.
2006 was a significant test of the Group’s ability to progress in a fast-changing, demanding business environment. Our response to
this test gives us confidence for the future.
Iryna Yevets
Chief Executive Officer
23 April 2007
