 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
UNDENIABLY, YEAR 2007 HAS BEEN THE BEST ON RECORD FOR UKRPRODUCT GROUP. WE HAVE
CAPITALISED ON THE NEWLY EXPANDED CAPACITY IN SKIMMED MILK POWDER, COMPLETED THE
NEW HARD CHEESE PLANT, RESTORED SALES AND PRODUCTION VOLUMES IN PROCESSED CHEESE,
RATIONALISED DISTRIBUTION NETWORK AND STRENGTHENED THE GROUP’S MILK COLLECTION
SYSTEM. FINANCIAL RESULTS REFLECTED THESE ACHIEVEMENTS BY DEMONSTRATING TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS THE VALUE OF THE GROUP’S CORE BUSINESS.
Background
The year under review was the first year following the crisis in the dairy industry of Ukraine inflicted by
the Russian import ban in 2006. Without a doubt, 2007 was a period of full-scale recovery for
Ukrproduct Group. Helped by the encouraging trends in skimmed milk powder worldwide, the Group
jump-started a gradual recovery of the domestic volumes in processed cheese as well. Butter volumes
held up very well throughout the year, just as the management team expected at the outset. The
margins on this product have improved, reflecting the continuous effort by management to leverage the
brands in the portfolio. Hard cheese, our new flagship product, started well and is now in production.
We now have the requisite experience and inventories to carry on an introduction of the product to the
shelves of supermarkets in Ukraine.
Operating review
The year started well with the rapid and significant increase in the export prices for skimmed milk
powder (SMP) on the world markets. The Group’s increased SMP capacity allowed for an immediate
intake of new orders which resulted in the capacity utilisation rate being close to 100% in April-June
2007. Throughout this period, the Group increased the supply of raw milk correspondingly to allow for
greater quality and quantity of the manufactured skimmed milk. By mid 2007, the price increase in SMP
prices subsided and the prices remained at the high level. In the second half of the year, there was a
gradual reduction in demand with the accompanying drop in price. Overall for the year, an average
selling price for a tonne of skimmed milk powder sold by the Group was some 83% higher than in the
previous year.
Domestically, the sales of our main products, soft (processed) cheese and packaged butter, continued a
steady recovery albeit at slightly different speeds. In soft cheese, the price-depressing effects in the
aftermath of the Russian import embargo continued to hamper the revival of volumes although the
price recovery went well. Competitive landscape in Ukraine remained chaotic and unpredictable to a
large extent; a number of smaller and mid-tier players displayed the signs of financial distress which
they attempted to overcome by diminishing quality and reducing prices. The Group’s response to such
attempts was to keep a steady flow of good-quality products at reasonable prices and to ensure the
continuing presence of products on the shelves of supermarkets. This strategy worked well, in our
view, and by the end of the year the Group’s volumes in soft cheese experienced the dynamics not seen
since 2004-2005. The smoked sausage cheese, in particular, has been a bright spot. A relatively new
product for the Group, it now accounts for close to 30% of the total soft cheese sales and continues to
grow. As a result, the Group’s overall domestic sales have grown and are expected to grow further due
to the continuing expansion of the supermarkets.
The new product category, hard cheese, was moving into production by the end of the year. The initial
trials of the product were very encouraging as the quality differentiated the Group’s hard cheese from
competitors’ offerings. For the reasons of profit maximisation due to the extremely favourable world
market conditions for skimmed milk powder in 2007, it was decided to divert the supply of raw milk to
production of skimmed milk powder – the strategy that worked very well for the company and
investors. Starting from the beginning of 2008, we expect milk volumes to rise substantially to provide
increasing input for the volumes of hard cheese. The quality of our hard cheese is now sufficient to
safeguard the Group’s brand standards and to provide customers with a first-class product.
Our capex programme for the year was fully reflective of the recovery mode. The emphasis was on the
maintenance of capex, as well as on drawdown of the pre-committed expenditures for the year. The 7
hard cheese plant at Starkon was completed in July, a new smoke room was deployed to Molochnik in
August, and a new set of equipment for whey purification was installed at Starkon in November. In
total, capital expenditure was materially lower in 2007 than in either of the last two years. This
approach safeguarded the Group’s cash position and had the benefit of helping the Group remain
financially secure at a time of the credit markets turmoil.
Our distribution system, while remaining the backbone of the Group’s business model, has had to
adapt to the new requirements. The development of the modern retail formats in Ukraine is both an
opportunity and a challenge. It is an opportunity because there is an on-going inevitable shift of
consumers towards supermarkets away from the open-air markets. The Group is keen to capitalise on
this opportunity by delivering good quality products and providing consistent service to the emerging
retail players. It is also a challenge because the centralised distribution warehouses do not exist for a
majority of supermarkets in Ukraine. Therefore, the Group is expected to provide retail customers with
efficient yet economical distribution support. With this principle in mind, we have determined that the
distribution subsidiary in Ternopil, Western Ukraine had to be closed. The closure did not affect the
existing sales in the larger Western Ukraine as the client lists have been transferred to the Lviv
subsidiary. In the future, we believe that a selective optimisation of the distribution system will become
a feature of the on-going corporate rationalisation programme.
Our system for the supply of raw milk and raw milk ingredients proved itself capable of handling
significantly larger quantities of input than a year before. We have been developing the milk collection
system for over seven years now and we believe that we have one of the best milk supply chains in the
country. Being a traditionally favourable region for milk production, Western Ukraine where our major
plants are located, offers significant opportunities for further expansion of the milk collection capacity
of the Group in the future.
Looking forward
In the opinion of the Board, the Group’s core domestic markets in Ukraine are still offering attractive
opportunities for business development. Ukraine remains a dynamically developing, vibrant economic
environment with rising consumer affluence and burgeoning interest in quality food products. It has
been the Group’s business to develop such products and bring them to the consumers, and we are
hopeful to be able to continue our progress for every product segment of our operations. In our
traditional products, soft cheese and packaged butter, we remain the market leader and have full intent
of being there for a long time. The major thrust of the management efforts in the near future will be
directed at maximising the production capacities in these segments. In skimmed milk powder, we are
certain that the times of increased volatility will be succeeded by times of excellent opportunities such
as the year under review. Our particular emphasis in the coming years is the development and firm
establishment of our new product, hard cheese, in the Ukrainian marketspace. The initial steps are
encouraging and we are looking forward to the continuation of work in this direction. In particular, our
new upmarket brand “Molendam” will be introduced to the consumers soon and leveraged in hard
cheeses (for which it was primarily designed), as well as in processed cheese and butter. We anticipate
that this brand will improve margins considerably.
I would like to express my gratitude to everyone at the Group who made the last year such a prominent
success. Together, we are looking forward to the new exciting future of opportunities and growth.
Sergey Evlanchik
Chief Executive Officer
22 April 2008
