 I am pleased to report that Ultra has enjoyed
an excellent year with record sales and profit.
The order book is at a new high reflecting
the continuing growth in the business and
major orders won in 2002. Importantly, Ultra
has continued to meet its commitments
across the range of its major defence
programmes. Ultra’s strategic objectives
remain to concentrate on growth in its niche
aerospace and defence markets and to make
acquisitions of complementary businesses.
Sales were 8.7% higher at £260.4m despite
the softness in the civil aircraft market. This
strong sales growth reflected Ultra’s focus on
the expanding defence electronics sector
and, in total, military sales now represent
over 80% of turnover. Profit before tax and
amortisation of goodwill grew by 10.6% to
£29.9m whilst earnings per share before
goodwill amortisation increased by 9.1% to
33.2p in 2002.
The continued international development of
Ultra is demonstrated by the growing
importance of North America as a market,
now representing almost 40% of Group sales.
Once again, I am delighted to report a very
strong cash performance, and especially
pleasing is the cash conversion ratio of 116%.
Net debt at £39.3m leaves Ultra with ample
resources from which to make further
targeted acquisitions. New syndicated banking
facilities established during the year have
reinforced the Group’s ﬁnancial strength.
Based on this year’s profit performance,
the Board is recommending a dividend
increase of 7.7% to give a total dividend
of 11.2p per share.
In 2002, Ultra made a substantial acquisition,
Tactical Communication Systems (TCS), a
manufacturer of military radios based in
Montreal, Canada, for £21.5m before
expenses. With a similar customer base to
other Ultra companies and with many
opportunities to win business internationally,
TCS is an excellent complementary ﬁt for Ultra.
The Group had considerable success during
2002 in winning large orders in its core
business areas. This reﬂects the excellent
long-term relationships that Ultra has with its
key customers worldwide. The largest
contract secured by Ultra to date was a
programme to develop, supply and support a
system to protect Royal Navy surface ships
from attack by torpedoes. This contract
utilises the combined strength of several Ultra
businesses. Additionally, the Group won a
contract from BAE Systems to supply bow
sonars for the Royal Navy’s new Type 45
destroyer. Ultra has supplied the UK MoD
with its sonobuoys for many years and this
position is now being reinforced by
negotiations for a ten-year partnership
agreement with MoD to develop and supply
sonobuoys exclusively.
The outlook for civil aerospace remains dull
and a recovery in demand for new aircraft is
not expected in the next twelve months.
There are, however, a number of airport
investment programmes underway, some
reflecting the requirement for enhanced
security. Ultra is winning orders for electronic
systems in these areas. Demand for defence
electronics is growing strongly, particularly in
the USA, and Battlespace IT equipment
remains a high priority for military
expenditure. Ultra’s expertise in supplying
electrical power conversion equipment for
rapid transit rail systems in the United
Kingdom also holds significant potential.
With an order book at the year-end of
£348m and with headroom for further
acquisitions, the Board is confident of the
outlook for the current year and beyond.
Finally, I would like to thank all Ultra
employees for their continuing commitment
and for their contribution to the success of
the Group.
Peter Macfarlane Chairman
Ultra Electronics at a glance 
ADVANCED PROGRAMMING CONCEPTS
▲ Battlespace IT solutions. Software based data
fusion and display systems for applications in
military command, control, communications,
computers, intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance (C
4
ISR) systems.
COMMAND & CONTROL SYSTEMS
■ Battlespace IT solutions. Geographical
information management systems. Data link
communication systems. Multifunction
console systems with integrated application
software and ﬂat panel displays for command
and control. Weapon interface electronics.
CONTROLS DIVISION
■ Landing gear control systems. Propeller 
de-icing, balancing and control systems.
Supervisory engine controls.
DATEL DEFENCE
■ High integrity systems including safety
critical software, Internet-based shared
working environments and secure
communication networks.
ELECTRICS DIVISION
■ Specialised control handles, high integrity
switches and indicators, lighting systems.
Ruggedised cable harnesses. Data
management and vision control systems for
armoured vehicles.
EMS
▲ Specialised power supplies and demagnetising
systems for the electromagnetic silencing of
naval vessels. 
FASL
■ Airport IT system integration. IT services 
and solutions for airlines and airports: 
central database (UltraDB); flight 
information (UltraFIDS); management
information (UltraMIS); passenger bag
matching (UltraTrak); resource 
management (UltraResource); data
acquisition and control (UltraControl).
FLIGHTLINE SYSTEMS
▲ Sonobuoy telemetry receivers for 
maritime patrol aircraft and helicopters.
Mechanical gyroscopes.
MANUFACTURING & CARD SYSTEMS
■▲
High integrity contract manufacturing. The
Magicard range of identity card printers.
MARITIME SYSTEMS
▲ Passive sonobuoys and bathythermal 
buoys. Towed array sonars. High power
sonar transducers.
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS INC
▲ Displacement and force joysticks, hand 
grip controls, trackballs, encoders and
simulation equipment.
NOISE & VIBRATION SYSTEMS
■ Civil and military aircraft cabin quieting
systems using active noise and vibration
control technology.
PMES
■ High power solid state power conversion and
control equipment. Naval data processing and
distribution systems. Transit system power
conversion and control.
PRECISION AIR SYSTEMS
■▲
High pressure pure air generators (HiPPAG)
for cooling thermal imagers and infra red
sensors, and for pneumatic ejection of
aircraft munitions. Sidewinder missile
overhaul and repair.
SIGNATURE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
■ Multi-influence measurement ranges for
measuring complex signatures of naval
vessels. Magnetic sensors, instruments and
ship demagnetising systems.
SONAR & COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
■ Active and passive sonobuoys. Sonobuoy
receivers and acoustic processors for
maritime patrol aircraft and helicopters. Ship
sonar systems. Torpedo defence systems and
countermeasures. Data link communication
systems. Cryptographic equipment.
TACTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
▲ High capacity, multi-channel line-of-sight
radios. Electronic counter-counter measure
radio systems. Multiplexers and switches.
UNDERSEA SENSOR SYSTEMS INC
▲ Active and passive sonobuoys. Advanced
autonomous sensor systems for coastal
surveillance. Hydrophones.
■ Businesses in the UNITED KINGDOM
▲ Businesses in NORTH AMERICA
ULTRA ELECTRONICS SPECIALISES IN THE DESIGN, MANUFACTURE AND SUPPORT
OF ELECTRONIC AND ELECTROMECHANICAL SYSTEMS, SUB-SYSTEMS AND
PRODUCTS FOR AIRCRAFT, SHIPS, SUBMARINES, ARMOURED VEHICLES, AIRPORTS
AND TRANSPORT SYSTEMS.
THE ORDER BOOK IS AT A NEW HIGH REFLECTING
THE CONTINUING GROWTH IN THE BUSINESS AND
MAJOR ORDERS WON IN 2002.
TACTICAL 
Chairman’s Statement
Peter Macfarlane, Chairman
capability
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03 02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 
SONAR INFORMATION
1011010
0110
011101
010
101
AIRCRAFT 
& VEHICLES 
POWER
1011010
0110
011101
010
101
1011010
0110
011101
010
101
1011010
0110
011101
010
101
1011010
0110
011101
010
101
