 Successes in the year included the award of
the largest contract received by the Group 
to date and the signing of a partnership
intent memorandum on sonobuoys with the
Defence Procurement Agency of the UK
Ministry of Defence (MoD).
Group strategy
The Group continues to focus its strategy on
being a niche supplier of electronic systems
and products in defence and aerospace
markets. In order to strengthen its niche
positions, the Group continued its high level
of investment in the application of advanced
technology to create new products in its
chosen markets, coupled with the acquisition
of complementary businesses. Ultra’s 2002
results show the success of this strategy
through both the operating results reported
and the Group’s record order book at the
year-end.
Acquisition
In accordance with its strategy, in September
2002 Ultra completed the acquisition of
MilComm, now renamed Tactical
Communication Systems (TCS), for C$53m
(£21.5m) before expenses. TCS, based in
Montreal, Canada, designs and manufactures
military high bandwidth line-of-sight radios, a
critical part of command and control systems.
Major customers include the US Department
of Defense (DoD), the UK MoD and the
Korean armed forces. TCS strengthens Ultra’s
position in Battlespace IT, an area of
increasing military expenditure, and
complements its existing data link activities.
Group results
Sales increased to £260.4m, (2001: £239.5m),
a rise of 8.7%, of which 5.8% was organic.
This encouraging sales increase was
achieved despite the translation impact of
the weaker US dollar without which growth
would have been 2% higher. Sales growth
was driven primarily by a rising demand for
Battlespace IT systems, an increase in the
delivery of anti-submarine warfare
equipment and higher production of the
HiPPAG missile cooling product. Sales of civil
aerospace products declined in line with
both the reduction of Airbus aircraft
deliveries and reduced demand for spares
and repairs from airlines as they attempted
to move back into profit. However, Ultra’s
civil aerospace business, including the
airport IT activity, represented less than 
12% of the Group’s 2002 sales.
The operating margin, before the amortisation
of goodwill, was 12.9%, slightly below that
recorded in 2001. This margin reduction
resulted mainly from the lower level of civil
aerospace spares and repairs activity during
the period. Operating proﬁt, before the
amortisation of goodwill, increased by 5.6%,
while proﬁt before tax and amortisation rose
by 10.6% to £29.9m (2001: £27.1m). The
effective tax rate for the Group was 1%
higher at 27.1%. As a result, earnings per
share before goodwill amortisation were
9.1% higher at 33.2p (2001: 30.5p, as
restated following the adoption of FRS 19).
Operating cash ﬂow was very strong at
£38.7m (2001: £35.2m) after capital
expenditure, with an operating proﬁt to
operating cash ﬂow conversion of 116%.
†
This brings the average conversion ratio 
over the past ﬁve years to 85%. Despite 
the acquisition of TCS for £21.5m (before
expenses), net debt during the year decreased
by £1.3m to £39.3m (2001: £40.6m).
The Group’s order book at the year-end
stood at a record level of £348m, an
increase of 10% compared to the same
point last year (2001: £315m). This
represents the equivalent of approximately
15 months of future sales.
Air & Land Systems
Air & Land Systems, with the addition of TCS,
comprises eleven businesses in the UK and
North America that supply advanced
technology products for military aircraft and
land vehicles, the anti-submarine warfare
market and the civil aerospace market.
Sales growth in the division was 7.5% to
£177.5m (2001: £165.1m). Organic growth
was 3.4%. Operating proﬁt before goodwill
amortisation was £22.5m (2001: £24.1m).
Reduced civil aerospace spares and repair
activity, combined with the completion of
deliveries to the US Navy of sonobuoys on
older low margin contracts, contributed to the
reduction in operating margin to 12.7% 
(2001: 14.6%). The effect was somewhat
mitigated, however, by the excellent growth of
HiPPAG deliveries for both the US Navy and
the Euroﬁghter programme.
The year produced a number of notable
successes. In March, Ultra was awarded a
£20m contract to develop and deliver the bow
sonar for the Royal Navy's Type 45 destroyer.
This was Ultra’s ﬁrst major ship sonar contract
and was achieved in collaboration with our US
partner, EDO Corporation. Further success in
an associated ﬁeld came with the award of
the main part of the Surface Ship Torpedo
Defence contract in July, bringing the total
contract value to £54m, Ultra’s largest single
contract to date.
In anti-submarine warfare, where Ultra is the
world’s largest supplier of sonobuoys, the
Group continued to increase its market share
of new orders with major contracts being won
in the US, the UK, Canada, France and
Australia. Ultra’s traditional dominance of the
export market for passive sonobuoys is now
being complemented by its ability to win
major active sonobuoy awards with a
competitive new design which recently
entered production.
In recognition of Ultra’s record in meeting its
commitments as a supplier of sonobuoys to
the MoD, a memorandum of intent to partner
has been signed between Ultra and the MoD.
The ﬁnal agreement, when signed, will bind
Ultra and the MoD together, with Ultra being
the developer and supplier of all sonobuoys
and derivative products to the MoD for a
period of at least ten years.
During the year, Ultra’s commitments were
met on the Nimrod, Euroﬁghter and Engineer
Tank System programmes, with development
milestones being achieved and deliveries being
made in a timely manner.
ULTRA ELECTRONICS AGAIN PRODUCED EXCELLENT
RESULTS IN 2002, ACHIEVING RECORD LEVELS OF SALES,
PROFIT AND ORDER INTAKE. CONFIRMING THE QUALITY
OF EARNINGS, THE CONVERSION OF OPERATING PROFIT
TO OPERATING CASH FLOW WAS 116%.
†
total commitment to our
customers and our
shareholders
Julian Blogh, Chief Executive
+11%
Profits
Profit before tax and amortisation
increased by 11% to £29.9m 
(2001: £27.1m)
Successful
strategy
Increased shareholder value through
organic growth in niche markets and
strategic acquisitions
+9%
Sales
Reﬂecting increased demand for
Battlespace IT systems, growth in sales
of Anti-Submarine Warfare equipment
and higher production of HiPPAG
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05
Chief Executive’s Review
†see definition on page 6 £348m
Order book
The order book of £348m, an increase
of 10%, represents the equivalent
of about 15 months of future sales
Information & Sea Systems
Information & Sea Systems consists of seven
businesses in the UK and North America that
supply information management and power
products for defence, commercial and airport
applications worldwide.
Divisional turnover was £82.9m (2001: £74.4m),
an increase of 11.3%, all of which was
organic. Operating profit, before the
amortisation of goodwill, rose by 43.9% to
£11.0m (2001: £7.6m). The operating margin
before amortisation was 13.3%, up from
10.3% in 2001. This resulted from increased
Battlespace IT activity, improved profitability
at the airport information systems business
and the completion of a number of Astute
equipment development programmes
allowing higher margins to be taken.
The division benefited from a rise in
government expenditure on Battlespace IT.
There was significant growth in Ultra’s US
activity in this area as efforts are made to
improve the situational awareness of
operating forces. Progress was also made in
the UK with the first order from the MoD
for the Group’s Air Defense Systems
Integrator. In a related area, BAE Systems
ordered command systems equipment for
the third contract of the Korean KDX
destroyer programme.
Ultra provides power systems for naval and
rail transit applications and, in October, initial
contracts were placed with the Group by
Network Rail to provide trackside power
equipment as part of the rail infrastructure
upgrade for the south of England. This is
expected to lead to an increasing involvement
by Ultra in this high investment sector.
While civil aerospace continues to operate
in a difficult environment, the need for 
long-term investment in airport
infrastructure remains, supplemented by
security concerns. Ultra’s work defining the
IT infrastructure for London Heathrow’s new
fifth terminal continued throughout the
year. In addition, there was an upturn in
demand for Ultra’s baggage reconciliation
system, and equipment was installed for
British Airways and Virgin Atlantic in their
North American terminals.
Finally, Ultra again met its commitments by
delivering on time initial equipment for the
Astute class submarine, and equipment for
the US Virginia class submarine and Air
Defense Systems Integrators for the DoD.
†Operating cash conversion is defined as being operating
cash flow less capital expenditure and financial
investment, as a percentage of operating profit before
goodwill amortisation.
Reporting in 2003
Ultra has expanded in capability, in products
and in the number of operating businesses
since its ﬂotation in 1996. Ultra’s two-
divisional reporting structure therefore no
longer adequately presents the Group in a
format related to its activities, neither does it
provide sufﬁcient detail. From the beginning
of 2003, the Group will report on the basis 
of three divisions, with the objective of
making Ultra easier to understand. The new
reporting structure is explained in more detail
on page 22.
Prospects
Increasing concerns about the activities of
rogue states and terrorist organisations is
driving an increase in defence expenditure in
many countries. In the US, the defence
procurement budget for 2003 has risen by
11%, while in the UK defence procurement is
also growing in real terms. Expenditure is
being concentrated on Battlespace IT,
unmanned vehicles for air, land and sea and
highly mobile systems. Through its continuing
investments, Ultra is well positioned to beneﬁt
from this activity. 
Major UK opportunities include: control
electronics for the UK’s submarine ﬂeet; a
new active search sonobuoy system;
electronics for new armoured vehicles and
Network Rail trackside power equipment. In
the US, new opportunities for Ultra are
presented through: the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter programme; the Small Diameter Bomb
programme and Battlespace IT activity. 
The civil aerospace market is not expected to
recover for at least the next twelve months
with Ultra’s sales in this market likely to
remain static over this period. However, with
this sector representing less than 12% of
Ultra’s total sales, this will not have a major
impact on performance. Overall, non-military
activity is expected to rise in absolute terms as
rail transit, airport IT and security product
sales increase.
The outlook for the Group remains strong,
recent important contract wins in the UK and
in export markets laying the foundations for
further business growth. With interest cover
before goodwill amortisation of 9.5 times in
2002, Ultra enters 2003 with the capacity to
continue its strategy of organic growth and
acquisition of complementary businesses in
order to strengthen its market niches. These
factors, coupled with the record closing order
book, give the Board conﬁdence in the
performance of the Group in 2003.
THE OUTLOOK FOR THE GROUP REMAINS STRONG,
WITH RECENT IMPORTANT CONTRACT WINS IN 
THE UK AND IN EXPORT MARKETS LAYING THE
FOUNDATIONS FOR FURTHER BUSINESS GROWTH.
116%
†
Cash performance
Cash ﬂow was very strong at £38.7m
(2001: £35.2m) with an operating
profit to operating cash conversion
of 116%
£54m
Largest ever contract received
Successes in the year included the
award of the largest contract received
by Ultra to date, valued at £54m
+9%
Earnings per share
Earnings per share were 9% higher 
at 33.2p (2001: 30.5p)
Orders 
Ultra increased its share of the
sonobuoy market with orders from
the US, the UK, Canada, France 
and Australia
Completed
Strategic acquisition
The acquisition of TCS strengthens
Ultra’s position in Battlespace IT
06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07
Chief Executive’s Review
Julian Blogh, Chief Executive
Partnership
with MoD
An intent to act in partnership has
been signed between Ultra and the
MoD for future sonobuoy supplies
Outlook
With an order book at the year-end
of £348m and the headroom for
further acquisitions, the Board is
confident of the outlook for the
current year and beyond The success of military operations is
dependent upon having secure and robust
communications. A key element of military
tactical communication systems is the wide
area network for voice and data transmission
between the various command levels in land
forces. An essential component of this
network is the microwave trunk radio which
provides the highway for the trafﬁc between
the system nodes. Ultra’s advanced radio
products serve as the backbone of modern
tactical line-of-sight networks. They provide
secure battleﬁeld trunk telephone and high
capacity data telecommunication services to
link battleﬁeld theatre commanders and their
combat forces.
To satisfy the high mobility needs of the
tactical environment, users are demanding
ever-greater transmission distances, increased
reliability and low error performance of the
link. Systems must also make efficient use of
the available radio spectrum. In satisfying all
of these requirements, Ultra has become a
world-leading supplier of high-capacity,
line-of-sight radio systems.
In a trend that mirrors the digitisation of the
commercial business environment, the
capabilities of the tactical communication
system must now accommodate an increasing
need for data-based communications,
including e-mail and near-real-time video
transmissions, in addition to the usual voice
communications. This supports the increasing
data content of modern command and
control systems which depend on the high
bandwidth wide area communications system.
To be tactically useful, communication needs
to be secure. Attempts will constantly be
made to intercept radio traffic or to jam
transmissions. The need for security can be
met through techniques such as frequency
hopping and encryption. By transmitting
data at different frequencies, the system can
reduce its susceptibility to enemy
interference or jamming. In addition, several
levels of data encryption can be provided
dependent on the nature of the information
being transmitted.
Ultra’s radio systems are state of the art 
and have been designed to meet user
requirements well into the 21st century.
In order to provide and maintain the most
up-to-date battlefield picture, real-time
video images of the battlespace and data
from other specialised sensors are captured
by surveillance equipment mounted in
manned and unmanned aerial vehicles.
These various data sources must be linked
together and the information passed to the
battlespace network. Ultra specialises in the
supply of data links to allow ground-based
operators to control multiple remotely
piloted aircraft simultaneously. In addition,
Ultra’s data links are used to transmit digital
battlespace information from aircraft to
ground based centres in real-time using
secure and robust communications.
TACTICAL
ULTRA IS COMMITTED TO BEING A WORLD-LEADING
SUPPLIER OF MILITARY TACTICAL COMMUNICATION
EQUIPMENT THAT PROVIDES ENHANCED CAPACITY
FOR VOICE, DATA AND VIDEO IMAGES.
effectivecommunication systems
08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09
15,000
Ultra has over 15,000 line-of-sight
tactical radio systems in use worldwide
– more than any other supplier
Chief Executive’s Review
meeting our commitment for…
Ultra’s advanced data link equipment for unmanned aircraft Specialist cryptography equipment for secure communications Ultra supplies secure battleﬁeld radio communication systems Submarines pose an enormous threat to
ships in wartime. Small, highly capable diesel
electric submarines are difficult to detect
especially when the underwater battlespace
is noisy, cluttered, shallow coastal waters.
Increasingly, though, this is where navies are
having to operate. The threat of torpedo
attack is ever present and, in times of war,
mines may litter the coastal waters.
Ultra is the world leader at designing and
supplying advanced sonobuoys, the highly
sensitive acoustic sensors that are dropped
from maritime patrol aircraft and helicopters.
Ultra supplies more than half of the western
world’s sonobuoys. Dropping an array of
active and passive sonobuoys into the sea
allows even the quietest target submarine to
be tracked and, if necessary, attacked. The
signal from the sonobuoy, carrying acoustic
information about the target, is relayed back
to an aircraft overhead where Ultra’s highly
sensitive acoustic receivers and processors
are used to evaluate the data. In the year,
Ultra upgraded the mission equipment on
the UK’s existing fleet of Nimrod MR2
aircraft and continued to supply systems for
the new MRA4 Nimrod.
In this underwater battlespace, Ultra’s
commitment to providing ever more capable,
cost-effective solutions has been rewarded in
2002. Ultra won all UK sonobuoy
requirements, half of the contracts in the
USA and Canada and important export
contracts from France, Australia and
Sweden. In late 2002, Ultra signed an intent
to act in partnership with the UK MoD
covering the development and procurement
of future sonobuoy and derivative systems.
Modern warships are equipped with sensitive
bow-mounted sonar equipment, a key
element of the ship’s own defences, which
can detect submarines in the area or mines
that are capable of disabling the ship if
triggered. Ultra was awarded a major
contract in the year to supply the UK’s new
Type 45 destroyer with its bow sonar system.
As a further layer of defence against torpedo
attack, ships can be equipped with a torpedo
defence system such as the Surface Ship
Torpedo Defence (SSTD) system. In 2002,
Ultra received the main contract to supply
SSTD to the Royal Navy. The system detects
and locates incoming torpedoes and provides
the means to decoy or jam their homing
mechanisms. It also gives the captain of the
ship tactical advice on ship manoeuvres.
Ultra has already successfully demonstrated
the in-water performance of key elements of
the SSTD system.
An even higher level of protection from
attack can be provided around harbour
entrances or in critical shipping lanes. Here,
Ultra’s expertise in expendable sonobuoys,
data fusion and in-buoy processing is being
used to develop long-life multi-sensor
tactical surveillance systems.
SONAR
ULTRA IS COMMITTED TO DEVELOPING WORLD-CLASS
UNDERWATER BATTLESPACE EQUIPMENT TO MEET THE
CHALLENGE OF TORPEDO ATTACK FROM MODERN,
STEALTHY SUBMARINES.
enhanced sonar capability
Chief Executive’s Review
meeting our commitment for…
10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11
170,000
Ultra supplied over 170,000 sonobuoys 
in 2002 to a total of 15 countries
around the world
Ultra is developing the bow sonar for the Type 45 destroyer Ultra is the world-leading supplier of sonobuoy systems The Nimrod MR2’s mission system has been upgraded by Ultra Ultra’s products can be found on the world’s
latest aircraft, manned and unmanned, fixed
and rotary wing. Ultra supports all stages of
the customer programmes, from concept
studies to in-service support.
The American F/A-18 E/F “Super Hornet”
aircraft is flying extended missions over
Afghanistan, fitted with Ultra’s HiPPAG
airborne compressor. HiPPAG provides a
constant, controlled flow of high pressure
pure air to cool the seekers of the aircraft’s
defensive missiles, keeping them ready for
action. HiPPAG performs beyond the
capability of the traditional solution, thereby
meeting a vital operational requirement.
Ultra’s HiPPAG controllable compressor is also
part of Boeing’s proposed new, high
performance weapons ejection system for
future smart munitions delivery systems.
HiPPAG is also being developed for use on
the new Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter for smooth munitions ejection.
Ultra’s advanced Human Computer Interface
(HCI) equipment is used not only in advanced
cockpits such as that on Euroﬁghter but also in
the control suite for unmanned aerial vehicles.
In the USA, Ultra has accelerated the
development and production of HCI equipment
to support several such programmes. Ultra
enhanced the scope of its supply of cockpit
equipment on the EH101 helicopter to reduce
Agusta Westland’s total procurement cost.
Ultra is committed to supporting Pilatus in
Switzerland with rapid development of the
displays on the PC21 trainer aircraft so as to
emulate the cockpit of the aircraft onto
which the trainee pilot will graduate. This will
be a key selling feature of the PC21 which
had its first flight in mid-2002. Ultra also
continued through the year managing the
vital software upgrades of the weapons
system of the Tornado aircraft. This is typical
of the long-term support that Ultra offers to
such programmes.
Ultra completed a highly successful
demonstration of its unique active noise 
cancellation equipment on a C130 aircraft.
This trial improved the aircrew’s working
environment by reducing significantly the
noise levels in the cockpit. Ultra also
demonstrated its innovative active propeller
balancing system on the powerplant for the
existing fleets of C130 transport and P3
maritime surveillance aircraft.
Ultra frequently responds to urgent customer
requirements. In the USA, Ultra met the need
for rapidly prototyped driver’s grips and
handles for technology demonstrations to suit
the Future Combat System armoured vehicle
programme. In the UK, Ultra was selected to
meet tight development timescales for the Alvis
Vickers Engineer Tank System. The challenge
has been met and consequently additions to
the scope of the contract have been agreed.
The Bowman programme in the UK upgrades
the Army’s communication system which will
be incorporated on armoured vehicles. Ultra
will be supplying equipment to help integrate
Bowman with other advanced vehicle systems.
AIRCRAFT & VEHICLES
ULTRA PROVIDES A BROAD RANGE OF ADVANCED
ELECTRONIC, ELECTROMECHANICAL AND
MECHANICAL SOLUTIONS FOR THE MOST
CHALLENGING OF CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS.
fulﬁlling thecustomer requirement
12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13
Advanced
Ultra’s advanced grips and hand controls
are used on at least six different
unmanned vehicle programmes
Chief Executive’s Review
meeting our commitment through…
Ultra’s landing gear controls will be on easyJet's Airbus aircraft Advanced indirect vision systems for armoured vehicles Ultra demonstrated cockpit noise reduction on C130 Hercules 1011010
0110
011101
010
101
In the USA, the terrorist attacks of
September 2001 highlighted the urgent
need for an integrated real-time air picture,
bringing together onto one display multiple
radar plots and intelligence feeds. Ultra’s Air
Defense System Integrator (ADSI) product
was ideally placed to act as the computing
heart of this system and emergency funding
was made available for the required
development. Ultra’s staff responded with
enormous personal commitment to ensure
that the need for enhanced security was
met. The quality culture prevailing in the
team was demonstrated when a ‘right first
time’ pass was achieved after critical
integration testing of an enhanced version of
ADSI at a government test facility.
In the UK, Ultra responded to an urgent
operational requirement by bidding, winning
a contract, developing and delivering a
mobile high technology multi-media
communication system in less than twenty
weeks. This equipment allows UK peace-
keeping forces to communicate effectively
with the civilian population.
In the year, the Group made on-time
deliveries of computers and display consoles
for the UK Astute submarine programme. The
equipment delivered to the integration facility
included key elements of the weapons
interfacing and combat management systems.
Ultra is also supplying critical information
processing and networking equipment as part
of the command and control system for the
Korean KDX range of destroyers. In 2002,
Ultra won a contract to supply equipment for
the second batch of three KDX-II ships.
Ultra’s Olympus collaborative planning
system allows real-time, highly mobile
electronic sharing of geographic and tactical
information. An upgrade to this innovative
battlespace digitisation system was
demonstrated that would enhance the
command and control response to a major
incident such as a chemical or biological
terrorist attack.
Airports and airlines are able to improve the
safety and security of commercial flights
when a positive match is maintained between
passengers and their baggage. The UltraTrak
baggage reconciliation system is being
supplied to both BA and Virgin in North
America and to BAA plc for general use at
London’s Heathrow airport. In addition,
through its airport IT business, the entire IT
infrastructure at the new fifth terminal at
Heathrow will be provided by Ultra. The
relationship with BAA is built on trust with
open collaborative working to meet a
common goal including joint R&D activities.
At facilities such as airports, schools and
similarly sensitive areas, access control is vital
to minimise any risk to security. Ultra has
expanded its range of ID card printers with
holographic anti-counterfeiting technology.
This has given Ultra a significant presence in
this sector of the access control market.
INFORMATION
ULTRA SPECIALISES IN SYSTEMS THAT ENHANCE
SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
CONTROL THROUGH THE PROVISION OF ACCURATE
AND TIMELY DATA.
improvedinformation management
Chief Executive’s Review
meeting our commitment for…
14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15
25 million
Ultra has sold printers and, in 2002,
enough dye-film to create ID cards
for over 25 million people
Ultra’s range of ID printers increases security of access control Enhanced command and control for major incidents Ultra’s baggage tracking system used by both BA and Virgin Electrical power provides clean solutions.
For naval vessels, solid-state electrical power
supplies are more flexible and tolerant of
battle damage than hydraulic systems, as
well as being more reliable, smaller and
lighter than rotary converters. For transport,
electric rail systems are cleaner and more
efficient than diesel trains or buses.
Rising populations and the concentration of
those populations in relatively small areas
have led to ever worsening trafﬁc congestion
and have emphasised the need for investment
in advanced transportation systems. A key
element of the solution is the provision or
upgrade of mass transit systems. These usually
require direct current electrical supplies and
Ultra has powerful solutions to meet these
customer requirements.
In the UK, Network Rail has embarked on a
programme to upgrade the power supply for
Southern Region trains serving London and
the South East. Network Rail, aware that
they are working to challenging timescales,
needed to build a strong team around them.
They needed companies with the right
technologies, skills and capacity and, above
all, the right culture, attitude and will to
succeed. In Ultra’s PMES business, Network
Rail found these attributes and, as a result,
selected the division to play a key role in the
solution to the Southern Region power
supply challenge.
Ultra’s record of meeting its commitments
was reinforced during 2002 with the on-time
design and delivery of modular sub-stations
for installation at Fawkham Junction, to the
south east of London.
Ultra’s capability in transit power systems
mirrors an equivalent capability for defence
power systems. In the UK, the Astute class of
submarine and the Type 45 destroyer are
being developed and Ultra is providing
critical power systems for both programmes.
For the Type 45 destroyer, Ultra is supplying a
range of solid-state power supplies and
associated control equipment. During the year
Ultra delivered power systems equipment for
the ﬁrst Astute submarine which included a
range of specialist power supplies, all
characterised by a need for the highest quality
and integrity of supply. One example is the
equipment that powers part of the
submarine’s nuclear reactor control system.
Ultra is also a world-leading supplier of
equipment to sense and control the
magnetic signature of naval vessels. These
should be degaussed continuously to prevent
them from triggering magnetic influence
mines that may litter coastal waters in times
of war. Ultra is providing this specialist
equipment for modern day ships and
submarines and, in 2002, was selected to
supply the US Navy T-AKE class of cargo and
ammunition ships.
POWER
ULTRA PROVIDES HIGHLY RELIABLE SOLID-STATE
ELECTRICAL POWER SUPPLIES FOR USE WORLDWIDE
IN MISSION-CRITICAL APPLICATIONS ON SHIPS,
SUBMARINES AND MASS TRANSIT SYSTEMS.
providing powerful solutions
16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17
Upgrade
Ultra will supply electrical sub-stations
as part of Network Rail's upgrade
programme for the Southern Region
Chief Executive’s Review
meeting our commitment through…
Specialist power equipment for the USN Virginia submarines Advanced signature management for the Type 45 destroyer Magnetic signature management for USN T-AKE cargo ships Trading results
Sales rose by 9% to £260.4m, a new record
level for the Group. Underlying organic
growth was 6% with an additional
contribution from Tactical Communication
Systems (TCS), acquired in September.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
was 6% higher at £33.5m, giving an
operating margin of 12.9% (2001: 13.2%).
This encouraging result was achieved in spite
of lower sales and further reorganisation
costs in Ultra’s civil aerospace businesses,
negative currency translation effects and
higher insurance premiums resulting from the
11 September 2001 terrorist attacks.
Ultra increased its sales in North America,
where the share of total Group sales rose to
39% (2001: 35%). The rapid increase in
Battlespace IT spending by the US DoD is a
key driver of this trend and sonobuoy sales
were also strong in 2002. Ultra reduced its
dependence on the UK with sales dropping 
to 42% of turnover in the year (2001: 47%).
Sales in Continental Europe remained at
13% of sales, with HiPPAG equipment for
Eurofighter and Airbus landing gear
computers the main elements.
2002 saw Ultra’s defence sales rise above
80% of turnover. This was caused by a
combination of lower civil aerospace sales,
higher defence sales in the USA and the
acquisition of TCS, which is solely a defence
manufacturer. Civil aerospace activity, at
12% of Group turnover, formed the major
part of Ultra’s sales to the civil sector.
Group-funded R&D expenditure was £10.7m
(2001: £10.0m). Including customer funding
the total investment in new product
development was £58.6m (2001: £50.1m),
equivalent to 22% of turnover. The biggest
development programmes were Ultra’s Air
Defense Systems Integrator in the USA,
equipment for Astute and the important
new Surface Ship Torpedo Defence system 
in the UK.
Interest and proﬁt before taxation
Interest costs were significantly lower at
£3.5m, compared to £4.6m in 2001. This
was due partly to lower borrowings, as the
Group benefited from its recent strong cash
performance. In addition the interest rates
that applied to Ultra’s floating rate debt
were lower than in 2001. This saving in
interest costs increased profit before tax 
and goodwill amortisation to £29.9m, 
11% more than in 2001 (£27.1m). The
interest charge was covered 9.5 times by
operating profit before goodwill
amortisation. Amortisation of goodwill and
intangibles increased to £3.9m (2001: £3.7m)
with £0.26m being charged for the new
acquisition, TCS.
Taxation
The effective tax rate on profit before
amortisation was 27%. This is 1% higher
than the 2001 rate, which was restated to
reflect the adoption of the new accounting
standard FRS 19 in 2002. The new standard
has also led to the recognition of deferred
tax assets, brought about mainly by timing
differences and tax deductible goodwill in
the USA. The net deferred tax asset was
£0.2m at the end of the year.
Earnings per share and dividends
Earnings per share before amortisation
increased by 9% to 33.2p despite the 
higher tax rate. The proposed final dividend
is 7.5p, bringing the total dividend to 11.2p
(2001: 10.4p), an increase of 8%. The full
year dividend is covered 3.0 times by earnings
per share before amortisation, maintaining a
policy of strong dividend cover.
Cash ﬂow and borrowings
With its focus upon long-term contracts,
Ultra regards cash performance as a key
indicator of its financial strength. It is
therefore encouraging that operating cash
flow, after capital expenditure, was £38.7m
in the year (2001: £35.2m). The ratio of
operating cash to operating profit was
116%, bringing the average conversion ratio
to 85% over the past five years. Investments
in fixed assets were £3.3m, approximately
£0.5m less than the depreciation charge and
indicative of Ultra’s low dependence on
fixed capital investment. Operating working
capital was reduced by £4.9m in spite of the
6% organic increase in turnover. As a result
of this strong cash performance, free cash
flow before dividends and acquisitions was
£28.0m. Despite making the investment in
TCS, net debt fell by £1.3m to close the
year at £39.3m.
Acquisition
Ultra acquired TCS, based in Montreal, Canada,
in September 2002 for a cash consideration of
C$53m (£21.5m). The net assets acquired have
been valued provisionally at £1.6m. The balance
of the acquisition cost will be capitalised as
goodwill and amortised over twenty years,
increasing the Group’s annual amortisation
charge by approximately £1.0m.
After initial reorganisation costs, TCS made a
£0.5m operating profit before goodwill
amortisation in its first three months under
Ultra ownership. The business should make a
positive contribution to profit after financing
costs during the coming year.
Financial risk management
Ultra’s ﬁnancial instruments, other than
derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and
trade funding consisting of debtors, creditors
and customer advances. Group policy prohibits
speculative transactions and no trading activity
in ﬁnancial instruments is undertaken. Treasury
policies are determined by the Group Finance
Director, based on forecast business
requirements, and are reviewed regularly.
Financing
The Group ﬁnances its existing operations and
new acquisitions through a mix of retained
cash and bank borrowings. During 2002 Ultra
established a new £80m three-year revolving
credit facility with a small syndicate of banks,
led by The Royal Bank of Scotland. There will
be no interim repayments during the term of
the facility. It is denominated in a range of
currencies to meet balance sheet hedging and
operational needs. Both the Sterling and US
Dollar elements of the facility will fund
working capital requirements. The US and
Canadian Dollar borrowings will provide
hedges for assets denominated in those
currencies. A further £10m overdraft is also
available for working capital funding.
The new facility replaces a ﬁve-year term loan
used to ﬁnance the acquisition of the DF Group
in 2000. An interest rate swap that ﬁxed the
effective interest rate at 7.7% for the full term
of the original loan will remain in place until
April 2005, despite the reﬁnancing. At 
31 December 2002, 48% of total debt was at
ﬂoating rates after taking account of the swap,
which applied to the ﬁrst £16.5m of debt.
Foreign currency exposure
Ultra’s main translation exposure is to the 
US Dollar with lesser exposure to the
Canadian Dollar. The average Sterling
exchange rate against these currencies
strengthened by 6% during the year, leading
to a reduced contribution from Ultra’s North
American subsidiaries when their results were
translated into Sterling. The impact upon
Group sales and proﬁts was a reduction of
approximately 2% in both cases.
The principal currency transaction exposure is
to the US Dollar as virtually all civil aerospace
sales are denominated in US Dollars. Group
policy is to hedge the net exposure on orders
in hand using forward foreign exchange
contracts, typically extending to 18-24 months.
Exposure to the Canadian Dollar and the
Euro is hedged in the same way. Any
exposure to other currencies is hedged as it
arises on specific contracts.
Pensions
The retirement beneﬁts of Ultra’s UK workforce
are funded by a combination of deﬁned
beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution pension
schemes, with most staff participating in the
Ultra Electronics Ltd. deﬁned beneﬁt scheme.
This scheme was actuarially assessed in April
2001 when its solvency was 105%, or 115%
on an MFR basis. As a result of stockmarket
falls since then, the Company has committed
to raise its contributions to the scheme from
10% to 13.5% of pensionable pay by 2003, a
total increase of approximately £0.9m per
annum. The scheme is relatively immature,
with just 13% of retired members, and remains
strongly cash positive. Ultra’s US subsidiaries
and Maritime Systems Inc. in Canada operate
deﬁned contribution schemes. Employees at
TCS participate in a limited deﬁned beneﬁt
scheme. Note 24 to these accounts contains
additional disclosures on Ultra’s deﬁned beneﬁt
pension funding position in accordance with
UK Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 –
Retirement Beneﬁts. The FRS 17 valuation at
the end of 2002 showed a deﬁcit of £20.4m
(2001: £7.1m), after deducting the associated
deferred tax asset.
David Jeffcoat, Finance Director and Company Secretary
18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19
Financial Review
Sales by market sector
Civil aerospace 12%
Other civil 7%
Defence 81% 
Sales by destination
UK 42%
North America 39% 
Europe 13%
ROW 6% 
sales rose by 9% to £260.4m…
arecord level for
the Group
David Jeffcoat, Finance Director and Company Secretary Peter Macfarlane* FCA FCT, 
Non-Executive Chairman, age 64, qualiﬁed as
a Chartered Accountant with Touche Ross
and, after three years with Coopers & Lybrand
joined Kimberley Clark, managing their
ﬁnancial affairs in Europe, Africa and the
Middle East. He joined Rolls Royce in 1979 as
Group Treasurer and, after a period as
Director of Corporate Development, was
appointed Finance Director in 1989. 
Mr Macfarlane retired from the board of
Allied Domecq plc in 1998 where he had
been initially Finance Director and
subsequently Chairman of two divisions. He
was appointed to the board of Ultra in
January 1995.
Julian Blogh CBE BA MSc PhD CEng MIEE, 
Chief Executive, age 59, has spent most of his
working life in the electronics industry
working with Ferranti Radar, Plessey Radar
and Dowty Electronic Systems. He was
Managing Director of Sonar & Communication
Systems from 1987 to 1992, when he was
appointed Managing Director of Dowty
Avionics. He became Chief Executive of 
Ultra Electronics when it began trading in
October 1993.
Douglas Caster BSc MIEE,
Managing Director, Information & Power
Systems, age 49, started as a Design Engineer
with Racal in 1975, before moving to
Schlumberger and then to Dowty as
Engineering Director of Sonar &
Communication Systems in 1988. In 1992, he
became Managing Director of that division
and joined the board of Ultra in October 1993.
In 1999 he became Managing Director of
Command & Control Systems with
responsibility for Ocean Systems, PMES, and
APC. In April 2000, he was appointed to his
current position.
Andrew Hamment BA, 
Marketing Director, age 48, started his career
with Hawker Siddeley before moving to
Schlumberger in 1980, working in procurement
and then marketing at Weston Aerospace
before transferring to Solartron as Aerospace
Business Manager. He joined Dowty in 1988 as
Managing Director of the Controls business.
He was appointed to his current position in
July 2000 and joined the board at that time.
Sir Frank Holroyd* KBE CB MSc FREng CEng 
FRAeS FIEE CIMgt, 
Non-Executive Director, age 67, retired from the
RAF in 1991 as Air Marshal after 35 years’
service, latterly as Chief of Logistics and Chief
Engineer; formerly Chief Engineer of Strike
Command and Director General of Procurement
(MoD) for Strategic Electronic Systems. He is
Chairman of Composite Technology Ltd, Deputy
Chairman of Military Aircraft Spares Ltd and
Deputy Chairman of Council at Cranﬁeld
University. Sir Frank was appointed to the board
of Ultra in March 1995.
Frank Hope BSc PhD CPhys MInstP, 
Managing Director, Aircraft & Vehicle Systems,
age 48, started his career with Tecalemit as a
design engineer working on robotics. He
spent 13 years with Avimo Limited latterly as
Managing Director, having previously held the
positions of Technical Director and Operations
Director. He joined Ultra in 1994 as Managing
Director of the Electrics Division and was
appointed to the board of Ultra in January
1999. In April 2000 he was appointed to his
present position.
David Jeffcoat BA FCMA, 
Finance Director and Company Secretary, age
52, started his career in the motor industry as
a Production Engineer. Since qualifying as an
accountant he has held senior ﬁnancial
positions in several large corporations
including GlaxoWellcome plc, where he was
Finance Director of two subsidiaries. Before
joining Ultra he was Group Financial Controller
of Smiths Industries plc for three years. He was
appointed to the board in July 2000.
Andrew Walker* MA CEng, 
Senior Non-Executive Director, age 51, was
appointed to the board in June 1996. Joining
the Dowty Group plc in 1978, he became an
operating board member during 1991/92.
Following TI Group’s acquisition of Dowty, he
became Managing Director of John Crane
Polymer Engineering. He was Chief Executive
of South Wales Electricity plc (SWALEC) from
1993 to 1996, and was Chief Executive of
McKechnie plc from 1997 to 2001. In 2000, he
successfully led the MBO of McKechnie plc. Mr
Walker is also a non-executive director of
Galileo Innovations plc and Bioganix Limited.
20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21
Board of Directors
*Audit and Remuneration Committee members The evolution of Ultra
evolution
ADVANCED PROGRAMMING CONCEPTS
COMMAND & CONTROL SYSTEMS
EMS
FASL
MANUFACTURING & CARD SYSTEMS 
PMES
SIGNATURE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
ADVANCED PROGRAMMING CONCEPTS
COMMAND & CONTROL SYSTEMS
EMS
FASL
MANUFACTURING & CARD SYSTEMS
PMES
CONTROLS DIVISION 
DATEL DEFENCE
ELECTRICS DIVISION
FLIGHTLINE SYSTEMS
MARITIME SYSTEMS
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS INC 
PRECISION AIR SYSTEMS
NOISE & VIBRATION SYSTEMS
SONAR & COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
TACTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
UNDERSEA SENSOR SYSTEMS INC
FLIGHTLINE SYSTEMS
MARITIME SYSTEMS
SONAR & COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
TACTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
UNDERSEA SENSOR SYSTEMS INC
CONTROLS DIVISION 
DATEL DEFENCE
ELECTRICS DIVISION
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS INC
PRECISION AIR SYSTEMS
sales £177.5m
proﬁt £22.5m
sales £82.9m
proﬁt £11.0m
sales £76.4m
proﬁt £12.4m
sales £82.9m
proﬁt £11.0m
sales £101.1m
proﬁt £10.1m
22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 
ULTRA ELECTRONICS HAS EXPANDED SUBSTANTIALLY SINCE ITS FORMATION.
FROM JANUARY 2003, THE GROUP WILL BE ORGANISED INTO THREE DIVISIONS AS
SHOWN BELOW. THE NEW DIVISIONAL NAMES MORE ACCURATELY REFLECT THE
ACTIVITIES OF THE BUSINESSES IN EACH DIVISION.
Information 
& Sea Systems
Air & Land
Systems
Aircraft & 
Vehicle Systems
Tactical &
Sonar Systems 
Information &
Power Systems 
Tactical & Sonar Systems
Flightline Systems
7625 Omnitech Place
Victor
New York 14564-9795
USA
Tel: +1 585 924 4000 
Fax: +1 585 924 5732
Maritime Systems
40 Atlantic Street
Dartmouth
Nova Scotia B2Y4N2
Canada
Tel: +1 902 466 7491 
Fax: +1 902 463 6098
Sonar & Communication Systems
419 Bridport Road
Greenford
Middlesex UB6 8UA
England
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8813 4567 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8813 4568
Tactical Communication Systems
600 Dr Frederik Philips Boulevard 
Ville Saint-Laurent
Quebec H4M2S9
Canada
Tel: +1 514 855 6363 
Fax: +1 514 855 6353
UnderSea Sensor Systems Inc.
4578 East Park 30 Drive 
Columbia City
Indiana 46725-8869
USA
Tel: +1 260 248 3500 
Fax: +1 260 248 3510
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems
Controls Division
417 Bridport Road
Greenford
Middlesex UB6 8UA
England
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8813 4444 
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8813 4351
Datel Defence
1 Chain Caul Way
Ashton-on-Ribble 
Preston PR2 2YL
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1772 325200 
Fax: +44 (0) 1772 325201
Electrics Division
Kingsditch Lane
Cheltenham
Gloucestershire GL51 9PG
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1242 221166 
Fax: +44 (0) 1242 221167
Measurement Systems Inc.
777 Commerce Drive
Fairfield
Connecticut 06432
USA
Tel: +1 203 336 4590 
Fax: +1 203 336 5945
Precision Air Systems
Anson Business Park
Cheltenham Road East
Gloucester GL2 9QN
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1452 714382 
Fax: +44 (0) 1452 715252
Information & Power Systems
Advanced Programming Concepts 
3300 Duval Road, Suite 200
Austin
Texas 78759
USA
Tel: +1 512 327 6795 
Fax: +1 512 327 8043
Command & Control Systems
Knaves Beech Business Centre 
Loudwater
High Wycombe 
Buckinghamshire HP10 9UT
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 530000 
Fax: +44 (0) 1628 524557
EMS
95 Horseblock Road
PO Box 640 
Yaphank
New York 11980
USA
Tel: +1 631 345 6200 
Fax: +1 631 345 6216
FASL
The Oaks
Crewe Road
Wythenshawe
Manchester M23 9SS
England
Tel: +44 (0) 161 946 3600 
Fax: +44 (0) 161 946 3601
Manufacturing & Card Systems
Waverley House
Hampshire Road
Granby Estate
Weymouth
Dorset DT4 9XD
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1305 784738 
Fax: +44 (0) 1305 777904
PMES
Armitage Road
Rugeley
Staffordshire WS15 1DR
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1889 503300 
Fax: +44 (0) 1889 572929
Business addresses Registered Office:
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
417 Bridport Road
Greenford
Middlesex UB6 8UA
England
Tel: +44 (0) 20 8813 4321
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8813 4322
www.ultra-electronics.com
information@ultra-scs.com Design and production: HaT Associates +44 (0)1242 253112 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the accounts and auditors’
report, for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activity
Ultra Electronics is a group of businesses engaged in the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems
for the international defence and aerospace markets.
Results and dividends
The review of operations is contained on pages 4 to 17. Group results and dividends are as follows:
2002
£’000
Balance on profit and loss account, beginning of year (as restated – see note 20) 14,588
Profit for the financial year 17,946
Dividends: Interim paid of 3.7p per share (2,439)
Final proposed of 7.5p per share (4,946)
Amounts gifted to the Employee Share Ownership Trust (see note 19) (135)
Foreign exchange differences 474
Balance on profit and loss account, end of year 25,488
The final 2002 dividend is proposed to be paid on 6 May 2003 to shareholders on the register at 11 April 2003.
The interim dividend was paid on 27 September 2002, making a total of 11.2p (2001: 10.4p) per share for the year.
Future developments 
A review of the activities and future developments of the Group is contained in the Chief Executive’s Review on 
pages 4 to 17.
Research and development
The Directors are committed to maintaining a significant level of research and development expenditure in order to
expand the Group’s range of proprietary products. During the year a total of £58.6 million (2001: £50.1 million) was spent
on engineering development of which £47.9 million (2001: £40.1 million) was funded by customers and £10.7 million
(2001: £10.0 million) by the Group.
Directors and their interests
The Directors who served in the year and their interests in the shares of the Company are listed on page 33.
Substantial shareholdings
At 21 February 2003, the Company had been notified in accordance with Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985
that the following were registered as having an interest in 3% or more of the Company’s ordinary share capital:
Percentage of 
ordinary share Number of 5p
capital % ordinary shares
Zurich Financial Services Group 4.80 3,157,414
The Aegon UK plc Group of Companies 3.98 2,617,826
Fidelity International Limited 3.87 2,536,171
Legal and General 3.63 2,397,439
Sun Life Assurance 3.13 2,064,069
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 3.03 1,987,582
Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2002 24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Charitable and political contributions
The Group contributed £14,000 (2001: £14,000) to charities and made no contributions for political purposes in 
either year.
Health, safety and the environment
Ultra’s Board recognises that it is important, both for its employees and the communities in which it operates, that Ultra
maintains high standards of health and safety and takes effective measures to ensure that its activities do not damage
the environment.
The Board continues to operate a policy of bi-annual external audits of each UK site in respect of health, safety and
environmental matters. These audits are next scheduled to take place during 2003. A similar process has recently been
established for the Group’s North American sites and the first of such audits commenced in early 2003.
In particular Ultra recognises the responsibility it has towards the environment. The Group Environmental Policy
addresses compliance with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, waste disposal and noise, the
economical use of materials and the establishment of environmental performance standards. All Ultra businesses
commenced implementation of this policy during 2002, a process that will continue into 2003.
Business ethics and employment practices
Ultra’s Board of Directors requires that its employees comply with the laws and standards of conduct of the countries in
which it does business. The Directors and employees are all required to avoid personal conflicts of interest regarding
company business.
In complying with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 in the United Kingdom, the Group has established a procedure
enabling employees to bring matters to the attention of an appropriate manager outside of their own business in the
event that they do not feel able to approach their local line management.
It is the policy of the Board to be an equal opportunities employer and to oppose all forms of unlawful or unfair
discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or
political belief. Applicants and employees are treated equally and fairly in respect of recruitment, remuneration,
training, promotion and career development.
Employee consultation
The Board places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and keeps them informed on matters
affecting them as employees, and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group, through formal and
informal meetings and a Group magazine. An employee survey, ‘YOURviews’, provides local management teams with
feedback and an opportunity to benchmark across the Group.
Supplier payment policy
Operating divisions are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business
transactions with their suppliers. It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those
terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Trade creditor days of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2002 were 47 days (2001: 53 days), based on the ratio of
Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers. The Company had no
trade creditors at the year-end.
Directors’ report (continued) Annual general meeting
Explanation of special business resolutions is given below:
Resolution 7
Arthur Andersen resigned as auditors of the Group during 2002 and the Board appointed Deloitte & Touche to replace
them following a formal tender process. Resolution 7 confirms Deloitte & Touche as Ultra’s auditors for the year to come.
Resolution 8
This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,100,666
(33% of the allotted and fully paid up share capital of the Company).
Resolution 9
This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares for cash, without first having offered to allot such shares to
existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, in respect of 5% of the total issued share capital of the
Company. Resolutions 8 and 9 comply with the Association of British Insurers’ guidelines and renew similar authorities
given previously. The authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the
Company or 15 months after the date of passing these resolutions. The Directors have no current intention to exercise
the authorities sought by these resolutions except for employee share option schemes.
Resolution 10
This resolution authorises the Directors to purchase up to a total of 3,301,997 of the Company’s shares (representing
5% of the issued share capital of the Company). This authority expires on the earlier of 12 months from the date of
passing this resolution or the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
The Directors will use the share purchase authority with discretion. In reaching a decision to purchase shares of the
Company the Directors would take account of the Company’s business and any impact on earnings per share and net
tangible assets per share. The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authority sought by this resolution.
By order of the Board,
D. Jeffcoat 
Company Secretary
24 February 2003
Registered Office: 417 Bridport Road, Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA
Registered Number: 2830397 
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25
Directors’ report (continued)
