 In October 2006 Ultra celebrated the tenth
anniversary of its ﬂotation on the London
Stock Exchange. The long-term strategies
that Ultra has pursued have enabled the
Group to achieve an annual 18% compound
total shareholder return over the ten-year
period since ﬂotation. The chart below
shows how Ultra’s share price has
outperformed the overall market and the
Group’s aerospace and defence peers over
the last ten years. This achievement is
consistent with Ultra’s objective of
outperforming the market in terms of annual
increases in shareholder value by delivering
above average annual increases in earnings.
Last year’s annual report and accounts
brieﬂy summarised Ultra’s strategies to
achieve this objective. These are expanded
more fully opposite:
1 To concentrate on aerospace and defence
The Group’s core competencies, domain knowledge, and market
positions give it particular credibility in the aerospace and defence
sector worldwide. Core competencies include market positioning
to capture large contracts, the management of complex
development programmes where risks need careful identiﬁcation
and control, manufacturing and aftermarket support over long
timescales and the discipline to meet our commitments. The
strategy is to increase the capability of the Group to allow
adjacent market sectors that exhibit growth to be served.
2 To be a niche player where the Group has
competitive advantage through technology or
market position
Within the Group’s twenty businesses, over eighty niches can
be identified where the aim is to sustain competitive
advantage and achieve a world-leading position. The Group
values its portfolio of niches, since each offering can be
defended against competition through barriers to entry
resulting in the potential for superior financial performance.
Furthermore these niches provide a high level of resilience for
the Group in the face of technological changes or funding cut
backs. This wide spread gives the Group low dependency on
any single programme or platform.
3 To offer a through-life product and service
portfolio that includes systems, sub-systems,
products and components
The Group values any position within the supply chain that is
held by any particular niche. Frequently, more attractive
margins can be generated by providing components than by
supplying entire systems. Broadening the scope of the offering
from components and products to sub-systems, systems and
through-life management is appropriate as this allows Ultra to
retain its rank in the supply chain despite our prime contractor
customers‘ desire to reduce the number of direct suppliers.
Ultra prefers to retain a leading niche position rather than
move into the supply of systems with the hope of higher added
value. The scope of Ultra’s offering is determined after a
rigorous strategic review.
Chief Executive’s Overview
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Total shareholder return
compound average growth rate 
over 10 years
18%
calculated since ﬂotation in 1996
innovative
solutions
winning
performance
consistent
delivery
*see footnote on page 01
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1200
1997 1998 1999 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2000 2006
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
FTSE all share price index
FTSE all share aerospace/defence
Ultra share price – ten year performance
Douglas Caster, Chief Executive 4 To grow organically and by acquisition
Each Ultra business has a contribution to make to the organic
growth of the Group, as well as identifying well matched
acquisition targets. To ensure that organic growth is achieved,
businesses produce annual ﬁve-year strategic plans that target
speciﬁc opportunities. The focus on cash generation is a key
driver to the affordability of suitable acquisitions to augment the
Group’s growth rate.
5 To have an efﬁcient organisation with committed
and competent people
Ultra seeks to maximise efﬁciency throughout its organisation.
The levels of commitment and competency of business
management teams is continuously assessed through strategic,
budget, organisation and succession, and regular business
performance reviews. The Group places a high degree of trust
in, and has high expectations of, its senior staff and supports
their development and improvement activities. Ultra empowers
management teams to run their respective businesses to deliver
agreed strategies, meet budgets and continuously to develop
their people. Ultra rewards good performance through career
development, bonuses and share options. The Group‘s culture
deﬁnes work as ‘serious but fun’.
6 To be an excellent and strategic supplier to 
our customers 
Having established an initial relationship with customers by
offering innovative solutions, businesses are expected to maximise
these positions for the long term. This is achieved by nurturing
relationships through sustained on-time delivery of high quality
products and services. Businesses often create strategic
relationships rather than arms-length customer-supplier
relationships by offering long-term support or through-life
solutions. Many of the Group’s niche offerings involve the
design and supply of complex products and services which are
typically safety or performance-critical in their application. This
creates a dependency from the customer’s perspective and
encourages a long-term strategic relationship.
7 To gain competitive advantage by internal and
external teaming
Teaming, internally within the Group or externally with other
companies, broadens offerings by combining niche products 
or linking domain knowledge. It attains competitive advantage
by accessing off-the-shelf technology, allowing timely delivery
while avoiding expensive development costs and high project
risk. Increasingly, Ultra teams with international, world-class
partners to access “best of breed” technology and undertakes
specialist system and sub-system design and integration,
ensuring sovereign operational independence where required.
8 To meet our commitments
Ultra has built a reputation of meeting its commitments. This
reputation is not only based on businesses meeting their
obligations, but also by establishing a culture which is based
on this principle. The Group believes that this reputation is one
of its defining and valuable characteristics. Behaving in this
way fosters long-term relationships.
Ultra’s success has been achieved by
positioning its products and services on a
broad range of international platforms and
programmes. This positioning is created 
by applying the above strategies to ensure
that Ultra’s offerings are differentiated 
from those of the competition in a way 
that the customer values. Focus is
sustained on creating and maintaining this
differentiation in the future and on
continuing to provide innovative solutions
to satisfy evolving customer requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 – Chief Executive’s Overview
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05
Operating margin*
15.3%
(2005: 14.9%) 
Operating cash conversion*
98%
(2005: 105%) 
*see footnote on page 01 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
19%
Buoyant civil aerospace
Ultra‘s sales of equipment for 
civil aircraft rose by 19% in 2006,
the Group‘s fastest growing
product category
Aircraft & Vehicle Systems Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Ultra, in partnership with GKN Aerospace, is developing the
innovative electro-thermal ice protection system solution for the
wings of Boeing’s new 787 “Dreamliner” aircraft. This team is
also developing a similarly innovative solution for the intake ice
protection of the Pratt & Whitney engine that powers the 
new US Joint Strike Fighter aircraft 
= new customer… + new technology… + new platform
innovative
solutions
Ultra has repeatedly
demonstrated its ability to
design innovative solutions to
meet urgent military
operational requirements. It
delivered systems to enhance
the all-round vision of
armoured vehicle crews when
operating ‘under armour’.
Ultra also supplies innovative
electrical power management
systems that improve the
operational effectiveness of
armoured vehicles.
= new platform
In Each Airbus A400M military
transport aircraft will contain
innovative system solutions
from Ultra. Active noise and
vibration cancellation systems
will reduce the aircraft’s
internal noise considerably. In
the hold, Ultra’s innovative
electronic network nodes will
reduce the weight and
improve the reliability of the
cargo handling system.
= new technology… 
+ new platform 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
£20m
Astute submarine equipment
The value of Ultra equipment on
each additional Astute submarine
will exceed £20m
Information & Power Systems Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Ultra’s broad range of equipment on each Astute submarine will
deliver consistent electrical power for the boat’s main systems such 
as emergency propulsion and signature management, consistent
readiness of the weapon suite incorporating the latest version of the
Tomahawk cruise missile, and consistent control and instrumentation
of the boat’s operation, including the nuclear reactor
= new technology… + new platform
consistent
delivery
In 2006, Ultra’s passenger
baggage tracking system at
London Heathrow coped
with the increased volume of
checked bags that resulted
from the enhanced terrorist
threat. A record of
consistently delivering
above-target levels of
customer satisfaction helped
Ultra’s selection to provide
fully-managed airport IT
services at Dublin and
Minneapolis St Paul airports.
= new customers
In Ultra has a world-leading
ability to fuse data from
different tactical sources to
provide a coherent local
airspace picture showing
friendly and hostile
elements. Ultra has supplied
systems that consistently
deliver local situational
awareness to ground
commanders in Afghanistan
and Iraq.
= new capability 
+ new programme 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
£60m
Airborne battlespace IT
Ultra received contracts worth 
over £60m in 2006 to supply the
RAF‘s supersonic jets with the
Litening targeting pod
Tactical & Sonar Systems Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Winning in modern warfare requires an ability to acquire, 
track and designate small, mobile ground targets. Ultra, teamed
with Rafael, is providing the RAF’s supersonic jets with such a 
ground-attack capability. Ultra successfully upgraded and
integrated the latest generation of targeting and surveillance
pod on Euroﬁghter Typhoon and on Tornado aircraft
= new capability
winning
performance
Small, highly mobile targets
will be identiﬁed by
unmanned aerial vehicles and
other surveillance assets.
Ultra will undertake a
concept demonstration of an
air vehicle that can loiter
above enemy-held territory
and have the ability to attack
such time-critical targets – a
potentially winning capability
in modern warfare.
= new capability
+ new technology
+ new platform
In The excellent in-service
performance of Ultra’s
line-of-sight tactical radios
has helped it win further
large contracts for their
supply. The capacity of the
radios has been enhanced
so that they can keep up
with the insatiable demand
for the transmission of
ever increasing volumes 
of information.
= new capability
+ new technology Annual Report and Accounts 2006
innovative
solutions
winning
performance
consistent
delivery
Key Performance Indicators
12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
The indicators shown above have been identified by the Directors
as giving the best overall indication of the Group’s long-term
success. Revenue growth gives a quantified indication of the
rate at which the Group’s business activity is expanding. Order
book visibility, based upon expected sales during the year to
come, gives the Board confidence as to the achievement of future
growth forecasts. A satisfactory profit growth trend confirms
that additional revenue is being gained without profit margins
being compromised. It also indicates that the additional
contribution to profits from new acquisitions is greater than the
extra financing costs associated with those acquisitions. A key
objective of the Board is to increase earnings per share at a
faster rate than other similar quoted companies in the UK. If
successful this should ensure that investors will continue to hold
Ultra’s shares, rather than those of its peers. The Directors aim to
manage the Group so that it continues to generate high levels of
cash, which can be then be reinvested in the business in the form
of acquisitions. The Board uses operating cash conversion as a
simple yet reliable measure of cash generation, which represents
the major element of the Group’s short-term incentive bonus
scheme. Whilst free cash will continue to fund Ultra’s expansion
by acquisition, it is important to ensure that the balance sheet
remains sufficiently strong and that the cost of carrying additional
debt does not become too high. Interest cover is a reliable
indicator of balance sheet strength. Finally, it remains the
overriding objective of the Board to provide shareholders with a
long-term return on their investment in Ultra that exceeds that of
other potential equity investments with a similar risk proﬁle. Total
shareholder return is a suitable measure, as compared to the
overall population of FTSE 250 companies.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Performance indicator
Revenue growth
Profit growth
Order book visibility
Growth in earnings per share 
over a three year period.
Cash conversion
Interest cover
Relative total shareholder return
Definition
Growth in total Group revenue
compared to the prior year.
Growth in Group proﬁt before tax,
amortisation of intangibles arising on
acquisition and fair value movement on
derivatives compared to the prior year.
Order cover for next financial year as
percentage of market consensus sales
forecast for the year.
Growth in earnings per share, before
amortisation of intangibles arising on
acquisition and fair value movement
on derivatives, calculated over a
rolling three year period.
Net cash from operating activities, less
net purchases of property, plant and
equipment, less expenditure on product
development and LTIP purchases,
expressed as a percentage of proﬁt
from operations before amortisation of
intangibles arising on acquisition. 
The ratio of profit from operations
before amortisation of intangibles
arising on acquisition to finance costs
associated with bank borrowings.
Annual total shareholder return
(capital growth plus dividends paid,
assuming dividends reinvested) over a
rolling three year period compared to
the FTSE 250 index.
2006 result
10%
16%
61% cover for 2007 on consensus
sales of £406m
52%
98%
22 times
+2% per annum
*see footnote on page 01
