 Ultra made excellent progress in 2006,
achieving strong growth in revenue and
proﬁts. The Group’s performance reﬂected
increased contributions from its specialist
activities in battlespace IT, airport IT systems
and underwater battlespace systems and
equipment. Contributions were made by
the acquisitions completed in 2005 and the
two further small acquisitions made during
2006. Several important contracts were
secured during 2006, including positions on
new programmes that will support further
growth of the Group.
These record results reflect the continuing success of Ultra’s
strategy of gaining strong market positions through being a niche
supplier of electronic systems, products and services in growing
sectors within the defence and aerospace markets. The resilience
of Ultra’s financial performance is derived from the Group’s broad
mix of activities within its twenty businesses. Ultra’s ability to
combine its niche capabilities enables it to win contracts for
complex integrated systems, often involving a number of different
Group businesses. Increasingly, Ultra teams with international,
world-class partners to access “best of breed” technology. The
Group undertakes specialist system and sub-system design and
integration, again often using the combined expertise of the
Group businesses. The Group has a reputation for successful
programme execution, culminating in innovative solutions utilising
differentiated technologies delivered on-time to its customers.
Ultra’s spread of businesses across North America and the UK also
enables it to address specific national requirements where a
sovereign operational capability must be maintained.
The Group’s structure of three divisions with individual businesses
addressing speciﬁc niche areas under the control of empowered
management teams enables it to operate in a ﬂexible and agile way.
Ultra’s businesses constantly pursue product and process innovation
and this places Ultra in a strong position to provide and deliver
differentiated products, services and solutions to meet customer
requirements. Consequently, the Group sustains leadership positions
in niche markets where its technological innovation creates a clear
competitive advantage.
Revenue at £377m grew by 10% with the Tactical & Sonar Systems
division showing the strongest growth. Operating proﬁt* increased
by 13% over the previous year’s achievement to £57.5m. This was
despite the £4.8m negative impact of weaker exchange rates. At
constant currencies year-on-year operating proﬁt* growth would
have been 22%. Earnings per share* at 58.4p increased by 15%
reﬂecting lower net bank interest charges and a slightly higher
effective tax rate for 2006 than in the prior year. The high quality of
these earnings was underscored by good cash generation, reﬂecting
management’s continuing focus on this important performance
indicator. The conversion of operating proﬁt* to operating cash
ﬂow* in the year was 98%. Over the last ﬁve years the Group’s
Chairman’s Overview
02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
innovative
solutions
winning
performance
consistent
delivery
*see footnote on page 01
Order book
17% growth
£584m
(2005: £501m) 
Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman average cash conversion* has been 110%. Consequently, net debt*
at the year-end was just £7.2m. The Board will be recommending a
ﬁnal dividend of 12.6p per share, making a total for the year of
18.5p, a 16% increase over 2005.
The acquisitions of Polyﬂex Aerospace Ltd. and Winfrith Safety
Systems were completed in the year. Polyﬂex, now fully integrated
into Ultra’s Precision Air Systems business, supplies a broad range of
innovative components and sub-systems for high integrity defence
and aerospace applications. Winfrith supplies specialist sensors and
associated cables for use within nuclear reactors. The products have
both civil and military applications and complement Ultra’s existing
reactor control and instrumentation development activity. Winfrith
is now part of the Group’s Command & Control Systems business. 
In Ultra’s main defence markets worldwide, expenditure is increasing
on the repair, upgrade and replacement of equipment used in
current military operations. This is continuing to exert pressure on
defence budgets: however, the absolute level of defence
expenditure is still rising. Electronic solutions to provide ‘smarter’
equipment continue to attract a signiﬁcant and rising proportion of
these budgets. Expenditure is increasing on battlespace IT systems
and equipment to provide better situational awareness, target
acquisition, command and control and the delivery of the required
military effects with a high degree of accuracy. Funds are being
spent on equipping and protecting modern armed forces to allow
the rapid deployment of light, mobile troops anywhere in the world.
Ultra’s strategy has successfully positioned the Group to beneﬁt from
these trends.
In the civil markets, aerospace remains buoyant and healthy
demand continues both for sales of original equipment and for
aftermarket spares and repairs. Development programmes for
new aircraft types provide Ultra with opportunities to win
positions for its innovative solutions. The Group’s decision to
invest in the 787 programme is validated by Boeing’s achievement
of 435 firm orders for the aircraft by the end of 2006. The
growth in passenger air travel is strong, especially in those areas
of the world where rapid population growth is combined with
rising disposable incomes. This drives increasing demand for new
infrastructure including airport IT systems.
Ultra’s performance in 2006 extends its long track record of
continuous progress and the Group enters 2007 with a record order
book and a strong balance sheet. Ultra has the funds to make
further acquisitions that will enhance and complement the Group’s
range of niche activities in growing market sectors. The Group
pursues good quality businesses that can be acquired at sensible
prices and to which Ultra’s ownership will add value. The record
order book of over £580m represents a good increase in the year
and provides Ultra with its customary level of earnings visibility. It
reﬂects the Group’s strong positions on existing platforms as well as
its success in winning positions on new programmes. Despite the
growth of Ultra, it remained the case that no single programme
contributed more than 5% of sales in the year. This underpinned
the resilience of the Group’s performance.
Ultra has a broad range of products and services and has a successful
track record of winning positions on a wide range of international
programmes. Combined with healthy market conditions, this gives
the Board conﬁdence in further progress in 2007.
Finally I would like to thank all Ultra employees for their hard work
and continuing commitment, which have made such important
contributions to the success of the Group.
Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 – Chairman’s Overview
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03 *see footnote on page 01
Earnings per share*
15% growth
58.4p
(2005: 50.7p) 
Total dividend per share
16% growth
18.5p
(2005: 15.9p) 
