 Positioned for growth
Chief Executive’s review
In response to
changing market
dynamics, Ultra
continues to adapt 
its behaviours to
maintain its agility, 
to position for
growth and focus 
on customer need.
Rakesh Sharma 
Chief Executive
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Introduction
In 2014 Group order intake increased
signiﬁcantly, reﬂecting demand across our
market segments for Ultra’s specialist
capabilities. Market conditions, speciﬁcally
government spending pressures in the US
and UK, continued to frustrate revenues in
2014, although excluding Oman the
second half performance showed an
improvement on the ﬁrst half. Within the
Group, good progress has been made in
implementing market facing initiatives
whilst continuing prudent cost
management. The events that culminated
in the early termination of our Oman
Airport IT contract provided an unwelcome
distraction, although this will allow us to
bring to a head what is a unique and
increasingly difﬁcult commercial contract.
The Group intends to vigorously pursue all
options towards a satisfactory settlement.
The Group’s sustained investment and
constant focus on improving operational
efﬁciencies, together with Ultra’s inherent
agility has shown that the underpinning
business model is robust and is positioning
the Group for growth.
Ultra’s inherent agility has shown that the underpinning business
model is robust and is positioning the Group for growth.
Ultra’s
people
Ultra’s
customer
reach
Ultra’s
capabilities
Value 
generation
Continuous investment
Continuous investment
 
Further details on Ultra’s robust 
business model can be found 
on pages 8-11
> Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
Operational highlights
Features of the Group’s accomplishments 
in the year which will underpin future
performance included:
• The award of a £27m contract for the
Royal Navy’s Sonar 2050 Technology
Refresh (S2050TR) Programme. Under
this contract, which will be executed over
the next 10 years, the Group will deliver
and support new hull mounted sonars
for the Royal Navy’s eight Type-23
frigates. The S2050 Technology Refresh
programme will deliver, to the Royal
Navy, a world-leading sonar capability
providing persistent surveillance against
submarine and torpedo threats, at a
signiﬁcantly lower through-life cost.
• The award of a £12.9m contract from
EDF Energy for the manufacture and
support of nuclear reactor
instrumentation. Under this contract
Ultra will manufacture and support
safety-critical nuclear reactor
instrumentation for use in EDF Energy’s
current UK nuclear power stations. This 
is the second contract to beneﬁt from
Ultra’s recent investment in a state-of-
the-art nuclear instrumentation
manufacturing facility and further
cements EDF Energy’s and Ultra’s
relationship.
• The award of a contract by Airbus to
design, develop, supply and support an
electrical Ground Door Opening system
(eGDO) for its new A350 family of
aircraft. The eGDO system comprises a
set of electrical actuators, sensors and
fuselage-mounted control and indication
panels which allows airline ground
maintenance crews to open the landing
gear doors to access the landing gear
bay. Based on anticipated sales of the
aircraft, this contract is expected to be
worth in excess of £60m revenue to Ultra
over the life of the programme.
Ultra’s business model
Ultra’s prime objective continues to be to
outperform the market in terms of annual
increases in shareholder value, by delivering
above-average increases in earnings and by
communicating effectively with
shareholders and the ﬁnancial community.
The strategic framework, page 1, is
focused on ensuring that Ultra meets its
prime objective. This is achieved through
the strategies for growth, which are
described on pages 12 and 13, allied with
the business model described on pages 8
to 11. A key enabling component of Ultra’s
business model is the Group’s culture and
values, which are further detailed on pages
40 to 46.
The Group will continue to differentiate
itself from its competitors through its
technical innovation and high standards of
ethical business conduct. Underpinning this
cultural drive is a strong policy on ethics
and business conduct which is mandatory
for all employees across the entire Group.
Ultra educates its employees on anti-
bribery and corruption policies, including
gifts and hospitality practices. In the period,
Ultra decided not to pursue business in
areas where it was not satisﬁed that its
ethical standards would be maintained.
Executing against the growth strategies,
shown right, requires consistent
management focus and drive. Ultra’s
management team has to balance dealing
with the particularly challenging short-term
market conditions, whilst also ensuring that
it is fully addressing the need to continue
to position the Group for medium- and
long-term growth. The members of the
Executive Team understand through
experience, what makes Ultra different and
how to focus the Group’s businesses on
maintaining competitive advantage in the
various specialist market sectors in which
Ultra operates.
Underlying earnings per share* 
-3.1%
(2013: 127.1p)
14 1 3 12 11 10
123.1p
123.1
127.1
125.5
121.1
108.5
Read more on pages 12-13
>
4
3
2
1
Increase the Group’s portfolio
of specialist capability areas
Increase the number of long-
term platforms and programmes
Broaden the Group’s 
customer base
Widen Ultra’s 
geographic footprint
Dividend per share 
+5.0%
(2013: 42.2p)
44.3
42.2
40.0
38.5
34.6
14 1 3 12 11 10
44.3p
>
*see footnote on page 132
KPI
> 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Positioning for growth
The acquisitions we have made this year
have added signiﬁcant capabilities, market
access and a critical mass to the Group.
They have assisted us to take the next step
in developing our business model, re-
aligning how we face the market. Ultra’s
broad portfolio of capabilities has been
positioned into eight clusters, each facing
a speciﬁc end market. This gives a
framework around which the Group can
more effectively apply its resources and
exploit the domain expertise and
technologies in its businesses that face the
same end markets. This framework allows
Ultra to address opportunities with more
complete offerings, whilst maintaining the
agility of a lower tier supplier. As a result
the Group can target opportunities in
speciﬁc markets without losing the
autonomy of its individual businesses. The
cluster approach also enables Ultra to take
an enhanced view of the capabilities in
each cluster and so better manage and
prioritise the Group’s investments against
speciﬁc end markets. The Group’s
operational performance and delivery will
continue to be via three divisions. 
Ultra’s eight strategic clusters 
are as follow:
The Group constantly strives to broaden its
customer base and widen its geographic
footprint. This not only provides growth,
but increases the robustness of the
business model. Ultra has made the
strategic decision to prioritise a number of
regions and sectors with higher growth.
The Group recognises that new markets
and geographic sectors take time to enter
and so these activities are carried out in a
measured and controlled manner, with due
consideration of risk. As Ultra continues to
address larger projects and grow its proﬁle
in new geographical regions it will be
necessary to implement improved project
management and contract management
skills. Ultra, as an independent, non-
threatening partner, is able to support all
of the main prime contractors and local
industry partners. The Group is therefore
well positioned to bring its specialised
equipment, systems and services to new
long-term platforms and programmes in
new markets and regions. Further details
on Ultra’s robust business model can be
found on pages 8 to 11. 
Positioned for growth
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Underwater warfare
Land
Aerospace
C2ISR*
Communications
Nuclear
Infrastructure
Maritime
Full details on Ultra’s eight clusters 
can be found on pages 14-23
>
*Command & Control, Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
FTSE all share price index
FTSE 100 price index
FTSE all share aerospace/defence
Ultra’s track record of delivering 
above average shareholder (pence)
KPI
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 24-25 for details
>
KPI Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
Portfolio strength
To increase the breadth of the Group’s
portfolio of capabilities, Ultra continues to
invest over 5% of revenue on internal
development to generate new
differentiated offerings. These offerings are
aimed at niche market sectors where
customers preferentially focus their
expenditure. These investment activities
are led by the businesses and are robustly
reviewed by the Executive Team and the
Board. In parallel, Ultra continues to invest
in acquisitions, which bring complementary
world-leading niche capabilities and
market access to the Group’s portfolio. 
In February 2014, the Group acquired 
3 Phoenix Inc, a US business which is a
leading supplier of specialist sonar, radar,
intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance products and solutions.
The company has a 10 year track record of
delivering critical real-time sensor and
processing systems, primarily to the US
Navy, but also to commercial customers. 
3 Phoenix is now part of Ultra’s Tactical &
Sonar Systems division.
In May 2014, Ultra acquired two
companies, Forensic Technologies (FT) and
ICE. FT provides automated ﬁrearm
ballistics identiﬁcation and forensic analysis
systems to law enforcement agencies in
over 65 countries. FT is currently developing
a number of document security and
analytic products based on its existing
capabilities and areas of expertise. FT has
been integrated into Ultra’s Tactical &
Sonar Systems division.
ICE designs, develops, manufactures and
supports aerospace products including,
motor control electronics, electrothermal
ice protection controllers, pneumatic valve
controls and engine control interface units.
ICE customers include Parker Hanniﬁn
Corporation, Cessna Aircraft Company and
Meggitt. ICE has been integrated into
Ultra’s Controls business within the
Group’s Aircraft & Vehicle Systems division.
In June 2014, the Group acquired Lab
Impex Systems (LIS). LIS is a developer and
supplier of radiation measurement
solutions and services for use within the
nuclear industry. LIS provides systems
engineering, installation and support of 
full environmental radiation monitoring
systems, including alpha, beta, gamma
radiation and associated safety systems.
The business has been integrated into 
Ultra’s Nuclear Control Systems business
within Ultra’s Information & Power 
Systems division.
Customer needs
Ultra continues to adapt its behaviours to
maintain its agility and commitment to
meeting customer needs. To support this,
the Group has made good progress in
implementing market facing initiatives
which help it gain a better understanding
of customers’ real needs. These improve its
ability to offer differentiated and
comprehensive solutions in areas of
preferential spend across all its market
sectors. Ultra’s key behaviours LEAP and
LAUNCH also help to position the Group’s
portfolio of capabilities into end market
facing clusters. (More information on these
behaviours can be found on page 43).
Oman Airport IT contract
The termination of the Oman Airport IT
contract in February 2015 has had an effect
on the Group’s 2014 performance, with
revenue on the programme being limited
to that reported at the half year 30 June
2014. The substantive reasons given in the
notice of termination are related to Ithra
not meeting contractual milestones and
Ithra’s assessment is that the termination 
is unjustiﬁed, wrongful and unlawful. Ultra
is in discussions with its legal and claims
advisers regarding the termination and
recovery of Ithra’s costs and claims. It has
been considered prudent to take an
exceptional and non-underlying provision 
in the year to December 2014 in respect of
the Contract. The provision, which totals
£47m, includes the write off of the debt
owed on the Contract, termination costs
and other liabilities.
Summary
Performance for 2015 will beneﬁt from
acquisitions made in 2014 and from foreign
exchange translation at current rates.
However, set against the current market
backdrop of uncertainty over the timing and
feasibility of proposed US DoD budgets,
together with election activity in both the
US and UK, overall Ultra expects 2015
performance to be broadly stable. We will
continue to balance investment for future
growth with focus on efﬁciencies and
managing our costs to support proﬁtability.
Looking further ahead our optimism
improves as market growth drivers present
revenue opportunities for our businesses
and the expected pace of order book
execution ticks up as a result of recent
contract awards. Further growth is
expected as the Group identiﬁes and
completes acquisitions. Internally, following
on from our cost management actions, we
are launching a group-wide initiative to
standardise our systems and some of our
processes. This will enable us to go beyond
individual businesses efﬁciencies, whilst
retaining Ultra’s critical success factors of
autonomy and agility. The Board
acknowledges the short-term headwinds
but judges that the actions being taken
should enable the Group to achieve an
improved performance from 2016.
I would like to ﬁnish by thanking all of
Ultra’s employees for their continued hard
work, dedication and enthusiasm. The
ability to implement Ultra’s strategies
successfully is entirely reliant upon the
engagement, commitment and passion of
the Group’s employees. I am conﬁdent that
Ultra is well placed to execute successfully
the strategies and plans to ensure that
growth continues in the future.
Rakesh Sharma
Chief Executive
