 As the Directors
review the strategy
and carry out their
other duties, it is 
my role as Chairman
to lead the Board
effectively. To my
mind, good
governance is at 
the heart of that.
Douglas Caster CBE
Chairman
52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate Governance Report
Governance
Chairman’s governance statement Dear shareholder,
One of the key responsibilities of
a board of directors is to agree
its company’s strategy. As the
Chief Executive outlines in his
Review on pages 4 to 7, and as
we seek to demonstrate
throughout this Annual Report,
Ultra has a very clear strategic
path. Despite sustained pressures
on government budgets, at
home and abroad, Ultra’s
strategy, reinforced by its guiding
principles, culture and approach
to good corporate governance,
ensures Ultra remains a strong,
sustainable business.
Good governance
As the Directors review the strategy and
carry out their other duties, it is my role as
Chairman to lead the Board effectively. To
my mind, good governance is at the heart
of that. In order for you to see clearly how
we achieve that, we have provided a
corporate governance overview on pages
54 to 61. We also brieﬂy describe how this
structure supports the delivery of our
business strategy. You can ﬁnd more detail
in the full Corporate Governance Report.
On pages 36 to 39, we have also provided
an overview of the principal risks that might
prevent us from achieving the full potential
of our strategy. On page 58 we explain how
those risks are actively managed.
Board changes
During the year, the Board was engaged in
recruiting a Non-Executive Director. Details
of the process we followed are set out on
page 57. Mr John Hirst CBE joined the
Board on the 1 January 2015 and will seek
election at the 2015 Annual General
Meeting. John’s strong industry experience
and his understanding of the role risk
management plays in strategic decision-
making, combined with his knowledge of
regulatory and governance issues, will
further strengthen the Board’s governance
processes. A summary of John’s
biographical details is on page 57.
As was reported in the 2013 Annual Report
and Accounts, having served for over ten
years as a Non-Executive Director, Chris
Bailey will resign at the 2015 Annual General
Meeting. He will hand over the Chair of the
Audit Committee to John Hirst and Chair of
the Nomination Committee to Douglas
Caster. Sir Robert Walmsley has agreed to
take the role of the Senior Independent
Director following Chris’ retirement. On
behalf of the Board, I would like to thank
Chris for his excellent service in these roles
and wish him well in his retirement. In
November 2014, Martin Broadhurst became
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Appreciation
Before closing, and on behalf of the Board,
I want to thank the employees of Ultra
whose efforts helped us achieve so much in
what has been a difﬁcult year. I want to
express my appreciation to Rakesh and all
the members of the Executive Team for the
leadership they have shown. Finally, I would
like to thank all my fellow Directors for the
contribution they have made to our
discussions throughout a busy 2014. 
Douglas Caster CBE
Chairman
27 February 2015
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 53
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
