 Introduction
Ultra’s increasingly wide portfolio of
specialist capabilities allows it to offer
highly-differentiated solutions into the
defence & aerospace, security & cyber and
transport and energy market sectors. This
broad diversity gives signiﬁcant resilience to
Ultra’s ﬁnancial performance and provides 
a solid platform for growth. Over the last 
12 months the Group has weathered the
uncertainty in the US government-funded
market, where the lack of clarity has
resulted in delays to expected orders,
approvals and payments. The continued
ﬁscal pressures in the broader government-
funded markets, and changing market
dynamics, have tested the Group’s business
model. However, the Group’s sustained
investment and constant focus on
improving operational efﬁciencies, together
with Ultra’s inherent agility has shown the
model is robust and is positioning the
Group for growth when normality returns.
Operational highlights
Features of the Group’s accomplishments
in the year which will underpin future
performance included:
• the award of an exclusive long-term supply
agreement with Pratt & Whitney for the
electronic control unit which manages
the Electrical Ice Protection System (EIPS)
on the US Joint Strike Fighter’s F-135
engine. The agreement is effective for the
life of the engine programme, valued at
over $500m
• a £16.1m contract for the supply of
specialist instrumentation to EDF Energy.
Under this contract, Ultra will
manufacture and support safety-critical
nuclear reactor instrumentation for use in
EDF Energy’s current UK nuclear power
stations. This is the ﬁrst contract to
beneﬁt from Ultra’s recent investment in
a state-of-the-art nuclear instrumentation
manufacturing facility
• an increase in anti-submarine warfare
(ASW) spend which reﬂects the US ‘Pivot
to the Paciﬁc’ policy. The US Navy has
recently changed from issuing an annual
sonobuoy tender and issued a ﬁve-year
IDIQ competitive tender for which Ultra,
through its JV, was the only bidder.
Contract award is expected in the ﬁrst
quarter of 2014
Ultra’s business model
Ultra’s prime objective continues to be to
outperform the market in terms of annual
increases in shareholder value, by delivering
above-average increases in earnings and by
communicating effectively with shareholders
and the ﬁnancial community. The strategic
framework, page 1, is focused on ensuring
that Ultra meets its prime objective. This is
achieved through the strategies for growth
which are described on pages 14 and 15,
allied with the business model described on
pages 6 to 11. Underpinning these are
Ultra’s strategic tenets described on pages
12 and 13, which help to shape and deﬁne
the values and behaviours embedded
within Ultra’s culture, which is further
detailed on pages 40 to 43.
Positioning for growth
In response to the changing market
dynamics, Ultra continues to adapt its
behaviours to maintain its agility and focus
on customer needs. To support this, the
Group has successfully developed and
rolled out a number of internal initiatives
and tools which help it gain a better
understanding of customers’ real needs.
These improve its ability to offer
differentiated and comprehensive solutions
in areas of preferential spend across all its
market sectors. These key initiatives
include: LEAP, LAUNCH and
Collaborative Autonomy (more
information on these initiatives can be
found on pages 7, 9 and 10).
Chief Executive’s review
Rakesh Sharma Chief Executive
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 96
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
FTSE all share price index
FTSE 100 price index
FTSE all share aerospace/defence
Ultra’s track record of delivering 
above-average shareholder returns 
since ﬂotation (pence)
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 16 and 17 for details KPI
Dividend per share 
+5.5%
(2012: 40.0p)
42.2
40.0
38.5
34.6
31.2
13 1 2 11 10 09
42.2p
*see footnote on page 1
Underlying earnings per share* 
+1.3%
(2012: 125.5p)
13 1 2 11 10 09
127. 1p
KPI
127.1
125.5
121.1
108.5
96.7
In response to the changing market dynamics, Ultra continues to adapt 
its behaviours to maintain its agility and focus on customer need. Investment for growth – 
new capabilities
To increase the breadth of the Group’s
capabilities, Ultra continues to invest over
5% of revenue on internal development to
generate new differentiated offerings.
These offerings are aimed at niche market
sectors where customers preferentially
focus their expenditure. These investment
activities are led by the businesses and are
robustly reviewed by the Executive Team
and the Board.
In parallel, Ultra continues to invest in
acquisitions, which bring complementary
world-leading niche capabilities and
market access to the Group’s portfolio. In
June 2013, the Group acquired Varisys, a
UK business which develops products for
high-performance embedded computing
applications. Its product portfolio includes
bespoke solutions for customers
operating in the aerospace, defence,
telecommunications and industrial sectors.
Varisys is now a part of Ultra’s Aircraft &
Vehicle Systems division.
In October 2013, Ultra acquired Wood &
Douglas Limited (W&D). W&D provides
bespoke wireless products, radio networks,
video monitoring and wireless data
platform capabilities. These are supplied to
the defence, homeland security,
transportation, emergency services,
exploration, healthcare and utilities sectors
in the UK and to over 30 countries
worldwide. W&D has been integrated into
Ultra’s Tactical & Sonar Systems division to
form a centre of excellence for
communication products and services.
Investment for growth – 
new geographic markets
The Group constantly strives to broaden its
customer base and widen its geographic
footprint. This not only provides growth,
but increases the robustness of the
business model. Ultra has made the
strategic decision to prioritise on a number
of regions and sectors with higher growth.
The Group recognises that new markets
and geographic sectors take time to enter
and so these activities are carried out in a
measured and controlled manner, with due
consideration of risk. Ultra, as an
independent, non-threatening partner, is
able to support all of the main prime
contractors and local industry partners. The
Group is therefore well positioned to bring
its specialised equipment, systems and
services to new long-term platforms and
programmes in new markets and regions.
Further details on Ultra’s robust business
model can be found on pages 6 to 11.
Behaviours for growth
The Group will continue to differentiate
itself from its competitors through its
technical innovation and high standards of
ethical business conduct. Underpinning
this cultural drive is a strong ethical policy
which is mandatory for all employees
across the entire Group. Ultra educates its
employees on anti-bribery and corruption
policies, including gifts and hospitality
practices. In the period, Ultra decided not
to pursue business in areas where it was
not satisﬁed that its ethical standards
would be maintained.
Executing against the growth strategies,
shown above, requires consistency of
management focus and drive. The
continuity of Ultra’s management team
ensures that expertise and experience is
retained to maintain growth momentum in
the Group. Ultra’s management team has to
balance dealing with the particularly
challenging short-term market conditions,
whilst also ensuring that it is fully
addressing the need to continue positioning
for medium- and long-term growth. The
members of the Executive Team understand
through experience, what makes Ultra
different and how to focus the Group’s
businesses on maintaining competitive
advantage in the various specialist market
sectors in which Ultra operates.
Summary
I am pleased to say that early recognition 
of current changes in market dynamics,
allied with Ultra’s robust business model
and inherent agility, has enabled the Group
to position for future growth in these
challenging times.
I would like to ﬁnish by thanking all of
Ultra’s employees for their continued hard
work, dedication and enthusiasm. Ultra’s
reputation as a global leader in electronics
and software for defence, security,
transport and energy applications is built
on the endeavours of its exceptional
employees and their ability to develop
long-term value-adding relationships with
customers. The ability to execute these
strategies successfully is entirely reliant
upon the engagement, commitment and
passion of the Group’s employees. I am
conﬁdent that Ultra is well placed to
successfully execute the strategies and
plans to meet its prime objective.
Rakesh Sharma
Chief Executive
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The four main strategies 
for growth are:
s 
Increase the Group’s
portfolio of specialist
capabilities
Increase the 
number of long-term
platforms and 
programmes on 
which Ultra’s specialist
capabilities are 
speciﬁed
Broaden the Group’s
customer base
Widen Ultra’
geographic footprint
12 34
Ultra’s strategic framework
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
