 02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s statement
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to report that Ultra has
successfully managed a year of challenging
market conditions where expenditure in the
Group’s main defence markets continues to
be under extreme pressure as governments
address their budget deﬁcits and debt
levels. Through Ultra’s robust strategic
review process, the Group was able to
recognise the tightening of defence
budgets and has reacted by positioning
itself into areas of preferential spend within
these markets. At the same time the Group
has made good progress in adjacent,
non-defence, security, transport and energy
markets so that, in 2012, revenue from its
traditional defence markets represented
less than 60% of the Group total. Ultra’s
recent investments in new products and
acquisitions have enabled the Group to
achieve this repositioning to provide both a
degree of resilience to tough market
conditions and a platform for future
growth. The Group’s overall performance in
2012 underlines the resilience of its
business model and this is explained in
more detail on pages 12 to 17.
Ultra’s strategy is constantly to increase its
share of the markets in which it has
positioned itself and the Group continues
to focus on those specialist sectors within
the markets where customers preferentially
target their expenditure. An important role
of the Board is to participate fully in
robustly reviewing and testing the
Executive Directors’ strategic plans for the
Group, to ensure that they deal not just
with the particularly challenging short-term
market conditions, but also fully address
the need to continue to position for
medium and long-term growth.
It has long been a core part of Ultra’s
strategy to acquire companies that bring
world leading niche technologies and
market positions to the Group, in addition
to supplementing its organic growth. The
Board plays a key role in reviewing any
potential acquisition to ensure that it is
complementary to the existing portfolio,
ʻʻ
ʼʼ
The Group will continue to differentiate itself from its
competitors through its technical innovation and the high
standards of behaviour for which Ultra is known.
Douglas Caster CBE,
Chairman Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
achieves an appropriate strategic ﬁt, is
valued sensibly and will add to future
shareholder value. In 2012 Ultra completed
three acquisitions: GigaSat, Barron McCann
and RFI. These businesses augment Ultra’s
existing specialist capabilities in
communications, cyber & security and
power markets, all of which have been
identiﬁed as future growth areas.
Another core element of Ultra’s strategy is
continued investment in the development
of new, differentiated offerings, particularly
where the Group’s specialist domain
knowledge provides competitive
advantage. As with acquisitions, the Board
takes a key role in reviewing, testing and
approving all major investment cases. This
includes conﬁrming that the Group’s
resources are being focused and prioritised
in an appropriate manner, that risks are
identiﬁed and mitigated and that the
return is viable. Such developments are
reviewed regularly against performance,
time and cost criteria to ensure that the
Group is managing its resources and overall
level of risk appropriately. In the same way,
Ultra’s major programmes are reviewed by
the Board, during both the bid and
execution phases.
In Ultra, risk is assessed and managed at
the most appropriate level of the business.
Those risks that are identiﬁed as strategic in
nature are elevated to the Board where
they are subjected to formal scrutiny to
ensure that the appropriate mitigations are
in place. In addition to assessing speciﬁc
risks, the Board will also regularly assess
and conﬁrm the status of the overall
business, with a focus on the Group’s
competitive strategies, business
performance, regulatory and compliance
measures and the ﬁnancial performance
and accounts. Further information on how
Ultra manages risk is available in the risk
management section of this report on
pages 40 to 43.
The Group will continue to differentiate
itself from its competitors through its
technical innovation and the high standards
of behaviour for which Ultra is known. The
Group remains committed to achieving and
sustaining high standards of ethical
business conduct and corporate
governance. This report contains a speciﬁc
section devoted to the framework and
processes that are in place to maintain the
high standards of governance that the
Board requires of Ultra. Further detail about
how the Board provides effective leadership
on these matters can be found in the
sustainability section on pages 38 to 39
and the governance section, starting on
page 44 of this report.
I should like to ﬁnish by thanking, on
behalf of the Board, all of Ultra’s employees
for their continued hard work, engagement
and passion in what has been a challenging
year. With so many committed,
professional and enthusiastic people
supporting the Group’s management, I am
conﬁdent that Ultra is better placed than
most in addressing the current market
uncertainties and ensuring that growth
continues into the future.
Douglas Caster CBE
Chairman
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
2000
97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
Ultra’s track record of
delivering above average
shareholder returns
since ﬂotation (pence)
FTSE all share price index
FTSE 100 price index
FTSE all share aerospace/defence
1. Introduction 2. Strategic review 3. Performance 4. Governance 5. Group ﬁnancials 6. Company ﬁnancials 7. Five-year review
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 10 and 11 for details KPI
KPI
