 48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate Governance Report
Governance 
Chairman’s Governance Statement
Ultra is committed to effective corporate governance. Having the right people, doing the 
right things and in the right way, is at the core of Ultra’s compliance framework.  Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 49
Corporate Governance Report
Ultra is committed to effective corporate
governance. Having the right people, doing
the right things and in the right way, is at
the core of Ultra’s compliance framework.
The Board sets the tone for ethical standards
across the Group. High standards of
integrity and ethical behaviour are expected
from every employee. Ultra’s values of
responsibility, authority and accountability
and an established commitment of
‘delivering on our promises’, promote and
endorse this behaviour.
During the year, the Board has been
engaged in ensuring the Group’s
governance framework meets the changes
introduced by the September 2012 edition
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the
Code) and the Large and Medium-sized
Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013
(the Regulations). The strength of our
embedded governance framework and our
underlying processes mean, in the main,
only changes in how we report the Board’s
activities within the Annual Report and
Accounts, are required. These changes can
been seen in our Audit Committee Report
on page 60, our Directors’ Remuneration
Report on page 63 and the Strategic
Report on pages 4 to 47. Our additional
reporting includes the statement, made by
the Directors on pages 58 and 59, that
they consider the Annual Report and
Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair,
balanced and understandable and
providing the information necessary for
shareholders to assess the Group’s
performance, business model and strategy.
The processes which underpin and support
the Directors’ conﬁdence in making this
statement (which are explained in this
Corporate Governance Report) are 
long-established and fully embedded in
Ultra’s governance framework.
Having the right people in the right roles
extends to Ultra’s Board, which is
composed of individuals from a wide range
of professional and sector experience. This
ensures that we have a truly balanced
Board, with the right skills and experience
to contribute to, and challenge, decision-
making. During the year, Mary Waldner
joined the Board as the Group Finance
Director. Mary has a broad range of
experience in a number of sectors and an
excellent track record of achievement. 
Last year, I wrote to Ultra’s major
shareholders advising them that, in view of
the change of Financial Director and
internal auditors in the year, the Board had
decided to extend Mr Chris Bailey’s tenure,
as Non-Executive Director, into a tenth
year. He will continue as Chair of the
Remuneration, Audit and Nominations
Committees. Chris is a highly-experienced,
former large plc Finance Director, who
brings vital specialist and general
management expertise to Ultra’s Board. He
will provide continuity and risk reduction
of the ﬁnance function during this period.
The Board expects to appoint a replacement
ﬁnance specialist Non-Executive Director to
seek election at the Annual General
Meeting in the spring of 2015.
Douglas Caster CBE, Chairman 
28 February 2014
Ultra’s strategic framework
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
