 AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 06
This year has been
characterised by
excellent growth,
record financial
results and corporate
development to
further strengthen
our strategic position.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Adjusted net profit before tax of
£10.7m
up 60% from 2004 AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 07
The acquisition of Tribon in May 2004
transformed AVEVA’s presence in the fast
growing marine market and further exposed
the business to some of the world’s most
dynamic economies in the Asia Pacific region.
This year could prove to be equally exciting,
as we increase the roll out of our unique
VANTAGE Enterprise NET (“VNET”) to a 
wider customer base and begin to reap 
the benefits of bringing together Tribon
technology with AVEVA’s core VANTAGE offer. 
DELIVERING ’A COMPLETE SOLUTION’
For four decades, AVEVA has been delivering
industry leading solutions to some of the
world’s largest full service engineering,
procurement and contracting (EPCs)
companies, playing a vital role in bringing
engineering projects to safe, early, cost
effective completion. However over the 
last three years, traditional EPC customers
and more specifically owner operators, are
increasingly demanding vendors to be able
to co-ordinate multiple products and provide
engineering data in a neutral format for
ongoing maintenance and operations. 
With this in mind, we developed our VNET
product. Launched in 2003, VNET now has 
a proven track record of acceptance within
our customer base and is helping improve
efficiencies in some of the largest capital
projects in the world.
VNET AND STRATEGIC 
ACQUISITION OF REALITYWAVE
Historically there have been integration
problems in the handover of a project from
an EPC to an owner operator. VNET is an
innovative technology application that
enables integration and collaboration
between users of engineering information
through an internet based portal, regardless
of its format and without the customer
requiring to licence expensive and complex
authoring applications. The response from
customers to date has been very positive. 
To support the development of this
opportunity we have acquired Realitywave
for £3.2 million. Realitywave’s patented
technology is a critical component in our
VNET offering. The technology allows users
to efficiently access and manipulate large
amounts of information (be it data or
designs) by way of a unique streaming
technology. This acquisition supports
existing business requirements and 
secures a key technology as we develop 
this capability.
VNET is now ready for a wider customer 
roll out. In order to maximise the
opportunity for growth, we intend to 
invest an additional £2 million over and
above our current commitments during the
next twelve months in strengthening
solution integrators and recruiting
additional sales people. Whilst this will
constrain earnings growth in the short term,
it represents a significant opportunity to
accelerate profitability in future years. AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
80%
of the top 20 shipbuilders
use AVEVA's solutions AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 09
SECTOR FOCUS
The enlarged group targets three main
markets which contribute broadly similar
proportions of revenue (oil and gas,
marine and power), amounting to 85% 
of the overall business. Our performance
in these three markets has been very
strong with a good inflow of new
business and renewal of rental contracts.
Our reputation for excellence and ability
to deliver a ‘complete solution’ provides
us with a good platform to grow our
business in all three of our core markets.
Marine: The marine business (Tribon), 
a new market for AVEVA, has performed
ahead of expectations this year generating
revenues of £14 million. As the Chairman
has already stated, the synergy benefits 
of bringing the two businesses together
under the AVEVA brand and its overall
performance, have exceeded expectations. 
Tribon is the world’s leading provider of
marine design solutions and specialises
in hull design. Over 80% of the world’s top
twenty shipbuilders currently use Tribon and 
we are finding that AVEVA’s existing core
technology is hugely complementary to
Tribon’s own product suite. This bringing
together of the two technologies is
progressing to plan and we believe it 
will lead to improved functionality, and 
in turn, increased sales.
Recurring revenues have also increased 
as our customers become more aware of 
the enhanced offer. This is demonstrated 
by a new contract signed in the latter half
of the year with Daewoo. In December we
entered into a strategic development
partnership with Hyundai, the world’s
largest shipbuilder. Under the partnership
agreement, Hyundai has collaborated with
AVEVA in the development of the next
generation of VANTAGE Marine, committing
US$8 million to development costs, on top
of paying annual rental fees, initially to
2011. We have been excited by the progress
so far, and I am pleased to report that
Hyundai have started to use AVEVA products
well before they originally intended. This
endorsement from the world’s most
influential shipbuilder demonstrates that
our own VANTAGE technology is not only
highly complementary to the marine
industry, but is increasingly becoming
viewed as ‘must have’. We are positive that
this will lead to significant new business
opportunities during the course of this year.
Whilst we have secured some significant
new contracts in our non-core markets of
paper and pulp, mining, food processing,
chemical and pharmaceutical, these sectors
are not growing as strongly as AVEVA
business in oil and gas, power and marine.
Marine - keeping the 
mighty industry afloat
of the world's shipbuilding market is
occupied by Hyundai Heavy Industries -
AVEVA's customer and development partner
33%
of all global ship design and production
is powered by AVEVA's solutions
Over
15% Oil and Gas - the essence
of modern living
AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 10
Oil and Gas: turning to the oil and gas
sector, prior to the year-end we signed a
deal worth over US$1 million  with four
subsidiaries of the Sinopec Corporation to
provide a suite of VANTAGE products,
including PDMS. 
We have seen a steady increase in
confidence for long term oil and gas
projects around the world, particularly 
in the Asia Pacific region, and the Sinopec
deal outlined above and our investment 
in globalising our products to meet the
differing needs of customers, bodes well for
another excellent year. The World Floating
Production Report published in May 2005 
by energy business consultants Douglas-
Westwood, forecasts that the production of
floating offshore fields will almost double in
the next five years. We believe we can take
advantage of this potential new inflow of
business given that over the last ten years
80% of all new offshore projects have relied
on AVEVA solutions.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 11
80%
of all global offshore projects 
in the last decade have used
AVEVA's design solutions
50%
of the oil extracted from the UK 
North Sea in 2000 came from facilities
designed using AVEVA's solutions
50%
of the time taken to design a
major offshore facility in 1990 
is all it takes today with AVEVA AVEVA Ann Annu ual al Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 12
Power: A notable success for AVEVA has
been in China in the power industries, 
both nuclear and fossil fuelled. We now
dominate this market and work with 
over 75% of the country’s power design
institutes. China’s fast growing economy 
and the subsequent phenomenal demand 
for extra power capacity, should result in
further opportunities going forward. 
At the year-end we signed contracts
totalling US$0.3 million with the Dongfang
and Harbin Boiler companies, as well 
as the Shanghai Boiler Works. AVEVA is 
now effectively the biggest provider of
engineering IT solutions to the £1billion
Chinese industrial boiler market. All three
companies purchased our flagship product,
VANTAGE PDMS, with Harbin Boiler Works
also investing in other integrated 
AVEVA solutions. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Power - the industry, 
the lights and the magic AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 13
75%
of the regional, provincial and nuclear power
design institutes in China use AVEVA's solutions
All of the major industrial boiler manufacturers
in China have chosen AVEVA's solutions PERFORMANCE AND SALES
We have continued to gain market share in
our target sectors and across geographies,
particularly in the Asia Pacific region. 
GEOGRAPHIC REVIEW
Asia Pacific – 35% of group revenue:
£20.3 million (2004 - £8.7 million)
The migration of engineering design and
major contracts away from more traditional
markets toward the emerging economies of
the Far East has continued again this year.
We were particularly pleased with our
performance in China, Korea and Japan.
AVEVA’s successful penetration of Asian
Pacific markets stems from the investment
we have made in the region over the last
few years and is largely a result of three
factors. Firstly, an unrivalled network of
over ten offices throughout nine countries
including China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia and
Australia. Secondly, a highly experienced
and culturally astute management team led
by Peter Finch. And finally, a better than
planned performance from our marine
business, Tribon.
In terms of organic growth, process (oil and
gas and power) revenues continued to
strengthen. As we roll out combined AVEVA
and Tribon solutions this year, we are
confident that we will be able to build on
our already dominant position in the marine
market in the region. Our success has been
highlighted by concluding the sale to four
subsidiaries of Sinopec, China’s largest
producer and marketer of oil products, 
the country’s leading supplier of major
petrochemical products and the second
largest crude oil producer.
EMEA – 49% of group revenue: 
£27.9 million (2004 - £19.5 million)
Organic revenues in the EMEA region were
up 19% on the prior year. Although the
market in Europe is mature and our growth
less pronounced than in Asia Pacific,
existing customers are taking up a broader
range of AVEVA products. This is in part 
a response to a growing demand amongst
customers, particularly in Central and
Southern Europe, to improve efficiency 
in engineering projects.
Growth in Europe is also being driven by a
demand for extra power capacity, which will
in turn lead to significant additional
investment in the energy infrastructure. We
are already seeing a pan European revival of
nuclear power, with the first new design of
a European pressurised reactor currently
being built in Finland. All AVEVA products
are being used extensively for the design.
Similar projects elsewhere on the continent
are expected this year and we hope to
benefit given our reputation for delivering
safe, cost effective and efficient solutions.
Our unique VNET offering also gives us a
platform through which to exploit more
diverse opportunities as they arise. 
In terms of the marine industry, there is 
a very healthy demand for shipbuilding
worldwide. Lack of capacity in the Asia
Pacific region is beginning to result in 
a re-emergence of European shipyards.
Americas – 16% of group revenue:
£9.3million (2004 - £9.1million at 
this year’s exchange rates)
The weakness of the US dollar impacted
revenues for the year and there is an
ongoing pressure on large contractors to
migrate projects away from the US in order
to utilise more inexpensive local resources.
Despite this, our aim is to strengthen our
position in a market where we see good
long-term prospects. 
A number of important new contracts in 
the oil and gas and chemical markets were
signed during the year.
AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Other industries showed
continued growth in 2005 AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 15 TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTS
AVEVA has a long and proud history 
of providing innovative and advanced
solutions. With the acquisition of both
Tribon and Realitywave, AVEVA has extended
its capability in the marine market and
added patented streaming technology. 
These additions will provide a broader set 
of applications now and the availability 
of new technology for future products.
At the heart of AVEVA’s VANTAGE solution
suite is its proven database technology, 
still regarded as the best in the industry. 
We have already proven the value of the
database in the future versions of marine
products, as our integration of marine and
process products have moved ahead much
faster than originally planned. Another
value at the core of our technology has
been our principle of providing customers
with an upgrade path to future products
wherever possible, maintaining their
investment in data and procedures. Whilst
we are committed to providing ‘best in
class’ applications and protecting our
valuable IPR, we also support openness in
our applications and have invested heavily
over the year in providing new tools for
data exchange.
Our unrivalled domain expertise has enabled
us to combine the application knowledge
built into our products over many years with
new technologies such as Microsoft.NET,
which is appearing across the range of
products delivering wide-ranging benefits
for customers. In order to introduce new
technology and bring products to market
faster, we have enhanced our technical
skills in Eastern Europe and India and we
expect to grow our outsourcing capacity
considerably over the coming years.
In order to maintain our competitiveness 
in product development we have introduced
‘best practice’, along with the industry
leading software methodology, to ensure 
our very high degree of quality assurance. 
Over the last few years we have been
working much more closely with partners,
with this being evidenced by the joint
development with AutoDesk. Recently 
we have been working very closely with 
a number of vendors in the field of laser
data capture, an area of great interest to
customers looking to capture information
from existing plants and rebuild data 
models in AVEVA products.
With an enlarged team and a broader
product set AVEVA has all the essentials in
place to build on its competitive advantage
and further strengthen its market position.
PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION
The most important factor behind both 
the growth this year and the thoroughly
professional way in which the Tribon
organisation has been combined within
AVEVA, has been the people. There is a
passion within the group to provide the
best solutions for our customers, to continue
our product evolution using innovative ideas
and new technologies to the best advantage
for our customers’ futures.
We have welcomed many new staff from
Tribon into the AVEVA organisation and new
domain knowledge of the marine market.
I would like to thank all AVEVA staff for an
excellent performance throughout the year.
THE FUTURE
Our unrivalled technology, leading
competitive position, global scale and
reach, focus on high growth key target
sectors and planned wider roll out of our
unique VNET product, combined with a
favourable environment where our main
competitor is forcing its customers into 
a technology refresh program, imbues 
me with confidence that we will make
significant progress again this year.
AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive’s Review 16
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
RICHARD LONGDON
Chief Executive
18 May 2005 The Directors recognise the increasing
importance of corporate social responsibility
and endeavour to take into account the
interests of the group’s stakeholders,
including its investors, employees,
customers, suppliers and business partners
when operating the business. The group
believes that having empowered and
responsible employees who display sound
judgment and awareness of the
consequences of their decisions or actions,
and who act in an ethical and responsible
way, is key to the success of the business.
EMPLOYEES
The group’s success depends on the quality
of the people it employs and seeks to
attract, train and develop talent from the
UK and overseas. The group places
considerable value on their involvement 
and aims to keep them informed of matters
affecting them as employees, which is
achieved through a variety of formal 
and informal means.
The group is committed to the principles 
of equal opportunity in all its employment
practices, policies and procedures. The
group does not tolerate any harassment or
discrimination. The group practices equal
treatment of all employees or potential
employees irrespective of their race, creed,
colour, sexual orientation, nationality,
ethnic origin, religion, disability, age,
gender or marital status. The equal
opportunities policy covers all permanent
and temporary employees, all job
applicants, agency staff, associates,
consultants and contractors. The group 
also endeavours to be honest and fair in 
its relationships with customers and
suppliers and to be a good corporate
citizen, respecting the laws of countries 
in which it operates.
The maternity leave and maternity pay
policy conforms to statutory requirements.
Flexible approaches to return to work after
maternity leave and part-time or non-
standard hours and work patterns are
considered where viable. The group has
adopted a paternity leave policy in line 
with UK legislation.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES
The group’s operations consist of software
development and sales and administration
functions and therefore by their very nature
have a low environmental impact. The group
policy is to meet the relevant statutory
requirements and apply good environmental
practice. This includes minimising paper
consumption through use of electronic
media and recycling of paper, computer
equipment and toner cartridges.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The group recognises its legal
responsibilities to ensure the well being,
safety and welfare of its employees and 
to maintain a safe and healthy working
environment for them and for visitors 
and sub-contractors while they are 
on AVEVA’s premises. The group has
appropriate systems in place which review
local and world wide policy.
AVEVA Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibilty report 17
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY REPORT
