 Operations
Turnover for the year of £181.1 million (2002: £191.0 million)
includes a full year contribution from Abscoa compared
with ten months in the prior year, and the inclusion of
Titanox Aerospace from January 2003 as a result of the
Group taking control of the company from that date.
These two transactions account for additional turnover of
£5.2 million. Against this, adverse foreign exchange rate
movements, principally the weakening of the US dollar
against sterling, had the effect of reducing reported
turnover by £2.6 million.
On a like for like basis turnover reduced in the year by
6%; this compares favourably with the overall fall in the
aerospace market of some 25%. During the second half year
the Group began to benefit from the new contracts won in
prior periods and from the extension of our contract with
Rolls-Royce plc. Turnover in the second half year was 
£93.0 million, an increase of 6% over the first half year.
Operating profits, before goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, at £11.3 million (2002: £12.4 million) have
followed the same pattern as sales with second half profit
of £5.9 million increasing by 11% over the first half year. As
a result of the action taken to sustain profitability during
this very difficult trading period it is encouraging to report
that gross profit margins at 22.6% are some 1.3 percentage
points ahead of last year. 
Divisional operating profits referred to in this Review
are before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
which provides a more consistent measure of operating
performance.
Components division
Sales of £107.6 million (2002: £110.7 million); Operating
profits of £4.7 million (2002: £5.5 million).
The division is a leading international provider of value-
added distribution and supply chain outsourcing services to
OEM customers in the aerospace and defence industries.
The division specialises in the supply of small components
and through its increasingly sophisticated systems can
facilitate significant cost and working capital savings for its
growing customer base.
Sales in the second half year were 12% ahead of those in
the first half year, reflecting the extension of our long-
term contract with Rolls-Royce plc and the benefits of
new contracts secured during the year. Operating profits
increased by 15% during the second half year as a result of
efficiency and other operating improvements. 
The on-going difficulties facing the division’s customer base
in the civil OEM market are driving demand for our supply
chain outsourcing services. Existing relationships are being
expanded (Goodrich Aerospace, ITP , Lockheed Martin) and
new customers have been secured including Eaton
Aerospace. The significant increase in the US defence
budget is also providing additional opportunities for growth
and will, over the medium-term, provide a more balanced
sales mix between the civil and defence segments.
Prior year investments in IT systems have helped the
division to reduce its working capital requirements and
improve its already high level of customer service. During
the year the division acquired a 50% stake in Wesupply
Aerospace, a web based fulfilment software company, and
is now actively marketing this product to its customer base
as well as integrating the software into its own IT platforms.
Pattonair continues its European development plans both
through Titanox Aerospace in France and by expanding its
customer base in the key German and Spanish markets.
Ulogistics has successfully extended its activities with Rolls-
Royce plc with further projects being actively considered
by both parties. The senior management team has been
strengthened during the year to ensure that customer
service remains at a very high level whilst other major OEM
contracts are reviewed and negotiated.
Abscoa, the division’s North American operation, continues
to trade successfully despite the damaging strike at
Bombardier in the early part of the year and the general
weakness in the US market. New business has been
secured and further opportunities for growth have been
identified.
Chemicals division
Sales of £59.2 million (2002: £66.7 million);  Operating
profits of £5.0 million (2002: £5.2 million).
The division distributes a broad range of specialist chemical
products principally to the international aerospace market;
other markets served include manufacturers of wind turbine
blades and the plastic structures industry. A full range of
outsourcing services is provided to major customers.
Sales levels across the division have now stabilised after
the significant fall during the second half of last year, and
operating profits continue to improve as a result of the
actions taken to enhance gross margins and reduce costs.
Aeropia successfully negotiated a five year extension to
its major contract with British Airways in October 2002
and has won a number of exciting contracts, including
Eurofighter initial provisioning and two outsourcing projects
for aerospace OEM customers.
Aerovac Systems continues to secure new customers
and a significant investment is being made at its French
subsidiary to enable it to fully service its rapidly growing
moulding tool activity. Many of these moulds are for
customers involved in the development of the Airbus A380
aircraft. In March 2003 a sales and service subsidiary was
established in Italy.
Richmond Aircraft Products won an important contract
with The Boeing Company during the year and has also
expanded its facilities as customers are increasingly looking
to purchase “ready to use” products rather than just the
basic materials.
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Repair and overhaul division
Sales of £14.3 million (2002: £13.6 million);  Operating profits of £1.6 million 
(2002: £1.7 million).
The division currently comprises a single company, AEM, which is one of Europe’s largest
independent overhaul companies providing maintenance services for over 2,000 components
over a broadening range of aircraft types.
The company continues to deliver encouraging sales growth, primarily as a result of the
investments made to extend its capabilities and the steps taken to broaden its geographic
customer base. Operating profits were modestly behind those of the prior year due to sales
mix.
During the year £0.2 million was spent to extend the company’s capability to overhaul
integrated drive generators to enable it to service both regional jets and the Boeing 737 NG
aircraft. 
AEM is continuing to increase its customer base and growing range of capabilities, and
suitable acquisitions are being sought in both Europe and the Far East.
Summary
We remain committed to the action programme we implemented following September 2001 of:
• Increasing our market share through winning new contracts and extending relationships 
with existing customers;
• Improving gross margins by eliminating activities that have become marginal due to 
market changes;
• Initiating cost reductions; and
• Maximising cash flow through tight control of working capital.
Despite increasingly challenging market conditions the Group delivered sales and profit
growth in the second half of the year and continued to be highly cash generative.
We have demonstrated our ability to implement large-scale contracts successfully and we
remain very active in seeking additional contracts in our key European and North American
markets.  We are also reviewing a number of acquisition possibilities that fit our strategic
plans. With our strong management team and robust financial position we are confident of
furthering our long-term growth plans in the current financial year.
Clive Snowdon, Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review
5 
