 Chairman‘s Statement
UMECO
annual report 2004
2
Results and dividend
I am pleased to report that UMECO has
continued to perform creditably over the past
year achieving underlying growth in turnover
and consistent profitability. This encouraging
operating performance should be measured
against a further reduction in the global civil
aviation market, particularly the fall in the build
of new aircraft of some 14 per cent in 2003.
Turnover was £184.5 million, an increase of
£3.4 million; at constant exchange rates the
increase would have been £5.9 million. 
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items was £9.6 million 
(2003: £10.2 million) and is in line with the
forecast made on 19 March 2004 in respect of
the rights issue and acquisition of the Advanced
Composites Group. The reported result has
been adversely impacted by £0.9 million of
exchange rate effects compared to 2003. 
Earnings per share, before goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items, were 25.4p
(2003: 27.7p). The Directors are proposing an
unchanged final dividend of 8.5p, making a
total for the year of 12.5p per ordinary share
(2003: 12.5p). The final dividend is payable on
13 August 2004 to shareholders on the register
on 16 July 2004 and will be payable on the
shares taken up in respect of the rights issue.
Strategic developments
In line with our previously reported strategy of
becoming the leading international provider of
value-added services primarily to the aerospace
and defence markets and advanced composite
materials, the Group has effected a number of
key initiatives during the year:
n In September a new contract to supply
aerospace chemicals to Lufthansa Technik 
AG was announced; this programme was
operational from November and made a
positive contribution to Group sales in the
second half of the year.
n January saw the announcement of a very
major contract to supply Bombardier
Aerospace with a wide range of small
components under a new long term
contract. Implementation of this contract is
already underway and, post implementation,
the annual value of materials to be supplied
to Bombardier is estimated at US$80 million. 
n In February UMECO acquired 80 per cent of
Tailored Logistics Corporation for an initial
consideration of US$8.2 million. The
company is based in Fort Wayne, Indiana,
and is a specialist supplier of kits of
components primarily to the US Department
of Defense.
n In May the £44.25 million acquisition of 
the Advanced Composites Group was
completed, part-funded by the £21.0 million
rights issue that was 96.7 per cent taken up
by investors. The company is a leading
international supplier of high performance
advanced composite materials to OEMs in
the motorsport & automotive, aerospace &
defence and other industries, with
operations in both the UK and US.
Brian McGowan
Chairman 3
UMECO
annual report 2004
Management and employees
On behalf of the Board I wish to express our
appreciation to all of our employees for their
continuing efforts in what has remained a 
very challenging market place. Our on-going
success in winning new business is a reflection
of the very high level of service we deliver to
our customers. 
Prospects
There are continuing signs of recovery in the
civil aerospace market and the US defence
market remains strong. These factors, together
with the expected contribution from the new
contracts we have secured and the acquisitions
we have made, give me considerable confidence
that our immediate and long term prospects will
be much enhanced from what has been
achieved in the past two years.
UMECO now has market leading positions in a
number of key segments and has plans in place
to develop further its international presence and
infrastructure to ensure we capitalise on the
expected growth in the global aerospace
market, and in demand for advanced composite
materials in the aerospace and other industries. 
In conclusion I look forward to seeing the
continued development of UMECO as a major
player in our chosen market places – we have
the vision and resources to deliver on this goal.
Brian McGowan, Chairman
2 June 2004
“Turnover was £184.5 million, an increase of 
£3.4 million; at constant exchange rates the 
increase would have been £5.9 million.”
Rolls-Royce Trent engine
Ulogistics service provider contract
extended
