 Results and dividend
I am delighted to report that despite the on-going difficulties in the global civil aviation
market the Group has continued its recovery since suffering the significant downturn in its
operations as a result of the terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001. 
Annual turnover was only moderately down, and pre-tax profits were marginally ahead
of the prior year. Furthermore, second half turnover was 6% higher than in the first,
and slightly higher than in the second half of the prior year, the period immediately
following the September 11 terrorist actions.  Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items in the second half of the year was 15% ahead of that achieved in the first
half year, and 22% ahead of the second half of the prior year.
These improvements reflect the benefits of new contracts being implemented and existing
relationships being extended, including our long-term agreement with Rolls-Royce plc,
together with on-going actions to improve gross margins and control costs.
In the year ended 31 March 2003, turnover fell to £181.1 million (2002: £191.0 million).
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was £10.2 million (2002:
£10.1 million). The Group continues to be cash generative and net borrowings reduced by
£10.1 million during the year to £20.7 million.
Earnings per share, excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, were 27.7p
(2002: 28.8p). The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 8.5p, making the total
dividend for the year of 12.5p per ordinary share (2002: 12.0p). The final dividend is payable
on 8 August 2003 to shareholders on the register on 11 July 2003.
Management and employees
On behalf of the Board I wish to express our sincere thanks to all of our employees for their
exceptional efforts in what remains a very difficult and rapidly changing market place. Our
success in winning new business is a testament to the very high level of service we continue
to deliver to our growing customer base.
Prospects
The civil aerospace market is facing an unprecedented level of challenges. Demand
for new aircraft has fallen significantly in the aftermath of the September 2001 terrorist
actions, the impact of which has been particularly severe on US carriers with several
major operators going into Chapter 11. Towards the end of the financial year passenger
numbers decreased again because of the war in Iraq and the SARS outbreak in the Far
East. It is clear the combined effect of these factors will delay any meaningful recovery in
the civil OEM market for some time to come.
It is therefore encouraging to report that demand for the Group’s products and outsourcing
services remains at a high level as customers seek to improve their operating performance.
With increasingly large scale contracts being implemented, our growing international
presence and sophisticated infrastructure are proving strategically important.
UMECO remains profitable and cash generative. This strong financial base will enable
the Group to continue to expand through winning new business and by making strategic
acquisitions.
I am therefore confident that the actions we continue to take will enhance our medium
and long-term prospects and financial performance.
Brian McGowan, Chairman
3 June 2003
Chairman’s Statement
3
