 Chief Executive‘s Review
UMECO
annual report 2004
4
Operations
Turnover for the year was £184.5 million 
(2003: £181.1 million) and includes a full year
contribution from Pattonair SAS (formerly
Titanox Aerospace) compared to three months
in the prior year, and a two month contribution
from Tailored Logistics Corporation. These two
transactions accounted for additional turnover 
of £2.8 million. Against this, adverse foreign
exchange rate movements, principally the
weakening US dollar against sterling, had the
effect of reducing reported turnover; at constant
exchange rates turnover would have been 
£2.5 million higher.
On a like for like basis turnover increased in the
year by 2 per cent; this was a considerable
achievement when seen in the context of the
continued fall in the civil aerospace market of
some 14 per cent. Underlying growth has been
achieved in a number of businesses and the
Group benefited from further additional volume
under our long term contract with Rolls-Royce
plc. However, the decision by BAE SYSTEMS to
suspend production on the Nimrod upgrade
programme had the effect of reducing sales in
the year by £2.1 million.
Operating profits, before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, at £10.5 million (2003:
£11.3 million) were adversely impacted by
foreign exchange rate movements amounting to 
£0.9 million. Tailored Logistics Corporation made
a positive contribution to operating profits
during the first two months of our ownership.
Operating profits referred to in this Review are
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items which provides a more consistent measure
of operating performance.
UMECO Components
Sales of £110.9 million (2003: £107.6 million);
Operating profits of £4.0 million (2003: 
£4.7 million).
UMECO Components is a leading international
provider of value-added distribution and supply
chain outsourcing services primarily to OEM
customers in the aerospace and defence
markets. Through its specialisation in the supply
of small components and its sophisticated
systems, significant cost and working capital
benefits can be facilitated for its expanding
customer base.
Like for like sales, based on constant exchange
rates, grew in the year by 3 per cent reflecting
the further growth from the contract with Rolls-
Royce plc which enjoyed considerable expansion
in its aftermarket business. Overall growth was
held back by BAE SYSTEMS’ suspension of the
Nimrod programme. The sales impact of the
new contract with Bombardier Aerospace was
immaterial in the period as implementation is 
not scheduled to commence until the new
financial year.
Clive Snowdon
Chief Executive
“Operating profits, before
goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items, 
at £10.5 million 
(2003: £11.3 million) 
were adversely impacted 
by foreign exchange rate
movements amounting 
to £0.9 million.”
  5
UMECO
annual report 2004
Operating profits fell in the period primarily due
to on-going losses at Pattonair SAS in France
and a weaker performance by Pattonair in the
UK. Steps have been taken to restructure the
two businesses and to reduce their cost base.
This will entail the French business focusing on
sales and customer service activities with the UK
providing logistical support. In addition in the
UK a redundancy programme has been
implemented as a consequence of the suspension
of the Nimrod programme and the decision to
move responsibility for supporting Rolls-Royce in
Germany to Ulogistics. These actions, coupled
with some newly secured contracts, should lead
to a marked improvement in performance in the
new financial year. 
The award by Bombardier Aerospace in January
2004 of a major new outsourcing contract was
the outcome of over two years of extensive
negotiations and represents an important
breakthrough into the North American service
provision market. The contract covers the
customer’s facilities in Montreal, Toronto,
Wichita and Belfast and because of its size and
complexity will take up to 36 months to fully
implement. A fixed management fee will be
earned during the implementation period
followed by a variable fee based on the annual
value of the materials supplied. Implementation
is proceeding to plan at the current time and is
expected to have a positive impact on results
during the second half of the new financial year.
The contract is for an indefinite period subject
to commercial reviews every four years.
The acquisition of Tailored Logistics Corporation
in February 2004 considerably enhances
UMECO Components’ access to the growing US
defence market. The company will work closely
with Abscoa, UMECO Components’ other 
US based subsidiary, to ensure all opportunities
are successfully exploited. Tailored Logistics
Corporation made a positive contribution to
operating profits in our first two months of
ownership and is expected to make a significant
contribution in the new financial year.
Ulogistics continues to extend its activities with
Rolls-Royce plc and, from June 2004, will be
taking over the contract held by Pattonair to
supply components to Rolls-Royce’s operations
in Germany. The provision of further additional
services is being actively considered by both
parties at the current time.
Abscoa continues to trade successfully and has
recently secured a major extension to its
contracts with Lockheed Martin lasting until
2010. With the lease on its Fort Worth 
facility ending in 2004, Abscoa purchased an
adjacent freehold site during the year and has
contracted to build a new purpose built facility
that should be available for occupation in the
autumn of 2004.
Compstock, the UK based distributor of
electronic components, enjoyed a better year
and appointed a new managing director from
within the industry in late February 2004.
During the year under review UMECO
Components has prepared a detailed strategic
plan, the implementation of which is expected
to drive significant sales and profit growth over
the next three years as customer demand for
our outsourcing services increases and the civil
aerospace market recovers.
Lockheed Martin F-16
Extended supply contracts with Abscoa Chief Executive’s Review
UMECO
annual report 2004
6
UMECO Composites
Sales of £57.6 million (2003: £59.2 million);
Operating profits of £4.6 million (2003: 
£5.0 million).
To reflect the fact that over 75 per cent of sales
will be composite-based following the acquisition
of Advanced Composites Group, the division has
been renamed ‘UMECO Composites’.
A broad range of specialist chemical products
and composite materials is distributed, principally
to the international aerospace market. Other
markets served include motor sport, wind
energy and the plastic structures industry. 
A full range of outsourcing services is provided
to major customers.
Sales levels have remained broadly stable at
constant exchange rates. Operating profits are
modestly down primarily due to Richmond
Aircraft Products’ loss of the distribution rights
of one particular product line. 
Aeropia, working with a German partner,
successfully secured an important contract to
supply aerospace chemicals to Lufthansa Technik
in September 2003. A new subsidiary was
formed to manage this contract, Aeropia
Logistik GmbH, of which Aeropia owns 74.8 per
cent. The contract was successfully implemented
by November 2003 and is expected to make a
positive full year contribution in the new
financial year. Aeropia in the UK also won a
number of new supply contracts.
Aerovac in both the UK and France achieved
sales growth in the year reflecting the increased
use of composite materials in the aerospace
industry and a broadening of their product
range to include the design and manufacture of
high value moulds. During the year the facilities
of Aerovac in Toulouse were significantly
expanded to accommodate the expected further
growth of the business and the company has
recently taken delivery of a new autoclave
which will give it a unique capability to service
its growing customer base.
Richmond Aircraft Products grew its core
composites business during the year and
continues to invest in new equipment in order
to provide a broader range of services to its
customer base. The previously reported loss of
the distribution rights of the Rohacell product
range was a considerable disappointment for
the business, however plans are in place to
introduce an alternative product to the market
in the new financial year.
The acquisition of the Advanced Composites
Group in May 2004 represents an important
growth opportunity for UMECO Composites,
significantly increasing the Group’s existing
presence in the high growth, high margin
advanced composite materials market. 
Strategic plans to capitalise on the strengths of
its existing and new operations are already
being implemented.
60%
31%
9%
Group sales – year ended March 2004
Total Sales: £184.5m
UMECO Components 
UMECO Composites
UMECO Repair and overhaul  7
UMECO
annual report 2004
UMECO Repair and overhaul
Sales of £16.0 million (2003: £14.3 million);
Operating profits of £1.9 million (2003: 
£1.6 million).
UMECO Repair and overhaul comprises one
company, AEM, which is a leading European
independent overhauler providing maintenance
services for over 2,000 components over a
broad range of aircraft types.
The company has again achieved excellent
results with sales up by 12 per cent and
operating profits 22 per cent. This result was
helped by some one-off orders from overseas
customers which are not expected to recur in
the new financial year. The company continues
to expand its capabilities and opened a sales
office in Singapore during the year to support
its growing customer base in the rapidly
expanding Far East market.
Summary
Our core aerospace market remained very
challenging in the year under review with the
new build of civil aircraft falling by 14 per cent
and other programmes being postponed or
delayed. Against that background the Group
has performed well with sales growth having
been achieved, underlying profitability
maintained and good operating cash flows
having been generated.
The civil aerospace market is now showing signs
of recovery with increasing passenger numbers
being reported and the fall in the number of new
aircraft being built appears to have bottomed
out, with 2004 expected to remain the same as
for 2003. The medium term outlook is more
encouraging with the A380 entering service in
2006 and the new Boeing 7E7 in 2008. The fact
that Rolls-Royce has been selected as one of two
suppliers to provide engines for the latter is
excellent news for UMECO.
The US defence market, by far the largest in the
world, continues to grow and will be enhanced
by the on-going development and production of
the Joint Strike Fighter over the next decade. In
Europe the A400M transport aircraft is now in
development and goes into production in 2007.
We are particularly excited by the opportunities
provided by the acquisition of the Advanced
Composites Group, which gives the Group an
excellent strategic balance between two growth
activities: on the one hand, value-added
distribution services to the aerospace and
defence industries and, on the other, the high
margin advanced composites industry.
The combination of this and other strategic
developments detailed in the Chairman’s
Statement, expected growth from existing
contracts and the continued recovery in our
core market provides UMECO with excellent
growth prospects for the medium term. 
Clive Snowdon, Chief Executive
Airbus A380
Composite tooling development work
carried out at Aerovac France
“We are particularly excited by the opportunities provided
by the acquisition of the Advanced Composites Group.”
 
