 10 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
We successfully divested Pattonair on 29 July 2011 and as a result 
Umeco plc (‘Umeco’) became a business focused on the advanced 
composites market. The business performed well in the year to  
31 March 2012, with trading in the second half building upon the 
encouraging first half year.
On 12 April 2012, the Boards of Umeco and Cytec Industries Inc. 
(‘Cytec’) announced that they had reached agreement on the terms  
of a recommended cash offer by Cytec UK Holdings Limited, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Cytec, for the entire issued  
and to be issued share capital of Umeco. It is intended that the 
acquisition will be effected by way of a Court-sanctioned Scheme of 
Arrangement of Umeco under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 
(‘Scheme of Arrangement’). 
Under the terms of the acquisition, Umeco shareholders will be 
entitled to receive 550 pence in cash for each Umeco share held  
at the reduction record time, valuing the entire issued and to be 
issued share capital of Umeco at approximately £274 million. The 
consideration of 550 pence in cash for each Umeco share represents 
a premium of approximately 46.3 per cent to the closing price of 
376 pence per Umeco share on 11 April 2012, being the last dealing 
day prior to announcement of the proposed acquisition.
On 28 May 2012, the shareholders of Umeco overwhelmingly voted  
in favour of the Scheme of Arrangement and the proposal by Cytec. 
The acquisition is expected to complete on 20 July 2012, subject to 
satisfaction or waiver of the outstanding conditions, including the 
receipt of certain competition clearances and sanction of the Scheme 
of Arrangement by the Court.
The Board of Umeco believes that the offer from Cytec of 550 pence 
per Umeco share is an attractive price for Umeco shareholders, and 
represents a valuation that reflects the future growth potential of 
Umeco whilst providing certainty, in cash, to Umeco shareholders.
Results and dividend
As a consequence of the disposal of Pattonair, Umeco’s Supply 
Chain operation, the results for this business are shown as a 
discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. 
Excluding Supply Chain, revenue from continuing operations in the 
year to 31 March 2012 was £223.0 million (2011: £207.4 million),  
an increase of 7.5 per cent. Adjusted operating profit increased by 
11.3 per cent to £21.7 million (2011: £19.5 million). 
Consistent with the terms of the proposed acquisition by Cytec,  
the Board is not proposing a final dividend and therefore the total 
dividend for the year is proposed to be the interim dividend of 
4.00 pence per ordinary share (2011: total dividend 18.25 pence). 
Strategy
Following the disposal of Supply Chain in July 2011, Umeco has been 
focused on its advanced composites business, which principally serves 
the aerospace & defence, wind energy, automotive, recreation and 
industrial sectors. Umeco’s focus within these end sectors is those 
segments with underlying long term growth prospects, coupled with 
a propensity to switch to lighter weight, high-strength advanced 
composite materials driven by structural factors such as environmental 
regulation, rising fuel costs and safety considerations. 
 
Following the good progress Umeco made with the execution of its 
growth strategy, the Board of Umeco received an approach from 
Cytec which culminated in the Board of Umeco recommending an 
offer to be made by way of a Scheme of Arrangement.
Cytec is focused on continuing to develop its product and 
applications technologies in the composites market. Accordingly, 
Cytec understands the strategic value in creating a larger advanced 
composites offering in the industrial applications segment, building  
on the success of the Umeco business which has been developed  
to date. 
The acquisition should provide significant opportunities for Umeco to 
expand its offering in the rapidly growing industrial markets for 
advanced composite materials through leveraging its customer 
service excellence, know-how and the leading technologies of the 
combined entity within existing and new customer relationships.
Neil Johnson 
Chairman 
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page Company Information Directors
11 Umeco plc Annual Report 2012
Business Review Overview Governance Financial Statements
Board changes 
On 20 May 2011, we announced that Andrew Moss (formerly Chief 
Operating Officer) had been appointed as Chief Executive and Steve 
Bowers (formerly Group Financial Controller) had been appointed as 
Finance Director. 
Andrew Moss joined Umeco in 1999. He joined the Board in June 
2008 on his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, prior to  
which he was Chief Executive of Umeco Composites. Andrew has  
a broad industrial and aerospace background, and was previously 
Chief Executive of the Automotive and Building Products Group of 
Invensys plc. 
Steve Bowers joined Umeco in 1998 having qualified as a chartered 
accountant with KPMG. He has been Company Secretary since  
1999 and was appointed Group Financial Controller in 2004. 
Clive Snowdon, formerly Chief Executive, and Doug Robertson, formerly 
Finance Director, resigned from the Board on 20 May 2011.
It is intended that upon the Scheme of Arrangement becoming 
effective, Andrew Moss, Chief Executive, Steve Bowers, Finance 
Director and each of the Non-executive Directors of Umeco will  
each resign from their office as a director of Umeco and, in respect  
of the Chief Executive and Finance Director, that they will resign as 
employees of Umeco. They will each receive compensation in line 
with their legal rights and the provisions of their respective service 
contracts or letters of appointment.
Management and employees
Cytec has assured the Board of Umeco that, upon the Scheme of 
Arrangement becoming effective, the existing employment rights, 
including pension rights, of the management and employees of 
Umeco will be safeguarded. Discussions between Cytec and Umeco’s 
senior management in relation to any specific ongoing roles  
to be assigned to them in the enlarged group (following the Scheme of 
Arrangement becoming effective), and their ongoing terms of 
employment, may take place before the acquisition has completed.
The management and employees of Umeco have done an outstanding 
job in transforming Umeco into a highly successful business focused  
on the advanced composites market. I am especially proud of their 
achievements over the past year, one in which Umeco has undergone 
significant change, and thank them for their support and commitment.
Summary
As Umeco enters a new phase in its long history it is well positioned in 
growing markets with an experienced management team focused on the 
future growth prospects. The offer from Cytec of 550 pence per Umeco 
share represents a valuation that reflects this potential whilst providing 
certainty, in cash, to Umeco shareholders. 
Neil Johnson
Chairman
19 June 2012
Next Page
Back to Contents
Previous Page
