 3
4
5
2
1
a
b
c
Supply Chain
57 per cent
Composites*
43 per cent       
Revenue by market segment
Aerospace & defence
1 Aerospace & defence 70.1
  a - Civil OEM 57.0 
  b - Civil aftermarket 21.3 
  c - Defence 21.7 
2 Wind energy 5.3 
3 Motor sport & automotive 6.7 
4 Marine 4.1 
5 Other 13.8 
* of which Structural Materials 25 per cent
 Process Materials 18 per cent
Per cent
Umeco plc Annual Report 2010
08
Overview
Business Review
Directors
Financials
Governance
Company Information
Our markets and 
growth drivers
Innovation
Environmental pressures, high oil prices and legislation 
are driving Umeco’s core markets of aerospace & defence, 
automotive, wind and marine towards using lighter weight 
structures. Umeco’s continuing investment in composite 
materials research & development leads to products that 
improve fuel efficiency and performance, thereby reducing 
the impact upon the environment. Umeco is also a leading 
innovator in distribution and supply chain management to the 
aerospace & defence industries, supplying components for use 
on more fuel efficient engines.
Efficiency
Our Supply Chain operation delivers improved efficiency 
for customers by providing exceptional service levels in our 
delivery of high quality, approved products so as to reduce 
inventories and procurement costs. Our wide range of light 
weight composite materials provide efficiency solutions and 
result in reduced fuel and maintenance costs. With facilities 
located around the world, we operate in close proximity to our 
customers to ensure fast, reliable delivery and service. 
Performance
Our advanced composite materials are used extensively in 
highly competitive, extreme environments where cutting edge 
performance is critical to success. We have supported winning 
performances across the sporting arena – from carbon and 
glass fibre material used in racing cycles competing at Olympic 
standard to material applications for ocean racing yachts and 
we supply a number of manufacturers of high performance 
supercars and Formula 1 teams. Our Supply Chain business 
enhances customer performance with its specialisation in the 
supply of small and medium value components and use of 
sophisticated IT systems. Its growing global customer base can 
enjoy significant operational, cost and working capital benefits 
as a consequence.
Clive Snowdon Chief Executive
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review Umeco plc Annual Report 2010
09
Overview
Business Review
Directors
Financials
Governance
Company Information
T o encourage each business to grow 
organically, improve efficiencies, and to 
invest in new technologies. T o develop deeper 
partnerships with our customers by being 
totally focused on our markets 
Maximise efficiency levels 
and the return on investment 
in working capital, while 
maintaining high standards of 
customer service
Action plans have been implemented to ensure continued operational efficiency 
in response to the uncertain conditions prevailing in our markets and in the macro 
economic environment. These measures include salary freezes, selective headcount 
reductions and the curtailment or deferment of certain capital expenditure plans. The 
increased focus on working capital management and tightening of credit control has 
resulted in a much improved performance in this area
Exploit market share 
opportunities to grow 
organically
Umeco’s focus is on developing innovative products, such as wide films for the 
aerospace market. Relocation of JD Lincoln to new larger, modern and more efficient 
premises will support the growing demand for composite material in the aerospace 
& defence industries. The ATK contract is operating well with high service levels being 
delivered to the customer and potential expansion into other ATK facilities around  
the USA
Strengthen partnerships 
with manufacturers and take 
a lead role in development 
programmes
Advanced Composites Group (‘ACG’) gained Airbus qualification for its out-of-autoclave 
composite prepreg material and is heavily involved with the Next Generation 
Composite Wing project, which aims to improve aircraft wing production processes 
for lower cost and greater environmental efficiency
Expand Umeco’s international 
reach to enhance customer 
service offerings
Umeco has a worldwide presence and continues to develop its operations in Asia, 
which has increasing significance for the aerospace industry
Our strategy
Strategic objectives Progress Umeco plc Annual Report 2010
10
Overview
Business Review
Directors
Financials
Governance
Company Information
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review continued
We are well placed to benefit from recovery 
in our markets and the entry into service of 
new aircraft, and continue to seek to grow our 
market share through the development and 
delivery of innovative products and services 
Operations
Revenue in the year from continuing operations was £409.4 million, a 
decrease of 0.4 per cent. Foreign exchange rate movements, principally 
the US dollar and the Euro against sterling, had the effect of increasing 
reported revenue by £12.0 million. Adjusting for these effects and 
the full year contribution of IPM, acquired in December 2008, the 
underlying decrease in revenue was 5.6 per cent. 
Operating profits from continuing operations were £31.6 million  
(2009: £34.7 million), a decrease of 8.9 per cent. Our operating margin 
fell to 7.7 per cent (2009: 8.4 per cent) reflecting lower revenues in our 
higher margin Composites businesses. The underlying decrease  
in operating profit was 11.9 per cent.
Changes in the Group’s internal reporting and management structure, 
combined with the implementation of new accounting requirements 
in relation to segmental information, have led to Umeco Composites’ 
results being analysed as two operating segments, Structural Materials 
and Process Materials. 
Our business streams have seen mixed fortunes during the year. 
Supply Chain has benefited from contracts won and extended in the 
previous year, which have compensated for lower underlying demand. 
Structural Materials’ key markets remained depressed. Demand from 
Process Materials’ customers in the wind energy sector was also 
subdued and consequently activity levels were below our expectations. 
Nevertheless, our Composites businesses remain well positioned in 
their markets due to continued investment in product development.
Umeco Composites – Structural Materials
  2 010 2009 
Continuing operations  £m £m
Revenue  101.7 116.1
Operating profit  7.9 11.9 
  
  P e r	c e n t Per cent
Operating margin  7.8 10.2
Structural Materials develops, manufactures and supplies a broad 
range of advanced composite materials principally for the aerospace, 
motor sport & automotive and marine markets. Revenue by end 
market was: 
  2 010 2009 
  P e r	c e n t Per cent
Aerospace  32.7 25.2
Motor sport & automotive  23.0 20.2
Wind energy  0.3 1.0
Marine  11.8 12.0
Other  32.2 41.6
  100.0 100.0
Structural Materials’ management was strengthened during the 
year, with Hisham Alameddine being appointed President of its US 
operations, comprising JD Lincoln in Costa Mesa, California and ACG  
in Tulsa. Hisham Alameddine joined Umeco in 2006 having previously 
held senior management positions with Esterline.
Revenue from continuing operations decreased by 12.4 per cent or  
by 14.8 per cent on an underlying basis. Operating profit fell by  
33.6 per cent or by 34.5 per cent on an underlying basis, resulting  
in a decline in margin from 10.2 per cent to 7.8 per cent due to 
operational gearing effects.
Many of ACG’s key markets, such as automotive, marine and ballistics, 
have been difficult during the year. Activity levels at ACG’s small South 
African operation, which supplied composite parts to the Mercedes 
McLaren SLR supercar programme, have reduced as the programme 
comes to an end. The business and assets of this entity are being 
divested. ACG South Africa’s results have therefore been reclassified as 
a discontinued operation.
JD Lincoln has seen some improvement in order levels as signs of a 
modest recovery in its markets appear. During the current financial 
year, JD Lincoln is relocating to new leasehold premises close to its 
existing operations in Costa Mesa, California. These new premises 
will improve efficiency levels and enable the business to develop its 
manufacturing operations, with the capacity to meet the expected 
growth in activity resulting from new aircraft programmes.
GRPMS also suffered from soft market conditions, but the business 
has successfully expanded its product range which is expected to drive 
revenue growth in the current financial year.
Copyright 666 Road Racing Ltd JD Lincoln – new facility
The Board has approved a project to relocate JD Lincoln from 
its current disparate collection of leased buildings into a 
single 116,000 sq.ft. facility.
Moving to the new premises, which have been secured 
under a 10 year lease with options to extend to 20 years, will 
provide the opportunity to install more efficient equipment 
and to expand capacity.
In addition to improving energy efficiency the new plant will 
reduce solvent emissions resulting in a substantially improved 
environmental performance. The project has a total capital 
cost of US$10.9 million and is expected to be completed  
by December 2011.
Umeco plc Annual Report 2010
11
Overview
Business Review
Directors
Financials
Governance
Company Information
Umeco Composites – Process Materials
  2 010 2009 
Continuing operations  £m £m
Revenue  73.1 68.4
Operating profit  8.7 11.6 
  
  P e r	c e n t Per cent
Operating margin  11.9 17.0
Process Materials develops, manufactures and supplies vacuum 
bagging materials to the composites industry and other markets. 
Revenue by end market was: 
  2 010 2009 
  P e r	c e n t Per cent
Aerospace  31.0 36.8
Wind energy  29.5 35.8
Motor sport & automotive  5.5 3.0
Marine  2.0 2.7
Other  32.0 21.7
  100.0 100.0
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 6.9 per cent but  
fell by 11.7 per cent on an underlying basis. Operating profit fell by  
25.0 per cent or by 32.0 per cent on an underlying basis, resulting in  
a decline in margin from 17.0 per cent to 11.9 per cent.
Tony Steels joined in May 2010 as Managing Director of our  
Process Materials business, replacing Tim Cooper who left the  
Group in December 2009. Tony Steels has extensive international 
business experience and has been based in China for the last  
four years.
Demand levels at Aerovac and Richmond have been significantly 
impacted by weakness of the wind energy sector. While the Chinese 
wind energy market has continued its progress, elsewhere demand 
levels have been lower than expected due to project funding 
constraints. This funding environment for wind energy projects has 
led to credit insurers taking a prudent stance on coverage. We have 
maintained tight credit control and sales to the wind energy sector 
have been withheld at times in order to ensure the Group’s credit risk 
remains at an appropriate level.
IPM moved to a seven day working week in December 2009, which 
has improved efficiency through the use of longer production runs. 
However, the benefits accruing from this and other actions taken to 
improve efficiency have been offset by raw material cost increases  
and lower than expected volumes. Recovery at IPM is dependant upon 
a return to growth in the wind energy market and the introduction of 
new films for the aerospace sector. 
Med-Lab had another excellent year, achieving good growth in its 
petrochemical equipment revenue. 2. 100 per cent availability
1.  Improved 
efficiency
Umeco plc Annual Report 2010
12
Overview
Business Review
Directors
Financials
Governance
Company Information
Umeco Supply Chain
  2 010 2009 
Continuing operations  £m £m
Revenue  234.6 226.4
Operating profit  15.0 11.2
  
  P e r	c e n t Per cent
Operating margin  6.4 4.9
Umeco Supply Chain is a leading international provider of distribution 
and supply chain outsourcing services primarily to OEM customers 
in the aerospace & defence markets. With its specialisation in the 
supply of small and medium value components and its sophisticated 
IT systems, it creates and delivers significant operational cost and 
working capital benefits and above all improves customer service 
levels for its growing customer base. The Supply Chain businesses 
trade globally as Pattonair. Revenue by end market was:
  2 010 2009 
  P e r	c e n t Per cent
Civil aerospace  
– OEM  55.8 61.6
– aftermarket  23.9 20.7
Defence  18.8 17.2
Marine  1.3 –
Other  0.2 0.5
  100.0 100.0
Revenue increased during the period by 3.6 per cent or by 1.2 per cent 
on an underlying basis. Operating profit increased by 33.9 per cent  
or by 33.0 per cent on an underlying basis. This growth in revenue  
and profits primarily reflects the full year effect of contract wins  
and expansions in the prior year, and a reduction in operating costs.
Pattonair Derby continues to achieve growth on its long term contract 
with Rolls-Royce, with the full year benefit being realised from the 
transfer to Pattonair of additional parts responsibility that occurred 
during the prior year. The Pattonair Derby facility is dedicated to  
Rolls-Royce and continues to operate very effectively with the 
customer receiving exceptionally high service levels. The value of 
inventory funded by Umeco fell during the year as a result of our 
continuing focus on improved working capital management. With 
Rolls-Royce growing their market share, the prospects for Pattonair 
Derby are strong.
Pattonair Woking suffered a fall in revenue primarily as a consequence 
of lower civil aftermarket demand. The business was highly cash 
generative in the year and started to see a recovery in its order intake 
towards the end of the year. In addition, it has a good pipeline of new 
business prospects.
Pattonair Italy also suffered from lower demand and has taken steps 
to broaden and strengthen its commercial and operating management 
during the year.
The performance of Pattonair France has significantly improved, with 
the business trading profitability during the year despite tough market 
conditions. The cost base of the company has continued to be reduced 
and management changes have been implemented to strengthen  
the business.
Pattonair’s North American operations have benefitted from a full  
year of the long term contract with ATK, with revenue increasing by 
27.7 per cent compared to the prior year. The ATK contract is operating 
well with high service levels being delivered to the customer. The 
business is poised for further growth. 
Summary
The global economic downturn has continued to affect the Group’s 
trading environment, with falling air travel causing reductions in 
airlines’ capacities, leading to a reduction in aftermarket demand and 
de-stocking. The resulting deferrals of aircraft orders are expected to 
lead to delivery levels reducing until 2011. Despite these shorter term 
factors, Airbus and Boeing continue to report a significant backlog of 
orders of 6,776 (2009: 7,293 aircraft). Importantly for Umeco, progress 
on the development of the B787 and A350XWB continues. The first 
deliveries of the B787 are now within sight and this programme will 
add to our future revenue and profits. We are expecting a higher 
shipset value from the A350XWB than the B787; the former is due to 
enter service in 2013.
In the face of difficult and unpredictable market conditions, we 
reduced headcount by 7.3 per cent during the year, contained capital 
expenditure and focused on reducing working capital. We are well 
placed to benefit from recovery in our markets and the entry into 
service of new aircraft, and continue to seek to grow our market  
share through the development and delivery of innovative products 
and services.
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Review continued 3.  Reduced inventory and 
procurement costs
4.  One international 
brand
5.  Experienced 
professionals
6.  Fast reliable 
delivery
7.  Excellent quality 
standards
2. 100 per cent availability
Umeco plc Annual Report 2010
13
Overview
Business Review
Directors
Financials
Governance
Company Information
For the current financial year, we expect modest growth in revenue 
due to the effects of new aircraft build programmes and a partial 
recovery in our markets, in particular we expect growth from the wind 
energy sector. We go into the new financial year with a good order 
book: at the end of March 2010 our order book was £227.4 million  
(2009: £218.9 million). Of this, £198.9 million (2009: £190.2 million) 
relates to Supply Chain, with order books in our Composites businesses 
reflecting the shorter term nature of orders placed by customers.  
Order book values reflect scheduled customer requirements for the 
next twelve months.
Although we continue to face a number of shorter term challenges,  
the markets we serve are expected to demonstrate significant growth 
over the medium and long term. Our experienced management team  
is committed to building on this recovery in order to deliver an 
enhanced performance for shareholders. We remain confident in  
our longer term prospects.
Clive Snowdon
Chief Executive
8 June 2010
Outlook 
Continuing emphasis on cost and cash management •	
Excellent pipeline of new business opportunities •	
Well positioned in long term growth markets •	
