 8 annual report 2007
Chief Executive’s Review
Clive Snowdon Chief Executive
“GROWTH HAS AGAIN BEEN ACHIEVED
ACROSS ALL OF OUR BUSINESS STREAMS”
Operations
Revenue for the year was £333.9 million
(2006: £293.2 million) an increase of
13.9 per cent. Excluding the impact of
acquisitions completed in the year, the
underlying rate of growth was 7.7 per cent
(2006: 14.2 per cent). These acquisitions
accounted for additional revenue of
£5.7 million. At constant exchange rates,
underlying growth was 8.9 per cent.
Growth has again been achieved across all
of our business streams. This reflects the
strong civil aerospace market, additional
volumes on existing and new supply chain
contracts, and the on-going high level of
demand for our composite materials.
Operating profit of £25.7 million
increased by 19.5 per cent (2006:
£21.5 million) and by 5.6 per cent on an
underlying basis (2006: 22.6 per cent). 
Our operating margin rose to 7.7 per cent
(2006: 7.3 per cent). This reflects the good
margins of the businesses recently acquired
and the operational gearing effect of
increased volumes. As was the case last
year, there have been some significant
increases in certain raw material prices 
but these have largely been passed on
to customers.
Civil aerospace & defence
Marine
Other
Motor sport & automotive
Wind energy
Umeco
Composites
Revenue mix
2007
£152.2m
2006
£131.4m
71197 PRE  18/6/07  23:42  Page 8 annual report 2007 9
Umeco Composites
2007 2006
£m £m
Revenue 152.2 131.4
Operating profit 14.6 11.9
per cent per cent
Operating margin 9.6 9.1
Umeco Composites provides a broad range
of advanced composite materials and
specialist chemical products principally to
the aerospace, motor sport & automotive
and wind energy markets. A full range of
value added outsourcing services is
provided to major customers.
Revenues increased in the year by
15.8 per cent, or by 13.0 per cent on an
underlying basis. 
Operating profits rose by 17.4 per cent on an
underlying basis, resulting in an improvement
in margin from 9.1 per cent to 9.6 per cent.
This further significant rise in revenue and
profits reflects the growing use of advanced
composite materials in a number of
markets and the acquisition of Aerodyne in
June 2006. In particular, revenue from the
wind energy industry rose by 95 per cent
compared with the prior year.
ACG continues to trade successfully and
quickly integrated the newly acquired
business in South Africa into its operating
structure. This new business is the
exclusive supplier of composite chassis
parts for the Mercedes McLaren SLR super
car and made a good contribution to
profits in the year. ACG in the UK opened
its new state-of-the-art technology centre
and enlarged composite materials
manufacturing facility in September 2006
and should greatly benefit from this
significant investment in the coming years.
Aerovac and Richmond had a tremendous
year delivering significant growth in
revenue and profits despite the impact
of the delay in the A380 programme.
Richmond is working closely with Boeing
and its partners on the B787 programme
and leased a further two bays in its Los
Angeles facility to extend its vacuum bag
kitting production capability. The global
wind energy market, which is growing at a
massive rate, is now a key market segment
for the business and capital investments
are planned in the current year to provide
additional capacity and new products.
GRP gained market share in Europe
following its successful acquisition of
Ashland’s Scandinavian distribution
businesses in the prior year. This additional
revenue and more favourable market
conditions produced a further 
lift to profits in the year.
Aeropia, Umeco Composites’ largest
aerospace chemical distribution business,
acquired the assets of US Airmotive in
November 2006 and has already
integrated the operation into its existing
subsidiary in Miami. The business moved
into larger, more suitable premises by the
end of the year. RD Taylor and Med-Lab
both continued to trade well.
© Th. Martinez/Alinghi
ACG Official Supplier of Alinghi
71197 PRE  18/6/07  23:42  Page 9 10 annual report 2007
Chief Executive’s Review 
Umeco Supply Chain
2007 2006
£m £m
Revenue 157.6 141.4
Operating profit 8.4 7.2
per cent per cent
Operating margin 5.3 5.1
Umeco Components was renamed
Umeco Supply Chain at the start of the
new financial year to reflect the broader
range of services now provided to our
customer base. As part of this process all
Umeco Supply Chain companies will trade
globally under the well recognised
Pattonair brand.
Umeco Supply Chain is a leading
international provider of distribution and
supply chain outsourcing services primarily
to OEM customers in the aerospace &
defence markets. With its specialisation in
the supply of small and medium sized
components and its sophisticated IT
systems, it creates and delivers
opportunities for significant operational,
cost and working capital benefits to its
growing global customer base.
“INVESTMENT IN OUR BUSINESSES ENSURE
THEY HAVE THE CAPACITY AND OPERATING
EFFICIENCY TO PROVIDE THE HIGHEST
LEVELS OF CUSTOMER SERVICE”
Civil OEM
Non aerospace
Civil aftermarket
Defence
Group
Revenue
mix
2007
£333.9m
2006
£293.2m
71197 PRE  18/6/07  23:42  Page 10 annual report 2007 11
Revenue increased in the year by 11.5 per
cent, or by 5.3 per cent on an underlying
basis. The rise in revenue was held back by a
slower than expected build-up on the new
contract with Goodrich Actuation Systems
and by the impact of delays in US defence
spending on our distribution businesses in
North America.
Operating profits increased in the period 
by 16.7 per cent, or 1.9 per cent on an
underlying basis. Overall profitability was
enhanced by a full year contribution from
Pattonair Italy, formerly Provest, and robust
performances in the majority of our
businesses.  The rate of profit growth,
however, was held back by losses within the
UK electronic components activity, which
was closed in December 2006, and by a
disappointing performance at Pattonair USA. 
In Europe, the business units in the UK,
France and Italy delivered a high level of
growth in revenue and profitability
reflecting positive market conditions and
new contract wins. The impact of the
unexpected and high level of raw
material price increases in the early part
of the year was largely mitigated by the
year end. Pattonair France was successful in
securing major new contracts with Thales
Aerospace and Turbomeca and these,
together with a strong order book, bode
well for the current financial year.
Ulogistics, now Pattonair Derby, had
another very successful year despite the
delayed implementation of the contract
with Goodrich Actuation Systems.
Pattonair Derby’s long term contract with
Rolls-Royce plc goes from strength to
strength with additional products and
services being supplied to a broader
internal and external customer base. In
November 2006, contracts were signed to
acquire a five acre freehold plot in Derby
for a major new facility to house Pattonair
Derby’s rapidly growing operations. The
total cost of this project is expected to be
£7.5 million, the majority of which falls in
the current financial year; this will be
partially offset by the subsequent sale of
Pattonair Derby’s existing premises.
Pattonair in Canada has recently signed a
new contract with Rolls-Royce Canada, and
continues actively to pursue new customer
opportunities. Bombardier Aerospace has
recently served notice of its intention to
terminate its relationship with Pattonair.
The timing and basis of termination has yet
to be finalised but, based on historic levels
of profit generated by the contract and on
the likely costs associated with the exit, the
impact is not expected to be material.
Trading levels at Pattonair USA were
impacted by delays in American defence
spending on certain projects. Order intake
improved considerably during the second
half, but this came too late to have a major
impact on the results for the year. Paul
Fanelli joined the business as President in
January 2007 and has already strengthened
the senior management team.
Umeco Supply Chain opened a new
facility in Xi’an, China, during the year
and has started to generate incremental
business for both Pattonair and Aeropia.
Additional sales staff are to be recruited 
in the current financial year.
Umeco Repair & Overhaul
2007 2006
£m £m
Revenue 24.1 20.4
Operating profit 2.7 2.4
per cent per cent
Operating margin 11.2 11.8
Umeco Repair & Overhaul now comprises
three businesses; AEM, one of the largest
independent component repair & overhaul
facilities in Europe, Avionics Mobile
Services (‘ AMS’), which installs and
overhauls avionic equipment, and Antavia
which was acquired in October 2006.
Antavia, based in Toulouse, is a provider
71197 PRE  18/6/07  23:42  Page 11 12 annual report 2007
Chief Executive’s Review 
of similar services to those of AEM, but has 
a complementary capability and customer
base. Aviation Windings and Aeromedic
Innovations, businesses acquired in the
previous financial year, were fully
integrated into AEM during the year and
were both moved to a new freehold facility
at Luton airport.
Revenue increased in the year by
18.1 per cent, but fell by 7.7 per cent on an
underlying basis. Operating profits rose by
12.5 per cent but fell by 31.1 per cent on an
underlying basis.
The fall in underlying revenue and profits
reflects a decision made by AEM during 
the year to reduce business levels with 
one significant overseas customer for
commercial reasons. In addition AMS had a
disappointing first half year but, following
a senior management change, enjoyed a
better second half.
AEM was successful in broadening its
customer base and won a number of
new contracts during the year including
the supply of first aid kits to British
Airways. The business goes into
the new financial year with a record
order book.
“CAREFULLY TARGETED ACQUISITIONS
HAVE EXTENDED BOTH OUR GEOGRAPHIC
COVERAGE AND OUR PRODUCT AND
SERVICE OFFERINGS”
We have the management team and financial resources
in place to support the Group’s ambitious plans
71197 PRE  18/6/07  23:42  Page 12 annual report 2007 13
AMS also secured some larger contracts
late in the financial year positioning it well
for a better start to the 2008 financial year.
With a reduced cost base, a much higher
level of profitability is now expected.
Antavia achieved the profit contribution
expected at the time of the acquisition
and is now working closely with other
businesses in the division to achieve some
identified revenue synergies. 
Branding and values
The Group-wide branding project
announced in June 2006 was successfully
completed by the end of the year. It has led
to a significant enhancement in the
external awareness of the Group and our
activities in the key markets in which we
operate. In order to develop further our
branding and marketing efforts the Group
has produced a short corporate video
which can be viewed on our website,
www.umeco.com. 
Summary
2007 was another very positive year for the
Group. We have delivered high growth in
underlying revenues and profits despite
some adverse factors outside of our
control. We continue to win significant
new contracts, extend existing customer
relationships and invest in our operations
to ensure that we have sufficient capacity
to meet our longer term growth prospects.
During the year our order intake
continued to grow. At the end of March
2007, Umeco’s order book stood at
£168.1 million (2006: £143.8 million).  This
is based on customer requirements over
the ensuing year, and excludes the
expected first year business from the new
contracts with Thales and Turbomeca.
Civil aerospace build rates continue 
to rise and with the A380 going into
production later this calendar year and the
B787 next year we expect the civil market
to be strong for the foreseeable future.
With ever-rising energy prices and
industry’s increasing appetite for more
environmentally sustainable solutions,
demand for our advanced composite
materials from a growing number of
industries is expected to continue to
increase at a high rate in the coming years.
We continue to work closely with major
customers to ensure that the on-going
development of our products and services
meets their requirements and obtain the
necessary product approvals.
In the current year, we have plans to
expand further our geographic footprint
and have now established Umeco Asia 
as a trading company in Singapore,
replacing our representative office in that
important region. 
In summary, we are looking forward to
another successful year.  Our financial
position is strong and the markets in
which we operate are buoyant. Our
management teams will continue to
drive for high rates of organic growth
and seek additional acquisition
opportunities which match our strict
investment criteria.
Clive Snowdon
Chief Executive
5 June 2007
MP4-22 courtesy of ACG as Official Supplier to Vodafone McLaren Mercedes
71197 PRE  18/6/07  23:42  Page 13
➦
