 An endorsement of our strategy
These results are testimony to the fact that our strategy of
focusing resources on brands, categories and countries with the
highest growth and proﬁt potential is working.
One key area is developing and emerging markets. Over the next
few years consumer spending in these markets will overtake
developed countries in terms of purchasing power parity. Unilever
has an unparalleled footprint in the developing world, as well as
an extensive knowledge of local consumers, and a proven ability
to deliver health, hygiene and nutrition products which meet the
needs of populations which are growing in size, wealth and
aspiration.
Personal care – another strategic priority – saw continued strong
growth, at nearly 7%. It continues to be our fastest-growing
business, with strong global brands like Dove, Pond’s, Lux and
Rexona.  
Our Vitality mission – to help people feel good, look good and
get more out of life – remains central to our strategy, inspiring
products such as a very low-fat variant of Hellmann’s mayonnaise;
Amaze snacks, with nutrients to help support the mental
development of school-aged children; Lipton Linea slimming teas;
and the Dove pro
•
age range with beneﬁts for mature women.
Of course, our brands must be constantly refreshed to retain their
edge. In 2007, across each of our major categories, growth was
driven by a combination of innovation – new products and new
mixes – and renovation – the strengthening of existing brands
through new variants, new packaging or new marketing. 
In 2007 we focused on bigger innovations and rolled them out
faster around the world. Clear, a shampoo with superior anti-
dandruff active delivery technology, was launched simultaneously
in several countries, including three of the biggest hair care
markets in the world – China, Russia and Brazil. We also achieved
a better transfer of mixes across continents and cultures, in some
cases creating new markets. For example, we successfully
launched our male deodorant brand Axe in Japan. After just six
months it is the leader in its market.
A leaner, ﬁtter business
During the year we made signiﬁcant progress in reshaping the
organisation to create a leaner, more ﬂexible business structure. 
Our One Unilever operating model is being implemented in every
major country. We are now taking this a step further with the
creation of new multi-country organisations – clusters of
neighbouring countries with one central management structure,
leveraging regional scale through shared services for functions
such as HR, IT and Finance. These changes are all part of our
accelerated programme of restructuring announced last summer.
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Report of the Directors continued
Group Chief Executive
I am pleased to report on a good year for Unilever – one in which
we continued to grow competitively, consistently and proﬁtably.
With a clear growth strategy and an organisational structure to
support it, there is growing evidence of improved momentum in
our business.
In 2007 underlying sales grew by 5.5% – the third consecutive
year of accelerating sales growth. At the same time, we achieved
an underlying improvement in our operating margin, despite
sharply rising commodity costs. Our growth was broad-based,
across all our major regions and categories.  
In Europe we achieved growth of nearly 3% – up from 1% the
year before. The beneﬁts of all the structural changes we have
made in this region over the past three years are now coming
through both in terms of growth and underlying margin.
Russia was the star performer – with growth in the high teens –
but all our major European businesses grew in 2007.
In the Americas full year growth was 4%. Brazil and Mexico
showed an improving performance during the year, while the US
grew solidly at 3%.
In Asia Africa we recorded 11% growth. The performance reﬂects
not just the vibrancy of these markets but also the high priority
which we place on building our business in this part of the world.
Once again, India and China were important contributors to our
success.
The picture was equally strong across our categories driven by
some great innovations.
Home care had a strong year, fuelled by an excellent performance
from our laundry business where the Dirt is Good brands
strengthened still further on the back of innovations like Persil
Small & Mighty. We also had great success in household care with
innovative new variants of brands like Cif and Domestos.   
Our Foods category also did very well. Our largest brand Knorr
came close to €4 billion in sales. Lipton tea prospered from a
series of good innovations and so too did ice cream. Unilever
Foodsolutions, our global food service business, also turned in
another good performance, conﬁrming the important opportunity
that out-of-home consumption offers us. Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
Report of the Directors continued
Group Chief Executive continued
We further shaped our portfolio through disposals and
acquisitions, including the announced sale of Boursin and Lawry’s
– brands that offered limited growth potential for Unilever. We
also announced agreements to acquire the Buavita vitality drinks
brand in Indonesia and – only recently – Inmarko, the leading ice
cream business in Russia. These transactions accelerate our
strategy of building leadership positions in fast-growing markets.
This is the right strategy for Unilever but – like any strategy – it is
only as good as the execution. That is why we also continue to
build our strengths in critical areas such as consumer marketing
and customer development. In both cases our progress was
recognised externally. In marketing, we received a clutch of
awards at the Cannes International Advertising Festival, with Dove
and Axe achieving three ‘Grand Prix’ trophies. In customer
development, Unilever was named International Supplier of the
Year by Tesco for the second year running.
We are also raising our game in research and development (R&D),
recognising the crucial role technology can play in the quality of
our innovations. Underlining the importance of R&D, we
appointed our ﬁrst Chief Technology Ofﬁcer, Neal Matheson, in
2007. Neal leads the development of world class capabilities in
science and technology and champions excellence in all our
innovation activity. 
Of course, some changes required difﬁcult decisions. In Europe,
the restructuring is leading to signiﬁcant job losses. But painful 
as these decisions have been, they are the right ones for the long-
term health of the business. 
Keeping sustainability at the heart of Unilever
We believe Unilever can only continue to thrive if we conduct our
business in a sustainable manner.
Integrating social, economic and environmental considerations
therefore sits at the heart of many of our brand strategies. A
great demonstration of this was the decision to source all of our
tea from sustainable, ethical sources. To support this signiﬁcant
change, we asked the Rainforest Alliance to start auditing our tea
suppliers with immediate effect. The aim is to have all Lipton
Yellow Label and PG Tips tea bags sold in Western Europe
certiﬁed by 2010 and all Lipton tea bags sold globally by 2015. 
We also set the ambitious target of a further 25% reduction in
the business’s CO2 emissions from energy sources used in
production by 2012. And we continued to develop our
partnerships with key retail customers, sharing our sustainability
expertise to support them in achieving their goals. Wal-Mart
responded by naming us 2007 Supplier of the Year for
Sustainable Engagement. 
The year ahead
Notwithstanding some economic uncertainty and the rising costs
of many materials, we are conﬁdent that Unilever can grow
consistently, proﬁtably and competitively in 2008.
The changes we have made in recent years leave Unilever more
resilient and better placed than ever before to meet challenges
and respond to opportunities. We have a more ﬂexible, dynamic
structure, an increasingly powerful brand portfolio, an
unparalleled footprint in the developing world and – in 2008 –
we have another exciting programme of innovations and new
product launches. Furthermore, we operate in sectors less
susceptible than others to the effects of an economic downturn:
people will always need to eat, wash and clean their homes.
For all these reasons we remain optimistic about the year ahead
and conﬁdent of making further progress towards our longer-
term ﬁnancial objectives.
On a personal note I would like to thank two members of the
Unilever Executive who will leave us in 2008 - Kees van der Graaf
and Ralph Kugler. They have been valued colleagues over many
years and I thank them for their contribution. Indeed, I would
thank the whole of my Executive team, including two great
additions during the year, Mike Polk and Jim Lawrence, the latter
joining from outside as our new Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Thanks
also to my colleagues on the Boards, under our new Chairman,
Michael Treschow, and especially to every one of our employees
around the world for their invaluable contribution to the
business's progress in 2007.
Working together, as One Unilever, I am conﬁdent that we can
look forward to delivering continued success in 2008.
Patrick Cescau
Group Chief Executive
