 This is particularly pleasing given the state of the global economy.  
A year ago when I was drafting my statement for our 2008 
Annual Report there was little cause for business to be optimistic. 
The world was in one of the most serious economic downturns 
that had ever been experienced. Unemployment was high and 
rising, consumer confidence low.
Much of Unilever’s ability to weather this storm so well is due  
to Paul Polman’s leadership. He has sharpened the strategy, 
improved execution in the market place, sharpened the emphasis 
on innovation and injected a new sense of energy and urgency 
into the Group. Our investors have recognised this. Unilever  
was ranked fifth on total shareholder return in its peer group  
of 21 companies.
Paul Polman was not the only addition to the Boards in 2009.  
We also welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors – Louise 
Fresco, Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh. Their arrival has strengthened 
both the breadth of experience and the diversity of the team.
Louise Fresco is Professor of International Development and 
Sustainability at the University of Amsterdam and a visiting 
Professor at Stanford University. Her deep knowledge of 
agriculture and sustainability will be of great value as we prepare 
ourselves to operate in a world where both food and water will 
become increasingly scarce.
Ann Fudge is a non-executive director at Novartis and at General 
Electric. Ann served as the chairman and chief executive officer  
of Young & Rubicam Brands from 2003 to 2006. Prior to joining 
Young & Rubicam, she worked at General Mills and at Kraft 
Foods. Ann has great knowledge and experience of branded 
consumer goods and, particularly, the food industry.
Paul Walsh is chief executive officer of Diageo and a  
non-executive director of FedEx Corporation. He is a member  
of the Business Council for Britain, and chairman of the Scotch 
Whisky Association. Paul is one of Britain’s most respected 
business leaders.
Ann and Paul sit on the Remuneration Committee, bringing its 
composition in line with the UK Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance, which states that this committee should comprise  
at least three independent non-executives.
I am also delighted to announce that The Rt Hon Sir Malcolm 
Rifkind MP has agreed to be nominated for election as a  
Non-Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs. We believe that  
Sir Malcolm with his broad background in international affairs  
will be a valuable addition to the Boards.
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik and Narayana Murthy will be retiring  
as Non-Executive Directors at the end of our 2010 Annual  
General Meetings (AGMs). Narayana and Wim have served on  
our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation (CRRC) and Audit 
Committees respectively, and Leon as Chairman of the CRRC. On 
behalf of our Boards, I take this opportunity to thank them all for 
their individual contributions and service since their appointments. 
At the AGMs in May 2010 we intend to propose Jean-Marc Huët 
for election to the Boards. Jean-Marc took over as Chief Financial 
Officer in February 2010 following the departure of Jim Lawrence.
The first quarterly dividend will be paid on 17 March. This change  
to quarterly dividends will result in more frequent payments to 
shareholders which I hope you will find helpful.
Finally, on behalf of the Boards, I would like to extend my sincere 
thanks to all of Unilever’s 163,000 employees across the world. 
They have had to cope with difficult economic conditions 
externally and significant change internally. Yet they have still 
managed to deliver an excellent set of results.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
Chairman’s 
statement
Michael 
Treschow
Chairman
I am delighted to be able to report that Unilever 
has had a good year. We have seen solid  
progress on our top line and an improvement  
in underlying operating margin.
Report of the Directors  Overview
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
