 Chairman’ s statement
When I joined Unilever in May 2007 I was aware that the Unilever
Executive led by Patrick Cescau was driving a process of sweeping
change aimed at transforming the Group. Since then I have
visited a number of Unilever operations in Asia and Europe. I have
met with many employees and learned a great deal about the
brands which the Group sells and the technology which underpins
them. I have also spoken to investors to get their perceptions of
the business. 
All of these encounters have conﬁrmed the preconceptions which
I had before joining the Group: Unilever is a business with an
extraordinary portfolio of brands, talented people, deep roots in
developing and emerging markets, a strong commitment to
sustainability and a distinctive corporate culture.
The Group’s strong performance in 2007, with higher growth and
an improvement in underlying margin, is something about which
the entire business can feel proud. It is also further validation that
the strategy being pursued by Patrick and his team is the right
one, and that this strategy is being executed very effectively.
This strategy with its sharp focus on Vitality products, developing
markets and faster growing product areas like personal care has
dramatically changed the business. The structure is much leaner
and simpler. It is enabling Unilever to maximise its considerable
advantages of buying, manufacturing and marketing scale.
Some of the restructuring which has taken place has led to a
reduction in employee numbers. Decisions which have an impact
on employees’ lives and livelihoods are never taken lightly.
However, I have been impressed and reassured by the caring and
responsible way in which the Group has executed these changes.  
The Boards in 2007
Corporate governance in Unilever has undergone radical change
in the period since 2004. We continue to ensure that we meet
the highest standards in all the markets in which we operate.
The composition of the Boards themselves has also evolved. We
have enriched their diversity and experience with three new Non-
Executive Directors: Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu and
Genevieve Berger. 
Narayana, co-founder and Chairman of Infosys Technologies
Limited, brings a deep knowledge of emerging markets and
expertise in IT as well as impressive business leadership skills.
Hixonia is a highly experienced Non-Executive Director with Sasol
Ltd. She is also an Advisory Board Member of JP Morgan South
Africa and brings ﬁrst-hand experience of African markets.
Genevieve contributes her impressive expertise in research and
development; she is Professor of Biophysics and Medical Imaging
at Paris University VI and Chairman of the Advisory Board ‘Health’
for the EU Commission for Research. 
All three joined our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation
Committee when they took up their posts in May. Their
appointment to this committee, now chaired by Lord Brittan,
signals its growing importance and the Group’s commitment to
keeping sustainability at the heart of its activities.
Each of the newcomers was given an extensive programme of
induction covering key issues facing the business.
In September 2007 we also welcomed Jim Lawrence as our new
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer; he will be proposed for election as an
Executive Director at the AGMs in May 2008. Jim, who came
from General Mills, is a Non-Executive Director of British Airways
and Avnet. He replaced Rudy Markham who retired in 2007 after
a distinguished career spanning four decades. 
Whilst welcoming Jim, we will be saying goodbye to two
Directors who are leaving. Kees van der Graaf after 32 years
service in the business, most recently as President, Europe and
Ralph Kugler, currently President, Home and Personal Care, who
has served the business for 29 years. On behalf of the Boards I
thank them both for the signiﬁcant contribution they have made
to our business throughout their careers.
During the year, we also said goodbye to Jean-Cyril Spinetta who
stepped down as a member of the Boards and the Remuneration
Committee. I would like to acknowledge his wise counsel and
experience during his term as a Non-Executive Director.
In our Board meetings, we have discussed a wide range of topics
including the Group’s annual plan, performance in key markets
such as Russia and China, organisation and talent, and the role of
science and technology. We also reviewed and fully agreed the
Unilever strategy and the new plans to accelerate change,
including portfolio change and business restructuring. 
An important part of my role is consistently to evaluate the
effectiveness of the Boards. In 2007 our Senior Independent
Director and I conducted a formal assessment, including
performance-related interviews with each Board member. The
ﬁndings were discussed by the Boards and will result in further
improvements. 
I am proud that we have Boards that are properly equipped to
give Patrick and his team all the support that they need.
On a personal note, I ﬁnd this an exciting time to work for
Unilever. The business is doing well and, with its wealth of
talented people, its great global brands and its ambitious business
plans, is on track to do even better. On behalf of the Boards, I
would like to thank all the Group’s employees around the world
for all that they have done in 2007. I look forward to serving the
Unilever Group to the very best of my ability in the years ahead.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
Report of the Directors
