 Delivering growth in a tough year
At the beginning of 2009 we took a long-term view, dropping 
guidance and setting the objective of restoring volume growth 
while protecting cash flow and underlying operating margin. As 
well as managing the short-term challenges, we increased support 
behind our brands and invested in R&D and people – the surest 
route to long-term shareholder value creation.
Volume growth was 2.3%, with acceleration throughout the year. 
This was driven by sharper execution and strong innovations, 
supported by incremental investment behind our brands in 
advertising and, to a lesser extent, promotions. Underlying sales 
growth was 3.5%.
Growth was broad based across markets and categories. By the 
end of the year we were growing volume share in two thirds  
of our business, compared with only one third a year earlier. Our 
competitive position strengthened during the year. Our biggest 
brands are getting stronger – ten of the top 13 brands are gaining 
volume share.
Good cost discipline meant that underlying operating margin was 
up 0.2% to 14.8% and tight working capital control meant cash 
flow from operating activities increased by €1.4 billion.
How we delivered
Recognising the severity of the economic crisis early and responding 
quickly was key to our strong performance, even if it meant some 
tough choices. The focus on volume growth, combined with 
protecting margins and cash flow, proved to be the right drivers  
in the current environment.
We targeted four key areas of activity:
Bigger and better innovations, rolled out faster and to more markets
Our innovations are getting bigger and better. The One Unilever 
structure allows for faster roll-out across multiple geographies. 
Dove Minimising Deodorant, for example, was rolled out across 
37 markets; Signal White Now to 21 markets and Knorr Stockpots 
to 12 markets; Clear shampoo is now in 35 markets; and following 
its launch at the end of 2009, Dove for Men will be rolled out 
across 50 markets. Our innovation pipeline is equally getting 
stronger. The number of innovations in the pipeline with  
an expected incremental turnover in excess of €50 million has 
doubled. The opening of a new research centre in Shanghai, our 
second in the emerging markets, reflects a long-term commitment 
to R&D. Innovation will continue to be the key growth driver for 
your company. The business publication Fast Company recently 
recognised us as the fourth most innovative company in 
advertising and marketing.
More discipline throughout the organisation
Serving the consumer and customer with increasing passion  
every day is critical to our success. To help develop categories and 
accelerate our growth with our customers we have created a new 
global customer supply structure and are rolling out state of the 
art customer innovation centres to all regions. Our progress was 
recognised: we gained supplier of the year awards from a number 
of top customers. In a performance culture, we are increasingly 
focused on disciplined execution.
A more competitive cost structure
Our emphasis on protecting short-term business fundamentals 
meant driving out costs that do not add value for consumers and 
customers. This included accelerating much needed restructuring 
projects, leveraging scale by moving to global procurement, 
establishing regional sourcing organisations across each of  
our geographies and simplifying and further streamlining our 
organisational structure. In total we achieved savings of over  
€1.4 billion, well ahead of target and which helped fuel investment 
behind our brands. By adopting best practices we also made 
significant improvements in working capital (€1.9 billion).
Driving a performance culture
We start from a strong base of values and principles, which have 
served us well over the years: integrity, trust, investing in people, 
doing the right thing for the long term. In very competitive 
markets, we need to further increase consumer and customer 
focus, speed of action, and responsibility and accountability.  
To achieve this we have made the organisation flatter, simplified 
target setting and sharpened individual performance management.
The organisation rose to the challenge, showing its competitive 
strength in managing change. I am proud to work with a strong 
leadership team and a dedicated group of colleagues throughout 
the world. The results in 2009 are a testament to their passion, 
commitment, skill and hard work.
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review
Despite a challenging economic environment it 
has been a good year for Unilever. We exceeded 
objectives while at the same time taking action  
to ensure the future success of your company.
Paul Polman
Chief Executive 
Officer
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
We equally made good progress in other areas to position  
us for future growth:
We sharpened the portfolio
The announced acquisition of Sara Lee’s personal care brands, 
including Sanex, Radox and Duschdas, will significantly strengthen 
our European business. We made smaller, bolt-on acquisitions, 
such as the TIGI professional hair care brands, mainly in the  
US and the Baltimor ketchup business in Russia. We assumed  
total control of our business in Vietnam and continued to divest 
non-strategic assets, such as our remaining equity stake in 
JohnsonDiversey and plantations in Congo.
We strengthened our supply chain capability
The appointment from outside of our first Chief Global Supply 
Chain Officer reflects the importance we attach to strengthening 
our operations and to leveraging our scale right across the  
supply chain.
We began the move to global business services
We created Unilever Enterprise Services (UES) to bring together  
HR and Finance transactions, as well as IT and Information 
Management services. UES will enable us to leverage scale in 
order to deliver improved services at better value. At the same 
time it will free up capacity for our businesses to concentrate  
on supporting our brands in the market place.
During the year we also found solutions to concerns raised by 
stakeholders, including the settlement of long running labour 
disputes in Pakistan and India. We continued to take the lead in 
driving sustainability, especially in moving to sustainable palm oil, 
converting to environmentally-friendly (HC) refrigerants in our  
ice cream freezers and in supporting smallholder farming.
Where we could do better
Despite significant progress, we did not fully achieve all our goals.
In two key markets, India and Spain, we took longer to respond to 
changing market dynamics and to the intense level of competition, 
especially from low-cost local competitors. And in two of our 
biggest categories – hair and spreads – we still need to build share 
consistently everywhere.
Our brands have plenty of room for improvement. Product  
quality is getting better, but we need more of our products  
to show superiority, and there is ample scope to sharpen our 
communications and to set the innovation bar even higher.
We are getting better at serving our customers but again we  
still fall short of best in class, for example in customer service  
levels and the on-shelf availability of our products.
Faced with growing competitive pressures, especially from 
lower-cost producers, we must continue to drive out all non 
value-added costs, building on the progress we have made  
in the last year.
The organisation is working hard in all these areas and I am 
confident that we will see continuous improvements. This is 
important because 2010 promises to be every bit as challenging. 
We expect two of the major drivers of our business – consumer 
spending and consumer confidence – to remain low. We  
also expect competitors to accelerate their plans to regain lost  
ground. This requires the best of us and we are ready for it.
A new business model
With confidence in our ability to grow we launched a renewed, 
bold vision for the company – to double our size while improving 
our environmental footprint. With our portfolio of brands, 
presence in emerging markets and long-standing commitment  
to shared value creation – in which the long-term interests of  
the company, its communities and stakeholders are all directly 
linked – we believe your company is well placed to deliver on  
this ambition.
When it comes to environmental impact, for example, we lead  
the industry in the move to sustainable sourcing of commodities 
such as palm oil and tea. In fact we have given a firm commitment 
that by 2015 all of our supplies of palm oil and tea will come from 
certified sustainable sources.
Consumers will also have to change their habits. Through the 
Cleaner Planet Plan our laundry brands are helping to educate 
people about the benefits of washing at lower temperatures and 
using shorter cycles. With our products used in 125 billion washes 
a year, small actions like this can make a big difference. Likewise, 
poor sanitation and lack of hygiene standards are still the root 
causes of millions of preventable deaths, especially amongst 
children. With our health and handwashing campaigns we have 
reached millions of people over the years. The Lifebuoy brand’s 
ambitious new target is to change the hygiene behaviour of  
1 billion people by 2015.
Leadership like this explains why, for the 11th year running, 
Unilever was sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 
– a feat unmatched by any other company.
Looking ahead
2009 was a good year for Unilever despite the tough conditions. 
2010 won’t be any easier, but by embedding the changes we are 
already making and by fostering a sharper performance culture, 
there is no reason why we can’t go on growing in line with our 
ambitions. And we will do it in a way that continues to make  
our consumers, customers, partners and employees proud to  
be associated with Unilever.
Thank you for your support over 2009.
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
Report of the Directors  Overview
6 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
