 Against the backdrop of a continuing tough economic 
environment, Unilever delivered a good performance in 2011.  
We have a stronger business, with a compelling vision, a sharper 
organisation and an increasingly effective performance culture. 
In a year marked by natural disasters 
and political turmoil, Unilever’s 
performance stands out all the more. 
Beyond delivering solid results, the 
Group has been taking the right actions 
for the long term, building a sustainable 
growth model for our business. 
This model reflects the values that are 
central to Unilever’s approach to doing 
business – knowing it can only prosper  
if the societies and communities in 
which it operates similarly benefit from 
its presence.
We also see good governance as an 
essential foundation for the long-term 
success of the Group, and your Directors 
firmly believe that acting with integrity 
and upholding the highest standards of 
corporate governance form an essential 
component of the delivery of the Group’s 
strategy. You will find a description of 
Unilever’s corporate governance 
structures and procedures, along with 
an explanation of the work of the Boards, 
beginning on page 36. Together these 
should give you a sense of how Unilever 
seeks to achieve these aspirations.
2011 was another busy year for the 
Boards, with a number of key initiatives 
undertaken.
Board evaluation
Following our internal evaluation of the 
Boards’ activities and effectiveness in 
2010, we appointed an external 
consultancy in 2011 to carry out the 
evaluation. Their report was presented 
to the Boards in December and 
concluded that overall the Boards were 
operating effectively. The report made a 
number of valuable recommendations 
and, as a result, Board meetings will 
now build knowledge-sharing sessions 
into the agenda where Directors can 
discuss experiences on specific topics  
of relevance to Unilever.
Understanding the business
During 2011 the Directors went out into 
the business and visited operations in 
Jakarta, Indonesia, and Rome, Italy. In 
both locations the Directors visited local 
markets and consumers in their homes. 
Rome is particularly important as the 
global centre for Unilever’s ice cream 
business. Visits such as these give 
Non-Executive Directors the opportunity 
to meet senior managers across 
Unilever and help them to gain a deeper 
understanding of the Group.
Diversity
At Unilever we have long understood the 
importance of diversity within our 
workforce because of the wide range of 
consumers we connect with globally. 
This goes right through our organisation, 
starting with the Boards.
The subject of gender diversity at Board 
level is receiving considerable attention 
within the EU. In nominating directors, 
Unilever considers diversity in terms of 
nationality, race, gender and relevant 
expertise and directs that, wherever 
possible, the Boards should reflect 
Unilever’s consumer base.
I am pleased that already 25% of 
Directors on our Boards are women, and 
we will continue in our aim to increase 
that percentage. However, Unilever feels 
that gender is only one part of diversity, 
and Unilever Directors will continue to 
be selected on the basis of their 
wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, 
skills, knowledge and insight.
Changes to the Boards
Jeroen van der Veer retired as a 
Non-Executive Director at the end of the 
2011 AGMs in May and, on behalf of the 
Boards, I would like to thank him for his 
valued contributions as Vice-Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director, and as 
Chairman of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
At the same AGMs Sunil B Mittal was 
elected as a Non-Executive Director 
bringing experience in developing 
markets that will further strengthen  
the expertise and independence of the 
Boards as well as broadening their 
diversity.
It remains for me to thank our 171,000 
employees across the world for their 
hard work in delivering good results in 
such a challenging environment.
Michael Treschow
Chairman
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
2
CHAIRMAN'S  
STATEMENT
1 The Unilever Group  
Unilever N.V. (NV) is a public limited company registered in the Netherlands. It has listings of shares and depositary 
receipts for shares on Euronext Amsterdam and on the New York Stock Exchange. Unilever PLC (PLC) is a public limited 
company registered in England and Wales. It has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American 
Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group companies, operate as a single economic entity (the 
Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group). NV and PLC and their group companies, regardless of legal 
ownership, constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements. 
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated 
financial statements. The same people sit on the Boards of the two parent companies and other officers are officers of 
both companies. Any references to the Board in this document mean the Boards of NV and PLC.
1  Michael Treschow 
Chairman
2  Kees Storm 
Vice-Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director
3  Paul Polman 
Chief Executive Officer
4  Jean-Marc Huët 
Chief Financial Officer
5  Louise Fresco 
Non-Executive Director
6  Ann Fudge 
Non-Executive Director
7  Charles Golden 
Non-Executive Director
8  Byron Grote 
Non-Executive Director
9  Sunil B Mittal 
Non-Executive Director
10  Hixonia Nyasulu 
Non-Executive Director
11  Sir Malcolm Rifkind 
Non-Executive Director
12  Paul Walsh 
Non-Executive Director
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
3
5 7
9
11
2 3 4
6
8 10
12
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
For Directors’ biographies,  
please go to page 34.
