 Financial
 3.5 %
underlying sales growth
•  Underlying volume growth of 2.3% accelerating  
through the year
• Turnover of €39.8 billion
• Underlying operating margin
† 
up from 14.6% to 14.8%
• Cash flow from operating activities up by €1.4 billion
• Total shareholder return ranking up from 9th to 5th
•  Earnings per share of €1.21
•  First quarterly dividend of €0.195 payable March 2010
•  Selective acquisitions including TIGI and Baltimor
Report of the Directors  Overview
p16
In 2009 we made good progress in challenging market conditions. Volumes 
picked up and market shares improved through the year. Our solid financial 
performance along with bigger innovations, better execution and a move to  
a stronger performance culture give us a firm foundation for the future.
Operational highlights
Key facts
Leading global positions in 7 categories
Products sold in more than 170 countries
€891m spent on R&D worldwide
163,000 employees at the end of 2009
20 nationalities among our top tier managers
€89m invested in community  
programmes worldwide
Case study: TIGI
The cutting edge
The purchase of professional hair products business TIGI 
marked a return to strategic acquisitions, further strengthening 
our brand portfolio.
The TIGI range, including  
Catwalk, S-Factor and Bed  
Head, is a premium salon  
range that complements  
our existing daily hair care  
products. Its strength in  
styling and its fashion and  
beauty expertise will also  
help fuel innovation for  
our existing hair brands.
The Unilever Group
Unilever is one of the world’s leading suppliers of fast moving
consumer goods. We aim to meet everyday consumer needs for 
nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands and services  
that help people to feel good, look good and get more out  
of life. Unilever is a global business which by the end of the year 
was generating more than half of its turnover in developing and 
emerging markets in Asia, Africa, Central & Eastern Europe  
and Latin America.
Unilever N.V. (NV) is a public limited company registered in the 
Netherlands. It has listings of shares and depositary receipts for 
shares on Euronext Amsterdam and of New York Registry Shares 
on the New York Stock Exchange. Unilever PLC (PLC) is a public 
limited company registered in England and Wales. It has  
shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American 
Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their 
group companies, operate as a single economic entity (the 
Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group). NV  
and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting 
entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts. 
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented  
by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
†  Underlying operating margin  
is operating margin excluding  
the impact of RDIs (restructuring, 
business disposals and other 
one-off items, see page 46).
2 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Social
 2 billion
consumers worldwide use a Unilever product on  
any day
•  133 million people reached by Lifebuoy handwashing 
programmes since 2002
•  15 million people in 3 million households in India provided 
with safe drinking water through Pureit
•  44% of our products in line with internationally accepted 
guidelines for saturated and trans fat, sugar and salt
•  Nearly 17 million school meals delivered to 80,000  
children in 2009 through our partnership with the World 
Food Programme
•  45,000 women entrepreneurs reach 3 million consumers  
in 100,000 Indian villages with Unilever products
•  9%* reduction in total recordable accident frequency  
rate in 2009 
Environmental
 1 85,000
tonnes of palm oil sourced sustainably via  
GreenPalm certificates
•  Around 15% of our tea sourced from Rainforest Alliance 
Certified™ farms globally
•  Around 430,000 climate-friendly (HFC -free) ice cream 
freezer cabinets purchased since 2004
•  41%* reduction in CO
2
 from energy per tonne of  
production over the period 1995-2009
•  65%* reduction in water per tonne of production  
over the period 1995-2009
•  73%* reduction in total waste per tonne of production  
over the period 1995-2009
•  11 years as sector leader of the Dow Jones  
Sustainability Indexes 
p18 p20
Case study: Foodsolutions
Salt reductions
Unilever in the UK is supporting government efforts to reduce 
levels of salt in food consumed both in and out of the home.
Our brand reformulation programme means that within retail 
and the catering sector through Unilever’s Foodsolutions 
business, approximately 80% of our products meet the Food 
Standards Agency 2010 salt reduction targets. For example,  
in Unilever Foodsolutions  
UK we have reduced  
salt levels in Knorr  
soups by 25% and  
in sauces by 27%.
Case study: Comfort
Water ways
It is a challenge to develop ways  
to maintain business growth  
in the laundry category while  
reducing the impact of water use. 
More water is used in the rinsing than in the  
cleaning process. To tackle this, our Comfort  
One Rinse fabric conditioner has been formulated  
so that much less water is required per wash  
to rinse the detergent from clothes. It has been 
launched in Vietnam, Indonesia and Brazil, and  
is expected to be rolled out to more countries  
during 2010.
*  2009 data is preliminary. It will be independently assured 
and reported in our online Sustainable Development Report 
2009 at www.unilever.com/sustainability
