 2011 has been another year of real progress in delivering  
our Compass strategy. We made significant progress in the 
transformation of Unilever to a sustainable growth company 
despite difficult markets.
2010. This is a good performance, not 
least given that we also continued to 
invest for long-term success – adding,  
for example, an extra €150 million in 
advertising and promotional spend.
We maintained our record for efficiency 
gains, reducing overheads and delivering 
€1.5 billion in savings. We also re-affirmed 
our reputation for financial discipline, with 
strong free cash flow of €3.1 billion.
Last year’s performance should also be 
seen in the context of geopolitical 
disturbances and natural disasters. The 
uprisings in North Africa and the Middle 
East, together with earthquakes in New 
Zealand and Japan and floods in Thailand, 
were among events that had a major 
impact on our operations. Our first 
concern during these incidents is for the 
welfare of our people and for their 
families, and thankfully we suffered no 
loss of life or serious injury. 
How a company responds to these events 
says a lot about its values and we are 
proud that Unilever employees – working 
alongside partners such as the World 
Food Programme – were among the first 
to offer assistance to those caught up in 
these tragedies. In Thailand, for example, 
Unilever teams worked tirelessly to  
help get our customers – many of whose 
stores and warehouses were flooded – 
back in business.
One of the most pleasing aspects of the 
performance in 2011 was that we 
delivered strong results while continuing 
to make necessary long-term changes. 
Our vision is to double the size of the 
business while reducing our 
environmental impact. This requires us to 
operate very differently. At the heart of our 
new business model is the Unilever 
Sustainable Living Plan (USLP), which 
touches all aspects of our business: from 
the way we source our materials, develop 
our brands and make our products, to the 
way they are used and disposed of by our 
consumers. Its basic premise is that in a 
2011 was another turbulent year for the 
world economy, reflected in the instability 
of the Eurozone and sluggish consumer 
demand in North America. Growth in the 
emerging countries remained robust, 
although even here we saw some 
softening. It was also in these markets  
that we experienced our most intense 
competitor activity.
The uncertainty underpinning global 
markets gave rise to strong inflationary 
pressures and a sharp increase in 
commodity costs, stifling growth and 
significantly impacting costs. With 
unemployment rising and real incomes 
falling, there is no doubt that consumers 
are suffering.
Despite these conditions, 2011 was a 
strong year for Unilever. Underlying sales 
growth of 6.5% was ahead of our markets 
and continued the trend of improving top 
line performance. Growth was price and 
volume driven, reflecting the strength of 
our brands and their ability to compete in 
the most difficult conditions. Recent 
acquisition and disposal activity added a 
further 1.2% to turnover. 
Growth was broad-based, although 
fuelled by an outstanding performance in 
the emerging markets – a strategic focus 
for the business. Driven by markets like 
India, China, Turkey and South Africa –  
all of which grew by double digits – our 
emerging markets business grew by 
11.5% and now accounts for 54% of 
Unilever’s turnover. 
In the developed world, growth was more 
subdued, at 0.8%, although even here we 
saw some strong performances. Our 
biggest developed markets – the United 
States, Germany, the UK and France – 
which represent 61% of our developed 
world business, grew between 1% and 4%. 
The sharp rise in commodity prices 
meant we had to absorb an additional 
€2.4 billion of costs. Despite this, our 
operating profit was broadly in line with 
resource constrained world, it is possible 
and necessary to decouple growth from 
environmental impact. 
The USLP represents a long-term goal 
but progress during the first year was 
encouraging, not least our commitment to 
source agricultural raw materials from 
sustainable supplies. By the end of 2011, 
for example, almost two thirds of the 
palm oil used in our products was being 
purchased from certified sources. 
Our leadership in this area has caught the 
imagination of employees and customers 
alike. It has won Unilever widespread 
external recognition. Last year, the 
company was named winner of the 6th 
International Green Awards – just one  
of a number of high profile sustainability 
awards received in 2011.
Our business model is designed to provide 
long-term sustainable growth. This relies 
on delivering our corporate strategy, and 
in particular building our brands and 
providing bigger and better innovations. 
Again, we are making progress. The 
proportion of turnover coming from 
products launched in the past two years 
continues to be above 30%. Sales of Dove 
exceeded €3 billion in 2011 driven by 
innovations like Men+Care. And the use of 
advanced technology enabled our Knorr 
jelly platform to grow by 60% last year.
Our strategy relies equally on rolling out 
innovations faster and to more markets. 
The launch of Axe Excite to 100 markets  
in just over a year is typical of the speed  
and breadth we are able to achieve. 
We are also introducing brands into many 
more markets. Magnum, for example, has 
enjoyed remarkable success since being 
launched in North America and Indonesia. 
We have also introduced Dove in China 
and Clear shampoo in South Africa. Our 
Comfort and Surf fabric conditioner 
brands have performed strongly since 
being introduced in Australasia, South 
Africa and the Philippines.
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
1
∆ 1  Paul Polman
∆ Chief Executive Officer
2  Doug Baillie  
Chief Human Resources Officer
6  Alan Jope  
North Asia
10  Antoine de Saint-Affrique  
Foods
3  Professor Geneviève Berger  
Chief Research & Development Officer
7  Kees Kruythoff  
North America
11  Pier Luigi Sigismondi  
Chief Supply Chain Officer
4  Kevin Havelock  
Refreshment 
8  Dave Lewis  
Personal Care
12  Keith Weed  
Chief Marketing and  
Communication Officer
5  Jean-Marc Huët
∆ Chief Financial Officer
9  Harish Manwani  
Chief Operating Officer
13  Jan Zijderveld  
Europe
At the same time we are strengthening 
our portfolio. Following the integration  
of the Sara Lee personal care business 
and Alberto Culver, we are now acquiring 
the Russian personal care company, 
Concern Kalina, increasing our ability to 
compete in the personal care market. 
Alberto Culver was Unilever’s biggest 
acquisition in ten years and we have 
moved quickly to capitalise on these new 
assets. Within nine months, we had 
introduced TRESemmé into Brazil, Simple 
into the United States and Motions into 
South Africa – great brands and fantastic 
examples of speed in action. 
We are also changing the organisation. 
Today we are more agile, more consumer 
responsive and better able to leverage 
global scale. We see the emergence of  
a culture rooted in strong values but with 
a sharper performance edge – vital if we 
are to succeed in today’s markets. 
To support the transformation, we also 
continue to invest heavily in our people 
and their development. Last year, for 
example, we were proud to break ground 
on a new state-of-the-art training facility 
in Singapore. This 5.6 hectare site will act 
as a leading development centre for our 
emerging markets business.
So we look back on a year of progress, 
measured both by strong results and 
changes to the business. Unilever is 
moving from a company fit to compete  
to one that is fit to win. Shareholders are 
benefiting from the changes: last year, 
Unilever’s share price rose 14% on the 
AEX, making it the market’s best 
performing stock in 2011.
2012 will be a tough year. But we are well 
prepared, and – thanks to the dedication  
of our 171,000 wonderful employees – we  
are confident that we can continue to 
outperform our markets and deliver 
sustainable growth and long-term value  
to all stakeholders.
5 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Report of the Directors About Unilever
5
4
8
3
6
10 12
2 5
∆ 9 7
11 13
∆ Board member
UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE (ULE)
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer
For ULE biographies, please go to page 35.
