 6  Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
3 2 1
During  the  year  we  also  launched  an  audacious  plan  to  meet  our  energising  vision  of  doubling  the  size  of  the  company  while  reducing  the  overall  impact  on  the  environment.  In  an  increasingly  resource-
constrained  world,  this  decoupling  of  growth  from  the  impact  on the  planet  is  the growth  model  that consumers  will  ultimately  demand.
In  addition  to  halving  our  overall  environmental  impact,  the  Unilever  Sustainable  Living  Plan  (the  Plan)  commits  us  to helping  more  than  a  billion  people  to  improve  their  health  and  well-being  and  to  sourcing  100%  of  our  agriculturally-based  materials  sustainably.  We  will  achieve  this  across  the  whole  value  chain,  with  specific,  time-bound  commitments  and  with  the  active  participation  of  many  partners.
These  are  not  acts  of  charity  or  a  tick  in the  box  for  corporate  responsibility.  The Plan  makes  sound  business  sense.  As an  integral  part  of  our  business  model,  it  will  enable  us  to  accelerate  innovation,  ensure  security  of  resources,  reduce  overall  costs  and  build  sustainability  into our  brand  propositions,  ultimately  winning  consumer preference  and  loyalty well  into the  future.
Meeting  our  growth  ambition  also  requires  us to  stick  to  our  strategy.  This  is  set  out  in  ‘the  Compass’,  which  is  based  on  winning  in  four  key  areas.
Winning with brands and innovation
Brands  and  innovation  are  the  lifeblood  of  our  business,  which  is  why  strengthening  brand  equities  and  building  a  pipeline  of bigger  and  better  innovations,  rolled  Slow  economic  growth  in  2010,  food  price  volatility  and  geopolitical  instability  remind  us  that  we  live  in  challenging  times.  We  expect  economic  recovery  to be  protracted  and  uneven.  All  except  emerging  markets  remain  sluggish  and  consumer  spending  continues  to  be  held  back  by  high  levels  of  personal  debt  and  fear  of  continuing  unemployment.
Despite  this  backdrop,  we  achieved  volume  growth  of  5.8%  in  2010,  significantly  higher  than  growth  in  the  previous  year and  Unilever’s  best  volume  growth  performance  for  more  than  30  years.  Growth  was  both  competitive  –  we gained  market  share  in  many  of  our  leading  categories  –  and  profitable,  with  a steady  improvement  in  underlying  operating  margin.  The  emerging  markets  –  now  53%  of  our  total  business  –  continue  to  be  our  growth  engine.  We  are  also  encouraged  that  our  Western  European  business  returned  to  volume  growth  in  2010.
In  this  environment,  as  well  as  improving efficiencies,  we  continue  to  take  a  long-term  view  of  our  business  by investing  in  our  people  and  our  brands, strengthening  our  portfolio  and building  innovation  and  R&D capabilities.
We  expanded  our  underlying  operating  margins  again,  by  20bps,  and  generated  strong  free  cash  flow  at  €3.4  billion.  We delivered  savings  of  €1.4 billion  and  maintained  negative  working  capital  at  close to  best-in-class  levels.  These  were  significant  achievements.
2010  was  a  very  positive  year  for  Unilever,  both  in  terms  of results  and  also  in  our  continuing  transformation  to  a  business  that  delivers  consistent  top  and  bottom  line growth.
Chief  Executive  Officer’s review
Paul  Polman  –  Chief  Executive  Officer  (pictured  above)
1.   Doug  Baillie  –  Chief  Human  Resources  Officer  2.      Professor  Geneviève  Berger  –  Chief  Research  & Development  Officer
3.   Jean-Marc  Huët  –  Chief  Financial  Officer
4.   Dave  Lewis  –  President  Americas
5.   Harish  Manwani  –  President  Asia  Africa  CEE
6.   Michael  Polk  –  President  Global  Foods,    Home & Personal  Care
7.   Pier  Luigi  Sigismondi  –  Chief  Supply  Chain  Officer
8.   Keith  Weed  –  Chief  Marketing  and  Communication Officer
9.  Jan   Zijderveld  –  President  Western  Europe
For UEx biographies please go to page 40
Unilever Executive (UEx) Unilever  Annual  Report  and  Accounts  2010 7
Report of the Directors About  Unilever
5
8
4
7
6
9
out  faster  to  more  countries,  is  at  the  heart  of  our  strategy.  In  2010  we  made  good  progress.  Innovations  launched  in over  ten  countries  increased  more  than  fourfold,  to  40.  Innovations  like Dove  Men+Care,  Clear  anti-dandruff  shampoo  and  Magnum  Gold?!  rolled  out  to  around  30 countries.  We  also  extended  our  brands  into  new  markets,  with  more  than 100  new  launches  in  the  year.  The  percentage  of  turnover  from  innovation  increased  and is  now  a  third  of  company  revenues.  We  rely  on  many  outside  partners  for  innovation  and  are  increasingly  seen  as  a desired  partner for  our  strong  growth  in emerging  markets.
Winning in the market place
The  way  we  deploy  our  brands  and  innovations  in  the  market  is  key  to  their  success  and  again  we  made  great  strides  in 2010.  We  accelerated  joint  business  planning  with  key  customers,  improved  customer  service  in  every  region  and continued  to  develop  a network  of leading-edge  Customer  Insight  and  Innovation  Centres  (CiiCs),  which  are  well received  by  our  retail  partners.  We  expanded  our  footprint  in  general  trade  and  modern  trade  and  significantly  improved  our  in-store  execution  in  emerging  markets.  Both  Walmart  and  Tesco  recognised  us as their  Global  Supplier  of the  Year  –  a measure  of how  far  we  have  come.
Winning through 
continuous improvement
Small  improvements  every  day,  the  length  and  breadth  of  our  supply  chain,  are  enabling  us  to  increase  speed,  raise  quality  and  leverage  scale.  The  move  to  a global  supply  chain  organisation  has  improved  responsiveness  and  brought  costs  more  into  line  with  competitive  levels.  The  successful  launch  last  year  of  our  global  shared  services  organisation,  Enterprise  Support,  is  also  helping  us  to  drive  cost  and  other  efficiencies  through  the  whole  organisation.  These  elements  of  our  programme  of  continuous  improvement  are  generating  the  fuel  for growth.  Winning with people
Winning  in  today’s  competitive  markets  requires  the  best  people,  motivated  to  succeed  and  equipped  with  the  right  capabilities  and  the  best  training.  This  is our  focus  as  we  look to  build  an  organisation  capable  of  meeting  the  company’s  ambitious  vision.  We  made  significant  progress  in  2010.  Employee  engagement  reached  its  highest  level;  a new  compensation  scheme  brought  a sharper  focus  on  performance  and  the  long  term;  and  100 of  our  most  senior  managers  went  through  a  tailored  leadership  development  programme,  which  is  now being  rolled  out  to  the  next 500  managers.
We  achieved  progress  against  the  Compass  objectives,  while  we  embarked  on  our  most  active  acquisition  and  disposals  programme  for  many  years.  This included  the  purchase  of Sara  Lee’s  Personal  Care  brands,  such  as  Radox  and  Duschdas,  and  the  announced  acquisition  of  Alberto  Culver.  We  also  disposed  of  businesses  with a combined  turnover  of more than  €600 million,  notably  the  frozen foods  business  in  Italy.
These  developments  have  left  us  with  a sharper  portfolio  and  an  even  stronger  presence  in  faster  growing  categories.  Combined  with  our  highly  competitive  geographical  footprint  in  emerging  markets,  we  are  increasingly  well placed  to  win  consistently  in  the  areas  of fastest  growth.
Conclusion
Progress  in  2010  was  significant,  but  2011  will be  a  challenging  year  and  we need  to  quicken  the  pace  of  transformation  if  we  are to  stay  ahead.  I have  every  confidence  in the  167,000  wonderful  men  and  women  of Unilever.  They  achieved  some  of  the  best  results  in the  company’s  recent  history  while  staying  true  to  the  values  that  make  Unilever  such  a  special  organisation.  It  is  a tribute  to  them  that  2010  ended  with  Unilever  being  named  Most  Admired  Company  of  the  Year  in  a  poll  of  industry peers.  Well  deserved  praise  indeed,  but also  a  recognition  that  expectations  have  been  raised.  We need  therefore  to  set  the  bar  higher  in passionately  serving  our  consumers  across the  world.
Paul  Polman
Chief  Executive  Officer
