 02 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that in the year ended 
March 2009 AVEVA again achieved strong 
growth in revenue, profit and cash, despite 
increasing turbulence in many of the Group’s 
end markets. 
Key financials
Revenue increased in the year by 29% 
to £164.0 million (2008 – £127.6 million). 
Key contributors to this were the levels 
of growth achieved in our Asia Pacific and 
Central, Eastern and Southern European 
regions (CES) where revenue increased 32% 
and 40% respectively. The mix of revenue 
remained broadly in line with those seen in 
previous years with recurring fees amounting 
to 57% of total revenue at £94.2 million 
(2008 – £66.1 million) and initial 
fees amounting to £57.7 million 
(2008 – £52.9 million). 
Increased revenue combined with strong 
margins delivered an adjusted profit before 
tax, amortisation, share-based payments and 
goodwill adjustment of £62.6 million, which 
is an increase of 31% (2008 – £47.9 million). 
Adjusted earnings per share amounted to 
67.33 pence (2008 – 55.22 pence) an increase 
of 22%. Profit before tax increased by 32% 
to £59.2 million (2008 – £45.0 million). 
Basic earnings per share was 62.27 pence 
(2008 – 50.80 pence).
In the first six months of the financial year 
the Company continued to increase investment 
in both its products and sales organisation, 
although in the second half the levels of 
investment slowed. The year as a whole 
saw increased investment in Research 
and Development of 28% to £27.3 million 
(2008 – £21.3 million). The Group’s expansion 
of its existing regional offices in Mexico and 
Russia and the opening of a new office in 
Brazil increased the Group’s global footprint 
in regions that offer significant opportunities 
and contributed to an increase in selling and 
distribution costs of 36% to £53.2 million 
(2008 – £39 million). 
The Group’s balance sheet strengthened 
considerably in the period as the Group’s 
cash increased by 52%, and amounted 
to £126.2 million (2008 – £82.8 million) 
at the year end.
Dividend
Continued growth in profit and a strong 
cash position lead the Board to recommend 
a final dividend of 6.5 pence (2008 – 5.0 pence). 
Combined with the interim dividend of 
2.86 pence (2008 – 1.65 pence) this 
gives a full year dividend of 9.36 pence 
(2008 – 6.65 pence), an increase of 41%.
Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 
31 July 2009 to shareholders on the register 
on 26 June 2009.
People
On behalf of the Board I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank all of our staff for 
their important contribution over the last 
twelve months. As all are aware, the market 
turbulence has made it necessary for the 
Board to review the structure of the Company. 
Inevitably, this has led to some very difficult 
decisions being made and a restructuring 
programme has been put in place in 
April 2009. The restructured skills base 
and annualised cost savings of approximately 
£5.0 million mean that AVEVA is now better 
equipped to trade through these challenging 
times. Despite the potentially unsettling 
nature of this programme, the hard work, 
support and efforts of all our staff has 
remained first class. 
buildiNg oN our
Revenue increased by 29% 
to £164 million.
Adjusted profit before tax increased 
by 31% to £62.6 million.
R&D investment increased by 28%.
Full year dividend increased by 41%.
Footprint expanded in growth economies.
SummARy oF chAIRmAN’S S tAtemeNt financial statements corporate governance business review 
03 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
strategy Sustained and considerable investment made over the past few years 
in developing our product range and expanding our geographical 
presence will ensure AVEVA maintains its position as a world leader.
During the year Lennart Olsson, Head of 
Global Sales, retired. Lennart joined AVEVA 
as part of the acquisition of Tribon in 2004. 
Under his guidance, AVEVA’s sales organisation 
has achieved outstanding results. On behalf 
of the Board and Company I wish Lennart a long 
and happy retirement.
Following the retirement of Lennart we were 
pleased to appoint Derek Middlemas as Group 
Operations Director, overseeing all sales and 
business development activities. Derek joined 
AVEVA in 2000 and brought with him a wealth 
of engineering experience. Over recent years 
Derek led our Business Strategy group, helping 
to align the ambitions of the Company with 
the requirements of the market. I have no 
doubt that Derek’s industry knowledge and 
forward thinking approach will contribute 
greatly to our future success.
outlook
The sustained and considerable investment 
made by the Group over the past few years in 
developing our product range and expanding 
our geographical presence will ensure AVEVA 
maintains its position as a world leader in the 
markets in which it operates. 
As the current global economic slowdown 
continues and the oil price and shipping 
rates sit at lower levels than in recent years, 
some projects are now being postponed 
or cancelled, awaiting project funding or 
visibility of more certain times. Against this 
backdrop, AVEVA’s customer relations and 
‘best in class’ products will remain ever 
more important and will help to maintain 
levels of recurring revenue and exploit 
new opportunities. 
The restructuring programme already 
initiated means that AVEVA is better 
equipped to successfully trade through 
the difficult trading environment whilst 
allowing the Company to invest selectively 
in already identified important growth 
opportunities, for example with regard to 
AVEVA NET and in South America and the CIS. 
Nick Prest
Chairman
26 May 2009 04 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
AVEVA NET is a powerful information management 
solution, capable of handling all types of digital 
information – not just engineering data – to create 
a complete digital model of a plant or ship. It enables 
the full exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully 
cross-referenced project and operational information. 
For further information visit:
http://www.aveva.com/avevanet
the challenge
China’s Shanxi Electric Power Exploration & Design Institute needed to 
find a way to import, manage and access data on the Linfen Thermal Power 
Project project. This project had generated vast amounts of disparate data 
(3D designs, drawings, manufacturers’ data, correspondence, and so on) 
created using many different software applications, with no method of 
associating and validating the project information. The Institute was also 
seeking a platform for project collaboration and mark-up to share documents 
and drawings around the globally dispersed project organisations.
the solution
The Institute turned to AVEVA NET, to provide an information management hub 
for visualisation; the import of data and documents from multiple information 
sources and access to it through a unified, web-based interface. This involved 
a real mix of applications – specialist document management systems, 
file convertors, an XML layer for Chinese character support, and so on. 
However, using AVEVA NET, even such complex data could be imported 
automatically, enabling staff to focus on customising other aspects 
of AVEVA NET to meet their precise needs.
the outcome
AVEVA NET provided the entire project team with a single, up-to-date source 
for every type of information relating to the project. It also enabled them 
to create intelligent associations between data, so that the system can, 
for example, highlight when information is missing or incomplete. 
A similar project at the Jin Xin substation is now well advanced and has 
clearly demonstrated AVEVA NET’s ability to greatly improve efficiency. financial statements corporate governance business review 
05 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
Directors’ report
buildiNg oN our
teChnology AVEVA NET is the core of AVEVA’s Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) 
solutions. It is a vital component in successfully managing the information 
needs of both Plant and Marine industry projects, from conception right 
through to the demands of ongoing asset information management. 
Key facts
•	 	 A VEV A	NET	deliv er s	com pe titiv e	
advantage in both the creation and 
operation of ships and plants, with 
potential application in any industry 
requiring the management of huge 
volumes of disparate information.
•	 	 An	intuitiv e,	w eb‑br o w ser	int er f ace	
enables easy accessibility, sharing 
and collaborative use of information 
across globally dispersed enterprises.
•	 	 Ther e	is	no	limit	t o	t he	scale	of	an	
AVEVA NET deployment. On some of 
the world’s largest operating plants, 
over 6,000 information accesses per 
day is not unusual.
•	 	 A VEV A	NET’ s	ability	t o	im por t,	contr ol	
and manage existing data, such as 
laser scanned surveys, operations 
and maintenance systems, brings 
its key benefits to operators of 
established assets.
INFo Box 
iN vestme Nt i N rese Arch 
ANd developmeNt (£m)
£27.3m
+28%
05
10.4
06
13.9
07
17.6
08
21.3
09
27.3
