 10 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
Chief exeCutive’s review
 
overview
AVEVA is a global leader in the provision 
of engineering IT software and services. 
2008/09 proved to be another record year 
with strong growth in sales, profit and cash 
generation. Headquartered in Cambridge and 
with 35 offices around the world, we continue 
to offer localised sales and customer service 
enabling us to ensure that our products and 
services match the evolving demands of 
our customers. 
AVEVA delivers world class technologies 
which support the design and through life 
operation of complex engineering projects 
mainly in the Oil & Gas, Power, Marine, Paper 
and Pulp, Chemical and Mining industries. 
These demanding global industries depend 
on mission critical products such as AVEVA’s 
to provide an integrated engineering software 
platform embracing conceptual design 
and specification, detailed engineering, 
procurement, materials management 
and project control. AVEVA’s software 
and unrivalled industrial expertise 
provide complete data integrity. 
AVEVA’s strategy is to remain a world class 
provider of technologies and services in its 
core markets, attract new customers and 
maintain and grow its existing customer 
base through new enhanced technologies. 
Its policy of providing continual progression 
to its customers through ongoing development 
of established products has resulted in some 
major upgrades to products during the year, 
further enhancing customers’ ability to integrate 
a variety of complex applications and data 
sources through platform technology. 
Close, long standing, strategic customer 
partnerships are at the heart of AVEVA’s 
success. This gives us an unrivalled insight 
into the evolving demands of our customers 
across all of our market verticals. As a result, 
we are able to ensure that we are aligned to 
capitalise on all development opportunities 
in more turbulent times. 
Global performance
Each year the AVEVA customer base 
becomes more geographically diverse 
and our continued investment in direct sales 
means we are progressively better positioned 
to understand and serve the complex global 
networked customer base. 
Increasingly, customers demand the ability 
to work on projects with multiple international 
partners and the unique ‘global’ capability 
within the AVEVA database has enabled 
customers to work very efficiently in a 
virtual global network. 
Asia Pacific – Revenue £67 .1 million 
(2008 – £50.8 million)
Following a very successful 2007/08, the Asia 
Pacific business had a very strong business 
in Marine to complement the growing Power 
and Oil & Gas business in the region.
Marine business was strong in the first half 
and although orders for new standard ships 
have declined significantly in the second half 
year, most customers have long order books 
and AVEVA continued to receive business for 
Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC’s) and deep 
water offshore platforms. These projects tend 
to be very complex, thus driving wider use of 
AVEVA products. Our successes in Marine and 
Plant industries and AVEVA NET in this region 
have positioned the Company very well 
against our competition in this more 
difficult trading environment.
The partnership with Hyundai Heavy Industries 
has been very successful and has led to the 
new generation of Marine design tools being 
delivered during the year. These are already 
in use in many of the world’s largest shipyards. 
buildiNg oN our
In the Asia Pacific region our successes 
have positioned the Company very well 
against our competition.
Latin America revenue grew 
significantly following the opening 
of our offices in Mexico and Brazil.
continued growth in the CES 
region, in particularly with 
power related projects.
merger of WemeA and ceS to form a 
more efficient organisation to serve 
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA).
SummAR y oF c hIeF executIve’S RevIeW
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
11 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
 
buildiNg oN our
relationships
Close, long standing, strategic customer partnerships…give us unrivalled 
insight into the evolving demands of our customers. As a result, we are 
aligned to capitalise on all opportunities in more turbulent times.
We expect to see further take up of the new 
system in yards during 2009/10 financial 
year, as AVEVA Marine continues to deliver 
clear productivity benefits to customers.
Korea has become a significant region not just 
as a revenue generator , but also as a development 
centre for new products. The AVEVA Marine 
Technology Centre based in Busan has 
increased its capacity to develop both 
products and customer specific 
enhancements, as well as helping 
with localisation. We are very grateful 
to the Busan Metropolitan Government 
for their ongoing support in the region.
The contacts and reputation the Asia Pacific 
team have built across the region over recent 
years also enabled the Company to complete 
the acquisition of a small, but very highly 
regarded, organisation with a product for 
creating and maintaining instrumentation 
data. This product has already been 
integrated into the AVEVA suite and is 
being sold across all industries globally.
Americas – Revenue £24.4 million 
(2008 – £17 .8 million)
Performance across the Americas region 
was mixed with difficult trading conditions 
in North America and Canada but strong 
growth in Latin America.
The region has a growing Power 
related business, and our relationships 
with customers in other geographies are 
helping us to exploit opportunities locally. 
Oil related customers are the mainstay of the 
US business, in particular deep water oil field 
production where we have successfully increased 
the penetration of AVEVA NET with the oil majors. 
The expertise developed by many of AVEVA’s 
large multinational engineering companies 
has meant that the business is less susceptible 
to a sharp drop in commodity prices, as 
the deep water fields remain a long-term 
proposition with very long build cycles and 
significant capital expenditure commitments. 
AVEVA has very little Marine business in 
North America. Towards the end of the year 
some confidence returned to our smaller 
markets of Mining, Metals and Paper and Pulp. 
Projects in Canada have been hit by the oil 
price as exploitation of the tar sands oil fields 
is becoming marginal with prices between 
$40 and $50 per barrel. Due to the strength 
of our competitors in the Calgary market 
in the traditional CAD products, we have 
successfully focused on selling the AVEVA NET 
solution in Canada and will continue with this 
strategy this year.
Latin America revenue grew significantly 
following the successful opening of our office 
in Mexico. At the start of the year we replaced 
our agent in Brazil with a direct sales and service 
office based in Rio de Janeiro. The business in 
Latin America has been building steadily and 
is expected to deliver significant growth in 
future years. Brazil is the dominant economy 
in the Latin American region and is seen as 
strategically important, even more so with 
the deep water oil field activity driven by 
Petrobras, which is an AVEVA foundation 
customer. We will continue to invest in 
growing the Brazilian organisation during 
the coming year and have already been 
successfully hiring new engineers and 
sales people. 
CES – Revenue £45.8 million 
(2008 – £32.7 million)
The Central, Eastern and Southern European 
region is a complex geographic mix of markets 
with differing sales and service offerings.
We have seen continued growth in the CES 
region, in particular with oil related projects. 
The largest constituent of the CES region 
is Deutschland (Germany), Austria and 
Switzerland (DACH), which has continued to 
win business from our competitors as well as 
developing existing customer relationships. 
The Southern region, headquartered in 
Paris, operates across a wide area but has 
a predominance of customers in the Power 
business. The growing enthusiasm for nuclear 
power is a key expansion driver in the region. 
Many countries are now planning or considering 
nuclear power as a key part of their energy 
mix. AVEVA customers such as AREVA and 
EDF, along with the very long relationships 
we have enjoyed with fossil fuelled Power 
providers such as Alstom, will help drive 
growth in this region. 
For some years now AVEVA has enjoyed a solid 
relationship with a number of outsourced 
development organisations in the region. 
These relationships have been enhanced 
during the year to provide assistance for 
localised application development, as well 
as core product development managed by 
the central Products Group. These outsource 
centres provide a very flexible cost effective 
extension to our skills pool.
WEMEA – Revenue £26.8 million 
(2008 – £26.3million)
Western Europe, Middle East and Africa is 
the most mature of AVEVA’s markets and has 
traditionally been heavily biased towards the 
oil & gas industry, with a dominant position in 
the North Sea offshore market.
With falling commodity prices and the difficulty 
in raising investment funding for new projects, 
some projects have been slowing down or 
postponed, primarily in the second half of the 
financial year. We have concentrated more 
effort during the year on the opportunities 
which exist in providing technology solutions 
managing data in brownfield, or existing plants. 
In the mature North Sea offshore sector we have 
made strategically important sales into the oil 
majors with our AVEVA NET solution and have 
Directors’ report 12 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
Chief exeCutive’s review coNtiNued
Global performance continued
WEMEA – Revenue £26.8 million 
(2008 – £26.3million) continued
structured the organisation to better exploit 
the opportunities during the coming year. 
AVEVA enjoys particularly strong relationships 
with its customers in the WEMEA region. 
This supports our technical strategy 
and development programmes for both 
enhancement of existing applications 
and Research and Development activity 
in bringing new ideas to market. 
In order to capitalise on global project 
execution, AVEVA has invested to broaden 
further its own network of offices able to sell 
to and support customers locally. At the same 
time, towards the end of the financial year 
we merged two major regional organisations, 
being WEMEA and CES, to make cost efficiencies 
and a more effective organisation to serve 
the Europe, Middle East and African region 
(EMEA). For the year to the end of March 2009 
we had four reporting regions and this has been 
rationalised to three for the coming year.
end user industries performance
AVEVA sells approximately 30% of its products to 
each of the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets. 
All products are licensed to customers on 
the basis of an initial licence fee (ILF) and 
annual fees or a rental model. The split 
between ILF and rental varies between 
end user markets and geographies.
In the Marine sector AVEVA has a majority 
of new business booked as ILF revenue. 
Over the year this sector started very strongly, 
with a particular emphasis on ILF business 
in China. During the second half the market 
conditions toughened considerably. However, 
we did have some very good sales of both the 
new AVEVA Marine product and AVEVA NET into 
Marine customers in China during the course 
of the year. We expect the ILF business to be 
impacted by a lack of significant new orders 
in the Marine business, although customers’ 
order books and backlog are considerable. 
The oil & gas market was running at an all 
time high at the start of the year, but has 
reverted to the more usual levels of business 
in most areas as the oil price declined and 
some projects were delayed or postponed. 
Unlike previous downturns, this time the oil 
majors and national oil companies are cash 
rich and the return of some stability in the 
oil price shows signs of a better market as 
we enter 2009/10.
The structural global shortage of power still 
exists, even with a lower level of economic 
activity. AVEVA has the most experience of 
any engineering software supplier in both 
the fossil fuel and nuclear sectors. We have 
seen a constant level of business in fossil 
fuelled power facilities and a slow but steady 
build up of order flow in the nuclear market. 
The relationship with AREVA and the order 
build up during the last year augurs well 
for AVEVA this year and beyond. 
technology and products
The year ended 31 March 2009 saw the 
completion of the merging of AVEVA database 
technology with the Marine products acquired 
in 2004. This has been an incremental 
progression of the technology to provide 
Marine customers with a secure path to 
migrate to the latest technology. Other 
benefits have included using some of the 
methods used in Marine in the AVEVA Plant 
suite of products. Once again, during the year 
our technology teams have worked extremely 
hard to deliver class leading solutions in both 
the Plant and Marine product suites, as well 
as a new version of AVEVA NET and many 
customer specific requests during the year. 
buildiNg oN our
Directors’ report financial statements corporate governance business review 
13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009
overview
buildiNg oN our
growth
We have been investing ahead of the industry average delivering best in 
class products. The AVEVA product roadmap has evolved into new products 
and a platform technology base upon which we can progressively build 
new technology.
Since we have been investing ahead of the 
industry average we now have the ‘best in 
class’ products which, as well as introducing 
many innovative features, allow customers 
to transition smoothly to new technology at a 
time which fits with their long project cycles. 
The AVEVA product roadmap, as set out three 
years ago, has evolved into new products and 
a platform technology base, upon which we 
can progressively build new technology as 
well as integrate acquired applications and 
technology. AVEVA has always recognised the 
advantages of openness in its products and 
is a leading member of the industry bodies 
driving the use and adoption of standards 
as an integration enabler for customers. 
AVEVA NET is gaining traction in the market 
and proving to be a truly beneficial tool 
for customers wanting to integrate data 
from multiple sources on both new and 
brownfield projects. The AVEVA NET solution 
is targeted at the growing PLM (Product 
Lifecycle Management) market in Process, 
Power and Marine. As these industries seek 
to address the issues of data inconsistency, 
availability of data in the design process, 
supply chain integration and data handover 
from EPC (Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction) contractors to owner operators, 
AVEVA NET offers an incremental solution 
to these issues. AVEVA NET uses ‘mash up’ 
technology and industry standards such 
as ISO 15926 to integrate data from many 
differing sources. Such is the broad appeal 
of AVEVA NET many of the successful 
implementations are on projects where 
no other AVEVA products are being used.
During the second half of the year 
under review, the Products Group senior 
management has been investigating routes 
to introduce greater flexibility into the product 
development cycle, through restructuring the 
resources within the Group and through 
greater use of outsourced development. 
organisation and people
The Company closed the year with 843 
employees, an increase of 113 over last year. 
Against a backdrop of shortage of supply for 
skilled staff in the engineering industries, 
AVEVA continued hiring to plan until early 
in the second half of the year, at which point 
most recruitment was suspended due to the 
potential slowdown in our end user markets. 
Following a review of the business and the 
likely effects of the global economic slowdown 
we took steps in April 2009 to reduce the cost 
base to ensure that AVEVA is better equipped 
and has an appropriate structure for the more 
difficult market conditions. The restructuring 
programme, due to be completed in the 
first quarter of the current financial year, 
will result in annualised cost savings of 
approximately £5.0 million. These initiatives 
include increasing the flexibility of the 
organisation through restructuring across 
the business and reducing the use of high 
cost subcontractors. Further reductions in the 
cost base will come through pay freezes, some 
part-time working, career breaks, voluntary 
redundancy and some compulsory redundancy. 
We have continued to strengthen the human 
resources teams in the regions, as well as 
adding capability in the area of personnel 
development in order to ensure maximum 
value from the highly successful induction, 
management development and other training 
schemes initiated last year.
Summary
In the trading statement at the end of 
the finanicial year AVEVA indicated that 
during the coming year it expects business 
opportunities for some end user industries 
to be significantly lower than during recent 
years, in particular initial licence fees from 
new sales to the shipbuilding industries. 
We expect the product sales mix to alter 
over the coming year and we have reorganised 
the Company to put a greater emphasis on 
providing products and services for the 
enhancement of brownfield plant and 
providing more AVEVA NET based tools 
in the area of operations and maintenance. 
AVEVA has a good presence within the owner 
operator community, which has committed 
levels of spend similar to recent years. 
The reshaping of the business will position 
the Company to capitalise on the global 
infrastructure which it has built over recent 
years. The Company’s strength in all these 
areas, coupled with sound finances, 
experienced management and a healthy 
cash balance, will continue to present 
many opportunities.
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive
26 May 2009
Directors’ report
