 ●
Improved focus and pace following
senior management changes
●
Foundations for recovery established
●
Crystallising shareholder value through
timely divestments
●
Reducing financial and pension risks
Managing change
Everyone working at Uniq will have noticed the much increased
business focus and heightened pace of activity that have
followed from the significant changes that have been made this
year to the senior management team. These started with the
appointment in August 2005 of Geoff Eaton as chief executive
and since then new leadership has also been introduced in both
the UK and Northern Europe divisions. 
The chief executive’ s review sets out Geoff’ s assessment of the
potential of the Uniq businesses and the thinking behind the
performance improvement initiatives that he and his new team
have put in place. Our major customers, particularly in the UK,
have reacted favourably to the recent changes at Uniq and this
provides an important underpinning for the recovery plans.
In the current financial year and beyond, the board is confident
that all our key stakeholders – and particularly Uniq’ s shareholders
and employees – can share in the rewards from the many
initiatives that are being taken to unlock the true potential of Uniq. 
Financial performance
The highly unsatisfactory trading performance for the financial
year to March 2006 clearly demonstrates why some tough
decisions and decisive actions were needed in changing the
executive team and realigning organisational structures. Uniq 
has a strong portfolio of businesses. We have, however, paid 
the price of not keeping in close enough touch with a number 
of our key customers and failing to move at the pace that is
required to succeed in the dynamic but challenging convenience
food market.
The Southern Europe division had another successful year the
results from both the UK and Northern Europe were sharply
down. At the group level, operating profit at £13.5 million
compares with £28.3 million in 2004/5 from revenues of
£825.1 million, down 6% on the prior year. Some comfort in
terms of the early impact of the recovery plans can, however, 
be taken from the phasing between the first and second half.
Operating profit was down only £1.9 million in the second half
compared with a decline of £12.9 million in the first half.
The 52% fall in operating profit together with a higher interest
expense meant that pre-tax profits before signigicant items,
reduced by 80% to £4.6 million. The adjusted earnings per share
was a loss of 0.2 pence. 
Chairman’ s statement 
Uniq Annual Report 2006 03
Chairman
Nigel Stapleton 04 Uniq Annual Report 2006
In Southern Europe the operating profit of £25.2 million is 
a small improvement on the prior year performance despite 
very tough conditions in the frozen convenience foods market. 
The UK business incurred operating losses of £11.6 million (prior
year £5.5 million loss) due to an operating loss of £11.9 million
at the Minsterley desserts plant. This reflects some serious
shortcomings in handling this acquisition which dates back to
May 2004. In Northern Europe performance was break-even,
versus an operating profit of £9.0 million in the prior year. 
Although the competitive situation was tougher across all 
our markets last year and cost inflation created a new challenge, 
a large part of the deterioration in financial performance has
reflected our own shortcomings and we have taken rapid action
to recover the position.
With a cash outflow of £45.7 million (2004/5: £16.3 million
outflow), Uniq’ s net indebtedness increased to £74.5 million 
by the year end. A significant part of the cash outflow reflects
legacy issues arising from Uniq’ s evolution from the Unigate
group. Payments towards reducing the deficit on the UK defined
benefit scheme and servicing the onerous element of the
distribution contract that was put in place when Wincanton 
was demerged, absorbed £23 million of cash last year and both
are a continuing burden. 
However, as described below, the potential disposals of our
French spreads and Belgian salad businesses will go a long way to
alleviate the pension fund burden, furthermore, we are exploring
all possible avenues to mitigate the cost of the Wincanton
distribution contract which, in any extent, expires in 2009.
We have just agreed the replacement of our banking facilities
which fell due for expiry in October 2006. These new facilities
will provide the company with the funding to implement both
the recovery plans and a strategic reshaping of the business. 
Group strategy
Part of Uniq’ s recent problems can be attributed to the
challenges of seeking to develop too many disparate businesses.
The board has therefore decided that we should focus on a
smaller number of convenience foods businesses which we judge
to have the highest potential for significant profit growth and
shareholder value creation. Consequently, we have decided 
to explore the sale of our French spreads and Belgian salad
businesses. Collectively these businesses accounted in the
financial year ending March 2006 for 12% of group revenues.
Belgian salads generated an operating margin of 12% and French
spreads has the highest margin and is the largest contributor 
to profits in Southern Europe. Both businesses have been
significant and consistent contributors to the group’ s performance.
Uniq will, therefore, change significantly during the year ahead.
We will seek to minimise the financial risk through de-leveraging
the balance sheet. The UK pension deficit will be supported by
Sterling cash balances rather than Euro denominated operating
profits and future payments towards reducing the deficit will 
be sourced from these balances rather than from operating cash
flows. Growth will be underpinned by our recovery plans in the
UK, Netherlands, Germany and Poland and the potential in our
convenience business in France. 
Your board believes there is significant opportunity for adding
value through the increase in focus on this narrower and more
relevant field of activity, supported by a strong balance sheet
and an experienced management team. 
Dividend
The board is recommending a final dividend of 4.5 pence per
share, unchanged from last year. This reflects the confidence 
of the board that the new management and the more focused
strategy will deliver a financially sound business with significant 
growth potential.
Corporate governance
The board has continued to review closely its compliance with
the revised Combined Code on corporate governance and a full
report on the extent of compliance is set out in the corporate
governance and remuneration reports on pages 28 to 37.
Board changes
Geoff Eaton joined as chief executive on 1 August 2005 
and Dr Matthew Litobarski was appointed as a non-executive
director on 1 June 2005. Geoff is a chartered accountant 
and has extensive experience in change management through
roles in corporate development and general management with
Tomkins plc and subsequently as chief executive of Isis Research.
Matthew has recently retired from full time executive duties 
at Cadbury Schweppes plc and brings to the board a broad
experience of European business, particularly in the operations
and logistics field.
Martin George left the board on 10 December 2005 because 
of potential conflict of interest arising from an extension of 
his executive responsibilities at British Airways. The board has
benefited considerably from the commitment and experience
Chairman’ s statement continued
Mar 04 May 04 Oct 04 Mar 05
Three functionally organised
divisions and a Pan European
structure
End of offer period
Minsterley acquired
Start of offer period Uniq Annual Report 2006 05
that Martin contributed during his tenure and would like 
to thank him for his valued contribution to the group. 
Two further non-executive board appointments have been
announced since the year end, to take effect from 12 June 2006.
Ross Warburton is appointed as deputy chairman and Belinda
Gooding as a non executive director. Ross has spent many 
years in the UK food industry, initially in executive roles with 
the family bakery business of Warburtons Limited where he 
was chairman until 2001, and most recently as chairman of
Richmond Foods plc and a number of other businesses. Belinda
Gooding is chief executive of Duchy Originals and has also spent
most of her career in the food industry.
Geoff Eaton, Ross Warburton and Belinda Gooding will be
proposed for election at the 2006 AGM. 
Pension scheme
In August 2005, Paul Manduca replaced Richard Gelling as
chairman of the board of the UK pension fund. Uniq’ s obligations
to this defined benefit pension scheme remain extremely
significant in relation to the size of the group and added
complexity is introduced by the requirements of the 2004
Pensions Act. The board is, therefore, very pleased that a 
person of Paul’ s calibre, with many years of senior experience 
in investment management, has agreed to take this key role.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK fund is being undertaken as 
at 1 April 2006, a year sooner than normal, which will enable
the company and the Trustee to give early consideration to the
scheme specific funding requirement of the 2004 Pensions Act.
People
Implementing the recovery plans that Geoff Eaton describes 
in his chief executive’ s report have imposed a very significant
project workload to which everybody in the business has
contributed to some degree. Our recovery will be based largely
on the experience and actions of our people and, on behalf of
the board; I want to thank all of them for their hard work and
commitment during the past year.
Risks and uncertainties
The strategic reshaping of the business will unlock value in 
Uniq, will increase our focus on fewer operations and will reduce
financial and pension risk inherent in the business. However
there are a number of residual risks for the group in the year
ahead. The new UK structure is starting to function effectively,
but the pace at which it will deliver new business and improve
margins is still unconfirmed. In France the changes introduced 
by our decision to explore the sale of the spreads business will
create uncertainty. We have already taken action to minimise
this uncertainty and intend to communicate fully with all parties
throughout the period of change. In Northern Europe the main
challenge is that of competitive pressure and the new
management team is structured to reduce this risk. On top 
of these trading risks the group is exposed over the long term 
to the scale of the UK pension scheme.
Outlook
The improving trend in performance that was achieved in 
the second half of last year should continue into the current
financial year. 
We expect a significant recovery in the UK performance this
year, sourced from underlying market growth, cost reductions,
efficiency improvements at Minsterley and the price increases
secured at the end of the last financial year. The changes made 
in Northern Europe are more recent and any improvement in
performance versus last year is likely to be modest and evident
only in the second half. In Southern Europe it will be a
challenging year as we manage a significant change programme
and develop plans to secure the future growth of a stand-alone
convenience foods business including a significant increase in
media and marketing expenditure. 
Overall the board is confident that the significant and far
reaching changes that have been made across the business 
will, during the next year, start to demonstrate the true 
potential of Uniq.
Nigel Stapleton
Chairman
6 June 2006
Aug 05 Jun 06 Sept 05 Feb 06 Mar 06
Board abandon Pan
European Strategy
Appointment of new CEO
Resignation of CEO
Appointment of new independent
chairman of pension trustee board
Implement reorganisation in UK
Approve reorganisation in NE 
Adopt new UK 3 year plan
Decide new strategic focus
Appoint Ross Warburton
and Belinda Gooding
