 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 04 
 Directors’ report
Chief Executive’s review
Building a strong UK-focused business
This has been a highly significant year for Uniq in  
which we have successfully implemented the strategy 
we laid out in last year’s annual report.
To achieve this we realised the value of our continental 
operations and progressed our plans to build a business 
of real substance and quality in the UK. It is testament to 
the ability, creativity and commitment of everyone at Uniq 
that at the same time as making these major structural 
changes, we kept a resolute focus on improving the 
day-to-day performance of our Desserts and Food to Go 
businesses. As a result, the UK operations have been able 
to return to profitability in 2009. 
At the beginning of 2009 the credit crisis and rapidly rising 
commodity costs had put food producers under pressure, 
creating a market that was open to consolidation. We reacted 
by participating in, or driving, these consolidation opportunities 
in ways that matched our strategic objectives. In Europe, the 
strong consolidation synergies that our continental businesses 
offered potential buyers ensured that we were able to achieve 
sale prices at the higher end of our expectations. 
In the UK we consolidated our Desserts business, reducing 
the number of sites where we produce desserts from three  
to two. In Food to Go we were able to benefit from supplier 
consolidation as M&S reduced their sandwich suppliers 
from three to two, enabling us to win significant additional 
business. In salads, our relentless attention to service and 
quality secured a major new contract to further enhance 
the recovery of this business.
The cash generated by realising value from our European 
businesses has created the necessary resources to invest in 
and grow our UK operations at an opportune time in the cycle. 
The combination of the leadership from our UK Managing 
Director, Stephen Draisey, and the development of an 
effective strategy backed by the right financial resources 
has enabled us to reinvigorate management across the 
company and attract strong people into key positions in the 
business. While the quality, commitment and experience 
of our management teams has already made a measurable 
impact on our performance, I am confident that their 
contribution will be even more strongly felt in the future. 
Pension agreement
The Pension Trustee and its advisers have concluded that 
the pension deficit for scheme specific funding purposes, 
reflecting the relative weakness of the employer covenant,  
is £436m as at the valuation date of 31 March 2009, 
effectively equivalent to the buy-out deficit. The Pension 
Trustee is highly supportive of the company’s strategy to 
build a strong and focused UK business with the necessary 
scale to support the legacy UK pension obligation in the 
long term. The key elements of the agreement in principle 
with the Pension Trustee that will facilitate this long term 
build are as follows:
 Linking future pension fund contributions to the company’s •	
ability to pay through an agreement to pay the higher of 
33% of EBITDA or £10m per annum from 2013. In the 
period up to 2013 there will be no contributions to the 
scheme but £5m per annum will be set aside from EBITDA 
to fund liability management schemes and the PPF levy.
 Enabling the raising of new capital to fund acquisitions •	
by reducing the percentage share of EBITDA payable to 
the pension scheme if new capital is raised and triggering 
a mechanism under which the new equity would not  
be exposed to the risk of unilateral action by the  
Pension Trustee. 
“At the same time as  
making these major strategic 
changes, we kept a resolute 
focus on improving the  
day-to-day performance  
of our UK operations.” Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05
 Directors’ report
 Chief Executive’s review
  Providing for the possibility of future dividend •	
payments so long as they are sufficiently covered 
by free cash flow net of pension payments. 
 Reducing the risk for the pension scheme by reducing •	
equity exposure from 50% to 30% of scheme assets.  
The Pension Trustee has implemented this de-risking  
in early April 2010.
 
This agreement in principle remains subject to clearance  
by the Pensions Regulator who is considering all aspects  
of this innovative long term proposal. The agreement does  
not cover the payment of the PPF levy from 2013, the 
potential scale of which could threaten the deliverability  
of the proposed pension agreement. 
 
Business strategy
Our strategy is to invest in our UK business serving the 
private label chilled prepared food market. This investment 
will be in people, processes and equipment as all three are 
vital to create an organisation that is capable of growing 
ahead of its competitors and earning returns in line with the 
industry average. As we build the strength of the organisation, 
we will look to grow through acquisition. This build strategy 
will create an organisation with the scale and quality 
necessary to satisfy the needs of our customers, the 
aspirations of our people, the long term needs of the 
members of the pension fund and ultimately deliver a 
satisfactory return to our shareholders. This strategy is 
dependent on putting in place the pension agreement, 
which requires regulatory clearance.
Outlook
The momentum evident in our strong quarter four results 
looks set to carry forward into 2010. In quarter one 2010 
group sales were up 4.2% on the equivalent period in 2009, 
reflecting the business wins secured in quarter four 2009. 
The quarter one operating results are significantly better 
than last year and slightly ahead of the Board’s 
expectations. Subject to the resolution of our pensions 
funding, this positions the group well to continue to build  
a UK business that has the quality and flexibility to grow 
profitably in the dynamic markets in which we operate.
Geoff Eaton
Chief Executive
15 April 2010
Delivering  
the transformation
February 2009 Bank facilities renewed
March 2009 Modified strategy announced  
Pinneys business sold
August 2009 £15m of new sandwich business commenced 
October 2009 French business sold for £60.9m  
£12m of new salads business commenced
November 2009 Paignton desserts site closed 
December 2009 Bremerhaven property sold
January 2010 Netherlands business sold for £18.0m  
Paignton property sold
April 2010 Germany/Poland transaction to be completed 
Long term Pension framework agreed 
subject to regulatory clearance
Vision and values 
To be the best chilled prepared food company  
in the UK as judged by our customers, suppliers, 
employees and shareholders. Each business is 
developing its own set of values in a process of 
increasing engagement with all our employees  
so that within three years we will have developed 
a culture that fully supports our vision. 
