 Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 02 
 Directors’ report
Nandos Coleslaw: 
Cabbage, carrot and onion 
in a mayonnaise dressing 
with parsley.
I am pleased to report a marked improvement in the 
performance of our continuing UK business, with 
trading operating profits of £4.4m in 2009, compared 
to a loss of £1.3m in 2008. Sales for 2009 were broadly 
flat at £287m (up 0.2%), reflecting difficult market 
conditions in the first half but recovering strongly 
in the final quarter to rise 4.5%.
Discontinued businesses
In order to achieve our strategic transformation (outlined 
more fully in the Chief Executive’s review) we sold our 
French business at the start of the final quarter for £60.9m, 
our Netherlands business for £18.0m, the sale completing 
on 9 January 2010 and the £25.7m sale of our German/
Polish operations is expected to complete in April 2010 
following the clearance by the German competition 
authority that was received on 12 April 2010. 
The net cash proceeds from the sales will be used to  
pay down bank borrowings when they fall due and to 
fund our UK capital investment programme. 
UK operations
The Board’s decision to reshape our portfolio of 
businesses and to focus solely on our UK operations 
enables us to strengthen our market positions and 
improve our growth prospects. In Desserts, for example, 
we closed our Paignton factory and transferred production 
to Minsterley. This reduced costs in 2009 and the further 
reduction coming through in 2010 will support our 
Desserts strategy. In Food to Go we have invested in 
expanding capacity to meet the requirements of major 
new business wins from M&S and The Co-operative. 
Together, these should generate an extra £27m of 
annualised sales and demonstrate that our refocused 
business is providing the high levels of service and quality 
that our customers demand.
We have made good progress against our corporate social 
responsibility agenda: making sure that we develop the 
talents of our employees, reducing waste, and working with 
our suppliers and customers to create great food produced 
in a way that minimises the impact on the environment. 
Corporate social responsibility works absolutely in accord 
with creating a successful, sustainable long-term business. 
Pensions 
After extensive consultation, we have reached agreement 
in principle with the Pension Trustee on a long term pension 
framework. This framework is designed to facilitate our 
strategy of building a business with the scale and quality 
to deliver the sustainable growth which is necessary to fund 
the pension deficit over the long term. Importantly, this 
agreement is subject to clearance by the Pensions Regulator 
and resolution of the scale and funding of the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF) Levy.
As previously reported, the outcome of the discussions  
with the Pension Trustee, as influenced by the approval 
or otherwise of the Pensions Regulator, is likely to have a 
fundamental impact on the future of the pension scheme 
and on shareholder value, either positive or negative.
Strategic development 
Last year we announced a modified strategy to transform  
the business and focus on the UK. The delivery of this 
transformation, the improvements in UK trading results 
and the progress made in reaching an agreement in principle  
with the Pension Trustee over the last year are remarkable 
achievements in extremely challenging circumstances. 
Chairman’s statement
Improved performance Uniq Annual Report and Accounts 2009 03
 Directors’ report
 Chairman’s statement
The next steps in our strategy are to consolidate improvements 
in the UK during 2010 and then build the scale of the business 
both through further organic development and through 
selective acquisition. Increasing the scale of the business is 
essential to rebalance the company’s free cashflow with the 
currently disproportionate scale of the pension fund liabilities. 
This strategy is dependent on putting in place the pension 
agreement, which requires regulatory clearance.
Dividend
The Board has decided to retain funds in the business 
to invest in capital projects and has therefore decided 
not to recommend paying a final dividend. 
Board
This is my first Chairman’s statement since I agreed to step 
up from Senior Independent Director to Interim Chairman, 
following the resignation of Ross Warburton in June 2009. 
I would like to thank Ross for his contribution to Uniq and 
wish him well for the future. Given the importance of 
stability at a time when the group is emerging from a long 
period of restructuring and is now poised for a potentially 
exciting stage of development, I have agreed to serve the 
business as Chairman on an ongoing basis. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our Chief 
Executive, Geoff Eaton, our Finance Director, Martin Beer, 
all the senior management team, and indeed every 
employee at Uniq for their hard work this year. It is great 
credit to them that they have achieved so much during  
what have been difficult market conditions. 
John Warren
Chairman
15 April 2010
“The delivery of this 
transformation has been 
achieved in 2009 and the 
agreement in principle 
with the Pension Fund is 
a remarkable achievement 
in extremely challenging 
circumstances.”
