 10
AVEVA Group plc
Annual report 2010
Directors’ report
Chief Executive’ s review
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive
>> Highlights
  Overall performance of most industry segments served 
by AVEVA has been in line with our expectations. 
  AVEVA managed to secure important new contracts with 
Kyokuyo Shipyard in Japan and Samsung in Korea. 
  The quality of the AVEVA products and their suitability 
for the Oil and Gas projects in Brazil has positioned AVEVA 
for strong growth in this market.
  Research and Development continued to be a key priority 
during the year.
Overview
AVEVA continued its development despite the challenges 
of the world economy, delivering a good performance 
reflecting the fundamental strengths of the business. 
Our strong base of recurring revenue and good growth 
in developing markets helped to mitigate the impact of 
global economic uncertainty, particularly on initial fees 
in Marine. As a result, overall revenue fell only 10% to 
£148.3 million (2009 – £164.0 million).
Decisive restructuring actions taken in the first half 
delivered the anticipated efficiency savings, better 
equipping the Group to address the trading environment. 
This helped to ensure that margins remained strong at 
33% (2009 – 35%), whilst also enabling us to invest 
selectively in growth opportunities, particularly in 
South America, the CIS, where we expanded local 
resources and AVEVA NET where we increased capacity 
in solutions delivery. The whole organisation showed 
great professionalism and commitment throughout 
this process and the Group was quickly able to move 
forward this year with the right cost base.
Overall performance of most industry segments served 
by AVEVA has been in line with our expectations. Funding 
constraints in the Oil and Gas sector led to some major 
new projects proceeding slowly, although the situation 
steadily improved during the year. In particular, there 
have been some areas of intense activity, notably Brazil, 
where we have expanded our presence in Rio de Janeiro. 
to view the Chief Executive’s review online:
ar.aveva.com/2010
“AVEVA continued its development despite the challenges of the world 
economy, delivering a good performance reflecting the fundamental 
strengths of the business.“
_2_AVE_ar10_front.indd   10 01/06/2010   16:41:05 Overview
Business review
Corporate Governance
Financial statements
11
AVEVA Group plc
Annual report 2010
Directors’ report
The Power industry tends to have much longer investment 
cycles and has not been as susceptible to the global 
downturn with our business in both fossil-fuelled and 
nuclear builds continuing to grow steadily. Marine did 
suffer from a dramatic decline in new build orders and 
concerns over funding for the existing ship order backlog. 
By making some hard decisions at the start of the year 
to adjust the cost base we have been able to expand the 
business during the year to exploit new opportunities. 
We have recruited high calibre people into both our office 
network and the AVEVA NET organisation, which has already 
benefited our sales. There have been a number of significant 
sales of AVEVA NET during the year and a strengthening 
business pipeline as we have built up our specialist 
business development team focused on sales into the 
owner operator market. We have already started on 
building up our service delivery capability in order 
to serve this £500 billion market.
Global performance
Providing a consistent high quality level of product 
performance and customer service has become increasingly 
important during the last year, as customers who already 
operate internationally seek to introduce further efficiencies 
into their own operations by increasing the use of 24/7 
working and high value engineering centres.
Key to the success in winning customers away from our 
competitors has been the high quality of support and 
service we can offer from our 35 locations, in addition 
to the partners who work with us in some regions.
Asia Pacific – Revenue £50.5 million 
(2009 – £67.1 million)
Whilst we have had to adjust for a rapid decline in 
Marine sales, growth was delivered in other parts of the 
business, in particular the Chinese Power market. We also 
made good progress in sales of AVEVA NET to both Plant 
and Marine customers. Asia has borne the brunt of the 
decline in initial fee licence sales, as the majority of 
Asian business tends to be based on the initial fee sales 
as opposed to the rental model, which is more prevalent 
in other regions.
Due to the very high number of sales in Marine during 
the latter part of 2008/09 and the ongoing opportunities 
of providing start up assistance to new customers, support 
levels were maintained in China Marine. However, we were 
also able to focus these resources on selling AVEVA NET 
into the rapidly growing market for Product Lifecycle 
Management (PLM) solutions within the Marine 
customer base.
Despite the downturn, AVEVA managed to secure 
important new contracts with Kyokuyo Shipyard in 
Japan and Samsung in Korea for both Marine and 
Plant divisions. 
In non-Marine markets we made good progress 
in securing important new strategic contracts. This 
included collaboration with one of the world’s largest 
companies, China National Petroleum Co Petrochemical 
Project Company (CNPC PPC).
Citec Engineering Oy
Mr. Thomas Back, Application Specialist:
“Most importantly, the system gives us the 
ability to generate completely clash-free designs. 
Everything will fit when the plant is being built.”
_2_AVE_ar10_front.indd   11 01/06/2010   16:41:06 12
AVEVA Group plc
Annual report 2010
Directors’ report
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Global performance continued
Americas – Revenue £26.9 million 
(2009 – £24.4 million)
Latin America, particularly in Brazil, provides an 
important development opportunity for the Group. 
Since the opening of our office in Rio de Janeiro last year , 
we have built a high quality team and have already 
doubled the size of our original office, with plans to 
continue hiring into our sales and customer support 
teams. The quality of the AVEVA products and their 
suitability for the Oil and Gas projects in Brazil, along 
with the local support, has positioned AVEVA for strong 
growth in this market for the foreseeable future. We have 
secured a two year corporate agreement with Petrobras 
for the supply of design products. 
AVEVA products are already being used on many of the 
offshore projects starting to be commissioned in the 
region, with new customers joining from the Brazilian 
Engineering, Procurement and Contracting (EPC) 
community. In addition, AVEVA has the opportunity 
to sell the AVEVA Marine products into new shipyards 
which are expected to be commissioned to build Floating 
Production and Storage Offshore (FPSO) vessels and a 
fleet of Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC).
Performance in North America has remained subdued. 
As in previous years our strong and enduring relationships 
with many Oil and Gas customers have provided stability 
and some growth opportunities. We have used the 
downturn to build our business development expertise, 
with particular focus on deeper penetration of the Owner 
Operator market in the United States, with the aim of 
replicating our recent successes. We were pleased with 
the highly successful implementation of AVEVA NET at 
Mustang, one of the largest EPC firms in the US.
The market in Canada was one of the first casualties of 
the rapid oil price decline and shows little sign of recovery 
in the short term. With the oil price at circa US$80 there 
is still uncertainty surrounding the exploitation of oil 
sands reserves in Canada and the high costs of 
subsequent environmental impact.
EMEA – Revenue £70.9 million (2009 – £72.6 million, 
combined former WEMEA and CES regions)
The combined EMEA region, which was created last year 
from two business regions, has performed very well 
throughout the year. This region has a very diverse 
spread of business and a wide geographic mix with 
diverse drivers, from the Middle East, up through the CIS, 
across to Spain and down as far as South Africa.
The Oil and Gas business has performed well. Some 
notable highlights include a large rental expansion from 
Technip and our first significant sale in Iraq with AVEVA 
products installed at SIDDCO and ADMA in Abu Dhabi, 
who have mandated the use of AVEVA products on all 
future projects. The Power market is very important 
across the EMEA region, with long-term customers like 
Alstom and AREVA as key players. We have extended our 
relationship with AREVA by securing business from the 
AREVA Nuclear Fuels division. The Marine business, which 
is spread across the region, has been generally flat 
throughout the year. 
Alliance Engineering
Mr. Ron Bohannon, Vice President of Engineering:
“AVEVA’s technology helps us streamline our 
engineering process and contributes to Alliance 
Engineering’s ability to deliver projects at 
a lower weight (therefore, lower cost) and 
ahead of schedule.”
_2_AVE_ar10_front.indd   12 01/06/2010   16:41:07 Overview
Business review
Corporate Governance
Financial statements
13
AVEVA Group plc
Annual report 2010
Directors’ report
EMEA has been the region where we have been the most 
consistently successful in winning customers away from 
our competitors. This year we have added 79 new name 
customers across the region, with many of these converting 
to AVEVA after years of using competitors’ systems. 
We are also investing in the CIS and have seen very 
strong sales in this sub region. AVEVA has won important 
new business with customers in the Oil and Gas and 
Power markets. Some of these customers will be strategic 
in winning further business as we expand in the region. 
Of particular note is the contract with OJSC TANECO, the 
operator of the new multibillion dollar refinery complex 
in Russia, who will now use AVEVA NET as the consolidation 
tool for all engineering data for this mega project. In the 
Nuclear power field we have secured KIEP as our second 
CIS nuclear design institute. 
End user market trends
We have seen differing trends in each of the main end 
user markets during the year. 
AVEVA has achieved a very strong position as a preferred 
supplier for many of the world’s power station providers, 
both fossil-fuelled and nuclear. The global span of customers 
using AVEVA products on new build power plants can be 
seen by our leading position with many of the European 
suppliers but is particularly pronounced in Asia, with 
some great successes during the past year in China. 
The market for power stations has a very long-lead cycle 
and may span a recession but there have been concerns 
over the funding of future projects, in particular large 
nuclear power projects. Although we have not yet seen 
a huge upturn in demand for products from this sector, 
we anticipate a steady increase in demand for many years 
to come, as the current global power generation capacity 
falls well short of predicted consumption even before 
taking into account all of the capacity which is due to be 
retired in the near future.
Marine presented us with the most challenges but has 
performed predictably throughout the year. We still have 
a very busy customer base in Marine as most customers 
are working on orders received over recent years and for 
the majority of customers these orders still stretch out 
over the next two or three years. Until the market for new 
ships returns we expect the market for design tools to 
remain subdued. However, efficient production is paramount 
in a modern shipyard and we plan to extend the use of 
the Marine variant of AVEVA NET to more yards, particularly 
in China and Korea.
In Oil and Gas, whilst the tar sands project in Canada 
remains slow to recover from the stoppages caused by 
uncertainty over commodity prices, most other areas 
have remained buoyant. In Brazil the market is very 
strong, as Petrobras and others rush to capitalise on the 
huge oil reserves off the Brazilian east coast. We expect 
this market to continue to grow strongly and further 
investment in Brazil is a key element of our future 
planning. We see additional opportunities in Russia 
and expect to continue to grow our team there following 
the strong performance from this region during the 
past year. With greater stability in the oil price we are 
planning further investment in those regions likely to 
benefit from consistently increased commodity prices. 
These include Malaysia and the global market for FPSO 
assets, where AVEVA is already a leader.
“AVEVA has achieved a very strong position as a preferred supplier for many 
of the world’s power station providers, both fossil-fuelled and nuclear.”
_2_AVE_ar10_front.indd   13 01/06/2010   16:41:07 14
AVEVA Group plc
Annual report 2010
Directors’ report
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Technology and products
Research and Development continued to be a key 
priority during the year in order to enhance our 
software applications and functionality. The high levels 
of investment in recent years ensure that we have the 
most advanced product offering in the industry. There 
has been a large investment in consolidating the 
developments of recent years and further improving 
quality. This work has been carried out across the entire 
product portfolio, with special focus on those developments 
deemed essential for deeper penetration of developing 
markets in Latin America and Eastern Europe.
Integration between applications from multiple vendors 
has been high on the agenda of many Chief Information 
Officers and AVEVA has always been a leader in providing 
open solutions and investing in global standards initiatives. 
During the last year we have provided more interfaces to 
third-party software products than ever before to enable 
customers to achieve greater value from their project 
and enterprise information.
Last year we acquired a specialist business in Australia 
to manage instrumentation data. The new version of this 
instrumentation product has been delivered and, with 
many new customers taking up this product during the 
year, we have received very positive feedback on the 
level of functionality and the competitiveness of our 
new solution.
In addition to work on consolidating the core product 
range, we have continued to expand the functionality of 
AVEVA NET with many new features added, as we gained 
further experience working with oil majors and large 
Chinese shipbuilders. The teams working on AVEVA NET 
have been increased during the year, with plans in place 
to continue the expansion of AVEVA NET and bring to 
market a novel web navigation capability within the 
coming months.
Organisation and people
The AVEVA human resources team played a key role in 
successfully transitioning the organisation into a shape 
and size which was needed as we entered the downturn. 
This was achieved by introducing a range of cost saving 
measures including a salary freeze, career breaks, 
part-time working and some redundancies, both 
voluntary and compulsory. Once again I would like to 
thank all those affected by this for their understanding 
and professionalism. 
We have continued to expand the sales and support 
network and our relatively new office in Brazil has 
doubled in size to cope with the demands of this exciting 
new market for AVEVA products and services. We have 
also increased staff numbers in Russia and the CIS, 
along with some areas within the Asia Pacific region.
“AVEVA has done very well over the last year and the core strengths in both 
our people and products have served to provide confidence to customers in 
a difficult year.”
_2_AVE_ar10_front.indd   14 01/06/2010   16:41:07 Overview
Business review
Corporate Governance
Financial statements
15
AVEVA Group plc
Annual report 2010
Directors’ report
Since merging two sales regions into one to form 
EMEA last year and the rigorous examination of our 
cost base, we have made cost savings by rationalising 
some corporate functions and introduced new centralised 
systems to streamline the reporting processes of a very 
international business. 
Outlook
AVEVA has done very well over the last year and the core 
strengths in both our people and products have served 
to provide confidence to customers in a difficult year.
As the global economic outlook improves, AVEVA is 
well placed to fulfil customers’ requirements through our 
world-class products together with their increasingly 
high level of service demanded. We have taken the 
opportunity over the past year to evaluate all aspects 
of our business and have been continually strengthening 
the areas where we see the most opportunity for growth, 
in particular increasing the investment levels in AVEVA NET. 
With our design products we have invested in new 
geographies that have grown strongly and we will continue 
to invest and develop offices and people. AVEVA has the 
right products and a proven track record which appeal to 
customers seeking highly functional products backed by 
first class local support and service.
We will continue to seek to maximise organic growth 
and to complement it with acquisitions as and when 
opportunities arise which can extend the functionality 
of our products or our market reach. 
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive
26 May 2010
Sumitomo Heavy Industries – Marine & Engineering
Dr Masao Takekawa, Director of Construction 
Management Division:
“The quality and efficiency of our design have 
been improved with AVEVA Marine. We believe 
these efficient solutions are key ingredients 
to success in today’s competitive and very 
challenging shipbuilding world.”
_2_AVE_ar10_front.indd   15 01/06/2010   16:41:10
