 06 Uniq Annual Report 2006
●
Realigned organisational structures
●
Encouraging entrepreneurial leadership
●
Focused on customers and innovation
●
Accountability and fast decision making
●
Building a high performing culture
Introduction
As chief executive, I see my role as unlocking the true potential
of Uniq. 
Within two months of joining in August 2005 it became 
evident that this would be an even greater challenge than I had
anticipated because the trading results were deteriorating faster
than expected. This prompted a profit warning last September
and an outcome for the year that, whilst in line with our revised
expectation, does not begin to reflect the inherent strengths 
of the Uniq business portfolio. 
My first task was to review the businesses and identify 
the priority areas. It was immediately apparent that the
circumstances of each of the three divisions were different.
Southern Europe had consistently delivered in line with
expectations, so my initial efforts were directed towards 
the UK and Northern Europe. 
UK
The UK was in need of the most urgent attention, with 
a centralised structure that was proving unable to service the
diverse needs of its private label customer base. The division
lacked focus and proper accountability and was experiencing 
a major drain of resources and cash at the Minsterley 
desserts plant.
I quickly concluded that new and experienced leadership was
needed to address these issues and to take the division back to
profitability. I therefore appointed Rick Turnbull as UK managing
director. Rick has a very clear vision of the type of organisation
that works well in partnership with the major UK retailers and
many years of experience leading such organisations.
We sought to build on the UK division’ s fundamental 
strengths, namely:
● Its markets have significant potential for growth and
innovation and are well placed to benefit from the positive
trends of health, premiumisation and convenience;
● It has product categories which can achieve price premiums
and profitable growth, but only if we work in partnership with
our key customers; and
● The factories are well invested, have an excellent skill base
and the fundamentals of food safety and quality are
embedded in the culture.
Chief executive’ s review
Chief executive
Geoff Eaton
Aug 05 Sept 05
Take up appointment
Understand the business
and customer needs
Identify the strengths
and weaknesses
Appoint new UK MD
Reverse Evercreech
closure decision
Create UK customer
focused business units Uniq Annual Report 2006 07
In October 2005, we launched a reorganisation of the division
into six new independent entrepreneurially-led, customer
focused, profit-accountable business units:
● Three businesses (Evercreech, Paignton and Minsterley)
producing desserts and cottage cheese, each with a 
different key customer focus;
● Northampton sandwiches and dips;
● Smedleys prepared salads in Spalding; and 
● Pinneys fish and ready meals in Annan.
We reversed an earlier decision to close Evercreech and transfer
its production to Minsterley. Reflecting the new strategy to build
our desserts businesses on quality and innovation, not volume,
Evercreech will remain a key part of the UK business. 
These six business units are supported by a small central team,
with the key roles of mentoring and performance monitoring.
Co-operation and co-ordination are encouraged across a wide
range of activities, including purchasing, customer relations,
talent sourcing and development, lean manufacturing, pricing
strategy and systems development. The objective is to create
more value than the sum of the parts, without undermining the
drive and ownership that comes from the autonomy and
individual responsibility of the business units. 
Our key priorities in the UK are right-sizing the cost base,
improving the gross margin, achieving a profitable business
model at Minsterley and nurturing effective leadership at all
levels in the organisation.
At Minsterley, customer service problems have already been
addressed and we have developed detailed plans for recovery 
in the other areas of weakness. Although the numerous problems
have taken time to fix, we believe these initiatives will establish
Minsterley as a successful and profitable desserts supplier. 
Under the recovery plan Minsterley is expected to return to
profitability and generate positive cash flow by the fourth
quarter of the new financial year.
The foundations for long term growth in the UK are now in place
and this is evidenced by the improving relationships with each 
of our key customers. High service levels were delivered during
the demanding Christmas period and we have secured price
increases in March and April across most of our product range,
which will be worth £10 million in a full year. Additionally, we
have reinforced our management capability through a number 
of experienced hires to key positions, most notable of which 
was Howard Sims who joined as managing director of Pinneys,
bringing with him strong and deep relationships with our largest
customer in the UK. 
The UK decentralisation has resulted in a reduction in annualised
costs of circa £9 million at a one off cash cost of £8 million and
a headcount reduction of 177; both the costs and the benefits
of this reorganisation are greater than anticipated at the half year. 
Further evidence of the benefits from the wide ranging initiatives
taken in the UK can be seen from a second half operating loss 
of £2.0 million which was favourable to last year’ s second half,
whereas the first half operating loss of £9.6 million was
£8.4 million worse than last year. It can therefore be seen that
we are on an improving trend.
We start the new financial year confident that the recovery 
is gathering pace with an organisation that is much better
positioned to serve its customers effectively and to generate
profitable growth through creativity and innovation.
Northern Europe
As the year progressed it became apparent that our Northern
European division was struggling. 
Despite a successful sale of the underperforming Nordic salad
business for net £9.3 million, which had reduced the geographic
scope of the business, the centralised regional structure was
failing to respond properly to the many challenges and
opportunities across its diverse markets. Sales were on a
downward trend and the margin enhancement and cost
reduction initiatives were not delivering the expected benefits.
The worsening trend is evidenced by the fact that a modest first
half operating profit of £0.8 million has reversed to an operating
loss of £0.9 million in the second half. In the prior year the
division had made an operating profit of £9.0 million.
Pending a full reappraisal, I focused the team on a smaller
number of cost reduction projects and made organisational
changes designed to increase the focus on local markets and 
to stimulate a better performance from sales and marketing.
In December 2005 I appointed Frans Rombouts as the new
managing director of the division. Frans brings considerable
general management experience including 20 years operating 
in the food industry throughout Northern Europe and he is
applying his proven entrepreneurial skills in addressing 
these problems. 
Oct 05 Nov/Dec Dec 05 Feb 06 Mar 06
Strengthen and change the
group's head office function
Focus on Minsterley recovery
Focus on delivering Christmas
Appoint new NE MD
Strengthen UK and NE teams
Develop NE recovery plans
Propose UK 3 year plan 
Establish strategic direction
Announce intention to sell Belgian
salad and French spreads businesses
Appoint new Marie
convenience group MD
Apr 06 Jun 06 Chief executive’ s review continued
Uniq Group - Enterprise Value £320m 
Equity 
(@ £1.41)
Net Pensions 
Deficit
Net Debt
£160m
£75m
£85m
£98m Sales to be divested
Spreads
Belgium
£63m
£35m
£717m Sales to be retained
UK Convenience
French
Convenience
Germany
Poland
Netherlands
£190m
£322m
£205m
UK – plus factors
•  Growth potential
•  Scope for innovation
•  Strong customers keen 
on premium quality
•  Well invested factories
•  Lots of skills 
NE – plus factors
•  Benelux highly profitable
•  Poland high growth 
emerging market
•  Growing product segments
•  Well invested factories
SE – plus factors
•  Strong spreads business
•  Marie brand and growing 
chilled market
•  Consistent delivery
Group – plus factors
•  Willingness to embrace
change
•  Fast decision making
•  Supportive shareholders
UK - issues
•  Overcentralised
•  Out of touch with 
customers
•  Lack of focus and
accountability
•  Inexperienced leadership
•  MINSTERLEY!
•  Losses
NE – issues
•  Overcentralised
•  Lack of focus on local
markets
•  Cost reduction initiatives
disappointing
•  Germany tough
•  High penetration of hard
discounters
SE – issues
•  Mature/declining frozen
market
•  Loi Jacob – increase in 
price competition
Group – issues
•  Pension deficit
•  Wincanton onerous contract
•  Poor cash flow
•  Too much debt and rising
UK - actions
•  Appoint Rick Turnbull
•  Decentralise
•  Encourage innovation
•  Reverse Evercreech closure
– M&S delighted
•  Fix Minsterley, big challenge
•  Add to bench strength –
Howard Sims appointment
NE – actions
•  Appoint Frans Rombouts
•  Decentralise
•  Focus on sales and
marketing
•  More accountability
•  Explore sale of Belgian
salads
SE – actions
•  Maintain stability
•  Re-launch Marie brand
•  Increase brand investment
•  Explore sale of spreads
•  Improve competitiveness
Group – actions
•  Balance needs of all
stakeholders
•  Improve quality of 
pension covenant
•  Refinance debt
Agenda for change Uniq Annual Report 2006 09
We have now decentralised to country business units. We are
moving to focus the factories on a smaller range of products
which will reduce complexity, cut costs and minimise the
investment needs. The management has been strengthened 
in key areas: one example is the appointment of a general
manager for Poland who will run our largest factory, where 
many opportunities have been identified to improve efficiency,
and bring greater focus to the fastest growing of our Northern
European markets. 
The business units are accelerating the pace of product
innovation. The brands are being revitalised through the
application of appropriate commercial support and the launch
of new products that meet the needs of the local market. 
The changes introduced in Northern Europe have been
implemented more recently than the UK and we will shortly 
be finalising our three year plan. However, we are already 
seeing some early evidence of a positive impact from these 
new initiatives and many opportunities to improve profit have
been identified. Although we expect the division to return to
profitability in the current financial year, this is unlikely to
happen until the second half and it will not be a major
contributor to group results in 2006/7. 
Southern Europe
Under the leadership of John Wood-Dow, the Southern Europe
division delivered to its budget, earning an operating profit 
of £25.2 million (prior year £24.8 million). This has provided
essential profit and cash support to the group during a period 
of underperformance in the other two divisions.
France comprises two strong businesses with very different
business dynamics. The spreads business, which is primarily
focused on the health segment, has delivered consistent 
growth at high margins, founded on successful brands and an
impressive technical base. The recent re-launch of ‘llô’ with the
new name of ‘Cholegram’ was well received and our market
share overall reached a record 31.8% by the year end in March.
We have an exciting pipeline of new products and an efficient,
lean organisation.
The Marie convenience business also has a terrific brand. 
Its future is founded on serving the growing chilled market 
and on tackling the challenges posed by a tough and mature
frozen market. 
Overall, volumes in our frozen business continue to decline. 
The Marie branded frozen business has been affected adversely
in recent months by the outcome of negotiations with retailers
and the increased price competition prompted by the French
Government’ s ‘Loi Jacob’ legislation. We have held volumes 
in food service and private label and have had further success 
in developing export markets. Recent progress in category
management and successful launches of new products gives 
us confidence we can arrest this decline. 
The Marie chilled business has continued to grow market 
shares in the sectors in which it competes. In early 2006, we
modernised and re-launched the Marie brand and are investing 
in higher levels of media support. Currently the brand has over
90% consumer awareness but achieves a rate of purchase of just
3.4 times per year per consumer. The challenge is to achieve
greater volume growth by increasing the effectiveness of this
well known brand which stands for good nutrition, quality
ingredients and convenience for busy and discerning consumers. 
I am pleased to report that Giampaolo Schiratti joins us on 
6 June 2006 as the new managing director of the Marie
convenience business. He will lead the next phase of development
as we focus our efforts on building competitiveness in the
convenience market in Southern Europe. Giampaolo brings
considerable experience and a successful track record from his
18 years in the food industry, most recently with another well
known branded convenience foods supplier, Bonduelle Groupe.  
Group
We have introduced a new financial control culture to support
the autonomous entrepreneurial style within the business units
and this is now coming into effect. We have also made new 
key appointments at head office and are simplifying the
processes through which the head office interacts with the 
three divisions.
Strategy – be pragmatic
•  Crystallise value through sale of French spreads and
Belgian salads
•  Pay down debt to reduce financial risk
•  Match the UK pension deficit with sterling cash 
•  Focus on recovery in UK and NE and building our
convenience business in France – we have the management
•  Good for shareholders, banks and pension trustees 
•  Create the resources to fund the business recovery
Early days, but upside looking good. 10 Uniq Annual Report 2006
The introduction in the new financial year of redesigned
incentive plans – which focus on growth in profit and return 
on capital and offer more significant rewards for superior
performance – have been well received.
Legacy issues and cash flow
Uniq has two legacy issues which have a significant adverse
impact on cash flow. An eight year distribution contract with
Wincanton, entered into when it was demerged from Uniq in
2001, imposes a pattern of distribution unsuited to our current
and future needs following the decentralisation of the UK
business. We have fully provided for the onerous element 
of this contract until it expires in 2009 but this legacy is costing
the business circa £8 million per annum in cash outlays. We are
exploring all possible avenues to mitigate these costs. 
The company’ s obligations to the UK defined benefit pension
scheme, where current employees comprise only 4% of the 
total membership, is a much larger legacy issue reflecting the
significant downscaling of what was the Unigate group. Uniq
continues to pay an additional £15 million per annum to the
scheme which is expected to pay down the IAS 19 deficit 
over a period of six to seven years. 
We have developed a still closer dialogue with the pension 
fund Trustee, and we are committed to building the quality 
of the covenant through our efforts to improve the group’ s
financial performance, particularly in the UK. We shall continue
to work with the Trustee to balance the financing needs of the
business with the tax efficient funding of the pension scheme.
Key priorities going forward
Across the group, since August 2005, we have made some 
far reaching changes in senior management and organisational
structures. We have empowered our business unit teams, we 
are starting to reconnect with our customers and markets and
we have secured a much greater focus and accountability for
profit improvement and raising the return on capital. We have
also much increased the speed and quality of decision making.
These changes have been in place for a relatively short period 
of time and our top priority for the next year is to ensure that
they become firmly embedded and have the expected
favourable impact on our financial performance.
The board believes strongly that these changes have started to
build the platform for recovery and we enter the new financial
year with confidence in the momentum of improvements across
all three divisions.
Nigel Stapleton has explained in his chairman’ s statement the
board’ s decision to focus on a smaller number of convenience
foods businesses which we judge to have the highest potential
for adding shareholder value. By far the most significant
divestment will be the possible sale of the French spreads
business. Over the next few months John Wood-Dow will lead
the sale process and work to ensure an orderly separation of the
spreads and convenience businesses but has decided thereafter
to leave the company to pursue other interests. The board is 
very grateful to John for his significant contribution to Uniq and,
in particular, for his leadership of the Southern Europe division
over the last four years, during which it has achieved a most
impressive performance. 
A further key priority for the current year therefore is to
implement successfully this divestment programme. Once
completed, the disposals we are exploring will crystallise value
for Uniq shareholders in a number of ways. Our bank debt will 
be eliminated, there will be sufficient cash to significantly reduce
our exposure to the IAS19 pension liability and we will have the
resources to support our plans for delivering better returns from
all the businesses we retain. 
My first ten months at Uniq have been both demanding and
exciting. I feel very fortunate to have been able to build such 
a strong team to help me in unlocking the potential in your
business. The board has been hugely supportive through this
period of rapid change. I have also been heartened by the
confidence expressed by our largest shareholders and the
growing support from our customers. Although it is still early
days, I am pleased with progress and I remain highly confident
about the future for Uniq.
Geoff Eaton
Chief executive
6 June 2006
Chief executive’ s review continued
