 CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
The changes we made to the business a year ago 
underpinned the improvement we saw in 2014,  
as the business delivered strong operational and 
financial performance and returned to positive 
free cash flow for the first time in three years. 
Kelvin Dushnisky
Chairman of the Board
What makes us different?
• Leading asset portfolio
• Proven management team
• Operational delivery 
• Financial flexibility
• Cost discipline
Dear Shareholders,
2014 was an important and pleasing year for 
the Company as we reaped the benefits of 
strengthening the Board and Management 
team in 2013. Whilst the gold price ended the 
year at US$1,206 per ounce, only 1.6% down on 
the previous year, there was significant volatility 
throughout 2014, with a low of US$1,142 per 
ounce putting further pressure on the sector. 
In spite of continued challenges in the gold 
and wider mining market, Acacia achieved 
significant share price outperformance against 
both the UK market and the wider gold mining 
sector, ending the year up 37.5%. This reflected 
our continued operational delivery, with a second 
successive year of production increases and 
significant further reductions in the cost base 
that led to a return to free cash generation. 
Change of name to Acacia Mining
An important development in 2014 was the 
change of the Company’s name to Acacia Mining 
(LSE:ACA), which our shareholders voted in 
favour of in November. The decision to change 
the name was made in order to reflect the new 
culture and strategic direction of the business. 
The Acacia tree is hardy and resilient, and 
thrives in challenging environments. We believe 
that these characteristics reflect our enhanced 
operational capabilities and goals, and the 
adoption of the new name is already driving  
a change of perceptions of the business with  
our stakeholders both in Tanzania and beyond.
STRATEGIC REPORT
6 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 2
2
4
2
Geology
Engineering
Financial
African and regional affairs
Board skills
We review Board composition regularly 
to ensure the range and breadth of skills 
provided as a result of Director appointments 
remains appropriate for our business.
9
1
Female
Male
Board diversity
Board appointments are made on a merit 
basis and measured against objective criteria. 
Generally, we strive to attract a broad mix 
of individuals in order to create a diverse 
workgroup to support Acacia’s culture.    
7
3
Non-independent
Independent
Board independence
The Board believes that its current composition 
and its size are appropriate for the Company’s 
ongoing requirements.   
Board composition
During the year, we saw two changes to the 
Board of Directors, with Rick McCreary stepping 
down as a Non-Executive Director in August and 
David Hodgson not standing for re-election at 
the Annual General Meeting. We would like to 
thank both Rick and David for their contributions 
to the Company and wish them well for the 
future. Following the changes, the Board has 
ten members, including seven independent 
Non-Executive Directors, two Non-Executive 
Directors and one Executive Director.
Final dividend for 2014
To ensure that our dividend policy is more closely 
aligned with the cash generation of the business, 
we have amended our existing dividend policy 
such that it is now based on operational cash 
flow after sustaining capital and capitalised 
development but before expansion capital and 
dividends, rather than on net earnings.
The Board believes this metric more 
appropriately reflects Acacia’s and the wider 
market’s focus on cash flow generation as  
well as our commitment to ongoing capital 
returns to shareholders. The dividend payout 
ratio of 15 to 30% and the timing of the 
payment, being one third of the dividend as  
an interim dividend and the balance as a final 
dividend, remain unchanged. 
In line with the above change, the Board  
of Directors is pleased to recommend the 
payment of a final dividend for 2014 of US2.8 
cents per share, representing two thirds of the 
total dividend payable in respect of 2014 of 
US4.2 cents per share, an increase of 40% 
when compared to 2013. 
Outlook
The team continued to make significant changes 
to both the operations and the way they are  
run over 2014 to great effect and we are now 
closer to getting each of the assets working to 
its full potential. This step change has meant 
that the business is now set up to be able to 
thrive, even in a lower gold price environment.
Looking forward to 2015, we expect to  
see further improvements in our business  
as we continue to implement our strategy  
and optimise our high-quality asset base.  
With the team now in place continuing to  
drive operational performance I believe we  
are well positioned to become a leader in the 
African mining industry in the coming years. 
On behalf of the Board, I sincerely thank all 
Acacia employees for their hard work and 
dedication over the past year. I would also like 
to thank our shareholders for their continued 
support and commitment to the Company. 
Kelvin Dushnisky 
Chairman of the Board
Effective governance
Our Directors have considerable  
knowledge and experience of the  
mining industry and bring other  
relevant experience to the Board  
to assist Acacia in achieving its  
strategic goals.
46
For more information on Governance 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 7
