 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW 
2014 was a momentous year for Acacia  
as we started our journey to become  
a leading company in Africa.
Brad Gordon 
Chief Executive Officer
A track record of delivery
• Increasing production
• Reducing cost base
• Mines set up to perform
• Financial discipline
Introduction
I am delighted with the progress we have made 
across the business over the last 12 months. 
We continued to deliver operationally, with each 
quarter showing lower all-in sustaining costs 
(“AISC”). This discipline enabled us to return  
to free cash generation, for the first time since 
2011, which was one of our key objectives  
for the year. Our continued operational 
improvement was driven by a fresh strategic 
approach to running the Company focused  
on three key pillars: our business, our people 
and our relationships; whilst continuing to 
invest in our future. In order to further embed 
and reflect this approach, our shareholders 
voted to change the Company’s name to  
Acacia Mining from African Barrick Gold on  
26 November 2014. Our ambition is that, 
through the adoption of this new name,  
all of our people and external stakeholders 
become aligned with our new approach and 
goal of becoming a leading African mining 
company. We have already seen evidence  
that this is happening as the new approach  
is put into action. 
During 2014, we continued to enhance our  
mines and approved the development of an 
underground operation at North Mara which  
will significantly improve both the economics  
of the mine and the social situation in the area. 
We are continuing to turn Bulyanhulu into a 
world-class mine and during the year engaged 
contractors to accelerate underground 
development to provide future flexibility as  
well as pouring the first gold from the CIL Plant 
expansion at the mine. With a contrarian approach 
we are taking advantage of the dislocation in the 
market to expand our exploration footprint, and  
in November 2014 expanded into West Africa 
through an exciting and highly prospective 
exploration project in Burkina Faso.
Year in review
2014 was a successful year for Acacia,  
with production increasing again to 718,651 
ounces, 13% higher than 2013 and 4% above 
the upper end of our initial guidance range  
for the year. Production increased at all three 
mines with Bulyanhulu up 18% on 2013, 
Buzwagi up 15% on 2013 and delivering its 
highest ever year of gold production and  
North Mara remaining the standout performer, 
producing 273,803 ounces as the grade  
from the Gokona pit continued to be strong. 
On the cost side, we demonstrated consistent 
cost control and have now taken US$600 per 
ounce out of our quarterly AISC since Q3 2012. 
This translated into full year AISC of US$1,105 
per ounce sold, down 18% on 2013 and at the 
bottom of our guidance range. We delivered on 
our targeted cost savings of US$185 million set 
out in the Operational Review in 2013 and our 
continued focus is on removing further costs 
from the mining cycle. As a result of the cost 
savings, cash costs per ounce continued to 
come down and for 2014 we delivered cash cost 
per ounce sold of US$732, below our guidance 
range and 10% lower than 2013. 
20
For more information on our key 
performance indicators 
STRATEGIC REPORT
8 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 AISC and cash cost evolution 
(US$/oz) 
941
1,585
812
1,346
732
1,105
FY 13 FY 14 FY 12
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,800
1,600
Cash cost/oz AISC/oz
WHERE WE  
STAND TODAY...
During 2014, we produced 718,651 ounces of gold,  
a third consecutive year of increased production  
and an improvement of 13% on 2013.
Our AISC of US$1,105 per ounce sold was a  
reduction of 18% on the previous year and is  
now US$480 per ounce lower than 2012.
 71 9 k o z
Production
 U S $ 1 , 1 0 5 /o z 
AISC
 U S $2 9 0 m
Operating Cash Flow
 U S $2 9 4 m
Cash balance
Operational stability  
throughout the Group 
All three mines delivered 
increased production
Cost discipline embedded  
across the business 
Three successive years  
of reductions in AISC
Operating and capital  
controls enforced 
Cash flow driven by  
North Mara and Buzwagi 
Adding cash to the  
balance sheet 
Prioritising allocating  
capital to shareholders  
PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED
We returned to cash generation for the first  
time in three years during 2014, adding  
US$11 million to the balance sheet. Whilst  
this is positive, it does not reflect the scale of 
change that took place during the year, with 
positive cash flows of more than US$100 million 
before growth capital, dividends and Tulawaka 
sale costs. It should be noted that the average 
realised gold price of US$1,258 per ounce  
was over US$100 per ounce lower than 2013 
and over US$400 per ounce lower than 2012, 
years in which we did not generate positive  
free cash flow.
Total revenue for the year amounted to 
US$930.2 million, which was in line with  
2013 despite the lower average realised gold 
price as sale ounces for 2014 exceeded prior 
year sales by 9%. EBITDA increased by 5%  
to US$252.7 million in 2014 mainly due to a 
US$26.1 million reduction in gross direct mining 
costs, reflected in the 10% reduction of cash 
costs to US$732 per ounce sold. Earnings for  
the year were US$90 million, or US 22.1 cents 
per share. These were negatively impacted by 
significant revaluations of our indirect tax balance 
held in Tanzanian shillings and out of the money 
oil hedges, partially offset by deferred taxation 
changes at Buzwagi.
Our strategic approach
Our new approach to operating our assets  
has focused on three key pillars: our business, 
our people and our relationships; whilst continuing 
to invest in our future. 
Our business
We have made significant technical changes  
to our business, to ensure that each of our 
mines is correctly engineered and set up  
to deliver free cash flow. At Bulyanhulu we  
have changed to a mechanised mining method 
and are working to ensure that the mine 
delivers in line with its geological endowment. 
At North Mara we are moving forward with the 
development of an underground operation  
at one of the mine’s open pits which provides 
strong economic and social returns. At Buzwagi 
we have shortened the life of the mine so that 
we are mining only profitable ounces.
Our people
Our second pillar is our people, who are our 
core asset. We have significantly reduced  
the levels of management, restructured our 
corporate offices, commenced a new cultural 
transformation programme (Tufanikiwe 
Pamoja/Together we succeed) and introduced  
a behavioural safety programme (Tunajali/
WeCare). We are focused on creating a 
high-performance culture where our people  
are held accountable, but are given the tools  
to succeed. As part of this process we have 
already uncovered real talent within the 
workforce as well as seeing talented people 
returning to Acacia.
Our relationships
We have focused on improving our relationships 
with the communities around our mines and with 
the Government. We have engaged more actively 
with the community, the media and our broader 
stakeholders. We have also worked hard to 
strengthen our relationships with local and 
national authorities to ensure that we receive 
the appropriate support for our business in  
order for us to continue to be a key economic 
development driver for our host countries.
Our future
The fourth element of our strategy is to invest  
in our future. We believe that exploration is a 
significant driver of value for the business over 
the long term and now is the time to invest, 
which is a contrarian view to many in the  
market. As a result, we are focused on building  
a significant land package across Africa in the 
most geologically prospective belts to provide 
our exploration group the best opportunity  
to discover our next mines, as well as other 
opportunities to drive shareholder value over  
the long term.
Expanding our footprint
During 2014, we made our first entry into  
West Africa by entering into an earn-in 
agreement over the South Houndé Project in 
Burkina Faso. The earn-in allows us to earn  
an interest of up to 75% over a four year period 
in the highly prospective project which already 
includes a 1.5Moz Au Inferred resource. 
We also had a successful year within our existing 
exploration portfolio as the drilling programmes 
at Bulyanhulu led to the addition of 2.3Moz of 
gold into resources at existing reserve grades  
at very competitive costs. This is approximately 
half of our three year target to add 5Moz of gold 
resources at the mine as we look to ensure that 
production matches the geological endowment 
at Bulyanhulu. We also made good progress in 
Kenya with an extensive and successful aircore 
drilling programme across the land package which 
is now being followed up with deeper drilling. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
10 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 2
1
3
4
Our business 
Focused on free  
cash flow.
Our people 
Creating a high- 
performance culture.
Our relationships 
Becoming the  
partner of choice.
Our future 
Discovering  
our next mine.
Priorities for 2015 KPIs Progress in 2014 Strategic pillar
Key risk summary
• Converted to mechanised 
mining at Bulyanhulu 
• Approved underground 
operation at Gokona,  
North Mara
• Increased recoveries  
at Buzwagi by 5%
• Drilling led to inclusion  
of 2.3Moz of high grade 
resources at Bulyanhulu
• Successful early drilling  
in the West Kenya JV
• Entry into South Houndé JV  
in Burkina Faso
• Roll-out of designed cultural 
change programme (Tufanikwe 
Pamoja) 
• 28% reduction in international 
workforce 
• WeCare behavioural safety 
programme rolled out
• Increased dialogue with 
Government
• Group-wide community 
investment of approximately 
US$11 million
• Economic contribution of  
US$920 million
• Achieve reserve grade  
at Bulyanhulu and drive 
production growth
• Bring the underground 
operation at Gokona into 
commercial production
• Achieve name plate mill 
capacity at Buzwagi
• Progress West Kenya JV 
towards resource declaration
• Continue to delineate further 
resources at Bulyanhulu
• Continue to expand land 
package across Africa
• Embed new culture and 
desired behaviours within 
workforce
• Continue to drive reduction 
in international workforce
• Improve safety performance 
to world-class levels
• To limit the impact of the 
2015 General Elections  
in Tanzania on our 
operations
• To enhance community 
investment programmes  
to maximise benefits for 
communities
Gold production
(koz)
AISC
(US$/oz)
719
1,105
Safety – TRIFR
(Frequency Rate)
Localisation  
(% of workforce Tanzanian)
0.86
94.5%
Community spend
(US$m)
US$10.8m
Reserves and Resources
(Moz)
30.1
Strategic risks
Our principal strategic risks relate  
to the fact that all of Acacia’s 
revenue is derived from production 
at our three operations in Tanzania 
and thus our business could be 
materially affected by significant 
in-country developments. This is 
why we assess opportunities to 
diversify geographically through 
exploration and acquisition targets.
OUR STRATEGY...
Further detail on all of the above is provided on page 22 and as part of our principal risks and uncertainties on page 82. 
Financial risks
Our financial condition and 
performance may be materially 
affected by significant changes  
in commodity pricing, given the 
level of business dependency on 
the price of gold and, to a lesser 
extent, the price of copper and 
silver. Fluctuations in the pricing  
of these commodities, which are 
largely attributable to factors 
beyond Acacia’s control, will likely 
have a corresponding impact  
on Acacia’s financial condition, 
particularly in the context of  
rapid pricing fluctuations.
External risks
Like many businesses, Acacia’s 
operations and financial 
conditions are exposed to a 
number of external risks, such  
as political, regulatory and legal 
developments within our 
operating environment and 
regions, and wider factors such 
as occupational health and 
life-threatening diseases in 
regions in which we have, or may 
in the future have, a presence. 
Operational risks
By its nature, mining is subject  
to a number of hazards and  
risks. From Acacia’s perspective, 
we pay a particular attention  
to risks relating to security, 
trespass and vandalism, safety 
risks relating to mining operations,  
risks relevant to the continued 
enhancement of operational 
systems and equipment 
effectiveness, and environmental 
hazards and rehabilitation.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 11 0
150
300
450
600
750
900
FY12A
Production (LHS)
* 2015 estimates based on the mid point of production and AISC guidance ranges
FY13A FY14A FY15E* FY16E FY17E FY18E FY19E
Production (Koz)
AISC (US$/oz)
Five year production and AISC proﬁle set out in November 2014
 
AISC (RHS)
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW 
CONTINUED
OUR AMBITION...
To attract and retain the best people
To operate the best assets
To generate returns for all of our stakeholders
To be a partner of choice for the communities  
and Governments across the continent
STRATEGIC REPORT
12 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 T o help us achieve our plan, we are focused  
on maintaining and strengthening our position  
as a high-quality African gold producer in order  
to develop our business for the long term.
Safety
It is with sadness that I report that we 
experienced a fatality during the year,  
with Emmanuel Mrutu, an underground miner  
at Bulyanhulu, passing away after having  
been injured in a fall of ground incident at  
the mine in March. We fully investigated the 
incident and have implemented a number of 
recommendations to prevent re-occurrence. 
Safety is something I am passionate about  
and having been involved in underground mining 
for over 20 years, I am well aware of the risks. 
One of the key projects we started during the 
year was “Tunajali” or “WeCare”, a behavioural 
safety programme designed to embed the culture 
of safety, rather than just relying on checks and 
processes. This programme has now been rolled 
out across all of our operations and we expect  
this to have a positive impact on health and safety 
practices going forward. We continue to target  
zero injuries and have every person going home 
safely every day.
Indirect taxes
Further progress has been made with  
respect to the build-up of VAT, and the 
Company received total net refunds for 2014  
of approximately US$49 million. Total gross 
refunds received in 2014 amounted to 
US$132.8 million. We have also continued 
discussions with the Tanzanian Government  
on the establishment of an appropriate 
mechanism to safeguard the recoverability  
of VAT payments over the long term. These are 
centred around the establishment of an escrow 
account for VAT paid on domestic goods, 
similar to that currently used to provide for  
the refunding of VAT paid on imports, and our 
discussions are ongoing. As at 31 December 
2014, the outstanding amount relating to the 
total indirect tax receivable, not covered by the 
2011 Memorandum of Settlement, stood at 
US$46 million, roughly US$49 million lower 
than 31 December 2013.
Barrick Gold shareholding 
In March 2014, our majority shareholder 
Barrick Gold sold 10% of Acacia’s outstanding 
share capital to institutional shareholders.  
The placing was priced at 275 pence and 
reduced Barrick’s shareholding to 63.9%.  
This was a positive step by Barrick and 
increased our free float by around 40% which 
led to a subsequent increase in trading liquidity.
Outlook
The focus for 2015 is to continue to deliver  
free cash flow from our high-quality portfolio  
of mines as we work to enable them to deliver 
to their full geological potential. We have 
implemented changes across our business  
in order to continue to drive cost reductions 
and production growth. We are focused on 
continued delivery operationally in order to 
drive free cash flow, of which 15-30% is 
expected to be returned to shareholders via 
dividends, with the remainder appropriately 
allocated across further capital returns,  
organic growth or acquisition opportunities. 
We successfully overcame challenges to the 
business in 2014 and expect that 2015 will 
present similar challenges as we seek to 
successfully deliver on the turnaround at 
Bulyanhulu, move into commercial ore 
production from the Gokona Underground 
project at North Mara and ensure that we 
maintain our strengthened relationships  
with all stakeholders and the Government.
For 2015, we expect to see increased 
production of between 750,000-800,000 
ounces of gold. Production at each of the 
mines is expected to remain in line with  
Q4 2014 during the first quarter, with the  
bulk of the increase in production expected  
to be realised in the second half of the year. 
At the mine level, we expect a significant 
ramp up at Bulyanhulu as we move through 
the year, driven by an improvement in head 
grade, incremental production from the Upper 
East Zone and an increased contribution  
from the tailings re-treatment. At Buzwagi, 
production is expected to be broadly in line 
with 2014 as we continue to operate around 
the reserve grade of the asset. At North 
Mara, head grade is expected to decline 
marginally as the Gokona pit transitions from 
an open pit to underground operation, leading 
to an increased proportion of ore being 
sourced from the lower-grade Nyabirama pit 
during the year. This will be partially offset  
by the higher-grade ore from underground.  
As a result we expect to see a corresponding 
reduction in production at the mine. 
We are targeting further reductions to our unit 
costs in 2015, predominantly driven by the 
incremental production at Bulyanhulu, and 
estimate the cash cost per ounce for the year, 
including royalties, will be between US$695-725 
per ounce sold, a reduction of up to 5% on 2014. 
For 2015, we expect overall capital expenditure 
of between U$220 million – US$240 million,  
a further reduction on 2014 as we enforce 
stringent capital controls and move closer  
to industry average per ounce spend. We 
expect sustaining capital of US$90 million  
– US$100 million, inclusive of land purchases, 
as we scale up operations at Bulyanhulu and 
set up the long-term future at North Mara, with 
capitalised development, inclusive of deferred 
stripping, of US$125 million – US$135 million. 
This is driven by increased development 
activity at Bulyanhulu which commenced in 
2014 and is focused on opening additional 
mining areas, and at North Mara as work 
accelerates on the Gokona Underground 
project. The increase in spend is partially 
offset by a reduction in capital requirements  
at Buzwagi as it moves towards the end  
of mining activity. Expansionary capital of 
US$5 million relates to additional underground 
drilling at Bulyanhulu aimed at increasing the 
scale of the ore body as well as expansionary 
drilling at North Mara, predominantly under  
the Nyabirama pit.
As a result of the above, coupled with flat 
corporate administration costs, we estimate  
all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold for the  
year will be between US$1,050 – US$1,100, a 
reduction of up to 5% on 2014. The evolution of 
these costs during the year will be driven by our 
production profile and as a result we expect to 
see lower costs in the second half than the first.
Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues 
for their commitment, enthusiasm and hard 
work throughout what has been a transformative 
year for Acacia. I am delighted by our progress 
to date, and am driven by the opportunity to 
make this company a leader in Africa. I would 
also like to thank our Board for their support 
and guidance through the year and I am very 
much looking forward to 2015 and beyond.
Brad Gordon 
Chief Executive Officer
PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT
 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 13
