 Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 04
Directors’ report
Chief Executive’s statement 
Delivering the full potential of your business
Having addressed our legacy issues and completed 
our transformation into a UK-focused, high-quality 
Desserts and Food to Go producer, I believe we are 
now able to deliver the full potential of the business.
Our	investment	in	people,	processes	and	products	over	
the	last	two	years	means	we	are	in	a	strong	position	to	
meet	 the	 challenges	 and	 opportunities	 our	 chosen	 markets	
present.	This	has	been	demonstrated	by	our	improving	
performance	this	year,	which	was	driven	by	our	strong	
management	 teams	 and	 their	 ability	 to	 efficiently	 translate	
their	 market	 insights	 into	 attractive	 and	 innovative	 products	
that	 meet	 the	 demands	 of	 both	 customers	 and	 consumers.	
With	the	right	foundations	now	in	place,	I	believe	we	can	
consolidate	 our	 growth,	 optimise	 our	 return	 on	 investments	
and	raise	profitability	towards	industry	standard	margins.
As	 befits	 a	 business	 that	 is,	 in	 many	 ways,	 starting	 afresh,	
I	would	like	to	take	this	opportunity	to	lay	out	to	investors	
and	all	stakeholders	our	vision	for	the	future:	the	market	
opportunities	we	face;	the	strategy	that	will	enable	us	to	
address	 these	 opportunities;	 and	 the	 targets	 by	 which	 we	
will	measure	how	successful	we	are	in	doing	so.
Vision
Our	aim	is	to	be	the	most	respected	fresh	prepared 	
food	company	in	the	UK	for	innovation,	service	and	
quality	as	judged	by	our	customers,	suppliers,	
employees	and	shareholders.
Our opportunities and strengths
We	serve	large	and	growing	markets,	within	which	there	
are	 multiple	 opportunities	 and	 drivers	 of	 demand:	 for	 example,	
convenience,	 eating	 out	 of	 home	 and	 on	 the	 move,	 healthy	
eating,	and	café	culture.	By	investing	in	understanding	
consumers	and	innovating	to	create	a	regular	pipeline 	
of	new	products	we	are	able	to	benefit	from	this	growth.
Strong	 market	 positions	 give	 us	 the	 scale	 to	 ensure	 we	 can	
attract	 and	 retain	 highly	 capable	 teams	 and	 make	 efficient	
use	of	assets.	We	supply	over	65%	of	the	sandwiches	for	
our	largest	customer,	we	are	a	market-leading	supplier	of	
premium	desserts,	we	are	the	exclusive	producer	of	fresh	
Cadbury	chocolate	desserts	and	we	are	the	number	two	
supplier	in	prepared	salads.
We	service	customers	who	are	investing	in	growth 	
and	we	have	the	potential	to	increase	our	share	of 	
their	business	–	we	are	highly	focused	and	we	derive	
competitive	advantage	from	understanding	and	
consistently	meeting	our	customers’	needs.
We	have	an	efficient	capital	structure	that	will	support	
investment.	Our	return	on	investment	will	be	enhanced 	
by	significant	tax	assets	–	we	will	not	pay	tax	on	our	
profit	for	the	foreseeable	future.
We	have	an	experienced	and	capable	management 	
team	that	has	come	together	during	five	years	of	
restructuring,	turnaround	and	uncertainty	and,	having	
already	delivered	some	success,	is	appropriately	
incentivised	and	committed	to	drive	growth	further,	
unfettered	by	the	legacies	of	the	past.
Our	product	ranges	include	both	premium	and	value	
products	and	are	appropriately	tiered.	Our	flexibility 	
and	ability	to	innovate	mean	that	we	can	quickly 	
adapt	our	product	ranges	to	reflect	the	economic	
circumstances	of	consumers.
Performance review
Desserts
Our	Desserts	strategy	began	to	show	real	results 	
this	year.	New	and	refreshed	product	ranges	at	both 	
our	Minsterley	and	Evercreech	sites,	allied	with	the	
investments	we	have	made	in	the	business	over	the 	
last	two	years,	drove	a	stronger	performance	and	
established	Uniq	as	the	place	to	go	for	innovative	
high-quality	private	label	products.
Immediately	 following	 this	 success	 we	 were	 forced	 to	
push	through	a	price	increase	following	the	increase 	
in	cream	costs	which	have	risen	by	80%	over	the	last 	
two	years.	This	not	only	had	an	adverse	impact	on 	
some	customer	relationships	but	also	led	to	a	change 	
in	consumer	behaviour	as	higher	price	points	resulted 	
in	switching	to	other	products.	Following	the	year	end 	
we	were	notified	of	the	loss	of	£10m	of	Desserts	sales	
partly	as	a	result	of	these	factors	and	partly	reflecting 	
the	uncertainties	caused	by	the	pension	position. Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 05
Directors’ report
Chief Executive’s statement
Desserts review
On	the	back	of	the	disturbance	caused	by	the	price	
increase	and	as	a	result	of	the	decision	to	discontinue	
cottage	 cheese	 production	 at	 Evercreech	 we	 conducted	
a	comprehensive	review	of	our	Desserts	business. 	
Our	 Desserts	 business	 supplies	 four	 distinct	 sub-sectors	
of	the	desserts	market;	premium	desserts,	Cadbury	
chocolate	desserts,	yoghurt	and	everyday	desserts.	
Three	of	these	sub-sectors	are	either	profitable	or 	
on	track	to	achieve	profitability,	while	the	losses	are	
concentrated	in	everyday	desserts.	As	a	result	of 	
the	Desserts	review	we	have	approved	the	following	
profit	improvement	plans:
•		 To	use	the	space	freed	up	at	Evercreech	by	the	
discontinuance	of	cottage	cheese	production	to 	
invest	in	further	growing	our	premium	desserts	
business	–	which	grew	by	21%	in	2010.
•		 To	implement	ambitious	growth	plans	for	Cadbury	
desserts	for	which	we	have	identified	considerable	
potential.	We	need	to	secure	support	for	these 	
plans	from	our	partners.
•		 To	continue	to	build	our	capability	and	customer 	
base	 for	 our	 premium,	 differentiated	 yoghurt	 business	
at	Minsterley,	with	support	from	M&S.
•	 	 To	 implement	 a	 plan	 to	 significantly	 reduce	 the	 overheads	
and	costs	in	everyday	desserts	and	work	with	our	
customers	 to	 address	 the	 market	 needs	 while	 ensuring	
that	we	stop	the	losses	in	this	sub-sector.
Food to Go
At	 Northampton,	 we	 extended	 our	 ten-year	 growth	 record	
in	 2010,	 successfully	 implementing	 the	 increased	 sandwich	
volumes	won	from	M&S	supplier	consolidation.	New	and	
relaunched	product	ranges	helped	us	to	not	only	take	
advantage	 of	 growing	 niche	 markets	 such	 as	 healthy	 eating	
and	 café	 culture,	 but	 to	 win	 prestigious	 awards	 and	 further	
strengthen	our	relationship	with	our	principal	customer,	
M&S.	 Northampton	 continues	 to	 set	 the	 standard	 for	 lean,	
flexible	 and	 creative	 processes,	 supported	 by	 both	 strong	
management	and	a	fully	engaged	workforce.	In	Salads,	
our	Spalding	site	increased	volumes	as	we	took	on	last	
year’s	 new	 business	 wins,	 helping	 to	 drive	 efficiencies	 while	
successfully	maintaining	exceptionally	high	quality	and	
service	 levels.	 Although	 oversupply	 in	 the	 market	 continued	
to	 squeeze	 margin,	 the	 Salads	 business	 remains	 well	 positioned	
to	benefit	strongly	from	any	supplier	consolidation.
Geoff Eaton
Chief Executive
26	 April	 2011
Our strategy 
We will achieve growth by:
•	  Empowering 	 our	 businesses	 so	 that	 they	 have	 the	 speed
and	flexibility	to	meet	the	needs	of	our	customers	in	a	
fast-moving	and	competitive	market-place.	At	the	same	
time,	 we	 will	 leverage	 our	 combined	 scale	 to	 support	 our	
businesses	and	enhance	our	growth	opportunities
•	 	 Creating	new	opportunities	by	delivering	outstanding	
service	with	the	highest	standards	of	 quality	and	
efficiency	day	in	day	out
•	 	 Meeting	the	needs	of	our	customers	and	consumers 	
through	 innovation	that	satisfies	the	demands	of
growing	and	ever-changing	markets
•	  Investing 	in	our	people,	processes,	equipment	and
facilities	and	continuously	improving	everything	we	do
•	 	 Working	in	 partnership	with	our	key	suppliers	and	
customers	to	achieve	the	most	effective	supply	chain	
capable	 of	 delivering	 added	 value	 to	 our	 shared	 consumers
Our targets and key performance indicators:
•	 	 We	aim	to	deliver	organic	growth	of	over	5%	a	year	
•	 	 Our	trading	profit	margin	should	deliver	an	overall 	
return	on	sales	of	over	5%
•	 	 Our	return	on	investment	should	deliver	double-digit 	
returns	 and	 exceed	 our	 weighted	 average	 cost	 of	 capital
•	 	 We	will	adopt	a	progressive	dividend	policy	with	a 	
long-term	target	dividend	cover	of	three	times
•	 	 We	will	maintain	an	appropriate	capital	structure 	
with	total	net	debt	no	more	than	three	times	EBITDA
Our key actions to deliver our strategy:
•	 We	 will	 continue	 to	 drive	 growth	 in	 our	 Sandwich	 business	
•	 	 We	will	consolidate	our	recovery	in	Salads	and	then 	
build	our	capabilities	for	long-term	growth
•	 	 We	will	build	on	our	successful	innovation	in	premium	
desserts	and	yoghurt,	seek	to	implement	an	ambitious	
growth	strategy	for	Cadbury	chocolate	desserts	and	
significantly	reduce	costs	and	improve	efficiency	to 	
stop	the	losses	in	everyday	desserts
