 Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010 02
Directors’ report
I am pleased to report a continued improvement in 
the performance of the business, with an operating 
profit before significant items of £4.1m in 2010 compared 
to a loss of £1.9m in 2009. Turnover showed good 
growth, with sales of £312m representing an increase 
of nearly 7% on 2009’s sales figure of £292m (adjusted 
for 53rd week).
Although	 these	 figures	 provide	 strong	 evidence	 that	 the	
board’s	strategy	of	transforming	the	company	into	a	
high-quality	 UK-focused	 private	 label	 business	 has	 been	
successful,	it	became	increasingly	clear	during	2010	that	
the	speed	and	scale	of	our	efforts	could	not	meet	the	
growing	demands	of	our	pension	liabilities.	The	board	
therefore	continued	to	seek	a	solution	to	our	pension	
funding	situation	and	on	9	February	2011,	the	company	
reached	agreement	with	the	Trustee	of	the	Uniq	Pension	
Scheme	on	the	terms	of	a	restructuring	of	the	company.	
This	 released	 the	 company	 from	 its	 obligations	 to	 the	 defined	
benefit	section	of	the	Pension	Scheme	in	exchange	for	a	
90.2%	 equity	 stake	 in	 the	 company,	 with	 current	 shareholders	
retaining	a	9.8%	stake	in	the	company.
While	 the	 context	 for	 this	 decision	 is	 set	 out	 in	 more	 detail	
below,	the	outcome	is	that	Uniq	can	now	look	forward	to	
a	 future	 in	 which	 its	 management	 can	 develop	 the	 potential	
of	its	businesses	without	the	constraints	imposed	by	our	
pension	situation.	Although 	 the	 board	 understands	 that	
this	 will	 have	 caused	 shareholders	 considerable	 concern,	
we	 are	 confident	 that	 our	 action	 is	 in	 their	 best	 interests	
and	 the	 best	 long-term	 interests	 of	 all	 stakeholders.
Uniq	 has	 a	 strong,	 well-run	 business	 delivering	 the	 quality,	
innovation	and	consistency	that	our	customers	demand,	
in	markets	that	offer	multiple	opportunities.	As	Chief	
Executive	Geoff	Eaton	outlines	in	his	statement	on	pages	
4	 and	 5,	 we	 believe	 that	 Uniq	 is	 now,	 finally,	 in	 a	 position	
to	capitalise	on	these	strengths.
The context for restructuring
Uniq	 evolved	 out	 of	 the	 Unigate	 Group	 which,	 at	 its	 peak	
during	 the	 1980s,	 was	 a	 multinational	 conglomerate	 with	 over	
30,000	 employees	 in	 the	 UK,	 Europe	 and	 North	 America.	
Unigate	 had	 a	 very	 large	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 plan	 with	
over	 40,000	 members	 (including	 active	 members,	 deferred	
members	 and	 pensioners)	 in	 the	 UK.	 When	 Unigate	 sold	 its	
‘flagship’	 dairy	 business	 in	 2000,	 the	 remaining	 business	
changed	its	name	to	Uniq	plc.	Under	the	terms	of	this	
transaction	 Uniq	 plc	 retained	 the	 responsibility	 for	 members	
of	the	dairy	business	in	the	Uniq	Pension	Fund.
In	May	2001,	Uniq	demerged	its	logistics	business,	
Wincanton	plc.	The	Uniq	Pension	Fund	was	split	roughly	
in	half	and	Uniq	was	left	with	a	pension	scheme	(known	
as	the	Uniq	Pension	Scheme)	of	approximately	21,000	
members	but	with	a	much	smaller	business,	in	terms 	
of	assets,	with	which	to	support	the	pension	scheme.
Board strategy
In	 2006,	 the	 board	 recognised	 that	 Uniq	 was	 not	 a	 ‘pan-
European	 group’	 but	 a	 number	 of	 separate	 businesses	
with	 distinct	 markets	 and	 challenges.	 The	 board	 adopted	
a	 strategy	 intended	 to	 transform	 the	 business	 and	 address	
the	 pension	 deficit.	 Through	the	sale	of	the	Belgian	salads	
business	in	2006	and	the	French	St	Hubert	spreads	
business	in	2007	(total	proceeds	£288m),	the	group 	
was	able	to	set	aside	£87m	in	a	secure	account 	
to	offset	substantially 	 the	 deficit	 at	 that	 time	 in	 its	 main	
UK	 Pension	Fund. 	 The	 remaining	 cash	 repaid	 debt	 and	
provided	 funds	to	support	the	recovery	of	the	retained	
businesses,	which	were	at	that	time	incurring 	
substantial	losses.
Alignment	 of	 the	 group’s	 businesses	 with	 their	 customers	
and	markets	was	tackled	through	decentralising	the	
organisation	to	allow	management	to	act	faster	and 	
more	effectively.	Major	milestones	were	achieved	in 	
each	of	the	group’s	divisions,	with	recovery	evident	
throughout	the	business.
Pension funding 
However,	turbulence	in	world	financial	markets	during	
2008	resulted	in	a	sharp	increase	in	the	UK	pension	
deficit.	The	need	to	strengthen	the	group’s	businesses	
became	more	urgent.	Accordingly,	the	board	decided 	
to	modify	its	recovery	plan	and,	in	particular,	pursue	
consolidation	opportunities	in	France	and	Northern	
Europe	–	to	create	value	through	joint	venture	or	sale 	
of	those	businesses	–	and	focus	its	resources	on	
strengthening	its	businesses	in	the	UK.
Chairman’s statement
Foundations for the future 03
Directors’ report
Chairman’s statement
Uniq	Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2010
The	 businesses	were	sold	in	early	2010	and	the	proceeds	
from	their	sale	were	used	to	support	the	growth	of	the	
UK	business	and	to	assist	the	group	in	its	triennial	
funding	discussions	with	the	Pension	Scheme	Trustee.
Pension liabilities
On	 an	 IAS	 19	 accounting	 valuation	 basis,	 the	 pension	 deficit	
as	 at	 31	 December	 2010	 was	 £142.1m.	 On	 a	 buy-out	 basis	
(which	 assumes	 the	 liabilities	 have	 been	 bought	 out	 by	 an	
insurance	 company),	 the	 net	 deficit	 was	 £430m.
The	 scale	 of	 this	 deficit	 negatively	 impacted	 the	 market	
value	 of	 the	 company.	 The	 board	 therefore	 considered	 all	
possible	 funding	 options	 for	 the	 Pension	 Scheme,	 all	 of	
which	 would	 have	 involved	 a	 fundamental	 impact	 on	 the	
long-term	 future	 of	 the	 group	 and	 on	 shareholder	 value.
As	 part	 of	 triennial	 scheme-specific	 funding	 discussions,	
which	 began	 in	 March	 2009	 between	 the	 company	 and	 the	
Trustee,	 a	 long-term	 funding	 proposal	 was	 developed	 and	
was	 described	 in	 last	 year’s	 annual	 report	 and	 accounts.	
It	 was	 rejected	 by	 the	 Pensions	 Regulator	 on	 16	 July	 2010.
Restructuring solution
On	9	February	2011,	the	company	reached	agreement	
with	the	Trustee,	the	Pensions	Regulator	and	the	Pension	
Protection	Fund	on	the	terms	of	a	restructuring	of	the	
company.	This	Scheme	of	Arrangement	was	approved 	
by	the	shareholders	on	25	February	2011	and	sanctioned	
by	the	Court	on	18	March	2011.	In	exchange	for	a	90.2%	
equity	stake	in	the	company,	with	current	shareholders	
retaining	a	9.8%	stake	in	the	company,	and	a	final	
payment	of	£14m	to	the	Pension	Fund,	the	restructuring	
released	the	company	from	its	obligations	to	the	defined	
benefit	section	of	the	Uniq	Pension	Fund.	Following	this	
restructuring	the	company	successfully	applied	for	the	
shares	to	be	relisted	on	AIM	as	from	1	April	2011.
Dividend
The	board	has	decided	that	it	is	not	appropriate	to	pay 	
a	dividend	to	shareholders	for	2010	(2009:	£nil).	However,	
following	the	pension	restructuring	the	Directors	intend 	
to	pay	dividends	when	it	is	appropriate	to	do	so.	
Outlook
It	is	a	great	credit	to	Chief	Executive	Geoff	Eaton	and 	
his	management	team	that,	despite	a	period	of	such	
uncertainty	 and	 the	 challenge	 of	 creating	 and	 implementing	
the	pension	solution,	they	have	continued	to	focus	on,	
and	achieve,	the	transformation	of	the	business.	
Profitability	 has	 been	 restored,	 strong	 customer	 relationships	
established	and	the	flexible,	innovative	processes	that	
our	markets	demand	are	in	place	and	already	beginning	
to	show	results.	In	spite	of	this,	the	new	year	has	thrown 	
up	further	challenges	with	further	raw	material	price	
inflation,	increasingly	intense	competition	and	loss	of	
business	 in	 Desserts	 being	 notified	 before	 the	 implementation	
of	the	pension	solution.	I	would	like	to	congratulate	all	
management	and	staff	at	Uniq	for	their	unstinting	efforts,	
which	 we	 fully	 expect	 to	 maintain	 the	 improved	 performance	
of	your	company	despite	the	challenging	environment.	
Furthermore,	the	comprehensive	review	of	our	Desserts	
business,	announced	in	January,	has	been	completed	
and	 a	 plan	 has	 been	 approved	 that	 is	 expected	 to	 deliver	
sustainable	improvement	in	profitability.
John Warren
Chairman 
26	April	2011
“ We are confident that our 
action is in the long-term 
interests of all stakeholders 
and will give Uniq the 
opportunity to repay 
their commitment.”
