 Corporate governance report
Strong governance is 
business as usual at 
United Utilities
Quick facts
• The Chairman met the independence criteria as set out in the Code 
when he was appointed to the board
• The Code requires that half of the board is made up of independent 
non-executive directors (the test excludes the Chairman). At United 
Utilities, ﬁve out of seven directors (which excludes the Chairman) 
are independent non-executive directors
• The company secretary attends all board and committee meetings 
and advises the Chairman on governance matters. The company 
secretariat team provides administrative support
• All directors are subject to annual election at the AGM held in 
July. Following the completion of the annual evaluation process all 
the non-executive directors were considered by the board to be 
independent and making a valuable and effective contribution to 
the board. As a result, the board recommends that shareholders 
vote those wishing to stand for a further term back into ofﬁce at the 
forthcoming AGM
Schedule of matters reserved for the board - 
corporate.unitedutilities.com/corporate-governance
FRC 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code - 
frc.co.uk/corporate-governance
Dr John McAdam
Chairman
“ We have aimed to adopt 
a more transparent 
approach to this year’s 
annual report. ”
Dear Shareholder
UK Corporate Governance Code 
This is our ﬁrst annual report whereby 
we are reporting in line with the 
2012 version of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (which incorporates 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2010 with which we are required to 
comply under the FRC Listing Rules)
and is referred to in this report as ‘the 
Code’ . I can conﬁrm that the company 
has complied fully with the principles 
and spirit of the Code during the year. 
As a board, we aspire to apply the 
highest standards of governance to our 
conduct around the board table and we 
strive to ensure that these standards 
are applied by the executive team and 
cascaded throughout the group. Strong 
governance is business as usual at 
United Utilities.
As last year, we have used the key 
principles of the Code - of leadership, 
effectiveness, accountability, 
remuneration and relations with 
shareholders to provide the structure 
for this report.
Over the past year, there has been 
considerable change in the areas of 
governance and narrative reporting, 
and as a board we have been monitoring 
these developments. We have aimed 
to adopt a more transparent approach 
to this year’s annual report and would 
welcome feedback as to whether you, 
as a reader, feel that this has been 
achieved. 
54
United Utilities Group PLC
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 On the board’s agenda
One  of  the board’s most important roles 
is to provide strategic leadership and 
direction throughout the development 
of the ﬁve-year business plan for 
2015–20 which was submitted to Ofwat 
in December 2013. The plan will be 
ﬁnalised and agreed later in the year. 
The December plan sought to meet 
the needs of all our stakeholders by 
balancing affordability, customers’ 
preferences and priorities, while 
ensuring we meet our statutory 
obligations. Discussions continue with 
Ofwat and through the process we 
will agree a plan that strikes the right 
balance between customer service, 
the environment and customer bills. 
We will work with the regulator and our 
Customer Challenge Group to achieve 
the right balance of risks and rewards 
against delivery of the outcomes that 
customers value most.
The emerging challenges for the board 
to address during the year included the 
risks posed by cyber crime and shale 
gas extraction and hydraulic fracturing 
(‘fracking’), two very different but topical 
challenges. Cyber crime is high on the 
agenda for the UK Government, and our 
strategy to protect our business will 
be aligned with the government’s plan. 
We have been working to understand 
the impact of fracking on our business 
and the services we provide to our 
customers. A statement on fracking can 
be found on our website at 
corporate.unitedutilities.com/
documents/uu-shale-gas-statement.
pdf
Board changes and succession
During the year we welcomed Mark Clare 
to the board as an independent non-
executive director. Mark’s biographical 
details can be found on page 56, his 
considerable experience in ﬁnance 
and his time spent in the regulated 
environment of the energy industry, and 
more latterly as CEO of a FTSE house 
building/construction company, are 
directly relevant to our business.
Nick Salmon is due to stand down at 
the AGM in July, after around nine years 
serving on the board and, since 2007, 
as the company’s senior independent 
director. 
We wish him well for the future and 
thank him for his extensive contribution 
to the board and the group. Mark 
Clare will be appointed as the senior 
independent director on Nick Salmon 
leaving the board.
Since 2011, the boards of UUG and 
UUW (our principal operating subsidiary 
which provides water and wastewater 
services to our customers) have had 
the same serving directors on the 
board, which we feel increases the 
efﬁciency and effectiveness of our 
corporate governance structure. The 
only exception is Steven Fraser, who 
was appointed as a director of UUW on 
1 April 2013. Steven is the managing 
director of UUW’s wholesale business, 
and is responsible for the day-to-
day operational activities of UUW . 
His appointment provides the UUW 
board with additional insight into the 
operational challenges the company 
faces.
United Utilities has a simple corporate 
structure and its governance processes 
address Ofwat’s published principles 
on board leadership, transparency 
and governance. Our statement can 
be found on our website at corporate.
unitedutilities.com/corporate-
governance
As Chairman, and leader of the board, it 
is my responsibility to ensure we have 
effective governance, and to do this 
we need to have the right atmosphere 
of openness and trust around the 
board table in order that queries and 
concerns can be raised and addressed 
in a constructive way. In our annual 
board evaluation, I am pleased to report 
that the views of my fellow directors 
reﬂected that we do indeed have a 
positive atmosphere around our board 
table and that issues are freely raised 
and addressed.
We have a comprehensive programme 
of events where our CEO, CFO and 
investor relations manager meet with 
investors and Sara Weller, the chair 
of our remuneration committee, has 
been keen to engage with shareholders 
to gain their views on our executive 
remuneration framework. As the board, 
we have an ‘open door’ policy and would 
encourage shareholders and investors 
to contact us if we can help in any way – 
please email us at 
secretariat@uuplc.co.uk.
Dr John McAdam 
Chairman
Current board members: 
Board split 
John McAdam (Chairman)
Steve Mogford
Russ Houlden
Catherine Bell
Mark Clare
Brian May
Nick Salmon 
Sara Weller
Biographies of the directors are 
on pages 56 and 57
55
www.unitedutilities.com
Stock Code: UU.
Shareholder information
Strategic report
Financial statements Governance
Strategic report
Financial statements Governance
 Governance > Corporate governance report > Letter from the Chairman
