 United Utilities Group PLC
40
22027.04      30/05/2013      Proof 5
Corporate governance report
Dear shareholder
We have continued our strategic 
journey during the year towards 
becoming a leading North West service 
provider and one of the best UK water 
and wastewater companies through 
the concentration of our efforts on 
improving the service we provide to our 
customers.
Licence changes
It has been an eventful year. As a 
board we have been fully engaged in 
the discussions relating to Ofwat’s 
proposals to make some fundamental 
changes to the licence under which 
UUW provides water and wastewater 
services to our customers in the North 
West of England. Decisions such as 
these have a long-term impact on 
our group affecting our 2015–2020 
regulatory period and beyond. In 
particular, a number of additional 
meetings of the UUW board were 
arranged beyond its normal schedule 
of meetings, where the board spent 
a considerable amount of time 
considering these changes for our 
group, our customers, our investors and 
our wider stakeholders. 
The UUW board also met with  
Regina Finn, chief executive officer 
of Ofwat, in November 2012 to 
discuss the licence proposals with 
her. This reflected the constructive 
approach adopted by all parties to 
resolve the issue, and we believe the 
outcome delivered a positive result 
for our customers, our group and our 
stakeholders.
 
Board composition
In my role as Chairman of the board,  
I am responsible for ensuring that the 
directors are people with a diverse 
range of backgrounds and skills and 
that they all contribute to our decision 
making. I believe the composition of 
the board reflects this and that, both 
individually and collectively, we act 
with integrity and bring our individual 
viewpoints to board discussions so 
that we attain the highest standards of 
governance. Thereafter, I believe these 
standards are cascaded throughout the 
business. This year’s board evaluation 
exercise again reconfirmed the 
positive outcome observed by last 
year’s external evaluator and further 
demonstrated that the board functions 
effectively, although there were some 
suggestions where improvements could 
be made, details of which are given on 
page 49. 
Our view of the business
A major part of our role as a board 
is to be responsible for providing 
constructive challenges to the 
executive team and its approach to 
implementing our strategic objectives 
and, in holding them to account for 
their actions. We have had a number 
of opportunities during the year to 
meet with members of the executive 
team and other senior managers which 
enables board members to develop a 
better understanding of the challenges 
they face in implementing the 
business’s strategic objectives. Such 
meetings also enable board members 
to get to know senior managers 
considered to be potential successors 
for key roles and to form an opinion of 
these candidates for themselves. 
Board changes
Paul Heiden will retire at the 
forthcoming AGM after over seven 
years’ service, for many of which 
Paul has chaired the audit and risk 
committee. Our succession plan 
resulted in the recruitment of  
Brian May to the board as an 
independent non-executive  
director with effect from  
1 September 2012. Consequently, 
Brian will replace Paul as chair of the 
audit and risk committee (and as our 
financial expert on the committee 
as required by the Code). I would 
like to thank Paul for his extensive 
contribution to the board and for his 
leadership of the committee, and we 
wish him well for the future.
Sara Weller, who joined the board 
on 1 March 2012, presents her first 
remuneration report on pages 54–68. 
Under Sara’s guidance, the committee 
has reviewed the remuneration 
policy, and in particular, the long 
term share plans we have in place to 
incentivise our executive team and 
senior managers. As a consequence, 
the board is recommending that a new 
long term executive share plan should 
be approved by shareholders, and a 
resolution is contained in the notice 
of annual general meeting along with 
explanatory notes. 
If you are able to attend, I look forward 
to seeing you at the AGM in July 
along with my fellow directors. In the 
meantime, we are keen to engage with 
our shareholders and stakeholders and 
we would welcome your thoughts and 
feedback on this annual report. Please 
email secretariat@uuplc.co.uk and let 
us know what you think.
Dr John McAdam 
Chairman
Dr John McAdam, Chairman Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 unitedutilities.com
Shareholder Information Financial Statements
22027.04      30/05/2013      Proof 5
41
Business Review Governance
During the year, we have fully complied with the ‘Principles 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010’ (‘principles’ and 
‘code’ respectively) and have measured ourselves and reported 
against these principles and the requirements of the code in 
this annual report. On the following pages, 41–68, you will find 
information on what the board has been doing during the year 
in terms of these code principles. 
Code principle: Leadership
Overview of the board
Given the wide-ranging nature of the business activities which 
are needed in a water and wastewater service provider and the 
complex regulated environment in which it operates the skills 
and experience of the board of directors need to be similarly 
diverse and varied. Nearly all our directors have experience 
of working in a regulated environment, either as part of the 
regulatory body or the regulated organisation, spanning 
government departments, financial services, water, electricity 
and telecoms. The directors have also spent their careers 
in a diverse range of commercial environments including 
chemicals, defence, engineering, telecoms and retail and many 
individuals have worked both in the UK and internationally.
With the exception of the Chairman, for whom under the code 
the test is not appropriate, all of our non-executive directors 
are determined to be independent in accordance with the code 
and free from any business or other relationship which could 
compromise their independent judgement. Should they need it, 
the non-executive directors are supported in their role by the 
ability to seek independent specialist advice.
With the exception of Paul Heiden, all directors will be offering 
themselves for reappointment or election at the forthcoming 
AGM in July 2013 in accordance with the code. As confirmed 
by the board evaluation exercise, the board fully endorses 
the reappointment of the board members at the AGM, all of 
whom are considered to be making a valuable and effective 
contribution to the board. The board also supports the 
election of Brian May who was appointed as a director during 
the year. The board recommends that shareholders vote all the 
directors back into office at the forthcoming AGM.
Our board is responsible for setting the strategy of the 
group and has responsibility for the internal control 
systems operated across the group, allowing assessment 
and management of the key issues and risks impacting the 
business. The formal schedule of matters reserved for the 
board (available on our website) sets out its responsibilities 
including approving the company’s overall strategic direction, 
values and standards, reviewing management performance 
and assessing whether the company has the necessary 
financial and human resources in place to meet its objectives. 
It also reviews the company’s business planning, its approach 
to risk management and the development of policies. 
Decisions are taken with a view to promoting the long-term 
success of the company and to ensure that the principal 
goal of the company is to create shareholder value, whilst 
having regard to our other stakeholders represented by our 
employees, customers, regulators, suppliers, the environment 
and the community in which we operate and serve. 
Conflicts of interest 
The company’s articles of association contain provisions which permit unconflicted directors to authorise conflict situations. 
Each director is required to notify the Chairman and/or company secretary of any potential conflict, and the board reviews 
the position of each director annually.
Pictured: Dr John McAdam (far left) and Steve 
Mogford on a board visit to Liverpool wastewater 
treatment works. The site is undergoing a  
£200 million expansion to handle up to 11,000  
litres of wastewater every second, serving a 
population of more than 600,000 people and 
industry. The project is set to create 350 jobs  
and is scheduled for completion in 2016.
