 United Utilities Group PLC
02
22027.04      30/05/2013      Proof 5
Chairman’s and Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Strategy
We are pleased to report that we 
have made good progress during the 
year towards our vision of becoming 
a leading North West service provider 
and one of the best UK water and 
wastewater companies, as we aim to 
deliver the best service to customers, 
at the lowest sustainable cost and in a 
responsible manner. We have delivered 
a third year-on-year improvement in 
customer satisfaction, underpinned by 
good operational and environmental 
performance and remain on course to 
deliver our regulatory outperformance 
targets. We do, however, recognise that 
we have more to do to achieve our vision 
and we see considerable opportunities 
to deliver further improvements.
The UK Government’s reform agenda 
for our sector is providing new 
opportunities for the company. The 
adoption of private sewers, which almost 
doubled the size of our wastewater 
network, went well. In anticipation of 
this change we revised our approach to 
management of our wastewater network 
and this has delivered higher levels 
of customer satisfaction at a slightly 
lower cost than originally estimated. We 
are also active in the expanding retail 
water market for business customers; 
we have won customers in Scotland 
and have a significant pipeline of 
further opportunities. Water and sludge 
trading are both opportunities that we 
are exploring with our regulators in 
discussions aimed at developing ideas 
tabled under the UK Government’s 
reform agenda.
The North West presents a unique set of 
challenges for the company, containing 
areas of outstanding natural beauty, a 
long coastline supporting tourism and 
a significant proportion of the UK’s 
remaining industrial base. Our plans 
must maintain a challenging balance 
between the needs of our customers 
and the natural environment. We 
recognise that we operate in a region 
characterised by high levels of socio-
economic deprivation and that our 
future plans must take account of our 
customers’ ability to pay a fair price 
for our services, particularly in these 
difficult economic times. Increasingly, 
our plans will be delivered through 
partnerships such as ‘Turning Tides’; a 
partnership between the company, the 
Environment Agency, local authorities 
and other stakeholders to address 
improvements in North West bathing 
water quality to meet new European 
standards.
A fair deal for customers
We have continued to invest in our 
people, assets, systems and processes 
to improve the service our customers 
can expect of us. We expect to 
reinvest around £200 million of capital 
expenditure outperformance over the 
2010‒2015 period for the benefit of our 
customers and the environment.
We have implemented active pressure 
management in our water network to 
reduce bursts and leakage, helping us 
to meet or outperform our leakage 
target again. Should we have a burst, the 
additional investment completed during 
the year in strategic mains refurbishment 
and connectivity has improved the 
capability of our water network to 
maintain supply. We have again achieved 
a high level of water quality compliance 
throughout the year.
Whilst the North West did not 
experience the hosepipe bans seen 
elsewhere in the country last spring, 
rainfall across the region was much 
lower than expected. We were able 
to benefit from our investment in an 
integrated regional water network to 
keep customers supplied throughout the 
dry period. We are considering extending 
our integrated network to include 
the north west of Cumbria thereby 
improving security of supply to this area.
In contrast, the latter half of 2012 was 
characterised by a large number of 
exceptionally high rainfall events and 
this proved to be a testing time for 
our wastewater assets. We continued 
to invest heavily in schemes designed 
to mitigate the risk of flooding of our 
customers’ homes and to improve river 
and bathing water quality, such as our 
£100 million+ project in Preston. Our 
operational and environmental focus is 
delivering results and we were pleased 
to achieve our best performance for 
Dr John McAdam, Chairman
Steve Mogford, Chief Executive Officer
“We have delivered 
a third year-on-year 
improvement in 
customer satisfaction, 
underpinned by 
good operational 
and environmental 
performance and 
remain on course to 
deliver our regulatory 
outperformance 
targets”
Planning for the future
Y ou can read more about our 
plans for the next 25 years 
by visiting our website 
unitedutilities.com/future Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 unitedutilities.com
Governance Shareholder Information Business Review Financial Statements
22027.04      30/05/2013      Proof 5
03
many years in the Environment Agency’s 
operational performance metrics. Our 
wastewater network will continue to 
benefit from significant investment 
going forward as we adapt to weather 
patterns likely to result from climate 
change. 
The North West contains over half of 
the one per cent most deprived areas in 
England and we recognise the financial 
difficulties many of our customers 
face. We are supporting customers in 
these tough economic times through 
a portfolio of measures to help those 
struggling to pay their water bills, 
including £5 million per year investment 
in our charitable trust. Our support 
measures and emphasis on helping 
customers back onto manageable 
payment plans has enabled us to contain 
levels of bad debt and so decrease the 
cost burden on all our customers. 
We have continued to develop our 
systems and processes to deliver the 
experience our customers seek when 
they need to contact us, including multi-
channel contact centre technology. 
We have delivered a number of 
improvements throughout the year and 
were pleased to see this reflected in a 
significant improvement in customer 
satisfaction for the third successive 
year. 
We were also pleased to see the results 
of our brand tracker survey which rated 
us highly against 10 leading service 
providers operating in the North West. 
Notwithstanding good progress, we 
could have done more to prevent the 
need for unnecessary contacts from our 
customers and we will continue in our 
efforts to improve further our service 
and responsiveness. 
Investing for performance
Capital investment in our assets was 
accelerated in 2012/13 to deliver a 
number of beneficial projects early 
and reduce the risk associated with 
projects due to be delivered in the 
last two years of the 2010‒15 period. 
Investment of £787 million in the year is 
up on last year’s spend of £680 million. 
We have now invested over £2 billion 
in the first three years of the 2010‒15 
period, and we remain on track to deliver 
our planned five-year investment 
programme.
 
Our investment programme represents 
a significant contribution to the 
North West economy. Our capital 
investment of around £3.5 billion 
over the 2010‒15 period provides 
an estimated £7 billion boost to the 
region’s economy, supporting 9,000 jobs, 
and securing a legacy for the future. 
As we look ahead to the next price 
review, we are actively engaging with 
our customers and stakeholders to help 
address their needs and to shape our 
plans for the period 2015 to 2020.
Attractive deal for shareholders
Good underlying operational 
performance, effective capital 
programme delivery and improving 
levels of customer satisfaction are 
delivering value for our shareholders. 
Revenue increased by 4.5 per cent to  
£1.64 billion and underlying operating 
profit was up 2.2 per cent to  
£607 million in the continuing difficult 
economic conditions. Underlying 
earnings per share increased by 
11 per cent to 39.1 pence. We remain 
on track to deliver operating 
expenditure outperformance against 
the regulatory allowance.
We are committed to delivering our 
dividend policy of RPI+2 per cent  
per annum through to at least 
2015 while delivering significant 
improvements for customers and the 
environment. In line with this policy, the 
board is proposing a final dividend of 
22.88 pence per ordinary share making 
a total of 34.32 pence per share for the 
2012/13 financial year. This represents 
an increase of 7.2 per cent compared 
with last year. The final dividend is 
expected to be paid to shareholders on  
2 August 2013. 
A changing regulatory landscape
The UK Government published a draft 
Water Bill in July 2012, proposing 
the expansion of retail competition 
and the introduction of wholesale, or 
upstream, competition. We, along with 
various interested parties, submitted 
our response to these proposals to the 
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 
(Efra) Select Committee and we await 
publication of the UK Government’s 
Water Bill with interest. 
Following a period of constructive 
dialogue with Ofwat, we were pleased to 
accept the revised licence modification 
proposals which were published by the 
regulator on 21 December 2012. These 
revised licence proposals focus on 
the changes required to facilitate the 
forthcoming 2014 price review (PR14).
Ofwat published its PR14 methodology 
consultation in January 2013 and we 
submitted our response to Ofwat in 
March. 
Pictured: 
Jane Hancock, graduate civil engineer. Our four-
year scheme helps Jane gain valuable experience 
in the design and construction of our water and 
wastewater assets. United Utilities Group PLC
04
22027.04      30/05/2013      Proof 5
Chairman’s and Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
In preparation for this more competitive 
environment and to align with the 
separated price controls, with effect 
from April 2013 we have revised our 
structure and activities around three 
business areas: Wholesale; Domestic 
Retail; and Business Retail.
Our employees
The people in United Utilities are key 
to the delivery of the highest levels 
of service to our customers and we 
would like again to thank them for their 
dedication and continued hard work 
during the year. 
We strive to continuously improve our 
safety culture and we have implemented 
a number of initiatives throughout the 
year. We launched our employee guide 
for health and safety responsibilities and 
introduced a set of behavioural standards 
at our main office sites, called the ‘Safety 
Six’ .  Health and safety will remain a 
significant area of focus for us.
A committed, capable and motivated 
workforce is central to delivering our 
vision and we remain fully focused on 
maintaining high levels of employee 
development and engagement. We are 
always looking for the best and the 
brightest talent and we are pleased to 
say that we extended our apprentice 
programme during the last year. We 
currently employ over 80 apprentices 
and plan to recruit up to 40 apprentices 
each year through to at least 2015. 
Alongside this, we are continuing to 
expand our graduate recruitment 
scheme, with plans to add over  
20 graduates in 2013/14 in addition  
to more than 35 we currently employ.
Our board
Our plc structure and governance 
standards ensure that our board and non-
executive directors continue to provide 
sound and prudent oversight in full 
compliance with the principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. In addition, 
we are the only UK water company to 
have achieved and retained ‘World Class’ 
status in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index over the last five years, reflecting 
our high standards of governance. Indeed, 
we are one of only two water companies 
globally to reach this high standard. 
On behalf of the board, we say thank 
you and farewell to Paul Heiden who will 
stand down at this year’s annual general 
meeting after over seven years as a non-
executive director. We wish Paul all the 
best for the future.
We are pleased to welcome Brian May 
to the board as a non-executive 
director following his appointment last 
September. Brian is also finance director 
at Bunzl plc. His expertise will be an 
asset to the board and he will replace 
Paul as chair of both the audit and risk 
committee and the treasury committee.
Outlook
We believe that our sustained focus on 
customer satisfaction and operational 
performance is delivering results for 
customers, shareholders and our other 
stakeholders. We continue to be on track 
to meet our regulatory outperformance 
targets, with substantial financing and 
operating outperformance already 
secured. Our capital structure remains 
robust and we have a sustainable 
dividend policy that targets real growth 
through to at least 2015. 
Looking ahead, our focus remains centred 
on driving further customer satisfaction, 
alongside operational and environmental 
improvements and we believe there is 
still plenty of scope to achieve this. We 
are now preparing our business plan 
for the next Price Review, as we aim to 
address the needs of our stakeholders, 
support the environment and our regional 
economy, while recognising the need to 
keep bills affordable for our customers.
Dr John McAdam 
Chairman
Steve Mogford 
Chief Executive 
Officer
Responsible business
As a board we are responsible to our shareholders, customers and other 
stakeholders for the performance and long-term success of our company. The 
way in which we operate, we believe, reflects the highest standards of corporate 
governance. 
We continue to listen to the views of all our stakeholders and endeavour to 
develop, manage and operate in an environmentally sustainable, economically 
beneficial and socially responsible manner. In recognition of the company’s 
continued focus on responsible business, we retained our ‘World Class’ rating, as 
measured by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 2012, attaining our highest 
ever score. We also retained our ‘Platinum Big Tick’ ranking in Business in the 
Community Corporate Responsibility Index and were awarded membership of the 
FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. We are proud that we are one of 
only four FTSE 100 companies to hold all three awards.
The communities in which we operate are of great importance to our business and 
we have continued our investment in these communities of the North West both 
financially and in terms of employee time through volunteering. For example, our 
‘Pathways’ volunteering scheme, delivered by our employees, provides practical 
help and support to people who have struggled to find work.
FACT
Our 2010 -2015 
investment 
programme supports 
9,000 jobs across 
the region
