 10 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
INCREASE
Strategic report
Setting new standards for performance 
and capability
Increasing 
our customers’ 
competitiveness
HIGH-QUALITY DELIVERABLES 
FOR RIGHT-FIRST-TIME 
CONSTRUCTION
QUALITY 
Mat T ruche-Gordon
Executive Vice President 
Business Strategy
DIGITAL
ASSET STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
COLLABORA TION 
Q. How does AVEVA improve the quality 
of deliverables?
A. Both in our engineering and design 
products and our Information Management 
solutions, AVEVA builds in rules, templates 
and best practice functionality that leave 
nothing to chance. Fully detailed 
construction deliverables are generated 
directly from the 3D model, ensuring 
accuracy and completeness. Operational 
procedures are supported by applications 
that demand correct use and approvals, and 
which create permanent audit trails.
Q. How is AVEVA responding to the new 
mobile generation of technology?
A. Tablet devices, pervasive internet access 
and Cloud technology are poised to 
revolutionise the engineering industries. 
AVEVA is driving this revolution with 
new technologies that put trustworthy 
information right in the hands of decision 
makers and front-line personnel. One 
outstanding example is AVEVA E3D Insight 
– the world’s first tablet app for design 
review, anywhere, anytime. This new app 
has already been recognised by our industry 
with prestigious innovation awards and 
universal praise from industry analysts.
Q. How is laser technology being used 
by AVEVA customers to increase quality 
and collaboration?
A. High-definition 3D laser surveying has 
come of age and AVEVA leads the market 
with technologies for exploiting the huge 
potential value represented by photorealistic 
laser scans of as-built assets. These 
powerful technologies are delivering new 
capabilities and new levels of efficiency, both 
in ‘greenfield’ projects and in-life extension 
and upgrades of existing ‘brownfield’ assets. 
Our customers are visualising and rapidly 
modelling existing assets to streamline 
maintenance and revamp projects, saving 
time and money and reducing risk.
Q. Is there a single process or 
methodology that your customers should 
use to make decisions when working with 
your technology?
A. No. In fact this is exactly the point of the 
Digital Asset. Each decision must be made 
with the information available at the time 
and based on the key business objectives. 
AVEVA technology provides users with the 
most trustworthy information in an easily 
accessible way, enabling rapid, informed 
decisions that will drive their business 
forward. We give people what they need to 
do their job as effectively as possible without 
constraining them with entirely impractical 
processes that demand rules and standards 
be defined up front.
How we do it…
INDUSTRY-LEADING GLOBAL 
COLLABORATION ANYWHERE IN 
THE WORLD
INFORMED AND TIMELY DECISIONS BASED 
ON TRUSTWORTHY INFORMATION
DECISION 
MAKING  12 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
ENABLE
Strategic report
Helping OOs, EPCs & 
Shipbuilders
HIGH-QUALITY CAPITAL  
PROJECTS ON TIME  
AND ON BUDGET
PROJECT 
EFFICIENCY 
DIGITAL
ASSET STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
More powerful technologies for better management 
of projects and assets
How we do it…
Q. What are the principles that define an 
Integrated Project Execution (IPE) strategy 
for your customers?
A. AVEVA technology provides a common 
environment for the sharing and use of 
information by all disciplines and business 
processes, from initial order taking through 
to final handover. Information is created and 
controlled by the relevant disciplines and 
made available, at specified levels of 
maturity, for use across the entire project. 
Information accuracy and reliability is 
assured; double-handling and duplication of 
data is eliminated. Planning, procurement, 
scheduling, fabrication and construction all 
work with definitive information created and 
updated by engineering and design. It is 
very rewarding to see how our customers 
use our products and solutions to 
implement IPE strategies that meet 
their specific business objectives.
Q. How does the priority and reality of EPC 
and shipyard projects differ?
A. The business objectives of an EPC or 
shipyard project are very similar; both 
focus on project efficiency in order to meet 
schedules and budgets. Many of the specific 
skills and processes are, of course, very 
different. This is where the industry expertise 
of our global team is so important. We have 
talented, experienced professionals who 
know the plant and marine industries that 
we serve. They speak our customers’ 
industry and cultural languages and work 
closely with them to implement the right 
technology for their business.
Q. Can you give a few examples of how 
an Operations Integrity Management 
strategy delivers tangible benefits to 
your customers?
A. AVEVA Information Management 
technology enables OOs to develop 
and operate robust asset management 
strategies based on rigorously controlled, 
quality assured and readily accessible 
information. The unique AVEVA NET 
technology aggregates, validates, 
contextualises and makes readily available 
all types of asset information, from whatever 
source, and independent of the original 
authoring programmes, to support all 
aspects of asset operation. New industrial 
gaming technology – AVEVA Activity 
Visualisation Platform (AVEVA AVP) now 
brings an unmatched level of capability to 
operator training, task rehearsal and Work 
Order visualisation.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE  
AND ASSET PRODUCTIVITY 
WITH LOW TOTAL COST OF 
OWNERSHIP
ASSET 
OPTIMISA TION 
Helmut Schuller
Executive Vice President  
Sales 14 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Business Services
Delivering the people, talent and IT business systems that are critical to the 
efficiency and growth of the organisation
Finance & Legal
Meeting the essential financial management, legal and contractual requirements 
of a growing global organisation
ES – Enterprise Solutions 
Building solutions that create, manage, maintain and exploit the Digital Asset for 
business processes across the life cycle
EDS – Engineering & Design Systems
Supporting the creation and evolution of the Digital Asset with engineering and 
design solutions for the entire life cycle
Global Sales
Focused on selling AVEVA’s full product and solution portfolio to all of our EPC, 
OO and Shipbuilding customers
Business Strategy & Marketing
Defining our business strategy and communicating AVEVA’s vision internally 
and externally 
Business model
Organisation
Strategic report
Sharing talent & 
resource across the 
organisation
Business model
At the core of AVEVA’s business is the 
intellectual property generated in its 
software products. The Group sells its 
proprietary software products by licensing 
rights to use the software directly to 
customers through our network of global 
sales offices rather than through resellers 
or distributors. This strategy provides 
customers with local sales and support and 
helps AVEVA to work closely with the leading 
companies principally in the Oil & Gas, Power 
and Marine markets.
We operate a ‘right to use’ licensing model 
for both Enterprise Solutions software and 
engineering and design products. Customers 
license our software for a specified number of 
users by paying an initial licence fee followed 
by an obligatory annual fee or by paying a 
rental fee over a fixed period of time. In both 
cases, the customer has to continue to pay a 
fee in order to use the software. This model 
continues to provide a strong recurring 
revenue base for AVEVA which allows us to 
invest in the future roadmap of our products. 
Our Enterprise Solutions software involves a 
higher degree of services compared to our 
engineering and design tools. These services 
consist of implementation and customisation 
of these solutions and are provided either on 
a time and materials basis or under fixed 
price contracts.
Operations
Driving AVEVA’s business 
strategy across all geographic 
regions to support the long-
term growth of the Company
