 2
2007 was an important year for Universe. Following a
disappointing 2006, major changes in the Group’s financial and
operational structure were necessary, and were made. 
Financially, the Group strengthened its balance sheet, through a
placing of new equity on 20th April 2007 raising £3 million (before
costs), and putting in place new bank facilities.
Operationally, experienced and enthusiastic new management has
been recruited to re-organise and re-energise all functions within
the Group. 
The Board was also strengthened by the addition of a new non-
executive director. I was delighted to welcome Malcolm Coster to
the Board in August. Malcolm’s operating and board experience in
technology services and manufacturing companies will add greatly
to the Board’s decision making. Ray Mackie and Adrian Grinsell
have stood down from the Board and we thank them for their
services to the Group.
Results and Current trading
In 2007 we achieved an adjusted operating profit* of £0.8 million.
This represents an increase of 28.4% compared with operating
profit of £0.7 million the previous year. Our sales on continuing
business were £13.2 million, against £11.3 million for 2006, yielding
an adjusted profit before tax** on continuing business of £0.7
million against £0.3 million for 2006.  On a statutory basis,
operating loss for the year was £1.6 million (2006: £2.8 million) and
loss after tax was £1.9 million (2006: £6.5 million). 
Universe has made significant investment developing the products
and technology applications which it employs today.   Following the
Group's development of various new technology products the
Board has reviewed certain of the previously capitalised costs and
has agreed that it is appropriate to write off £2.3 million relating to
the development costs of payment terminal hardware, which the
Board believes may not be recovered in future sales.
The 2007 results were encouraging, setting the Group off on its
renewed growth path.  
HTEC’s operating momentum resumed in 2007 as signalled last
year. Once again, it generated both cash and profits, and, crucially,
saw good revenue growth. With its much more cohesive and
prominent market strategy, we anticipate that this will continue on
this course in 2008.
Jet Set
An important move recently made was the formation of a new
subsidiary company Jet Set Wash Services Limited ("Jet Set") to
focus on the provision of car wash and valeting services.  The new
company will comprise the company's existing car wash and
valeting services, together with the acquisitions of AIB and WSF ,
details of which were announced on 12 February 2008. Jet Set is
an exciting addition to the Group, capable of generating both
strong growth and predictable earnings through its revenue
sharing contracts. 
Dividend
We continue to be very strongly focused on generating long term
growth. In order to achieve this we need to provide sufficient
financial resources to deliver the growth plan. Therefore we do not
propose paying a final dividend for the year but will review the
position regarding future dividend payments in the context of the
performance of the Group.
* Before write down of development costs of £2.3 million relating to a
reappraisal of future sales prospects in a period of rapid technology change
and other exceptional costs of £0.1 million relating to business restructuring.
** Before all charges disclosed in * and before other exceptional costs of
£0.1 million relating to refinancing. 
Prospects
Universe now has a sound financial and operational basis from
which to build. I am sure that 2008 will show continued progress
in growth, profitability and market penetration
John Scholes
Chairman
30 April 2008
Chairman’s Statement
