 Chief Executive’s Report
for the year ended 31 Decemåer 2007
3
In my first full year as CEO I can report that Universe Group has
undergone a transformation designed to deliver long term
sustained growth and enhanced value to shareholders. The key
elements of the strategy being a financial restructuring, disposal of
non core activities and focus on growing the main operating
subsidiary, HTEC, into new markets and territories. 
Financial Performance Review
Group revenues at £13.2 million (2006: £11.3 million) showed a
16% increase and an adjusted operating profit* of £0.8 million
(2006: £0.7 million) saw a 28.4% increase on the previous year.
Revenue increases took place in both the Retail and International
divisions driving margins higher overall. Substantial investment in
new people and infrastructure reduced overall profitability by
approximately £0.6 million but such expenditure was considered
essential to drive revenue growth.
The Board will continue to monitor revenue growth, operating
profit and customer satisfaction as key performance indicators.
Service excellence has become an essential element in customer
retention and in 2007 no major customer was lost. Revenue
growth was targeted at 24% (£14 million) for the year and
operating profit growth at 98% to £1.3 million.
New Senior Management
It has been necessary to make a number of key appointments
during the year to create a well-balanced management group
suitable for the significant growth which we anticipate. 
Charlie Goulding took up the role of Chief Operating Officer with
particular emphasis on heading the sales function and its delivery
support functions. After a long and successful career with IBM and
latterly with Verizon, he brings the experience needed to drive the
Group into new international markets.
Jeff Dakin joined in January 2008 to head up the IT and product
development areas. Again he joined us after a long and successful
career with firstly Marconi and for many years IBM. His experience
in product design and data centre management is particularly
welcome as these are key areas related to our ability to grow.
Richard Philips joined to add an international dimension to channel
development and marketing, especially for loyalty systems.
Expansion of loyalty systems into new markets is a growth target
for the Group.
Darren Graham has joined Universe to create a new business line
in the Jet Wash, Air and Vacuum vending (“JAV”) area on petrol
forecourts. He is an experienced professional from the JAV arena.
The Board is committed to continued development and
enhancement of the Group’s product range to keep ahead of
anticipated technical and legislative changes.
HTEC
For 2007 , HTEC was the only subsidiary of the Group. HTEC has
occupied a prominent position in the UK forecourt managed
services market for a number of years and in 2007 set out to
expand its range of services and push into international markets
using its relationships with existing global customers. HTEC’s
systems currently run the petrol forecourts of two major
supermarket chains and over 33% (3,000 +) of all UK forecourts
have some HTEC equipment on them. 
After examining HTEC’s business, I concluded that because of the
diverse range of product lines within the business, a divisional
structure would be the optimal way to ensure focus. By
divisionalising it was possible to analyse performance and potential
of the different business lines in order to target funding into the
most appropriate areas. 
The trading divisions are:
i. Retail Systems
ii. International Oils and Loyalty
iii. Jetwash, Airtowers, Vacuums (JAV)
iv. Custom Electronics Manufacturing (CEM)
These are supported by central services including product
development and a data centre. For the UK petrol forecourt
market, HTEC positions itself as an end to end supplier of
complete solutions based on its own industry leading hardware
and software. The business strategy is to move towards a fully
managed service model using these products. Managed services
revenues are now in excess of 50% of turnover enhancing the
quality of earnings of the company from good margin contracted
revenue streams.
Today, HTEC provide Mission Critical Services to a customer base
including: ASDA, Morrisons,  ChevronTexaco, Total Oil and BP
Europe. We are now investing in expanding this business
internationally.
Retail Systems
The core of the HTEC business is the supply of point of sale (POS)
systems to the UK petrol forecourt market. Investment has been
made during the year to expand and repackage the system
elements to allow for expansion into a channel sales model sitting
alongside the traditional direct sales force. Development continues
with the software to improve functionality for the growing
convenience store market and to allow foreign language versions
to be developed. 
During the year HTEC purchased the IP rights to the number plate
recognition software (ANPR) it previously sold as a licensed
product. Investment has been made to upgrade the software
ready for sale through channel partners whilst using the HTEC data
centre to hold and process data. Links are being established to
police databases to enhance the system capability. The rapidly
increasing market for surveillance and security products provides a
growing sales channel for future years.
Revenue grew by 18% to £5.3 million (2006: £4.5 million) with a
gross margin of 32.9%. 4
Chief Executive’s Report (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2007
International Oils Companies and Loyalty
This division handles the systems that rely on the data centre
infrastructure including on line payment systems and global loyalty
systems. HTEC has developed systems which can collect data
from many of the best known 3rd party POS systems moving it
away from a situation where it could only work with its own
proprietary software. Being independent of POS software allows
HTEC to integrate with a variety of channel partners enabling
better global reach. New product developments are in the main
customer driven and 2008 will see trials of a school meals charging
system in Portugal and a city card system in Spain both projects
showing the flexibility of the HTEC loyalty database software.
HTEC currently process £6 billion worth of EFT transactions per
year and have loyalty schemes with up to 14 million members in a
real time system.
The Iberian office has been bolstered with an additional sales
person and in particular new partnerships in Portugal have led to
the need to open a small office there.
Elsewhere in Europe we have recruited a convenience store
industry expert based in Holland to open channels in northern
Europe.
Revenue grew by 31% to £3.8 million (2006: £2.9 million) with a
gross margin of 70.5%.
Jet Wash, Air and V acuum (JA V)
This new venture has started well winning business resulting in
major accounts. The concept of revenue share from equipment
owned by the supplier and sited on the customers premises allied
to monitoring in real time through the HTEC datacentre adding a
management information feature not available from other
suppliers. This offering combines into an industry leading solution. 
To support this new activity we have purchased the assets and
trade of AIB Services Limited in Bedford since the year end. AIB
has been a leading supplier of JAV equipment for many years and
its manufacturing facility gives us control over quality and supply of
equipment alongside an established service operation. We have
also acquired WSF in Scotland which gives us a northern service
base and true national coverage. JAV operations had little impact
on the 2007 results but will add a substantial new business line in
future years.
Custom Electronic Manufacture
The traditional business of HTEC was subcontract design and
manufacture but over a number of years this had been in decline
to the point that when I joined HTEC either sale or closure seemed
the inevitable option. A strategic review showed that it was
marginally profitable but had operational and sales difficulties. An
immediate disposal was ruled out as impractical. The recruitment
of an experienced manufacturing manager with sales responsibility
and a reorganisation has transformed the performance. We now
have a growing business with a wider customer base. 
Revenue was marginally up to £4.1 million (2006: £3.9 million) with
a gross margin of 12.4%.
Investment in Growth
To achieve the Board’s growth targets, 2007 saw emphasis placed
on investment in the Group’s infrastructure. The recruitment of
new sales staff at all levels, implementation of a CRM system and
a brand relaunch all took place in the year increasing costs by in
excess of £0.6 million.  A programme of trade shows both in the
UK and Europe, product rebranding, website enhancement and
new marketing material have been put in place to support the
growth programme.
The strategic review and product clarification during the year forms
the basis for HTEC’s product development. Product and systems
development during the year has concentrated on moving from a
largely bespoke customer driven model to a pre defined standard
model. This opens up more sales channels and delivers a lower
cost of sale. For the first time in 2007 we successfully trialled on
line authorisation for payment transactions with a supermarket,
rolled out the first phase of a global loyalty scheme for an oil
company and integrated HTEC’s outdoor payment terminals with a
leading fuel pump manufacturer.
I am confident that the new management team will deliver
sustained year on year growth.
Paul Cooper
Chief Executive Officer
30 April 2008
