 06 Universe Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Stock code: UNG
www.universeplc.com
16433 12/05/2009 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
2008 saw a continuation of the strategy to grow top line revenue 
through increased sales and marketing of a better defined product set. 
The Group’s major market in petrol forecourt retailing continues to be 
dominated by a small number of specialised companies. Universe’s main 
subsidiary HTEC has maintained and grown its leading position in the 
UK as a supplier of payment and loyalty systems, supported by robust 
service management and the supply of business analytics. The new 
JetSet subsidiary has won some very impressive contracts in its first year, 
with oil companies and major retailers. Our focus is still on increasing our 
percentage of business with strong recurring revenue streams.
Financial Performance Review
Group revenues at £16.6 million (2007: £13.2 million) showed a 26% 
increase, with an adjusted operating profit of £0.5 million (2007: 
£0.8 million) down on the prior year mainly due to start up losses of 
£0.2 million at JetSet and investment for revenue growth. Revenue 
growth was strongest in the Petrol Forecourt Solutions division, 
where year on year growth was an impressive 31%. Gross margins 
for the Group increased slightly to 38% (2007: 37%) overall as the 
move from low margin manufacturing continued.
The Board will continue to monitor revenue growth, operating profit 
and customer satisfaction as key performance indicators. Service 
excellence has become an essential element in customer retention, 
and no major customer was lost in 2008. 
Balance Sheet, Cash Flow, Banking Facilities and Going Concern
At the start of 2008 the HBOS funding lines were refreshed and 
increased to allow for the planned acquisitions necessary to create 
the JetSet division. In addition, asset based finance was used to fund 
the acquisition of IT equipment necessary for the On-Line Loyalty 
programme development. 
Later in the year securing asset based financing to fund the JetSet roll 
out programmes was a major challenge, and resulted in fixed asset 
expenditure being largely self funded from working capital resources. 
As a result of the growth in the business and acquisitions, borrowings 
increased from £1.8 million to £3.2 million over the course of 2008. 
Operational cash flows generated income of £0.8 million in 2008, an 
improvement of £1.2 million on the cash outflow reported in 2007. This, 
along with cash generated from the increase in borrowings of £1.3 
million, was used to invest in JetSet equipment and the development 
of the software products in HTEC. The positive cash flows now being 
generated by JetSet equipment and the On-Line Loyalty programme 
will serve to reduce these borrowings over the course of 2009.
During 2008 the Group was in breach of certain of its banking covenants. 
These breaches were subsequently waived by HBOS and amendments 
were made by HBOS to the financial covenants. These amendments to 
the covenants will ensure that the Group remains in compliance with 
its bank facility requirements over the coming 12 months based on the 
financial forecasts set for the business during this period, and which 
management believe will be achieved despite the continuing difficult 
economic conditions. As a result, the Directors have continued to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Senior Management
A well-balanced management group suitable to drive significant 
growth is now in place, and includes experienced executives taken 
from the petroleum retailing sector and wider IT services sector. 
The accumulated knowledge of these managers is framing our 
managed service business approach.
Bob Smeeton joined HTEC in June 2008 and was appointed Group 
Finance Director of Universe Group plc on 1st January 2009. Bob 
was previously European FD of the AIM quoted Opsec Security 
Group plc. He will lead the finance team through a period of 
systems upgrade and financial control development to underpin the 
Group’s growth plans.
The Group’s divisional reporting structure now produces a focus 
and measurement to enable the managers to deliver the growth 
potential. There are three divisions within HTEC:
1.  Petrol Forecourt Solutions (‘PFS’), dealing with petrol retailers’ 
point of sale, payment and business intelligence systems.
2.  Universe Data Systems (‘UDS’), specialising in on-line loyalty and 
payment systems.
3.  Manufacturing (‘CEM’), handling subcontract design, 
development, manufacturing and repair services both for other 
divisions and third parties.
And:
4.  JetSet, which is the new venture based in Bedford, 
manufacturing and selling forecourt valeting equipment. A 
revenue share model for placement of JetSet owned equipment 
on a petrol forecourt site is operated, alongside a traditional 
sales strategy, to ensure regular income from contracts up to 5 
years in length.
Petrol Forecourt Solutions 
HTEC has occupied a prominent position in the UK forecourt 
managed services market for a number of years and its systems 
currently run the petrol forecourts of two major supermarket chains. 
Over one-third of all UK forecourts rely on HTEC systems. The core 
of the business is the supply of point of sale (‘POS’) and payment 
systems. Investment has been made during the year to expand 
and repackage the system elements to allow for expansion into a 
channel sales model, sitting alongside the traditional direct sales 
force. Development of the software continues, both to improve 
functionality for the growing convenience store market and to 
facilitate the roll out of foreign language versions. 
HTEC has a wide range of end to end approvals to handle bank 
and fuel payment cards, and will continue to maintain this market 
leading position. HTEC’s payment terminals are recognised as some 
of the most secure within the industry, meeting the challenges posed 
constantly from card fraud criminals.
16433UNIVERSE.indd   06 12/05/2009   16:06 Universe Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Stock code: UNG
07
16433 12/05/2009 Proof 6
The revenue growth of 31% to £9.9 million (2007: £7.6 million) during 
the year was mainly attributable to continued success in deploying 
outdoor payment terminals (‘OPTs’) into the UK market. This is driven 
by the desire for faster forecourt throughput and unattended 24-
hour stations. We continue to pursue partnering opportunities to 
expand into export markets and see this as an important strategy 
for continued growth. The UK market is a mature market and the 
excellent recurring revenue streams provide the solid base of the 
Universe business.
Universe Data Services 
During the latter part of 2008 UDS began the roll out of what is 
believed to be the largest and only truly global real time loyalty 
scheme on behalf of a major US oil company. The web based 
system is now live in four European countries with licence 
arrangements for many more to come on stream in future periods. 
In excess of 100 million transactions are forecast to be processed 
by our data centre for the first year and significant ongoing revenue 
streams will accrue from the initial five year agreement.
Good progress has been made during the year to establish UDS 
outside of the petrol and oil industry. An agreement has been 
reached with RAPP, a leading global marketing and advertising 
company, for them to feature UDS’s loyalty software as their 
preferred partner solution. As a true global agency, RAPP give 
Universe excellent exposure in a wider market.
The segmental reporting breakdown shows an increase in revenue of 
26% for the year but a divisional loss. Customer dictated roll out delays, 
on the large contract referred to above, resulted in lower revenue than 
anticipated. At the same time, investment in sales and marketing in 
UDS increased the cost base, resulting in a small loss at the divisional 
level. In 2009, the division will benefit from income derived from the 
major global loyalty roll out which will return UDS to profit. 
Long sales cycles are a feature of loyalty systems projects, but the 
growing number of exciting opportunities presenting themselves 
indicates strong future potential based on a recurring revenue model.
Development continued on the number plate recognition software 
(‘ANPR’) to upgrade the software ready for sale through channel 
partners whilst using the HTEC data centre to hold and process data. 
Links are being established to police databases to enhance the 
system capability. The rapidly increasing market for surveillance and 
security products provides a growing sales opportunity for future 
years. The product range now includes car park barrier control 
and visitor systems. Both our hypermarket customers use ANPR to 
prevent non-payment from drive offs at their petrol forecourts.
Manufacturing 
Revenue was down to £3.3 million (2007: £4.1 million) with a gross 
margin of 17% (2007: 12%). The revenue decline was as a result of 
customers transferring production to China. For 2009 the cost base 
has been significantly reduced to return the division to profitability but 
in the current economic climate, no immediate growth is forecast.
JetSet 
The acquisition of the trade and certain assets of an established 
industry manufacturer, AIB Services Limited, based in Bedford, 
enhanced this new venture, which was started in 2007. The concept 
of revenue share from equipment owned by the supplier and sited 
on the customers’ premises resulted in the winning of contracts from 
three major petrol retailers during 2008. The cross selling opportunity 
from other Universe business units is clearly demonstrated here. All 
equipment was manufactured in the Bedford facility and some 530 
units had rolled out by the year end. The integration of the Bedford 
operation, increased costs and delayed equipment placement, 
resulted in a loss for the year of £0.2 million for the division. 
The major constraint on the business was the sudden and 
unprecedented withdrawal of asset backed finance facilities from 
a number of banks which had agreed drawdown facilities prior to 
the credit crisis in the banking sector. JetSet would have moved into 
profit had finance been available to roll out orders as planned.
Despite its initial losses JetSet has won prestigious contracts and has 
excellent future growth potential. 
Outlook
Today, Universe provides mission critical services to two of the 
UK’s hypermarket groups and all five of the major oil companies in 
Europe. The 2008 Retail Marketing Survey from the Energy Institute 
concluded that the previous steady decline in petrol forecourts 
had finally reversed with a modest increase in sites to 9,283 (2007: 
9,271). The Group is well placed to serve the dominant retailers in the 
sector. Currently the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard 
approved data centre handles £8 billion worth of EFT transactions 
per year and has loyalty schemes with up to 14 million members 
operating in a real time environment.
2008 saw emphasis placed on investment in areas that will 
provide the Group’s future growth. The recruitment of new sales 
staff and increased marketing added £0.6 million to the cost 
base, particularly in PFS and UDS. The changed economic climate 
persuaded the Board in early 2009 that it would be prudent 
to remove some cost to deliver the results currently expected 
by the market. The savings were mainly from reductions in the 
manufacturing workforce and engineering support teams for end of 
life products.
I am confident that the management team will continue to deliver 
sustained year on year growth.
Paul Cooper
Chief Executive Officer
28th April 2009
16433UNIVERSE.indd   07 12/05/2009   16:06
