 6 Universal Salvage plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
INTRODUCTION
I am very pleased with the progress we have made in
the second year of our Business Turnaround Plan. On a
trading level, we secured a good level of new contracts
and on the operational side, we have improved
efﬁciency. Most importantly, I am delighted with 
the fact that we have returned the Group to proﬁt.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
The ﬁrst year of our Business Turnaround Plan was
focused on securing the Group’s ﬁnancial position 
and addressing the cost base, which was too high 
in relation to the throughput of vehicles. In the 
second year, we have been concentrating on business
development. The most important issue for the
business is growing turnover. This has meant
revitalising our sales and marketing activities and 
re-building our credibility within our core insurance
market as well as turning our attention to considering
how we develop new income streams outside this 
core market.
In mid June, we appointed a new Sales Director 
who took on the responsibility of strengthening 
our sales and marketing efforts and pursuing tender
opportunities. Since the consolidation in the UK motor
insurance marketplace, there has been a general trend
downwards in the frequency of tenders. Nevertheless,
in June 2005 we were pleased to be appointed as a
‘‘We are pleased to have returned the 
business to proﬁtability and improved 
operating cash generation. The business
has good growth potential and we 
are conﬁdent of delivering improved 
results over the year.’’
Avril Palmer-Baunack 
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review 7 Universal Salvage plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
supplier to Admiral Insurance Services Limited, covering
the South of England and we have subsequently been
reappointed for a further term. Also in the ﬁrst half of
the year, in September, we signed a national agreement
with Co-operative Insurance Society Limited (‘CIS’).
This major contract is for a two year period and we are
the sole supplier. CIS is also using our on-line salvage
management system, which enables insurance claims
and vehicles to be processed more efﬁciently. More
recently after the year-end, we secured a contract from
Highway Insurance Company Limited, which started 
on 1 May 2006.
We are achieving good returns at our auctions, with
ﬁrm demand from vehicle repairers and dismantlers
and steady bid prices. We have optimised returns
through a series of specialist sales, including ‘classic’
cars, light commercial vehicles and motor cycles. As
well as taking on-line absentee bids, we are also making
more use of on-line auctions, with our sites at Denny 
in Stirlingshire, Westbury in Wiltshire and Chester 
in Flintshire selling their vehicles only through the
Internet rather than through auctions at the site.
This is working very well.
Historically, vehicle salvage operators have acted as
principal when selling salvage vehicles from motor
insurers. However, there is some movement away 
from this traditional model and we have been talking
to some of our key insurance customers about
providing the service as agents, acting on a fee basis
rather than as principal buying the vehicle salvage from
them. Two major accounts are now trading like this and
the change will help to reduce our risk exposure, and
create more stable income streams.
Income from our non-salvage fee-based business
(principally low-value, part-exchange cars) suffered
from the failure of a major customer, Yes Car Credit,
which was closed by its parent, Provident Financial PLC
in December 2005. As a result, volumes fell by
approximately 16,000 units per annum.
As an authorised treatment facility (‘ATF’) for the
disposal of End-of-Life Vehicles (‘ELVs’), we have joined
the network of ATFs created by a consortium of
industrial vehicle shredders, who have created the free
‘Cartakeback’ service for motor manufacturers. This is in
readiness for next year when, from January 2007 motor
manufacturers will be responsible for the free take back
of their own marque ELVs. It is difﬁcult to predict the
volumes of vehicles that we will handle, but the current
strong steel prices make joining the Cartakeback
network an interesting option for us.
We have been pursuing opportunities to offer our
salvage services to a wider range of customers,
targeting corporate ﬂeets, accident management companies and car rental providers. This initiative 
is working well and we have secured a number of 
small accounts with ﬂeet operators. The quality of
salvage should be good, given the typical age proﬁle 
of these vehicles.
OPERATIONS
We created the new role of Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
in July 2005, in order to strengthen the operations side
of the business. We believed that there was scope to
introduce new core competencies and drive cultural
change that would improve efﬁciencies and reduce 
unit disposal costs.
We have now implemented new processes and other
initiatives, which are working well and I am pleased 
to see the beneﬁts in increased productivity.
Our site rationalisation programme was substantially
completed just after the year-end in May when 
we sold our property at Staughton Moor in
Cambridgeshire. During the year, we also sold our
Paddock Wood site in Kent. The gross cash proceeds
from the two sales were £1.05 million. These disposals
leave us with eight sites, at Denny in Scotland, Sandtoft,
Chester, Westbury, Sandy, Sandwich, Wootton and
Corby. We have let our Corby site, which is surplus to
our current requirements and our remaining seven sites
leave us with good operational capacity, having some
150 acres of vehicle storage space.
With the changes we have made this year, the
restructuring of the cost base has been largely
completed. We anticipate annualised cost savings of
£1.0 million going forward. Any future reductions in the
cost base are likely to be relatively small by comparison.
Our major capital expenditure this year related 
to the acquisition of four new car transporters at a
total cost of £0.3 million. This forms part of our ﬂeet
replacement programme. Otherwise we contained
costs very tightly.
STAFF
I would like to thank all the staff for supporting the
business through the Business Turnaround Plan.
Due to the difﬁcult trading situation over the last three
years, we were unable to provide the staff with a pay
increase; however, the Board and I were very pleased to
be able to reinstate the annual pay review in June 2006.
OUTLOOK
We are pleased to have returned the business to
proﬁtability and improved operating cash generation.
This was aided by stable auction results and strong
scrap prices particularly in the second half of the
ﬁnancial year, which is our busier period because it
includes the winter and spring months. Our results also
beneﬁted from our new contract wins although the
actual vehicle volumes that came through were a little
behind insurers’ initial predictions.
Conditions in the insurance salvage market remain
competitive but we are continuing to pursue all tender
opportunities. At the same time, we are pleased with
the progress we are making in diversifying the business
base. The business has good growth potential and 
we are conﬁdent of delivering improved results over
the year.
Avril Palmer-Baunack 
Chief Executive
24 July 2006
8 Universal Salvage plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
Chief Executive’s Review
CONTINUED
