 04 Universe Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Stock code: UNG
www.universeplc.com
16433 12/05/2009 Proof 6
Chairman’s Statement
“Two highlights of the year were the successful launch of an On-line Loyalty 
scheme for a major global oil company, and the contract wins secured by 
JetSet in its  ﬁ rst year of operation.”
16433UNIVERSE.indd   04 12/05/2009   16:06 Universe Group plc
Annual Report 2008
Stock code: UNG
05
16433 12/05/2009 Proof 6
Introduction
During 2008 Universe Group again grew strongly, continuing on 
the track established in the two previous years. Whilst we were 
disappointed to report an operating loss in the first half of the year, 
profitablility showed a considerable improvement in the second half, 
along with further revenue growth.
Two highlights of the year were the successful launch of an On-Line 
Loyalty scheme for a major global oil company, and the contract 
wins secured by JetSet in what was its first year of operation. 
2008 was also the year of the global banking debacle, and this played 
its part in restricting the growth of our operations as potential funding 
lines became more difficult to access. The Group’s position in supplying 
mission critical systems to a blue chip customer base will mitigate the 
impact of the recession on our operations. However, even amongst 
our customers there are signs of capital expenditure being deferred. 
Results and current trading
I am pleased to be able report that, after recording an operating loss 
for the first half of the year, the second half showed a considerable 
improvement in the profitability of the Group. Turnover in the latter 
six months again grew, by 11% compared to the first half of the year, 
and an adjusted operating profit of £0.9 million was generated in 
this second period. 
Overall in 2008 we achieved an adjusted operating profit of £0.5 
million* despite the loss experienced in the first six months. Whilst 
this was a 39% decrease on the adjusted operating profit for 2007, 
over half of the decrease relates to the loss incurred by the JetSet 
business in its start-up year. The statutory operating loss was £0.1 
million (2007: loss of £1.6 million).
As was announced on 8th December 2008, JetSet’s first year of trading 
has been adversely impacted by the banking crisis as it operates a 
business model that requires asset backed finance, which became 
increasingly difficult to secure through the latter months of 2008. 
Consequently, rollout programmes were delayed and both revenue 
and profitability targets in JetSet were missed. The impact of the success 
of JetSet in securing three major contracts during 2008 will start to come 
through as these roll out programmes are completed in 2009.
JetSet contributed 9% to the overall turnover growth of 26% (to £16.6 
million), with the balance provided by the Petrol Forecourt Solutions 
division of HTEC. Turnover within this division grew by 31% to £9.9 
million as a result of the roll out of hardware to the major customers.
The main event within the Universe Data Services division was the 
launch, in the last few weeks of the year, of the On-Line Loyalty system 
for a major oil company. Taking this system live had been delayed for 
nearly a full year by factors outside of our control. The success of this 
launch offers the potential for further growth of this account, and for 
expansion into new retail markets and geographic locations.
Board of Directors
As already announced, Eddie Paul stepped down as Finance 
Director at the end of 2008. Eddie has provided excellent service 
to Universe for many years, and he leaves the Board with our 
thanks. Whilst no longer a Director, Eddie continues to serve as our 
Company Secretary.
At the beginning of 2009 we welcomed Bob Smeeton to the Board, 
replacing Eddie as Finance Director. Bob’s experience in technology 
services and manufacturing companies has already contributed 
greatly to the Group.
Dividend
We continue to be strongly focused on growth and require sufficient 
financial resources to deliver that growth. The tightening of credit 
markets in 2008 and into 2009 means that those resources will largely 
be internally generated. Consequently, we do not recommend paying 
a final dividend for the year. We will review the position regarding 
future dividend payments in the context of the performance of the 
Group.
Prospects
In 2009, the Board’s focus will be on driving profitability in our four 
trading divisions, by growing turnover, improving product mix and 
carefully controlling costs. 
As already mentioned, we are seeing signs of our customers 
delaying decisions on capital expenditure. Consequently, we have 
taken steps to reduce the fixed cost base of the Group and since the 
year end have implemented a headcount reduction programme of 
15%, mainly within the Manufacturing division.
In the current economic climate, each of the four divisions will have 
its own challenges, but I am confident that we will build on the 
progress that has already been made.
John Scholes
Chairman
28th April 2009
* Before exceptional costs comprising restructuring costs of £0.5 million and costs of 
£0.1 million relating to stock obsolescence as a result of EU legislation (2007: Before 
exceptional costs comprising impairment of development costs of £2.3 million and 
restructuring costs of £0.1 million).
16433UNIVERSE.indd   05 12/05/2009   16:06
