 4 Universal Salvage plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
‘‘Over the last twelve months, we have 
made substantial progress in re-establishing 
Universal within the insurance marketplace.
Our new salvage contracts demonstrate 
we have gone a long way to rejuvenating 
the business.’’
RESULTS
I am pleased to report that the Company has returned
to proﬁt.
For the 52 weeks to 29 April 2006, the Group made 
an operating proﬁt, before exceptional items, of 
£0.9 million this year which is a considerable
improvement on the operating loss, before exceptional
items, of £0.9 million last year. Statutory operating
proﬁt of £0.7 million was achieved during the year
(2005: loss of £0.1 million). Proﬁt before exceptional
items and tax at £0.5 million showed an improvement
of £2.0 million on last year (2005: loss before
exceptional items and tax of £1.5 million). Proﬁt 
before tax was £0.2 million (2005: loss of £1.1 million).
Revenue rose by 13% to £56.4 million from 
£49.7 million last year. These results were supported 
by a 10% reduction in administrative costs before
exceptional items, to £9.9 million from £11.0 million
and an improvement in gross proﬁt of 7% to 
£10.8 million from £10.1 million last year. Basic
earnings per share improved to 2.4 pence (2005: loss
per share of 5.8 pence). The Board is not recommending
a dividend in line with last year. In the last ﬁnancial
year, we achieved our target of reducing operating costs
by £2.0 million on an annualised basis. Over this year,
we have made further cost reductions, equating to a
further £1.0 million on an annualised basis. At the 
year-end, net assets increased to £15.8 million (2005:
£14.8 million). Net debt decreased to £4.2 million
compared to £5.9 million last year. Gearing has been
reduced to 27%, a comfortable level (2005: 40%).
Results have been issued under the new International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and comparative
ﬁgures have been restated from those previously
reported under UK GAAP.
BUSINESS TURNAROUND
The year under review is the second year of our original
three year Business Turnaround Plan. Over the last
twelve months, we have made substantial progress 
in re-establishing Universal within the insurance
marketplace. Our new salvage contracts demonstrate
we have gone a long way to rejuvenating the business.
We have now largely completed the rationalisation of
the branch network. In April, we sold our Paddock Wood
site in Kent for £0.8 million and, after the year-end, in
May, we disposed of our Staughton Moor branch in
Cambridgeshire for £0.25 million. These sales follow last
year’s surplus property disposals and leave the Group
operating comfortably from seven sites. An eighth site
is not operational and leased to a third party.
Alexander N Foster 
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement 5 Universal Salvage plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
As I reported in my statement at the half year,
we believe that there is good scope to broaden our
customer base. Target markets we have identiﬁed are
corporate ﬂeets, car rental companies and accident
management companies and we have been actively
building relationships within each sector. I am pleased
to report that we signed a number of small accounts
with ﬂeet operators, including Europcar and Bankstone.
Volumes in these markets are typically lower than in
our traditional insurance marketplace, however the
quality of salvage is attractive.
BOARD CHANGES
I am delighted to welcome two new Non-executive
Directors; Nigel Stead, joined in March and Richard
Mead, in April. Nigel is Managing Director of Lloyds 
TSB Autolease, the ﬂeet management and ﬁnancing
specialist, and has over thirty years’ experience in 
the automotive industry. Richard Mead, a Chartered
Accountant, has spent over twenty years in corporate
ﬁnance and has wide ranging business experience.
Richard chairs the Audit Committee. After serving seven
years as a Non-executive Director, Edmund Bruegger
stepped down from the Group in January this year.
I would like to thank him for his contribution during 
his time on the Board.
STAFF
The Group’s return to proﬁtability this year is a 
result of the dedication and effort of everyone in the
business. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank
all the staff for helping to move Universal forward.
PROSPECTS
Over the new ﬁnancial year we expect to improve
proﬁtability, although the rate of growth will depend 
on vehicle volumes and auction results remaining ﬁrm.
I am convinced there are good opportunities to use our
market knowledge and skills in handling auto salvage 
to develop new income streams. Our strategy remains 
a twofold approach of continuing the process of
developing our existing business and at the same 
time broadening out into other related areas.
We have the people to drive Universal forward 
with vision and vigour in the year ahead.
Alexander N Foster 
Chairman
24 July 2006
We have also completed the major changes to
strengthen our senior management team. Two key
appointments were made in the ﬁrst quarter of the
year when we created the new position of Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer and recruited a new Sales Director.
We also strengthened our sales and marketing
functions and brought in people with experience in the
accident management industry to support our planned
move into a broader range of outsourced support
services for the motor insurance and ﬂeet marketplaces.
We continue to work hard on building our relationships
with our core customer base in the UK motor insurance
sector. There has been considerable consolidation within
the insurance industry and the insurance salvage
market remains highly competitive. However, we were
pleased to secure two signiﬁcant contracts last year
when we signed an agreement with Admiral Insurance
Services Limited, covering the South of England and 
in September won an exclusive national contract with
Co-operative Insurance Society Limited. In May this
year, we were appointed as joint supplier by Highway
Insurance Company Limited, the beneﬁt of which will
be felt in the current ﬁnancial year.
We have been in discussions with some of our
insurance clients about moving from the traditional
model of acting as principal, when buying vehicle
salvage, to providing a fee-based service where we act
only as a disposal agent. Two major accounts now trade
on this basis and the change will help to stabilise our
income streams going forward.
