 Corporate Governance Business Overview Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2012  |  ValiRx plc  5
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s report
I am pleased to report that we have continued 
to make good progress in terms of developing 
our cancer therapeutics and our biomarker 
diagnostics. During the period, the Company 
made signiﬁcant advances in moving forward 
both its therapeutic compounds, VAL101 
and VAL201, in their pre-clinical and clinical 
development programmes. Furthermore, 
ValiRx has grown and further developed its 
companion diagnostics biomarker programme 
alongside its overall R&D capabilities.
GeneICE and VAL101 
The Company has seen good progress 
regarding the pre-clinical development 
of VAL101, the lead compound based on 
ValiRx’s proprietary GeneICE technology (or 
“Gene inactivation by chromatin engineering”). 
GeneICE has been developed for silencing 
or “freezing” rebellious genes, which cause 
conditions such as cancer and various 
neurological problems. Imperial College, 
University of London, from whom the 
technology was originally licensed, has been 
working in collaboration with the Company 
and is continuing to carry out pre-clinical 
development studies. Alongside this activity, 
ValiRx is currently looking at ways in which it 
can further expand its development pipeline 
based on the GeneICE platform. 
We continue to meet the milestones as 
set out in our programme objectives and 
as previously announced, we have optimised 
and simpliﬁed the production of the candidate 
molecules. Results from the pre-clinical 
programme have shown efﬁcacy in killing 
cancer cells in several systems, as reported 
previously and we believe the lead compound 
and potential pipeline compounds have the 
scope to deliver beneﬁcial biological/clinical 
effects in oncological and various 
other indications.
VAL201
We were particularly pleased to report 
during the summer last year that our 
VAL201 development programme entered 
into its clinical development phase. Since then 
I am very happy to say that the manufacture 
of VAL201 has been upgraded to full GMP 
quality and batches of the compound, made 
to this human compatible standard, have 
been used in various regulatory toxicological 
and stability studies. All the various study 
results are in line with expectations and no 
unexpected results have been seen. In fact, 
no toxicological or other unpredicted effects 
within the expected therapeutic range have 
been witnessed.
In addition to the required regulatory 
background work, extensive work, of a 
more fundamental nature, aimed at improving 
the understanding of the molecular and 
biochemical mechanism of VAL201 has 
continued. This has markedly increased our 
knowledge and understanding of the speciﬁc 
way in which VAL201 interacts and causes 
the effects seen in the model, proof of 
concept and regulatory studies. This has 
resulted in a more robust underpinning of 
the clinical utility of the compound and is 
enhancing the potential for VAL201’s 
clinical success.
A major milestone was achieved when the 
company presented its ﬁndings to the MHRA 
in the late autumn and received considerable 
support from the organisation for taking VAL201 
forward. The ﬁrst clinical indication will be 
prostate cancer and the ﬁrst-in-human studies 
will involve patients with later-stage disease. 
It is very satisfying to be able to conﬁrm our 
earlier work that the compound is effective 
against a range of hormone refectory cancers 
such as breast and ovarian cancer, among 
others and the VAL201 response in these 
conditions was shown to be dose dependent. 
Further, we have ﬁrmly establish in a 
pre-clinical study of VAL201, in collaboration 
with Oxford University, a potentially important 
role for VAL201 in treating other conditions 
of hormone induced uncontrolled cell growth, 
and that treated test subjects remained fertile 
and produced normal offspring. All these 
hormonally induced conditions currently have 
a large unmet medical need. Additionally, it is 
nice to report that we have expanded our 
patent portfolio for a further indication in 
endometriosis or hormone induced 
abnormal cell growth in women. 
Diagnostics and Biomarker Activities
In January 2012, we saw the consolidation 
of our Biomarker biomarkers business unit 
with the acquisition of the Finnish biomarkers 
business, Pharmatest Services Oy, by ValiFinn 
together with 5 families of patents, patent 
applications and related Intellectual Property (IP). 
Strategically, the acquisition will enhance the 
Company’s R&D capability, as the specialist 
biomarker expertise within
ValiRx is a growing company with a clear  
business model.
Our business model has evolved to become a solid & reliable way to 
increase the Company’s growth potential, while all the time maintaining 
the desire to meet the demand and ﬁll an important gap in the market.
Reduce risk in new
product development 
through a rigorous 
clinical and commercial 
due diligence process
Select drug
candidates and 
technologies with 
evidence-based 
potential to address 
the unmet needs 
of the market
Maximise returns 
to shareholders by 
adding value at the 
earlier stages where 
value increases per 
investment unit are
the greatest ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6
Diagnostics and Biomarker Activities 
continued
the unit is leveraged to advance in-house 
the development of companion biomarker 
diagnostics to complement ValiRx’ s therapeutics. 
The acquisition provides ValiRx with increased 
exposure to the fast moving Biomarker market, 
a key and increasingly exciting ﬁeld within 
our industry, and to a revenue stream, albeit 
currently small, derived from the provision of 
contract services. Epigenomics is a rapidly 
advancing ﬁeld and pairing a prognostic and/
or predictive biomarker diagnostic with a 
targeted drug is emerging as a key part of 
personalised medicine, particularly in cancer 
patients. These markers have the potential 
for delivering signiﬁcant beneﬁt for patients, 
alongside potential cost savings derived from 
across the pharmaceutical industry. Our 
activity in this space has already attracted 
interest from a number of organisations and the 
company is progressing various opportunities. 
Clinical Appointments and 
Collaborative Agreements
The Company is delighted to report that it has 
attracted and is now working with a team of 
internationally recognized experts in Clinical 
development in Oncology. Together, the team 
brings decades of expertise in product clinical 
development, patient selection, clinical protocol, 
regulatory affairs and other areas, imperative 
for the optimisation of clinical outcomes. 
The Group is already feeling the beneﬁt 
of their collaboration, counsel and support 
in these areas. 
During the period, ValiRx has expanded its 
international developmental and collaborative 
agreements with prestigious partners, including 
Imperial College, University College, Institut 
Paoli-Calmettes of Marseilles, France and 
Physiomics plc (AIM: PYC), the Oxford-based 
systems biology company. We are delighted that 
the company continues to attract world-leading 
institutions to partner with us in the exciting 
development of a number of our key compounds 
and we thank them for their support.
SELFCheck Health Screening Products
In October, we announced that ValiMedix, 
had entered into a UK distribution agreement 
with First Health Products Limited for the 
distribution and sale of ValiMedix’s SELFCheck 
health screening products. The outsourcing 
of this division has freed up management time 
and has allowed ValiRx’s resources to be 
better targeted on maximising the value 
creation of its higher value, core therapeutic 
and diagnostic activities and for key members 
of ValiRx’s management team to expedite the 
product development of VAL201 towards 
clinical trials.
Fund Raising
During the year, the Company achieved 
two successful fund raises. In April 2012, 
we completed a placing through our broker 
Hybridan, to raise GBP 900,000 (before 
expenses). In November, ValiRx announced 
a second placing, again through Hybridan, 
to raise £2.03m. The net funds raised from 
this placing have provided the Company with 
the funding required to take VAL201 through 
and to the completion of First in Human trails, 
which represents a signiﬁcant opportunity 
and value driver for the Group and I am both 
grateful to and pleased by the high level 
of support received from both new and 
existing shareholders.
Outlook
Looking to the future, we will continue 
to progress our lead clinical development 
programmes and further advance the 
pre-clinical development pipeline, in addition 
to increasing the Company’s commercial 
development activities and our product 
development activities. The Company has 
made excellent progress over the past year 
and we will look to further establish ourselves 
at the forefront of personalised oncology 
development with hopefully some momentous 
milestones having been achieved.
Satu Vainikka
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
27 March 2013
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s report continued
ValiRx product pipeline
Discovery Product Optimisation Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II
VAL201 Prostate/Breast Cancer
VAL201 Endometriosis
VAL101 Apoptosis inducer
Nav3 Cancer biomarker
GeneICE Discovery platform









for product pipeline
 V
