 “
12
ValiRx plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Following on from the Chairman’s comprehensive 
review I will comment on the events and 
activities that I find the most significant and  
point the way to the future of the Company. 
The big achievement and the very significant 
event of 2014 was the Company getting formal 
regulatory clearance to undertake and starting  
a clinical trial of VAL201, a peptide directed  
at blocking androgen induced cancer by 
inhibiting a particular function with in large 
protein complex which goes by the acronym  
Src. It has been shown in many systems,  
tested by us, and others, that the effect VAL201 
has in this situation is to prevent cancerous  
cells form dividing under the influence  
of androgen hormones.
Getting to this stage has been the culmination 
of an intense period of work. During which 
the project team has been required to provide 
sufficient robustly manufactured compound 
along with a large set of scientific data and 
toxicological information prior to submitting  
a Clinical Trial Application (“CTA”). A CTA comprises 
a full plan for all aspects of the proposed clinical 
trial. In conjunction with, and as is required, to the 
CTA an Investigational Medical Product Dossier 
(“IMPD”) was produced. This is a document 
outlining all that is known about the science 
surrounding VAL201 and its proposed therapeutic 
use. The IMPD also details manufacture, storage 
and stability of VAL201 over time. Then, on top 
of this is the production of an Investigational 
Brochure (“IB”) which is a summary of the CTA 
and IMPD but also includes medical information 
and is aimed primarily at its use in the clinic and 
wider community. I have to thank the team for 
this herculean effort and then driving though 
the regulatory process of the MHRA Regional 
Ethics Committee and the local R&D approvals 
answering and responding to all requests and 
questions tirelessly.
Now that we are actually in the midst of the 
Trial at UCLH and the initial results are very 
encouraging I am looking forward with  
optimism for VAL201 and its future.
The new subsidiary, a risk-sharing joint venture, 
ValiSeek Limited is a substantial development  
and brings a new novel cancer treatment,  
VAL401 to ValiRx. Using the infrastructure 
developed while getting VAL201 in to the clinic 
and with the results we have obtained during  
the year and the preparation to take the therapy 
into efficacy trialling looks promising, especially  
as the safety and a human toxicology profile  
is well understood.
It should be noted that during the year the 
Company was actively involved in a Eurostar 
European funded grant with partners in Finland 
and Germany as well as with various scientists 
and manufacturing concerns throughout Europe 
and wider. As the Chairman has already described, 
the strategic alliance with the world leading 
Deutsches Krebsforschungzentrum (the German 
Cancer Research Center) matters greatly in the 
continuing development of the GeneICE platform 
and potential products derived from it.
The continuing growth of activity in our Finnish 
subsidiary ValiFinn is pleasing and its core 
activities have progressed well and are in line 
with our plans. Of note are the developments 
surrounding NAV3 mentioned by the Chairman. 
Following on from 
the Chairman’s 
comprehensive  
review I will comment  
on the events and 
activities that I find the  
most significant and point  
the way to the future  
of the Company.
Dr Satu Vainikka
Chief Executive Officer
VAL201
ValiRx achieved formal regulatory 
clearance to undertake a clinical trial  
of VAL201 (now commenced).
Strategic Report
