 2 ValiRx plc annual report and accounts 2011 Business Overview
AT A GLAnCE
WE FOCUS On THE TREATmEnT OF 
CAnCER, SpECIALISInG In EpIGEnOmIC 
AnD GEnETIC AnAL ySIS.
We have three advanced divisional companies, ValiPharma, ValiFinn and ValiMedix. 
Their technologies can be applied to numerous other fields and together they make up ValiRx. 
Our  
products
VAL101
VAL101 is a novel therapeutic 
It acts to target and switch “OFF” the gene that 
expresses Bcl-2, a protein that is implicated in 
about half of all carcinomas.
Pre-clinical studies have established vAL101’s 
efficacy in prostate, ovarian and pancreatic cancers, 
and may also have anti-tumour activity against 
orphan oncologic indications.
VAL201 is a novel peptide 
For the treatment of hormone refractory prostate 
cancer and also other indications of hormone 
induced unregulated growth including endometriosis. 
These conditions have major unmet clinical needs 
and the personalised approach provided by vAL201 
promises to significantly improve treatment outcomes.
VAL201
Valipharma has been exploiting over the 
past few years its proprietary epigenomic 
technology to develop promising therapeutics. 
They may prove in clinical trials to combat 
cancer safely and more effectively than 
currently used chemotherapeutics.
1
THERApEUTICS
Award winning GeneICE technology
In June 2009, valiRx, as the leading partner of an 
international consortium of three companies, was 
awarded a two year grant by eurostar against 
substantial competition from across europe, to 
develop its GeneICe technology (“GeneICe” or 
“Gene inactivation by chromatin engineering”).
The technology has since been shown to 
be effective against several cancer cell lines, 
including prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, 
pancreatic cancer and lung cancer.
Our  
technologies
OUR THREE DIVISIOnS... ValiRx plc annual report and accounts 2011 3 Business Overview
3
SELFCHECk
valiFinn’s research team members have a 
reputation for expertise and excellence in the 
field of molecular and cell biology, acquired 
over many years in industry and academic health 
sciences centres. They are strongly supported 
with robust analytical tools to meet the challenges 
in the development of personalised medicine.
Valimedix was founded in 2009 to 
exploit the growing “well being” market 
through the marketing and distribution 
of reagent-based home screening tests. 
They are designed to detect levels or the 
presence of a range of biological markers.
Our  
experience
Our services and activities 
In addition the activities include due diligence, 
business planning support including opportunity 
recognition, market assessment and marketing 
plan development, alongside the following:
• Disease specific Biomarker profiles
•  Proprietary disease profile database 
for licensing
•  Biomarker microarrays for cell line/ tissue 
sample/disease analysis
•  Disease specific diagnostics for therapeutic 
regime decision/monitoring
•  Various clinical status testing kits 
and companion diagnostics
Our  
research 
team
2
DIAGnOSTICS
High quality science within R&D service 
providers like ValiFinn, boost their rapid 
adoption of a new thinking and taking a 
lead in conducting clinical research for 
personalised medicine.
Our 
products
Our products and technologies
valiRx operates through the following 
divisional companies:
•  ValiMedix is the sales and distribution 
division of valiRx
•  ValiPharma is the therapeutics division with 
two embedded technologies primarily directed 
at the treatment of cancers. Of particular note 
is GeneICe, valiRx’s technology for controlling 
rebellious genes, which was awarded a 
eurostars grant to the value of €1.2m 
to fund the development of the GeneICe 
products through preclinical stages in 
cancer treatments.
