 02 ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
At a glance
We focus on the treatment of cancer, specialising
in epigenomic and genetic analysis.
Currently, the Group has two novel 
lead drug candidates. VAL101 is entering 
late stage pre‑clinical development. 
VAL201 is soon to enter First‑in‑Human 
clinical trials primarily in patients with 
prostate cancer.
VAL101
VAL101 is a novel therapeutic based on the Company’s 
proprietary GeneICE (gene inactivation by chromatin 
engineering) platform, which has attracted a second 
€1.6m Eurostars grant to fund its development. It acts 
to target and switch off the gene that expresses Bcl-2, 
a protein that is implicated in about half of all carcinomas. 
Bcl-2 inhibits the critical process of apoptosis 
(programmed cell death), which prevents cancer 
development. Thus, because of its function in 
anti-apoptosis, the Bcl-2 gene has become a major 
target in the development of new, superior anticancer 
therapies. Pre-clinical studies have established 
VAL101’s efficacy in prostate, ovarian and pancreatic 
cancers, and it may also have anti-tumour activity 
against orphan oncologic indications.
Read more about our products at:
www.valirx.com/about-us/products-and-technologies
Value inflection
April 
2013
August 
2013
ValiRx Plc – New Eurostars Award
ValiRx and Phamatest Services Limited have been awarded a new Eurostars grant. 
The grant to the consortium is for up to €1.6m; the funds will be used to progress 
the pre‑clinical studies of VAL101, the Company’s lead candidate deriving from the 
GeneICE platform, and to build the associated cancer models. This award follows a 
previous Eurostars grant of €1.4m, the programme in respect of which was completed 
earlier in the year.
ValiRx Plc – New Australian Patent Granted – 
Lead Compound
ValiRx’s drug substance VAL201 has efficacy in 
prostate, breast and ovarian cancer models and 
also addresses endometriosis or hormone induced 
abnormal cell growth in women. ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03 ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance Business Overview Financial Statements
VAL201
VAL201 is a novel peptide for the treatment of 
hormone refractory prostate cancer and also other 
indications of hormone induced unregulated growth 
including endometriosis. These conditions have major 
unmet clinical needs and the personalised approach 
provided by VAL201 promises to significantly improve 
treatment outcomes. Pre-clinical studies conducted in 
collaboration with Oxford University have also established 
that this compound has the potential to reduce side 
effects as it leaves other hormone-induced activities 
working normally. VAL201 is entering first in-human 
trials in cancer patients very soon.
ValiFinn BioMarkers
ValiFinn’s specialist competency lies in epigenomics, 
a rapidly advancing field that enables pairing a prognostic 
and/or predictive biomarker with a targeted drug. 
This is a key part of personalised medicine, particularly 
in cancer patients. The Company is actively discovering, 
developing and validating functional biomarkers with 
high specificity and sensitivity from its five families 
of patents and patent applications and related 
intellectual property. These are diagnostic markers 
of inhibition of signalling pathways, which are target 
sites for novel drugs to treat cancer and predictive 
markers of disease progression.
November 
2013
December
2013
ValiRx Plc – NAV3 Biomarker Patent Granted in Australia
The Company’s method for cancer screening using the NAV3 gene 
biomarker in the field of genetics and oncology received approval by 
the Australian patent office. The granting of this latest patent means 
that ValiRx now has biomarker patent protection in Australia, the US 
and across Europe.
ValiRx Plc – Positive VAL201 Biomarker Update
ValiRx received encouraging and positive results from the Group’s 
laboratory and biomarker unit, ValiFinn, in Finland, on the integral 
biomarker work associated with VAL201’s first‑in‑man trial. This is 
a fundamental part of the clinical development of the compound 
as it will be central to assessing the clinical outcome in prostate 
and other hormone induced cancers.
