 4 ValiRx plc annual report and accounts 2011 Business Overview
increased exposure to the Biomarker market, 
a key and increasingly exciting field within our 
industry, and also to a revenue stream, derived 
from the provision of contract services.
In 2011 we received the proceeds from 
the sale of our Belgian subsidiary diagnostic 
development business, valiBIO S.A, to 
Singapore volition Pte. Ltd (volition). This was 
a business which the Board considered lay 
outside the Company’s core technologies. 
However, we have retained the rights to the 
technologies for use in our therapeutic activities. 
Whilst we retain a modest interest and shareholding 
in its future growth, we are pleased to have 
satisfactorily exited from one of our investments.
The Company’s progress during the period 
under review has been very encouraging 
and I am delighted that the business is more 
strongly established than ever before and is 
now in a position to capitalise fully on both 
current opportunities and future successes. 
Going forward, I look forward to seeing our 
lead therapeutics continue to progress and 
our position in the biotechnology market 
strengthen further. We are well positioned 
and I look forward to the future with 
much confidence.
I am pleased to report that during the twelve 
months ended 31 December 2011 your Company 
continued to develop strongly, both in providing 
a well funded platform for drug development 
and in terms of the progress and development 
of its lead therapeutic compounds, vAL101 
and vAL201, and their progress towards the 
commencement of in-human clinical trials. 
Your Company continues to work with world class 
regulatory and clinical research organisations 
to ensure that these developments occur on 
a cost effective and timely basis.
The February 2011 Placing through Hybridan 
to raise £3.3m was a key milestone in providing 
valiRx with a secure base of funding from which 
the Company can accelerate the pre-clinical 
progress of vAL101 and vAL201 along with 
other activities and further progress 
the business.
The period also saw the establishment of 
our subsidiary, valiRx Finland OY (valiFinn) 
in Finland and the acquisition from Pharmatest 
Services Oy (Pharmatest) of Oulu, Finland, 
of its Biomarkers business unit together with 
several families of patents and patent applications 
and related intellectual property (IP). This 
acquisition provides the Group with both an 
CHAIRmAn’S REpORT
“ pROGRESS DURInG THE pERIOD UnDER 
REVIEW HAS BEEn VERy EnCOURAGInG 
AnD I Am DELIGHTED THAT THE BUSInESS 
IS mORE STROnGLy ESTABLISHED THAn 
EVER BEFORE.”
On a personal note I would also like to thank the 
executive T eam and the non-executive Directors 
for the significant contribution both groups have 
made to the business over the last twelve months.
N Thorniley
Chairman
26 April 2012
