 ValiRx plc annual report and accounts 2011 5 Business Overview
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REpORT
VALIRX IS A GROWInG COmpAny WITH 
A CLEAR BUSInESS mODEL.
Our business model has evolved to become a solid & reliable way to increase 
the Company’s growth potential, while all the time maintaining the desire to meet 
the demand and fill an important gap in the market.
Reduce risk 
in new product 
development through 
a rigorous clinical 
and commercial due 
diligence process
Select drug 
candidates and 
technologies with 
evidence-based 
potential to address 
the unmet needs of 
the market
Maximise returns 
to shareholders by 
adding value at the 
earlier stages where 
value increases per 
investment unit are 
the greatest
The past year has been a fundamentally important 
period in the development of valiRx, both as a 
company and in terms of the advancement of its 
various programmes. On all fronts, valiRx has 
made good progress.
Revenues for the year were £455,000 
(2010: £177,000). Administrative expenses 
were £1,513,000 (2010: £663,000). Included 
in administrative expenses were development 
costs of £421,000 (2010: 120,000). Losses after 
taxation were £933,000 (2010: profit £134,000).
I am pleased to report that over the year 
we continued to make good progress in 
terms of developing our cancer therapeutics 
and Biomarker diagnostics, with significant 
advances being seen regarding moving 
forward both therapeutic compounds, vAL101 
and vAL201, in their respective pre-clinical 
and translational programmes.
VAL101 and VAL201
Continued strong progress has been seen 
with regard to the eurostar’s programme for our 
lead therapeutic, vAL101 and for the GeneICe 
technology (or “Gene inactivation by chromatin 
engineering”), valiRx’s proprietary gene-silencing 
technology which has been developed for 
silencing or “freezing” rebellious genes, which 
cause conditions such as cancer and various 
neurological problems. 
We continue to meet the milestones as set 
out in a programme and are pleased to have 
optimised and simplified the production of the 
lead candidate molecule, which by extension 
makes the compound cheaper to produce, 
thereby adding future value. We believe this 
compound has the potential to deliver good 
biological activity and can complete pre-clinical 
studies efficiently and quickly.
Imperial College, university of London, from 
whom the technology was originally licensed, 
has been working in collaboration with the 
Company and is currently carrying out the 
late pre-clinical development. Results from 
the pre-clinical programme have shown efficacy 
in killing cancer cells in several systems, as the 
Company has reported previously, and valiRx 
was delighted to announce that its agreement 
with Imperial College had been extended and 
that Imperial College would continue with the 
further development of this cancer therapeutic 
work. Stability and toxicology studies are 
currently underway.
We were also pleased to report that the previously 
announced extension to our eurostars grant for 
the development of our GeneICe technology will 
extend the Company’s pipeline of potential cancer 
therapeutic compounds.
VAL201
We were also pleased to report on 28 July 2011 
that a further late pre-clinical study into the 
development of another of our lead therapeutics, 
vAL201, carried out in collaboration with 
Oxford University, firmly established a potentially 
important role for vAL201 in treating, in vivo, 
hormone induced refractory prostate cancer and 
other conditions of hormone induced uncontrolled 
cell growth including breast and ovarian cancer, 
among others. These conditions currently have 
a large unmet medical need.
This progress follows on from valiRx’s 
agreement with Oxford university on 14 April 2011 
to accelerate the development of this lead 
therapeutic and to study vAL201’s therapeutic 
potential for additional indications. In the studies 
thus far, vAL201 has been shown to prevent 
cancerous growth in live models, with two 
proliferative conditions and in a further three 
conditions in cancer cell lines. The response 
was shown to be dose dependent and the  6 ValiRx plc annual report and accounts 2011 Business Overview
VAL201 continued
Company was pleased to note that those models 
treated with vAL201 remained fertile and produced 
normal offspring and, unlike many other traditional 
therapies, no serious side effects were seen so far. 
valiRx further announced on 2 november 2011 
that it had filed a new patent for a further indication 
in endometriosis or hormone induced abnormal 
cell growth in women.
The compound is now in the translational phase 
from pre-clinical development into the clinical 
stage. Good progress has been made and it is 
gratifying to report that the production methods 
and procedures for the manufacture of vAL201 has 
been successfully upgraded to a standard that 
is acceptable for use in human, a process known 
as Good Manufacturing Practise or GMP . This 
GMP material is being used for the compulsory 
chronic and acute toxicological studies, which 
are being carried out to the highest ethical and 
regulatory standards. It is also pleasing to report 
that confirmatory pre-clinical studies, paid for by 
valiRx but conducted by independent contractors, 
have demonstrated the utility of vAL201 in 
controlling the proliferation of cancers – thereby 
confirming the results previously found by the 
Company and its collaborators.
Diagnostics and Biomarker activities
With respect to the Company’s diagnostics 
and Biomarker activities, valiRx was pleased to 
have acquired on 18 August 2011 the outstanding 
equity of a subsidiary business, valiRx Finland Oy 
(valiFinn), that it had jointly established with local 
partners in 2008. Subsequent to this transaction 
and just after the period end, valiFinn acquired on 
5 January 2012 from Pharmatest Services Oy 
(Pharmatest) of Oulu, Finland, its Biomarkers 
business unit together with several families 
of patents and patent applications and related 
intellectual property (IP).
The Biomarkers business unit comes with 
a revenue stream, which is derived from the 
provision of contract research services to 
pharmaceutical companies who are utilising 
its library of Biomarkers and it will form a new 
division at valiFinn. 
The Company will build on the specialist 
Biomarker expertise of valiFinn to develop 
its own companion diagnostic Biomarkers 
to complement valiRx’s therapeutics, its existing 
intellectual property and its companion diagnostic 
activities, as well as marketing that expertise for 
the development programmes of other companies.
Biomarkers are a fast moving and currently 
very dynamic field within the bio-industry 
space and are crucial for detecting cancer 
at an early stage. They are also key in optimising 
therapeutic strategy and monitoring therapeutic 
success. It is a market that is rapidly growing 
in size and it has the potential of delivering 
significant benefit for patients, alongside 
potential cost savings derived from across 
the pharmaceutical industry.
SELFCheck health screening products
valiRx is also continuing to generate revenues 
from its SeLFCheck “over-the-counter” health 
screening products in the uK, which screen and 
identify among other things cancers, cholesterol 
and several Sexually Transmitted Infections 
(STI) such as Chlamydia. During the period, 
we were pleased to conclude an agreement 
with Medcase OY MCO (Medcase), a Finnish 
distributor operating across the nordic region, 
for the distribution and sale of our SeLFCheck 
test kits in Finland and Sweden, among other 
key distribution agreements.
Collaborative agreements
During the period, valiRx was pleased 
to have secured several developmental 
collaborative agreements, with prestigious 
partners including Oxford university, Imperial 
College and Physiomics plc (AIM: PYC), 
the Oxford based systems biology company. 
We are delighted that the Company continues 
to attract world-leading institutions to partner 
with us in the exciting development of a number 
of our key compounds and we thank them for 
their support.
ValiBIO S.A 
In 2011, your Company received the proceeds 
from the sale of its Belgian subsidiary diagnostic 
development business, valiBIO S.A, to 
Singapore volition Pte. Ltd (volition). valiRx 
continues to retain its modest shareholding 
in volition and interest in the future upside 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REpORT COnTInueD
“ LOOkInG TO THE FUTURE, WE WILL 
COnTInUE TO pROGRESS OUR LEAD 
DEVELOpmEnT pROGRAmmES TOWARDS 
CLInICAL TRIALS AnD FURTHER ADVAnCE 
THE DEVELOpmEnT pIpELInE.” ValiRx plc annual report and accounts 2011 7 Business Overview
WE UTILISE A DIVERSE mAnAGEmEnT 
TEAm, BRInGInG TOGETHER A 
mIXTURE OF CORE SkILLS.
The ValiRx management team is a mixture of entrepreneurial scientists and business 
professionals, all with experience in developing medical life science companies.
The team is also experienced at transferring technologies and products into the 
commercial arena to generate revenue and grow shareholder value.
value and growth of the business, whilst both 
satisfactorily exiting from one of its investments 
yet retaining rights to use the technologies sold 
for its own use with its therapeutic programmes 
and products. valiRx has since received further 
shares in volition in exchange for wider rights 
to its hypergenomics Intellectual Property (IP), 
which the Board considered lay outside the 
Company’s core technologies.
Grant of patents
We were also pleased to announce just 
before the period end on 15 December 2011 
that GeneICe had received patent approval by 
the Canadian patent office. This followed the 
previously announced grant of patents for the 
technology across the world encompassing 
territories including the uS, europe and Australia. 
The filing of this latest patent extends the 
Company’s global geographic patent 
coverage and, we believe, increases 
the value of the Company’s assets.
Fundraising
valiRx also raised further capital of £3.3m by way 
of a placing, (announced on 16 February 2012). 
The net proceeds of the placing are currently 
being used by the Company to accelerate the 
pre-clinical progress of vAL101 and vAL201 
to support the sales and marketing activities 
of ValiRx’s subsidiary, ValiMedix, to develop the 
Company’s companion diagnostics for use in 
its therapeutic programmes and to support the 
development and testing of its HPv diagnostic.
Outlook
Looking to the future, we will continue to 
progress our lead development programmes 
towards clinical trials and further advance the 
development pipeline. The placing and capital 
raised has left the Company well positioned 
to translate and move forward its therapeutic 
programmes towards the clinic and also to 
further advance the business and programme 
development of its Biomarker subsidiary.
I believe that the Company has made excellent 
progress over the past year, which included 
a significant capital injection, a strengthened 
balance sheet and with the Company’s lead 
therapeutic products being on the cusp of 
clinical trials. We have a strong platform and 
offering from which to drive valiRx forward 
and firmly position ourselves at the forefront 
of personalised oncology diagnostic and 
therapeutics development in the sector.
S Vainikka
Chief Executive Officer
26 April 2012
