 ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05 ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance Business Overview Financial Statements
Chief Executive’s report
“ 2013 was a good
 year for ValiRx and
 I have been pleased
 to see its therapeutic
 development
 programmes moving
 forward encouragingly”
2013 was a good year for ValiRx and I have been 
pleased to see its therapeutic development 
programmes moving forward encouragingly, 
giving a very positive outlook for the clinical 
trials. Our clinical trial Project Team has signed 
off on the protocol for VAL201, the Company’s 
leading anti‑cancer therapeutic, its enhanced 
Phase 1b trial and its expected advance to 
a Phase 2 study. Product development for 
VAL201 has been successful and world‑class 
clinical partners have been agreed for the 
forthcoming trials.
The period under review also saw VAL101, 
the Company’s lead candidate deriving from 
the GeneICE platform, complete its first €1.4m 
Eurostars programme and this progress was 
subsequently rewarded by a second grant of 
€1.6m. The Company has grown its companion 
diagnostics and biomarker unit and, both before 
and after the year end, we strengthened the 
balance sheet via a successful fundraise.
Fundraising
Since November 2013, the Company has 
raised a total of over £4.3m in additional cash 
resource, through equity investment and the 
divestment of shares in the US‑listed company 
VolitionRx. This fundraising took place in a 
series of transactions, which comprised two 
equity fundraisings and an equity swap, and 
a further $601,578 (£364,000) through the 
divestment in shares of the US‑listed entity. 
The impact of these transactions has been to 
substantially strengthen the Group’s balance 
sheet and to allow the continuing clinical 
development of the lead compounds, VAL101 
and VAL201. This strengthening will hopefully 
enable the Company to potentially take 
advantage of corporate and technological 
opportunities as they may arise.
Divestment
The divestment occurred because the Board 
believed and continues to believe that the 
Company will obtain a better return for its 
shareholders by investing the proceeds 
received from the transaction in the continuing 
development of VAL101 and VAL201 and 
to see their development progress towards 
those respective value inflection points that 
exist across the portfolio. 
VAL201
As has been reported in recent months, our trial 
protocol for our lead therapeutic, VAL201, has 
expanded significantly following advice from the 
principal investigators at University College 
Hospital, London and from the Medicines 
and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency 
(“MHRA”). The trial has been expanded to 
include not just patients with prostate cancer 
but also patients with other solid tumours, 
such as breast cancer. 
ValiRx is a growing company with
a clear  business model.
Our business model has evolved to become a solid and reliable way to 
increase the Company’s growth potential, while maintaining the desire 
to meet the demand and fill an important gap in the market.
Reduce risk in new
product development 
through a rigorous clinical 
and commercial due 
diligence process
1
Select drug
candidates and 
technologies with 
evidence-based potential 
to address the unmet 
needs of the market
2
Maximise returns 
to shareholders by adding 
value at the earlier stages 
where value increases per 
investment unit are
the greatest
3 06 ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s report continued
Discovery Product Optimisation Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II
VAL201 prostate/breast cancer
VAL201 endometriosis
VAL101 apoptosis inducer
Nav3 cancer biomarker
GeneICE discovery platform
• Regulatory filing for clinical trials ongoing
• Clinical production of compound in place
• Preliminary toxicology profile shows positive fertility
• Positive fertility tested
• Several potential cancer indications
• Orphan drug potential
• Diagnostic potential for several indications
• Prototype kit in place and tested
•  Drug discovery tool technology 
for product pipeline
COMPLETED
ValiRx product pipeline
VAL201 continued
In addition, the end points of the study 
have widened to give us an early indication 
of the efficacy of VAL201 in arresting and 
reducing tumour growth. Our number one 
priority in 2014 is to progress the compound 
through its expanded clinical trials and 
beyond whilst, in parallel, we will look to 
continue our dialogue with pharmaceutical 
companies vis‑à‑vis future partnering or 
out‑licensing opportunities.
VAL101 and GeneICE
We have also been advancing pre‑clinical 
studies of VAL101, one of our GeneICE 
drug candidates, with the support of another 
European Union Eurostars grant. The grant for 
€1.6m was announced on 15 August 2013 
and it endorses VAL101’s novelty and potential 
and will enable ValiRx to accelerate the drug’s 
development to build the associated cancer 
models and hopefully to provide new hope 
for patients with orphan cancers. 
Biomarkers
Biomarkers continue to be evaluated by our 
subsidiary company, ValiFinn, which is based 
in Finland, and we were pleased to announce 
recently that ValiFinn has identified companion 
diagnostics for VAL201, which potentially 
could be commercialised or licensed to 
other pharmaceutical companies.
Outlook
In what has been a busy year, I am happy 
to see the team’s hard work rewarded 
with strong progress in our programme 
development activities. We will continue to 
energetically move our compounds forward 
to their next stage, whilst remaining alert for 
opportunities and ways in which to further 
grow the Company and enhance shareholder 
value. I look forward to ValiRx’s continued 
progress and development with both 
excitement and confidence.
Dr Satu Vainikka
Chief Executive
19 March 2014
“ In what has been a
 busy year, I am happy
 to see the team’s hard
 work rewarded with
 strong progress in
 our programme
 development activities”
