 ValiRx plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4
Chairman’s report
2012 was a good year for the Company and 
I am pleased to report on the solid progress 
achieved during the period, with performance 
much in line with expectations and with 
VAL201 advancing into ﬁrst in-human trials.
ValiRx continues to develop pleasingly on 
a number of fronts. 
The Group continues to explore and 
develop its platforms for drug discovery 
and development. ValiRx is seeking to drive 
greater shareholder value by conducting the 
clinical development of our lead compound 
VAL201 in its ﬁrst potential indication, rather 
than by out-licensing its compounds at this 
stage. The Company has also advanced the 
pre-clinical development of its lead GeneICE 
therapeutic compound VAL101 as well 201 
for two secondary indications. 
During the year, the company consolidated 
its biomarker unit in Finland through the 
acquisition of Pharmatest Services, together 
with certain associated intellectual property 
assets. Strategically, the acquisition has 
enhanced the Company’s R&D capability 
as the specialist expertise within the unit is 
leveraged to advance the companion diagnostics 
to complement therapeutic development. 
Furthermore, the Company is delighted 
to report that it has attracted and is now 
working with a team of internationally 
recognized experts in Oncology and the 
Group is already feeling the beneﬁt of their 
collaboration, counsel and support.
In April 2012, we completed a placing through 
our broker Hybridan, to raise GBP 900,000 
(before expenses). In November, ValiRx 
announced a second placing, again 
through Hybridan, to raise £2.03m, 
which will enable the Company to fund 
its clinical development.
In October, we were pleased to announce 
that ValiMedix, had entered into a UK 
distribution agreement with First Health 
Products Limited. The ﬁve-year agreement 
means that the Company will no longer incur 
any of the direct expenses associated with 
the sales and marketing campaigns of the 
SELFCheck products.
Our progress during the period under review 
has been very encouraging and I am delighted 
that the business continues to more ﬁrmly 
establish itself and is now in a better position 
to take full advantage of opportunities as 
they arise. I look forward to seeing our lead 
therapeutics continue to progress and our 
position in the biotechnology market strengthen 
further. I look to the future with much conﬁdence.
On a personal note, I would like to thank 
our executive team, clinical advisors and 
members of the board for the support, 
hard work and signiﬁcant contribution 
each has made to the business over 
the last twelve months.
N Thorniley 
Non-exec Chairman
ValiRx plc
27 March 2013
“ 2012 was a good year for the company and 
I look to the future with much conﬁdence.”
Our goals for 2013
  Clinical phase of VAL201
  Complete Pre-clinical of VAL101
  Pipeline of 2/3 development programmes Pre-clinical
  Development of biomarkers as companion diagnostics 
for personalised therapeutics
  Expand IP portfolio and value
  Agreements with development and clinical partners
  Development of biomarker diagnostics
  Value uplift from preclinical to clinical  
development phase
