 During the last twelve months 
we have made positive operational strides with
increased underground development rates and
large increases in underground ore mined.
However, despite these achievements, the
mining constraints we faced at the Vatukoula
Gold Mine prevented us from achieving our
production target.  
As such, resolving these issues became a top priority for our
Management team during this year, ensuring the mine enters
2012 in a position to grow and deliver to our long term targets.
The improvements, made mostly during the second half of the
year, included the recruitment of additional personnel to our
technical team, the introduction of improved mining disciplines,
and a number of Senior Management changes.  We are
confident that these actions will build a solid foundation from
which to expand our production.
Operating and Financial Performance
VGM sold 53,461 ounces of gold in the year at an average cost
of US$1,349 per ounce.  The main driver to the higher cash cost
per ounce was the increased development metres achieved
during the year which delivered lower grades to the mill.
Operating costs on a per tonne basis have increased to US$145
on an overall basis; however, this increase is primarily because
of the increased amount of underground ore mined and milled
as a percentage of the total ore mined.  The positive movement
of the gold price mitigated some of the higher cost base with our
operating cash outflow for the year being £2.3 million with a
year-end cash position of £6.9 million. During the year our
Mineral Resource base increased by 6% to 4.2 million ounces,
of which 790,000 ounces are classified as Mineral Reserves.
Development of the Vatukoula Gold Mine
The Mine Management team and Senior Team Leaders set
about an aggressive underground mining programme that
resulted in the mining this year of 427,685 tonnes of
underground ore and waste, a 40% increase over the previous
year.  As is expected, the company mined more waste and less
gold bearing ore body, principally because the quality of the
underground infrastructure necessary for us to recover higher
grades within the ore body itself was not sufficiently or
previously put in place. 
The measures we have taken
during the year and in particular
in the last quarter we believe 
will result in increased
production levels and lower 
costs in the coming year.
10 VATUKOULA GOLD MINES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Vatukoula Layout 2011 1.7_Layout 1  30/12/2011  12:39  Page 10 Any underground mine requires a huge input of infrastructure
building long before production commences. We were aware
that insufficient development was available to provide for
flexible and sustainable long-term operations. Therefore a
development catch-up programme was agreed at all levels,
and was targeted to be complete within six months.  This
objective was not realised as development rates that were
envisioned were not practically achievable.
Development, although not conducted at the rate required,
was substantial in the year under review. A total of over 24,000
metres was achieved, a threefold increase over the previous
year. Development at the mine has historically been
undertaken on the ore body, called strike drives.  This has been
considered the best practice, for a number of reasons: Firstly
the ore body at the mine is generally shallow dipping resulting
in the alternative, a footwall drive, being developed too far
away from the ore body; secondly, the development along the
ore body gives a good cross sectional ore grade evaluation,
which gives the mine a better evaluation of the ore body before
mining; and finally because less waste material is mined during
this type of mining.  
In future, using strike development, the mine will be targeting a
ratio of 30% development tonnage to 70% from mining
operations.  The rate at the beginning of the year was the
reverse. 
Because of the combination of a high rate of development to
create the infrastructure required, which resulted in diluted
grade due to development, and the dilution from development
of the up-dip stopes, the overall grade of the year under review
was below our forecast.
We have instigated a number of measures to assist mining,
and in particular grade control.  We have returned our stope
mining to traditional longwall stopes, with the addition that we
are designing new stopes to produce over a much longer time
horizon. This involves longer setting up – but we believe it will
provide smoother production when commissioned.  Added to
this is the use of truck chutes for the loading of ore, which will
assist in our heavy equipment availability. 
VATUKOULA GOLD MINES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 11
Overview Performance Governance
Financial Statements
& Other Information
Any underground mine requires a
huge input of infrastructure building
long before production commences.
Insufficient development was
available to provide for flexible and
sustainable long-term operations.
Vatukoula Layout 2011 1.7_Layout 1  30/12/2011  12:39  Page 11 Mine Management has introduced a number of additional
initiatives to reduce dilution, including stricter control of mining
areas and split blasting in development drives.  We have also
initiated in one section on a trial basis, the use of footwall drive
development as opposed to strike development. We look
forward to assessing the results of this trial program.
Overall, I am satisfied with the progress toward the long-term
future of the mines’ underground operations.  It is
management’s objective to place the underground mine into a
continuous sustainable production level. There will be additional
capital requirements for the underground mine going forward.
We have already highlighted the 18 level decline to access new
areas in the Philip Shaft. In the medium to long term we will also
be required to upgrade and refurbish the ventilation system at
the mine, and continue to increase our knowledge of the Mineral
Resources at the Vatukoula Gold Mine.
Sustainable Power
During the period, the proposed power project to be developed
by the Fiji Sugar Corporation (“FSC”) at the nearby Rarawai
Sugar Mill was the subject of a bankable feasibility study.  The
project has been designed to produce sufficient power for both
the Rarawai Mill and VGM.  The capital cost is estimated to be
in the region of US$130 to US$160 million depending on an
owner build or construction contractor option. Construction is
scheduled to begin in calendar 2013 subject to finance.  The
FSC is currently in negotiations to secure finance, with VGM
looking to enter into a long term off take agreement and if
possible acquire an interest in the project.
We believe that a long-term power supply from a source that is
not beholden to the international hydrocarbon price would
provide a large benefit to the long-term operations at the
Vatukoula Gold Mine, through lowered operating costs.  
Exploration
In January 2011, VGM began the first exploration programme
for over a decade. The main targets for this programme were
extensions to existing as well as new surface oxide
mineralization, underground high-grade ore bodies adjacent to
existing resources, and previously drilled exploration targets on
VGM’s Special Prospecting Licenses.
12 VATUKOULA GOLD MINES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Drilling on the Special Prospecting
Licenses began in the latter half of
the year and post the year end we
announced preliminary results related
to the discovery of a series of new ore
bodies at the Vatukoula Gold Mine.
Vatukoula Layout 2011 1.7_Layout 1  30/12/2011  12:39  Page 12 Encouraging progress has been made on all of these targets.
We completed a 60-hole surface oxide drill campaign which
covered approximately 520,000 m
2
.  The results from this
campaign are currently being reviewed and we aim to be able
to deliver a resource statement during the coming year. The
drilling on the underground targets also yielded positive results
indicating further extensions of both the Matanagata and
Prince flatmakes.  As part of our exploration programme in the
coming year both of these ore bodies are being targeted. 
Drilling on the Special Prospecting Licenses began in latter half
of the year and post the year end we announced the
preliminary results related to the discovery of a series of new
ore bodies at the Vatukoula Gold Mine. Further drilling of these
targets will be carried out during the year to better define the
geometry of these structures and their full economic potential.
Strengthening the Management Team
During the last quarter of the year, we began the process of
strengthening our management team at the Vatukoula Gold
Mine.
In July, Mr. David Whittle was appointed as General Manager
of the Vatukoula Gold Mine.  Mr. Whittle has vast experience in
underground mining and has managed mining operations in
the Pacific Islands.  His underground experience will assist in
placing the Vatukoula Gold Mine in the long-term sustainable
position that we are looking to achieve. Toward the end of the
year, we also made some key appointments in the Geological,
Mine Planning, Maintenance, and Supply Departments.  With
these appointments, we believe that we now have in place a
management team with the required experience, professional
skill set and hunger to develop the mine and deliver on its full
potential.
North American Listing
We still envisage that we will apply for an additional listing on a
North American market as we believe that this will provide
exposure to a market with a broad number of comparable
underground gold mining companies.  Full documentation will
be provided to the relevant exchange within the forthcoming
year subject to the mine achieving the improvements in
sustainable mining that we are expecting.
Post Balance Sheet Events
As a result of the actions taken in the last quarter of the
financial year, gold production has improved dramatically.
Higher grades delivered to the mill and lower tonnages have
resulted in the mine producing to target and at a lower cost
than forecast.
Outlook
The last year has been one of significant challenges, which I
believe we have dealt with effectively and decisively.  The
measures we have taken during the year and in particular in
the last quarter we believe will result in increased production
levels and lower costs in the coming year.  More importantly, it
will be a year of laying the solid foundation required to achieve
our strategic objectives of expansion, sustainable production,
operational optimisation, and growth.
The key business objectives and their relation to our
strategic priorities for 2012 are:
Expand
Achieve a production of 65,000 ounces
Achieve a normal and capital development metres of 26,000
metres
Sustain
Begin reserve and resource drilling programme with the
objective of increasing our Mineral Reserve base
Optimise
Continue bio-oxidation leach testing
Further negotiations with FSC with the aim a signing a
memorandum of understanding
Complete tendering process on key consumables at the mine
Grow
Complete Mineral Resource statements on surface deposits
Carry out further drilling on key target identified during the
current year
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of the operating staff at
the Vatukoula Gold Mine for their commitment enthusiasm and
enormous effort in what has been a challenging year in the
development of the business.  I would also like to thank the
Board, for their support, advice, and commitment throughout
the year.  
David Karl Paxton
Chief Executive Officer
12 December 2011
VATUKOULA GOLD MINES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 13
Overview Performance Governance
Financial Statements
& Other Information
Vatukoula Layout 2011 1.7_Layout 1  30/12/2011  12:39  Page 13
