 Colin Orr-Ewing
Non-Executive Chairman
08
Chairman’s Statement
In December 2011, I wrote that many of the
democracies of the World were discovering
the benefits of the printing press. This
discovery would be beneficial to the price of
gold in the medium-term, as gold regained
its historic role as a store of value. 
Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.vgmplc.com
Whenever politicians cloak an
action with a new description,
warning bells ring. Quantitative
Easing has become the
acceptable name for ‘printing
money’. What does it mean?
Easing means reducing pain or
difficulty; quantitative means
‘relating to or concerned with
quantity’. The complete phrase
therefore means ‘reducing the
pain or difficulty by adjusting 
the quantity of something’,
presumably money: a
wonderfully opaque description
for debasing the value of
currency.
Last year, I reflected that global gold
production had not varied very greatly year
on year; 4,000 tonnes were mined in 2003
and 4,500 tonnes in 2011. Global reserves
of gold total approximately 171,000
tonnes, held by various groups in the
commercial, fiscal and investment sectors:
jewellery accounts for 50%, the Central
Banks 17% and private investors 19%.
The re-branding of gold as ‘money’ is
reflected in the records of the Central
Banks. From 1990 until 2007, Central
Banks were net sellers of gold. Since 2008,
they have been net buyers of gold,
averaging purchases of about 400 tonnes
a year. It is not clear who supervises the
accounts of the Central Banks, as some of
them, including the Federal Reserve Bank,
are still privately owned.
Whilst there has been a tightening in the
availability of gold in reserve form, the
precious metal ore has become
increasingly difficult to find. During the
1990s, it was common to have global
discoveries of 100 million ounces per year.
In 2009, an additional 19 million ounces
were discovered, but this fell to 10 million
ounces in 2010 and perhaps 3 million
ounces in 2011. With the difficulty of Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements & Other Information
09
www.vgmplc.com
discovering new reserves has come the
realisation that the ‘low-hanging fruit’ has
already been discovered and that grades
of new discoveries are likely to follow the
path of the last few years, trending
downwards from 2.2g/t in 2002 to perhaps
1.4 g/t in 2011.
Not only has success with the drill bit
proved globally elusive, but the cost of
extracting that gold has also climbed
dramatically. Cash costs are always used
when comparing gold companies’
performances, but in reality total costs
should be used for peer group
comparisons. The average total cost of
producing an ounce of gold was over
US$1,000 per ounce in 2011 and is likely
to be about US$1,300 for 2012. In 2002,
the total cost of producing an ounce of
gold was US$500. In addition there was a
recent study by CIBC that put the
replacement cost for an ounce of gold right
at US$1,700. 
This year has been a difficult one for
Vatukoula. Grades extracted from the mine
remained static as management pressed
ahead to reach the deeper, richer grades in
the lower levels of the Philip Shaft. There
was more careful allocation of ore going
into the mill, with the decline snaking down
to Level 20 in Philip Shaft. This is the ‘guts’
of the mine, where the mine planners have
been concentrating development. It has
been apparent for some time that the mine
would need more investment and since
March 2012 management has been in
discussion with strategic shareholders in
the Far East. A Chinese investment
company, Zhongrun Resource Investment
Company (“Zhongrun”) subscribed for 9
million shares in April 2012. 
I am happy to report that post year-end
Zhongrun, has taken up a further
placement of 20 million shares. Together
these investments make Zhongrun the
largest shareholder in the Company, with a
holding of approximately 25%. Dave
Paxton, our CEO, will address this and the
general operational record in his own
statement.
Moving forward, I am confident that the
actions of our Mine Management and
Operational Teams took this year,
supported by the Board, will help to
position your company to meet its
production targets. 
As we go into 2013, I remain optimistic
about the prospects for our industry, and in
particular, our company.  Once again, I
take this opportunity to thank our hard
working and dedicated team and
acknowledge the support provided to the
company by all our stakeholders and
suppliers.
Colin Orr-Ewing
Non-Executive Chairman
9 January 2013
