 Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
8
www.vgmplc.com
During the last twelve months 
the operations at the Vatukoula 
Gold Mine have been severely 
hampered by the lack of capital 
to undertake the necessary 
development required to 
establish production levels 
to our targeted rate. At the 
beginning of the year we were 
waiting for the funding that 
had been agreed to by a Hong 
Kong based mining investment 
company but unfortunately 
those funds never materialised.
As discussed in my last commentary we 
established that a major capital program 
was required to undertake the development 
required. The mining plan for the year was 
based on a development program over 
18 months, opening up major new areas for 
long term mining at Vatukoula. Due to the 
delay in the funding this program was delayed. 
At the end of the year, a full twelve months 
later, the program has not been commenced.
It is a credit to all the mine staff, from the 
General Manager to the trainees for the 
support that they have given to the Company 
during this trying time. We have been forced, 
due to lack of funds, to severely reduce 
our stock levels, which have impacted on 
underground equipment availability. Ore mining 
has been undertaken on a limited ‘where 
available’ basis. Exploration drilling was also 
halted in order to maintain funds. The lack of 
drill data compounded the planning for new 
development.
Operating and Financial 
Performance
VGM sold 39,517 ounces of gold in the year 
at an average cost of US$1,606 per ounce. 
The main driver to the lower cost per ounce 
was the lower operating costs per tonne which 
decreased to US$148 per tonne.
Chief Executive Officer’s 
Statement
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   8 12/02/2014   15:45 9
Overview
Performance
Governance
Financial Statements & Other Information
Notice of General Meeting & Proxy
www.vgmplc.com
The negative movement of the gold price 
further exacerbated the lower production 
figures, with our gross loss for the year being 
£1.2 million. After administrative expenses, 
foreign exchange gains and depreciation 
and amortisation expenses the underlying 
operating loss was £12.6 million.
The lack of funds affected our underground 
fleet most severely. Without being able to 
maintain our stock levels, we were forced 
to ‘rob Peter to pay Paul’ with underground 
equipment. Critical parts that were required 
had to be ordered and air freighted to site at 
an additional cost.
We also continued to face issues as a result 
of the lack of resource definition, another 
capital item that we placed on hold during 
the year. One such example occurred in the 
Matanagata ore body, in Smith section. Our 
new footwall development was undertaken at 
the required elevation as defined in the Mineral 
Resource model. The ore body was identified 
a high grade ore body. Ore was exposed in 3 
crosscuts at the location as expected. Raises 
were initiated, including the ore passes and 
truck chutes as required.
However the exposed ore body did not 
reconcile to the Mineral Resource model and 
was not at a mineable grade. The development 
was halted for further investigation, and follow 
up underground drilling initiated.
It was discovered that the ore body we 
developed was a split of the main ore body 
and not the main Matanagata ore body. The 
main ore body was in fact 18 meters above 
this split. The area in question has been 
developed to the correct elevation and has 
commenced mining. However this example 
shows the fraught nature of blind developing 
at Vatukoula and shows how vital resource 
drilling is.
Development of the Vatukoula 
Gold Mine
Despite the lack of funds VGM still managed to 
carry out some additional capital development. 
We continued the development on the new 
lower levels at Philip Shaft, and the clearing of 
the lower levels at Smith Shaft. The key area 
for mining will be the lower levels at Philip, 
between 18 and 20 level. We are clearing the 
shaft above 20 level. Once cleared we will 
install new shaft furniture, including tipping 
points. This will become a major production 
level as planned in our 7 year mine plan. This 
area is considered a high grade area and will 
account for a significant portion of the gold 
produced at Vatukoula in that 7 year plan. 
Development in the lower levels is undertaken 
cautiously, due to the potential of hot water. 
The amount of water is not significant – but 
the heat can make the operating conditions 
difficult. Our program is to either seal the 
area, or to drain the water and remove – so 
removing the heat from the area. We have 
found that once ore mining operations 
commence – the draining technique works 
best.
For the Philip Shaft sections, comprising 
Prince, Prince William, Cayzer Prince and all 
of the associated ore bodies access to the 
20 level station at Philip Shaft was a vital first 
step. We have completed the development 
to the 20 level station, and started some of 
the development required on both 19 and 
20 levels. The decline from 18 to 20 level will 
become one of the key access routes for the 
long term profitability at Vatukoula for a long 
future. We have exposed the original 20 level 
station, and we are cleaning out the spillage in 
the shaft between 18 and 20 levels. This has 
been very difficult with the limited equipment 
available to us, and has been completed when 
we have equipment available only. 20 level in 
the Philip Shaft will become a major production 
centre. This station will service all of the new 
mining of the high grade ore bodies at levels 
between 18 level down to 23 level, as detailed 
in our 7 year plan.
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   9 12/02/2014   15:45 10
www.vgmplc.com
Sustainable Power
A major expenditure at the Vatukoula Gold 
Mine is the cost of power generation. Diesel 
fuel is imported and used to generate power 
at the mine. This has costed up to F$0.70 
per kilo watt. The major uses for power 
are pumping, hoisting and mill processing. 
Numerous opportunities exist for the reduction 
of power use at the Vatukoula Gold Mine, but 
the biggest factor would be the reduction in the 
cost of power. We have investigated a number 
of options, however the use of biomass 
appears to be the most practical.
The FSC has designed a 40MW power 
biomass project at the nearby Rurawai 
Sugar plant, specifically designed to provide 
Vatukoula with the power required. However, at 
this time the FSC has not initiated construction.
We are fully aware that a power source, 
which is not at the behest of the international 
hydrocarbon price is essential for the long 
term profitability of VGM. Investigations toward 
possible solutions have been placed as a major 
priority.
Health & Safety
I would also like to thank the health and safety 
department for their diligent work over the 
past year. We have seen a major improvement 
in our accident statistics. One accident is 
one too many – and the focus of safety for all 
employees by all employees is one that we 
strive to achieve.
Financing
I would like to thank our largest shareholders 
for the support given to the Group at a very 
critical time. Although we had a positive 
independent engineers report confirming that 
our development plans and the production 
targets were achievable, we were unable to 
secure a suitable financial package to provide 
for our plans. Zhongrun stepped into the 
breach, and on behalf of all of the employees, 
their families and the communities that 
surround the Vatukoula Gold Mine I give my 
heartfelt thanks. Zhongrun now owns over two 
thirds of VGM, but without their investment the 
future would have been distressed.
Post Balance Sheet Events
Subsequent to year-end VGM completed the 
first tranche of the US$ 40 million financing 
with the issue of 188,897,000 new ordinary 
shares at a subscription of 6.89 pence per 
share, raising approximately £13 million. The 
second tranche was due for completion at the 
end of January 2014, we have subsequently 
agreed with Zhongrun that they will deliver 
these funds by the end of February 2014.
On 3 February 2014 we appointed Xuexin 
(Kevin) Zhu as General Manager of the 
Vatukoula Gold Mine. Xuexin is a professional 
mining engineer and PMI certified Project 
Management Professional with over twenty 
years’ experience in corporate management, 
mine planning, engineering design, 
construction and operation management of 
open pit and underground precious and base 
metal mines.
The board would like to thank the outgoing 
General Manager, David Whittle, for his 
efforts and the progress that has been made 
at the Vatukoula Gold Mine. Under difficult 
Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   10 12/02/2014   15:45 11
Overview
Performance
Governance
Financial Statements & Other Information
Notice of General Meeting & Proxy
www.vgmplc.com
financial circumstances David Whittle has 
improved many key operating and safety 
measures which will stand us in good stead 
going forward. In particular his focus on the 
development of the higher grade Cayzer prince 
ore-body forms part of the building blocks to 
increase production in the coming years.
Outlook
2013 was a difficult year for VGM in terms of 
achieving our targets that we set out at the 
beginning of the year. With limited financing we 
were not able to hit our production targets.
Looking forward, the investment by Zhongrun 
allows us to make the necessary adjustments 
and positions the Company to increase 
production in 2014. The mine has a number of 
world class ore bodies, any one of which could 
be a mine by itself. The mine is very shallow 
in international mining standards. Deeper 
drilling has shown the continuation of ore 
bodies at depths of double our current deepest 
mining depth and exploration at Vatukoula 
has identified some very high grades. Recent 
re-examination of the central Caldera has 
identified some indications of porphyry ore 
bodies and exploration will be undertaken in 
these areas over the coming year.
It is the development that we have achieved 
in the year that will assist in opening high-
grade areas that will sustain production in the 
longer term. Over the coming first half year 
ending February 2014 this increase in capital 
development will continue to negatively impact 
our gold production. Subsequent to this, 
production from the Cayzer Prince ore body 
will come on stream and production should 
increase to targeted production levels.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of the 
operating staff at the Vatukoula Gold Mine for 
their commitment, enthusiasm and enormous 
effort in what has been a challenging year in 
the development of the business. I would also 
like to thank the Board for their support, advice 
and commitment throughout the year.
David Karl Paxton
Chief Executive Officer
3 February 2014
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   11 12/02/2014   15:45
