 The German-American economist Hans
Sennholz once said: “For more than two
thousand years gold’s natural qualities made it
man’s universal medium of exchange. In
contrast to political money, gold is honest
money that survived the ages and will live on
long after the political fiats of today have gone
the way of all paper.”
Fiat money is defined as money, either paper or coin, made
legal tender and assigned a value by government decree. This
places a huge responsibility on governments, who are inclined
to take on obligations that they are unable to fulfil and having
done so have to reduce the value of those same obligations by
reducing the value of the currency. When questioned in the
USA on the plans that the Federal Reserve Bank had to put the
economy back on its feet, Mr Bernanke (Chairman of the
Federal Reserve) said that he had a wonderful invention for that
very problem, the printing press (his words not mine).
Governments can create “fiat money” much faster than mining
companies can mine gold. Even in exceptional years the world
gold production only rises in single figure percentages,
whereas governments can increase available credit by
hundreds of percentages points. The “gold bubble” frequently
quoted is in reality the result of a paper money bubble, with
gold trying to maintain its value as against the shifting values of
the various reserve currencies. The paper currencies have
fulfilled one of the primary functions of money in providing a
medium of exchange but have singularly failed to provide the
equally important function of being a store of value. Gold has
re-entered the money world by providing a store of value. Over
the next few years the older countries of Europe are likely to be
forced to reduce their central bank gold holdings to shore up
their currencies with the gold flowing to the coffers of the
emerging markets.
I am confident that the actions our
Mine Management and Operational
Teams took this year, supported by
the Board, will help to position your
Company to meet its yearly target
of 100,000 ounces of production.
08 VATUKOULA GOLD MINES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Whilst we have taken steps to
improve our mining operation, we
have also invested in an exploration
programme designed to help find
new resources and help extend our
life of mine operations in Fiji.
Vatukoula Layout 2011 1.7_Layout 1  30/12/2011  12:39  Page 8 Although the gold price has been buoyant over the last year,
smaller capitalised gold mining companies haven't reflected
this and I am frequently being asked why. I think the reason lies
in the creation of the Gold ETF Funds that have siphoned off a
lot of investment money into direct holdings of gold; since the
security and ease of holding gold has improved. The speed
that sizeable amounts of money can enter and leave the
market is also helpful to performance funds and bypasses the
difficulties faced in buying equity shareholdings in smaller
mining companies with their attendant risks. However this will
change when the cash flows in the industry allow the payment
of dividends to shareholders.
Following a year of consolidation, we set out our accelerated
development programme with a view to be producing 100,000
ounces of gold per year.  That objective continues to be in our
sights but as yet has not been achieved.  VGM shipped a total
of 53,461 ounces of gold in the year under review.
Following the appointment in July 2011 of our new General
Manager, David Whittle, we commenced a review of our mining
operations in consultation with the senior mine operations team.
The review was designed to see how we could re-position our
mining activities in order to both meet the targets that had been
set and optimize our operations in the short and long term. 
Toward the end of the year, we introduced a number of
initiatives to reduce dilution and increase the grade mined.
These included split-firing of development drives, improved
staff motivation, improved mining practices and the
reintroduction of sweeping teams to remove the remaining
material in mined stopes.  These methods will help reduce our
cash cost per ounce and ensure we mine less waste and
produce more gold bearing ore. 
The purchase of two development machines, one of which was
on site and operating prior to year-end, enhanced our
mechanised mining approach. This will help to overcome some
of the shortfalls we encountered in our below ground
infrastructure.  This, coupled with the condensing of the mine
development plan at the Phillip Shaft, will combine to help
create better circumstances for our operation to deliver higher
grades and production output over the medium term.
Whilst we have taken steps to improve our mining operation,
we have also invested in an exploration programme designed
to help find new resources and help extend our life of mine
operations in Fiji. 
Moving forward, I am confident that the actions our Mine
Management and Operational Teams took this year, supported
by the Board, will help to position your Company to meet its
yearly target of 100,000 ounces of production. With a
promising horizon of new ore body discoveries, such as that
announced in October 2011, we look forward to many more
years of profitable production from the Vatukoula Gold Mine.
As we go into 2012, I remain optimistic about the prospects of
our industry and in particular our company.  We need to apply
the hard lessons learned to overcome the challenges we will
face during the coming year and deliver against the potential of
our asset base. 
Once again, I take this opportunity to thank all our hard
working and dedicated staff, operations and management and
acknowledge the support provided to our company by our
various stakeholders and suppliers.
Colin Orr-Ewing
Executive Chairman
12 December 2011
VATUKOULA GOLD MINES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 09
Overview Performance Governance
Financial Statements
& Other Information
Vatukoula Layout 2011 1.7_Layout 1  30/12/2011  12:39  Page 9
