 4
www.vgmplc.com
Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Dear Shareholders,
This is my first annual 
statement as VGM Chairman, 
having taken over from Colin 
Orr-Ewing as non-executive 
chairman of the board at the 
end of May 2013. I am honoured 
to serve as chairman of VGM 
and to tackle the challenges 
that VGM may encounter during 
one of the more difficult periods 
in the gold mining sector. 
Nonetheless I have a firm belief 
in the Vatukoula Gold Mine and 
its potential. In a recent report, 
by Natural Resource Holdings 
Ltd, the Vatukoula Gold Mine 
was ranked 212th in terms of 
minerals resources among 580 
mines, and ranked 29th among 
the top 50 producing mines by 
grade.
Introduction to the role
As part of my planned introduction to the 
role of chairman, I have had the opportunity 
to spend some time at the Vatukoula Gold 
Mine in Fiji, and to meet with many of its 
senior leaders in a range of forums. I have 
been extremely impressed by the enthusiasm 
and professionalism by many of the Group’s 
managers.
I have also been able to meet most of the 
Company’s larger shareholders. Keeping in 
touch with investors is an essential part of my 
role and I intend to maintain regular contact 
with them in future.
Market and economy
During this financial year we have seen a 
downward pressure on the gold price. This is 
despite evidence that shows a very positive 
increase in consumer demand and only a 
moderate increase in supply. However financial 
and investment demand has fallen which has 
been the primary driver for the negative price 
trend and, as such, I believe that in the short 
term the gold price is going to be dominated 
by unpredictable economic shocks and 
political shocks and an element of speculation 
amongst traders.
Nonetheless commodity prices have always 
been cyclical in nature and the gold market 
is no exception. If the past events are any 
indication for the future, the gold market has 
now reached its bottom, and is poised to 
recover in the future years. Why? Over the 
last 20 years since 1993, we have witnessed 
three major cycles for gold markets. In January 
1996, gold price reached its 7-year high at 
US$403 per ounce. A bear market followed, 
triggered by the 1997 Asian financial crisis. In 
January 2001, gold price reached its bottom at 
US$253 per ounce. This represents a 37.2% 
correction from its previous high. Then the 
gold price embarked on an initially gradual and 
later accelerated rise. In February 2008, gold 
price reached its 20 year high at US$973 per 
ounce. This represents a 141% rise from its 
2001 price. This new high was followed by a 
major corrective phase triggered by the US 
financial crisis. In October 2008, gold price 
dropped to US$732 per ounce, representing 
a 24.8% correction over its previous high. This 
correction is then followed by another bull run 
in the gold market. In July 2011, gold price 
reached another new high of US$1,838 ounce, 
representing a 151% rise over its previous low; 
3 quarters later in April 2013, because of the 
US monetary policy, the gold price fell to as 
low as US$1, 206 per ounce, representing a 
34.4% drop from its previous high.
I believe that we can conclude from the above 
events that with each major correction of 
25% to 40% in gold price, a major bull run 
of over 100% could follow, with initial price 
consolidation at the bottom and later an 
Chairman’s Statement
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   4 12/02/2014   15:45 5
Overview
Performance
Governance
Financial Statements & Other Information
Notice of General Meeting & Proxy
www.vgmplc.com
accelerated rise. If history repeats itself, the 
gold price might rise to a US$2,000 per ounce 
level following the current consolidation.
Another major factor influencing the gold price 
is China’s strategy is to make its Renminbi 
(“RMB”) freely exchangeable and as an 
international reserve currency. The Chinese 
government has been preparing for this since 
1996 when China made RMB exchangeable 
under current account. To achieve its goal, 
China would have to substantially increase its 
current gold holding of 1,054 tonnes, which 
represents 1.2% of China’s total foreign reserve 
of US$3.662 trillion in September 2013. In 
comparison, gold holding accounts for 50% to 
70% of foreign reserves for the US and most 
of the European Union countries. In order to 
increase its gold holding to the global average 
of 10% of foreign reserves, China needs to 
acquire an additional 7,706 tonnes of gold, in 
par with the US gold holding of 8,133 tonnes.
Financial Performance
The continued downward pressure on the gold 
price has made developing and mining at the 
Vatukoula Gold Mines very difficult. Moreover 
the delays in securing the capital investment 
has prevented the mine from embarking on 
its growth strategy which in turn lowered 
production below management expectations. 
The losses this year have increased compared 
to the same period last year, however this was 
driven not by an increase in costs but as a 
result of lower gold prices and lack of capital 
investment which hampered production.
Financing and shareholder 
support
As mentioned at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting the board highlighted that to 
achieve its production targets it would 
require US$40 million for capital investment 
and working capital. While we secured this 
financing we continued to receive support 
from our major shareholders – including DRK 
Energy Co., Limited (“DRK”), who over the 
period under review, invested £4.5 million 
in May 2013 and Zhongrun International 
Mining Co. Ltd (“Zhongrun”), whom invested 
£6.6 million in October 2012 and £1.3 million 
in April 2013.
More importantly this year we finalised 
the US$40 million investment agreement 
with Zhongrun. The investment agreement 
stipulated that the funding will be provided in 
two tranches of approximately US$20 million 
each. The first tranche was completed after 
the year end in November 2013. The second 
tranche was due for completion at the end of 
January 2014, we have subsequently agreed 
with Zhongrun that they will deliver these funds 
by the end of February 2014.
I would personally like to thank both DRK and 
Zhongrun for their continued support in this 
difficult market.
The board
2013 saw change on the board, with the 
retirement of Colin Orr-Ewing and my 
appointment as his replacement. I would like to 
thank Colin for his service to the Group, both 
as chairman since 2004 and before that as a 
director of the Group. Continually refreshing 
is vitally important if a board is to function as 
effectively as possible.
In January 2013, Ian Stalker resigned from 
the board for personal reasons. Ian was 
appointed as a non-executive director in 
2008 and was heavily involved in the initial 
commissioning of operations at the Vatukoula 
Gold Mine. Subsequent to this his experience 
and knowledge was invaluable in planning the 
development of the Vatukoula Gold Mine.
As part of the equity subscription agreement 
announced in October 2012, VGM agreed with 
Zhongrun that they were entitled to propose 
four nominees for election as Directors at the 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). In January 
2013, the following directors were appointed 
as directors of the Group; Mr. Yeung Ng, 
Mr. Fengwen Zheng and myself.
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   5 12/02/2014   15:45 6
www.vgmplc.com
As part of the equity subscription agreement 
announced in May 2013, VGM agreed with 
DRK that they were entitled to nominate two 
directors for appointment to the board. The 
two directors appointed were Mr. Yongan Lu 
and Mr. Wei Li.
In addition, and in order to complete the DRK 
agreement and comply with the shareholder 
agreement with Zhongrun, both of which 
require a board of seven directors, both 
Kiran Caldas Morzaria and John Francis 
Kearney agreed to tender their resignations as 
Directors.
I would like to thank John Kearney for his 
tireless efforts over the past 4 years. He 
contributed immensely to the development 
of the Board and provided the Company with 
valuable guidance and strategic vision.
Although no longer a Director, Kiran Caldas 
Morzaria has remained as the Chief Financial 
Officer of the Group.
I am delighted with these new appointments 
to the board; their qualities will be invaluable to 
the board and to the Group as we continue to 
develop the business.
Strategic Review Committee
2014 will be a time of both change and 
consolidation for the Group. There have been 
a number of changes at both board and Group 
executive committee level and there will be 
new challenges involved in implementing the 
Group’s strategy. 
Subsequent to the year-end VGM agreed with 
Zhongrun to form a strategic review committee, 
which has been reviewing all aspects of the 
Vatukoula Gold Mine. It is anticipated that 
these findings will be made available to the 
board during the second quarter of this year. 
The Group will however continue to grow and 
develop and I have learned in the short time 
that I have been involved with the Company 
that, in this aim, it is well served by a group 
dedicated and professional employees. 
Strategy and key business 
objectives
We have a clear strategy: to deliver to our 
shareholders the full potential of the Vatukoula 
Gold Mine. We aim to achieve this by focusing 
on four key strategic priorities: expand, sustain, 
optimise and grow:
In the coming year our key business 
objectives are:
Expand: To expedite the underground 
development and achieve a total capital 
development of 5,000 metres.
To produce 45,000 ounces of gold.
Sustain: To re-embark on the resource 
definition drilling campaign started in 2011.
Optimise: To review all current suppliers and 
embark on negotiating longer term contracts 
which will improve our operational process flow 
and reduce unit costs.
Grow: Carry out preliminary field work on 
identified gold and copper targets in the Tavua 
basin.
In the longer term our key business 
objectives are:
Expand: To produce 100,000 ounces per 
annum at a cash cost of below US$900 per 
ounce.
Sustain: Continue resource development 
drilling at approximately 20,000 metres per 
annum.
Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   6 12/02/2014   15:45 7
Overview
Performance
Governance
Financial Statements & Other Information
Notice of General Meeting & Proxy
www.vgmplc.com
Optimise: To actively seek investment from 
international utility and power companies for 
building a power plant in Fiji, permanently 
resolving the problem of high power costs.
Grow: To continue our exploration efforts 
to upgrade and increase our 4 million once 
gold Mineral Resource estimate, laying the 
foundation for future mine expansion.
In addition to the above VGM will be seeking 
the opportunity of listing the Company in the 
Asia or North America markets, where gold 
companies command a better company 
valuation.
I firmly believe VGM is poised for growth 
and future success. With 2013 behind us, I 
take this opportunity to thank our employees 
for their tireless efforts and hard work; 
and acknowledge the support provided to 
the Company by all our stakeholders and 
suppliers. 
To all who share our optimism for seizing 
the great opportunities and challenges that 
lie ahead, we say thanks for your continuing 
confidence and support.
Y.B. Ian He
Non-Executive Chairman
3 February 2014
162673 Vatukoula Gold Accounts  FRONT.indd   7 12/02/2014   15:45
