 However during the year we
faced two periods of heavy
rainfall that caused temporary
disruptions in production. The
rainfall, together with
unexpected local geological
variations in the Matanagata ore
body prevented us from
achieving our stated 
production target.
To mitigate against disruptions caused by
heavy  rainfall several initiatives were
introduced to increase pumping capacity
and to limit inflow into mine workings. The
pumping initiatives have exceeded our
expectations and will allow access much
earlier than previously estimated to some
higher-grade areas of the mine that have
been flooded for many years.
Despite the heavy rainfall experienced in
January and April of this year all our main
development drives remain on target. 
Operating and Financial
Performance
VGM sold 52,616 ounces of gold in the
year at an average cost of US$1,627 per
ounce. The main driver to the higher cash
cost per ounce was the increased unit cost
per tonne. Operating costs on a per tonne
basis have increased to US$179 overall;
this increase is primarily driven by higher
fuel prices and heavy vehicle
consumables. Given that on-site diesel
generators provide all our power
requirements, we are particularly sensitive
to medium term increases in fuel prices.
40% of the total increase in mining costs
experienced this year was the result of
higher diesel prices.
The positive movement of the gold price
mitigated some of the effects of higher
cost base, with our gross profit for the year
being £1.4 million. After administrative
expenses, foreign exchange gains and
depreciation and amortisation expenses
the underlying loss was £6.6 million. 
As mentioned before, production was in
part limited by the heavy rainfall in
February and April 2012, which limited
production in the lower Philip shaft area, a
high-grade area of the operations. An
additional shortfall in production can be
attributed to the sterilisation of a planned
mining area in the Mantanagata East ore
body. Operational development was
carried out to access this area, however
following grade control drilling and
geological mapping, it was established
that local geological and structural controls
were not suitable for mineralisation and a
decision was made to suspend further
development and mining in this area of the
Mantanagata East ore body. 
During the year our Mineral Resource base
remained at 4.2 million ounces, however
our Mineral Reserves decreased by 50,000
ounces, mainly due to depletion, to
700,000 ounces.
Development of the Vatukoula 
Gold Mine
This year has been one of continued
development at the Vatukoula Gold Mine,
with increases in total underground tonnes
mined and substantially more in capital
metres developed. We achieved 24,653
metres of total development in the current
year, which was slightly lower than the
yearly target of 26,000 metres as a result 
of the heavy rains of February and April
2012.
Total development at Vatukoula includes
both in-stope development and
infrastructure development. It is
infrastructure development, which is
comprised of strike drive and capital
development that will allow access to new
mining areas and ultimately ensure that the
mine reaches its long-term production
targets. In this regard, we significantly
increased our capital development to
4,975 metres and our strike drive
development decreased slightly to 4,034
metres in the period under review.
10
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 
During the last twelve months we have
made significant operational progress 
with increased capital development rates
and increases in total underground 
tonnes mined. 
Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
www.vgmplc.com
David Karl Paxton
Chief Executive Officer Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements & Other Information
11
www.vgmplc.com
Work on the 18 level Philip Shaft decline
remains on target and is expected to hole
into the bottom of the Philip Shaft in the
first quarter of 2013. This decline will allow
the mine to clean out the historical spillage
and re-equip the Philip Shaft between 18L
and 20L, as well as provide access to the
Prince William and 1500 Split orebodies
below 18L. Cross-cut development to
these orebodies from this decline has
already commenced and is ahead of
current schedules. Decline development
for the high-grade Cayzer/Prince orebody
(which has Proven and Probable Gold
Reserves totalling 100,000 and 130,000
tonnes at grades of 17.80 g/t and 16.85 g/t
respectively) commenced in August and is
currently running ahead of schedule to
allow access for mining from March 2013.
Any underground mine requires the
construction of major infrastructure far in
advance of the commencement of
production and at the end of the last
financial year we stated that it is our
intention to continue our capital investment
programme at the Vatukoula Gold Mine.
This capital investment is expected
ultimately to enable the mine to produce at
our targeted rate of production on a
sustainable and cost-effective basis.
Sustainable Power
During the period the FSC completed a
bankable feasibility study on the proposed
power project at the Rarawai Sugar Mill.
The project has been designed to produce
sufficient power for both the Rarawai Mill
and VGM.  The capital cost is estimated to
be in the region of US$130 million to
US$160 million depending on an owner
build or construction contractor option.
We believe that a long-term power supply
from a source that is not beholden to the
international hydrocarbon price would
provide a significant benefit to the long-
term operations at the Vatukoula Gold
Mine, through lowered operating costs.
The FSC has stated that the Rarawai
Biomasse power project will provide power
to VGM at a cost of F$ 0.23 per kWh (US$
0.12 per kWh). For the current year our
total cost of power at Vatukoula was
approximately F$0.61 per kWh (US$ 0.34
per kWh). 
On 6 March 2012, the FSC formally
announced that it will be partnering VGM
on the Rarawai Biomasse power project.
Vatukoula and the FSC have agreed the
terms of a memorandum of understanding
and we are awaiting formal signature by
the board of the FSC.
Resource Development and
Exploration
During the first quarter of the year our
drilling programme focused on the
continued exploration programme started
in January 2011. The most significant
discovery of this programme was the
intersection of several mineralised
structures which we collectively named the
Nielsen Deposit. Drilling on the Nielsen
Deposit intersected grades as high as
33.60 grams of gold per tonne over 2.86
metres and represents the first major new
discovery at Vatukoula Gold Mines for a
considerable period.
After the first quarter all of our drilling
capacity was focused on the resource
development programme. This drilling
targeted both inferred and unclassified
mineral resources and will be used in the
calculation of the 2013 Mineral Reserve
and Resource estimate. The majority of
this drilling was carried out on the
Matanagata East ore body and was below
management expectations, therefore we
do anticipate that as a result of this drilling
there may be a reduction in mineral
resources in the Matanagata East ore
body. Drilling was also carried out on the
Prince William ore body, these results were
again broadly in line with expectations,
with some encouraging signs of resource
upside potential. 
Post Balance Sheet Events
Subsequent to year-end VGM raised £6
million via the issue of 20 million new
ordinary shares. These shares were placed
with our strategic shareholder, Zhongrun,
which after the issue of these shares has
approximately 25% of the enlarged share
capital of VGM. VGM has also agreed that
Zhongrun will be entitled to propose four
nominees for election as Directors, subject
to the approval by the Nominating
Committee and election by shareholders.
We welcome the continued support of
Zhongrun and look forward to further
developing our valuable strategic
relationship to assist in the development of
the Vatukoula Gold Mine.
Outlook
As is evident from my report we have had
limited success in achieving our targets
that we set out at the beginning of the
year. In particular both our production and
development targets were not achieved, as
a result of unseasonal weather conditions
and local geological variations. However in
other aspects we have been successful,
including the further definition of Mineral
Resources, long term savings achieved
with our explosives suppliers and most
importantly the capital development
achieved during the year which has
remained either ahead of, or on schedule.
It is the development that we have
achieved in the year that will assist in
opening high-grade areas that will sustain
production in the longer term. Over the
coming first half year (February 2013) this
increase in capital development will
continue to impact our gold production,
subsequent to this production from the
Cayzer/Prince ore body will come on
stream and production should increase to
targeted production levels.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of
the operating staff at the Vatukoula Gold
Mine for their commitment, enthusiasm
and enormous effort in what has been a
challenging year in the development of the
business.  I would also like to thank the
Board for their support, advice and
commitment throughout the year.  
The key business objectives and their
relation to our strategic priorities for
2013 are:
Expand
Achieve normal and capital development
metres of 16,500 metres
Sustain
Continue the reserve and resource drilling
programme with the objective of increasing
our Mineral Reserve base
Optimise
Complete signing of memorandum of
understanding with FSC
Negotiate a power off take agreement
Grow
Carry out further drilling on key targets
identified during the current year
David Karl Paxton
Chief Executive Officer
9 January 2013
