 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Our business at a glance
Our focus
Our therapeutic focus is to develop products 
for airways-related diseases. These include major 
diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD), and is a market 
estimated to be worth in excess of US$46bn 
worldwide
1
. This segment of the market covers 
a wide range of other indications including cough, 
severe inflammation, cystic fibrosis, allergic rhinitis,  
and fibrotic diseases of the lung.
How we work
We develop products in-house and in collaboration 
with pharmaceutical partners, leveraging investment 
in our intellectual property and, where possible, 
mitigating the risk of our business. Vectura has eight 
products marketed by partners and a portfolio of 
drugs in clinical development, a number of which 
have been licensed to major pharmaceutical 
companies. The Company’s array of enabling 
devices and formulation technologies significantly 
amplifies the commercial potential of our products. 
These formulation and inhalation technologies are 
available to other pharmaceutical companies on 
an out-licensing basis where this complements 
Vectura’s product development strategy.
1 2 3
We develop We collaborate We innovate
Global respiratory market estimated worth:
US$46bn
Read more about our markets on pages 7 to 9
1 Pharmaview Commercial Landscape Series Respiratory Decision Resources 2013.
Vectura’s vision is to address 
the unmet needs of people 
whose lives are impacted 
by airways diseases.”
‘‘
Read more about our business model on pages 10 to 15
2 3
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Our foundation
At Vectura we bring our values to reality through 
the way we operate.
We have a strong foundation of core company 
values. Everything we do stems from our five key 
values and these are reflected in the way we operate 
our business, both internally and externally, which 
ensures we express clearly our vision and values 
and the behaviours necessary to realise our 
strategic ambitions.
We have identified five core values that build on our 
strengths and highlight areas for transformation.
These values have a corresponding set of behaviours 
that describe what is required at the individual level 
to demonstrate them.
Achievement
We aim to deliver on the challenging goals 
we set ourselves
Enthusiasm
We give our best and enjoy what we’re doing
Participation
Success comes from our culture, which fosters 
creativity and teamwork
Innovation
We think freely and creatively about our goals
Trust and respect
We value people and ideas on their merits
Current partnerships
Ablynx
Baxter
GSK 
Grifols
Kinnovata
Novartis
Sandoz
sterna biologicals
Tianjin KingYork
Ventaleon
UCB
Vectura has disclosed development collaborations, joint ventures and licence agreements 
with several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including:
Work on biologics in the laboratory
3
