 Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 4
Chairman’s Statement
Vedanta is a unique growth story and our proﬁle of
organic growth is unrivalled in the metals and mining
industry. This has been an exciting year for Vedanta.
We have made strong progress and have delivered
on several of our development projects. We continue
to focus on our growth strategy and have moved
forward in all areas. We remain conﬁdent of
continuing to deliver this growth in the year ahead.
At the time of our Listing we set out a four part
strategy. The ﬁrst pillar of our strategy is to optimise
the performance of our existing assets, which
includes the expansions in our copper and zinc
operations. In April 2005, we started commissioning
our copper smelter at Tuticorin and the new 
300,000 tpa facility is producing metal. On 31 May
2005, we announced the commissioning of the new
facilities at Chanderiya, supported by the expanded
output at Rampura Agucha mine. This was
completed around 15% below the forecast budget
of $425 million and well below the benchmark costs
for comparable international projects. We will
continue to look for opportunities to optimise
performance and lower costs in all aspects of 
our operations. 
The second part of our strategy is to complete the
two greenﬁeld projects; the 250,000 tpa aluminium
complex at BALCO, and the new 1 million tpa
alumina plant at Orissa. The facilities at BALCO 
are proceeding on schedule, we are carrying out
technology trials on some of the pots and are
producing metal. The alumina reﬁnery at Orissa 
is also on track and budget. As mentioned in our
April 2005 production report, public interest
submissions regarding environmental clearance are
currently being addressed within a timetable set by
the Supreme Court of India. 
The third pillar of our strategy is the consolidation of
our Group structure and further good progress has
been made over the year. The most signiﬁcant
change came from the $434 million rights issue in
Sterlite which allowed us to increase our Economic
Interest in Sterlite to 81% and to inject funds into
Sterlite for use in our expansion programme. The
exercise of the option in BALCO continues to
proceed with independent valuers having been
appointed by the Government. We will continue to
pursue opportunities to simplify the structure of the
Group where possible.
In November 2004 we completed our acquisition of
Konkola Copper Mines, at a gross cost of
$49.2 million. This forms the fourth pillar of our
strategy; leveraging our existing skills through
investment opportunities. At current high copper
prices Konkola is proﬁtable, but the aim is to place
the operations in a position where they are more
proﬁtable through the commodity cycle and to give
KCM a more solid long-term outlook. Our immediate
focus is to improve processes and stabilise production
levels. There are considerable opportunities for future
development at KCM, including the world class
Konkola Ore Body with resources of 210 million
tonnes containing copper at 3.8%.
During the year the Company received its ﬁrst credit
rating, Baa3/BB, since upgraded to BB+. This placed
us at the Indian sovereign limit, which given the
dominance of Indian assets was as high as could be
expected. We raised $600 million in a bond issue and
the Board believes that we have a well balanced mix
of funding in place for our current expansion
projects. Over the year we have spent $735 million
on our $2.2 billion project pipeline. This brings total
spending to date to $1,029 million. We are conﬁdent
of remaining within our gearing target of under 45%
of Capital Employed throughout our current
spending programme.
We believe that there are several opportunities that
will allow us to develop our growth strategy further
and extend the expansion pipeline. This will take
advantage of the strong cashﬂow that will be
produced as the current projects come into
production and reﬂects the many options that we
have to continue to achieve volume growth in the
long-term.
We are reviewing further aluminium smelting
capacity, to take advantage of the production from
VAL, with the possibility over time of an additional
500,000 tonnes of ﬁnished aluminium per annum.
We also signed a memorandum of understanding
with the State Government of Orissa regarding an
iron ore project with related steel facilities. These are
both at an early stage and any projects will be
pursued on the basis of maintaining positive ﬁnancial
returns. There are opportunities for expansions
elsewhere in our existing operations, and we are
evaluating projects in both zinc and copper. Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 5
Chairman’ s Statement continued
This has been an exceptional period for metal prices
driven by strong demand from China. This has also
had an impact on several input prices, particularly
energy related costs such as oil and coal. There has
been much talk of a super cycle and the potential for
a prolonged period of above average commodity
prices. Our policy is to remain focused on delivering
our new projects and lowering our costs, which will
allow us to take advantage of the signiﬁcant growth
opportunities offered within India and to stay proﬁtable
regardless of the commodity market cycles.
A new Government, led by the Congress party, was
elected in India in May 2004. The new Government
has maintained a policy of growth and liberalisation.
Metal use in India continues to grow above global
levels and the long-term attractions of the Indian
economy remain considerable. India has been much
talked about as an attractive investment destination,
attracting growing levels of foreign investment and
the potential to become a major regional
manufacturing hub. I believe we are well placed both
to take advantage of this growth and also to
contribute to the future development of India by
providing vital basic resources.
In March 2005, I took over as Chairman of the Board
and KK Kaura became Chief Executive. I would like
to thank Michael Fowle, my predecessor as
Chairman, and Jean-Pierre Rodier for their guidance
and input during the past year. Sir David Gore-Booth
sadly died during the year and his counsel will be
greatly missed. I am pleased that we have appointed
three new Non-executive Directors with
complementary experience and we intend to appoint
a further senior independent Non-executive Director
in due course.
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend for the year of
11.55 US cents per Ordinary Share, an increase of
5% on last year’s implied ﬁnal dividend of 11.0 US
cents. Last year we paid a single dividend of 5.5 US
cents per Ordinary Share, for the four months for
which we were listed, equivalent to an annual
payment of 16.5 US cents per Ordinary Share. The
total dividend for the year is 17.05 US cents per
Ordinary Share. The increase in dividend at this early
stage reﬂects the Board’s conﬁdence in continued
successful delivery and we remain committed to a
progressive dividend policy.
The delivery of our projects and the growth of our
business could not have been achieved without the
efforts of the Board, management and employees 
of Vedanta, who have shown great commitment to
building this success.
The success in all areas of our strategy over the past
year has been encouraging and in the next twelve
months we will see progressive beneﬁt from the
recently commissioned facilities at Chanderiya and
Tuticorin and a full year’s contribution from KCM. 
We remain focused on completing Korba and Orissa
as well as evaluating opportunities to extend our
unique growth pipeline. We are conﬁdent of
showing good progress over the next twelve 
months and delivering value to all stakeholders.
Anil Agarwal
Chairman
1 June 2005 Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
Delivering a $2bn 
expansion programme
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 6
Tuticorin copper smelter
The copper operations of Sterlite have now been
signiﬁcantly expanded taking total capacity from
180,000 tpa to 300,000 tpa. The project included
new acid and oxygen plants and a 22.5 MW power
plant. A new cathode reﬁnery of 120,000 tpa 
and 100,000 tpa rod plant have also been built 
at T uticorin.
The site is well placed for export from the nearby 
port of T uticorin. Anode from T uticorin will continue 
to be reﬁned at the existing plant at Silvassa for the
domestic market. Sterlite is already one of the lowest
cost copper producers in the world and the new
facilities should allow costs to be reduced further
towards our target of 6.0 US cents per pound.
Investment
$87m
Sterlite
Tuticorin smelter
INDIA
Rampura Agucha zinc mine
At the heart of the operations at Hindustan
Zinc is the Rampura Agucha mine, a world class
ore body, highly regarded for its consistent and
high grade ores and low cost of production.
Expansion has taken place to increase the
output from the Rampura Agucha mine 
from 2.0 million tpa to 3.75 million tpa. This
will meet the requirements of the new smelting
facility at Chanderiya. 
Drilling work has also been undertaken around
the mine which has taken reserves to 50.1 million
tonnes. This has extended the life of the mine by
three years at the expanded level of production.
Further exploration is being undertaken.
Investment
$90m
Hindustan Zinc
Rampura Agucha Mine
INDIA
Chanderiya zinc smelter
HZL is India’ s only integrated zinc company ,
operating from mine to ﬁnished metal. The ore
produced at the mines contains lead which is
smelted alongside the zinc.
New facilities at Chanderiya were commissioned in
May 2005, taking total zinc capacity from 220,000
tpa to 390,000 tpa. The project was delivered on
time and signiﬁcantly below our budget and the
international benchmarks. HZL is already one of
the lowest cost producers of zinc globally and the
expansion will allow costs to be reduced further .
A new 50,000 tpa lead smelter is also being built,
which will take total capacity to 85,000 tpa and
should be commissioned by the end of the
ﬁnancial year .
Investment
$335m
Hindustan Zinc
Chanderiya zinc smelter
INDIA
COMPLETED
COMPLETED
COMPLETED Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 7
The delivery of this expansion programme is transforming our business,
increasing production across all metals and further lowering costs.
Korba power plant
Aluminium is a signiﬁcant user of power 
and the new facilities at Korba are being
accompanied by a 540 MW power plant, 
to be powered with local coal. 
The total expansion is due to be commissioned
in March 2006, but we anticipate starting to
use the power plant in July 2005. 
The plant consists of four units which will 
be introduced in stages as production at the
new smelter is ramped-up.
Investment
$350m
BALCO
Korba power plant
INDIA
Korba aluminium smelter
The facilities at Korba are being expanded 
with a new 250,000 tpa aluminium smelter 
to take total production from 135,000 tpa to 
385,000 tpa. This new plant uses the latest
technology from GAMI in China.
The project is due to be commissioned in
March 2006 and some of the 288 pots are
already being tested and are producing metal.
The completion of the smelter and power 
plant will transform our Aluminium Business,
increasing output and reducing costs.
Investment
$550m
Orissa alumina refinery
A new alumina reﬁnery is currently under
construction in the State of Orissa, to be
accompanied by a new bauxite mine. 
The operation is being established with 
a capacity of 1.4 million tpa but will initially 
produce 1.0 million tpa. 
The alumina from the reﬁnery will be used 
to feed the new aluminium smelting facilities
at Korba. 
The construction work at the reﬁnery is 
in progress and the project is due to be
commissioned in March 2007. 
Investment
$800m
Vedanta Alumina
Orissa alumina reﬁnery
INDIA
BALCO
Korba aluminium smelter
INDIA
DUE FOR COMMISSIONING MARCH 2006
DUE FOR COMMISSIONING MARCH 2006
DUE FOR COMMISSIONING MARCH 2007
