 5
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Chief Executive’s statement
Vectura has evolved into the 
product-focused company it 
is today. The recent acquisition 
provides important pipeline 
growth and diversification.”
‘‘
Delivering strong results
I am pleased to report on another year of significant progress for the 
Group, which saw a number of key drivers of future growth. We have 
reached the transformational point in Vectura’s evolution, towards a 
specialty pharmaceutical company focused on airways-related diseases, 
and we are now embarking on the execution of that strategy.
Executing the strategy
The history of Vectura, since its formation in 1997, has been one 
of change, adapting to the needs of the industry in which we work. 
Vectura continues to evolve to maximise the value potential for our 
shareholders. This capability, to embrace and incorporate change, 
is key to our success.
Assets that are important for growth and value must:
• focus on airways disease;
• add balance to our development pipeline;
• increase the breadth of our product-enabling technology base; and
•  have the potential to generate revenue in the short term 
and increase economics through partnering, co-development 
or focused, cost-effective self-commercialisation.
Assets must also leverage existing capabilities, such as our expertise in 
drug-device combinations and our nascent expertise in commercialisation. 
Towards the end of this financial year, we announced a significant 
strategic acquisition of a private German company, Activaero GmbH, 
for €130m. This transaction aligned closely with our stated strategic 
intent and enhances our medium to long-term growth prospects. 
The acquisition brought us a proprietary smart nebuliser-based 
technology, FAVORITE, that facilitates targeting inhaled drugs into 
pre-selected areas of the lung. FAVORITE is incorporated into a range 
of products, with application to branded and generic drugs, for small 
molecules and for biologics. Our enhanced technology offering now 
spans both dry powder and liquid/aerosol forms of delivery to the lung. 
The acquisition also brought us a balanced pipeline of partnered and 
unpartnered drug assets through seven clinical and several pre-clinical 
stage programmes.
A significant attribute of the deal was that it augmented our pipeline 
through a single transaction, not only providing a balance of drug 
assets across development phases, but doing so with limited use 
of human and financial capital when compared to the cash outlay 
that would be required to acquire a similar asset base through a 
series of individual transactions. 
Organisational change
As a result of the enlarged organisation and the evolution from 
development to a product-focused organisation, we also made some 
changes to the way we manage the business – reconstituting the 
Executive Management Team (EMT: formerly known as the Leadership 
Team), responsible for the overall management of the Group’s strategy 
and its execution. The changes include Gerhard Scheuch joining the 
EMT as Chief Scientific Officer. The role of CSO will be key to ensuring 
the appropriate scientific input and liaison for our technologies. 
Gerhard Scheuch will be an ambassador for our science, technology 
and products, both within and outside the business. 
In preparation for laying out our strategy to derive future revenues 
from self-commercialisation of products, Roger Heerman has joined the 
EMT as Chief Commercial Officer. Roger Heerman brings significant 
experience of the commercialisation of respiratory products.
I look forward to working closely with Gerhard Scheuch and 
Roger Heerman on the EMT and am grateful that the Company 
has a strong, experienced and cohesive executive team to manage 
the next phase of growth for our Company.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
6
Business development activities during 2013/14
Vectura will seek to focus its business development activities on the 
acquisition and in-licensing of products and compounds which offer 
a good strategic fit and have the potential to deliver demonstrable 
value to all of the Company’s stakeholders. 
Evolution of the business and future growth
 Vectura has increased its focus on developing and commercialising 
innovative specialty medicines to meet significant unmet patient 
needs in airways diseases. The past year has continued that evolution. 
The Board believes that Vectura is well placed to exploit future growth 
and value opportunities and in the year ahead, we will utilise our 
recently expanded proprietary technology base to target disease 
segments where we can lead the way in developing treatments 
of benefit to patients.
Our people
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone in Vectura 
for their tremendous contribution this year, which has been another 
demanding yet exciting year. Their hard work and drive to succeed 
has formed the bedrock of our continued growth. I would also like to 
welcome our new colleagues and thank them for their support during 
the integration process which, I am pleased to report, is progressing 
well and forms the foundation for future progression.
Dr Chris Blackwell
Chief Executive
20 May 2014
Chief Executive’s statement continued
In the year ahead, we 
will increase our focus 
on the specialty area 
of airways diseases.”
‘‘
Making the most of our pipeline
Operational highlights include a 
number of commercial successes 
by the owners of our licensed products 
and intellectual property:
Novartis, with the approvals and launches 
of Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
 in Japan and Europe; 
 Sandoz, with the launch of AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
 
(an achievement that bodes well for our high value 
respiratory generic portfolio in Europe and the rest 
of the world); and 
 GSK, with the launch of products that generate 
milestones and royalties for Vectura.
All signify the start of new, growing revenue streams that 
build on the success of another of our assets, the Novartis 
product, Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
.
Other notable highlights included the establishment 
of Kinnovata, our joint venture in China, to maximise the 
potential value of assets that were no longer a focus for 
us in established, western markets, and the co-development 
partnership with UCB. The latter involves the development 
of a biologic molecule that will be delivered by inhalation 
to treat severe inflammatory diseases of the lung, an 
attribute that highlights Vectura’s innovative capabilities.
Read more on the news section of our website 
www.vectura.com
1
2
3 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
7
Our markets and opportunities
Population growth, increasing longevity and rising wealth, particularly 
in developing economies, continue to expand the global market for 
pharmaceuticals. In addition there are a number of specific factors 
affecting the market, in particular downward pressure on healthcare 
costs, regulatory challenges, legally controlled pricing, the cost of 
developing and protecting intellectual property and intensifying 
competition from generic products.
Growth drivers
Expanding patient populations
The world population is expected to rise from its current level of some  
7bn, to reach 9.6bn by 2050. In addition, the number of people who 
can access healthcare continues to increase, particularly among the 
elderly. Globally, it is estimated that between 2000 and 2050, the 
number of people aged 60 years and over will increase from 605m 
to over 2bn.
Unmet medical need
In most established markets, ageing populations and certain lifestyle 
choices such as smoking, poor diet and lack of exercise are increasing 
the incidence of non-communicable diseases, such as airway-related 
diseases, which require long-term management. 
Advances in science and technology innovation are critical if we are to 
address unmet medical need. Existing drugs will continue to be important 
in meeting the growing demand for healthcare, particularly with the 
increasing use of generic medication. The use of large molecules, or 
biologics, has also become an important source of innovation, with 
biologics among the most commercially successful new products. 
The respiratory market is dominated by a small number of companies. 
Inhalation products are complex dosage forms, which are challenging 
to develop within a strict global regulatory environment. Volume growth 
is expected to continue as demand in the developing world expands. 
Vectura is one of only a few independent product development 
companies able to meet the challenges of the market for inhaled 
therapies to treat airways diseases. The Group has proven technologies 
and expertise in the development of inhalation products incorporating 
dry powder inhalers (both branded and generic) and smart inhalation 
systems utilising nebulisation.
The asthma/COPD market is 
an attractive place to operate 
as the market need is growing.
Rising  
healthcare  
costs
Intensifying 
competition 
from generics
Regulatory 
challenges
Rising wealth  
in developing  
world
Increasing life 
expectancy
Population  
growth
Current market pressures and drivers
World population by 2050
9.6bn
Source: United Nations report: World Population Prospects, 2012 revision.
Global respiratory 
pharmaceuticals market Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
8
The body’s respiratory system comprises the upper and lower airways, 
the lung tissue and associated blood vessels. The respiratory system 
is responsible for delivering oxygen to all parts of the body via the 
bloodstream and removing carbon dioxide. We breathe several thousand 
litres of air every day, a dynamic environment that is often polluted. 
Every day, hundreds of millions of people suffer from chronic airways 
diseases, including two of the most debilitating and life-threatening; 
asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Asthma and COPD make up the third-fastest growing market 
for therapeutic treatments, with the total market estimated to 
be worth more than $30bn in 2012, according to analyst reports. 
This figure will continue to grow as fixed-dose combination products 
are increasingly used and more effective therapies become available. 
Vectura’s products for asthma and COPD target this ever-expanding 
global market.
For a pharmaceutical company, the asthma and COPD markets are 
important targets, as the market need is growing and patients, doctors 
and payors seek better, more cost-effective treatments. The incidence 
of COPD is increasing through the use of tobacco products and air 
pollution. Both asthma and COPD are global diseases, with a high 
prevalence in developed nations and those with high levels of pollution.
Our markets and opportunities continued
Our current addressable market falls into two main areas:
Asthma
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease 
of the airways leading to and from the lungs. 
Asthma itself is the result of genetic disposition 
and environmental factors.
People globally living with asthma
235m
Source: WHO, World Health Organisation.
COPD 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)  
is a chronic, slowly progressive disease, primarily 
associated with tobacco smoking, air pollution 
and occupational exposure.
People globally living with COPD
330m
Source: The Lancet, Vol 380, 15 December 2012.
1 2
Respiratory: Leading drug groups
Asthma and COPD Allergic rhinitis
2008
2012
Other
25%
73%
Total:
$41.2bn
Source: Decision Resources 2013.
Total:
$45.7bn
2%
3%
20%
77% Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview
Asthma
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways leading 
to and from the lungs. Asthma is the result of genetic disposition 
and environmental factors. It is a reversible condition, resulting from 
temporary narrowing of the airways, often as a result of external 
stimuli such as stress, pollen, exercise or respiratory tract infection. 
Asthma symptoms, which are episodic and sometimes seasonal, 
include cough, wheezing and chest tightness, particularly at night 
and in the early morning. It would appear that the strongest risk 
factors for developing asthma are inhaled substances that cause 
an allergic reaction or irritate the airways (such as pollution). 
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), around 235m 
people currently suffer from asthma worldwide. There is strong evidence 
that the prevalence of asthma increases as populations adopt an urban 
lifestyle and, with WHO forecasting that the world’s urban population 
will increase from around 45% currently to around 59%, it also forecasts 
that there could be an additional 100m asthma sufferers by 2025. It is 
the most common chronic disease in children. In short, this is already 
a disease state of considerable, and growing, significance. Asthma is a 
public health problem across high and low income countries and, with 
mortality rates higher in developing countries, is likely to see increased 
spending in emerging economies.
COPD
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic, slowly 
progressive, and only partly reversible airflow obstruction, primarily 
associated with tobacco smoking, air pollution and occupational exposure 
to lung irritants. COPD is characterised by chronic bronchitis (irreversible 
inflammation of the mucous membranes) and emphysema (destruction 
of the lung tissue). Symptoms include shortness of breath, cough, phlegm 
and activity limitation. Pharmacological treatments relieve symptoms 
and decrease exacerbations and hospitalisation, but are currently unable 
to reverse the underlying scarring of the lungs and loss of lung function.
There are approximately 330m people globally living with COPD 
and it is predicted to be the third leading cause of death by 2030. 
Currently the disease is largely hidden, with 50–75% of patients 
undiagnosed. 30m patients in the US suffer from COPD; only 6m 
receive treatment.
Our position
To optimise benefit to patients and maximise value from global 
opportunities, we are focusing on both the branded and generic 
respiratory product markets. These are very large markets, with dry 
powder inhalation (DPI) products currently generating sales in excess 
of $17bn a year in 2013 and growing. The Group’s specialism and 
expertise in inhaled product development puts us in a good position to 
meet the regulatory requirements for successfully bringing to market 
branded and generic inhalation drugs. There are relatively few 
competitors working on complex, inhaled generic products, and new 
market opportunities are emerging that provide potential for growth.
DPI products currently generating annual sales of
$17bn
Source: BCC Research: Report – Pulmonary Drug Delivery Systems: 
Technologies and Global Markets, May 2014.
9
Inhalation dose testing
