 Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 8
Chief Executive’s Review
Over the past twelve months, we have shown good
operational delivery on our existing assets and made
excellent progress on our expansion pipeline. The
year was again weighted towards the second half
with production, turnover and proﬁtability rising
through the year in all areas. Zinc and aluminium
both enjoyed signiﬁcant increases in proﬁtability in
comparison to the previous year. The acquisition of
KCM, in November 2004, also contributed to our
turnover and margin. Strong metals prices were a
consistent factor, which more than offset high
energy costs and the impact of tariff cuts.
Group turnover has increased 46% to $1,884
million, compared to last year, and EBITDA has
increased by 41% to $455 million, of which $295
million was in the second half of the year, including
$76 million from KCM. Operating proﬁt has
increased by 40% to $332 million. Strong metals
prices have more than offset rises in some input
costs, such as energy, and reductions in import tariffs
by the Government. EBITDA Margin has remained
consistent at around 24%. Underlying Proﬁt has
increased by 81% to $138 million from $76 million,
and EPS, based on Underlying Proﬁt, by 81% to 48.1
US cents per Ordinary Share. This reﬂects the beneﬁt
of the successful changes in the Group structure,
which has increased the proportion of earnings
retained within the Group.
The expansions at the Tuticorin copper plant and
Chanderiya zinc plant were completed shortly after the
year end and the aluminium expansion at BALCO is in
its ﬁnal phase before commissioning. There are many
opportunities to develop KCM and we have a clear
strategy on how to take these assets forward. These
expansions should result in steadily building production
over the coming year, with the ramp-ups of copper,
zinc and aluminium contributing towards a rise in
production in the second half of the current year.
Tariffs on metal imports into India were cut twice
during the year, at a special post-election budget in
July 2004 and at the annual budget in February
2005. Tariffs now stand at 10% on each of our major
metals, around the level recommended in the report
produced by the Kelkar Committee for the
Government.
Growth in India has continued at a good pace and
this has been reﬂected in demand for metals. The
new Government has continued with policies to
promote growth and development in India. Industrial
production in India has risen by around 8% during
2004 and ofﬁcial Government forecasts anticipate
similar levels for this ﬁnancial year. Metals demand
should also beneﬁt from a targeted rise of 14% in
infrastructure spend by the Government. India is well
placed to play a growing role in the global metals
and minerals markets, both from domestic demand
and the development of resources and facilities.
Our organisation continues to develop and grow. The
use of programmes such as TPM and Six Sigma,
along with the assistance of external consultants and
reviews, help to deliver operational improvements,
utilise our assets better, develop and retain our staff
and, importantly, to improve service to our
customers. 
Aluminium
The existing assets performed well over the year and
the results beneﬁted from the strong increase in the
metal price. The expansion project at Korba is on
track for commissioning in March 2006, taking our
aluminium capacity to around 400,000 tpa and the
new 1.0 million tpa alumina reﬁnery at Orissa is
making good progress.
The total production of ﬁnished aluminium in the
ﬁnancial year was 135,926 tonnes, an increase of
5% on last year, and in line with capacity. The
Group Turnover
$ million
FY
2004
1,289.5
FY
2005
1,884.2
Group EBITDA
$ million
FY
2004
322.7
FY
2005
FY
2004
FY
2005
455.0
Group EBITDA 
Margin %
EBITDA contribution
%
25.0
24.1
Group Summary
17 Aluminium
35 Copper
48 Zinc Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 9
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
introduction of a ﬁfth boiler at BALCO allowed more
stable power output with fewer interruptions in
power supply, and better control of management
processes at both companies also helped to increase
output. We sold around 35,000 tonnes of rolled
products from BALCO over the year.
Turnover in the Aluminium Business increased by
26% to $282 million, with EBITDA increasing 41% to
$76 million. The increase in turnover and proﬁtability
was principally due to the strength of the price for
aluminium, with aluminium prices, as quoted on the
LME, averaging $1,779 per tonne over the year, an
increase of 24% over the previous year. Tariffs on the
import of aluminium were reduced in February 2005
from 15% to 10% and thus the impact from tariff
changes in the ﬁnancial year was limited.
Unit costs rose to $1,378 per tonne, an increase of
12.5% from the previous ﬁnancial year. This was
primarily caused by the increase in all key input
prices, notably petroleum products, coal and caustic
soda. The expansion planned at BALCO will introduce
more modern 320 KA pre-baked technology, giving
the potential for a signiﬁcant reduction in unit costs,
mainly through lower power consumption and better
heat rate from the new power plant.
We estimate that demand for aluminium in India
increased by around 10% over the year, driven by
strong demand from the power, construction,
automotive and packaging industries. Power
transmission and electrical applications continue to
be the single largest domestic user of aluminium.
The domestic market will see signiﬁcant capacity
expansion over the next three years. Consumption in
the country is still less than 1 kilogram per capita and
we believe that consumption growth over the next
three years should average over 9 to 10% per annum
with demand being driven by the construction,
automotive and power industries.
Turnover
$ million
FY
2004
223
FY
2005
282
EBITDA
$ million
FY
2004
54
FY
2005
76
Production
Tonnes thousand
FY
2004
129
FY
2005
136
Unit cost
$ per tonne
EBITDA contribution
%
FY
2004
1,226
FY
2005
1,378
17
Aluminium Business
The two new pot rooms at Korba, each 1 kilometer long and containing 144 pots Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 10
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
The expansion project at Korba has made excellent
progress over the past year. We have invested a
further $431 million over the period, to bring our
total spend to $562 million, against a budget of $900
million. The captive power plant is at an advanced
stage and we anticipate being able to use the ﬁrst of
the four power units in July 2005. The pot rooms are
complete and technology testing on the pots has
been successfully undertaken. We will start bringing
pots into production on a progressive basis as the
power plants are introduced. 
We should, therefore, see some increase in output
towards the end of the year from these ﬁrst pots and
remain on track for our commissioning date of
March 2006. I look forward to reporting next year on
this expansion, which will transform the size,
dynamics and cost of production of this Business.
Alumina
At our major alumina project in Orissa, we have
made substantial progress on the alumina reﬁnery
with all of the civil works and construction well in
hand and around halfway to completion. To date,
approximately $101 million has been invested. There
have been some public interest submissions to a
Supreme Court of India sub-committee, regarding
the environmental clearances for the bauxite mining
and these are currently being addressed. As
mentioned in last year’s annual report, we have
investigated the possibility of introducing a partner in
this project and this option remains under
consideration.
Copper 
The assets in India made limited headway over the
year, given ﬂat TC/RCs and the impact of tariffs. The
new smelter received permission to operate in April
2005 and will take our capacity to 300,000 tpa. In
November 2004 we acquired KCM, making Vedanta
one of the top ﬁve global copper producers.
Copper – India/Australia
Production of copper cathode in India declined by
4% from the previous year to 171,992 tonnes.
Production was lower in the ﬁrst quarter as a result of
a planned shutdown of 20 days at the smelter, after a
long campaign life of 24 months. In the second half
of the year this was almost fully recovered, with the
plant running above capacity through both the third
and fourth quarters.
Turnover increased 29% to $766 million, though
EBITDA declined by 10% to $85 million. The rise in
turnover reﬂects the signiﬁcant increase in the
copper price over the period. The average price on
the LME over the ﬁnancial year was 136 US cents per
pound, an increase of 68% on the previous year.
Around 20% of our copper concentrate was
supplied by our own mines in Australia and these
operations beneﬁted from this rise. 
The average TC/RC we received in the year was 
8.6 US cents per pound, similar to the levels of
2003/04. TC/RC’s in the ﬁrst half were 6.6 US cents
per pound and were improving towards the end of
the year. We anticipate that our TC/RC’s should
increase signiﬁcantly in the current year. We have
made good progress towards our strategy of
obtaining around two-thirds of our concentrate 
on long term contract, having signed some frame
contracts over the year. 
Turnover
$ million
FY
2004
FY
2005
1,015
EBITDA
$ million
FY
2004
94
FY
2005
161
Production
Tonnes thousand
FY
2004
179
FY
2005
240
Unit cost
US cents 
per pound
Unit cost
US cents 
per pound
(including mining)
FY
2004
7.8
106
FY
2005
FY
2005
7.1
EBITDA 
contribution
%
35
Copper Business
593
I
I
I
I
I
Z
I
Z
Z
I
I
Z
I: India
Z:Zambia Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 11
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
The impact of tariffs was most signiﬁcant in the
Copper Business. Over the course of the year, 
tariffs on imports of ﬁnished copper were reduced
from 20% to 10%. Duty assistance on exports of
copper was also reduced during the year. On current
prices of copper cathodes this export assistance
broadly offsets the tariff of 5% paid on copper
concentrate imports.
Cash costs were improved from 7.8 US cents per
pound to 7.1 US cents per pound. This was driven by
better recovery of metal and improved by-product
management, notably sulphuric and phosphoric
acids. Our copper operations in India are already in
the ﬁrst quartile of cash costs for copper producers
globally, however we believe we can improve this
further and are targeting a cost of 6.0 US cents 
per pound.
During the year, further drilling was undertaken at
CMT and a further 13.0 million tonnes of ore has
been added to reserves, reﬂecting an extension to
the mine life of around ﬁve years. CMT produced
around 27,600 tonnes of copper in concentrate over
the year and the operation gained substantially from
the increase in the copper price. Production at TCM
was around 12,300 tpa. The operation at TCM is
likely to be closed in the ﬁrst quarter of the 2005/06
ﬁnancial year and closure costs, as estimated, have
been fully provided.
We estimate that growth in demand for copper in
India has grown at around 7% per annum, over the
past two years. This growth rate should beneﬁt from
growing power sector demand, construction, air
conditioning and the automotive sector. At the end
of 2002, India had power generation facilities of
105,000 MW; this is planned to double by 2012.
Shortly after the year end, we started commissioning
the new copper smelter at Tuticorin. This will take
our capacity to around 300,000 tpa of copper anode.
A new reﬁnery of 120,000 tpa and rod plant of
100,000 tpa has also been built at Tuticorin, so that
the additional anode will be processed at Tuticorin.
This will allow production of around 300,000 tpa of
cathode and 240,000 tpa of rod. The expansion also
included a new 22.5 MW power plant, and new acid
and oxygen plants. The smelter is producing metal
and we are moving through the ramp-up phase,
towards full production in the second half of 
the year.
Copper – Zambia
In November 2004 we acquired a 51% holding in
Konkola Copper Mines. KCM is the largest mining
company in Zambia, contributing signiﬁcantly to the
nation’s economy and export earnings. Over the ﬁve
months from the date of acquisition, KCM produced
67,547 tonnes of copper cathode and contributed
$76 million of EBITDA to the Group. The cash cost of
production was 106 US cents per pound.
A new chief executive, Mr CV Krishnan, has been
appointed to KCM. He has extensive experience in
the Copper Business, having worked previously with
the Group at Tuticorin. The immediate aim is for a
substantial improvement in operations and
processes. We are seeking to raise plant availability
and deliver better process management. Training for
staff is taking place along with the transfer of around
15 specialists from elsewhere in the Group.
There are several projects under way at KCM, all with
the aim of enhancing production and reducing costs.
A new 500 tonne per day acid plant is being built to
improve the availability of sulphuric acid and reduce
costs for the leaching plant. We are also moving to
de-bottleneck the smelter and improve recovery in
the smelters and concentrators.
The new copper plant at Tuticorin Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 12
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
The most signiﬁcant project at Konkola is the
Konkola Ore Body Extension Project. This involves
mining the ore below the current depth at Konkola
underground mine and expanding production from 
2 million tpa to 6 million tpa. Our intention is to
make full use of the existing infrastructure and
thereby deliver the project at a lower cost and shorter
timescale than had previously been thought possible.
The project should also have several economic and
environmental beneﬁts for the surrounding area. It is
intended that the additional production of
concentrates from Konkola will be treated in the
smelter at Nkana, producing copper cathodes 
for export. 
Zinc
The Zinc Business performed exceptionally well over
the period, assisted by strong sales and a ﬁrm zinc
price. Our expansion at Chanderiya was completed
and trial production commenced in May 2005 and
this will increase our reﬁned zinc output close to
400,000 tpa of ﬁnished metal.
Mine output has improved considerably and all the
mines have performed well. Rampura Agucha in
particular did better than the previous year due to
de-bottlenecking. This is reﬂected in an increase in
mined metal content of 7% over the year to 354,641
tonnes. Production of reﬁned zinc declined by 4% to
212,445 tonnes due to inconsistent qualities of met
coke, caused by short supply, which impacted the
production process. 
Sales of zinc metal at approximately 289,000 tonnes
are about 12% higher than the prior year, using our
own production of 212,445 tonnes along with
additional tonnage from tolling activities and stocks.
Turnover rose 21% to $486 million and EBITDA rose
22% to $219 million. Both turnover and proﬁtability
were driven by the increase in ﬁnished metal sales
and the strong rise in the zinc price. The average
price for zinc over the period, quoted on the LME,
rose 34% to $1,108 per tonne. This has more than
offset rising costs and tariff reductions. Cash costs of
production rose 22% to $695 per tonne. These were
impacted by rising energy prices and the costs of met
coke. Import tariffs on zinc were reduced in 5%
stages, from 20% to 10% in July 2004 and 
February 2005. 
Zinc demand in India grew at around 10% over the
year. The growth is driven by galvanising, which
protects steel from corrosion, and the end users of
galvanised materials in construction, the automotive
sector, housing and power transmission. About 50%
of zinc demand is driven by sheet galvanising.
There have been focused efforts on expanding new
zinc applications, notably galvanised reinforcement
bars and structures used in construction. These should
beneﬁt from Government infrastructure spend. 
Shortly after the year end, we commissioned the new
facilities at Chanderiya zinc smelter. The ﬁnal cost of
the expansion is around 15% below the budget of
$425 million set out at the time of Listing. First metal
was poured in May 2005, and we will build up
towards full capacity in the second half of the
ﬁnancial year, which will take our total zinc capacity
close to 400,000 tpa. The new facilities should assist
in reducing unit costs in the future towards our
target of $500 per tonne, subject to variations in
energy and coal prices. The operations are already in
the ﬁrst quartile of global costs and reaching our
target will make us one of the lowest cost zinc
producers in the world. 
Turnover
$ million
FY
2004
401
FY
2005
486
EBITDA
$ million
FY
2004
179
FY
2005
219
Production
Tonnes thousands
FY
2004
221
FY
2005
212
Unit cost
$ per tonne
FY
2004
571
FY
2005
695
EBITDA contribution
%
48
Zinc Business Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 13
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
The lead smelting facilities are currently being
increased by 50,000 tpa to take total output to
85,000 tpa. These new facilities should be
commissioned by the end of the ﬁnancial year. The
cost of this will be around $35 million.
Exploration
The replacement and growth of our resource base is
fundamental to our Businesses. During the year, we
appointed a Head of Exploration who will lead a
team responsible for exploration across the Group.
The team is tasked with developing our competence
in this area and producing a meaningful exploration
programme.
The importance of exploration has already been
demonstrated at our zinc operations. The reserves at
Rampura Agucha have been increased to 50.1
million tonnes from 40.1 million tonnes. These
contain zinc at 12.8% and lead at 1.9%. The life of
the mine has increased to well over 15 years, even at
the increased levels of production required by the
expansion at the smelter. We will continue with
further exploration work around the mines.
New Projects
The four projects set out at Listing are around 50%
complete in terms of budget, with two already
commissioned, zinc and copper, and the third,
aluminium, on track for the end of the 2005/06
ﬁnancial year. Costs are within budget, in spite of
input cost pressures such as steel, through a
combination of the timing of the initial contracts and
sound project management. 
We believe that there are some signiﬁcant further
opportunities to expand our production in the future
and this coincides with a unique period in India’s
economic growth and development. There is also the
potential to move our Zambian assets forward
considerably. This will extend our pipeline of growth
into the future and retain our proﬁle of growth led
through projects. We are undertaking a detailed
feasibility study for the development of aluminium
production in the State of Orissa. We are at a
preliminary stage in evaluating the potential for iron
development in the same State. We believe that
there is potential for further additions in other 
areas, particularly aluminium and zinc, and these
possibilities should develop over the year ahead.
Sustainable Development
We believe in sustainable development and are
committed to effective management of health,
safety, environment and community development as
an integral part of our business. 
The acquisition of KCM brings our total workforce to
around 22,500 and as the Group has grown, so have
our responsibilities to our employees and the
communities around us. We have made considerable
progress over the past year with many initiatives
undertaken. We have appointed Group managers for
both HSE and CSR who will further develop tasks and
performance indicators across the Group. 
Rampura Agucha lead and zinc mine, known for its consistent and high grade ore Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2005
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 14
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
We seek to meet needs in the community by
providing assistance in the three key areas of primary
health, education and distress relief. It is our wish to
assist those around us, far beyond their minimum
needs. Across the Group we undertake considerable
work ranging from funding schools and school
meals, to skill training programmes for adults and the
sponsorship of sports. There is a wide range of
activity in health care, from providing centres and
medicine to extensive treatment programmes. KCM
has a strong track record in malaria and HIV
programmes, the learning from which we can share
across the Group.
Over the year we have undertaken several initiatives
to ensure that we meet environmental requirements
and the use of third party audits by international
specialists has validated our belief in our practices.
The selection of the new technology being
introduced in our expansion programmes will assist
our efforts by improving on energy efﬁciency and
waste recycling. Investment has taken place to
improve air quality well within current permissible
standards, in anticipation of more stringent
legislation that will inevitably be introduced in the
future.
Outlook 
This year will see further delivery of the tasks we set
out at Listing as new production ramps up from our
copper and zinc expansions and our aluminium
project is fully commissioned. I also anticipate
improvements in production and costs at KCM. The
delivery of our strategy will reduce our unit costs
through the increase in volumes, new technology
and greater productivity and take us towards our
goal of being in the top decile of cost of production
in all of our Businesses. Our growth strategy
combined with growing demand for metals in India
gives a positive outlook and I look forward to
reporting on this over the year.
KK Kaura
Chief Executive
1 June 2005 A 51% holding in Konkola Copper Mines was acquired in 
November 2004. This is an integrated copper operation, 
comprising both open pit and underground mines and
a leaching plant and smelter. T otal capacity is around 
250,000 tpa. KCM offers many opportunities to increase 
production and reduce costs, to make the operations more 
proﬁtable through the cycle. The picture here shows the 
substantial Nchanga open pit mine.  A new aluminium smelter is being built at Korba, at a total cost 
of $900 million, with capacity of 250,000 tpa and including a new 
540 MW power plant. The smelter has two pot rooms, each 
1 kilometre in length and containing 144 pots. The pot rooms 
are complete and at the year end pots were being tested. 
The project is on track for commissioning in March 2006. 
