 4
Dear shareholder,
I am delighted to introduce Vectura’s Annual Report for the financial 
year 2013/2014. This is my first Annual Report as Chairman and I hope 
to convey my sense of excitement as the Company executes its strategy 
and my deep commitment to building on the firm foundation left by 
my predecessor, Jack Cashman. In addition to improved performance, 
there is no doubt that under Jack’s Chairmanship, the Board established 
a culture of good governance and high standard of business ethics. 
These have been adopted across the business. The management team 
I inherited is experienced, able and focused on operational excellence 
and the delivery of shareholder value.
The business model is balanced and through the recent acquisition 
of Activaero GmbH the Group is aiming to become the leading 
speciality pharmaceutical company in the treatment of airways 
disease. In considering how the Group can implement this stated 
strategy, I would like to highlight some of my thoughts as Chairman:
•  Vectura Group is positioned within a unique segment of the 
healthcare market, aiming to develop therapies that benefit 
patients, physicians and payers through a specialised focus on 
airways disease. The Group has the mix of products, development 
pipeline assets and technologies to grow and develop as an 
independent organisation;
•  the Group is fortunate to be led by seasoned, talented professionals 
and further supported by a skilled employee base;
•  the Group’s products are being recognised by our partners and end 
users for their quality, cutting edge technology and performance; and
•  the Board comprises a diverse mix of experienced individuals who 
collectively support management when appropriate and challenge 
when necessary.
During my first year as Chairman, it is my intention to capitalise on 
these fundamentals through liaising with senior management and 
engaging with our shareholders. I am clear that in a rapidly changing 
world, we will face some challenges but I take up the new role with 
a sense of privilege in my appointment, respect for the organisation, 
enthusiasm for the task and confidence in the future.
We are grateful to our shareholders for their continued support as we 
continue to do everything we can to build the success and grow the 
value of the Group. I look forward to another exciting year for Vectura.
Reporting
This Annual Report has been produced in compliance with new narrative 
reporting regulations, the principal change being the requirement to 
produce a Strategic report that provides readers with a clear and focused 
explanation of a company’s strategy, business model, key risks and 
performance. To date, Vectura Group has set high standards for the 
quality of its narrative reporting and I hope that you will find that this 
report fulfils the requirements and intentions of the new regulations, 
and continues to bring clarity and transparency to the Group’s activities.
Bruno Angelici
Chairman
20 May 2014
Vectura is transitioning 
into a leading specialty 
pharmaceutical company 
that focuses on developing 
innovative treatments for 
airways diseases.”
‘‘
Chairman’s statement
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
