 Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
8
Chief Executive’s Review
Anil Agarwal Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
9
It has only been six months between our Listing
and the production of our first Annual Report,
but a great deal has been achieved in that time
and the progress made has been encouraging.
Over that period we have seen good production
growth in several areas, which when combined with
cost control and strong metal prices, has resulted in
strong financial results. Turnover has increased by
34% to US$1,290 million. Group operating profit
has increased by over 100% to US$237 million for
the year, compared to US$115 million in 2003. At the
year end our earnings per share was 23.3 US cents
(compared to 24.5 US cents based on Underlying
Profit), based on 286 million Ordinary Shares in issue.
We have continued to make progress on improving
output, productivity and cost reductions in all of 
our operations, which was made difficult by the
headwind of shipping and energy costs. The Indian
rupee was less volatile than many other currencies,
with the average rate moving from INR48.5 to
INR45.9 to the US dollar.
We raised US$825 million net of expenses when
we listed, in support of a US$2 billion capital
programme, of which approximately US$300 million
has been invested so far. The balance is to be spread
over the next three years, principally at Korba and
Orissa. At the year end net cash was US$422 million.
The capital raised, combined with the cash flow
generated within the Group, will maintain our debt
within prudent levels while enabling us to carry out
all of our plans.
One aim of our strategy has been to simplify the
Group structure and enhance shareholder return by
increasing our ownership of the underlying assets
and reducing minorities. Since Listing we have made
two purchases of Sterlite shares and this has taken
our effective interest to 68.1% to date. We recently
reported a rights issue at Sterlite and we will take 
up any rights not taken by other shareholders. This
should increase our holding further and will put cash
into the subsidiaries for their development plans.
Minorities’ share of earnings is similar to last year 
at 58%. This is partly due to the success of the Zinc
Business where minority interests are high. This
number is likely to reduce moving forward, and was
already running at 54% in the second half of the
year, reflecting the actions that we have taken. 
In January 2004 the Government of India reduced
tariffs across all of our commodity products. The
tariffs were reduced by 5% on copper and zinc and a
special tariff of 4% was permanently removed across
all product groups including inputs of imported
materials, such as imported coal. This has left tariffs
of 15% on aluminium and 20% on lead, zinc and
copper. The net impact on our EBITDA and operating
profit was a reduction of around US$10 million over
a period of some three months. We believe that
tariffs in India will continue to decline, though we
cannot predict when any reduction will take place. 
Our aim is to reduce our costs of production, to
ensure that we remain competitive. Expansion 
will help reduce costs and continued liberalisation
will lead to a more open economy and stronger
economic growth. This is obviously beneficial for the
sale of our products and it is a change and challenge
that we welcome.
Exceptional demand from China and recovery in
several western economies has driven metal prices
up to high levels. The level of metal prices does, of
course, have a direct impact on our business. Our
volume, however, is based on levels of demand
within India and is less dependent on the global
scene. India has enjoyed a period of strong economic
growth and this is also reflected in our results.
Zinc and Lead
The zinc market was buoyant last year with average
prices on the London Metal Exchange of 40.8 US
cents per lb compared to 35.2 US cents per lb in
2003. We are a fully integrated producer and this
means we benefit fully from any strengthening in
the metal price. Global demand rose fast at around
3% in 2003, but this was modest compared to an
increase in India of some 9%. Nearly 75% of zinc 
in India is used in galvanising and substantial
investment in infrastructure is driving the demand. 
Our share of the Indian zinc market rose significantly
from 62% to 75% during the year. This was achieved
by increasing production and by tolling around
36,000 tpa of excess contained zinc in concentrate.
We currently have surplus mining capacity, but as 
our own new smelting capacity is commissioned at
Chanderiya this tolled zinc will be moved through 
our smelters at higher margin.
Implementing a US$2 billion
programme of investment in
the Businesses... Zinc Turnover
US$ million
291
2003
401
2004
Zinc Operating Profit
pre exceptional items
US$ million
60.4
2003
155.7
2004
Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
10
Well positioned for
future growth...
407
2003
593
2004
Copper Turnover
US$ million
Copper Operating Profit
pre exceptional items
US$ million
76.4
2003
65.6
2004
Aluminium Turnover
US$ million
221
2003
223
2004
Aluminium Operating 
Profit pre exceptional 
items US$ million
29.6
2003
35.4
2004
Group Turnover and Operating Profit 
pre exceptional items by Business Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
11
The output of zinc concentrate rose to 615,000 tpa
(2003: 486,000 tpa) and 74,000 tpa of lead (2003:
56,000 tpa). Production of finished zinc metal
increased from 207,000 tpa to 221,000 tpa. Several
initiatives were taken to reduce costs, through better
energy use, purchasing systems and productivity
rates. This reduced the unit cost of production
from 30.1 US cents per lb to 25.9 US cents per lb.
This was particularly pleasing given the increase
in metallurgical coal costs. We believe that further
work can be done, particularly in reducing power
costs and making further operational improvements. 
We continue to make good progress with the
implementation of our growth plans in the Zinc
Business. Over the course of this financial year 
we are building a new power plant and smelter 
at Chanderiya which will take production there 
from 100,000 tpa to 270,000 tpa. This should be
commissioned by June 2005. Over the same period
we are increasing the output at the Rampura Agucha
mine by 1.3 million tpa to 3.3 million tpa, which 
will feed the smelter and is due to commence in
December 2004. A captive power plant of 154MW is
being installed which should play a significant role in
reducing costs. These expansion plans will lift our zinc
capacity from a total of 210,000 tpa to 380,000 tpa.
The Indian lead market has a demand supply gap 
of around 100,000 tonnes. We have consequently
decided to more than double our refined lead
production capacity at Chanderiya from 34,000
tonnes to 85,000 tonnes. The facility is expected 
to be commissioned by July 2005.
Copper
Vedanta is primarily a refiner of copper and the copper
market was challenging for us over the year. Global
demand grew at around 2.6%, nearly twice the level
of supply. This was largely due to increased demand
from China for refined metal and some unplanned
shutdowns at substantial mines, all leading to a 
very tight global market. Stocks of copper reduced
significantly over the year and copper prices reached 
a nine year high of 136 US cents per lb. 
Due to the tight copper market, combined 
treatment and refined charges (“TC/RC”) during
2004 averaged around 8 US cents per lb against 
the average of 13 US cents per lb during 2003. 
We source a part of our concentrate requirements
through our own mines and we continue to increase
our contracts in the TC/RC market and thereby
reduce our exposure to the spot market.
It seems likely that the market will continue to be
tight, though supply is slowly starting to recover and
some global smelting capacity has been withdrawn
as a consequence of the low refining charges.
As our production numbers show, in spite of the
tight market, we were able to source copper and
even increased production, with a focus on higher
value areas. Cathode production increased over the
year by 15% to 178,700 tonnes (2003: 155,700
tonnes), production of copper wire rods rose by 
29% to just under 123,000 tonnes. With sufficient
capacity for copper wire rods already in place, 
the additional conversion of cathodes into rods
incurs minimal additional capital, but has produced
some US$20 million of EBITDA, around twice the
previous level.
We continued to make strong progress on cost
reduction, with the unit cost declining from 9.1 US
cents per lb to 7.8 US cents per lb. This was mainly
achieved through reduced consumption of power
and petroleum products and improvement in
recovery rates at the smelter.
Over the year Tuticorin smelter has been undergoing
significant expansion from 180,000 tpa of capacity 
to 300,000 tpa. The smelter and associated plant is
mechanically complete and under commissioning. We
anticipate that when the full benefits of the expansion
come on stream, we should be able to reduce our unit
cost by a further 2.0 US cents to 5.8 US cents per lb.
Chief Executive’s Review continued Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
12
Aluminium
The use of aluminium in India remains modest
compared to the rest of the world, but with
significant growth potential. Increased global
demand again put pressure on prices, with average
aluminium prices rising by 10%. Alumina prices (the
raw material for aluminium) remained high being
driven by the demand from China as they increase
aluminium capacity. 
The production of aluminium at Vedanta is divided
between two separate Group subsidiaries, MALCO
and BALCO. Both companies have output close to
operating capacity with combined production of
129,000 tpa (2003: 127,000 tpa). BALCO represents
around 75% of aluminium output. Production has
seen a modest increase, but there was a focus on
improving product mix with higher value added
products, such as rods and rolled products. We
anticipate that the impact of value added products
will increase next year. A new cold rolling facility of
36,000 tpa was commissioned during the year and
will reach full production in 2005.
The unit cost of production at BALCO decreased
from 56.8 US cents per lb to 56.2 US cents per lb,
helped by an improvement in captive power
production, which reduced our need to purchase
more expensive power from the grid. Our costs were
held back by the increase in caustic soda prices and
the US dollar/Indian rupee exchange rate. There was
a significant voluntary retirement scheme, which saw
employee numbers decline by 775 to 4,000. An
exceptional charge of US$13.3 million was incurred
relating to this programme. In carrying out these
programmes we take full account of the welfare of
the individuals, many of whom have worked with
the Group for many years.
Costs at MALCO rose over the year, from 48.9 US
cents per lb to 53.8 US cents per lb, mainly as a
result of rising fuel costs and an additional tax
imposed by the State government on power
generation. MALCO purchased imported coal,
where prices rose faster than the domestic coal used
for power generation at BALCO. 
The Aluminium Business is undergoing significant
change. The major developments at Korba and
Orissa will transform this Business over the next
three years enabling us to both increase production
and significantly reduce our unit cost of production.
A 250,000 tpa smelter is being built at Korba, which
will take our total capacity from 135,000 tpa to
385,000 tpa. A captive power plant, generating
some 540MW, is being built as part of this scheme.
The cost of this project is around US$900 million 
and should be commissioned by March 2006,
though the power plant should be completed some
months before that. Orders for critical and long lead
items have already been placed and work is currently
on schedule. 
During the year, work started on the alumina refinery
with bauxite mining and captive power generation
facility at Lanjigarh in the mineral rich State of Orissa,
India. The project should be completed by March
2007, developing the fourth leg of our business. It
will not only cater for alumina demand at the new
Korba smelter but will also help Vedanta access
export markets. The project is progressing on
schedule with critical orders for refinery and power
plant already having been placed and preliminary 
site civil engineering works having been started.
Corporate Social Responsibility
As a major industrial company and employer 
we have an important role to play in our local
communities. Although there has been much
growth and improvement in India over the years,
there remain substantial parts of the population
whose health and economic welfare is fragile. We
are committed to working in this area and hope that
we can share the benefits of our success and growth
with our local communities.
At all of our sites we make it clear that safety is of 
the upmost importance. We have achieved further
certification for both environmental and health and
safety, which is covered in more detail in the Corporate
Social Responsibility report on pages 22 to 26.
Chief Executive’s Review continued Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
13
Strong operational
performance... Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
14
Looking Forward
India remains a country of exceptional opportunities,
with a population of over 1 billion, significant natural
resources and yet one of the lowest levels of metal
consumption in the world. Metal prices may soften
from current high levels, though stocks are low and
the supply-demand balances in several areas suggest
that pricing could remain firm. 
Regardless of the influence of pricing, the outlook for
metal demand in India is strong and we are well placed
to take advantage of this. We should be able to make
further good progress at our zinc operations this year,
increasing volume in line with Indian demand. Tuticorin
is ready to produce from the new furnace and, subject
to receiving the permits, the benefits of this increased
capacity and lower costs should be apparent over the
course of the year. We are operating close to capacity
at our aluminium operations and although we will
always try to push the limits further, the major change
will be felt when the expansion project at Korba comes
on stream in 2006.
There are several opportunities to simplify the
corporate structure and we should be able to report
some positive progress over the year.
In the first quarter we have carried out planned
shutdowns for maintenance at Tuticorin (copper)
and Chanderiya (zinc and lead). Tuticorin had been
through an exceptional period of 24 months
continuous operation, which is a tribute to the
operational management. These shutdowns will lead
to a more modest first quarter, but without affecting
our overall expectations for the year.
The growth pipeline at Vedanta is exceptional, with
expansion projects of US$2 billion over the next four
years trebling our capital base. In the coming year
we expect to make significant progress on all of our
projects, with major commissioning coming in 2005
and 2006.
At all of our operations we strive to be low cost
producers. This is the best protection from low metal
prices that we can give our business and this will
help to ensure that we obtain the best return for
shareholders should circumstances change in 
metal markets.
We will continue to move forwards with our growth
plans and continuing to improve the efficiency of our
operations. We approach the coming year with
confidence and with many opportunities to develop.
Anil Agarwal
Chief Executive
18 June 2004
Chief Executive’s Review continued Vedanta Resources plc
Annual Report 2004
15
Uniquely placed...
