 14 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
Strategic Report
Incoming Chief Executive 
Officer’ s statement
T om Albanese became our new Chief Executive Officer 
on 1 April 201 4. Here he gives his initial impressions of 
the Company and outlines his first priorities.
Taking the helm of a world class 
business is an honour, and I am 
especially excited to be leading a 
diversified resources company like 
Vedanta with a large presence in 
India, a country where I see the 
potential for significant demand 
growth and the opportunity to 
develop and harness natural 
resources to meet this surge 
in demand.
India has long held a fascination for me. It is 
endowed with a vast and largely untapped 
potential in natural resources, and it is also 
a country of fast-growing aspirations. It is 
home to over a billion people driving demand 
for consumer durables, transportation, 
telecommunications and new infrastructure.
Just prior to taking up the role, I spent six 
months as Chairman of Vedanta Resources 
Holdings Limited, that operates as a 
subsidiary of Vedanta Resources plc and 
the holding company for the operating 
companies, which gave me an opportunity to 
know the Company well, visit the operations 
and chair several monthly Executive 
Committee meetings going through detailed 
reviews of business performance. I visited 
almost every asset and spent a lot of time 
underground which left me as energised 
as my first mining job more than 30 years 
ago. I wanted the opportunity to look and 
learn, engage with the workforce and gain 
a well-informed first-hand impression.
Our people
What I have found is a very effective 
management team and a professional and 
committed workforce, and I express my 
thanks to the outgoing CEO of the Group, 
Mr MS Mehta and the outgoing CEOs of the 
Iron Ore division, Mr PK Mukherjee, and Oil 
& Gas division, Mr P Elango, whose efforts to 
build these teams have been commendable.
There are some gaps which we need 
to fill, such as boosting underground 
mining expertise, but the organisation 
is staffed by highly capable teams. It is 
clear to me we have commercial acumen 
in depth, as well as a proven process 
engineering capability and a tremendous 
culture of leadership development.
We will be building on our teams in the 
coming year, benefiting from strong internal 
talent and complementing it with fresh 
perspectives from external hires. On that 
note I am delighted that we have hired a new 
CEO at our KCM business and a new head of 
Corporate Communications and Corporate 
Social Responsibility who is taking up this 
role with a strong emphasis on CSR; an area 
where I think we can present ourselves better.
 p29 
Read more about our people
Our assets
My tour of the assets confirmed to me 
that we have much to be proud about. 
The Company’s ethos of keeping a firm 
control on costs is clearly translated into 
action on the ground, with our largest 
businesses ranking in the lowest cost 
quartile of the global cost curve.
I have also been struck by the world class 
quality of resources and resource potential. 
In particular, four assets come to mind. Our 
prolific onshore Rajasthan oil and gas block; 
the Zinc India assets, also in Rajasthan, with 
the largest zinc-lead mine in the world; our 
low-cost iron ore mines in Goa; and, with 
some operational improvements, the long 
life potential of the high-grade copper assets 
at Konkola Copper Mines (‘KCM’) in Zambia.
These are just four examples in a very 
exciting landscape. As a resources 
explorer, I know that this sector and 
our organisation can play a vital role 
in India’s growth and prosperity.  Strategic Report Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information
15 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
It will be part of my remit to engage 
with policymakers to help in harnessing 
India’s resource potential and thereby 
create growth and employment.
Immediate operating priorities
In the near term, I see a number of 
key operating priorities and these will 
receive immediate focus. They are:
• To ramp up aluminium production and 
obtain access to bauxite.
• To resume iron ore mining operations 
at Goa.
• To improve the business at KCM.
I will also focus on driving further the already 
successful businesses, and this will include 
maximising exploration and optimising 
production at the Rajasthan oil & gas block 
and a proper transition of the Rampura 
Agucha mine at Zinc India from open-cast 
to underground in the next few years.
Safety: zero harm
Having spent my professional life 
involved with the mining industry 
across different countries, I know first-
hand the absolute necessity to strive 
for a zero harm environment.
So although there have been some 
improvements in the Company’s lost 
time injury frequency rate metrics, I 
have communicated to the Board, the 
management team and the entire 
workforce that the fatality rates at our 
operations are wholly unacceptable.
I am therefore conducting a personal 
and thorough appraisal of our safety 
management processes, contractor 
management and compliance, and internal 
safety leadership with the clear target of 
moving towards a zero harm record.
This is not only the right thing to do by 
the workforce, but in my experience, 
the safest businesses are also the 
most capably led and efficient, with all 
the benefits that flow to employees, 
communities and shareholders alike.
Protecting our licence to operate
The most successful businesses in our sector 
have not merely gained a licence to operate; 
every day, they work to protect and maintain 
that licence. In turn, they have assets that 
don’t just last a decade but have productive 
lives that can span generations of workers.
At the heart of this longevity is Corporate 
Social Responsibility in its fullest sense: 
a commitment to engage with local 
communities; to safeguard the wellbeing 
of the workforce; and to minimise 
wherever possible the impact made on the 
environment. Indeed, legislation is raising 
the bar on these issues, not just in India but 
around the world. While Vedanta meets 
or exceeds regulatory requirements, I am 
focused on raising standards further.
One of the first locations I visited was 
Lanjigarh, where we have ambitions to 
ramp-up the refinery to a capacity of 5mt of 
alumina. However, the bauxite for this is to be 
supplied by the State Government as per our 
existing Memorandum of Understanding. On 
behalf of Vedanta, I reiterate that we will not 
consider developing any bauxite resources 
including the Niyamgiri mines, without 
the consent of the local communities.
Regarding our employees, we are conducting 
a gap analysis to ensure our compliance 
with the UN Principles of Human Rights. 
I am also introducing two non-negotiables: 
the radical improvement in safety I 
mentioned above, and a reinforcement of 
the strong principles already in place here 
surrounding compliance, integrity and 
ethics. Our performance in both these areas 
will be led by a strong tone from the top.
So as I set to work in my first year as CEO, 
I’m very excited about the potential ahead. 
We have the people and the assets and 
I look forward to setting a stage that will 
enable even greater performances ahead.
We are all here for the purpose of adding 
value, for our shareholders, our employees, 
and all stakeholders. Over the past 10 years 
the Company has created tremendous value 
for all three, and I am committed to continue 
to do this in the future, and take Vedanta to 
the next level of performance in all aspects.
Tom Albanese
Chief Executive Officer
15 May 2014
“So as I set to work in my  
first year as CEO, I’m very 
excited about the potential 
ahead. We have the people 
and the assets and I look 
forward to setting a stage 
that will enable even greater 
performances ahead.”
1
Engineers at Sindesar Khurd zinc-lead mine, HZL.
2
Engineers at Skorpion integrated zinc complex, 
Zinc International.
2
1
