 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 04
our strategy is to grow the group significantly by 
exploiting its position as a specialist professional 
services provider with a strong reputation for 
delivering independent advice and pragmatic 
solutions to its clients.
INTro Du CTIoN AND h IGh LIGh TS
This year marks a year of major change for VEGA with the Group 
now well established as a specialist professional services provider 
with a strong management team and a clear service offering. 
Whilst the business has been transformed over the last 12 months, 
the strong trading performance has continued with increases 
again in both revenues and adjusted operating profit*. Group 
revenues for the year ended 30 April 2007 increased by 3% to 
£64.1m. Adjusted operating profit* increased by 7% to £5.1m. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share* also increased by 7% to 
17.8p. Reported operating profit was £4.1m (2006: £4.2m). 
Reported diluted earnings per share were 14.5p (2006: 14.8p).
During the year we completed the reorganisation of the Group  
into three separate business streams for Consulting, Technology 
and Managed Solutions. It is the Board’s view that this will  
position the Group better for future growth by making clear to  
all our stakeholders the full scope of the Group’s service offerings, 
ensuring focused leadership and development of the businesses 
and giving more visibility of the underlying performance of 
the Group.
Significant effort has also been spent in continuing the transition 
of the Group into a sales focused organisation and this was borne 
out in both the strength and quality of new business in the Group’s 
pipeline as we entered the new financial year.
pE op LE
VEGA depends on the commitment of its people and I would 
again like to thank all our staff for their part in delivering another 
good set of results. 
We now have a very strong management team supporting the 
executive directors and this should enable the business to flourish 
whilst at the same time allow the executive directors to channel 
more of their efforts into the continuing development of the Group.
DIVIDENDS
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.25p per share 
which, together with the interim dividend of 0.75p per share, will 
bring the total dividends for the year to 3.0p per share, a 20% 
increase on the previous year. This increase reflects the Board’s 
confidence in the Group’s future prospects and the high level  
of its dividend cover.
STr ATEGy Our strategy is to grow the Group significantly by exploiting its 
position as a specialist professional services provider with a 
strong reputation for delivering independent advice and pragmatic 
solutions to its clients. The markets in which we operate are 
currently undergoing significant change and this will open up 
further opportunities for us to deliver high value services, 
supporting our clients in the successful delivery of their 
programmes and systems. The Board will continue to consider 
acquisition opportunities to broaden the Group’s service offerings, 
extend its geographic reach and take the Group into new markets 
where there is proven demand for its services.
Ch AIr MAN’S STATEMENT VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 05
ACquISITI oN
We were pleased to announce on 9 July 2007 that we had 
acquired Anite Deutschland Management GmbH and its 
subsidiaries (together ‘Anite Deutschland’) for a total consideration 
of £8.0m in cash from Anite Group plc. Anite Deutschland is  
a key part of our strategy for international growth and will add 
significantly to our existing presence in Germany. The company 
will give us a major German defence client which is vital in helping 
our penetration into that market and will also open a new market 
sector for us in Financial Services which we believe will provide  
us with opportunities to cross-sell other VEGA services. Anite 
Deutschland has a strong and dynamic senior management  
team who are committed to further build the business under  
the VEGA banner. 
o u TLook We are already seeing the benefits of the new management team 
and structure that has been put in place and are confident that the 
prospects for the Group remain very encouraging.
ANDy r ob ErTS
CHair Man
* before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
