 6	 	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 Annual Report & Accounts 2006	 	 7
Summary
I am pleased to report another year of continued 
improvement for VEGA, with many client success stories 
in the year. I would also like to take this opportunity to 
highlight the contribution made by all our staff – both  
those on the client facing delivery side and those who 
provide the support backbone on which the business 
depends. They should all take considerable pride in their 
significant achievements.
Strategy	 delivered
There have been several key initiatives launched during the 
year as a result of the Strategic Review. 
One of the main thrusts was to achieve a more balanced 
business model where we would achieve greater parity 
between our services, markets and geographies. We 
determined that these would be managed locally but 
would be directed from the centre. I can report that 
we have now set up a structure which reflects these 
changes and we are now beginning to see the benefits 
of this flow through to the business.
To capitalise on their different operating characteristics, 
we set out to make a stronger distinction between the 
Consulting and Technology elements of our business. 
The initial focus has been on Consulting, where we have 
launched a distinct Business Consulting Group which 
will operate across the Company and be responsible for 
the development of the processes and tools to support 
higher level consulting engagements. In order to lead 
this initiative, we have recently appointed a Consulting 
Director. We will turn to building our Technology 
services during the first half of 2006/7, which will drive 
the development of VEGA intellectual property-based 
solutions. Once this is complete, there will be a clear 
distinction between what constitutes our Consulting  
and Technology offerings going forward. 
•
•
In the business development area, we have made 
two key senior management appointments to reflect 
our revised market definitions around Aerospace and 
Government & Defence, and to exploit the undoubted 
potential that partnerships represent for VEGA. In 
tandem, we have adopted a new account management 
approach to ensure that we are closer to our clients and 
are in a position to better cross-sell our other services. 
We have also made significant investments in our sales 
processes, in value based selling and in the back office 
which will underpin these changes. 
The marketing and re-positioning around ‘Independent 
Programme and System Assurance’ has begun to 
produce results. It is now gaining wider understanding 
and acceptance in the market and, as a result, VEGA 
is being identified as a leader within this arena. Several 
contract wins in the year are as a direct result of this 
approach being applied to the successful solution.  
As I wrote last year, the development of clear, 
understandable and marketable service offerings 
is crucial to our future success. The redefinition 
and investment in our key service lines has given 
considerable impetus to our marketing and sales efforts 
and is a vital component in the development of our 
balanced business model. 
Vision
Halfway through the year, I shared my personal vision for 
VEGA’s immediate future with my senior management 
colleagues. It is an expression of how I see the Company 
developing and positioning itself as a leading professional 
services business in consulting and technology. This vision 
was ratified by the Board and is now an important overlay 
to the Strategic Review, undertaken last year.
•
•
•
“	One	 of	 the	 main	 thrusts	 of	 the	 strategy	 was	 to	 achieve	 a	 more	 balanced	 business	 model	 where	 we	 would	 achieve	 greater	 parity	 between	 our	 services,	 markets	 and	 geographies.”
Phil	 Cartmell  Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Review 6	 	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 Annual Report & Accounts 2006	 	 7
There are four key themes to this vision. First, it plots 
the journey VEGA needs to take from an engineering 
capability-led business, through to a market-led business. 
Second, we have to build on our operational strengths by 
balancing them with the new focus on our services. Third, 
there is strong evidence in our markets, which has been 
substantiated by our own client research, that innovation 
will become increasingly important for VEGA, both in terms 
of our solutions and our commercial approaches. Fourth, 
I strongly believe VEGA must create an ongoing change 
environment to achieve our strategic goals.
Fundamental to this change agenda, will be the preservation 
of a careful balance between today’s core business and the 
exciting opportunities I see for VEGA over the next few years. 
We also need to develop a professional staff with the right 
blend of entrepreneurial, commercial and practical skills  
and experience.
I believe that the actions taken in the business as a result 
of our strategic review have delivered benefits this year 
and positioned us well to take advantage of new market 
opportunities. The new focus on our differing Consulting 
and Technology offerings, through the associated service 
lines, will provide the clarity needed to demonstrate the 
added value we can deliver to our clients. This gives me 
continued belief that we will achieve our goal of leadership 
in our chosen fields.
Phil	 Cartmell
Chief Executive
Human	 Performance	 Improvement
Service	 Line
“ Applying individual, team and collective 
learning solutions, to enhance 
organisational performance.”
Overview
An organisation’s performance is directly affected by the 
performance of both its systems and its people. When 
organisations undergo change, such as the introduction of 
new systems or processes, they risk gaps arising between 
the current human capabilities and those needed to derive 
business value from the change. Even where no change is 
being sought, gaps in staff knowledge, skills or attitude may 
restrict an organisation’s effectiveness and productivity. 
 
 
 
Case study
“	VEGA	 manages	 development	 of	 innovative	 UAV	 	 training	 system”
Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition and 
Reconnaissance (ISTAR) systems that employ Unmanned 
Aircraft Vehicles (UAVs) are an increasingly important 
component of modern defence activities, with their ability to 
provide continuous surveillance, without the need to deploy 
troops into sensitive areas or harmful situations. More than 
this, they are an essential element of UK armed forces’ drive for 
Network Enabled Capability (NEC), enhancing military capability 
through the better exploitation of information.
When the UK MoD initiated an £800m programme to procure 
its own ISTAR system (Watchkeeper), Thales UK asked 
VEGA to join its consortium as the partner responsible for the 
training solution. Working closely with Thales UK and the other 
consortium members, VEGA helped to prepare an innovative 
bid, which contributed to Thales UK being appointed as prime 
contractor in August 2005. 
Since then, VEGA has conducted the Watchkeeper Training 
Needs, Analysis and Risk Reduction Study. These assessed 
the detailed training requirements for UAV operators and 
maintainers and considered competing technical requirements 
to generate an optimum balance within the requirement set.
In July 2006, VEGA was awarded a £19.7m contract by 
Thales UK, to manage the development and delivery of the 
Watchkeeper training solution.
