 VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 06
pEr For MANCE
I am pleased to report on another year of good performance and 
real progress against the new strategy. We have continued to 
deliver year-on-year growth in both Group revenue and adjusted 
operating profit*, whilst making significant changes to the Group 
organisation and its management structure in order to improve 
future Group performance.
STr ATEGy During the year, we have continued to deliver against and build 
upon our stated strategy, namely to achieve a balanced business 
model with greater parity between services, geographies and 
markets. I am pleased to report that the changes made during the 
year under review to implement this strategy have produced 
encouraging results. 
ser ViCes
Last year we set out to make a stronger distinction between  
the Consulting and the Technology elements of our businesses,  
in order to capitalise on their different operating characteristics 
and channel investment towards staff development and 
competitive differentiation of our service offerings. This year we 
have progressed this further, by separating out the Managed 
Solutions element of our business. 
We now go forward with what I believe is a much simpler and 
more compelling set of propositions for how VEGA can help our 
clients as businesses. These can be summarised as:
A Consulting business that advises  
clients on the practical implementation  
of their business strategies.
 A Technology business that  
develops innovative systems  
and tools to support the  
successful execution of client  
programmes and projects.
 A Managed Solutions business  
that provides teams of experienced  
specialist practitioners to manage and  
implement client programmes and projects.
Each of these three business streams now has its own P&L, 
management team and business plan. As a result, we have 
already seen Technology and Managed Solutions capabilities, 
originally developed around Aerospace clients, transfer 
successfully into the UK Government and Defence markets, with 
further opportunities in the pipeline. 
geograp Hies
We have continued in our efforts to organise more cohesively 
within our key geographies of the UK, Germany and France. 
Individual managers have been appointed for each country and 
they have been tasked with building the VEGA presence and 
future growth prospects in their respective territories. 
This has yielded continued growth in the UK and a widening of our 
customer base in both Germany and France. We have also set up 
a Spanish subsidiary, primarily as a contracting vehicle for existing 
framework agreements.
Going forward I intend for the geographies to receive increasing 
emphasis, as we move to a more devolved business model. This 
will result in a smaller corporate team, providing strategy and 
direction from the centre, with larger geographic teams executing 
and delivering locally. 
Mar Kets
The senior business development appointments that we  
made last year, coupled with ongoing investment in account 
management, sales process, back office customer relationship 
management and better use of strategic advisers, has continued 
to enhance our client engagement and sales prospects in our 
core markets of Aerospace, Defence and Government. 
Our Business Development Directors are now engaged at the 
highest levels of their respective industries, participating in both 
networking and lobbying activities and delivering more insight and 
influence at the development stage of programmes. These include 
meetings at the levels of UK Government ministers, Defence Chiefs 
of Staff, CEOs of Aerospace primes and EU Vice Presidents.
Investment in market research and analysis continues as we 
pursue our journey from capability led, through sales led, 
ultimately towards a market led business strategy.
VEGA has always excelled in technologically and operationally 
complex environments, which has made Aerospace, Defence  
and Government natural and fertile markets for the Group. As the 
pressure in these markets to modernise, enhance value and 
secure their operations has grown, they have increasingly come  
to recognise the value of specialist expertise and independent 
advice such as VEGA’s, in parallel with generic methodologies 
and off-the-shelf solutions offered by others.
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE’S r EVIEw 
t his has been a year of great achievement and 
change for Vega , both internally and externally. 
We have continued to deliver year-on-year  
growth and profit, and have undergone major 
reorganisation towards a more balanced  
business model. VEGA Group p LC  Annu Al  Repo Rt  & A ccounts  2007 07
This encourages me to believe that there is significant room for 
growth in each of our traditional markets, and also in the relevance 
of VEGA’s capabilities to other markets, where the need for 
transformation, value for money and security is driving investment.
positioning
Last year I introduced my intention to evolve VEGA’s positioning 
towards that of a specialist professional services company; 
namely a company that, by virtue of its 30 years’ experience of 
specialist market and technological domains, is able to offer 
independent expert advice and support services to help 
businesses with the practical implementation of their strategies. 
This builds on our current positioning as a provider of independent 
programme and system assurance – helping clients to ensure 
their programmes and systems deliver the value for which they 
were intended – but also recognises the important contribution 
VEGA is making to client business transformation, beyond the 
purely technological.
By putting the emphasis on how VEGA helps its clients as 
businesses, we will extend the scope of our client engagements 
and increase the applicability of what we do to a wider range of 
clients and markets.
In doing so, we intend to exploit what I see as an expanding 
market opportunity between the high-end strategic consultancies, 
the major integrator-manufacturer companies and the niche 
software and equipment vendors. 
In the course of the year I have seen increasing evidence of the 
attractiveness of this position, and we will therefore accelerate 
moves in this direction through our branding and positioning.
staff
VEGA currently employs 630 staff, with a comparatively lean 
overhead and high proportion of professional fee-earning  
staff. We have continued to build teams around the high level 
appointments of previous years, through leadership development 
from within, strategic external recruitment and careful use of 
associates and advisers. 
Our business development success in winning new clients and 
projects from some of the major competitors in our markets is  
now being mirrored in recruitment, where we are receiving an 
increasing number of unsolicited employment enquiries from 
leading individuals. We believe that clients and employees  
remain attracted to VEGA’s core cultural attributes of technical 
excellence, pragmatism, dedication and delivery.
I recognise the outstanding contribution made by VEGA staff, who 
have continued to deliver the excellent services for which we are 
renowned. We have also created the structural and cultural freedom 
for VEGA, as an invigorated team, to exploit our 30 year heritage 
and to embrace the exciting new opportunities ahead of us.
inno Vation
One of VEGA’s strengths has always been in creative problem 
solving for its clients. This has continued to underpin our business 
growth and in recent years has led to landmark contracts such  
as CSIS and Watchkeeper. More recently we have started to 
increase our investment in intellectual property and research  
and development. 
In the course of the year, we have supported some innovative  
new developments where we now enjoy a position of thought 
leadership and market shaping. These include: the application of 
gaming technology to infection control and medical emergencies; 
the application of advanced architectural framework modelling to 
assist strategic decision making and the application of mobile 
technology to support rapid reaction teams in the field. 
Corporate deVelop Ment
Corporate development activity around potential mergers and 
acquisitions continues to be, and will remain, an important part  
of our growth strategy. We will look to make in-fill acquisitions  
to enhance our existing business and will also consider 
transformational opportunities.
Su MMAry This has been a year of great achievement and change for VEGA, 
both internally and externally. We have continued to deliver  
year-on-year growth and profit and have undergone major 
reorganisation towards a more balanced business model.
The significant effort made in transforming the Group over the past 
12 months, turning VEGA into a sales focused professional services 
organisation, has been reflected in the strength and quality of  
new business in the pipeline. I believe that we are now very well 
positioned to embark upon our next stage of organic growth and 
also to move forward with our strategy for acquisitions.
p h IL CArTMELL
CHief exeCUti Ve
* before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
