 Overview
VEGA has had another very successful year, delivering 
significant growth in both revenues and operating profits 
whilst continuing to invest in its future.
In line with the strategy outlined last year, the focus over 
the last 12 months has been on growing the Group in all its 
key geographies and this has been achieved, with VEGA 
now enjoying double digit growth across the UK, Germany, 
Holland and France. To support this and future growth, 
there has also been significant investment during the year 
in strengthening the sales team and processes across 
the Group and training senior management. However, 
operating margins have been maintained and Group 
operating profits have grown by more than 20% for the 
fourth consecutive year.
Two senior executives have been recruited during the year 
to lead the Group’s business development activities across 
its key markets. We have now also drawn a clear distinction 
between the Consulting and Technology elements of our 
business and the Board has recruited a Consulting Director to 
strengthen the management team in this rapidly growing part 
of the business. We are looking to make a similar appointment 
to lead the Technology side of the business.
Turnover for the year was up 18% compared with the 
previous year. Adjusted profit before tax* was up 21%. 
Reported profit before tax was up 22%.
In the UK, there has been strong growth within the Defence 
consulting arena, particularly in the areas of national 
security and network enabled capability. VEGA has had 
further success in winning major contracts in its role as 
prime contractor, including a £4m contract to build a 
secure information system for the UK intelligence 
community and a £4.6m contract to supply architectural 
modelling services to the UK Ministry of Defence. In 
Aerospace, growth has been achieved in the UK space 
business, with contract wins on Galileo and for EADS 
Astrium on the Skynet 5 programme, whilst on the military 
side, after a relatively quiet year to 30 April 2006, we 
have now signed a £19.7m contract with Thales UK to 
provide the training solution for the Watchkeeper UAV 
programme. In Government, in common with many others, 
we saw a fall in revenues from the health sector but this 
was compensated for by growth in services into central 
government and the emergency services.
In Germany, VEGA underlined its excellent relationship with 
the European Space Agency by winning, for the seventh 
consecutive time, a contract to supply operational support 
to the European Space Operations Centre (ESOC) in 
Darmstadt for up to a further five years. This contract is 
estimated to be worth €6.5m to VEGA in the calendar year 
to 31 December 2006 and we anticipate that the annual 
value should remain at a similar level during the lifetime of 
the contract. The Group has also won a contract worth 
potentially €2m over four years to provide ground segment 
support to ESOC.
In the Rest of Europe, the Group has extended its support 
to the European Space Research and Technology Centre  
in Holland and, significantly, has won its first contract  
for work at the French national space agency (CNES)  
in Toulouse, France.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.875p per 
share which, together with the interim dividend of 0.625p 
per share, brings the total dividends for the year to 2.5p  
per share, up 25% on the prior year. 
“	The	 Board	 is	 very	 pleased	 with	 the	 progress	 made	 in	 the	 last	 2	 months.	 In	 the	 year	 ahead,	 we	 will	 continue	 to	 implement	 our	 strategy	 for	 growth	 across	 our	 geographies	 and	 markets.”
Andy	 Roberts  Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
4	 	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
* Before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items. Board	 changes
On 28 June 2006 Brian Birkenhead joined the Board as 
Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, replacing Ken Lever who retired at the last 
Annual General Meeting.
Outlook
The Board is very pleased with the progress made in  
the last 12 months. In the year ahead, we will continue  
to implement our strategy for growth across our 
geographies and markets, building a strong management 
team to deliver improved performance from our existing 
businesses and looking for smart acquisitions to 
supplement organic growth. 
VEGA is well positioned to take further advantage of the 
potential in its current markets. Management is  keenly 
aware of changing government and institutional priorities 
and, by aligning VEGA along our service lines, we believe 
that we will be better placed to respond and indeed look  
to other market opportunities. We believe this will position 
us as a recognised market leader in our chosen fields.
Andy	 Roberts
Chairman
“ Defining, procuring and implementing 
new capability, for higher business 
value and lower integration risk.”
Overview
In today’s network-centric environment, organisations 
frequently seek to develop strategic capability through 
the acquisition of new technology. The procurement and 
deployment of new technology has, however, often been driven 
by available budget and functionality and not by ensuring 
business value or interoperability with existing systems. The 
opportunity to improve return on investment is leading many 
organisations to seek better ways of acquiring capability. 
 
 
Case study
“	VEGA	 enhances	 MoD	 decision-making	 across	 multiple	 procurement	 programmes.”
Like many organisations, the MoD needs to understand 
the impacts of its various procurement programmes on its 
people, processes and systems. More than this, it needs to be 
confident that the investments it makes will deliver the capability 
it sets out to achieve.
When confronted with an ever increasing number of systems 
and interactions, the MoD Integration Authority asked VEGA 
to help it to devise a means of capturing and visualising this 
expanding complexity in a meaningful way. Working with 
the Integration Authority, VEGA developed an advanced 
‘Architectural Framework Modelling’ (AFM) capability and 
software toolset. The resultant solution is currently supporting 
around 3,000 separate systems, in 300 related procurement 
programmes, with a total of over 300,000 nodes of interaction. 
Using AFM, the Integration Authority has been more able to 
identify, assess and manage risks, and to conduct requirements 
definition with more comprehensive trade-off and benefit 
analyses, before events occur. Overall, the MoD has improved 
its ability to make sound business decisions and to present a 
more confident road map for capability delivery.  
In March 2006, VEGA was awarded a £4.6m contract to 
provide ongoing Architectural Framework Modelling services  
to the Integration Authority and to enhance the software toolset.
Capability	 Acquisition
Service	 Line
	 VEGA	 Group	 PLC	 Annual Report & Accounts 2006	 	 5
