 Chief Executive’s Review
Mike Wagstaff
Introduction
During 2007, Venture continued the development of its North Sea 
business, participating in the drilling of 11 new wells, bringing two  
new fields on stream (Chiswick and Mimas), and completing some  
of the largest and most complex projects in the Company’s history.  
In addition, we have either completed or reached important milestones 
in the development of a number of key assets which, in aggregate,  
have substantially de-risked our business. 
Average net daily production for 2007 was 41,228 barrels of oil  
equivalent per day (boepd), a decrease of 7.7% over 2006. During 2007 ,  
the benefit of Venture’s strong underlying reservoir and well 
performance was impacted by certain exceptional operational events 
and project delays which included higher than anticipated downtime  
on GKA, delay in the start-up of production from the Chiswick field, delay 
in start-up of production from Chestnut and the continued delay in the 
anticipated gas ‘blow down’ within the Birch reservoir. In contrast to 
these disappointing timing impacts, elsewhere in the portfolio the  
‘A’ Fields and Goosander both outperformed expectations. Particularly 
encouraging individual field production performances came from both 
Annabel and Saturn which both continued to exceed expectations. 
Our southern North Sea (SNS) gas fields contributed 60% of total 2007 
Group production, slightly higher than expectations, with the balance 
from Venture’s central North Sea (CNS) oil fields. 
During 2007, Venture has continued to build its business through 
continued execution of our proven strategy, summarised as follows:
• The acquisition, development and production of proved but  
under-exploited oil and gas fields, known as ‘stranded’ reserves.
• Geographic focus as a North Sea development and production 
company.
• Continual development of our portfolio of interests in over 40  
North Sea oil and gas fields, less than half of which are currently  
in production.
Venture Production plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 • Leveraging of Venture’s substantial operational and development 
expertise we believe gives us a real and sustainable competitive 
advantage as an efficient and focused low cost operator.
• Continued enhancement of our very valuable long term strategic 
relationships with our core contractors which help to ensure the 
availability of key equipment and services in a tight market. 
At 31 December 2007, net proven and probable reserves were estimated 
to total 203 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMboe). This represents 
a modest 8.4% fall from the end of 2006, which is the first time in the 
Company’s history that annual production has not been replaced several 
times over. This pause in the growth of Venture’s reserves base is 
principally the result of the 2007 re-categorisation of probable reserves 
from the Pilot field to contingent resources, and also reflects the absence 
of any significant completed acquisitions during the year. 
During the year, Venture has positioned itself strategically and financially 
for the next phase of its growth. As planned, we successfully completed 
a major refinancing of the Company ahead of the current difficult capital 
markets conditions, including raising £151 million in new capital from 
two new strategic investors, which will better enable Venture to move 
quickly to take advantage of material acquisition opportunities in the 
North Sea.
Operational Overview
‘a’ Fields 
The Noble Julie Robertson (NJR) jack-up drilling rig continued to operate 
for Venture in the SNS under a long term contract. In light of Venture’s 
active SNS drilling campaign, this contract has recently been extended 
for a further 12 months through to late 2009.
During 2007, two appraisal wells were drilled on the Ensign gas field.  
The first, completed in January 2007, was drilled and completed and 
tested at rates of 12–15 million standard cubic feet per day (MMscfpd). 
The second well drilled towards the end of the year was subsequently 
hydraulically fractured, utilising the boat and equipment developed for 
the Chiswick field development. This second well tested at flow rates  
of 42 MMscfpd, towards the top end of our pre-drill expectations.  
The results of this well will enable Venture to commit to the development 
of the Ensign field during 2008, with a target of first gas during late 2009.
During the first half of 2007, Venture sidetracked the Amanda discovery 
well originally drilled in 2003. This appraisal well was completed and 
tested at rates below expectations and is not economic on a stand-alone 
basis. The well was suspended awaiting the results of the Agatha 
exploration well, which is expected to be drilled in 2009. As a result, 
Venture decided to take a non-cash write-off of historic development 
cost of £11.2 million against the cost of the well drilled in 2003. 
In the third quarter of 2007, the Channon exploration well successfully 
drilled and tested. Stabilised gas flow at rates of up to 55 MMscfpd gross 
was achieved and the well has been suspended for future completion 
as a producer. Estimated net recoverable reserves from the Channon 
reservoir are 30 to 40 billion cubic feet (Bcf), which is at the top end of 
pre-drill expectations. Discovery of gas at Channon creates the potential 
for a joint development with the Barbarossa gas discovery located in 
block 47/9c, a subsea tie-back to nearby infrastructure. Venture will  
earn its 90% interest in Barbarossa once the appraisal/development  
well which was spudded in late February 2008 is drilled. Expected 
reserves from this well are around 30 Bcf net to Venture.
Greater Markham a rea (GMa )
During 2007, production from the GMA hub was in line with 
expectations and delivery rates benefited from the impact of the 
Markham Compression Tower, which was installed during late 2006.
On GMA, the highlight of 2007 was the start-up of production from  
the Chiswick field at the end of September. While first gas production 
was some six months later than originally planned due to the unexpected 
and unavoidable lack of an available well stimulation vessel in the North Sea, 
Venture’s ability to recover through the development of an innovative 
solution utilising a pumping spread on the back of a large supply boat is 
“ 2007 was an exciting year of operational and strategic 
progress for Venture and we successfully completed 
the largest and most complex engineering and field 
development projects ever undertaken by the Company.”
Overview of Our Business Accounts & Notes Governance Our Performance in 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Venture Production plc 11 Chief Executive’s  
Review – continued 
testament to our operational capability. Initial production was somewhat 
lower than anticipated due to a slower than expected clean-up of the 
first production well, although this is not expected to impact longer 
term production performance. In addition, Venture has now successfully 
drilled, fractured and tested the second Chiswick production well which, 
as recently announced, tested at higher than forecast rates. The well was 
successfully brought on stream in February 2008 and Chiswick will be a 
major contributor to Group production in 2008 and beyond. 
Greater Kittiwake a rea (GKa )
During 2007, production from the GKA hub was adversely affected  
by poor uptime availability of the tanker loading and export system.  
This loss of productive capacity continued into the fourth quarter, 
but was partially offset by continued strong reservoir performance, 
particularly from Goosander. Development activity on GKA in 2007 was 
focused on the construction and installation of the new export pipeline 
between the Kittiwake platform and the Forties Pipeline System. The new 
pipeline was successfully installed and brought on stream in November, 
and is already contributing to substantially improved operational uptime, 
and is expected to lower overall operating costs and allow GKA field life 
to be extended. 
In addition, during the fourth quarter, Venture successfully drilled an 
appraisal well on the Grouse oil field. This was successful and will lead to 
a fast track development of the field as a subsea tie-back to the Kittiwake 
platform. The Grouse production well is expected to come on stream in 
the first half of 2009. Looking further forward, the recently announced 
acquisition of an additional interest in, and operatorship of, the Bligh gas/ 
condensate field will, together with the nearby Christian field, form the 
core for the next phase of the development of the GKA hub beyond 2010.
‘Trees’
‘Trees’ production was stable during 2007. The Birch oil field has produced 
steadily but the anticipated gas ‘blow-down’ of the reservoir has not 
yet occurred. It is expected that this natural change in production 
characteristics will happen at some point and, when it does, more 
associated gas will start to be produced, thus raising the overall field 
production rate. Whilst reducing reported production volumes, the 
financial impact of this was limited as the gas produced from ‘Trees’  
is sold offshore at a large discount to benchmark market prices. 
During 2007, Venture commenced a major seismic reprocessing and 
interpretation study on the entire ‘Trees’ production hub, which will be 
completed during 2008. Whilst the analysis of the remaining potential 
in the southern part of the Sycamore development has not yet been 
completed, preliminary results of this study suggest that in the central 
part of the Sycamore field, there is limited re-investment opportunity. 
This has led to the Company taking a non-cash impairment charge  
in 2007 of £24.5 million, against the value of our historic investment  
in Sycamore.
Other CNS
Field development activity on our other oil assets in the CNS during 
2007 was focused on the Chestnut field. Installation of the production 
and support facilities on the new Sevan 300 floating production unit, 
the Hummingbird, was completed in December in Rotterdam. The 
Hummingbird was installed in the Chestnut field at the end of the year 
and offshore hook-up and commissioning work and subsea tie-in activity 
is ongoing, although progress on these activities has been slower than 
anticipated for a variety of reasons, including winter weather related 
issues. First oil is currently anticipated during the third quarter.
Ongoing subsurface studies using new data on the Chestnut reservoir 
have identified the potential to drill an additional production well in the 
field. This is expected to significantly increase recoverable reserves from 
the field, and it is anticipated that this project will be sanctioned during 
the first half of the year, leading to the well being drilled towards the end 
of 2008.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, drilling continued on the Selkirk 
appraisal well. The well was sidetracked into the crest of the reservoir 
structure, but has been suspended due to operational difficulties.  
The well has, however, proved up commercial reserves and the operator  
has commenced development planning.
An appraisal well on Pilot field in block 21/27a was drilled during the 
third quarter. Oil samples recovered from the Pilot well are somewhat 
heavier and more viscous than those from previously drilled Pilot wells, 
and this new data is being evaluated to better determine the extent of 
the commercially recoverable oil. Based on the well result, the probable 
reserves associated with Pilot have been moved to the contingent resources 
category, and an impairment charge of £9.0 million against the carrying 
value of the asset has been taken. 
To the south of Pilot, the appraisal well drilled adjacent to the Narwhal 
discovery failed to encounter hydrocarbons and the well was plugged 
and abandoned. The appraisal well drilled on Millburn discovery 
encountered 12 feet of oil-bearing sandstone which is considered  
sub-economic, and the appraisal well was also plugged and abandoned.
Trinidad
Venture retains a 40% shareholding in Ten Degrees North Energy Limited 
(TDNEL), an oil and gas production company based and registered in 
Trinidad. TDNEL produced an average of 1,522 boepd (609 boepd net) 
during 2007.
Corporate and Business Development
Over the last three years, Venture has focused on becoming an efficient 
acquisition, development and production operator and today, following  
a series of almost 50 acquisitions, it ranks as the sixth largest independent 
operator in the UK sector of the North Sea by gross operated production. 
In a mature basin such as the North Sea, Venture believes that its operating 
capability, size, scale and strategic and geographic focus give it a strong 
competitive position, and a positioning that Venture believes would be 
difficult to replicate.
Venture Production plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 In terms of completed transactions, 2007 represented a quiet year for 
both Venture and the North Sea oil and gas industry. In recent months, 
driven by the fundamentals in the global energy market, Venture has 
seen a significant increase in levels of asset trading activity in the North 
Sea, although this has yet to be translated into completed transactions. 
This activity is consistent with historical patterns seen in other mature 
producing regions such as the US Gulf of Mexico where, as the basin 
matures, ownership of substantial proportions of the basin’s oil and  
gas reserves has migrated from larger international oil companies,  
to more regionally focused independents. Venture believes that it is  
well positioned competitively to capitalise on this consolidation trend, 
which it believes will create significant opportunities for the Company  
to expand its business. 
To position itself financially for this anticipated phase of consolidation 
in the short to medium term, in July, Venture announced that it had 
entered into agreements with 3i Group plc and its affiliates (3i) and 
ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC and its co-investors (ArcLight), to make 
a significant strategic investment in Venture. In aggregate, when their 
subscription for a new convertible bond and shares purchased in the 
open market are taken together, 3i and ArcLight have made a total new 
investment of over £200 million in Venture. 
3i’s and ArcLight’s investments consist of a number of elements as follows:
• £151 million in newly issued 3.25% convertible bonds (CBs) due  
2010 which are convertible into 16.5 million newly issued Venture 
ordinary shares.
• Conversion of ArcLight’s existing North Sea Gas Partners (NSGP) 
interest into 6.0 million new Venture ordinary shares.
• 3i’s existing investment in Venture of 2.6 million shares.
• Both 3i and ArcLight made additional market purchases of Venture 
shares to take their total stakes to approximately 10% on a fully  
diluted basis.
In addition, during the second half of 2007, Venture completed a £600 
million refinancing of its debt facilities. This consists of two elements,  
a £365 million new corporate credit facility and a total of approximately 
£235 million in privately placed institutional loan notes, with final 
maturities of 10 and 15 years. Combined with the strategic investment 
from 3i and ArcLight, Venture now has strengthened financing sources 
from which to deliver its growth strategy.
In order to improve Venture’s ability to pursue opportunities through the 
UKCS Licensing Rounds, in early 2008 Venture formed two partnerships 
with two small UK exploration focused independents to pursue 
opportunities in the SNS and CNS, as part of the 25th UK Licensing 
Round which was recently announced.
Current Trading and Outlook
Operationally, we have had a good start to 2008 with the majority of 
operational issues, which impacted 2007 production performance now 
behind us. Our 2008 drilling programme has had an excellent start with 
results ahead of expectations seen on both the Ensign and Chiswick 
wells. 2008 is also proving to be a much more active year than 2007 
from a business development perspective, with five acquisitions already 
announced to date. 
In looking forward to the rest of the year, we note that Venture’s 2008/9 
development programme consists of a number of projects which are 
individually subject to the everyday risks this industry faces; some of 
which are beyond our direct control, and most of which impact timing  
of production, rather than the intrinsic value of our assets. We believe 
this year’s development programme is somewhat lower risk than 2007,  
in that there are fewer new production additions coming on stream 
earlier in the year, which contribute to the growth in production in  
2008. The two most significant are the second Chiswick gas well,  
which, as recently announced, has now been successfully brought on 
stream, and start-up of production from the Chestnut oil field. 
Venture’s production guidance for 2008, set around the end of 2007, 
assumed a start-up of production from Chestnut during the second 
quarter, and we now expect first oil production during the third quarter. 
The impact of each one month delay in the start-up of production from 
the field represents a reduction in annual average production for 2008 
of approximately 1,000 boepd. Notwithstanding this, we still continue 
to expect 2008 production to be within our guidance range of 50,000 
boepd +/- 10%.
The success of Venture’s business depends on the sustained delivery of 
our acquire, develop and produce strategy, leading to continued growth 
in reserves, production and cash flow over a sustained period. Between 
now and the end of 2009, Venture anticipates bringing on stream a total 
of eight significant new projects, which are expected to boost net 
production significantly from today’s levels. 
In summary, as a result of the strong operating performance of our 
business, combined with favourable commodity prices and increased 
activity in the acquisitions market, the Board remains very confident of 
the outlook for Venture’s business in 2008 and beyond. 
Mike Wagstaff
Chief Executive
Overview of Our Business Accounts & Notes Governance Our Performance in 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Venture Production plc 13
