 Chairman’s Statement
John Morgan
2007 saw strong underlying performance in building the business,  
but a shortfall against our annual production objective. We indicated at 
the start of the year that there were project timing risks late in the year 
and in the event there were some significant delays. These, together with 
some operational issues beyond management’s direct control, meant that 
we failed to deliver our production growth objectives. All of this shortfall 
was delayed, rather than lost and major progress was made in delivering 
and de-risking important projects including the Kittiwake pipeline, the 
Ensign appraisal well, and the Chiswick Gamma well. Strong oil prices 
and strengthening gas prices meant that our cash generation capacity 
remained strong despite weak gas prices early in the year. I would like to 
express my thanks to all of Venture’s staff and contractors who worked 
very hard to deliver real progress and to overcome a number of very 
difficult challenges.
Safety and Environmental Management are top priorities for Venture 
and the year was another one of strong performance and commitment. 
The Board is pleased with the development of the Technical Integrity 
Management System and the Carbon Management Strategy. Enhanced 
environmental regulation means that this area will remain a major focus 
for management and the Board.
The Company has maintained a consistent strategy with its focus on 
‘stranded’ assets in the North Sea. The development of operational, 
technical and commercial capacity has allowed us to build a strong 
competitive position which, together with our sound balance sheet 
will allow us to continue to grow the business over the next few years. 
During 2007 we reviewed our strategic objectives and concluded that 
our financial and competitive strength and organisational capability 
allow us to set new and very ambitious objectives for the next four years, 
which would result in a doubling of the scale and value of the business. 
The Board believes that such challenging objectives must be properly 
incentivised and rewarded and an important new Long Term Share 
Incentive Plan will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting,  
designed to align senior management in the delivery of this  
new challenge.
The Board and its Committees have continued to exercise a positive 
approach to the governance of the Company. Reports from the 
Committees are included in this document and I would like to thank  
all my Board colleagues for their very constructive contributions.  
There have been a number of changes in Board composition during  
the year. These are described within the Directors’ Report on pages  
34 to 36.
Following these changes the Board comprised four Executive Directors, 
four independent Non-Executives, three non-independent Non-Executives 
and myself, the Non-Executive Chairman. This is now quite a large Board, 
but does not conform to corporate governance guidance that at least 
half the Board (excluding the Chairman) should be independent 
Non-Executives.
The Board has carefully considered how to balance the objective of not 
becoming unwieldy through size with assurance that the interests of all 
shareholders are being safeguarded. While the Board was satisfied that the 
existing independent Directors would achieve this, it decided that it was 
appropriate to add a further independent Director to provide additional 
tangible assurance that, although the Board is not in compliance with 
guidelines, the independent Director presence is powerful enough 
to demonstrably provide a full level of safeguard. A search process was 
initiated and I am delighted to welcome Andrew Carr-Locke to the Board 
from 3 March 2008. Andrew brings strong management experience and 
until recently was Group Finance Director of a major listed company.
Venture Production plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 I believe that we have an experienced Board with the right mix of skills 
to steer Venture through its next very challenging phase of growing the 
value of the business. 
During 2007 the Board indicated its intended priorities for the use of free 
cash flow generated: firstly, acquisitions or other internally generated 
business development opportunities which meet Venture’s strict 
investment criteria; secondly, maintaining debt at a sustainable long term 
level; and, thirdly, returning capital to shareholders through dividends, 
share buy-backs or other mechanisms. In 2007 a dividend of 50.0 pence 
per share was approved, comprising an ordinary dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share and a special dividend of 40.0 pence per share. This year the 
Board has proposed an ordinary dividend of 12.0 pence per share subject 
to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2008.
John Morgan
Chairman
“  The significant investment of £200 million  
from 3i Group plc and ArcLight Capital Partners,  
LLC has created another exciting new stage in the 
development of Venture and underpins our growth 
plans for the future.”
Overview of Our Business Accounts & Notes Governance Our Performance in 2007
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Venture Production plc 9
