 Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations
04
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Vernalis is recognised as one of Europe’s leading biotechnology companies, 
with a robust financial position, a marketed migraine treatment and a healthy
pipeline of viable product candidates. The management team is dedicated 
to achieving the goal of becoming a sustainable, self-funding, R&D-driven
biotechnology company. 05
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Objective
Secure the financial position of the Company. 
Achievement
Three licensing transactions resulted in the receipt of
significant funds during 2004. Financial position further
strengthened by the Placing and Open Offer which raised
£30.3 million early in 2005. Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations continued
06
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Overview
Frovatriptan
Our most important asset is our 
product for the treatment of migraine,
frovatriptan. The licensing agreement
with Endo Pharmaceuticals, one of 
the leading speciality pharmaceutical
companies in the US in the area of 
pain management, was recognised
within the industry as being truly
innovative, evidenced by winning 
the BioBusiness Network Innovative
Partnership 2004 from Worldwide
Business Research and Pharmalicensing.
Under the terms of the agreement,
Vernalis could receive more than 
$400 million in upfront and milestone
payments, of which $60 million is
unconditional. Vernalis also received 
a $50 million, five-year loan facility,
which allowed us to pay our outstanding
obligations to Elan Corporation plc
related to the re-acquisition of
frovatriptan earlier in the year. While 
the financial aspects of the collaboration
are very important, the major benefit 
is having a strong partner who is as
committed as we are to the product.
Endo has expanded its sales force and
has recently re-launched frovatriptan as
an acute treatment for migraine with a
revised marketing focus on the benefits
of the product’s long duration of action.
We believe frovatriptan’s long half-life 
of 26 hours, over four times longer 
than any other triptan, results in the
lowest headache recurrence rate in the
triptan class and also makes it an ideal
candidate for prophylactic use, an area
where there are currently no approved
treatments. Frovatriptan is currently in
development for this distinct use in the
menstrually-related migraine indication
and is expected to complete Phase III
trials later this year. 
In last year’s report we highlighted how Vernalis had embarked on a new
strategy to assemble the assets in order to become one of Europe’s leading
biotechnology companies.
We are pleased to report that 2004 was a year when we concluded the initial
consolidation of the Company that was started in 2003 and, through this
restructuring, we have seen our cost base reduced substantially. We have 
also strengthened the financial position of the organisation by securing three
substantial commercial collaborations, and, in early 2005, by successfully
completing a secondary financing raising over £30 million. Over the year we 
have seen our share price strengthen significantly, which is an outstanding
achievement, especially given the tough investment climate experienced by 
the entire industry last year. We believe we now have the strong foundation 
on which to build towards our goal of becoming a sustainable, self-funding, 
R&D-driven biotechnology company. 07
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Building towards a fully integrated
biopharmaceutical company
From its strengthened position, in 2005
Vernalis plans to progress towards its
ambition of building a fully-integrated
biopharmaceutical company and will
continue to drive the Company’s
existing product portfolio. A very
exciting part of the agreement with
Endo is the option for Vernalis to
establish its own speciality neurology
sales force to co-promote frovatriptan 
in the US alongside Endo. In February
2005, Vernalis exercised this option,
and Endo will provide funding for a
Vernalis sales team of up to 25
speciality neurology sales representatives
for up to five years, beginning 1 January
2006. This sales team has the
opportunity to market other prospective 
central nervous system products, 
in addition to frovatriptan, and will
establish Vernalis’ commercial
operations in North America for the
future sale of pharmaceuticals.
We see the establishment of a US 
sales and marketing infrastructure as
an important step forward in Vernalis’
growth. Not only does the US market
contribute more than 50 per cent of all
world pharmaceutical sales in a single
market, but it also provides opportunities
to strengthen our clinical pipeline in 
the areas of central nervous system
disorders and oncology and grow
through further merger and acquisition
activity. A US commercial presence will
also increase our visibility with the
North American investment community. 
Summary
Vernalis is recognised as one of
Europe’s leading biotechnology
companies, with a marketed product, 
a healthy pipeline of viable product
candidate assets, and a management
team dedicated to achieving our stated
goals, including strategic deal making
with experienced and credible partners. 
Frovatriptan
Frovatriptan
V10153
V2006
V140
MEI
5-HT 2C agonists
A 2A antagonists
Hsp90 inhibitors
CB 1
Acute treatment of migraine
Menstrual migraine
Thrombotic disorders
Parkinson’s disease
Cancer pain
Inflammation
Obesity 
Depression
Cancer
Obesity
Endo (US)
Menarini (Europe)
–
Biogen Idec
Serono
–
Late
research
Pre-
clinical
Phase I Phase II Phase III Market Partner Product Indication
Portfolio review:
Key products and programmes:
Roche
–
Novartis
–
Endo (US)
Menarini (Europe) Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations 
08
Vernalis plc
Following the re-licensing of frovatriptan to Endo Pharmaceuticals, the 
migraine drug has been re-launched with a new marketing focus on its long
duration of action resulting from its distinctive long half-life. Frovatriptan is
clearly differentiated from other triptans by this extended half-life which makes 
it an ideal candidate for prophylactic use in menstrually-related migraine.
Relaunched
&
Distinctive
   Objective

Achievement



09
Vernalis plc Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations continued
10
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Marketed product 
Frovatriptan is a selective 5-HT
1B/1D
receptor agonist approved as an acute
oral treatment for migraine headache
and its associated symptoms. It is one
of a class of prescription drugs called
triptans, a number of which are already
approved for this indication. 
Frovatriptan was launched in the United
States in June 2002 and, until May
2004 was marketed as Frova™ by a
combined sales force from Elan and its
co-promotion partner UCB. In May 2004,
Vernalis re-acquired the North American
rights to frovatriptan from Elan for a total
of $50 million payable in instalments
over the period to 31 December 2005
(subsequently renegotiated to $44 million
which was settled during the year). 
In August 2004, Vernalis re-licensed
frovatriptan to Endo Pharmaceuticals.
Under the terms of the licence
agreement, Endo will make unconditional
payments totalling $60 million to
Vernalis, including $30 million which
was paid at closing and two further
payments of $15 million on the first
and second anniversary of closing.
Endo will also make various milestone
payments to Vernalis upon the
achievement of certain sales thresholds
starting with a milestone of $10 million
upon reaching $200 million net annual
sales. Starting on 1 January 2007 , Endo
will make royalty payments to Vernalis
which will be tiered from 20 per cent or
higher if FDA approval of the menstrually-
related migraine indication is obtained.
In 2004, net sales of frovatriptan in the
US amounted to $33.3 million and in
February 2005 Endo re-launched the
product with an expanded sales force
and a revised marketing focus on the
benefits of a long duration of action. 
Also in February 2005, Vernalis
exercised its option to co-promote
frovatriptan alongside Endo, and 
Endo will substantially fund the Vernalis
sales team of up to 25 speciality
neurology sales representatives for 
up to five years, beginning 1 January
2006. This sales team has the
opportunity to market other prospective
central nervous system products 
in addition to frovatriptan, and will
establish Vernalis’ commercial
operations in North America for 
the future sale of pharmaceuticals.
In Europe, frovatriptan is marketed 
by Menarini in Italy, Germany, Austria,
Ireland, Spain, Greece, Holland, and 
the UK. In Germany where frovatriptan
is marketed as Allegro®, the drug’s
share of the overall triptan market is
approximately 10 per cent. Frovatriptan
is approved in an additional 18
European territories, as well as five 
Key point of differentiation Long half-life – Low recurrence
Plasma half-life (h)
Frovatriptan 2.5mg
Sumatriptan 6mg (sc)
Rizatriptan 10mg
Sumatriptan 100mg
Zolmitriptan 2.5mg
Eletriptan 80mg
Almotriptan 12.5mg
Naratriptan 2.5mg
Recurrence (%)
0
5 10 15 20 25
10
20
30
40
50
0 30 11
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Central American countries and is
expected to be launched in a number 
of these in 2005. 
In September 2004, frovatriptan was
granted approval in Canada for the
treatment of acute migraine. The
approval follows a successful dialogue
with the Canadian Health Authorities
regarding the product label, a necessary
step prior to initiation of the national
pricing approval. In the same month,
Vernalis signed an agreement with SK
Chemicals Co. granting them exclusive
distribution rights to frovatriptan in the
Korean market. Vernalis received an
upfront payment and is due a further
payment if Korean marketing authorisation
is obtained, in addition to revenues
from future product supply.
R&D operations
development pipeline
Frovatriptan – clinical development in
menstrually-related migraine. Vernalis
is currently conducting further studies
to develop frovatriptan as a prophylactic
oral treatment for menstrually-related
migraine, a form of migraine suffered by
over 50 per cent of female migraineurs.
In the United States this represents
approximately 13 million women. None
of the triptan class of drugs is currently
approved for prophylactic use in
migraine. Frovatriptan’s long half-life
(approximately 26 hours) makes it
ideally suited to this novel application.
In October 2002, Vernalis reported
positive preliminary results from a study
conducted at 36 clinics in the US and
involving more than 500 menstrual
migraine sufferers. Patients were
evaluated over three menstrual cycles
over the course of which each patient
received all three dose regimens –
placebo, 2.5mg frovatriptan once daily
and 2.5mg frovatriptan twice daily.
During each cycle they took the
treatment for a total of six days
commencing two days before the
expected onset of their headache. 
The results showed that both once- and
twice-daily dose regimens of frovatriptan
were highly effective in reducing the
incidence, severity and duration of
menstrually-related migraines compared
with placebo. By the intention-to-treat
analysis, 51 per cent of patients were
completely headache-free during the 
six-day period when they took 2.5mg
frovatriptan twice daily and 40 per cent
were headache-free at a once-daily dose
of 2.5mg, compared with only 26 per
cent on placebo. The results of the
study were presented to the American
Academy of Neurology in the US in April
2003, and have been published in key
scientific journals, including the July
2004 edition of Neurology.
Two further trials are required to
complete the data package for a
supplemental New Drug Approval
application in the US to permit
frovatriptan to be marketed as a short-
term prophylaxis for menstrually-related
migraine. The first, a long-term safety
study in 550 patients, is fully recruited
and is expected to complete in H2
2005. An interim analysis of the six-
month data from this study will be
published in Q2 2005. The second, 
a 600 patient study to confirm the
efficacy observed in the initial study,
commenced in Q4 2004, with
recruitment ongoing and is expected to
complete H2 2005. If the positive initial
results are confirmed, these studies
should lead to regulatory submissions
in the US and Europe in 2006. On FDA
approval of the menstrually-related
migraine indication, Endo will make 
an additional payment of $40 million 
to Vernalis.
V10153 is a recombinant protein
designed to dissolve blood clots and
therefore to improve the treatment 
of diseases such as stroke, acute
myocardial infarction (AMI) and deep
vein thrombosis (DVT). The drug has 
been designed in such a way that it 
only becomes active in the presence 
of newly-formed or forming bloodclots. 
This may be important in helping 
to overcome the major drawback 
of existing thrombolytic agents, that 
of internal bleeding. Conditions such 
as stroke may be under-treated 
because of this risk, particularly
intracranial haemorrhage. 
V10153 was initially evaluated by a
consortium of cardiologists in the US
and Europe (the TIMI Study Group) in 
a Phase IIa ascending dose study to
establish proof-of-concept (i.e. that it
can dissolve clots and restore coronary
bloodflow) in patients who have
suffered AMI. The study also evaluated
the safety of treatment with V10153,
especially with respect to bleeding.
This study has now successfully
completed. V10153 was well 
tolerated throughout the dose range 
of 1-10mg/kg by patients with AMI. 
Full restoration of blood flow was
observed in blocked coronary arteries 
in around 40 per cent of patients after
60 minutes following doses of 5mg/kg
and greater. This is comparable to the
efficacy reported for other marketed
thrombolytic therapies using a similar
experimental protocol. 
The next stage in the development of
V10153 is to conduct a Phase II clinical
trial in approximately 150 patients 
with acute ischaemic stroke, which is
expected to start in H1 2005. Vernalis
wishes to retain the full value of this
product and plans to undertake these
trials alone. In parallel, work is being
undertaken to improve the production
process prior to manufacturing material
for Phase III studies.
Studies suggest menstruation acts as a trigger 
for more than half of women who suffer from
migraine attacks. Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations 
12
Vernalis plc
Objective


Achievement



Vernalis has a marketed product and five competitive products in clinical
development. The two significant deals with Novartis and Biogen Idec served 
to endorse Vernalis’ scientific expertise and the Company continues to drive its
internal programmes as well as progress the establishment of a United States
sales and marketing infrastructure.
Resolute
&
Driven 13
Vernalis plc Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations continued
14
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
V2006 is an adenosine A
2A 
receptor
antagonist. Vernalis initiated research 
in 1998 to assess the potential of
selective adenosine A
2A
receptor
antagonists in the chronic treatment 
of Parkinson’s disease, a debilitating
and progressive movement disorder 
that affects approximately one per cent
of the population over 65 or about 
1.5 million people in the United States. 
Adenosine is a brain chemical that plays
an important role in motor co-ordination
and movement control. Vernalis believes
that by using selective adenosine A
2A
receptor antagonists to restore the
imbalance of neurotransmitters caused
by the loss of dopamine, it may provide
a novel approach to treat the symptoms
of Parkinson’s disease and to slow or
stop the progression of the disease. 
In particular, A
2A
receptor antagonists
may be able to restore function in
Parkinson’s disease patients without
inducing unwanted side effects such 
as nausea and dyskinesia (uncontrolled
movements). 
V2006 is the first development
compound from this research
programme. An initial Phase I study of
V2006, a single ascending dose study
in healthy male volunteers designed 
to investigate the drug’s safety and
pharmacokinetics, has been successfully
completed. The drug was shown to be
safe and well tolerated in this study,
achieving potentially therapeutic
concentrations at the lowest dose
tested. The long plasma half-life 
(18 hours) of V2006 in normal 
subjects would be consistent with 
a simple, once-daily dosing regimen.
The Phase I programme for V2006
continues, with the goal to begin 
a Phase II proof-of-concept study 
in H2 2005.
In June 2004 Vernalis entered into an
agreement with Biogen Idec, giving them
exclusive worldwide rights to develop
and commercialise Vernalis’ lead
compound, V2006. At the time of
signing, Vernalis received a $10 million
licence fee, with Biogen Idec also
making a $6 million investment in new
Vernalis shares. Biogen Idec are funding
all the clinical development with Vernalis
receiving a series of further payments
of up to $100 million if programme
milestones are met, and double-digit
royalties on commercial sales of
collaboration products. Vernalis retains
the right to co-promote the product 
in the United States.
V140 is a GABA
A
agonist targeted 
at the treatment of pain in cancer
patients. It was in-licensed from
Monash University, Melbourne,
Australia, and was previously tested 
in patients in an open-label pilot study
conducted in Australia under the Clinical
Trial Notification (CTN) Scheme. In this
study, indications of analgesic efficacy
were seen in patients who received a
single dose of V140 after orthopaedic
knee surgery with no sedative side
effects. V140 presents an opportunity
to be used alongside, or as a
replacement for, current opiate-based
pain therapies. Preliminary pre-clinical
studies indicate that V140 is capable 
of providing an improved profile over
current therapies since it is expected 
to produce non-sedating analgesia. 
An initial Phase I clinical programme 
to evaluate V140’s safety and
pharmacokinetic properties in single
and multiple dose studies found the
compound to be safe and well tolerated
in single and multiple doses. Subject 
to the satisfactory completion of further
pre-clinical studies it is intended to
evaluate V140 in a Phase II proof-of-
concept trial, which is expected to start
in H1 2005. This will investigate the
opiate-sparing and analgesic efficacy
and safety in patients undergoing
elective total knee replacement surgery.
MMPI In October 2000, Vernalis
entered into a research collaboration
with Serono to identify new compounds
for clinical development for the
treatment of inflammatory diseases.
Following successful completion of 
the research collaboration, all further
activities will be conducted by Serono.
In January 2005 Serono started a
Phase I clinical trial of a selective
inhibitor of MMP-12 (matrix
metalloprotease inhibitor 12). This 
is the first compound to enter the 
clinic resulting from the research
collaboration, entitling Vernalis, 
under the terms of the agreement, 
to a milestone payment. The Phase I 
trial is being performed in healthy
volunteers, with a primary objective 
of elucidating the safety, tolerability 
and pharmacokinetic properties of 
the compound. Serono will conduct 
and fund all development activities
associated with any programme that
enters the clinic, with Vernalis receiving
milestone payments and royalties 
upon successful commercialisation 
of any product. 
Vernalis is working towards making a difference
in patients’ lives. 15
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Research programmes
Oncology Our principal research
programme in oncology is aimed at
developing a synthetic small-molecule
inhibitor of Hsp90, a drug target
predicted to have relevance to 
a broad range of cancer types. 
The scientific rationale for Hsp90 as 
a therapeutic cancer target is based 
on the hypothesis that many of the
signalling proteins that behave aberrantly
in cancer cells require Hsp90 as a
chaperone molecule to ensure that 
they are maintained in an active form.
Inhibition of Hsp90 results in interference
in multiple signalling pathways that
mediate cancer growth and cell survival. 
Vernalis has been optimising small
molecule compounds which inhibit the
ATPase function of Hsp90 and has filed
patent applications in this area. The
project is in the lead optimisation phase
and is scheduled to identify a pre-clinical
development candidate in H2 2005. 
In December 2003, Vernalis formed 
a new research collaboration with the
Novartis Institutes for BioMedical
Research, Inc. (Novartis) in Cambridge,
Massachusetts to investigate inhibitors
of Hsp90. Under the terms of the
agreement Vernalis provided elements
of its ongoing oncology research 
to Novartis for an initial six-month
evaluation period. In August 2004,
Novartis chose to exercise its option 
to license exclusive worldwide rights to
Hsp90, with the companies conducting
a joint research programme under which
Novartis will provide research funding to
Vernalis over an initial three-year period.
Novartis is responsible for funding and
conducting the pre-clinical and clinical
development of product candidates, and
for commercialisation. Novartis paid
Vernalis an initial fee under the licence
agreement of $1.5 million and made 
an equity investment of $9 million.
Obesity Vernalis’ research into
treatments for obesity and related
disorders is in two fields: the potential
use of selective 5-HT
2C
receptor
agonists; and the potential of CB
1
receptor antagonists. The World Health
Organisation (WHO) has declared
obesity as the largest global chronic
health problem in adults. Indeed, 
by 2025, WHO estimates that obesity 
will emerge as a more serious world
problem than malnutrition. 
Vernalis scientists discovered that 
5-HT
2C
is a key receptor for controlling
satiety. This was a significant finding
since it is known that 5-HT
2C
receptors
are present in high density in the brain
(in particular in areas that control
eating) but not in the cardiovascular
system. Hence, adverse effects seen
with older obesity drugs (due to their
non-selective activity across a variety 
of 5-HT receptors) may be avoided with
a selective 5-HT
2C
receptor agonist. 
In 1999, Vernalis partnered its 5-HT
2C
programme with Roche, the world’s
leading pharmaceutical company in
sales of prescription treatments for
obesity. A development candidate 
has been selected by Roche which 
is currently undergoing pre-clinical
studies. If pre-clinical testing 
is successful, further development
would be undertaken by Roche.
In our other obesity research
programme, we are aiming to develop
potent and selective cannabinoid CB
1
receptor antagonists. Currently, two
cannabinoid receptors have been
described: the CB
1
receptor, which is
distributed widely in the central nervous
system; and the CB
2
receptor which 
is generally localised in the periphery
(e.g. immune cells). Clinical studies with
Sanofi’s compound rimonabant, support
the hypothesis that CB
1
receptor
antagonists have potential utility for 
the treatment of obesity. A focused
medicinal chemistry programme has
rapidly identified novel, selective CB
1
receptor antagonists with oral efficacy
in pre-clinical feeding models. 
Infection In August 2002, Vernalis
entered into a collaboration with
GeneSoft Pharmaceuticals Inc 
(now part of Oscient Pharmaceuticals
Corp.) to discover and develop novel 
anti-infectives based on Vernalis’
proprietary anti-bacterial PDF and other
metalloenzyme inhibitors. In October
2003 Vernalis’ peptide deformylase
inhibitor research programme in the
antibiotic field was out-licensed to
Oscient in its entirety. Under this 
out-licensing agreement, Oscient 
has assumed responsibility for all
further research and development, 
with Vernalis receiving milestone and
royalty payments if products progress
through development and to market.
Simon Sturge
Chief Executive Officer
Vernalis supports open and interactive exchanges
with both its employees and its partners.
Much of the science supporting the Company’s
research activities is performed at Vernalis’
modern laboratories in Winnersh and Cambridge.
