 Overview
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2008
During 2008, Vernalis has been able successfully to implement
a far-reaching restructuring of its operations, including a major
headcount reduction and the divestment and realisation of
several assets. Since the year end Vernalis has announced
a fully underwritten £22.1 million (net of expenses) equity
fundraising. These successes have placed the Group on a robust
ﬁnancial platform with a signiﬁcantly extended cash runway.
In parallel, the Group has achieved further important progress
with its innovative clinical development pipeline, and also with
its discovery operations, which although reduced in size, have
progressed two novel late-stage programmes, one of which has
entered pre-clinical development since the year end.
Peter Fellner Chairman
The Vernalis clinical pipeline was strengthened further
with the reacquisition of V85546 in 2008 and the entry of
V158866 into pre-clinical studies in early 2009. The Group’s
broad pipeline, with four product candidates in Phase II
development, three further products in Phase I and two
programmes in pre-clinical is exceptional for a company
the size of Vernalis. This novel pipeline represents the key
element underpinning the Group’s capacity to create new
value. Three of the pipeline products are partnered with two
major companies, and further partnerships will be pursued
during 2009.
We have also put in place an outstanding new management
team. The restructuring and subsequent reorientation of the
Group has been very effectively led by our Chief Operating
Ofﬁcer, John Slater. A new Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Ian Garland,
who has an excellent track record in the biotechnology
sector, joined the Group at the end of 2008, and we have
also recruited a highly qualiﬁed, new Chief Financial Ofﬁcer,
David Mackney. Both Ian and David recently oversaw the
successful refocusing of Acambis plc, leading to its
acquisition by Sanoﬁ-Aventis in September 2008.
I believe that this new management team will substantially
reinforce the Group’s ability to build value from its strong
development pipeline, and also enable it to pursue a robust
and realistic business strategy.
During 2009, there will be a number of changes to the
Vernalis Board as a consequence of these appointments
and to streamline its structure at a time when tight control
of costs is paramount. I will be transitioning to non-executive
chairman and we will be reducing the number of non-
executive directors.
Finally, throughout the extensive changes which have
been implemented during the past year, our employees
and shareholders have given us very valuable support,
and on behalf of the Board I wish to thank them for this.
Dr Peter Fellner
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
04
