 Last year, in my first review following my appointment, 
I outlined the business strategy that your Company is
pursuing. This aims to build new value through the
Company taking an active role in consolidation within 
the biotechnology sector. Significant value creation
opportunities can arise by restructuring merged
companies in order to focus their resources upon 
their most competitive pipeline products, and by 
reducing the combined cost base.
During the past year, Vernalis has made important
advances in successfully implementing this strategy. 
The new Company, which was created by combining 
British Biotech, RiboTargets and Vernalis Group, 
has undergone extensive restructuring. Investment in 
R&D has been refocused upon the clinical development 
of four priority products, from an original portfolio of eight,
and upon a small group of key discovery programmes. 
The combined headcount of 270 will be reduced to 
about 110. This restructuring has decreased the cost
base of the merged business by approximately 
£13 million per annum.
There has also been significant value enhancement
through the clinical progress of the key pipeline products,
and through the new commercial strategies which are
being implemented for them.
Most importantly, in May 2004 Vernalis reacquired 
from Elan the entire North American rights for frovatriptan.
This represents a major opportunity for Vernalis, since the
Company believes that this product has substantial growth
potential if its use can be extended to the prophylaxis 
of menstrually associated migraine, and if a competitive
marketing effort can be undertaken with primary care
physicians. Vernalis will pay Elan a total of $50 million
over the period to 31 December 2005, and intends to seek
additional equity funding to assist with these payments.
Over the coming year the key priorities for the Company
are to realise fully the opportunity provided by regaining
these rights to frovatriptan, and to continue to advance
other key products and programmes within the R&D
portfolio.
Three current Non-Executive Directors plan to retire during
this year. Ian Kent, who was Chairman of RiboTargets and
was then appointed as a Director of Vernalis, will retire at
the forthcoming AGM. Eugene Williams, who has served
since 2001 as a Director of British Biotech, now Vernalis,
will also retire at the forthcoming AGM. Keith Merrifield,
who was appointed in 1995 as a Director of the Company,
plans to retire at the end of this year, having served for 
a total of nine years as a Director of British Biotech, now
Vernalis. The Board wishes to thank all of them for their
very important contributions to Vernalis during its
evolution and development.
Finally, I would like to express the Board’s appreciation of
the outstanding support provided by all of the Company’s
employees during the recent period of very extensive
change, and to thank our shareholders for their continued
commitment to the Company and its strategy.
Peter Fellner
Executive Chairman
3
Vernalis 
Annual report and accounts 2003
Chairman’s review
