 10
Vernalis 
Annual report and accounts 2003
The restructuring and rationalisation of the merged
companies’ resources is now largely complete. In the
process, we have reduced our cost base and sharpened 
our development focus to concentrate on what we believe
are the most promising opportunities in our portfolio. 
The pace of our turnaround has also been accelerated by
the reacquisition of North American rights for frovatriptan
from Elan for a total of $50 million. I believe this is 
a transforming moment for Vernalis that will have far-
reaching benefits. It regains control of the Company’s
most valuable asset in its most important market and
allows the Company a much greater influence over 
the future strategy for frovatriptan and in particular, 
the potential menstrually-associated migraine indication. 
It is our goal to repartner frovatriptan for North America with
a company which shares our aspirations for the product
and, in particular, its potential in the prophylactic treatment
of menstrually-associated migraine. We expect to benefit
from upfront and milestone payments and an improved
royalty return from any such commercialisation partner. 
We also expect to benefit as frovatriptan is rolled out 
in new European territories. In the longer term we also
anticipate sales will be boosted should frovatriptan 
receive approval as a prophylactic for menstrually-
associated migraine.
The positive results recently announced from our clinical
studies with V10153 and V2006 have also enhanced the
outlook for the Company. Partnering remains a key element
of the Company’s strategy and detailed discussions on 
co-development and co-commercialisation of some aspects
of the pipeline are ongoing with potential collaborators.
Additionally, we have made good progress in our
collaborations with Roche in obesity and with Serono in
inflammatory/immune disorders with the objective that
both programmes yield development candidates within the
next 12 months. Towards the end of 2003, a new cancer
research collaboration was initiated with Novartis Institutes
for Biomedical Research Inc.
In summary, Vernalis is well positioned to play a leading
role in the biotechnology sector. Regaining the rights to
frovatriptan in the world’s largest pharmaceutical market
is an extremely exciting opportunity and our priority will 
be to maximise its potential. At the same time we will
continue to build value through the progression of our
products and research and by participating in further
consolidation of the industry. 
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations
2003 was a transforming year for Vernalis in which 
your Company embarked on a new strategy of using
mergers and acquisitions to assemble the assets for 
a sustainable, self-funding, R&D-driven biotechnology
company. The first transaction combined British Biotech
and RiboTargets, strengthening the Company’s balance
sheet and management capabilities and rejuvenating its
research. This was followed by the merger with Vernalis
Group, through which your Company gained its most
valuable asset, frovatriptan, and further strengthened 
its scientific base as a result of Vernalis’ expertise in
neuroscience and central nervous system disorders. period to 31 December 2005. Vernalis has stated that 
it intends seeking additional equity funding to assist with
these payments. 
Frovatriptan – clinical development in menstrually-
associated migraine Vernalis is currently conducting
further studies to develop frovatriptan as a prophylactic
oral treatment for menstrually-associated migraine, 
a form of migraine suffered by over 50 per cent of female
migraineurs. None of the triptan class of drugs is currently
approved for prophylactic use in migraine. Frovatriptan’s
long half-life (approximately 26 hours) makes it ideally
suited to this novel application.
In October 2002 Vernalis reported positive preliminary 
results from a study conducted at 36 clinics in the US 
and involving more than 500 menstrual migraine sufferers.
Patients were evaluated over three menstrual cycles over
the course of which each patient received all three dose
regimens – placebo, 2.5mg frovatriptan once daily and
2.5mg frovatriptan twice daily. During each cycle they took
the treatment for a total of six days commencing two days
before the expected onset of their headache. 
The results showed that both once- and twice-daily dose
regimens of frovatriptan were highly effective in reducing
the incidence, severity and duration of menstrually-
associated migraines compared with placebo. By the
intention-to-treat analysis 50 per cent of patients were
completely headache-free during the six-day period when
they took 2.5mg frovatriptan twice daily and 39 per cent
were headache-free at a once-daily dose of 2.5mg,
compared with only 26 per cent on placebo. The results 
of the study were presented to the American Academy 
of Neurology in the US in April 2003, and will be published
in key scientific and clinical journals in due course. 
A long-term Phase III safety study is under way and a
confirmatory Phase IIIb efficacy trial is planned for Q2
2004 to support extension of frovatriptan’s existing label 
R&D operations
Development pipeline
Frovatriptan Frovatriptan is a selective 5-HT1B/1D receptor
agonist approved as an acute oral treatment for migraine
headache and its associated symptoms. It is one of 
a class of prescription drugs called triptans, a number 
of which are already approved for this indication. 
Having licensed the product from SmithKline Beecham,
the discoverer of the compound, in 1994, Vernalis
completed the outstanding pre-clinical work and in January
1995 began a series of Phase I clinical trials. These were
followed in January 1996 by Phase II clinical trials in more
than 1,600 migraineurs. Phase III clinical trials in more
than 3,000 migraineurs across 17 countries were started
in March 1997. 
Following these studies, frovatriptan was granted
marketing approval in the US in November 2001 for 
the acute treatment of migraine. Since June 2002 it 
has been marketed as Frova™ by a combined sales force
from Elan and UCB. In 2003 Elan reported Frova sales 
of $37.5 million and by December 2003, 18 months after
launch, Frova had achieved a share of more than three per
cent of the US market for triptans (source: IMS Health). 
Our European licensee, Menarini International, launched
frovatriptan in Germany, the first European market, in
November 2002. After one year on the market it had gained
around seven per cent of the German triptan prescription
market. Menarini has also launched frovatriptan in Austria,
Eire and the UK. In January 2004 the product gained
marketing approval in Switzerland and pricing approval in
Italy. Further European launches are expected during 2004. 
In May 2004 shareholders approved the reacquisition 
of rights for frovatriptan in North America from Elan for 
a total of $50 million, payable in instalments over the 
11
Vernalis 
Annual report and accounts 2003 to include this novel indication. If the positive initial results
are confirmed, these studies should lead to regulatory
submissions in the US and Europe during 2005. 
V10153 V10153 (formerly BB-10153) is a recombinant
protein designed to improve the treatment of diseases
such as stroke, acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and
deep vein thrombosis (DVT). The drug has been designed
in such a way that it only becomes active in the presence
of newly-formed or forming bloodclots. This may be
important in helping to overcome the major drawback 
of existing thrombolytic agents, that of internal bleeding.
Conditions such as stroke may be under-treated because
of this risk, particularly intracranial haemorrhage. 
In March 2002, the FDA gave clearance for a Phase II study
of V10153 in AMI patients by the US-based Thrombolysis 
In Myocardial Infarction Study Group. The trial was designed
to test the ability of V10153, administered at doses up to
10mg/kg, to dissolve clots and restore blood flow in the
coronary arteries of heart attack patients. The study also
evaluated the safety of treatment with V10153, especially
with respect to bleeding. 
This study has now been successfully completed. V10153
was well tolerated throughout the dose range of 1-10mg/kg
to patients with AMI. Full restoration of blood flow was
observed in blocked coronary arteries in around 40 per cent
of patients after 60 minutes following doses of 5mg/kg and
greater. This is comparable to the efficacy reported for other
marketed thrombolytic therapies using a similar experimental
protocol. Initial analysis of safety (episodes of bleeding) is
encouraging with no spontaneous bleeds. 
The next stage in development of V10153 will be a Phase
II study in approximately 100 patients with acute stroke.
Vernalis is currently evaluating whether to undertake this
study itself or wait until a collaboration has been secured. 
V2006 (formerly VR-2006) Vernalis initiated research in
1998 to assess the potential of selective adenosine A2A
receptor antagonists in the chronic treatment of Parkinson’s
disease, a debilitating and progressive movement disorder
that affects approximately one per cent of the population
over 65. Common Parkinson’s disease symptoms include
stiffening of the muscles, difficulty in movement, tremors
and shaking. The primary cause of these problems is
nerve degeneration and cell death in the brain. This leads
3 2110 7.5 SK**
(90 mins)
tPA* 5
V10153
Coronary artery thrombolysis by V10153
tPA
Streptokinase
*  TIMI 14:  Antman et al. 
 Circulation 1999, 
 99: 2720
**  GUSTO-1: N. Eng. J. Med. 
 1993; 329: 1615
% of patients with successful blood
 flow restoration at 60 minutes
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
12
Vernalis 
Annual report and accounts 2003
Frovatriptan
Frovatriptan
V10153
V2006
V140
5-HT 2C agonists
MEIs
A 2A antagonists
Hsp90
CB 1 antagonists
Acute treatment of migraine
Prophylactic treatment of menstrual migraine
Stroke; peripheral arterial occlusion
Parkinson’s disease
Cancer pain
Obesity
Inflammatory
Depression
Cancer
Obesity
Menarini
Serono
Roche
Late
research
Pre clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III Market
Dev/mkt
partner
Product Indication
Product pipeline
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations continued
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
5.0mg 2.5mg Placebo
***(p<0.0001)
Efficacy of frovatriptan in preventing MAM headache
Proportion of patients headache-free throughout treatment period
Sources: Silberstein et al. 
Neurology 60 Suppl 1.
A94. 2003
%of patients
***
*** to the loss of dopamine, a chemical in the brain involved 
in controlling voluntary movement. Most conventional
therapies for Parkinson’s disease are based on dopamine
replacement. Whilst these treatments are generally
effective in the short term, they can have severe, 
or even disabling, side effects and their effectiveness
tends to decrease over time. 
Adenosine is another brain chemical that plays an
important role in motor co-ordination and movement
control. Vernalis believes that by using selective
adenosine A2A receptor antagonists to restore the
imbalance of neurotransmitters caused by the loss of
dopamine, it may provide a novel approach to treat the
symptoms of Parkinson’s disease and to slow or stop 
the progression of the disease. In particular, A2A receptor
antagonists may be able to restore function in Parkinson’s
disease patients without inducing unwanted side effects
such as nausea and dyskinesia (uncontrolled movements). 
V2006 was selected as a development candidate from this
research programme in April 2002. An initial Phase I study
of V2006, a single ascending dose study in healthy male
volunteers designed to investigate the drug’s safety and
pharmacokinetics, has been successfully completed. 
The drug was safe and well tolerated and exposure was
observed to increase with dose. Potentially therapeutic
blood levels (based on predictions from pre-clinical studies)
were achieved following the lowest dose of 5mg, which
provides reassurance that a wide therapeutic ratio might
be achieved in patients. Also, the long plasma half-life (18
hours) of V2006 in normal subjects would be consistent
with a simple, once-daily dosing regimen. The Phase I
clinical programme continues and is expected to be
completed during 2004. Discussions are currently in
progress with a number of companies interested in
collaborating in the V2006 programme. Such collaborations
may also encompass Vernalis’ research into the A2A
receptor subtype as a novel target for a new class of
antidepressant drugs.
V140 V140 (formerly R140) is targeted at the treatment
of pain in cancer patients. It was in-licensed from Monash
University, Melbourne, Australia, and was previously 
tested in patients in an open label pilot study conducted
in Australia under the Clinical Trial Notification (CTN)
Scheme. In this study, indications of analgesic efficacy
were seen in patients who received a single dose of V140
after orthopaedic knee surgery. No sedative side effects
were seen in this study. 
V140 presents an opportunity to be used alongside, or 
as a replacement for, current opiate-based pain therapies. 
It has the potential to improve the overall management 
of pain in cancer patients. Preliminary pre-clinical studies
indicate that V140 is capable of providing an improved
profile over current therapies since it is expected to
produce non-sedating analgesia. 
A Phase I clinical programme to evaluate V140’s safety
and pharmacokinetic properties in single and multiple
dose studies was started in September 2003. Following
the conclusion to the initial Phase I studies, a Phase Ic
study to test the analgesic properties of the compound 
in healthy volunteers has commenced. The test system 
is believed to be a model of neuropathic pain; the results
from this study are expected during the middle of 2004. 
Other products A Phase II clinical trial of VLM670
involving approximately 240 male and female patients
with sexual dysfunction failed to achieve its primary
endpoint, although some secondary endpoints were
positive. Following an internal review, Vernalis
announced in October 2003 that it would not undertake
any further development of VML670. The agreements
with ImmunoGen and MethylGene to develop BB-10901
and MG98 respectively have been renegotiated.
Vernalis has relinquished all rights to these products
and will not undertake any further development beyond
the completion of certain ongoing clinical studies. 
13
Vernalis 
Annual report and accounts 2003
Studies suggest
menstruation acts 
as a trigger for more
than half of women
who suffer from
migraine attacks.
Reports also indicate 
that menstrually-
associated migraines
tend to last longer
than other migraines
and are more likely 
to recur after initial
response to treatment. 14
Vernalis 
Annual report and accounts 2003
Page heads
Research programmes 
Oncology Our principal research programme in oncology 
is aimed at developing a synthetic small-molecule inhibitor
of Hsp90, a drug target predicted to have relevance to 
a broad range of cancer types. This programme is being
conducted in collaboration with the Institute of Cancer
Research and Cancer Research Technology, under an
exclusive research and development agreement which
provides access to relevant cancer models. 
The scientific rationale for Hsp90 as a therapeutic cancer
target is based on the hypothesis that many of the
signalling proteins that behave aberrantly in cancer cells
require Hsp90 as a chaperone molecule to ensure that
they are maintained in an active form. Inhibition of Hsp90
results in interference in multiple signalling pathways 
that mediate cancer growth and cell survival. 
Vernalis has been optimising small molecule compounds
which inhibit the ATPase function of Hsp90 and has filed
patent applications in this area. The project is in the 
lead optimisation phase and is scheduled to identify 
a pre-clinical development candidate in 2004. 
In December 2003 Vernalis formed a new research
collaboration with the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical
Research, Inc. (NIBRI) in Cambridge, MA, USA, to
investigate inhibitors of a target implicated in the
progression of a range of cancers. Under the agreement
Vernalis is providing elements of its ongoing oncology
research to NIBRI for an initial six-month evaluation period
after which NIBRI will have the right to enter a longer-term
research and development collaboration. During this
evaluation period NIBRI is conducting its own research
and funding research at Vernalis’ laboratories in
Cambridge, UK.
Obesity Vernalis’ research into treatments for obesity 
and related disorders is in two fields: the potential use 
of selective 5-HT 2C receptor agonists; and the potential 
of CB1 receptor antagonists. 
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared obesity
as the largest global chronic health problem in adults.
Indeed, by 2025, WHO estimates that obesity will emerge
as a more serious world problem than malnutrition. In the
US it is claimed that 300,000 Americans now die from
obesity-related diseases every year, with the economic
cost of obesity to the US healthcare system estimated 
at $100 billion annually. A recent survey estimated 
that 15 per cent of US children and adolescents were
overweight (National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey 1999-2000). A similar picture is emerging in Britain.
A report by the National Audit Office (Tackling Obesity 
in Britain 2001) estimated that one in five UK adults 
is obese, and that 30,000 lives may be lost each year 
as a result of the condition. 
In 1997, Vernalis scientists discovered that 5-HT 2C is a 
key receptor for controlling satiety. This was a significant
finding since it is known that 5-HT 2C receptors are present
in high density in the brain (in particular in areas that
control eating) but not in the cardiovascular system. Hence,
adverse effects seen with older obesity drugs (due to their
non-selective activity across a variety of 5-HT receptors)
may be avoided with a selective 5-HT 2C receptor agonist. 
In 1999 Vernalis partnered its 5-HT 2C programme with
Roche, the world’s leading pharmaceutical company in
sales of prescription treatments for obesity. The first
compound nominated for development was discontinued
early in Phase I in July 2002 after failing to achieve
pharmacokinetic criteria for further development. Roche
has since selected a second development candidate which
is currently undergoing pre-clinical studies. The agreement
gives Roche exclusive worldwide rights to develop and
commercialise compounds discovered in the programme. 
Chief Executive Officer’s review of operations continued
Much of the science
supporting the
Company’s
collaborative 
research activities 
is performed at
Vernalis’ modern
laboratories in
Winnersh and
Cambridge In our other obesity research programme we are aiming 
to develop potent and selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor
antagonists. Currently, two cannabinoid receptors have
been described: the CB1 receptor, which is distributed
widely in the central nervous system; and the CB2 receptor
which is generally localised in the periphery (e.g. immune
cells). Extensive pre-clinical data support the hypothesis
that CB1 receptor antagonists have potential utility for 
the treatment of obesity. A focused medicinal chemistry
programme has rapidly identified novel, selective CB1
receptor antagonists with oral efficacy in pre-clinical
feeding models. The programme aims to identify a 
lead candidate during 2004. 
Depression Recent pre-clinical research by Vernalis
suggests that adenosine, and specifically the adenosine
A2A receptor subtype, may be a novel target for the
discovery of a new class of antidepressant drugs.
Transgenic animals with the A2A receptor gene deleted
have shown a pattern of activity in pre-clinical models of
depression that appears to be predictive of antidepressant
activity in humans. Vernalis has also synthesised selective
adenosine A2A receptor antagonists that show activity in
pre-clinical models of depression and we are currently
working to optimise the selectivity and pharmacokinetic
properties of the most promising compounds. 
Inflammation In October 2000, Vernalis entered into a
two-year research collaboration with Serono, to identify
new compounds for clinical development for the treatment
of inflammatory diseases. In October 2002, the term of
the research collaboration was extended for a further year
to October 2003, with the aim of identifying candidates for
development. That research collaboration has now expired
and the parties are in discussion about selection of
candidates for further development. Serono will undertake
the further development of any candidates selected, with
Vernalis receiving milestone payments and royalties upon
successful commercialisation of products. 
Infection In August 2002, Vernalis entered into a
collaboration with GeneSoft Pharmaceuticals Inc (now 
part of Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corp.) to discover and
develop novel anti-infectives based on Vernalis’ proprietary
anti-bacterial PDF and other metalloenzyme inhibitors. 
In October 2003 Vernalis’ peptide deformylase inhibitor
research programme in the antibiotic field was out-
licensed to Oscient in its entirety. Under this out-licensing
agreement, Oscient has assumed responsibility for all
further research and development, with Vernalis receiving
milestone and royalty payments if products progress
through development and to market.
Simon Sturge
Chief Executive Officer
15
Vernalis 
Annual report and accounts 2003
