 Chairman’s review
03
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2004
We have a high level of confidence in
the therapeutic and market opportunity
for frovatriptan, which is clearly
differentiated from other triptans by 
its much extended half-life in patients. 
With our major agreement with Endo
Pharmaceuticals Inc. we believe we now
have the right partner to significantly
enhance the value of this product. Endo
has an excellent reputation as one of
the leading North American speciality
pharmaceutical companies in the area
of pain management, with a substantial
sales force targeting neurologists and
primary care physicians. We believe 
that they will address the potential for
frovatriptan in the treatment of acute
migraine, as well as pave the way for 
its use in the prophylaxis of menstrually-
related migraine. Importantly for Vernalis,
our agreement with Endo provides us
with the opportunity to co-promote
frovatriptan in the US and we recently
announced that we intend to establish
our own US-based sales force, initially
substantially funded by Endo.
Two other important partnerships were
successfully established during 2004,
both of which will significantly advance
key R&D programmes. In June we
entered into a collaboration with Biogen
Idec Inc. to develop V2006, a novel
treatment for Parkinson’s disease. 
In August we started a major research
collaboration with Novartis to develop
new treatments for cancer, focused
upon an innovative, validated target,
Hsp90. Biogen Idec and Novartis 
are leaders in the fields of neurology
and oncology respectively, and these
partnerships further endorse Vernalis’
outstanding R&D capabilities.
Vernalis in its new integrated form was
built through the combination of three
companies during 2003. Last year 
we promised to realise extensive cost
synergies by refocusing and prioritising
R&D programmes, and by substantially
scaling back infrastructure and non-R&D
expenditure. We have delivered on 
all fronts which resulted in the post-
merger cost savings being achieved.
In order to build upon the robust
progress achieved during 2004, Vernalis
recently announced a very successful
secondary financing, which raised 
over £30 million. These funds will be
used to establish the US commercial
infrastructure, to progress the Company’s
clinical development programmes, 
and also to expand the pipeline with
additional product candidates. 
Following the successful integration 
of the Group, there have been a number
of planned Board changes. Ian Kent 
and Eugene Williams retired as Non-
Executive Directors from the Board
during the year, and Peter Worrall
retired as an Executive Director. 
We thank all of them for their valuable
contributions, particularly during the
integration process.
Allan Baxter, Senior Vice President 
of Drug Discovery at GlaxoSmithKline, 
who oversees their global discovery
efforts, joined as a Non-Executive
Director in May, and brings great
experience of modern pharmaceutical
R&D. In November, John Slater was
appointed as General Counsel, an
Executive Director position, with
responsibility both for legal matters 
and business development. He was
previously in a similar role at Celltech,
and has exceptional experience both 
in establishing corporate partnerships
and in mergers and acquisitions.
In summary, 2004 has been a year 
of great change at Vernalis, which has
emerged as one of the most dynamic
European biotechnology companies. 
We look forward to further strong
progress with our clinical pipeline 
during the coming year, including 
the completion of the Phase III
programme with frovatriptan in
menstrually-related migraine patients. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank our shareholders for their
continued support during the past year,
and to thank all of our employees for
their efforts and contributions during 
a period of extensive change.
Peter Fellner
Chairman
I am very pleased to report that 2004 was a transforming year for Vernalis.
Important advances were achieved with all our key products and programmes
across the R&D portfolio, including a landmark licensing agreement for
frovatriptan, our marketed product for migraine. In addition, other major licensing
agreements concluded during 2004 substantially exceeded expectations, and
served to illustrate our commitment to adding value in each transaction.
