 Review 05
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Why did I join Vernalis?
Like many in the biotech sector, both in the UK and
internationally, I was familiar with Vernalis’ history and in
particular its 2007 failure to gain approval of Frova
®
in the
US for the additional indication of menstrual migraine prevention.
Upon closer review, however, with a broad pipeline and a
number of existing collaborations it was clear that there
remained tremendous potential and signiﬁcant unrecognised
value within the Group despite the Frova
®
disappointment.
That closer review also highlighted two key challenges that
the Group faced: insufﬁcient cash to deliver the potential
value in the pipeline and an unsustainable cash burn.
In the midst of a global recession and a continuing credit
crisis it was always going to be difﬁcult to attract new
investment into Vernalis, particularly because of the recent
Frova®disappointment, but I felt the upside potential
justiﬁed taking on these challenges and four months into
the role I have no regrets.
Future strategy
Our strategy to re-build signiﬁcant value for shareholders
is to take a risk-based approach to investment in high
potential value novel medicines while maintaining a tight
control of costs.
Partnering will be a key component of our strategy both in
the near and midterm, and we will endeavour only to develop
programmes that are of interest to potential partners. Some
programmes will be partnered with no further investment
by the Group. These will be the programmes where the risk
and level of investment required is greater than could be
taken on by a company of our size. We will, through such
partnering, build a portfolio of development programmes
in which we retain an economic upside without requiring
signiﬁcant further involvement or investment from the Group.
We will continue to invest in the remaining programmes
potentially up to proof-of-concept to increase their value
to the Group. We will partner these programmes when the
value we can achieve from partnering provides a substantial
return on our investment or when the risk and cost of
continued in-house development is inappropriate for a
company the size of Vernalis.
Our pipeline of development programmes will be sourced from
both internal investment in research and through in-licensing
or acquisition of early stage programmes that meet our tight
criteria for investment. The costs of maintaining an in-house
research capability are substantial so we will seek to fund
the majority of our research infrastructure through external
collaborations. We will size our research activities based
upon the number of active collaborations so as to maintain
its affordability to the Group.
Chief Executive’s review
Ian Garland Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Review
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s review continued
06
2008 review and recent progress
During 2008, the Group implemented an extensive
restructuring of its business under which it settled its loan
with Endo, raised ﬁnance with Paul Capital Healthcare
from its European frovatriptan royalty stream, sold Apokyn®
and the Group’s US Operations to Ipsen, closed its
Winnersh-based research and downsized from 210 to
90 heads. Restructuring was concluded in the second
half of 2008 and achieved its goal of refocusing the
Group on delivering shareholder value from its research
and development activities.
The Group expanded its pipeline during 2008 with the
October 2008 reacquisition from Merck Serono of exclusive
worldwide rights to V85546, a Phase II-ready novel selective
anti-inﬂammatory that targets MMP12 and has in-vivo efﬁcacy
in pre-clinical models of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease (COPD), Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and liver ﬁbrosis.
Since the end of the year the pipeline has been expanded
further with the selection of a pre-clinical candidate, V158866,
from our late-stage research programme targeting FAAH,
a novel target with potential application in a wide range
of chronic pain conditions. In December 2008 the Group
commenced recruitment of patients into a Phase IIb study
of V3381 in neuropathic pain. We anticipate full recruitment
of the 150 patients in this study by the end of 2009 and
data becoming available in 2010.
Final study data from the V10153 Phase II open label stroke
study has now been received and conﬁrms that 5 mg/kg is
the appropriate dose to take forward into future studies.
We will review the ﬁnal data from this study with key opinion
leaders during 2009 to determine the most appropriate path
for further development of this compound. We will not make
any further investment in V10153 in-house and instead will
seek to progress this programme in collaboration with a
partner. Our CB1 antagonist, V24343, is being evaluated
in an ongoing dose ranging Phase I study which is expected
to report during the ﬁrst half 2009. During late 2008,
the class-leading CB1 receptor antagonist marketed by
Sanoﬁ-Aventis was withdrawn from the market in the EU
following the decision by the EMEA that the beneﬁts of
the drug no longer outweighed its risks. Other companies
with CB1 receptor antagonists in development have halted
their programmes because of the uncertain path to
marketing approval. We will not undertake any further
in-house investment in V24343 and this programme
will be discontinued.
The Group’s partnering activities in 2008 were focused
on V1512, our treatment for Parkinson’s disease. Despite
a signiﬁcant effort and very broad interest in this late-stage
programme, partnering has not yet been concluded with
the commercial opportunity, timeline and cost of pursuing
a Phase III programme all being cited as key considerations.
To address these issues, we have evaluated an alternative
505(b)(2) ﬁling strategy in the US and are exploring
partnering on this revised approach. The Group acquired
rights to this programme through its acquisition of Cita,
which had licensed it from Chiesi and, consequently, the
Group’s potential economic interest in the programme
is substantially lower than for other programmes in its
pipeline because of milestone and revenue shares payable.
Two of the Group’s programmes are being developed
by partners. V2006, which is partnered under the name
BIIB014 with Biogen Idec, is in clinical development for
Parkinson’s Disease and NVP-AUY922, which is partnered
with Novartis, is currently in a Phase I oncology study. Since
the end of the year, Biogen Idec has highlighted favourable
top-line data from its two Phase IIa studies of V2006 and
has noted that it is now developing a package to support
registrational studies. Neither we nor Biogen Idec has
publicised a target date for full study data becoming
available nor the planned timing of progressing the
programmes into later-stage studies. We expect an update
from Novartis on progression of NVP-AUY922 in 2009.
Excellent progress has been made in 2008 in our late-stage
research programmes where, since the year end, one
pre-clinical candidate (V158866) has been selected from
our FAAH programme, and during 2009 we plan to select
a pre-clinical candidate from our Chk1 programme.
We have also made good progress against our stated goal
of substantially funding our research infrastructure with
collaborations. In October 2008 we earned a €0.5 million
milestone under our existing three-year collaboration
with Servier against two undisclosed oncology targets.
This collaboration provides staff funding, research and
development milestones and royalties.
V3381
Looking forward to 2009, a key priority will be V3381 Review
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts 2008
07
During 2008, a signiﬁcant headcount reduction was
implemented that consolidated research into Cambridge
and reduced the size of the corporate infrastructure. A key
element of our strategy to rebuild shareholder value is to
maintain a tight control on costs and to be as efﬁcient as
possible. Since the end of the year we have reviewed further
the size of the corporate infrastructure, including the costs
of being a public company. The outcome of that further
review is that some additional heads will be eliminated from
our corporate functions, savings will be made in external
costs and as noted in the Chairman’s statement we will
reduce the size of our Board. We will continually evaluate
the size of our infrastructure and adapt it to the business
needs as necessary.
In April 2009 we announced a £22.1 million fundraising
(net of expenses) through a fully underwritten placing and
open offer of 799,112,129 ordinary shares at 3 pence
per share. The proceeds from the equity ﬁnancing, which
are dependent upon approval by shareholders at a meeting
on 18 May 2009, coupled with our cost containment
efforts provide us with sufﬁcient cash resources for the
foreseeable future.
Looking forward to 2009, a key priority will be V3381 where
we aim to complete recruitment of the Phase IIb neuropathic
pain study by the end of the year and to make data available
in 2010. We plan to partner V3381 following that Phase IIb
data becoming available but will explore partnering options
in parallel with the ongoing study. The other key programmes
for in-house investment in 2009 are V158866, our novel pain
compound targeting FAAH, and our late stage Chk1 oncology
research programme where we expect to announce a pre-
clinical development candidate during this year.
Our 2009 partnering efforts will focus on V85546 and
V1512 where we see the greatest potential to secure deals.
We will also seek to partner V10153 but partnering this
programme will be challenging.
Outlook
The outlook for the Group in 2009 is transformed from that
faced at the end of 2008. We have a new management
team, a strong cash position and a clear strategy to re-build
shareholder value. The 2009 goals and priorities are clear
and we are focused on executing the plan to achieve them.
Ian Garland
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
V85546
The Group expanded its pipeline during 2008 with the reacquisition
from Merck Serono of exclusive worldwide rights to V85546
