 A n n u a l R e p o r t a n d A c c o u n t s 2 0 0 9
1
17872	 19/05/2010	 Proof	8
1
l	 Robust	 performance	 in	 particularly	 challenging	 trading	 conditions
l	 EBITDA	 (earnings	 before	 interest,	 tax,	 depreciation	 and	 amortisation)	 increased	 by	 10%	 to	
£2	 million	 (2008:	 £1.8m)
l	 Revenue	 reduced	 by	 8%	 to	 £12.8	 million	 (2008:	 £13.9m)	 despite	 a	 full	 year	 of	 falling	 demand	
from	 the	 manufacturing	 sector
l	 Growth	 in	 maintenance	 revenues	 of	 18%,	 showing	 the	 continuing	 strength	 of	 recurring	 revenues
l	 Pre-tax	 profit	 of	 £0.6	 million	 (2008:	 £0.9m)
l	 Fully	 diluted	 earnings	 per	 share	 of	 1.94p	 (2008:	 2.27p)
l	 Completion	 of	 £2	 million	 re-financing	 achieved	 in	 December	 replacing	 the	 troublesome	 Fortis	
loans	 and	 restoring	 working	 capital	 headroom
Queen’s	 Award
The	 Company	 recently	 announced	 that	 they	 have	 been	 awarded	 the	 much	 coveted	
Queen’s	 Award	 for	 Enterprise	 2010.	 The	 Queen’s	 Awards	 are	 the	 UK’s	 most	 prestigious	
business	 awards	 and	 further	 endorse	 Vero	 as	 a	 leading	 UK	 company	 with	 a	 global	 reputation.	 The	
awards	 are	 made	 each	 year	 by	 The	 Queen,	 on	 the	 advice	 of	 the	 Prime	 Minister,	 who	 is	 assisted	
by	 an	 independent	 Advisory	 Committee	 that	 includes	 representatives	 of	 Government,	 industry	 and	
commerce,	 and	 the	 trade	 unions.	 The	 award	 will	 be	 officially	 presented	 by	 the	 Lord-Lieutenant	 of	 the	
County,	 The	 Queen’s	 local	 representative.
Vero	 Software	 Plc	 has	 been	 rewarded	 for	 its	 continuous	 achievement	 in	 international	 trade	 over	 the	
last	 6	 years.	
Our	 success	 owes	 a	 great	 deal	 to	 the	 dedication	 of	 our	 overseas	 operations.	 Each	 competence	
centre	 is	 fully	 trained	 with	 our	 product	 suite	 and	 has	 ‘real-life’	 industrial	 knowledge.	 This	 is	 vitally	
important	 when	 trying	 to	 promote	 new	 technologies	 into	 a	 well	 established	 CAD/CAM	 market.	
We	 are	 extremely	 proud	 and	 honoured	 to	 have	 won	 this	 award	 which	 is	 full	 recognition	 of	 the	
valuable	 work	 of	 our	 staff	 and	 extensive	 reseller	 network.	 We	 invest	 heavily	 in	 original	 research	 to	
develop	 highly	 productive	 software	 that	 is	 already	 well	 appreciated	 by	 our	 customers	 and	 this	 further	
acknowledgement	 is	 a	 brilliant	 reward	 for	 our	 efforts.
Financial	 and	 operating	 highlights
