 5 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s
Statement 
2006 was a challenging, but encouraging year for the Group.
We continued to experience difﬁcult trading conditions in our
markets, however underlying proﬁt before tax increased to
€38.9 million (2005: €37.8 million). Proﬁt before tax was
€10.7 million (2005: €20.1 million).
In 2005, we announced our plans to improve the Group’s
margins. The strategy is focused on four areas: reducing cost;
implementing revenue management to improve price, yield and
utilisation; targeting our most proﬁtable customer groups; and
tight control of ﬂeet. In last year’s Annual Report I referred to the
strategy in terms of Phase 1 and Phase 2, but I will no longer
make that distinction as we continue implementation, with the
phases essentially merging. 
In 2006 we have made another year of progress in implementing
our strategy. In terms of reducing cost, our organisational and
overhead restructuring programme is largely complete and will
ultimately generate some €25 million of annual savings in 2007.
Importantly, through the restructuring, we have introduced new
ways of working to improve our effectiveness as an organisation.
We will continue to strongly focus on costs going forward. 
Other areas, where there is scope to identify further savings
include: further channel shift, beneﬁting from the investment in
websites and other direct marketing initiatives; and insurance
and damage costs.
We have a completely new approach to revenue management,
which is already delivering beneﬁts. A new demand forecasting
system has been developed and implemented throughout the
Group’s major markets. We are now investing in data tools to
assist with the fast implementation of tactical price changes 
and the optimisation of ﬂeet levels. It represents a signiﬁcant
step change in the way the business is managed on a day-to-
day basis.
We continued to target our growth to focus on our more
proﬁtable customer segments and have channelled our 
sales and marketing efforts towards these groups. We have
introduced substantial change to our customer proposition,
implementing customer service initiatives across the network,
all designed to improve speed, transparency and choice. We
have invested in the Avis Preferred speed of service programme
and in a refresh of key rental stations. In November, the Group
launched a signiﬁcantly enhanced website in the UK, which
improves ease of use and is designed to increase the number of
customers that book directly. We will progressively translate and
roll out the new website across the rest of the Group in 2007. 
Finally, the initiatives on yield, utilisation and targeted growth,
outlined above, all support our focus on tight control of ﬂeet. 
In addition, we continue to review the balance between the
corporately owned, agency and licensee elements of the network.
In summary, our strategy is beginning to deliver results, and the
early signs in a number of our businesses are positive. Whilst
we expect the market environment to remain difﬁcult in 2007
and beyond, speciﬁcally with continued pressure on pricing, we
look forward to another year of progress in 2007 as we continue
to focus on implementing the key elements of our strategy.
Murray Hennessy
Chief Executive
Whilst we expect the market
environment to remain difﬁcult 
in 2007 and beyond, speciﬁcally 
with continued pressure on pricing,
we look forward to another year of
progress in 2007 as we continue 
to focus on implementing the 
key elements of our strategy.
