 Avis Europe plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
4
Chairman’s Statement
Results overview 
I am pleased to report another year of progress in implementing
our strategy. The early beneﬁts of the strategy, together with
good volume growth, delivered results ahead of expectations
for the year, despite the continued difﬁcult trading conditions. 
Total revenue was up 4.8% at €1,337 million. Underlying proﬁt
before tax was €38.9 million (2005: €37.8 million), with good
volume growth and improved utilisation performance materially
offset by the impact of weaker pricing and inﬂationary cost
pressures, particularly ﬂeet-related. Underlying earnings per
share were 3.0 euro cents (2005: 3.4 euro cents). 
The net exceptional charge before tax of €28.9 million was largely
due to overhead restructuring costs incurred in connection with
the project that commenced in late 2005. Total proﬁt before 
tax, after also allowing for certain re-measurement items and
economic hedges, was therefore €10.7 million (2005: proﬁt
before tax €20.1 million) and total earnings per share were
0.5 euro cents (2005: 1.5 euro cents).
Dividends
In line with previous statements, the Board has not recommended
payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 in
view of the continued difﬁcult market conditions. The Board’s
current intention remains to recommence the payment of dividends
when the ﬁnancial and trading position of the Group allows.
Outlook
Overall expectations for 2007 remain unchanged. Volume
growth trends are expected to continue at similar levels to 
those achieved in 2006. The current planning assumption 
is that rate will be broadly ﬂat, although at this time, there 
is the usual limited visibility on pricing over the full year.
Fleet costs have risen above general inﬂation, reﬂecting
continuing difﬁcult market conditions. The Group intends 
to mitigate this margin pressure by a further improvement 
in utilisation, driven by the revenue management initiatives,
together with the beneﬁts from the overhead restructuring
programme and the focus on cost reduction initiatives. 
Strategic development
We are making good progress in implementing our strategy, which
comprises: reducing cost; implementing revenue management to
improve price, yield and utilisation; targeting our most proﬁtable
customer groups; and tight control of ﬂeet. A comprehensive
review of the strategic initiatives undertaken during the year 
is set out on pages 10 to 12 of the Business Review. 
However, looking further ahead, the external environment has
been, and is expected to continue to be, more difﬁcult than we
assumed two years ago and no longer supports the guidance
we gave in 2005 regarding margin improvement.
Employees and Directors
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the Group’s
employees for their ongoing commitment, enthusiasm and
professionalism. The quality of our customer service and
strength of our customer relationships will continue to be key 
to our success and are a direct consequence of the quality 
of our people. Once again our employees’ commitment to 
our customers has been reﬂected in the number of industry
awards the Group won in 2006 for outstanding service.
I would also like to welcome Pierre Alain De Smedt to 
the Board as non-executive Director, with effect from 
1 February 2007. His international career in vehicle
manufacturing and related business will be particularly 
valuable and his appointment strengthens the overall 
mix of skills and experience on the Board.
Alun Cathcart
Chairman
The early beneﬁts of the strategy,
together with good volume growth,
delivered results ahead of expectations
for the year, despite the continued
difﬁcult trading conditions. 
