 Versarien plc Annual Report 2014 05
Review of the period Corporate governance Financial statements
More information is available at www.versarien.com
Versarien is an embryonic IP‑ led advanced 
materials group that seeks to utilise 
proprietary technology to create innovative 
new engineering solutions that are capable 
of having a game‑ changing impact in a 
broad variety of industry sectors.
Its IP currently consists of two major strands, 
VersarienCu, a porous copper foam with 
thermal management properties up to ten 
times more efficient than currently available 
products and, since the acquisition of 
2‑ DTech Limited in April 2014, graphene, 
which conducts electricity 100 times better 
than silicon but is transparent, lightweight, 
strong yet flexible and elastic.
Versarien floated on 12 June 2013 and I am 
pleased to provide this, its maiden set of 
annual results. At the year end, the Group 
consisted of the parent company, Versarien 
plc, and two wholly owned subsidiaries, 
Versarien Technologies Limited and Total 
Carbide Limited, the latter being acquired 
at the time of the flotation. On 30 April 2014 
the Group acquired 85% of 2‑ DTech Limited, 
a graphene developer and supplier, and 
completed a share placing raising £5.5 million.
The turnover for the year was £3.0 million 
and the operating loss before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation and non‑ recurring 
items was £250,000. In the current year we 
expect to increase turnover through the 
further commercialisation of the Group’s IP. 
At the same time management will continue 
to maintain careful control of costs.
Since flotation we have completed our 
Executive team by the appointment of 
Mr Chris Leigh as full time Chief Financial 
Officer. Chris is a finance director who has 
both relevant sector knowledge as well as 
AIM‑ listed company experience. 
Key to the Group’s success will be the 
recruitment and retention of further 
qualified and committed senior staff and 
we are grateful to all of our existing staff 
for the valued contribution they have made.
As stated in the AIM Admission document, 
the Board will not be declaring or proposing 
any dividends until such time as the 
commercialisation of its product portfolio 
has generated sufficient distributable 
reserves from which to do so. 
The Board remains optimistic that the 
applications of the technologies that the 
Group is developing will, in time, deliver 
a substantial return on investment for 
Versarien’s shareholders. 
Ian Balchin
Non‑ executive Chairman
21 July 2014
Review of the period/Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
“ In the current 
year we expect to 
increase our turnover 
by commercialising 
the IP we have whilst 
maintaining careful 
control of costs.”
I am delighted to report on the substantial progress Versarien has made 
during the course of 2013/14 combining growth in its core businesses 
with exciting acquisition opportunities.
Application test results continue to be positive and we remain in dialogue with many blue chip companies regarding 
exploitation in application. The addition of 2-DTech™ to our Group creates its own compelling opportunities, as well 
as further enhancing the copper foam potential. We look forward to this year with much optimism.
