 Versarien plc Annual Report 2014 06
Business overview
Versarien Technologies Limited (VTL) holds 
the exclusive rights to a patent‑ protected 
additive process for creating porous copper 
foam, which has multiple potential markets 
with primary focus on electronic equipment 
through the production of highly efficient 
heat exchange materials.
Total Carbide (TC) manufactures sintered 
tungsten carbide primarily for hard‑ wearing 
applications in the oil and gas industry.
2-DTech Limited, acquired in April 2014, 
a spin‑ out from the University of Manchester, 
the birthplace of graphene and home 
to the Nobel prize winning academics 
Geim and Novoselov, specialises in supply 
of graphene products and the transfer of 
fundamental science to applied technology.
Business model
Versarien seeks to capitalise on innovative IP, 
transforming it into commercially viable 
products that can tackle the technological 
challenges faced by modern manufacturers. 
This requires a number of steps:
  a continual deal flow either by establishing 
new licence arrangements with 
research institutions or by identifying 
embryonic companies in early stages 
of development whose intellectual 
property fits with our definition of 
advanced materials technology;
  applying the management team’s 
experience to developing and 
commercialising the advanced 
materials technology;
  providing the plant and equipment to 
get into production either via its existing 
production facilities or by funding new 
facilities; and
  providing working capital facilities either 
from existing reserves, its public listing 
or via banking facilities.
Markets and trends
There are a number of companies that 
provide support and finance to businesses 
seeking to commercialise intellectual 
property or provide finance to spin‑ out 
companies from universities or research 
institutions, but they tend to cover many 
sectors. Versarien concentrates on only 
those opportunities that are in the advanced 
materials and high value manufacturing 
sectors and that outperform conventional 
materials with superior combinations of 
functional properties, such as toughness, 
hardness, durability, elasticity, strength 
or conductivity. 
VersarienCu operates in the global market 
for thermal management technology which 
is set to grow from $8 billion in 2011 to 
$11 billion by the year 2016 and its potential 
applications include aerospace, defence, 
automotive, data communications, renewable 
energy, power distribution, transportation 
and motorsport.
Review of the period/Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
and Strategic report
Predicted market for 
graphene products by 2023
$1.3bn
Global market for thermal 
management by 2016
$11bn Nil Nil
3.0
Revenue (£m)
2012 2013 2014
Versarien plc Annual Report 2014 07
Review of the period Corporate governance Financial statements
More information is available at www.versarien.com
Versarien plc was formed on 25 February 2013 to acquire Versarien 
Technologies Limited in a share‑ for‑ share exchange prior to flotation. 
The comparative figures are unaudited and for illustration only and 
represent the results of that subsidiary.
Review of the period/Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategic report
Our strategy at a glance
To identify and acquire 
disruptive intellectual 
property in advanced 
materials
To establish development 
agreements with 
world‑class organisations
To commence commercial 
production
To deliver attractive share 
price growth for investors
Key performance indicators
Objectives and key 
performance indicators
Our objectives for the current financial year are:
  identify and acquire majority stakes in 
embryonic advanced materials companies;
  identify and acquire licences for thermal 
management materials;
  sign application development agreements 
with customers;
  sign commercial production agreements 
with customers;
  move VersarienCu to break‑ even by the end 
of the financial year; and
  maintain Total Carbide’s operating profit 
return at a minimum of 10% of sales.
0.4
0.1
0.25
LBITDA before 
non-recurring items (£m)
2012 2013 2014
14
5
26
Projects in development
2012 2013 2014
Total Carbide orders received 
(£m)
2012 2013 2014
3.8
4.3
3.5 Versarien plc Annual Report 2014 08 Review of the period/Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategic report
Markets and trends continued
2‑ DTech Limited operates in the graphene 
development market, the total demand for 
which is anticipated to increase from circa 
40 tonnes per annum currently to circa 
400 tonnes by 2017. Forecasts suggest the 
market for graphene products in 2018 will 
be US$195 million growing to US$1.3 billion 
by 2023.
Strategy and results
  To identify and acquire disruptive 
intellectual property in advanced materials 
and within six months have entered 
into joint development agreements with 
potential customers. Versarien floated 
in June 2013 with one technology, 
VersarienCu. It has since acquired the 
graphene related intellectual property 
of 2‑ DTech and is entering into 
collaboration agreements with the 
University of Manchester to identify 
commercial applications. We are in 
discussion with a number of other 
universities regarding licences to 
produce alternative porous metals 
for thermal management systems.
  To establish development agreements 
with world‑class organisations to apply 
acquired IP to specific applications with a 
view to moving into commercial production 
within six months. We have announced 
our first commercial development 
agreement with Thermacore for use 
in isothermalisation devices key in the 
Genomics sector. We are in discussions 
with the other organisations operating 
in the data centre infrastructure market.
  To commence commercial production 
within twelve months of acquiring IP 
rights. We anticipate reaching an 
agreement with Thermacore Europe 
Limited to commence commercial 
production shortly.
  To deliver share price growth for our 
investors based on IP in production, 
the pipeline of development and 
commercialisation opportunities 
and enhancing our IP portfolio.
Financial results
Versarien’s revenue for the year ended 
31 March 2014 totalled £2,953,000 with 
operating losses before non‑ recurring 
items of £444,000. This includes just over 
nine months’ post‑ acquisition sales from 
Total Carbide of £2,948,000 and operating 
profits before non‑ recurring and special 
items of £332,000. Non‑ recurring and 
special costs of £197,000 include £147,000 
relating to the acquisition of Total Carbide 
and £50,000 restructuring costs.
Group net assets at 31 March 2014 were 
£2,599,000 compared with £98,000 for 
VTL at 31 March 2013. The flotation raised 
£3,000,000 less expenses of £581,000, 
net £2,419,000. The agreed consideration 
for the acquisition of Total Carbide was 
£1,580,000 in cash and 5,714,286 in 
Ordinary shares of 1 pence each at the 
flotation price of 12.25 pence per share. 
The vendors agreed to re‑ invest £350,000 
of the cash consideration by taking 2,857,143 
shares in the placing. The total holding of 
8,571,429 shares issued on Admission were 
subsequently sold.
Basic and diluted loss per share totalled 
0.85 pence. The average number of shares 
in issue during the period was 77.1 million.
Post balance sheet events
Subsequent to the year end the Group raised 
£5.5 million before expenses by way of a 
placing on 30 April 2014 and uses invoice 
finance funding for its trading operations. 
Currently the Group has £5 million in 
cash, £0.7 million of headroom on its 
finance facilities.
On 30 April 2014 Versarien acquired 85% of 
the issued share capital of 2D‑ Tech Limited, 
a developer and producer of graphene, for 
a total consideration of £444,000. The Group 
now has three operating subsidiaries and 
has strengthened its organisation structure 
by the appointment of managing directors 
to each unit, two of which are internal 
promotions and one an external recruit.
Versarien Technologies Limited (VTL)
VTL’s revenue for the year was minimal 
as it continues to progress through its 
development cycle. Operating losses before 
non‑ recurring items were £526,000 for the 
year (2013: £404,000).
VTL continues to receive multiple positive 
test results from a number of key customers 
and now has confidence to develop key 
product ranges that will provide the seed 
for supplying modular systems for a variety 
of applications including:
  all‑ electric, hybrid and fuel cell 
automotive;
  industrial automation; and
  electric marine.
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
and Strategic report continued Versarien plc Annual Report 2014 09
Review of the period Corporate governance Financial statements
More information is available at www.versarien.com
Review of the period/Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategic report
It will, in addition, continue to progress 
custom applications and is looking to 
improve customer enquiry response times 
by investing in device test and characterisation 
facilities at its new factory in Mitcheldean. 
Key performance indicators will include the 
number of potential applications undergoing 
test and customer response times.
Total Carbide Limited
It is very pleasing to report that the Total 
Carbide order book continues to strengthen 
and has achieved 11% operating return 
on sales since acquisition. We have also 
successfully introduced an SAP platformed 
Enterprise Resource Planning system, 
which is being used group‑ wide. This was 
necessitated due to the migration of the 
legacy systems withdrawn following the 
sale of the business and it is testament to 
the team effort that this has been achieved 
in short order.
Total Carbide is a long established supplier 
in the oil and gas industry and has a solid 
base of blue chip customers, many of whom 
are now looking to increase their purchasing 
spend as a result of the sales initiatives 
implemented since the Company was acquired 
on 12 June 2013. The Total Carbide team 
has worked hard to build relationships and 
develop these prospects into significant 
orders for the future.
The Board has also successfully exploited 
its existing expertise to secure funding for 
two materials development programmes 
at Total Carbide and it is intended that this 
strategy can be developed further to bring 
new derivatives of tungsten carbide hard 
metals to market.
2D-Tech Limited
Although only acquired post year end, 
I am pleased to report that the company 
has now been integrated into our Group 
systems and that we have appointed 
Nigel Salter, a former divisional technical 
director at Oxford Instruments, to manage 
the business. We are currently examining 
a number of different opportunities for 
commercial production and look forward 
to reporting these in due course. Versarien plc Annual Report 2014 10 Review of the period/Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Versarien’s businesses are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and the Board continually considers how to identify and mitigate 
the key business risks that could impact the Group’s performance. The following risks are those that the Group considers could have the 
most serious adverse effect on its performance and reputation. 
Risk Mitigation
Technological risks Versarien operates in an industry where competitive advantage is heavily dependent on technology. 
It is possible that technological development may reduce the importance of the Group’s function(s) 
in the market or render the patents and licences on which it relies redundant. The Group’s existing 
products may become obsolete or may be superseded by new technologies or changes in customer 
or end‑ user requirements. Versarien continually monitors the market in which it operates and has 
the resources to invest in new technology as appropriate.
Competition risks New competitive products, designs or solutions may enter the market with different benefits or using 
different technologies, making them equally or more attractive than the Group’s current range of 
products. Competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their 
products, designs or solutions than the Group, which would give them a competitive advantage. In order 
to be successful in the future, the Group must continue to respond promptly and effectively to the 
challenges of technological change and competitors’ innovations. If the Group is unable to compete 
successfully with existing or new competitors, it may have to reduce prices on products, which would 
lead to reduced profits.
Intellectual property  
protection risks
Failure to protect the Group’s IP may result in another party copying or otherwise obtaining and using 
its proprietary content and technology without authorisation. There may not be adequate protection for 
IP in every country in which the enlarged Group’s products are or will be made available and policing 
unauthorised use of proprietary information is difficult and expensive. Due to the Group’s size and 
limited cash resources, it may not be able to detect and prevent infringement of its IP. The steps which 
the Group has taken to protect its IP may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of its 
proprietary information or other intellectual property rights. Any misappropriation of the enlarged 
Group’s intellectual property could have a negative impact on its business and operating results. 
Furthermore, the Group may need to take legal action to enforce its IP, to protect trade secrets or to 
determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. In addition, although the Directors 
believe that the Group’s IP does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may 
assert claims that the Group has violated a patent or infringed a particular copyrights, trademark or 
other proprietary right or confidential information belonging to them. Litigation relating to the Group’s 
intellectual property, whether instigated by the Group to protect its rights or arising out of alleged 
infringement of third party rights, whether with or without merit, may result in substantial costs and 
the diversion of resources and management attention and there can be no guarantees as to the 
outcome of any such litigation.
Litigation risks All industries, including the technology industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit. 
The Group may become involved in legal disputes in the future. Defence and settlement costs can 
be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of 
the litigation process, there can be no assurance that the resolution of any particular legal proceeding 
will not have a material effect on the Group’s financial position or results of operations.
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
and Strategic report continued Versarien plc Annual Report 2014 11
Review of the period Corporate governance Financial statements
More information is available at www.versarien.com
Review of the period/Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategic report
Risk Mitigation
Development risk The rate at which the development of the Group’s technology is adopted by potential customers 
is dependent upon the rate at which those customers wish to progress. The Group mitigates this risk 
as far as possible by ensuring that it responds rapidly to technical changes that may be required.
Attraction and retention 
of key employees risks
The Group depends upon the continued service and performance of the Executive Officers and key 
employees and, whilst it has entered into contractual arrangements with these individuals with 
the aim of securing the services of each of them, retention of these services cannot be guaranteed. 
The loss of the services of any of the Executive Officers or other key employees could damage the 
Group’s business. Equally the ability to attract new employees and senior employees with the 
appropriate expertise and skills cannot be guaranteed. The Group may experience difficulties 
in hiring appropriate employees and the failure to do so may have a detrimental effect upon the 
trading performance of the Group. Risk is mitigated by providing share options to key employees 
together with significant opportunities for career advancement.
Future funding risks Whilst the Directors have no current plans for raising additional capital it is possible that the Group 
will need to raise extra capital in the future to develop fully the Company’s business or to take advantage 
of future acquisition opportunities. No assurance can be given that any such additional financing 
will be available or that, if available, it will be available on terms favourable to the Group or to the 
Group’s shareholders.
General economic  
conditions risks
Market conditions, particularly those affecting technology companies, may affect the ultimate value of 
Group’s share price regardless of operating performance. The Group could be affected by unforeseen 
events outside its control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks and political unrest and/or 
government legislation or policy. Market perception of technology companies may change which could 
impact on the value of investors’ holdings and impact on the ability of the Group to raise further funds 
by an issue of further shares. General economic conditions may affect exchange rates, interest rates 
and inflation rates. Movements in these rates will have an impact on the Group’s cost of raising and 
maintaining debt financing.
Commodity prices risks A significant amount of Versarien’s purchases are metallurgical powders. Consequently, exposure to 
movements in underlying commodity prices affects profitability. Where possible we purchase from 
more than one source under medium to long‑ term contracts and manage our stock levels accordingly.
Signed by the order of the Directors
Neill Ricketts
Chief Executive Officer
21 July 2014
