 Cookson Group plc { 10 } Annual Report 2005
“WE HAVE MADE
BETTER PROGRESS
IN IMPLEMENTING
THE STRATEGIC
PLAN IN 2005
THAN I EXPECTED
AT THE OUTSET”
Chief Executive’s Review
Nick Salmon 
Chief Executive
14 March 2006
We have made good progress in 2005 in implementing the
Company’s strategic plan (see page 6). This is borne out by
the Group’s improved profitability and reduced debt and
the achievement of our £100 million disposals target ahead
of schedule.
Since I joined the Group in July 2004 we have appointed
new Chief Executives to head our two largest divisions,
Francois Wanecq in Ceramics and Steve Corbett in Electronics
and a new Group Finance Director, Mike Butterworth. 
I believe we now have in place a strong management team to
deliver continued improvements in 2006 and beyond.
2005 Results
End-market growth for our products and services was
positive overall. Global steel production, the most important
end-market for our Ceramics division, increased 6%, with
falls in Europe and NAFTA more than offset by growth in
Asia-Pacific, most notably China. The Electronics division’s
end-markets were relatively flat in 2005 following a year of
strong growth in 2004, but again we experienced strong
growth in Asia-Pacific, offsetting slight declines in Europe
and NAFTA. Retail jewellery, the end-market for the
Precious Metals division, was weak throughout 2005,
particularly in the UK. This reflected several factors,
including the sharp rise in the cost of gold and generally
weaker retail spending trends.
Against this background, revenue from continuing
operations at £1,481 million was marginally down on 2004
but the product mix improved with lower revenue from
commodity-type activities and growth in several of our
newer, higher technology segments. Trading profit from
continuing operations rose by 14% to £123.5 million.
Headline profit before tax increased by 20% to £102 million.
The retained loss for the year improved from £17 .0 million in
2004 to £7 .6 million in 2005. Net debt at 31 December 2005
was £292 million compared to £322 million at 31 December
2004, having been adversely affected by £26 million of
foreign exchange movements in the year, but benefiting
from the disposal proceeds of £29 million for SCS received
at the year-end. Cookson Group plc { 11 } Annual Report 2005
Divisional Highlights
The Ceramics division has achieved outstanding progress in
2005, with trading profit up 24% over 2004, as a result of
a solid performance from the Steel sector and marked
improvements in the Foundry and Glass sectors. The profit
growth came mainly from increased activity in emerging
markets, particularly China, India and Eastern Europe.
In the Electronics division, the Assembly Materials
sector delivered a 24% improvement in trading profit from
continuing operations on the back of stronger sales in lead-
free solder, a trend we expect to continue into 2006 and
2007 driven by EU legislation banning lead-based consumer
electronics products. The Chemistry sector posted a 3%
decline in trading profit, principally due to our sole
distributor over-ordering the highly profitable copper
damascene product in late 2004 which led to a
corresponding decline in early 2005.
Precious Metals, which represented 17% of Group
revenue, reported trading profit down 35% in the difficult
retail environment described above. Our US operations
were profitable but Europe recorded a small loss, due to
the UK operations, where we are now taking steps to
improve the efficiency of our selling and distribution
activities to restore profitability.
Restructuring
Restructuring charges in 2005 totalled £18.5 million, of
which £5.1 million related to the discontinued Laminates
business and £13.4 million to continuing operations. For the
past few years a significant proportion of our restructuring
charges have related to the turnaround of the Laminates
business (£45 million in the last four years), which was
thereby returned to profitability before its sale.
The main restructuring actions completed in 2005
covered:
Ceramics division:
• The relocation of production capacity from the US to
Mexico;
• The merger of two South African factories to a single
site;
• The closure of a linings factory in Italy;
• The downsizing of a linings factory in Germany; and
• Overhead reduction programmes in the US, the UK
and Continental Europe.
Electronics division:
• The closure of the Laminates operation in Germany
and downsizing in Sweden;
• Overhead reduction in Europe;
• The relocation of production capacity from the US to
Mexico; and
• Workforce reduction in Singapore.
Precious Metals division:
• An 8% reduction in the US workforce and
consolidation into one factory; and
• The completion of the 2004 restructuring plan to
cease manufacturing in France.
Strategic Plan
We have made better progress in implementing the
strategic plan in 2005 than I expected at the outset. The
margin improvements in Ceramics and Electronics have
come from a combination of improved profitability in the
revenue mix and internal cost reduction actions.
The disposals proceeds target of £100 million will be
reached when we receive the proceeds from the Laminates
disposal. The Laminates deal, signed on 15 December 2005, is
subject to approval by the European competition authorities,
which we expect to receive in the first half of 2006.
The sale of the Laminates business has a particular
significance for the Group. Over the past four years,
following the severe downturn in the telecommunications
market in 2001 and the transition of the electronics
manufacturing industry to Asia, the Laminates business has
made cumulative operating losses of £46 million and has
also absorbed significant cash in restructuring costs and
capital investment to expand new and existing facilities –
some £73 million in total. This cash drain is now stemmed by
the disposal. Further, the Laminates business was the
Group’s last sector which sold purely into the electronics
market, hence our cyclical market exposure is much
reduced. In fact, electronics end-markets now represent
only about 20% of Group revenue.
There are one or two further, albeit smaller, potential
business disposals in the pipeline and some further land and
property transactions that we expect to complete in 2006.
The strategic plan involves further restructuring actions
in our continuing operations, beyond those actions listed
above, to reduce costs and adjust production capacities in
mature markets. We therefore anticipate two further years
of restructuring charges at levels similar to 2005.
Outlook
As a ‘just in time’ supplier, our businesses do not have an
order book giving a clear long-term market view. However,
we are close to our customers in all our markets and our
view on the Group’s outlook reflects their views:
Ceramics: The talk of ‘de-stocking’ in the global steel
industry has now subsided and we see the positive
momentum at the end of 2005 continuing into 2006. Steel
output in 2006 is expected to be ahead in Asia-Pacific,
growing at the global level and broadly in line with 2005 in
Europe and NAFTA.
Electronics: Market growth in electronics is expected to
be slightly ahead of GDP, but our automotive markets in
Europe and the US may show some softness.
Precious Metals: Some firming of the US market is
apparent, but Europe remains weak.
Our well-established positions in the fastest-growing,
and most profitable Asia-Pacific region represent a
substantial asset and will be an important factor in our
performance in 2006.
Against a background of these market expectations and
with our continued cost reduction and restructuring
programmes in all divisions, together with a particular focus
on the turnaround of the Precious Metals division, we expect
an improvement in the overall performance of our continuing
operations in 2006. The disposal of the Laminates business
should also improve the quality of our earnings.
 
