 Cookson Group plc 16 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 17 Annual Report 2008
OPERATING REVIEW (CONTINUED)
OUR BUSINESS
Steel Flow Control (continued)
Vesuvius’ main operations in China are 100% owned.
Since 2003, the division has operated a 50/50 joint venture
with Wuhan Iron & Steel Corporation (“WISCO”), China’s fifth
largest steel producer, producing slide-gate refractories. This
operation had revenue of £11 million in 2008. Based on this
success, a further 50/50 joint venture with WISCO was
announced in October 2007 for the production of VISO™, the
division’s range of isostatically-pressed alumina-carbon
products used to control and protect the flow of molten
metal in the enclosed continuous casting steelmaking
process. The joint venture, managed by Cookson, involved
the construction of a new facility in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
The new facility, of which Vesuvius’ share of the investment
was £2 million, became operational in July 2008. Around
half of the production is to be dedicated to supplying VISO™
products to satisfy the anticipated expansion of WISCO’s own
steel-making capacity, with the remainder available to the
Ceramics division to sell to other Chinese steel producers.
Following the acquisition of Foseco, a number of
complementary Steel Flow Control products, notably mould
fluxes (refractory materials used to prevent oxidation of the
molten steel in the tundish and during casting) and ingot hot-
topping systems, have been added to Vesuvius’ existing
range of products and services to further enhance our
offering to steelmakers.
As part of the series of cost-cutting measures noted
above, it is intended that three Steel Flow Control facilities
will be permanently closed in 2009, namely Newmilns in the
UK, Fisher (Illinois) in the US and Emmerich in Germany. The
headcount reduction will total around 320 employees.
Linings
Linings includes products and services that enable our
customers’ industrial furnaces and vessels to withstand the
effects of extreme temperatures or erosive chemical attack.
The business manufactures castables, gunning materials,
ramming mixes, pre-cast shapes, taphole clay, bricks,
mortars, and provides construction and installation services.
Global steel production represents around 70% of the
end-market for Linings products and services with the
remainder arising from a variety of non-steel markets
including the cement, lime, aluminium, petrochemical and
waste incineration industries.
The Linings product line continued its recent good
progress with revenue (at constant currency and as if Foseco
had been acquired with effect from the beginning of 2007)
up 6% to £433 million compared to 2007. Strong underlying
growth of 5% was complemented by the full year contribution
arising from the acquisition of Bayuquan Refractories Co.
Limited (“BRC”) in April 2007, the acquisition of SG Blair in
September 2008 and the integration of the linings
operations of Foseco’s Steel division in April 2008, such that
reported revenue (at reported exchange rates and only
including Foseco from the date of acquisition) of £415 million
was up 20% on 2007. The underlying growth was driven by
the growth in worldwide steel production, good growth in
non-steel markets and the ‘pass through’ of higher raw
material costs. As with the Steel Flow Control product line,
strong growth in the first nine months of the year was
partially offset by a decline in the fourth quarter. Underlying
trading profit (at constant currency and as if Foseco had been
acquired with effect from the beginning of 2007) remained
unchanged compared to 2007, resulting in a return on sales
margin (pre divisional and central cost allocations) for 2008
of 7.4% (2007: 7.8%). The reduction in the return on sales
margin reflects the significant deterioration in trading in the
fourth quarter. This business saw a reasonably significant
increase in raw material costs (which comprise a broad range
of ceramic minerals) in the first nine months of 2008,
although these increases started to abate towards the end
of the year. These additional costs have, to a very significant
extent, been successfully passed through to customers.
Linings has been increasing its capabilities particularly
in emerging markets where it is able to leverage the
expertise gained from its strong presence in the more
established markets in order to capture the expected growth
for these products. In India, the construction of a new facility
producing monolithics, pre-cast linings and taphole clay
became operational at the end of 2007. Following the
acquisition of BRC in China in April 2007, the facility – which
manufactures brick-lining products and had been previously
operating at full capacity – underwent a £1 million expansion
which was completed in the second quarter of 2008.
Foseco’s Steel division had a significant monolithics
business, including a range of complex shaped pre-cast
products (known as the Turbostop™ range) used in
controlling the flow of molten steel in the tundish. These
products are now being sold alongside Vesuvius’ existing
Linings products and services.
As part of the series of cost-cutting measures noted
above, it is intended that two Linings facilities will be
permanently closed in 2009, namely Hautrage in Belgium
and Brownsville (Texas) in the US. The headcount reduction
will total around 80 employees.
SG Blair, a specialist UK-based linings business, was
acquired on 28 September 2008 for a maximum cash
consideration of £0.4 million.
Foundry
The Foundry business is a leading supplier of products,
services and solutions to the foundry industry worldwide.
Products include feeding systems, filters, metal treatments,
metal transfer systems, crucibles, stoppers, sand binders,
coatings and moulding materials.
Vesuvius’ existing Foundry business, which principally
manufactures crucibles, was significantly expanded with the
acquisition of Foseco’s much larger Foundry business in April
2008. As a result, reported revenue for the business grew by
nearly nine times to £350 million. On a pro-forma basis (as if
Foseco had been acquired with effect from the beginning of
2007 and at constant currency), the underlying growth in
revenue was 6%. This growth has been driven by strong
market conditions in the foundry casting market for the first
ten months of 2008 and increased sales penetration, with
particularly good performance in infrastructure and
commodity-related markets such as mining machinery, oil
and gas, railway and heavy transportation, construction
and heavy machinery, and wind power generation. Cookson Group plc 18 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 19 Annual Report 2008
OPERATING REVIEW (CONTINUED)
OUR BUSINESS
The Electronics division is a world leading supplier of advanced surface treatment and plating chemicals
and comprises two product lines; the Assembly Materials product line is a supplier of solder and related
products and the Chemistry product line is a supplier of electro-plating chemicals.
Revenue for 2008 was £620 million, 1% lower at constant exchange rates compared to 2007 (11% higher
at reported exchange rates). Revenue in 2008 reflected the ‘pass through’ to customers in the Assembly
Materials product line of higher metal prices and, excluding both this impact and precious metal sales in
Chemistry, underlying revenue for the division was 9% lower than last year (on a constant currency basis).
The reduction in underlying revenue reflected a significant slowdown in the production of electronic
equipment (the end-market for just under two-thirds of the division’s revenue) in the fourth quarter of 2008
due to a marked ‘de-stocking’ by equipment manufacturers exacerbated by weakening end-user demand.
Electronic equipment production worldwide, which experienced high single digit growth over the last few
years, was broadly unchanged between full year 2008 and 2007, but was down 10% in the fourth quarter
compared to the corresponding period last year. A similar trend was evident for two of the key products
within the consumer electronics market, namely mobile phone handsets and PCs. Mobile phone handset
volumes were up 4% in 2008 compared to prior year, but were 12% down in the fourth quarter of 2008. PC
volumes, including laptops, were up 10% in 2008, but were unchanged in the fourth quarter . The automotive
sector, which represents around 19% of the division’s end-markets, was also very weak in the fourth quarter,
particularly in the US and Europe.
Trading profit of £51.7 million was 22% lower than 2007 at constant exchange rates and 11% lower at
reported exchange rates. The reduction in trading profit reflected the impact of the deterioration in trading
in the fourth quarter of 2008 more than offsetting the full year benefits of a number of restructuring
initiatives enacted in 2007, the successful launch of new products and the continued growth of Assembly
Materials’ reclaim business. In response to the deterioration in trading towards the end of 2008, a number
of cost reduction initiatives were launched including permanent headcount reductions of 70 in the fourth
quarter of 2008 with a further 170 headcount reduction expected in the first quarter of 2009.
Return on sales for the division at reported exchange rates decreased from 10.4% to 8.3% – a reduction
of 2.1 percentage points – due to the reduction in underlying volumes and the impact of higher metal prices.
If metals prices in 2008 had remained at similar levels to those in 2007, the return on sales would have
decreased by only 1.3 percentage points to 9.1%.
Asia-Pacific, the division’s largest region, accounted for 45% of revenue in 2008 (by location of
customer), a higher level than for 2007 reflecting the continuing migration of consumer electronics
production to this region, a trend that has been matched through our investment in capacity in the region
over the last few years.
Electronics
Revenue
£m
Trading Profit
£m
Return on Sales
%
06 07 08
620
558
555
06 07 08
51.7
58.0 58.5
06 07 08
8.3
10.4
10.5
Foundry (continued)
The automotive market (being cars and light trucks), which
globally represents around one-quarter of our foundry
castings market, whilst weak in the US, showed strong
growth in the larger emerging markets of Brazil, India and
China. Trading conditions deteriorated significantly in the last
two months of the year, driven by an unprecedented
reduction in global automotive production, particularly in the
US and Europe. On a pro-forma basis (as calculated above),
the underlying growth in trading profit was 4% and the
Foundry product line now contributes one-third of the
division’s trading profit.
Production of crucibles was transferred from Vesuvius’
Buffalo (New York) facility to an existing facility in Monterrey,
Mexico, with the Buffalo facility closing in the fourth quarter of
2008. The closure will generate cost savings of approximately
£1 million per annum from the beginning of 2009. The new
£5 million crucible facility in Suzhou, Jiangsu Province,
became operational in the third quarter of 2008. This facility
produces long-life, high-performance alumina-graphite
crucibles for the growing non-ferrous foundry market.
Production capacity has been increased during 2008
with the completion of four new facilities in Gliwice, Poland
(feeding systems and coatings), Alrode, South Africa
(coatings), Pune, India (feeding systems) and Gebze, Turkey
(feeding systems and coatings).
To satisfy EU authority requirements, Vesuvius’ Hi-Tech
ceramic filters business was sold on 23 December 2008. This
business contributed £12 million of revenue and £3 million of
trading profit in 2008.
The integration of Vesuvius’ existing crucibles business
into Foseco’s Foundry business, with its much wider range of
products and services, is proceeding well.
As part of the series of cost-cutting measures noted
above, it is intended that the Foundry facility in Tlalnepantla,
Mexico will be permanently closed in 2009. The headcount
reduction will total around 90 employees.
Fused Silica
The principal products in the Fused Silica product line are
Solar Crucibles™ used in the manufacture of photovoltaic
(“solar”) cells and tempering rollers used in the glass
industry.
Underlying revenue grew by 20% to £72 million
compared to 2007, driven by good market conditions in the
solar cell market.
Solar Crucible™ revenue, which represents half of total
Fused Silica revenue, grew strongly by 44% reflecting an
acceleration in the solar energy industry as supply shortages
of the polycrystalline silicon material used in the majority of
solar panels have eased with additional capacity now coming
on stream. This higher level of customer demand has been
met by the increased production capacity that has been put
in place by the division over the last two years.
Underlying revenue growth of 2% in tempering rollers
and other speciality products reflects satisfactory growth in
the glass industry, driven in particular by strong demand
from the construction industry in China in the first nine
months of the year. In order to meet this increased demand,
Vesuvius’ principal glass roller facility in Kua Tang, China
underwent a £1 million capacity expansion, which was
completed in the second quarter of 2008.
Trading profit for the Fused Silica product line has
increased by 39% on 2007 with the strong volume growth
from Solar Crucibles™ more than offsetting the normal ‘one-
off’ production start-up costs arising from the two new Solar
Crucible™ facilities completed in 2008.
To enable Vesuvius to continue to benefit from the good
growth in the solar energy market and maintain its leading
position as a key supplier to the industry, two new Solar
Crucible™ facilities were completed in 2008, with a third
expected to become operational in the second quarter of
2009. In March 2008, the new £6 million facility in Moravia,
Czech Republic became operational and in September 2008
the doubling of capacity of our existing facility in Wei Ting
was completed for an investment of £2 million. A further new
facility (“Sunrise”) located in Jiangsu Province, close to Wei
Ting, has recently been completed for a total investment of
just over £11 million. Following start-up trials, it is expected to
become operational in the second quarter of 2009.
