 Cookson Group plc { 12 } Annual Report 2006
2006 results
The results for 2006 demonstrate the progress achieved so
far in the implementation of the Strategic Plan, through
which we continue to transform the profile of the Group.
Our programme of exiting commodity activities, either by
disposal or closure, while improving our competitiveness
in mature markets and growing strongly in emerging
markets, is resulting in an intrinsically more profitable and
less cyclical mix of continuing operations. End-market growth
for our principal activities has been sound, resulting in good
organic revenue growth. Both our net debt and the pension
deficit have also reduced significantly during the year.
Revenue from continuing operations of £1,590 million
was up 9% on 2005 and trading profit rose 20% to £150
million. Headline profit before tax increased by 30% and
headline earnings per share rose 27% to 46.6 pence. Net debt
at 31 December 2006 was £181 million, down £112 million from
a year earlier due to good cash generation, receipt of disposal
proceeds and some favourable foreign exchange movements.
The worldwide pension deficit also reduced by £70
million to £155 million, which reflects the accelerated
contribution programme in the UK and the freezing of the
main US defined benefit plans.
Divisional highlights
The Ceramics division had another outstanding year, with
trading profit up 22% over 2005 driven by revenue growth
in our high-margin flow control and fused silica product
lines and good progress in our strategy to improve margins
in the linings business.
Global steel production, our main end-market, grew 9%
in 2006. During the year projects were launched to build
additional production facilities in China, Poland and Mexico
and to close two factories in the UK and two in the US, while
making further cost reductions in the global management
structure. Two non-core businesses were disposed of in
2006, Ceramic Fibres and Carbon Blocks and a further two
businesses in early 2007, Monofrax fused-cast refractories
and a small US refractory brick business.
Worldwide demand for electronics remained buoyant,
which supported the Electronics division in delivering an
11% increase in trading profit, with good contributions from
several of our new product lines. In mid-year the closure of
the low-margin Industrial Metals activity in Europe was
completed and, later in the year, two substantial
restructuring projects were launched for completion by the
end of 2007. In the US two Assembly Materials factories will
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“WHILE ALMOST 
ALL OF THE ORIGINAL
TARGETS FROM 
THE JANUARY 2005
STRATEGIC PLAN 
HAVE ALREADY BEEN
ACHIEVED OR
EXCEEDED AHEAD
OF SCHEDULE, THE
TRANSFORMATION
OF THE GROUP IS
NOT COMPLETE.” Cookson Group plc { 13 } Annual Report 2006
be closed with some production relocating to Mexico. In the
Chemistry sector in Europe facilities are being consolidated
by closing factories in Spain and Italy, while expanding
production in Germany and the Netherlands. The buy-out of
the former 49% JV partners in the Chemistry sector’s
China business was completed, now giving the potential for
strong growth in this important market. The non-core
Florida-based PVC Cements business was sold in December.
The Precious Metals division delivered a 41%
improvement in trading profit, with the full year benefit of
the restructuring programmes completed in mid-2005 in
the US and France. Retail jewellery markets showed modest
growth in the US but remained weak in Europe, particularly
in the UK. In response to this we have restructured our UK
selling and distribution network in 2006 and, in January
2007, plans for a fundamental restructuring of UK
manufacturing operations were announced. These will
involve closing the Wrexham facility and downsizing the
Birmingham operations, while transferring some production
to a new facility in Thailand. The US operations continue to
perform well and profitability should be further improved
with the closure of the New Jersey facility and the
relocation of its production to the main Attleboro plant,
which is due to be completed by mid-2007.
Changing Group profile
The programme of disposals, closures, restructuring and
new investments is changing the profile of our activities 
and markets.
Geographically our markets are well-balanced with 
one-third of revenue in NAFTA (which comprises the US,
Canada and Mexico), one-third in Europe and one-third in
emerging markets, mainly Asia-Pacific.
Over the past three years, the total number of
employees in our continuing operations has remained level,
but with significant changes across the regions. In Asia-
Pacific employee numbers have grown 66%. In NAFTA they
have reduced 10% overall, but with an increase in Mexico as
production is relocated from the US. European employee
numbers have reduced 21% overall, but with growth in
Poland and the Czech Republic.
We have exited many commoditised activities and also
the most highly-cyclical, particularly with the sale of the
capital goods business Speedline in 2003 and the Laminates
business in 2006. As a result, the intrinsic cyclicality of the
Group has been greatly reduced and the profitability and
stability of the mix of our activities much improved.
More to go for
While almost all of the original targets from the January
2005 Strategic Plan have already been achieved or
exceeded ahead of schedule, the transformation of the
Group is not complete. In November 2006, an update on the
Strategic Plan with revised targets was announced, which
we discuss more fully on page 7 . Many of the investment and
restructuring plans I mentioned earlier will only produce full
benefits from 2008 onwards and further initiatives are still
to be announced. However, 2007 should be the last year of
high restructuring charges and capital expenditure as the
major transformation projects are completed.
The new targets do not assume any acquisitions, but the
Group now has the financial strength to make acquisitions
should suitable opportunities arise.
Outlook
Our main end-markets, global steel production and
electronics, are forecast to continue to grow ahead of GDP
over the medium-term. Trading over the first two months of
2007 has continued the positive trends from 2006. All
three divisions have detailed plans to deliver strong organic
earnings growth through 2007, 2008 and beyond. However,
the recent weakening of the US dollar, through its
translation impact on our sterling results, would partially
reduce this growth if it were to continue.
Based on these factors we expect to continue to deliver
further improvement in our underlying performance.
Nick Salmon
Chief Executive
13 March 2007
