 I am pleased to report the very considerable progress made
by the Group in 2006. Executive action, taken during the
last two years and centred on our strategic objectives of
profitability improvement and debt reduction, yielded a
strong set of financial results.
Significant restructuring has been undertaken in mature
markets, while investment in new production capacity has
been channelled into emerging markets, with a particular
focus on higher-technology, higher-margin products. The
programme to dispose of non-core businesses is now
essentially complete. Over the past year we completed the
sale of the Laminates and PVC Cements businesses from
the Electronics division and the Ceramic Fibres, Carbon
Blocks, Monofrax fused-cast refractories and US refractory
bricks businesses from the Ceramics division.
Our continuing operations enjoy leading market
positions, offering our customers excellent technology,
quality and service based on a strong local presence in all
our main markets worldwide.
Over the past three years the Group’s risk profile has
significantly improved and our exposure to market
cyclicality much reduced. We supply consumable products,
not capital goods, and our main end-markets of global steel
production and electronics are forecast to grow faster than
GDP over the next few years.
Cookson Group plc { 10 } Annual Report 2006
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“2006 WAS A YEAR OF
EXCELLENT PROGRESS
IN THE EXECUTION OF
THE STRATEGIC PLAN.
THE BOARD IS
CONFIDENT THAT
THE GROUP HAS
CONSIDERABLE
POTENTIAL TO CREATE
FURTHER VALUE FOR
ITS SHAREHOLDERS.” Cookson Group plc { 11 } Annual Report 2006
Profitability
All three divisions delivered good improvements in revenue
and trading profit and the Group’s return on sales from
continuing operations improved by nearly one percentage
point to 9.5%. As a consequence, headline profit before tax
rose 30% to £131 million and headline earnings per share
improved 27% to 46.6 pence.
Debt reduction
The combination of strong free cash flow and proceeds
from our disposal programme resulted in year-end net debt
reducing to £181 million, £112 million lower than a year
earlier. The Group is now in a robust financial condition with
a strong balance sheet.
Pensions
We continue to focus on addressing pension deficits.
The total reported deficit in our defined benefit plans
worldwide reduced by £70 million in the year to £155 million.
The deficit arises principally in our UK (£82 million) and
US (£57 million) plans. As reported last year, we agreed an
accelerated ‘top-up’ contribution schedule with the UK
Trustee. During 2006, with the Group’s support, the Trustee
has also implemented a hedging programme to significantly
reduce the future volatility of the UK deficit arising from
changes in interest rates, inflation and equity market
performance. In the US we have recently frozen the
principal defined benefit schemes and transferred the
active members to defined contribution schemes. For our
UK and US schemes, in calculating the deficit we have
assumed further improvements in life expectancy trends.
All these measures demonstrate our commitment to
actively managing our pension arrangements to reduce
both the size and future volatility of the deficit.
Dividend
Last year we returned to the dividend list with a final
dividend in respect of 2005 of 5 pence paid in June 2006,
the first payment since October 2001. In respect of 2006,
we paid an interim dividend of 3 pence in October 2006 and
we are recommending a final dividend of 7 pence.
Board and corporate governance
After a period of significant change in personnel, the Board
and the Executive Committee have been unchanged since
my 2005 report. I am confident that we have in place a
sound and proven team with the skills, experience and
strength of purpose to deliver further improvements in
performance and shareholder returns.
The Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s
strategy in addition to monitoring performance. Through its
own actions and those of the Board committees, the Board
continues to meet its commitment to high standards of
corporate governance. The Board seeks to implement these
standards in such a manner that they provide real benefit
for shareholders, employees and customers.
Employees
I would again like to offer my sincere thanks to all our
employees worldwide for their contributions to the Group’s
improving performance.
Outlook
2006 was a year of excellent progress in the execution of
the Strategic Plan. The Board is confident that the Group
has considerable potential to create further value for its
shareholders and I look forward to continued progress in
2007 and beyond.
Robert Beeston
Chairman
13 March 2007
