 Cookson Group plc 8 Annual Report 2007
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“2007 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PROGRESS FOR THE GROUP.”
2007 Results
2007 was another year of good progress for the Group, driven
by a continued strong improvement in the Ceramics division’s
performance. Group revenue from continuing operations
increased by 6% and trading profit grew 17% at constant
exchange rates. Headline profit before tax increased by 14%
and strong profit growth in lower tax jurisdictions resulted in a
lower tax charge. As a result, headline earnings per share were
up 17% to 54.3 pence.
Net debt at 31 December 2007 was £51 million (2006:
£181 million), the Company having raised £151 million from
the share placing in October. The worldwide pension deficit
reduced from £155 million to £96 million, reflecting cash
contributions of £45 million and favourable discount rate
movements.
Ceramics division
The division’s underlying revenue increased by 11% to
£781 million. Trading profit increased 25% to £109.4 million
and the return on sales margin for the second half of 2007
reached 14.4%, consistent with the new margin target range
of 14% to 16% announced last August.
Global steel production, our main end-market, grew 8%
in 2007 and our underlying revenue growth exceeded steel
production growth in all regions.
Sales of our market-leading steel flow control products,
used in the enclosed continuous casting process, grew 9%
to £372 million. Linings activity worldwide grew 11% to
£310 million, with particularly strong growth in NAFTA.
Worldwide, the linings margin reached 7.7% (pre divisional
and central cost allocations), up from 5.8% in 2006. Fused
silica revenue grew 23% to £52 million driven by a 50% rise
in sales of Solar Crucibles™, reflecting the continuing strong
growth rates in the worldwide production of photovoltaic (or
“solar”) cells.
Production capacities are being expanded in the higher-
growth products and regions. In 2007, two new Solar
Crucible™ plants were completed, one in Poland and one in
China and work has started on building three more (one in
the Czech Republic and two more in China). Also in 2007
new slide-gate (steel flow control) facilities in Mexico and
Poland were completed, linings production in India and
Mexico was expanded, and a local supplier of linings
products in China was acquired which gives us a base from
which to expand linings operations in Asia. Several further
expansion projects were announced for completion in 2008,
including foundry crucible facilities in China and Mexico and
VISO™ (steel flow control) facilities in China and Europe. Cookson Group plc 9 Annual Report 2007
Electronics division
The division’s trading profit was up 3% to £58.0 million on
underlying revenue 2% lower at £559 million, reflecting mix
changes in product sales, as detailed below. The return on
sales margin of 10.4% was slightly down on 2006 due to the
‘pass through’ of higher metals prices to customers
impacting revenue but not profit. If metals prices had
remained at 2006 levels, the 2007 pro-forma return on
sales margin would have been 11.5%.
The Assembly Materials sector continued to benefit from
growing demand for higher-margin products, particularly
SACX™ (the low silver content lead-free solder) and solder
pastes (both lead-free and lead-based) due to the continuing
shift from wave soldering to surface mount technologies.
Conversely demand for electronic solder bar and wire,
particularly traditional lead-based, is declining. As a
consequence of this change in the mix of activities, trading
profit increased 10% on underlying revenue 6% lower than
2006. The Semi-conductor Packaging Materials business,
which represents 5% of Assembly Materials sector revenue,
experienced difficult market conditions and consequently
made a loss of almost £1 million compared with a profit of
£2 million in 2006, on revenue down 14% for the year.
Progress is being made in the turnaround of this business.
The Chemistry sector saw a continuation of the first half
revenue trends with good growth in plating-on-plastics and
corrosion and wear resistant coating products for the
industrial and automotive markets, but weaker growth in
surface finish products for the electronic printed circuit board
market. Underlying revenue grew 3%, but trading profit was
3% lower , reflecting this change in mix of product sales.
In September 2007, a new Assembly Materials factory in
Mexico was opened and two factories in the US were closed.
A solder reclaim operation in the US was started where our
customers’ waste products and scraps are recycled and,
based on the success of this initiative, planning approvals are
being sought to set up an equivalent operation in China in
2008. In Europe, the intention to relocate solder paste
production from the UK to Hungary by the end of 2008 has
been announced, to reflect the migration of our customer
base in Europe to the East. Construction of the new
Chemistry plant in China has been delayed by over one year
due to more complex permitting requirements than originally
foreseen, but these issues are now close to being resolved.
Precious Metals division
For the full year, net sales value was 1% lower than 2006
and trading profit was down 2% (both at constant exchange
rates), which represented a reasonably encouraging second
half performance after the weak first half results and the
continuing weak retail environment in both North America
and Europe.
Results from the European operations benefited from
the restructuring undertaken in the UK in the first half of
the year and the move of some production to a new low
labour cost facility in Thailand which started up in August. A
similar move is being made in the US operations through
the creation of a low labour cost facility in the Dominican
Republic, where we will transfer the equivalent of 200 jobs
from our Attleboro (Massachusetts) facility during 2008.
In September 2007, the assets, designs and customer
lists of a local competitor in the US, Leach & Garner, were
acquired for US$7 million. Over the first half of 2008,
production of the acquired product ranges will be
transferred into our Attleboro and Dominican Republic
facilities. This should increase our net sales value in the US
and help offset the decline in the US market. Not-
withstanding this, in response to the current weak retail
environment in the US, we implemented 60 redundancies at
Attleboro in February 2008.
Foseco acquisition
Following the recent anti-trust clearances by the EU and US
competition authorities and the approval of the transaction
by Foseco’s shareholders, the approval by Cookson’s
shareholders at today’s EGM and Court approval of the
scheme of arrangement are now awaited. This should lead
to the transaction being completed on 4 April 2008. The
synergy expectations from combining Foseco with our
Ceramics operations, which were announced last October,
are reconfirmed. The Board remains convinced of the clear
strategic rationale for this acquisition and that it will deliver
attractive financial returns.
Outlook
The positive end-market trends experienced by Ceramics
over the second half of last year have continued and we are
increasing production capacities in the higher-growth
products and regions. The Ceramics division will be further
enhanced by the acquisition of Foseco which is expected to
complete next month. In Electronics, some slowing of
growth rates is expected for consumer electronics, but we
have been implementing efficiency improvements to offset
this. Precious Metals faces a weak retail environment, but its
performance should be helped by recent and ongoing
significant cost base reductions.
We therefore anticipate a continuing strong performance
in 2008.
Nick Salmon
Chief Executive
11 March 2008
OUR BUSINESS
