 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 COOKSON GROUP PLC 08
 cooksongroup.annualreport2009.com
ROBERT BEESTON
“While the rate of recovery in our end-markets 
is difficult to predict and will vary by region, 
I am confident that we will deliver a much improved 
performance in 2010.”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
  The speed, severity and simultaneous nature of the collapse in all of 
our end-markets in the last quarter of 2008 was unprecedented. The 
impact of the weakening global economy was amplified by a destocking 
of inventories throughout the supply chains in which we operate. As a 
consequence, by the first quarter of 2009 underlying revenue in almost 
all our businesses was down around one-third compared to prior year . 
Prompt and decisive action was taken through the last quarter of 
2008 and the first half of 2009 to reduce our cost base substantially, 
conserve cash and reduce net debt. The timeliness and effectiveness 
of these measures was illustrated by the fact that, even with the 
drastically reduced revenue in the first quarter of 2009, we remained 
at break-even at the trading profit level. Net debt, which stood at 
£  731m at the start of 2009, was reduced to £371m by year-end. End-
markets and therefore revenue remained very weak throughout 
the first half of the year but showed some improvement through 
the second half. Trading profit improved from only £16.5m for the 
first half to £95.2m in the second half, reflecting both the pick-up in 
revenue and the success of the cost reduction measures.
STRONG STAKEHOLDER SUPPORT
Our success in navigating through these very difficult conditions 
was in no small part due to the strong support we enjoyed from our 
main stakeholders. Our shareholders approved and financed the 
rights issue announced in January 2009 which raised £241m, net of 
expenses. This was the main contributory factor in reducing net debt 
early in the year. Our syndicate of 16 banks, which provide our main 
borrowing facilities, remained fully supportive throughout the year. 
The UK pension fund Trustee was very helpful in agreeing to suspend 
cash top-up payments from early 2009 until mid 2010.
Employees thoughout the Group have made an exceptional 
contribution, successfully managing many extremely difficult issues 
including a major redundancy programme, which reduced worldwide 
headcount by almost 20%, and short-time working hours in many 
countries. Importantly, they delivered this whilst continuing to meet 
customers’ requirements and tightly controlling working capital.
I regret that large scale job losses were unavoidable in the prevailing 
circumstances, and I would like to offer my sincere thanks to our 
employees, and indeed all our stakeholders, for giving such strong 
support at a very challenging time.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
While I believe we performed well in the prevailing circumstances, 
our financial results were inevitably significantly worse than those 
for 2008. Headline profit before tax was down 57% to £75.7m and 
headline earnings per share were down 80% to 18.0 pence. We 
incurred substantial exceptional restructuring costs (£75.6m) in 
implementing the cost reduction plan. Overall, we reported a loss for 
the year of £44.7m.
DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY
No interim dividend was paid during the year and the Board is not 
recommending a final dividend payment in respect of 2009. A decision 
to resume dividend payments will be made once we can see a sustained 
recovery in our end-markets and trading performance, and in the 
context of the Group’s indebtedness and cash requirements at that time.
BOARD AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s strategy and 
monitoring its performance. The Board and the Board committees 
are committed to complying with the highest standards of corporate 
governance and closely monitor new developments and requirements 
in this area.
In February 2010 we announced the appointment of two additional 
members of the Board: Peter Hill as a non-executive Director and 
Francois Wanecq, the current Chief Executive of our Ceramics division, 
as an executive Director . Their appointments further broaden the skills 
and experience available to an already strong Board and I believe we 
have a high quality team in place to guide the Group as we rebuild 
performance following the impact of the global economic crisis.
OUTLOOK
While the rate of recovery in our end-markets is difficult to predict 
and will vary by region, I am confident that we will deliver a much 
improved performance in 2010. We have leading market positions 
supplying products and services to essential industries,   a well 
balanced global market presence with significant exposure to higher 
growth emerging markets, and a much reduced cost base. Our 
profitability should therefore continue to recover significantly as 
end-markets improve.
2 March 2010
