 Cookson Group plc 6 Annual Report 2007
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“THE PAST YEAR HAS WITNESSED THE COMMENCEMENT OF A NEW PHASE
IN THE GROUP’S EVOLUTION, ONE OF INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH.”
I am pleased to report another year of excellent progress
for the Group in 2007. This reflects the successful
implementation of a clear strategic plan for our business,
first announced in January 2005 and updated in November
2006, when new and more stretching performance targets
were introduced. The achievement of these targets required
extensive restructuring and rationalisation in mature
markets whilst expanding our presence in emerging
markets and lower cost production areas of the world.
Additionally, our poorest performing and most cyclical
businesses have been divested, generating funds for re-
investment in more profitable activities.
The past year has witnessed the commencement of
a new phase in the Group’s evolution, one of investment
for growth. Growth will be achieved through acquisition
where there is a clear and compelling industrial and
financial rationale with significant benefits for Cookson’s
shareholders and our other stakeholders. Organic growth
will result from investment in new manufacturing facilities
and further capacity expansion to meet demand in high-
growth markets where we enjoy leading positions.
Proposed acquisition of Foseco
On 11 October 2007, after several months of negotiations
and due diligence activity, we announced that the boards of
Cookson and Foseco had agreed terms for a recommended
offer for Cookson to acquire Foseco for just over £600 million
in cash and assumed debt. On the same day, we raised
£151 million through an over-subscribed share placement
and announced new bank facilities totalling £950 million to
fund the acquisition and refinance the enlarged group. We
have recently received approval for the transaction from
the competition authorities in the US and Europe and,
subject to shareholder approval at our Extraordinary
General Meeting on 11 March 2008, expect to complete the
acquisition on 4 April 2008.
Foseco reported revenue of £409 million and a trading
profit of £46 million in 2006. It is a leading supplier of
consumable products worldwide for use in the foundry and
steel-making industries and its activities are highly
complementary to those of our Ceramics division. On
22 February 2008, Foseco announced that it had recorded
another strong performance in 2007 , with full year revenue of
£431 million, an increase of 8% at constant exchange rates. Cookson Group plc 7 Annual Report 2007
The combination of these businesses will provide
opportunities to enhance the growth of both while at the
same time providing customers in foundry and steel
production markets with an excellent range of value-added
products and services. We expect the integration of these
two businesses to generate significant synergies through
the ability to cross-sell each business’ products and
services, the elimination of duplicate overhead costs and
increased purchasing efficiencies. Hence we anticipate
attractive returns and earnings per share enhancement
from this transaction.
This acquisition is expected to meet in full the financial
return parameters we have set for ourselves in our strategic
plan.
Organic growth
During 2007, the Ceramics division completed several new
production facilities in Mexico, Poland and China
representing an investment of almost £20 million. We also
announced plans to invest over £40 million in several
further capacity expansion projects in Ceramics to be
completed in 2008. In particular, we are adding significant
additional capacity to meet demand for our market-leading
Solar Crucible™ product line where the worldwide market is
currently growing at over 25% per year.
The Electronics division also announced plans for a
£9 million investment in a new Chemistry factory in China
where we hope to commence construction shortly for
completion next year.
Lastly, the Precious Metals division, on a smaller scale,
started production from a new low labour cost facility in
Thailand in August 2007 and has just completed a similar
facility in the Dominican Republic.
All these investments are forecast to deliver attractive
economic returns and should enable us to deliver further
profitable growth through 2008, 2009 and beyond.
Profitability
The Group’s results for 2007 also show strong progress with
trading profit from continuing operations (at constant
exchange rates) up 17% and return on sales margins up a
full one percentage point to 10.5%. Headline profit before
tax increased 14% to £149.6 million and headline earnings
per share improved 17% to 54.3 pence.
Dividend
In October, we paid an interim dividend of 4.25 pence in
respect of 2007 (interim 2006: 3.00 pence). We are
recommending a final dividend of 8.75 pence for 2007 to
give a total dividend in respect of 2007 of 13.00 pence
(2006: 10.00 pence).
Financial strength
Over the past few years we have substantially reduced
Group debt through disposal proceeds and cash generation
from operations. At the same time the Group’s pension
deficit has been significantly reduced via accelerated top-up
payments into the UK pension plan, which have more than
offset the effect of adopting longer life expectancy
assumptions in the calculation of the pension liabilities.
Hence, even before we raised the proceeds from the
£151 million share placement in October, the Group had a
strong, investment grade balance sheet.
Financing the forthcoming acquisition of Foseco via a
combination of debt and equity ensures that we should
maintain strong, investment grade balance sheet ratios
going forward.
Board and corporate governance
The Board and Executive Committee have remained
unchanged since my last report. I am confident that we have
an excellent team in place with the right blend of skills and
experience to deliver continuing improvements in
performance and to promote the success of the Company
for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
The Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s
strategy and monitoring performance. Through its own
actions and those of the Board committees, the Board
continues to meet its commitment to the highest standards
of corporate governance.
Employees
As in previous years, I would like to offer my sincere thanks
to all of our employees worldwide for their contributions to
the Group’s success. This year I would also like to extend a
warm welcome to the approximately 3,000 new employees
who should be joining us shortly from Foseco.
Outlook
Given the excellent progress achieved in the execution of
our strategy, I am confident that the Group is in robust
shape to face the future. I look forward to continued
progress, particularly with the exciting opportunities
presented by the Foseco acquisition.
Robert Beeston
Chairman
11 March 2008
OUR BUSINESS
