 Cookson Group plc { 8 } Annual Report 2005
Robert Beeston 
Chairman
14 March 2006
“THE STRATEGY SET OUT AT THE START
OF 2005 IS CLEARLY YIELDING RESULTS.”
“NOTWITHSTANDING 
THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF
2005, THE BOARD IS
CONVINCED THAT THERE
IS CONSIDERABLY MORE
PROGRESS TO BE MADE.”
Chairman’s Statement
2005 was a year during which the new executive
management team achieved very encouraging progress
towards our strategic and operational goals.
In January 2005 we set out a new and challenging
strategic plan, together with a related set of objectives,
running through to 2007. These objectives centre around
profitability improvement and debt reduction, in part
through non-core business disposals.
Throughout the year we remained resolutely focused on
implementing this strategy and I am pleased with the
progress we have achieved.
  Cookson Group plc { 9 } Annual Report 2005
Capital structure and corporate governance
In May 2005, shareholders approved a ten-for-one share
consolidation which  has, as intended, reduced the volatility
in the share price, enabling a more consistent valuation for
the Company.
The process of de-registering from the US Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”), approved by shareholders in
January 2006, has now been effected, such that we are no
longer required to comply with the SEC’s reporting
obligations, thereby avoiding over £1 million in annual
compliance costs. We, of course, remain committed to the
highest standards of corporate governance and transparent
reporting, as required under the UK Listing requirements.
Board changes
In June 2005, Jeff Hewitt joined the Board as non-executive
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee; and Mike
Butterworth joined the Board as Group Finance Director,
succeeding Dennis Millard who had held the role since 1996.
In October, Francois Wanecq joined the Executive
Committee and assumed the role of Chief Executive of the
Ceramics division, succeeding Gian Carlo Cozzani who has
retired from the Board. I would like to thank both Dennis and
Gian Carlo for their significant contribution to Cookson over
many years.
These appointments conclude a major transformation of
our executive management and Board since I was appointed
as Chairman in 2003. I am confident we have a Board and
executive management team with the experience, skills and
strength of purpose to drive our Company forward.
I would also like to offer my sincere thanks to our 13,500
employees worldwide for their hard work and dedication in
delivering our improving performance.
The strategy set out at the start of 2005 is clearly
yielding results. Notwithstanding the achievements of
2005, the Board is convinced that there is considerably
more progress to be made.
Profitability
Our two largest divisions, Ceramics and Electronics which
together represented 83% of Group revenue, achieved
return on sales from continuing operations of 9.9% and
10.5% respectively, either close to or matching the 10.5%
targets, restated under IFRS, which we set for 2007.
The Precious Metals division continued to experience
weak market conditions during 2005, particularly in Europe.
Our US operations achieved a return on net sales value of
13.2% versus our 2007 target of 15%, having benefited from
the restructuring actions undertaken in the first half of
2005. However, the division’s European operations have
been marginally loss-making and the turnaround of this
situation is a clear priority for 2006.
Charges of £18.5 million incurred for restructuring
across the whole Group are expected to yield rapid payback,
as operational costs reduce. At the same time the
opportunity for future organic growth has been enhanced
by expanding capacity in high-growth emerging markets,
especially in our higher technology products and services.
The benefits of this progress show through in the
Group’s results for 2005. On marginally reduced revenue,
trading profit from continuing operations of £123.5 million
was up 14% over 2004. Headline earnings per share
improved 24% to 37.2p, cash flow was satisfactory and
year-end net debt stood at £292 million, down £30 million
compared to 2004. We expect further improvements in our
continuing operations in 2006 as we continue to implement
our performance enhancement strategy.
Debt reduction
In December 2005 we signed agreements to sell our
Laminates and Speciality Coatings businesses which,
together with earlier transactions, will take the total
proceeds from disposals above the £100 million target
originally set to be achieved before the end of 2006.
Dividend
Given the good progress achieved in implementing the
strategy and the much improved underlying performance
of the Group in terms of earnings and cash flow, the Board
is satisfied that the criteria set out in the strategic plan for
the resumption of dividend payments have been met.
Accordingly the Board is recommending a final dividend in
respect of 2005 of 5p per ordinary share.
Pensions
The total reported deficit in our defined benefit plans
worldwide increased in the year from £190 million to £225
million. This arose mainly as a result of a reduction in global
discount rates and an underlying improvement in
the assumed life expectancy used in the actuarial calculation
of the deficit, which offset the improved performance of
equity investments in the plans. The largest part of the
deficit resides in our UK plan (£117 million). We have a very
constructive relationship with the Trustee and have recently
agreed an accelerated “top-up” payment schedule to bring
forward the elimination of the pension deficit.
 
