 Revenue
£1.444bn
Trading profit
£142.8m
Chief Executive’s strategic overview
“  During 2014 we delivered further 
margin improvement, underlying 
revenue growth substantially ahead 
of our end markets, and completed 
the first acquisitions in pursuit of 
our strategy to build a substantial 
technical services business. ”
1,932kg 3.9MWh
a verage c O
2
 
reduction*
a verage energy 
saving*
50%
a verage increase 
in refractory life
* Over seven-year lifespan of panels
François Wanecq Chief Executive
Improved uptime, productivity 
and energy consumption in 
aluminium melting
Value creating solutions
Our solution 
Using a novel installation and 
application technology, our 
technicians were able to recommend 
changes to the existing furnace 
design and refractory system. 
By incorporating products from 
the Alugard
†
 suite of monolithic 
refractories, the customer’s 
aluminium team was able to  
increase refractory performance  
and change their scheduled 
maintenance practices. 
The challenge 
A team from our Advanced 
Refractories division was asked to 
improve aluminium furnace uptime 
and productivity at a high output 
production facility in the US. 
A critical target for the project was 
to reduce the energy consumed 
in delivering the operational 
requirement of holding the 
aluminium alloy at 700ºC for  
24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Introduction
In 2014 Vesuvius continued to progress in 
line with its objectives and strategy. We have 
restored our margins despite a mixed market 
environment, built on our strong base in Asia, 
invested in new Research & Development 
centres and proceeded with acquisitions to 
build our new offering in Technical Services 
for the steel and foundry industries.
With the ongoing development of innovative 
solutions that create value for our customers, 
we are confident that we will continue to 
grow and deliver increasing value to our 
shareholders.
Performance overview
Vesuvius reported global sales in 2014 of 
£1,444m, down 4.4% on 2013 due to the 
significant strengthening of sterling against 
most of our major trading currencies (2013: 
£1,51 1m) and the effects of disposals in 2013. 
At constant exchange rates and adjusted 
for the effects of acquisitions and disposals, 
underlying revenue was ahead of 2013 
by 3.5%, and, significantly, ahead of the 
underlying growth in our markets. Similarly, 
reported headline trading profit in 2014 was 
£142.8m (2013: £140m), an increase of 1 1.6% 
over the previous year on an underlying basis. 
Our revenue expansion was helped by the 
acquisitions we completed in the second half 
of 2014, as we implemented our strategy to 
build a Technical Services offering for the steel 
and foundry industries. The two acquisitions 
contributed an aggregate £3.6m of sales and 
£0.5m of trading profit in 2014.
  Read more about Our performance on p26-41 
Our markets
Aggregate world steel production increased 
by 1. 1 % in 2014. Contrary to the trend of the 
last decade, growth in China was lower than 
in the rest of the world, at 0.9%. Production 
in the European Union countries recovered 
somewhat, increasing 1.8%, along with 
North America, up 2.0%. South Korea  
and Middle Eastern countries showed the 
highest growth. 
The foundry market environment was 
mixed. The continued decline of metal and 
commodities prices resulted in a slowdown 
in the mining industry, which negatively 
impacted the activity of the steel foundries in 
South Africa, Australia, Indonesia and North 
America. Conversely, the car industry enjoyed 
a good recovery in Europe after a very poor 
year in 2013, and experienced a record 
year in NAFTA. The truck market remained 
disappointing globally. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 12 More generally, the engineering sector was 
sluggish with industrial investment remaining 
at a low level as a result of the general under-
utilisation of production capacity and the 
slowdown of Chinese industrial growth. 
  Read more about our market in our  
Operating Reviews on p34-41
Our strategy
The strategy we developed since launching 
Vesuvius on the market is articulated around 
five pillars designed to ensure long-term 
revenue growth, improved profitability and 
sustained cash generation.
Reinforce our technology leadership 
Vesuvius was built and grew on technology 
breakthroughs that enabled the steel 
continuous casting and foundry industries  
to substantially improve their efficiency.  
Our technology leadership drives our unique 
value proposition and underpins our ability 
to deliver this value enhancement to our 
customers. In terms of percentage of revenue, 
we invest twice as much in R&D as our  
main competitors. 
The benefits 
Use of Alugard
†
 insulating panels in a 
600 kg aluminium furnace has been 
shown to save up to 1,932 kg CO
2
 
and 3.9 MWh over the seven-year 
lifetime of the panels. Additionally, 
our fully engineered custom designed 
solution significantly enhanced 
secondary aluminium operations. 
Specifically our services resulted in an 
increase of 50% in refractory life in 
the most erosive area of the furnace, 
with associated improvements in the 
productivity of the melting furnace, 
and reduction in the frequency 
of planned furnace outages for 
refractory repairs.
Increase penetration of value-creating 
solutions Our technology has been widely 
adopted by the most sophisticated producers 
in the most developed markets. However, 
there are still substantial differences in the 
penetration of our solutions within the 
industry and consequently there is a wider 
audience of customers who we believe 
can benefit from them. As steel producers 
and foundry businesses grow in new areas, 
they will require higher levels of quality and 
performance, and we will dedicate our 
technical marketing efforts to help these 
customers develop. See case study below 
c apture growth in developing markets 
Building on our long lasting presence in all 
markets, we can leverage the high growth 
enjoyed by our customers’ industries in 
the emerging countries, which are large 
consumers of steel goods and foundry 
castings. Consequently, a majority of our 
investment is focused on capacity expansion 
in these new territories in line with our 
business model to produce at close proximity 
to our customers’ sites.
Improve cost leadership and margins 
Our supply chain efficiency is the assurance 
that we deliver products and services to our 
customers at the right price while maintaining 
our margins. We apply the principles of 
lean manufacturing across all our sites 
to continuously improve our quality and 
productivity. In addition, our global presence 
and leadership allow us to benefit from a high 
volume effect, and deliver excellent service 
from local sites.
Build a technical services offering Our 
customers’ processes require increasing 
levels of engineering services to reach the 
demanding levels of safety, accuracy and 
consistency required by their end-customers’ 
quality specifications. Grounded in our deep 
understanding of customer processes, we 
are building a new activity within Vesuvius 
to offer a comprehensive set of technical 
services that will enhance process control 
and monitoring at our customers’ sites, 
thus improving quality and lowering total 
production costs.
†  Trademark(s) of Vesuvius plc registered in  
certain countries.
13
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
Progress against our strategy
In 2014 we achieved considerable progress 
in the implementation of our strategy with 
the commissioning of a brand new plant 
for Foundry products in Changshu (China), 
the opening of a new global research centre 
for Foundry in Enschede (Netherlands), the 
commissioning of new capacity for Steel Flow 
Control in the Czech Republic and Brazil, and 
the ramp up of our new plant for Advanced 
Refractories in the United Arab Emirates.
Moreover we have started to build our 
Technical Services offering with the 
acquisition of two companies focusing 
on data capture for the steel and foundry 
industries: ECIL Met Tec in Brazil and Process 
Metrix in California, USA.
Last year was also the first industrial 
installation of our robotic tube-changing 
system for continuous casting in Hyundai 
Korea and the conclusion of additional 
contracts for similar equipment elsewhere.  
See case study right  
You will see in the various case studies set 
out in this Strategic report, clear examples of 
how we deliver this strategy across markets, 
geographies and business units. 
The challenge  
We have been working in partnership with 
Hyundai Steel to achieve consistent operational 
practices, improve final steel quality, and 
enhance plant safety by removing the need  
for steel plant operational personnel in the 
exposed areas of the caster and ladle platform. 
Our solution  
Vesuvius introduced the latest generation of 
tube changers (the SEM3085™), and a fully 
automated robotic system to manage refractory 
tube insertion and removal during the casting 
process. The success of this project has led 
Hyundai to entrust Vesuvius with three new 
ladle platform projects that incorporate  
robotic solutions.
The benefits 
An improved sealing between ladle and tundish 
reduces nitrogen pickup and limits the delay to 
less than 15 seconds in cases where an oxygen 
lancing operation is required to open the ladle. 
Similar installations are now also scheduled 
for customers in Europe, North America and 
South Africa. Such competitive advantage is 
being steadily enhanced through the strategic 
acquisition of companies with complementary 
product ranges, particularly in the areas of 
sensors, instrumentation and automation,  
as well as R&D that expands Vesuvius’  
capabilities through product development  
and multi-technology offerings.
Technology partnership with  
Hyundai to improve safety,  
quality and productivity
Progress against strategy
Number of robotic tube 
changes
2,000
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 14 Our businesses
Steel Flow c ontrol The Steel Flow Control 
product line performed well in 2014 despite 
sluggish end-market conditions. Aggregate 
world steel production grew by 1. 1 %, 
nearly half the growth rate of the previous 
year. This was partly due to a significant 
slowdown in Chinese growth to below the 
levels experienced across the rest of the 
world. Indeed this may be a signal of some 
acceleration in the ongoing transformation 
of the Chinese economy from an investment 
driven growth economy towards one that is 
consumer driven. Such transformation will 
induce a shift in steel quality demand, from 
the less sophisticated long products used for 
construction towards the high quality flat 
products used in consumer goods and the car 
industry. This flat steel segment is the largest 
customer for our high technology products 
and solutions and this development should 
support a growing demand for our Steel 
Flow Control products and our developing 
Technical Services offering. At the same 
time the relative steadiness of the developed 
markets has contributed to our results due to 
our very strong positions in these countries.
Overall, the value of sales from our Steel 
Flow Control product line grew by 4.3% in 
2014 on an underlying basis, substantially 
out-performing the 1. 1 % increase in world 
steel production tonnage. This includes 
the successful progression of our recent 
acquisition Metallurgica, which sells fluxes for 
the continuous casting of steel, and which 
during 2014 improved its market penetration 
and profitability. 
  Read more about Steel Flow Control on p35-37 
a dvanced Refractories Advanced 
Refractories has been focusing on the 
recovery of its margin rate by concentrating 
its product range on a smaller number of 
products and solutions that offer a real value 
difference to our customers. After the sale 
of our non-core lower margin Canadian 
construction and German brick businesses  
in 2013, the perimeter of activity is now 
focused on core products. Nevertheless,  
even after correction for the effect of 
disposals, and foreign exchange translation 
effects, Advanced Refractories sales  
increased by 4.5% in 2014 compared to 
2013. The particular emphasis given to the 
higher margin lines such as precast, taphole 
clay and Mag-Carbon bricks contributed to 
the improvement of our Group margin rate 
by 215 basis points on an underlying basis 
in 2014.
  Read more about Advanced Refractories  
on p37-38 
Foundry division Our Foundry division was 
impacted by local political and economic 
instability in countries where we traditionally 
enjoyed good volumes and margins, such 
as Ukraine, Thailand and Brazil. At the same 
time, the decline of metal and commodity 
prices reduced levels of investment in the 
mining industry with negative consequences 
for those of our customers active in this 
segment. In addition, the start-up of our  
new Chinese plant at Changshu took longer 
than expected. As a consequence, our  
overall sales and margins were affected. 
Measures were taken during the year to 
restore profitability in Brazil and Ukraine, 
while in Thailand some of the effects of 
the instability corrected themselves. During 
the year, we dedicated significant effort to 
enhancing technology development and 
innovation in this division, coupled with the 
appointment of new management. 
  Read more about our Foundry  
division on p39-41 
Innovation as our foundation
Vesuvius has a proud heritage of bringing 
innovation to the markets we serve. Our 
developments in VISO™ isostatic pressing 
technology and in sliding gate systems were 
key enablers of the continuous casting process 
now deployed throughout the whole of the 
steel industry. Our innovations in molten 
metal filtration and casting feeding systems 
have been used extensively to improve the 
quality of cast product in the foundry market. 
Maintaining that technology leadership is a 
central objective of our strategy, and the spirit 
of innovation is at the core of all our activities.
Turning innovation into results Innovation 
is all about translating an idea into a 
commercial reality. In 2014, we increased our 
spending on R&D by 2.8% over the previous 
year, on a constant currency basis to £26. 1m, 
representing 1.8% of sales. We currently 
have over 160 patent families, and 1,750 
patents granted worldwide, with 640 patent 
applications pending. In 2014 we estimate 
that 8% of our revenues came from products 
launched within the past five years. This is our 
first year analysing this revenue as an internal 
innovation benchmark, and our goal is to 
double this over the next five years.
Delivering solutions The innovation 
process at Vesuvius begins with an intimate 
knowledge of our customers’ processes 
and needs. Vesuvius solutions and products 
can greatly influence the quality of our 
customers’ products and the efficiency of 
their processes, and all our new products and 
solutions are developed with value creation 
for our customers in mind. We have more 
than 200 technical experts supported by 
local development teams on all continents to 
ensure we meet our customers’ needs. These 
local development laboratories play a lead role 
in customising products for customers, and 
qualifying new sources of key raw materials. 
15
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
Global Research & Development centres
Site Country
Barlborough UK
Bettsville USA
Enschede Netherlands
Feignies France
Ghlin Belgium
Pittsburgh USA
Our solution 
A recent development by Vesuvius 
of the Accuoptix™ sensor integrates 
a long-life optical detector, with 
an advanced electronic interface, 
to provide stable and accurate 
temperature signals over time. 
The optical detector replaces the 
traditional expensive and fragile 
Platinum-Rhodium thermocouples 
used in the current generation 
of continuous temperature 
measurement systems.
The challenge 
In order to control continuous casting 
operations, it is essential to know 
the temperature of the liquid steel 
in the tundish at all times during the 
sequence. The existing technology 
is based on one-time use probes or 
costly and fragile continuous devices.
>99%
Lifetime
c ontinuity of 
temperature 
measurement*
Reliability 
guarantee
>15%
a verage reduction 
in cost*
*versus Accumetrix
®
 Platinum-Rhodium systems
£26.1 m
R&D spend in 2014
Critical innovation 
in temperature 
measurement for 
continuous casting 
of steel
Product innovation
Several of our local development laboratories 
are equipped with facilities for physical 
and computational fluid dynamics studies, 
together with capabilities allowing our 
experienced scientists and engineers to 
analyse the complex interactions between 
refractory materials and molten metals 
existing in our customers’ operations. 
These laboratories work hand-in-hand with 
our global network of 16 research centres to 
stay constantly updated with information on  
the latest technological developments.
Next generation product development 
Our 16 research centres focus on 
development of the next generation of 
products and technologies in partnership  
with strategic customers and leading 
universities. These laboratories are staffed 
with scientists and engineers possessing 
advanced degrees in various disciplines 
and are equipped with highly specialised 
equipment. See case study below 
We regularly conduct customer seminars and 
training sessions, to ensure that the full range 
of Vesuvius products and solutions are known 
and properly used. 
New global innovation hub In December, 
we opened our new Global Foundry R&D 
Centre in Enschede, Netherlands. This facility 
will play a central role in strengthening the 
technology leadership position of our Foundry 
business. The centre is equipped with the 
latest technologies for process simulation and 
modelling, advanced analytical capabilities, 
and pilot scale foundry processes for iron, 
steel, and aluminium processing. These 
capabilities will bring the Foundry R&D 
team closer to our customers, as we will be 
better able to simulate their processes and 
demonstrate the uniqueness of our products 
and technologies. The laboratory in Enschede 
will serve as the hub in a centre of excellence 
model for R&D, coordinating the research and 
development activities in our other Foundry 
R&D centres located in Pittsburgh (USA), 
Feignies (France), and Tamworth (UK). 
Global centres of excellence In 2014, we 
also acquired the site and completed the 
design process for a state-of-the-art global 
centre of excellence for steelmaking and 
foundry refractories, located in Pittsburgh 
(USA). We expect to relocate from the existing 
Pittsburgh-based facility in 2016. We also 
progressed on our planning for a global 
centre of excellence of Advanced Refractories 
in Visakhapatnam (Vizag),India.
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 16 Our new Global R&D centre in  
Enschede, Netherlands 
Equipped with the latest development of 
technologies, this centre is fundamental to 
maintaining our technology leadership.
The benefits 
Accuoptix™ combines the 
proven advantages of continuous 
temperature measurement in 
terms of a reliable and consistent 
data stream, with a reduced need 
for operator interaction. It also 
eliminates the problem of gradual 
deterioration in performance and 
ultimate failure of the thermocouple 
experienced with the existing 
Platinum-Rhodium systems. The 
cost effective system – together 
with other Vesuvius developments 
Patented quick fixing
– creates a toolbox of sensors and 
instrumentation to improve caster 
process control, and deliver yield 
and quality improvements for the 
steel producer. Being remotely 
installed, and designed for manual, 
manipulator or robotic handling,  
the optical sensor is not submerged 
into the molten steel and is therefore 
not destroyed in case of accidental 
sheath breakage. It provides a 
continuous, reliable and cost 
effective temperature data stream 
for optimum process control.
Optical lens
Heat shield
VISO
Tm
 protection tube
manipulator arm
Tube holder
margin improvement
Since demerger, we have initiated plans to 
restore our margins towards their historic 
highs. In this second year of implementation, 
significant progress was made in reducing 
operating costs and refocusing the business 
towards high-margin, differentiated  
offerings that create outstanding value for  
our customers. Underlying Group trading  
margin improved by 71 basis points in 
2014 and by 179 basis points since 2012, 
notwithstanding the unfavourable exchange 
rates that impacted most of the countries 
where Vesuvius enjoys its highest margins. 
This outcome is the result of self-help 
initiatives applied in many of our 65 
manufacturing sites, and the application 
of the lean manufacturing concept in our 
processes, together with a constant focus  
on our core activities.
Quality and reliability
Reliability in quality and delivery is vital to our 
customers as they use Vesuvius’ products in 
critical areas of their own processes. The level 
of risk attached to a catastrophic failure is 
often such that, for people and equipment, 
no compromise can be accepted. Reliability 
therefore is a primary commitment of Vesuvius. 
We strive to deliver reliability and consistency 
through best-in-class quality management 
in our 65 production sites and 107 major 
customer locations. 
Quality policy Our quality policy clearly 
defines the commitments and responsibilities 
which apply to all aspects of the business. 
Reliable quality is intrinsic to our business 
model, and is part of our Vesuvius brand 
equity. Recognising this fundamental part of 
our promise to customers, over the past two 
years, we have renewed our focus on quality, 
improving customer relationships and adding 
to operating efficiency. Since the inception 
of our Turbo.Q quality initiative two years 
ago we have reduced the number of repeat 
customer complaints by a factor of three.  
See case study on p18  
Quality plan features Vesuvius’ 8D 
methodology to resolve customer, supplier 
and internal issues is built upon the eight 
disciplines we need to follow in order to 
eliminate problems permanently. It is focused 
on determining the root cause, implementing 
effective corrective actions and preventing 
repeat issues.
17
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
We have committed to becoming a true 
learning organisation. Every problem is 
welcomed as an opportunity for improvement 
where lessons learned are analysed and 
shared in order to leverage the benefits  
across the Group.
We are applying lean principles to improve 
shop floor quality, responsiveness, 
and flexibility. These principles drive 
implementation of:
•  Strong control plans to detect any defects  
as close as possible to their point of 
occurrence in order to facilitate immediate 
problem solving
•    Accelerated product flow to allow  
quicker detection of issues and fewer 
rejects/less rework
•   Standardised production methods to ensure 
excellent quality. See case study below  
Lean programme
Cost leadership and margin improvement 
are two of our strategic priorities, and in a 
business where we need to manage the 
challenges presented by the volatility in  
our end-markets, a focus on process 
efficiency and quality is fundamental.  
See case study opposite 
From 201 1 to 2014, our Quality 
Breakthrough initiative has allowed us  
to divide by three the percentage of  
repeats out of our total number of  
customer complaints. 
2014 focus:
•  Spreading the Quality Breakthrough 
practices and tools 
•  Increasing our problem solving capabilities 
•  Improving the quality of our raw materials.
To spread the Quality Breakthrough 
practices and tools, we took 325 managers 
through the two-day Turbo.Q training in 
28 sessions in 2014. This comes on top of 
the 93 senior managers – including Group 
Executive Committee members – who had 
been trained in 2013. Further sessions were 
organised in plants in local language.
We develop our problem solving capabilities 
through training and coaching in the correct 
use of our 8D-Practical Problem Solving 
methodology. In 2014 we solved 870 
problems using this technique, an increase  
of 50%. We also took an additional 
162 people through our four-day 8D-PPS 
training module, which brings the total 
number of people trained to 978.
Vesuvius is improving the quality of raw 
materials by better Supplier Corrective 
Action Request management, developing 
incoming inspection at all manufacturing 
sites, qualifying suppliers through supplier 
assessments and improving the quality of 
our raw material specifications. Resources 
were added in Europe and China in 2014 to 
focus specifically on supplier assessments. 
This allowed us to bring the number of 
assessments performed from 65 in 2013  
to 204 in 2014.
Quality 
breakthrough
Quality and reliability
Our Lean Programme started in 2008 with 
the belief that:
•  Standardisation of tasks and processes is the 
cornerstone of safety, quality, productivity, 
and continuous improvement
•  Employee motivation and customer 
satisfaction are critical foundations for  
the long-term success of the Group
•  Improving information flow is instrumental 
to guarantee fast and effective cross-
functional processes.
Work on lean initiatives has intensified 
in 2014 The Lean Network has been 
reinforced with new Lean engineers identified 
in all our major sites. Each of these individuals 
has participated in a comprehensive induction 
programme to bring them up to the highest 
standard of excellence.
Our Lean engineers implement Lean tools and 
techniques across all Vesuvius facilities. They 
deliver training and coaching to operations 
managers, group leaders and team leaders 
who, in turn, introduce Lean tools into their 
day-to-day activities to help achieve targets 
and improve the current situation. 
The Group has developed a three-day 
Standardised Work workshop to continue  
the deployment of Lean practices, with 
a special emphasis on safety, quality and 
productivity improvement.
In total, more than 20 successful workshops 
were held during 2014, providing significant 
results in terms of safety, productivity 
increases and lead time reductions. These 
workshops have involved more than 240 
participants from a wide cross-section of  
sites in 12 different countries.
What is Lean? 
Lean is all about creating more value 
for customers using less energy. Lean 
highlights seven waste areas that should 
be minimized... 
Non-
quality
Over-
production
Waiting
Transport Inventory motion Excess-
processing
N o w
t i m e
LEARN 
FROM EACH PROBLEM
DON’T LET 
OUR CUSTOMERS 
DOWN
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 18 5S housekeeping tool 5S is a key tool to reinforce 
the importance of operating in a safe environment 
for all employees. It also contributes to reducing 
work in progress and unnecessary movement 
– increasing efficiency, improving production 
flow and ensuring quality. 5S is based on the 
five important steps to improve cleanliness and 
workplace ownership, illustrated here.
Separate Sort Shine Standardise Sustain
22%
Increase in 
productivity
90%
Reduction in 
stoppages
Our solution 
Following the Group Standardised Work training 
deployed in 2014, the Trinec team applied Lean 
principles to the workplace, reorganising the two 
workstations to reduce risk, remove unnecessary 
movement and improve ergonomics. 
The benefits 
These Lean working practices have reduced 
stoppage time to change patterns by nine 
minutes (a 90% reduction), increasing 
productivity by 22% to 215 parts per shift.  
The site is now able to meet the increasing 
demands of its customers with the same  
number of employees.
The challenge 
In our Czech facility of Trinec, a production cell 
dedicated to insulating sleeve application, was 
facing an increase in work volume and price 
pressure from customers. The cell struggled to 
meet the growing demand in production as it was 
only able to produce 20 parts every 40 minutes, 
partly due to a required stoppage of ten minutes  
at the end of each pattern. Capacity was limited  
to 176 parts per shift. 
Productivity 
improved by 
22% applying 
Lean principles 
Lean Programme
19
OUR BUSINESS Chief Executive’s strategic overview continued
c ontinuous improvement In 2015, we 
will maintain our focus on the deployment of 
Lean practices with a continuing emphasis on: 
•  5S to reinforce the ownership of the work 
environment by workers and continue to 
increase safety
•  Equipment efficiency and reliability 
improvement with a large Total Productive 
Maintenance programme. The additional 
capacity generated by this initiative will 
allow us to reduce our cost of production 
and allocate saved capital expenditure to 
new Lean flexible automated equipment  
for key products
•  Equipment flexibility improvement with the 
continuing implementation of the Single 
Minute Exchange of Die production method
•  A focus on batch reduction planning using 
Kanban, a scheduling system for just-in-time 
production to support inventory reduction
•  Labour efficiency through the reinforcement 
of initiatives to standardise work, using 
the Kaizen continuous improvement 
framework.
Portfolio management and capital 
allocation
After the divestments undertaken over the 
last two years in the Advanced Refractories 
business in order to concentrate on the higher 
margin specialty segment, and the disposal 
of our Precious Metals Processing division in 
2013, we initiated the development of a new 
business in data capture for the steel and 
foundry industries which is the starting point 
for our strategic focus on Technical Services. 
Process Metrix, a Californian company 
providing laser measurement of refractory 
wear in liquid steel vessels was acquired 
in August, and ECIL Met Tec, a Brazilian 
company involved in the measurement of 
temperature and chemistry of steel was 
acquired in October. We will continue 
to pursue these types of acquisitions to 
reinforce our capability to provide engineered 
services that allow our customers greater 
management and control over their 
processes. 
Our investment spend in 2014 amounted  
to £76.5m, out of which £53. 1m was spent 
on plant and equipment and £23.4m  
on acquisitions. 
Efforts to continue to reduce working capital 
during the year were affected by a general 
drift of payment terms from our customers, 
predominantly in China, passing on the 
financial constraints encountered in the steel 
and foundry industries. This increase was 
partly compensated for by a reduction in our 
inventory days across all of our businesses. 
Overall our net debt increased slightly, driven 
by our acquisition strategy. 
 Read our Financial review on p26-31 
Health and safety
Safety remains our primary operating priority 
which we take as a key indicator of our 
performance. The Safety Breakthrough plan, 
initiated in 2008, delivered a considerable 
reduction in our Lost Time Injury Frequency 
Rate (“LTIFR”), from 9.8 to 1.8 in 2012. In 
201 1, a renewed action plan called Turbo.S 
was developed with the objective of reaching 
a further level of improvement in our LTIFR. 
However, 2014 saw this improving trend 
continue to plateau and we have not yet been 
able to capture the benefits of this additional 
Group-wide programme of internal safety 
audits and improvement opportunities  
with permanent actions now operating in  
our facilities. 
As we increase our presence at our customer 
sites, our employees are exposed to harsh 
environments in locations where the 
complexity of risk management is increased. 
We continue to focus on health and safety  
as a fundamental responsibility. 
 Read more about Safety on p46-48 
Sustainability
We are committed to the positive integration 
of our site activities into local communities 
and to contributing proactively to the 
protection of the environment. During 2014, 
we reduced our global consumption of 
energy and our emissions of CO
2
. Moreover 
we continue to develop solutions for our 
customers to help them reduce substantially 
their waste, their energy consumption and 
their CO
2
 emissions. See case study opposite 
management focus
Towards the end of the year we undertook 
a change in the leadership of several of 
our product lines. Glenn Cowie who had 
substantially improved the performance 
of Advanced Refractories, took over the 
Foundry division and Tanmay Ganguly, 
previously Managing Director of Vesuvius 
India Limited and Vice President for Vesuvius’ 
Steel division activities in India and South East 
Asia, replaced Glenn as President Advanced 
Refractories. Luis Reyes, previously Vice 
President Flow Control North America, was 
appointed President Technical Services with 
a mandate to drive growth in this important 
new area and develop our recently acquired 
businesses. Both Tanmay and Luis have joined 
Glenn on the Group Executive Committee in 
their new roles. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business 20 Our overall management focus is now on 
building and implementing an excellence 
plan in the management of our operations. 
This will involve the entire population of our 
employees around six key areas: customers, 
innovation, strategy, business support, supply 
chain agility and talent management. We are 
setting precise roadmaps in each of these 
areas to reach the status of a truly best-in-
class company.
This process will help us to deliver our strategy 
for growth, promote permanent ongoing 
innovation, higher efficiency and the success 
of our new technical services initiative. 
Outlook
While the global economic backdrop remains 
uncertain in our main markets, we expect the 
underlying trading environment in the current 
year to be broadly similar to that experienced 
in 2014. We are confident we will be able to 
continue to drive improvement in our trading 
margins and working capital performance 
through self-help actions, and we will focus 
on the acquisition of bolt-on companies to 
reinforce our growth opportunities. We will 
do this whilst retaining a strong balance sheet 
in order to give us financial flexibility.
François Wanecq, Chief Executive  
3 March 2015
60% 2%
Reduction in rejection 
rates
Energy reduction
25%
a pplication rate increase
The challenge 
An automotive foundry in Western India 
– producing 36,000 MT/A brake discs for 
global car manufacturers – was experiencing 
inconsistencies in the quality and performance 
of their cast products, resulting in high rejection 
rates of 1 in 20 (5%). Our customer reported  
that their incumbent supplier had not offered  
a solution to address this issue.
Our solution 
Working closely with the customer, our technical 
and sales teams developed a bespoke solution 
which included the Foseco Metal Stream 
Inoculation system, Foseco Inoculation product 
technology and our thermal analysis systems – 
ITACA – to optimise application rates.
The benefits 
Our bespoke toolkit delivered measurable 
improvements in quality and margins, as well 
as reducing the environmental impact. Cast 
products have become much more consistent, 
and rejection rates have been reduced by 60% 
(from 1 in 20 to 1 in 50). Lower rejection rates 
have also resulted in fewer castings to re-melt, 
resulting in 2% less energy consumed, and lower 
CO
2
 emissions. 
Reduce rejection rates and 
CO
2 
emissions in an Indian 
automotive foundry
Sustainability impact
21
OUR BUSINESS
