 09
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
Message from our Chief Executive
The listing of Vesuvius plc on the London Stock Exchange, followed by the 
demerger of Alent plc, was the dominant event of 2012 for our company. 
The demerger process involved a heavy workload and occupied much of the 
time of the corporate teams, but it did not affect the focus of the operational 
crews, who instead had to cope with a downturn in their markets, which 
started around the middle of the year. This led to major restructuring to 
adapt our cost structure and increase the flexibility of our business.
Meanwhile the new strategy for Vesuvius, involving an increased focus on 
providing technical services, principally to the steel and foundry industries, 
was presented to the investment community during the demerger process 
and was well received. We have a focused Board with a number of new 
Directors, and clearly stated objectives — the long–term future is very 
promising.
THE EMERGENCE OF VESUVIUS PLC
Vesuvius is a global leader in metal casting engineering. Our profitable 
business model derives from a presence across the world at all major 
customers’ facilities. Vesuvius has established with them over the years 
a relationship of trust and partnership based on the true value we create 
in our customers’ processes with our unique technological product and 
service offering. 
This relationship of trust is essential, as we provide products and 
solutions that are on the critical path of the molten metal casting process 
with considerable impact on the safe and efficient performance of our 
customers’ plants.
Our new existence as an independent company allows us to concentrate 
our considerable assets and talented workforce on the development of this 
service offering to our customers with a clear message and total focus. Our 
strategy will be consistent and clear and our commitment to it will now be 
more evident to our customers, as well as to our shareholders.
Our business is well prepared to cope with the cyclicality of our end-
markets. While market growth rates were high for nearly a decade up 
to 2009, recent years have been more varied. Nonetheless, Vesuvius 
has been able to exceed the underlying growth rates of its end-markets 
over the long–term. This is due to our unique technological offering that 
brings value to our customers’ process and allows us to make continuous 
improvements to the consumable products and related systems which 
we supply. To a certain extent, our customers are more in need of our 
market-leading solutions when the market conditions they face are more 
challenging, as we ultimately bring more efficient and therefore more  
cost-effective solutions to our customers.
“Our primary 
objectives for 
the coming 
two years will 
be to retain a 
strong balance 
sheet, to restore 
our margins, 
to grow our 
presence in 
China and 
to develop 
our strategy 
dedicated 
to providing 
superior 
technical 
services for 
the steel 
and foundry 
industries.” 
FRANÇOIS WANECQ,  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 10
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Message from our Chief Executive 
continued
2012 MARKET EVOLUTION
After a promising start to the year, when the 
prospects of our steel and foundry end-markets 
appeared positive, by June there were clear signs 
that the economy was weakening. Whilst many 
commentators suggested this was due to a short-
term inventory adjustment, we saw in September 
a clear deterioration that led us to reduce our 
expectations for the full year. The downturn was 
particularly marked in Foundry and was principally 
related to the weakness of the car market in Europe 
and the truck market globally. As expected, steel 
markets slowed down as well. Overall, for the entire 
year, world steel production increased marginally, 
as it did in 2011; however, the geographic split of 
world steel production since 2008 has now stabilised 
in three distinct groups: China, which has grown by 
40% since 2008; Europe and NAFTA, which declined 
by close to 20% over the same period; and the rest 
of the world, which has stayed around the same level 
as seen in 2008.
THE SOLAR MARKET 
During 2012 the market for the production of 
solar panels did not recover. Whilst the installation 
of solar panels around the world, especially in 
Germany, continued at a high level, the inventories 
accumulated in previous years and the overcapacity 
affecting all segments of the supply chain have 
continued to weigh on prices for the moderate 
volumes of Solar Crucibles sold. In addition, the 
substantial reduction of government subsidies for 
renewable energy projects is expected to act as a 
drag on the market going forward. Furthermore, the 
decrease of energy prices in the USA due to increased 
shale gas availability may discourage the appetite for 
renewable energy supplies in the USA and elsewhere. 
As a result of these various market forces, early in 
2013 the Board decided regretfully to exit the Solar 
Crucible business.
A RAPID ADAPTATION TO MARKET CHANGES 
When the first signs of a slowdown began 
appearing in June, we prepared an action plan that 
was triggered in September when the continued 
downward trend was confirmed. During the last four 
months of 2012 we closed or sold five plants (three 
manufacturing Solar Crucibles, and two in the Steel 
division) and secured the sale of one low-margin 
construction business. Headcount was reduced by 
850 (close to 8%) in the second half of the year; we 
also activated many flexible employment agreements 
which had been negotiated following the crisis 
of 2008/2009 to reduce employment costs whilst 
avoiding the permanent loss of skilled workers.
During the same period, we reduced capital 
expenditure and developed a Group-wide programme 
of inventory reductions that has allowed us to reduce 
our net working capital in the year. Cost control 
and cash generation will remain at the centre of 
our management actions in 2013 to maintain our 
flexibility and restore our margins.
OVERVIEW OF GROUP RESULTS
With the trading results of Alent and the Precious 
Metals Processing division being reported as 
discontinued operations for 2012, Group revenue 
from continuing operations in 2012 of £1,548 million 
was 8% lower than 2011 on an as reported basis 
and 4% lower on an underlying basis, which adjusts 
for the SERT and Metallurgica acquisitions in 2011 
and 2012 respectively, the sale in 2012 of the low-
margin Andreco-Hurll business and foreign exchange 
differences. The underlying decline in revenue reflects 
the marked slowdown in trading in the second 
half of the year, when steel production in the key 
markets of the EU and North America fell by almost 
10% compared to the first half; but also reflects 
the ongoing strategy to exit lower-margin business 
and a 2% reduction due to further erosion in Solar 
Crucibles revenue. 
 
Trading profit from continuing operations of  
£133.0 million was 27% lower than that reported 
in 2011, reflecting the lower revenues, Solar 
Crucible losses and increased bad debts. Without 
Solar Crucibles and the higher bad debt charge, 
the reduction would have been 16%. The Group’s 
reported return on sales margin from continuing 
operations was 8.6%, down from 10.9% in 2011.
A NEW STRATEGIC INITIATIVE
In November we presented to the investor 
community our ambitions for Vesuvius plc, with a 
strategy designed to deliver superior returns to our 
shareholders built around five key objectives:
 ❯ maintaining our existing technology leadership 
position;
 ❯ enlarging our addressable market through the 
penetration of product and service solutions;
GROUP 
REVENUE*
£m
1,392
2008
1,131
2009
1,495
2010
1,686
2011
1,548
2012
GROUP 
TRADING PROFIT* 
£m
176.8
2008
60.6
2009
170.8
2010
183.5
2011
133.0
2012
* Headline performance 11
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
 ❯ leveraging our strong positions in developing 
markets to capture growth;
 ❯ improving cost leadership and margins;
 ❯ building a comprehensive offering in metal 
casting engineering;
– and to achieve these whilst maintaining a rigorous 
focus on cash flow generation.
This strategy is being rigorously implemented, as 
evidenced by a number of recent developments. For 
example, we will be building three new research 
centres in the next two years in Pittsburgh, US, 
Enschede, the Netherlands and Visakhaptnam, India.
We have also recently succeeded in achieving the 
first industrial installation of our innovative robotic 
tundish technology in Hyundai (Korea) and we have 
already introduced 12 of our Initek systems, for the 
computer-controlled inoculation of ductile iron, since 
bringing this new technology concept to market 
globally in 2010. 
In China, we have completely reorganised our 
local structure to give more autonomy to our local 
management and to accelerate expansion whilst at 
the same time developing a business model based 
on the superior quality and performance with which 
Vesuvius has succeeded in all other parts of the 
world. In Brazil and in the Middle East we have 
gained significant market share.
Furthermore, we have reduced our cost base and 
improved our productivity through a Group-wide 
Lean Manufacturing initiative.
Overall, we are building a strategy directed towards 
providing superior technical services for the steel and 
foundry industries based on our constant presence at 
customers’ sites, our intimate knowledge of all processes 
industry-wide and our growing expertise in real time 
data capture and interpretation. This fundamental 
business initiative is aimed at developing the Group to 
be less capital-intensive and with better margins, putting 
technology leadership at the core of everything we do.
PRECIOUS METALS PROCESSING
We have been exiting businesses that are not core to 
our strategy — Precious Metals Processing comes into 
that definition. It is a good business, with healthy market 
positions and a strong management team, but it is not 
aligned with our future strategic direction. We are now in 
the process of disposing of this business to Possehl mbH, 
for whom the business will be more complementary. This 
will leave Vesuvius with a much clearer focus on its core 
areas of technological leadership and end-markets, with 
the objective to grow as the global leader in metal casting 
solutions and services. 
OUTLOOK
We currently expect the trading environment during the 
first half of 2013 to be broadly similar to that experienced 
in the second half of 2012, with some improvement in 
general market conditions anticipated later in the year .
Following the significant restructuring of our operations 
and disposals, we anticipate that Group revenue in 2013 
will be lower than in 2012. The expected disposal of 
Precious Metals Processing will enable Vesuvius to focus 
primarily on the steel and foundry markets. 
We have undertaken a range of self-help actions 
to adjust our business to the current trading 
environment and to increase our operational 
flexibility. We expect the benefits of these actions 
to start to drive a recovery in our trading margins 
towards the end of 2013.
Our primary objectives for the coming two years 
will be to retain a strong balance sheet, to restore 
our margins, to grow our presence in China and to 
develop our strategy dedicated to providing superior 
technical services for the steel and foundry industries.
 
FRANÇOIS WANECQ
Chief Executive 
28 March 2013
2012 REVENUE  
BY CUSTOMER LOCATION*
n EUROPE  33%
n ASIA-PACIFIC  29%
n NAFTA  25%
n ROW  13%
2012 REVENUE  
BY OPERATING LOCATION*
n EUROPE  41%
n NAFTA  25%
n ASIA-PACIFIC  23%
n ROW  11%
* Headline performance 12
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
1.2.3.4.
