 2	 avis-europe.com	 Annual Report 2008
Results	 overview
Revenues from continuing operations were ahead 
by 1.3% on a constant currency basis and just 
1.0% lower at €1,313.8 million on a reported basis, 
with good growth from licensees and in the Budget 
branded business offset by the impact of currency 
translation in the Avis corporate business. We 
achieved a 0.7% increase in rental revenue per day 
on a constant currency basis. This improvement 
was mainly due to the benefits of previous 
investment in revenue management initiatives 
and pricing actions. Rental revenue per day on a 
reported basis was 1.2% lower due to translation 
impacts from sterling and Swiss franc revenue. 
We increased underlying operating profit on 
continuing operations to €112.7 million (2007: 
€106.5 million), reflecting the improvement in 
rental revenue per day on a constant currency 
basis, together with significant cost reductions as 
a result of strong actions taken by management 
and from translational foreign exchange benefits 
on the sterling element of the Group’s cost base. 
These cost reductions offset the negative impact of 
weaker used car markets on residual values. 
Net finance costs on continuing operations 
increased to €75.1 million (2007: €69.7 million) 
reflecting an increase in average net debt, offset  
by a reduction in the underlying effective finance 
rate from 6.7% to 6.2% per annum.
Underlying profit before tax on continuing 
operations increased to €38.0 million (2007: €37.6 
million). Earnings per share on the same basis were 
2.4 euro cents (2007: 2.9 euro cents). 
Total operating profit was €97.1 million (2007: 
€101.3 million), total net finance costs were €94.5 
million (2007: €68.9 million) and total profit before 
tax on continuing operations was €3.0 million 
(2007: €33.2 million). This is stated after a net 
exceptional charge before tax of €28.8 million 
(2007: €6.9 million) and certain re-measurement 
items and economic hedging losses of €6.2 million 
(2007: gains of €2.5 million). Exceptional items 
primarily relate to restructuring costs. Loss per 
share on the same basis was 1.2 euro cents (2007: 
earnings per share 1.6 euro cents). Overall profit 
before tax (including the discontinued operation) 
was €4.3 million (2007: €19.7 million). Loss per 
share on the same basis was 1.1 euro cents (2007: 
earnings per share 0.3 euro cents).
Currency	 effects
The 2008 results were affected by exchange 
rate movements, in particular the euro/sterling 
exchange rate, when compared with the prior year. 
The average sterling/euro rate for 2008 was 1.28 
compared to 1.47 in the prior year. From a trading 
perspective the strength of the euro had an adverse 
effect on inbound business from the US into Europe 
and UK outbound business into Europe, but a 
positive effect on the translation of the net cost of 
the Group’s UK activities. 
Dividends
In line with recent previous statements, and in view 
of the current difficult trading environment, the 
Board has not recommended payment of a dividend 
for the year ended 31 December 2008. The 
Board’s intention is to recommence the payment of 
dividends when the financial and trading position of 
the Group allows.
Strategic	 development
We will remain focussed on our key strategic 
priorities; brand leadership, service differentiation 
and geographic diversification; optimising the 
allocation of capital; and improving relentlessly 
our cost position and business model flexibility. At 
the same time we will place additional emphasis 
on certain elements of our strategy to adapt the 
We	 made	 continued	 trading	 progress,	 despite	 the	 deteriorating	 economic	 environment	 and	 weak	 used	 car	 markets.	 Brand	 leadership,	 service	 differentiation	 and	 geographic	 diversification	 supported	 volumes.	 Strong	 revenue	 management	 and	 pricing	 actions	 helped	 us	 to	 deliver	 a	 further	 improvement	 in	 rental	 revenue	 per	 day,	 on	 a	 constant	 currency	 basis.	 We	 also	 achieved	 a	 significant	 reduction	 in	 the	 fixed	 cost	 base	 to	 protect	 and	 indeed	 to	 deliver	 an	 increase	 in	 our	 underlying	 operating	 margin.
Chairman’s	statement
business to the present particularly tough economic 
outlook. In particular we will focus on opportunities 
in the current industry environment to protect our 
revenue, reduce capacity and raise prices. We are 
also developing further significant cost actions to 
defend the business from inflationary pressures, 
whilst continuing to adapt our business model.
Outlook	 Whilst we are anticipating lower volumes, we are 
tightening fleet capacity and planning a further 
improvement in pricing and a step-change 
improvement in utilisation. In addition, the benefit 
of last year’s restructuring together with the impact 
of further cost actions are now being realised. 
We have ensured that we have sufficient 
committed liquidity for the next 12 months and, 
from the actions outlined above, anticipate a 
positive free cash flow to face successfully the 
challenges of 2009. 
Employees	 and	 Directors
In my last statement, I welcomed Pascal Bazin, 
who was appointed Group Chief Executive 
on 1 January 2008. Additionally, we have 
strengthened the senior management teams with 
the appointment of both new Group Commercial 
and HR Directors and a new Managing Director in 
Spain. At the same time we have ensured that our 
management structure reflects the international 
nature of our business, an aim which we have now 
achieved with the Avis Executive Board. These 
new appointments, together with the experienced 
Avis management on the team, are providing 
the balance and capability necessary to manage 
the business through a very difficult trading 
environment. 
I would like to thank Gilbert van Marcke de 
Lummen and Malcolm Miller for their many 
contributions to the Company, following their 
retirement from the Board in May. In addition, 
Lesley Colyer retired as Group HR and Corporate 
Affairs Director and stood down from the Board in 
July after 19 years with the Group. I would like to 
thank Lesley for her substantial contributions to the 
development of Avis throughout her career with us. 
Finally, I would like to thank all our employees 
around the world for their continued hard work, 
enthusiasm, loyalty and professionalism. As always, 
it is their efforts on behalf of our customers that 
really make the difference and we have continued 
to achieve solid customer satisfaction scores this 
year, despite reducing staff numbers, again winning 
many industry awards in 2008.
Alun	 Cathcart
Chairman
