 “ In 2014, the Company made good 
progress on all five of its strategic 
priorities, whilst maintaining 
its ultimate focus on creating 
sustainable value for shareholders. ”
John mcDonough c BE Chairman
Chairman’s statement 
See Governance on p56-97:
 Chairman’s governance letter on p60
 Board effectiveness on p63
 Board accountability on p65
 Audit Committee report on p67
 Nomination Committee report on p73
 Remuneration Committee report on p75
 
Strategic focus
I am pleased to report that during 2014  
your Company has continued to make very 
encouraging progress both in its financial 
performance and its strategic positioning.
Your Board has adopted a clearly defined 
strategy for profitable growth and has already 
delivered substantially against that strategy. 
In 2013, the structure of the Company was 
successfully transformed, exiting non-core 
businesses in order to create a fully focused 
molten metal engineering company, with 
global leadership positions in its chosen 
markets, providing technologically advanced 
products and services that are critical to its 
customers’ efficiency and profitability. 
Having done so, the priority for the 
management in 2014 was to execute on  
the five stated strategic priorities: 
•   Reinforcing our technology leadership
•   Enlarging our addressable markets through 
increased penetration of existing and new 
value-creating solutions
•  Leveraging our strong positions in 
developing markets to capture the growth 
opportunities that they represent
•  Improving our cost leadership and our 
margins
 •  Building an increasingly comprehensive 
technical services offering.
Good progress was made on all five of these 
priorities. In particular, the business was 
strengthened in China, which remains a 
strategically important growth market for us 
in the long term, and two further technical 
services acquisitions in the US and Brazil  
were completed in August and October 
respectively. Details of how management 
continued to deliver against all of these 
strategic priorities are set out later in this 
Strategic report. 
The Board as a whole is very clear that the 
Company’s ultimate focus must be on 
creating sustainable value for shareholders, 
and we are prepared to explore all options 
that we believe can help achieve this. This has 
been demonstrated in recent months and this 
open-minded approach will continue to be 
central to the way in which the Board sets the 
future strategic direction of the Company.
Performance and dividend
In 2014 the Company focused on exploiting 
its market opportunities to the full, whilst 
exercising firm financial and capital discipline. 
This resulted in a solid performance in 2014, 
despite mixed trading conditions in end-
markets and the unpredictable economic  
and geopolitical outlook globally. Profit 
performance and margins have improved 
again, cash generation has remained strong, 
and the Company’s balance sheet is robust.
Vesuvius is a well-invested and inherently  
cash generative business. Its dividend  
policy aims to deliver long-term dividend 
growth, provided that this is supported  
by underlying earnings, cash flows,  
capital expenditure requirements and the  
prevailing market outlook. The Board has 
therefore recommended a final dividend of 
1 1. 125 pence per share for the year ended 
31 December 2014 (2013: 10.25 pence). This 
would result in a total dividend for the year  
of 16. 125 pence per share (2013: 15 pence), 
an increase of 7 .5%. If approved at the 
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend 
will be paid on 22 May 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 10 April 2015. 
Vesuvius plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2014 02 Board and governance
During the course of the year, your Board has 
continued to build an increasingly detailed 
understanding of Vesuvius, its people, its 
markets and the opportunities and challenges 
it faces. This is vital if we are properly to 
discharge our responsibility for setting the 
strategic direction of the Company, and for 
ensuring that the appropriate culture is 
embedded throughout the organisation  
to deliver that strategy. 
To that end, during the year the Board 
conducted visits to the existing Vesuvius R&D 
and manufacturing facilities in Cleveland  
and Pittsburgh, together with the building 
acquired for the new R&D laboratory. The 
Board visited customers of the Foundry 
business, and conducted management 
meetings with both the Flow Control and 
Foundry groups in NAFTA. In March, 
I personally visited the Company’s Advanced 
Refractories and Flow Control facilities in 
China and, in September, the Steel and 
Foundry operations in India.
The Board firmly believes that strong 
corporate governance is central to the delivery 
of sustainable long-term shareholder value. 
The Company continues to operate under a 
robust governance structure which complies 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
and develops governance arrangements to 
comply with best practice.
The Board also believes that thorough and 
structured long-term succession planning is 
an important element of that governance. 
With that in mind, in June a dedicated 
strategy day was held where, amongst other 
things, a review of Executive Director and 
senior management succession planning  
was conducted. In November, we undertook 
an externally facilitated Board evaluation, 
which built on the themes identified from  
the evaluation undertaken in 2013. The very 
positive results of this evaluation are set out  
in the Governance report on page 64. 
As a result of these initiatives, I can state with 
confidence that yours is a knowledgeable, 
cohesive and well-diversified Board with an 
appropriate mix of skills and experience and  
a clear understanding of its responsibilities 
both to the Company and to shareholders.
Having created a substantially new Board at 
the time of the demerger in late 2012, there 
were no further changes to its composition 
during 2014. Jeff Hewitt, however, is to stand 
down at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. Jeff has been a Non-executive 
Director of the Company and its predecessor, 
Cookson Group plc, for nine years, has been 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and has 
served as the Senior Independent Director for 
the past two years. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank him for his outstanding 
service over that period of time.
The Board has today announced the 
appointment of two new Non-executive 
Directors, who will join the Board on 2 April 
2015. Douglas Hurt has been Finance Director 
of IMI plc, the global engineering group, since 
2006 and is also a Non-executive Director  
of Tate & Lyle PLC. Hock Goh’s experience  
of working in China, and from his years at 
Schlumberger, will be particularly valuable  
as we continue to develop our businesses in 
China and in Technical Services. Douglas Hurt 
will succeed Jeff Hewitt as Audit Committee 
Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
following the 2015 AGM. 
Details of the composition, responsibilities  
and operation of the Board, and the current 
Directors’ biographies, are set out in the 
Governance report starting on page 56. 
Biographical information for Douglas Hurt 
and Hock Goh will be included in the Notice 
of Meeting for the forthcoming AGM.
The Company’s Code of Conduct which 
clearly sets out the culture, values and 
behaviour that the Board expects from all  
our people is discussed further on pages 44 
and 45, and is available in full on the 
Company’s website www.vesuvius.com. 
Our people
We ask a lot of our people – as do our 
customers – and I continue to admire their 
talent, their commitment and their ambition 
to deliver over and above what is expected of 
them. This professionalism, across the Group, 
is the single most significant contributor to  
the Company’s success and, on behalf of my 
Board colleagues, I thank them all. 
In return, the Board recognises fully that the 
health and safety of our people, and the 
creation of opportunities for them to develop 
and use their talents, is key to the sustainable 
long-term success of your Company. The 
sections on Safety and on Human Resources 
within the Strategic Report set out how this 
commitment is put into action.
a nnual General meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will 
be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn 
Fields, London at 1 1.00 am on 14 May 2015. 
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory  
notes accompany this Annual Report and are 
available on our website. My Board colleagues 
and I look forward to meeting as many 
shareholders as possible at that time.
In the meantime, on behalf of the Board,  
I thank all shareholders for their continued 
support of Vesuvius, and look forward to 
reporting on further positive progress in the 
months and years ahead.
John mcDonough c BE, Chairman
3 March 2015
03
OUR BUSINESS Section One: Our Business 04 Vesuvius plc / Annual report and accounts 2014 In this section 
06  Vesuvius at a glance
10 Our business model
12 Chief Executive’s strategic overview
22 Risk management
The Strategic Report set out on pages 02 to 53 contains a fair review of our 
businesses, strategy, and business model and the associated principal risks 
and uncertainties. We also deliver a review of our 2014 performance and set 
out an overview of our markets. Details of our people, values and approach 
to Corporate Responsibility are also contained in the report. This section 
shows how we are well-positioned to grow and to deliver superior returns 
to shareholders.
François Wanecq  
Chief Executive
Our Business
Section One
1
c hris O’Shea  
Chief Financial Officer
OUR BUSINESS
05
