 	 avis-europe.com 	 Annual Report 2008  Following my appointment as Group Chief Executive 
on 1 January 2008, we undertook an initial review 
of our strategy and decided to place more emphasis 
on brand leadership and service differentiation, 
geographic and customer diversification, cost 
reduction and improving the flexibility of our 
business model. 
We also adopted a stronger operational approach 
with more emphasis on delivery and accountability, 
which are fundamental in a service, customer-facing 
and extensively networked business, as well as on 
accelerating benefits from recent investment in 
initiatives such as revenue management. 
During the year we made very good progress in 
implementing this strategy, but also in reacting very 
quickly, particularly in the second half, as the trading 
environment weakened.
Brand leadership and service differentiation, as well 
as our geographic and customer diversification, 
supported volumes in a weakening demand 
background. Group revenues were ahead by 
1.3% in constant currency and just 1.0% lower at 
€1,313.8 million on a reported basis. Our excellent 
and well balanced customer portfolio enabled us 
to compensate lower revenues in the less resilient 
Leisure segment with continued growth in the 
Corporate and Insurance/Replacement segments. 
The strength of our brand also supported our 
leading position with industry partners; we recently 
agreed a five-year global and exclusive partnership 
with British Airways, in addition to strengthening  
our partnerships with Iberia, KLM and Lufthansa. 
The renewal of our five-year exclusive partnership 
with SNCF and our preferred partner status with 
Eurostar also put us in an excellent position to share 
in the growth of the rapidly expanding high-speed 
rail networks.
We reinforced the differentiation of our brand by 
implementing further customer-oriented initiatives 
across the network, all designed to improve speed 
and quality of service. Our absolutely unique 
“3-minute promise”, for Avis Preferred members, 
is now rolled out across 600 stations in Europe 
and is serving customers with an exceptional 99% 
success rate. As a consequence we generated a 
very strong 18% increase in sign-ups to our loyalty 
programme, Avis Preferred, and achieved solid 
customer satisfaction scores. 
We placed a daily operational focus on achieving 
gains in constant currency rental revenue per day, 
our measure of pricing, to offset the pressures 
on costs. In particular we maximised the benefits 
from our recent three-year investment in revenue 
management, a series of tools and processes which 
help us maximise pricing, yields and utilisation. As a 
consequence, for the year as a whole, we achieved 
a 0.7% improvement in rental revenue per day at 
constant currency.
We took substantial and early actions to reduce 
costs to protect and indeed deliver an improvement 
in our operating margin. These included the 
enforcement of a rigorous recruitment freeze, faster 
release of seasonal staff and redundancies, which 
together saw a 9% reduction in full time employees 
in the second half. We also focussed on the 
rationalisation of property with the transfer of the 
staff of the UK business head-office into the Group 
headquarters building and the closing of low margin 
stations, as well as significant cuts in discretionary 
expenditure. Overall these actions delivered some 
cost benefits in 2008 and are expected to deliver 
savings of approximately €16 million annually 
thereafter. Since the year end we have implemented 
a salary freeze across the Group.
In terms of improving the flexibility of our business 
model we have ensured proactive management of 
I	 am	 very	 pleased	 to	 report	 a	 strongly	 resilient	 underlying	 trading	 performance,	 despite	 the	 deteriorating	 economic	 environment	 and	 weak	 used	 car	 markets	 we	 faced	 in	 2008.	 Underlying	 operating	 profit	 increased	 by	 5.8%	 to	 € 2.7	 million	 and	 profit	 before	 tax	 on	 the	 same	 basis	 was	 ahead	 by	 .0%	 to	 € 8.0	 million.	 Total	 operating	 profit	 was	 €97.	 million	 and	 total	 profit	 before	 tax	 was	 € .0	 million,	 being	 after	 restructuring	 charges	 to	 reduce	 the	 Group’s	 fixed	 cost	 base.
Chief	 executive’s	review
Overview
our fleet. We constantly optimised our fleet levels 
and reduced capacity to match demand, as soon 
as the trading environment began to weaken in the 
second half. As an example, in the fourth quarter 
of the year, we demonstrated this flexibility by 
reducing capacity by just under 5% and exiting 
December with utilisation ahead by 3.1%. 
Regarding funding, the credit markets are generally 
difficult at present, therefore we have ensured 
that we will have sufficient liquidity for the next 12 
months, with good headroom for our anticipated 
requirements. We continue to benefit from the 
flexibility of our business model, have strong capital 
and cash flow controls in place, and are focussed 
on improving asset returns. It is our intention to put 
further financing in place in good time for maturities 
that fall due from mid-2010.
In summary, these actions and results mean that 
we are well positioned to face the challenges and 
opportunities of 2009, as recessionary pressures 
intensify and the trading environment is expected to 
remain very difficult. 
Our key strategic priorities outlined above will 
remain unchanged, with a particular focus and 
emphasis on:
•  Protecting profitable revenue and leading the 
industry opportunity to change;
•  Developing further radical cost actions to defend 
the business from economic pressures;
•  Continuing to adapt our business model and its 
flexibility; and
•  Focussing on capital management and cash 
generation as key priorities.
We are developing further significant cost actions, 
whilst continuing to adapt our business model. 
We expect cost savings of around €22 million in 
2009, including the run-rate savings from 2008, 
and anticipate a further reduction in fleet capacity 
of around 5% to 10% as we target a step-change 
improvement in utilisation. These actions will help 
to maintain our flexibility in this difficult environment 
and ensure further progress in 2009.
Pascal	 Bazin
Chief Executive 
