 06
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Message from our Chairman
It gives me great pleasure to introduce the first Annual Report & Accounts 
of Vesuvius plc.
Our new company is the result of a detailed strategic review by the Board of 
Cookson Group plc, which concluded that a separation of Cookson’s main 
businesses would be in the interests both of its shareholders and of those 
respective businesses. That separation took effect on 19 December 2012 
resulting in the creation of Vesuvius plc, comprising the Engineered Ceramics 
and Precious Metals Processing businesses of the old Cookson. Alent plc, 
which comprises Cookson’s other businesses, is now listed on the Stock 
Exchange in its own right and is run as an entirely separate business.
I was honoured to be asked to join the Board of Vesuvius and to serve as its 
first Chairman. Our company is a global leader in metal flow engineering, 
principally serving the steel and foundry industries. We enjoy clear market 
leadership in the majority of the industry segments we serve. We have 
operations in 30 countries worldwide, with almost half our revenues 
generated in developing markets. Our businesses are technology-led, 
innovation-focused, with an increasingly important service dimension. Our 
products and services are critical to our customers’ efficiency and therefore 
profitability. Our financial profile is strong, with a robust balance sheet and a 
flexible business model that has enabled the delivery of good levels of profit 
and cash over the cycle and in the face of changing market conditions. 
RESULTS
End-market trends in Vesuvius’ major steel and foundry markets were very 
challenging during the latter part of 2012. As a result, our performance 
in the second half was substantially below that of the first half, leading to 
pro forma headline earnings per share of 29.4 pence, down from the 41.0 
pence for 2011. In response to those difficult conditions, decisive action 
was taken throughout the business, involving significant cost reduction 
and the permanent closure of three facilities. Our flexible business model 
allows management to continue to respond as necessary without affecting 
the underlying strength of our businesses, meaning that our competitive 
position entering 2013 remained very strong. 
Since the year end we have announced the closure of our Solar Crucible 
business and also the disposal of our Precious Metals Processing division, 
enabling management to focus wholly on our core business of molten 
metal engineering serving the global steel and foundry industries.
DIVIDENDS
Dividends will play an important part in delivering superior returns to 
our shareholders. Vesuvius is an inherently cash generative and well-
invested business and we aim to deliver long-term dividend growth whilst 
taking account of underlying earnings, cash flows, capital expenditure 
requirements and the prevailing market outlook. 
As set out in our documentation relating to the demerger, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 9.5 pence per share. The final dividend, if 
approved at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on  
27 June to shareholders on the register at 17 May.
“We have 
assembled 
a highly 
experienced 
Board of 
Directors, 
committed to 
the highest 
standards 
of corporate 
governance, 
and benefit 
from a very 
strong executive 
management 
team led 
by François 
Wanecq.” 
JOHN McDONOUGH 07
Overview
www.vesuvius.com Stock Code: VSVS
RETURN OF CAPITAL
As a result of the disposal of our Precious Metals 
Processing division, the Board intends to return the 
majority of the net proceeds to shareholders through an 
on market repurchase of shares, demonstrating our desire 
to exercise strong capital discipline and generate superior 
returns. Our strong balance sheet and cash generation 
allows us to do this and remain able to fund attractive 
future growth opportunities.
BOARD AND GOVERNANCE
Since my appointment as Chairman, I have 
undertaken a thorough induction to the Company 
and its products and services. I have visited many of 
our major manufacturing and R&D Centres in China, 
Poland, Germany, Belgium and the United States, and 
met large numbers of our people.
We have assembled a highly experienced Board of 
Directors, committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance.
As previously announced, Jan Oosterveld and John 
Sussens will retire an Non-executive Directors at this 
year’s AGM. Both served as Non-executive Directors 
of Cookson for over eight years, and I am very 
grateful to them for their contribution to the creation 
of Vesuvius plc and for the continuity that they have 
provided.
John Sussens will be succeeded as Senior 
Independent Director by Jeff Hewitt and as Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee by Jane Hinckley, 
who was appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
December 2012.
Nelda Connors was appointed to the Board as a Non-
executive Director on 1st March 2013 and Rachel 
Fell was replaced as Company Secretary by Richard 
Malthouse with effect from 21 March 2013 whilst 
she takes maternity leave. 
We will therefore go forward after the AGM in 2013 
with a slimmed down Board of seven Directors.
I have got to know our executive management team 
led by François Wanecq and am confident that we 
have a talented team in place to deliver our strategy.
The Board is responsible for setting Group strategy 
and charging the executive with the delivery of that 
strategy, including the management of resources 
and associated risks and controls. The Board has 
implemented a robust governance structure to 
manage those risks as described in the Governance 
Report on pages 64 to 99. Good corporate 
governance is central to the delivery of sustainable 
long-term shareholder value.
We have complied with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code throughout 2012 and continue 
to strive to evolve our governance arrangements to 
comply with emerging best practice.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Our 2013 AGM will be held on Tuesday 4 June 2013 
and the Notice of the Meeting and explanatory notes 
accompany this Annual Report. I look forward to the 
opportunity to meet our shareholders at the AGM.
OUR PEOPLE
The Company’s long-term success is dependent upon 
the diversity, dedication and commitment of all our 
people. We have invested in the development of our 
people and in succession planning. We have ensured 
that all our people share a common set of values. 
Leadership from the Board on corporate responsibility 
is important and paramount amongst the Board’s 
priorities is the safety and well-being of all our people 
and of the communities in which we operate. We 
have made further good progress on Health and 
Safety both in terms of safe working practices and the 
reporting of performance.
 
PROSPECTS
After many years as a division of a diversified group, 
and following months of intensive work on the 
demerger process, Vesuvius now stands to benefit 
significantly from being a stand-alone, wholly focused 
global leader in metal flow engineering. The markets 
we serve have long-term growth dynamics, and we 
are strongly positioned to leverage our significant 
presence in the world’s developing economies.
JOHN McDONOUGH CBE
Chairman
28 March 2013 08
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Image: Cross section of ultra-high density refractory – Vesuvius R&D
