 22904-04  26 March 2014 4:57 PM  Proof 2
François Wanecq  
Chief Executive
In our first complete year as an independent 
company, we have successfully initiated the 
recovery of margins across the Group despite 
the unfavourable economic environment. 
Market conditions remained challenging in 
2013 continuing from the reduced levels of 
activity seen in the second half of 2012, and 
sterling strengthened substantially in the second 
half of 2013, impacting our reported growth 
numbers. Against this backdrop we have taken a 
disciplined approach to implementing our stated 
strategy. We streamlined our business portfolio 
and activities, exiting non-core low-margin 
businesses, further improved the quality of our 
products and services and implemented self-help 
measures to increase the productivity of our own 
businesses. The result is improved profitability, 
strong cash flow and a more focused Group. This 
gives us a strong platform from which to pursue 
our growth strategy.
Group Trading Performance
Group revenue from our continuing operations 
was £1,511million, a reduction of 2.4% 
compared to 2012. Underlying revenue, 
excluding impact of exchange rate movements, 
acquisitions and disposals, declined by 0.8%. 
Trading profit for the year was £140.0 million, up 
6.6% from £131.3 million in 2012, up 10.9% 
on an underlying basis, reflecting the success of 
management’s focus on self-help initiatives in 
light of continuing weak market conditions. 
Market Trends and Business 
Performance
Our business comprises two divisions, Steel and 
Foundry, with the Steel division operated as two 
principal product lines, Steel Flow Control and 
Advanced Refractories. Divisional reports are set 
out on pages 24 to 31 of this Strategic Report.
Steel Division
After steep downturns in the steel industry in 
mid-2012, activity stabilised at those lower 
levels through the second half of 2013. Whilst 
world steel production grew by 4.8% driven 
primarily by growth in China, volumes outside 
China were flat, with year-on-year production 
reductions of 2.3% and 1.9% in the EU and 
the USA, respectively. To date, the Chinese 
steel market has been predominantly focused 
on ‘long’ products for use in infrastructure and 
construction, the production of which requires 
fewer Vesuvius products. In the coming years, 
with the evolution towards a more consumer-
driven economy, a significant restructuring of 
the Chinese steel industry is anticipated, leading 
to a greater focus on quality and performance 
rather than volume. This will require more ‘flat’ 
steel production, and with our advanced process-
enhancing solutions, we are in a very good 
position to participate in this development. 
Revenue performance in the Steel division 
remained broadly flat versus 2012, with 
the effect of disposals offsetting underlying 
growth of 1.9%. The division reported a 
6.7% improvement in trading profit, and a 
9.9% increase in underlying profits. This also 
demonstrates that the self-help initiatives and 
streamlining of the portfolio, implemented from 
mid-2012 and throughout the year, has improved 
the strength of the underlying business. 
Steel Flow Control
Steel Flow Control products supplied by 
Vesuvius include: the Viso
TM
 product range, 
which are isostatically pressed alumina graphite 
refractories; slide-gate refractories; temperature 
measurement and slag level detection; fluxes; 
and control devices to monitor and regulate 
steel flow. The majority of these products are 
consumed during the process of making steel. 
Consequently, demand for Vesuvius’ products 
is primarily linked to steel production volumes, 
with global steel representing almost 100% of 
the end-market for Vesuvius’ Steel Flow Control 
products. 
In the face of overall subdued market conditions 
outside China we delivered top line growth 
and performed ahead of the underlying steel 
production trend. We were able to do so because 
of our ability to innovate and to help customers 
improve process productivity and therefore 
extract more value from their products. This 
c hief executive’s r eview
In 2013 we have strengthened the platform from which to 
pursue our growth strategy
c hief executive’s r eview
Vesuvius plc
 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10
www.vesuvius.com 22904-04  26 March 2014 4:57 PM  Proof 2
capability is particularly valued by customers in 
periods when their focus is on quality and cost 
rather than on volume.
Underlying Steel Flow Control revenue in the 
Americas and EMEA was broadly in line with 
the underlying steel production trend. Steel 
production in the Americas was 2.1% lower 
than in 2012, with US and Brazilian steel output 
lower by 1.9% and 1.5%, respectively. In EMEA, 
steel production was 0.1% lower than in 2012, 
with a 2.4% reduction in Europe and C.I.S, more 
than ofsetting a 20.7% increase in the Middle 
East and Africa. Revenue in EMEA grew 5.4% 
despite a lack of underlying market growth, 
owing predominantly to increased sales in the 
Middle East and in the UK and strong sales of 
fluxes through Metallurgica, a recent acquisition 
which was integrated successfully in 2013.
Trading in Asia-Pacific, however, showed stronger 
progression versus 2012. Growth in the Indian 
steel market (volumes up 5.9% versus 2012), 
following the start-up of new capacity which 
uses our higher value technology solutions, and 
increased penetration of our products in South 
Korea contributed to revenue growth in Asia-
Pacific of 6.5%.
During the year we successfully commissioned 
our first robotic handling operation for Hyundai  
in Korea. This system brings reliability and speed 
to the steel production process whilst improving 
quality through a more precise and repeatable 
sequence of operations. It also enhances safety 
at our customers’ facilities by allowing them 
to isolate employees from a dangerous work 
environment.
In conjunction with this improved penetration 
of new products and solutions, the Steel Flow 
Control product line commissioned an extension 
of its successful Viso
TM
 operation at Trinec in the 
Czech Republic, and an integrated raw material 
mixing facility in Brazil. The latter will allow us 
to take advantage of local raw materials in local 
currency and to reduce our carbon footprint 
through more efficient logistics.
Advanced Refractories
The Vesuvius Advanced Refractories product 
line offers a full range of specialist refractory 
materials for lining steelmaking vessels such 
as blast furnaces, ladles and tundishes, and for 
applications in other high temperature process 
industries.
As previously outlined, a change in focus has 
been adopted for the Advanced Refractories 
product line to concentrate on more 
differentiated, higher-margin products and 
solutions. In line with this strategy, non-core 
low-margin businesses in Germany and Canada 
were disposed of in February and July 2013, 
respectively. 
Revenue in the Americas and EMEA were each 
1.8% lower than 2012, owing primarily to the 
initiative to withdraw from non-core low-margin 
business which more than offset the effect of 
increased penetration of our more specialised 
solutions. 
In Asia-Pacific, revenue was down by 8.9%, 
reflecting the impact of the disposal in 2012 
of the Andreco-Hurll construction business in 
Australia, which more than offset underlying 
growth. 
A positive development was the increased 
penetration achieved by our ELBY
TM
 ladle 
bottom, a product which allows steel makers to 
maximise the quantity of clean steel they can tap 
from a ladle before slag pollution occurs. Having 
already been well received in the North American 
market, this concept is now gaining traction in 
Europe and Asia-Pacific.
In addition, two new plants were commissioned 
in Port Kembla (Australia) and in Ras al 
Khaima (United Arab Emirates). These are now 
ramping up production and sales in line with 
expectations.
Combined, these developments clearly 
demonstrate our innovative approach, our 
focused investment, and our ability to deliver 
more engineering services to our customers 
in addition to the sale of our technologically 
advanced consumables.
Foundry Division
The Foundry division of Vesuvius, trading under 
the Foseco brand, is a world leader in the 
supply of consumable products and services 
to the global foundry industry, which produces 
castings used in a wide variety of engineered 
components. Some 40% of castings are 
produced for the vehicle sector, comprising 
approximately 25% for cars and light trucks 
(“light vehicle”) and 15% for heavy trucks. 
Other end-markets include machinery for the 
construction, agriculture and mining industries, 
power generation equipment, railroad and 
general engineering. 
The foundry market was significantly impacted 
in 2013 by the difficulties in the mining industry 
and, in particular, the reduction of investment 
spending in the extraction of hard rock metallic 
ores. This impacted sales in the USA, Brazil and 
Australia in particular. Furthermore, the truck 
and railroad markets remained stagnant, and 
the overall market in India and ASEAN was 
disappointing. However, Vesuvius’ Foundry 
division made good progress in China where our 
solutions started to gain wider adoption. 
Revenue in the Foundry division was down 7.0% 
year-on-year, reflecting the reduced end-market 
activity and the restructuring of the Fused Silica 
product line. 
Profitability, meanwhile, has improved during the 
period, with trading profit up 6.4% (12.6% on 
an underlying basis) and return on sales margin 
improving from 9.1% to 10.4%, demonstrating 
that self-help initiatives to improve flexibility, 
including stemming the losses from the Solar 
Crucibles business, have increased the division’s 
resilience to end-market cycles.
Revenues in all three regions were lower than 
in 2012, owing to the challenging end-market 
conditions seen globally across the foundry 
casting industry. 
In the Americas, despite growth in the Brazilian 
truck industry, revenue was down 8.2% 
reflecting a 3% reduction in truck production in 
NAFTA and the lower volumes experienced by 
the US railroad and mining industries.
Revenue in EMEA was 3.5% lower than in 2012, 
reflecting a 3% reduction in German light vehicle 
production and European truck production 
volumes being lower by 4% year-on-year.
In Asia-Pacific, 11% growth in Chinese light 
vehicle output was offset by a 4% and 14% 
reduction in Japanese and Indian car production, 
respectively. Additionally, the foundry sector in 
Australia was affected by the reduced investment 
in the mining industry.
We continue to mitigate the effects of these 
challenging end-market conditions through 
manufacturing efficiency programmes and 
by maintaining the strength of the division’s 
differentiated offering. 
Strategic r eport
www.vesuvius.com
11 22904-04  26 March 2014 4:57 PM  Proof 2
Construction of a new manufacturing plant 
for foundry products in ChangShu, China 
commenced during the year, with completion of 
Phase One expected in mid-2014.
In the Fused Silica product line, our glass roller 
business made good progress, benefiting from 
investments related to vehicle manufacturing in 
China and the USA. 
Self-Help Initiatives
Within an uncertain environment, we have 
retained our focus on self-help actions to 
improve our performance. We have initiated 
a focus on quality in all business segments 
across the Group. Significant improvement was 
recorded in our Chinese steel operations and 
new business was successfully initiated in Korea. 
As a result of our significant restructuring work 
the Fused Silica product line recovered from the 
substantial challenges experienced in 2012 in 
the Solar Crucibles product line.
Across the Group, specific effort was also 
dedicated to inventory reduction. Significant 
improvements were experienced across the 
business, most notably in Foundry. We look 
forward to continuing this progress in 2014. 
Together, these actions generate savings in the 
cost of handling, warehousing and rejects, and 
improve our overall productivity. 
This emphasis on self-help has been rewarded 
by productivity gains in both divisions, with 
margins progressing markedly despite the weak 
market conditions and significant headwinds 
from foreign exchange rate fluctuation towards 
the end of the year. Overall margins progressed 
from 8.5% in 2012 to 9.3% in 2013; underlying 
margins increased by 1.0%.
Our successful efforts in inventory reduction 
together with good control of receivables 
allowed us to generate a substantial level of 
cash flow, with a cash conversion rate of 107%.
Details of our programme of excellence, 
encapsulating our Lean Programme, and focus 
on quality and safety are set out later in this 
Strategic Report.
Portfolio Management and  
Capital Allocation
Our strategy, and the focus of our management 
team, is to grow those activities where we can 
develop and exploit synergies from existing 
technological and market expertise. We are also 
committed to maintaining a robust balance 
sheet, and to delivering long-term dividend 
growth for our shareholders. 
Following the demerger, we resolved to refocus 
Vesuvius on the businesses where we can offer 
a unique value proposition and differentiation 
from the competition. In May, we completed 
the disposal of the Precious Metals Processing 
division which had no fit with our core business 
of molten metal flow engineering, and which 
carried significant metal financing requirements. 
The majority of the proceeds of the transaction 
were returned to shareholders through a £30 
million share buy-back as a sign that we are 
committed to delivering attractive returns to our 
shareholders.
We sold our German brick production business, 
VGT-Dyko, in February 2013 and our Canadian 
construction business in July 2013, thereby 
increasing the focus of our Advanced Refractories 
product line on higher margin segments. 
Capital expenditure of £48 million represented 
3.2% of revenue, with the focus being on 
expanding our capacity in emerging economies 
and extending our research centres.
Health and Safety
The Board places great emphasis on the 
importance of health and safety in the workplace 
and in the communities in which we operate. We 
measure the Lost Time Incidents Frequency Rate 
as a key indicator of our performance. Safety 
is of paramount importance as our employees 
often operate in harsh environments. Whilst we 
are constantly evolving and improving our safety 
programmes, we did not achieve our targets 
in the reduction of accidents in 2013. Very 
regrettably, one of our colleagues lost his life 
in April 2013, in a work-related incident at our 
Chicago Heights, Illinois, facility. It is important 
that, at the most senior level, we formally 
acknowledge and reaffirm our objective of zero 
accidents in the workplace. Further details of our 
safety programme are set out on pages 32 and 
33 of this Strategic Report.
A Renewed Senior Management Team
The overall progress made in our first year owes 
much to the good understanding that has been 
developed between our new, focused Board of 
Directors and our widely renewed management 
team. Of the ten-strong Group Executive 
Committee, three are in their first year of tenure 
and three others have served less than three 
years in their present roles. 
This executive team is engaged in re-examining 
all our past practices and in ensuring quality, 
consistency and technology are embedded at the 
heart of everything we do. This will be central 
to our success in reinforcing and growing our 
share of our targeted market segments. In June 
2013, we launched our Group-wide plan to 
deliver a step change in our Quality performance. 
Significant progress has already been made, 
most notably in our Advanced Refractories 
product line, and within our operations in China. 
The Group’s overall strategy, reconfirmed by the 
Board in June, places particular emphasis on 
technology. A new worldwide research centre for 
Foundry is being established in Enschede, in the 
Netherlands, to be commissioned in mid-2014 
and, in October, George Coulston (PhD, MBA) 
joined the Group as Chief Technology Officer to 
drive forward this increased focus on technology 
development. We continue to focus on annual 
R&D spend as a KPI. 
Outlook 
We expect the underlying trading environment 
during 2014 to be broadly similar to that 
experienced in 2013. 
We are progressing with our plan to improve 
operational efficiency across the Group. These 
actions should continue to drive improvement 
in our trading margins and working capital 
performance in 2014.  If the recent strength of 
sterling continues it will have a negative impact 
on our reported growth in 2014.
Our primary objectives for the medium term are 
to improve margins further,  increase investment 
in research and development, sustain our global 
leadership in core businesses, grow further 
our presence in China, retain a strong balance 
sheet in order to give us financial flexibility, 
and progress our overall strategy of providing 
superior technical products and services for the 
steel and foundry industries.
François Wanecq 
Chief Executive  
4 March 2014
c hief executive’s r eview continued
Vesuvius plc
 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12
www.vesuvius.com
