 www.victrexplc.com
06 / Victrex plc / Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive’s review
Our strategy is helping to accelerate growth, transforming Victrex from its 
manufacturing and sales roots into an integrated and focused solutions partner.
Last year we communicated our evolved strategy which focuses 
on Product Leadership. Put simply, this blends our inherent technical 
excellence, marketing know-how and innovation to deliver superior 
and leading edge products and solutions for our customers and 
our markets. 
Our strategy also means that we are focused on a smaller number 
of larger and more impactful targets in the future. Rather than 
manufacturing a product and chasing every single sales opportunity, 
we will truly pioneer the development of the market for PEEK and our 
polymers. Our focused strategy will also help us to translate and sell more 
of our materials within our markets, further building on our position as 
market leader. Our strategy is supported by our significant investment 
in new production capacity, which will come online during 2015, at a 
time when the diversity and breadth of new business opportunities are 
growing, validating our decision to invest. Aligned with our technical, 
marketing and innovation strengths, our capacity will act as an enabler 
for larger business opportunities and opens the door to commercial 
discussions with a wider range of potential customers, helping to 
differentiate us from our competitors. 
Our customers continue to specify VICTREX PEEK and our polymers 
to replace metal and other polymers, and to capture a unique 
combination of performance properties, which lead to application 
benefits such as lightweighting to improve efficiency and durability, 
energy and emissions reduction; improved reliability; environmental 
tolerance; as well as faster patient recovery and clinical benefit in 
medical applications. Getting our materials specified requires detailed 
and diligent pre-development work, using our strong technical 
expertise. We have proven time and again that, once specified, we 
can build the position of our materials within ourmarkets, whether 
it be more PEEK polymers on aircraft, in cars, in smartphones, in oil 
and gas operations, or in newer and emerging medical areas. 
Over the course of the year we demonstrated that our strategy is 
helping us to drive growth and enhance value across our markets 
of Automotive, Aerospace, Electronics, Energy and Medical. Going 
forward, we will continue to move further downstream towards our 
end customers with new technologies and product forms (eg pipes, 
film), principally through organic means. We will continue to consider 
acquisitions at the right price, but only if they can accelerate our 
growth and reduce development time. All of this will broaden the 
applications for our products, an area we continue to invest in. 
In the future, we aspire to maintain our margin strength and enhance 
our profitability and shareholder value, particularly as we work 
to fill our new capacity with a diverse mix of more impactful and 
large scale business, thereby improving our medium term operating 
efficiencies. Our future growth programmes remain healthy across 
our three growth horizons, with a mix of long and short lifecycle 
business, and a focus on more impactful developments. Working 
with our customers as genuine long term solutions partners on 
development programmes will provide mutual benefits. 
By helping our customers to solve their own technical challenges 
and gain competitive advantage, we will continue to provide a 
clear point of difference for Victrex.
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 31 signed on behalf 
of the Board
David Hummel
Chief Executive
8 December 2014
A focused strategy; accelerating growth
Executive Leadership Team
