 www.victrexplc.com
04 / Victrex plc / Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s review
Strategy 
Our return to growth has been shaped by a strategy that focuses 
on larger and more impactful high volume and high value targets, 
and utilises our strong technical excellence, marketing know-how 
and innovation across our five chosen markets of Automotive, 
Aerospace, Electronics, Energy and Medical.
Victrex is the world leader in high performance polymer solutions. 
We are a global business, with UK headquarters, which continues to 
steadily transform from its historic manufacturing and polymer sales 
focus into a more integrated global solutions provider, supporting 
and working with customers on short, medium and long term 
development programmes. With our investment in significant new 
production capacity nearing its conclusion, the combination of our 
market leadership, technical excellence and sizeable manufacturing 
capability offers us a strong platform to realise Victrex’s future 
potential and to truly differentiate ourselves from our competitors. 
Results
We delivered a strong and broad based growth performance 
this year, with all of our markets performing well. Group revenue 
of £252.6m was 14% ahead of the prior year (2013: £221.9m). 
We continued our innovation and new business commercialisation 
to reflect Victrex being more than just a manufacturer; we are 
becoming a more focused solutions provider for our customers.
Our profitability and ability to invest, alongside delivering 
appropriate returns to our shareholders, remained strong this year. 
Gross margins of 64.6% (2013: 66.6%) reflected a marginally higher 
cost of manufacture in the first half – which saw improvement in 
the second half year – and a softer sales mix driven by some shorter 
lifecycle Consumer Electronics business. Our long term pipeline of 
high volume and high margin opportunities keeps us well placed 
to retain our margin strength, with a complementary mix of future 
business opportunities. As a global business and a major exporter 
from our UK manufacturing base, we are not immune to the 
challenges of foreign currency and are redoubling our focus on 
cost efficiency and appropriate pricing, to ensure we can maximise 
profitability from top line revenue growth. We believe that the medium 
term opportunities to improve in these areas remain attractive.
The strong investment in our products, in capacity and in our 
research and development (‘R&D’) capabilities to deliver technical 
excellence remains a key differentiator for Victrex, particularly as 
we move downstream into new added value products and closer 
to our customers. By working with our customers and end users, 
we are working across the value chain – producing PEEK, developing 
PEEK and pioneering the market for PEEK in new applications. R&D 
expenditure of £15.7m was ahead of the prior year (2013: £14.6m), 
representing approximately 6% of revenue.
Group profit before tax of £102.7m was 9% ahead of the prior year 
(2013: £94.6m), as was earnings per share of 94.6p (2013: 86.5p). 
As we start to see our capital expenditure reduce next year, our 
longer term cash position remains attractive. The investment in new 
PEEK and new Aptiv film capacity was underpinned by continued 
strong cash generation, with the Group’s closing cash balance reaching 
£89.6m this year (2013: £91.6m) and no debt. Overall, our balance 
sheet remains robust, underpinning investment, providing reassurance 
to customers and enabling us to deliver appropriate returns 
for shareholders.
Looking ahead, we will refine our key financial metrics to focus 
on return on sales, earnings per share, research and development 
investment and sales from new products. We will also ensure that the 
sustainable benefits our products can bring to customers are measured, 
with sustainability being embedded in everything we do. Further 
details can be found in the CEO’s Strategy and Business Model section 
on pages 7 to 9 and the Sustainability Report on pages 20 to 31.
Our clear and focused product leadership strategy has 
underpinned our strong growth performance this year 
and keeps us well placed for the longer term.
The combination of our market leadership, 
technical excellence and sizeable manufacturing 
capability offers us a strong platform to realise 
Victrex’s future potential and to truly differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors. Larry Pentz
Chairman www.victrexplc.com
Annual Report 2014 / Victrex plc / 05 
Overview
Dividends
Our continued confidence in the strength of and prospects for our 
business is reflected in our progressive and sustainable dividend 
policy, which applies to both regular and special dividends. The 
Group is proposing to pay a special dividend of 50p per share, 
which reflects our robust balance sheet and is underpinned by 
strong cash generation, even after a year of record capital 
expenditure. Alongside our special dividend is a final dividend of 
33.76p (2013: 32.65p), with cover at 2.1x (2013: 2.0x). Our medium 
term focus is to maintain cover around or above this level, thereby 
supporting a sustainable future dividend. The full regular dividend 
for the year, incorporating interim and final dividend, is 45.15p per 
share (2013: 43.0p), an increase of 5%.
Board composition
The Board has a diverse range of complementary skills to 
support the strategic and operational direction of the Group. 
We recognise the importance of diversity at Board level and our 
Board members comprise different nationalities with a wide range 
of skills and experiences from different business backgrounds, 
including international and industrial expertise. Our current female 
representation on the Board is 29%, already consistent with the 
recommended minimum representation by 2015. 
Anita Frew retired as Chairman of the Board in September 2014 and 
I would like to thank Anita for her strong and inspired leadership and 
her significant contribution during her 14 years as a Board member, 
six as Chairman. Louisa Burdett joined the Group as Finance Director 
in January 2014 and brings her diverse career experience to bear, 
helping Victrex shape its strategy and future direction as we become 
a larger and more focused international business.
Board effectiveness
The Board is responsible for the Group’s strategic development, 
monitoring achievement of its business objectives, oversight of risk 
and maintaining a system of effective corporate governance, which 
includes the responsibilities for health, safety, environmental, social 
and ethical matters. A more detailed description of the governance 
processes that are embedded in our business are provided in the 
Corporate Governance section of this report, starting on page 35.
Governance
Sound governance is critical to our business and the Board regards 
the continuing setting, maintenance and review of the highest 
standards of corporate governance as a key objective. The framework 
for our approach is supported by the Audit, Currency, Nominations, 
Remuneration, Risk and Disclosure Committees. 
For details of our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2014 see our 
Corporate Governance Statement on page 35. 
Sustainability
We have made significant progress in our approach to sustainability 
over the last two years. Sustainability for Victrex is now firmly 
embedded in our business, whether that be around our environmental 
approach and maximising our resource efficiency; or in delivering 
products and applications which support sustainability and help 
reduce CO 2 for many of our customers – for example, in weight 
reduction within aerospace or automotive. This year, Victrex also 
refined its sustainability targets and we have a clear and bold vision 
statement and targets to strive for over the coming years. Further detail 
can be found in the Sustainability Report on pages 20 to 31.
People and safety
Victrex relies on the skills, experience and competence of our people 
to drive our business into new applications and new geographies, as 
well as operating our assets to the highest standards of safety and 
with the highest regard for the environment. 
Victrex was recognised with the Order of Distinction for its Safety 
record and processes by the Royal Society for the Prevention 
of Accidents (RoSPA) this year, a strong achievement. We also 
recorded no lost time accidents, a measure of our safety practices. 
Victrex was also listed in the top ten UK companies for the quality 
of its goods and services by Management Today.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees 
for their significant contribution in a year of strong performance 
for Victrex. Whilst we face a challenging 2015, the inherent passion, 
innovation and performance of Victrex employees remain key assets 
for Victrex and its success in the future. 
Outlook
Looking forward, our new PEEK and Aptiv film capacity investments 
will put Victrex in a good position to capture more impactful and 
value creating business over the coming years. Our 2015 financial 
year has started well and although currency headwinds remain 
considerable, we now anticipate being able to fully cover the FX 
impact, reflecting our positive trading momentum and more recent 
exchange rates. With a continued focus on growth and efficiency, 
Victrex remains well placed for the year ahead.
Larry Pentz
Chairman
8 December 2014
A sustainable business: At Victrex, sustainability 
is firmly embedded in our business. We are more 
efficient with resources and deliver products which 
help our customers improve environmental performance 
