 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005
Chairman’s Statement 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DIPESH SHAH
In this, my first Chairman’s statement, I am pleased to report a
robust performance by the Group.  Our regulated businesses in
Northern Ireland have delivered strong contributions while meeting
the demands of their price controls.  Viridian Power & Energy
(VP&E) has maintained high availability from Huntstown power
station phase one (Huntstown 1) and has successfully grown its
supply position across Ireland, leading to a significant increase in its
contribution to the Group’s profits.  Powerteam has increased its
contribution through growth in its external business.  Sx3 continued
to improve margin performance and exceeded its target of a high
single digit operating profit margin.
In March, we announced the disposal of Sx3 to Northgate
Information Solutions plc (Northgate) for £155m.  The transaction,
which completed on 25 April 2005, results in a book gain of
approximately £100m in the financial year 2005/06, delivering
significant value to shareholders.  As outlined in the disposal
announcement, we intend to make a one-off return of capital to
shareholders of around £100m representing approximately 10% of
our market capitalisation.  We have decided to effect this through a
B share scheme (accompanied by a share consolidation), under
which all shareholders will be treated equally and will be able to
elect to receive their payment as a dividend or through the
redemption of B shares.
Following the disposal of Sx3 we are strongly focused on our energy
businesses in Ireland:
• Northern Ireland Electricity (NIE) - maximising the efficiency of
our regulated assets, which remain the mainstay of our
business; and
• VP&E - growing a profitable integrated energy business in
competitive markets across Ireland.
Further investment in generation is central to our strategy and we
intend to start construction of Huntstown power station phase two
(Huntstown 2) this summer.
Our goal is to deliver shareholder value through consistent
performance and sustainable dividend growth.
Financial Results
Group turnover increased by 13% from £834.2m to £943.7m
principally due to increased turnover from VP&E and NIE.
Taken together, NIE’s regulated businesses incurred a net under-
recovery of £15.8m (2004 - £9.5m) against the income to which
they were entitled under their regulatory formulae.  In line with the
treatment adopted last year (and as further explained in the
Financial Review), we have added back the impact of this under-
recovery in arriving at pro-forma profit before interest and tax and
earnings per share.
Pro-forma profit before interest and tax (based on regulated
entitlement and pre exceptional items and goodwill amortisation)
increased by 15% from £112.5m to £129.0m.  After deducting a
lower interest charge and a higher taxation charge, pro-forma
earnings per share (based on regulated entitlement and pre
exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and deferred tax) increased
by 14% to 60.8p (2004 - 53.3p).  Net debt decreased by £22.8m to
£359.9m at 31 March 2005 from £382.7m at 31 March 2004.
Dividends
A final dividend of 25.34p per share is recommended which,
together with the interim dividend of 9.84p, amounts to a total of
35.18p for the year, a 4.5% increase on last year.  This is in line with
our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across the current
Transmission and Distribution (T&D) regulatory period.
Board
I was appointed Chairman on 1 May 2005, following the retirement
of Philip Rogerson who provided the Company with seven years of
exceptional service, having joined the Board as a non-executive
director in 1998 and having been appointed Chairman in 1999.  In
February 2005, Desmond Smyth also retired from the Board, having
made an outstanding contribution to the Company as a non-
executive director for nine years.  Our thanks go to both of them for
their dedication and wise counsel.  
Employees
The Group’s strong performance is due to the commitment of our
employees.  Across the Group, they have continued to work hard,
effectively and with dedication.  This was aptly demonstrated by the
tremendous response, in very difficult circumstances, to severe
adverse weather conditions experienced in Northern Ireland this
winter.  On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees
for their valued input throughout the past year.
Looking Forward
We place the delivery of strong operating performance at the heart of
our approach to the business, as demonstrated again by this year’s
results.  Our NIE businesses are well positioned as we enter the last
two years of the current T&D price control and we are looking to
build on VP&E’s significant progress to date.  The disposal of Sx3
and associated return of capital reinforce our commitment to our
goal of delivering shareholder value, and allow us to continue to
focus on the development of our energy businesses in Ireland.
Dipesh J. Shah
17 May 2005
