 Page Four
Group Chief
Executive’s Review
Patrick Haren
This has been another year of good progress by the Group.
Pro-forma profit before interest and tax (pre under-recovery,
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation) grew from
£106.9m to £112.5m.  Increased profits from Viridian Power
& Energy and Sx3 more than offset both the net loss of
profits from the businesses we have sold and lower profits
from NIE, now at the end of the second year of the
Transmission and Distribution price control.
NIE’s Transmission and Distribution business is meeting the
challenge of its cost reduction targets while successfully
absorbing renewed pension charges.  NIE’s other businesses
continue to make important contributions; we are close to
agreeing with Ofreg an extension of the price control for NIE
Supply to March 2007 and we have begun initial discussions
with Ofreg on extensions to the price controls for Power
Procurement and SONI, which currently run to March 2005.
Viridian Power & Energy more than doubled its contribution
and is now a significant business in its own right.  Our
Huntstown plant achieved better than expected availability
and heat rate and Energia expanded its customer base in
both Northern Ireland and the RoI.
Sx3, the Group’s IT and business services company,
continued to improve its margins and profitability.  In
November 2003 we disposed of our Fleet business; this
further releases management and financial resources to
concentrate on energy activities.
Northern Ireland Electricity
Transmission and Distribution
Transmission and Distribution revenues decreased by £3.7m
due to the X factor of 5% in the price control and the
reduction in the Transmission and Distribution regulated
asset base ("RAB") associated with the Moyle transaction,
offset by unit growth and inflation.  Based on regulated
entitlement, the business made profits of £73.9m compared
to £76.2m last year, reflecting the reduction in revenues
together with renewed pension charges (£6.0m out of the
total Group charge of £12.3m) and a higher depreciation
charge, offset by reductions in operating costs.  Operating
costs were lower on a number of fronts, notably due to
reductions in staff numbers, supply chain costs, information
technology costs and premises costs.  A substantial
proportion of these cost reductions have been achieved
through ongoing rationalisation of our customer 
service centres and district work centres and a focus 
on quality of customer service delivery together with
improved productivity.
We have invested in Six Sigma training and methodology
across the Group and are using it as a mechanism for
analysing and redesigning our processes in order to achieve
improved service quality and lower costs.  We continue to
assess opportunities for lower costs while maintaining our
focus on standards of service to our customers, and have
recently launched a programme to simplify the service
delivery processes within Transmission and Distribution and
NIE Powerteam to achieve a more effective use of resources
and a clearer focus on customer needs.
Capital expenditure on the network, related customer service
systems and other non-network assets was £66.4m before
customer contributions (2003 - £61.7m).  Network capital
expenditure was in line with the regulatory allowance.   Page Five Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
The modifications to NIE’s licence required to implement the
Transmission and Distribution price control were formally
adopted in October 2003.  As part of the price control, we
have continued to work with Ofreg on incentives to invest in
demand side management projects involving renewable
energy and energy efficiency measures that may offer lower
cost alternatives to conventional network reinforcement.  To
date 17 projects totalling £1.9m have been proposed.
Power Procurement/SONI
Profitability based on regulatory entitlement from the Power
Procurement business and the transmission system operator,
SONI, reduced to £5.6m (2003 - £5.9m) reflecting renewed
pension charges offset by increased trading income.  The
current price controls for both businesses last until March
2005 and we are in preliminary discussions with Ofreg on
their extension.
In September 2003 Premier Power Limited (a member of the
BG Group) commissioned its new 600MW CCGT plant at
Ballylumford; Power Procurement has contracted for this
plant’s output until 2012, replacing contracts with existing
units on the same site.  In July 2003 Power Procurement
agreed to sell 170MW of other capacity to Electricity Supply
Board ("ESB") in the RoI through the North-South
interconnector which links the Northern Ireland and RoI
electricity systems, having contracted to purchase this
capacity from units no longer under long-term contract at
Ballylumford.  This arrangement helps to address the
capacity need in the RoI, brings a reduction in costs to
customers in Northern Ireland and provides Power
Procurement with a transaction fee. 
In September 2003 the Minister for Enterprise, Trade and
Investment announced proposals for payments of, initially,
some £30m per annum towards the high generation costs
inherited from privatisation of the generating stations in
Northern Ireland.  These payments are intended to reduce
electricity prices to industrial and commercial customers.
They are subject to EU State Aid clearance, which is
currently being sought by the Department of Enterprise,
Trade and Investment ("DETI").
NIE Supply
Profits based on regulatory entitlement in our Supply
business decreased to £5.8m (2003 - £7.8m) as a result of
renewed pension charges.  We expect to reach agreement
soon with Ofreg on an extension of NIE Supply’s price
control from April 2005 to March 2007.  This will support
further investment in the new keypad meters which have
been promoted by NIE, further investment in energy
efficiency measures and a new programme designed to
promote the development of micro-renewable generation
focused on the domestic sector.
NIE Powerteam
At NIE Powerteam, our specialist infrastructure services
business, operating profits remained flat at £2.4m (2003 -
£2.4m) reflecting increased revenues from external
contracts, offset by renewed pension charges.  Powerteam
derives most of its revenue from the Transmission and
Distribution business but increased its external sales to 
37% of total sales (2003 – 27%).  This increase was
underpinned by the award, in June 2003, of a three year
contract to refurbish up to 2,500 km per annum of ESB’s
medium voltage network, providing revenues of up to 
€18m per annum.
Viridian Power & Energy
Viridian Power & Energy increased its revenues from
£161.7m to £206.0m, with increases in both Northern Ireland
and the RoI.  The business provided a significantly higher
profit contribution of £18.3m (2003 - £6.4m) reflecting a full
year’s operation from our Huntstown CCGT plant and an
increase in profits from Energia, our competitive market
supply business.  
Huntstown
The Huntstown plant achieved availability of 93% during the
year, reflecting a good operating performance and its first
planned outage in June 2003.  We continue to assess the
opportunity for a second generating station on the
Huntstown site taking into account updated demand
projections from ESB and other factors which will affect the
future supply/demand balance.
In March 2004 the Environmental Protection Agency in the
RoI issued its final allocation plan for carbon dioxide
emissions under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.  This set
out a 74% allocation of emission credits for all generating
plant in the RoI, including Huntstown.  Our expectation is
that the net cost of the emission credit shortfall for
Huntstown will be offset by increases in RoI electricity prices,
leaving Viridian Power & Energy broadly neutral.
Group Chief Executive’s Review Page Six
Northern Ireland Supply
In Northern Ireland, Viridian Power & Energy’s turnover
increased from £64.7m to £78.1m primarily due to increased
volumes in the eligible market, an increase in prices due to
higher use of system charges and support levies and
increased sales from renewable sources.  Profits increased
from £1.6m to £3.9m reflecting increased sales volumes
together with better margins.
The Northern Ireland supply market comprises three
categories of electricity customer: large energy users ("LEU")
(approximately 750 customer sites); small to medium-sized
enterprises ("SME") (approximately 57,000 customer sites);
and some 684,000 domestic customers.
Until recently, competitive suppliers such as Energia have
only been able to access the demand of LEUs. Generation for
the competitive market is sourced across the Moyle
Interconnector with capacity on the interconnector being
auctioned annually and suppliers contracting with generators
in Great Britain.  Energia has maintained a 50% share by
volume of the LEU market.
The SME market in Northern Ireland is opening on a phased
basis during 2004 and 2005.  In April 2004 some 300
monthly-billed SMEs (which tend to be the larger users)
became eligible to participate in the competitive market.  By
the end of the financial year, all 57,000 SMEs are expected to
become eligible customers.  Energia is targeting selected
customers in this sector.
The SME market in Northern Ireland is already open to
competition for electricity supplied from renewable sources.
This market is expected to remain active for some time for
those SMEs which decide not to incur the cost of on-line
metering required to participate in the full competitive
market.  Energia has been using contracted wind farm
capacity to supply SMEs on this basis and now has customers
operating on some 2,700 sites with a capacity demand of
50MW.  DETI intends to implement a renewables obligation
scheme in Northern Ireland similar to the schemes
introduced in Great Britain.  As currently proposed, this will
require suppliers to source 6.3% of their capacity from
renewable generators by 2012.
RoI Supply
In the RoI, Viridian Power & Energy’s turnover increased
from £97.0m to £127.9m, representing increased volumes in
the eligible market supported by Huntstown’s 343MW
capacity for a full year, higher market prices following a 3%
increase in ESB’s tariffs and increased sales from renewable
sources.  Profits increased from £4.8m to £14.4m reflecting a
full year’s contribution from Huntstown together with
increased volumes and improved margins for Energia.
The RoI supply market comprises four categories of
electricity customer: LEUs (approximately 800 sites); low
voltage maximum demand ("LVMD") users (approximately
5,800 customer sites); SMEs (approximately 161,500
customer sites); and over 1.7 million domestic customers.
Up until February 2004 the competitive market in the RoI was
only open to LEUs.  Energia’s market share of the LEU sector
was approximately 30% in 2003/04, supplied by our
Huntstown plant.  In February 2004 the LVMD sector and the
larger SMEs by volume became open to competition, in total
some 11,300 customers.  The balance of the SME sector is
due to open to competition in February 2005.  Since
February 2004, Energia has sold 40MW of capacity obtained
from ESB to newly eligible LVMD and SME customers where
appropriate margins can be achieved.
As in Northern Ireland, Energia can offer electricity from
renewable sources to the SME sector in the RoI prior to
market opening and is currently supplying 2,600 sites.
Energia has used electricity derived from CHP generating
stations in Scotland imported over the Moyle Interconnector
and the North-South interconnector to meet this demand;
this source of electricity qualifies as renewable in the RoI.
There is currently no specific renewable obligation in the RoI.
In February 2004 a consultation paper was issued on the
future policy of renewables in the RoI seeking views on
options and targets.  We have submitted our response to this
consultation and await its conclusions.
Viridian Power & Energy represents a natural avenue for
growth for the Group.  Opportunities lie in further generation
in the RoI, competitive market opening in both jurisdictions
and growth in renewables across the island.  We have also
submitted a response, as part of a consortium, to the CER’s
request for indications of interest in the construction and
operation of an interconnector between the RoI and Wales. Page Seven Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
Viridian Capital
Sx3
Sx3’s profitability increased from £3.4m to £7.1m, primarily
driven by a higher contribution from its Applications
Solutions division.  Turnover reduced marginally to £117.3m
compared to £120.7m last year; turnover in the Infrastructure
Solutions division fell  but was offset by growth in other
divisions.  The increase in Sx3’s operating profit margin from
2.8% to 6.1% was driven by a greater proportion of higher
margin services, against a matching decline in product-
related sales.  Our target for Sx3 remains high single digit
operating margins.
Sx3 comprises three operating divisions:
• Applications Solutions, where we have a strong market
position through our iWorld Revenues and Benefits and
Housing applications for local government.  This division
made particularly good progress during the year in
migrating existing customers to the iWorld product set,
in winning new customers for iWorld, and in selling
other applications and services to its customer base.
• Managed Services, where we are seeking to add to our
existing contracts through leveraging off our strong
market position in the local government sector.  The
installation phase of the Classroom 2000 Lot 3 contract
is nearing completion with most of the associated capital
expenditure now spent.
• Infrastructure Solutions, which comprises our reselling
operations in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Boldon
near Newcastle.  In this division we see opportunity for a
better contribution through cost reduction and
improved efficiency.
The Sx3 management team has concentrated on enhancing
profitability and their success is reflected in these results.
Our strategy is to build on the company’s strong position 
in the public sector, maintaining our focus on operating 
profit margins.
Patrick Haren
13 May 2004
Group Chief Executive’s Review
