 Page Two
Chairman’s Statement
Philip Rogerson
The Group has delivered a good set of results.  Northern
Ireland Electricity’s ("NIE") regulated businesses continued to
meet the challenges of their price controls, maintaining their
focus on cost reductions while absorbing renewed pension
charges.  Viridian Power & Energy significantly increased its
contribution to profits reflecting a first full year of operation
from our Huntstown CCGT plant and a strong performance
from Energia.  Outside the energy sector, Sx3 further
improved its margins and profitability.
We remain committed to our well-focused strategy:
• to maximise the efficiency of our regulated assets, which
remain the mainstay of the business;
• to grow a profitable energy business in competitive
markets across Ireland; and
• to maximise the potential of our unregulated businesses
outside the energy sector.
In line with this strategy, we participated in the competition
for new generation capacity conducted in 2003 by the
Commission for Energy Regulation ("CER") in the Republic of
Ireland ("RoI").  While we were unsuccessful, we continue 
to assess the opportunity for a second station on the
Huntstown site, as well as other investment opportunities in
the energy sector.
In November 2003 we announced the sale of Fleet Solutions
(Ireland) Limited ("Fleet").  This followed the disposals of the
Moyle Interconnector in April 2003 and our shareholding in
Lislyn Limited ("Lislyn") in May 2003.  The benefits of the
disposals we have effected over the last two years are
evident both in our reported profits, with the elimination of
under-performing joint ventures and associates, and in the
strength of our balance sheet.
Financial Results
Group turnover increased by 7% from £781.2m to £834.2m.
This was principally due to increased turnover from Viridian
Power & Energy which increased revenues from £161.7m 
to £206.0m.
Taken together, NIE’s regulated businesses incurred a net
under-recovery of £9.5m against the income to which they
are entitled under their regulatory formulae.  This is a timing
issue; tariffs have been set to recover the under-recovery
during the year ending 31 March 2005.  As further explained
in the Financial Review, we have added back the impact of
under-recovery (5.0p per share) in arriving at pro-forma
earnings per share because we believe that NIE’s
performance should be assessed by reference to its
regulated entitlement.
Pro-forma profit before interest and tax (pre under-recovery,
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation) increased from
£106.9m to £112.5m despite renewed pension charges of
£12.3m.  Reduced interest and taxation charges resulted in
pro-forma earnings per share (pre under-recovery,
exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and deferred tax)
increasing by 12% to 53.3p (2003 – 47.6p).  Basic earnings
per share, which include a net exceptional credit arising from
disposals, increased to 55.9p (2003 – 39.2p).  Net debt
decreased by £139.4m to £382.7m at 31 March 2004 from
£522.1m at 31 March 2003, primarily as a result of proceeds
from the Moyle Interconnector and Fleet disposals. Dividends
A final dividend of 24.20p per share is recommended which,
together with the interim dividend of 9.46p, amounts to a
total of 33.66p for the year, a 3.5% increase on 2002/03.
This is in line with our commitment to deliver real dividend
growth across the current regulatory period.
Board
Dipesh Shah, Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Authority, and Mike Toms, Group Director, Planning
and Regulatory Affairs at BAA plc, were appointed non-
executive directors of the Company with effect from 1
November 2003.  I am very pleased that we have been 
able to attract people of such high calibre to our Board and I
have no doubt that they will make a significant contribution
to the Group.
Employees
The credit for the Group’s performance must go to our
employees.  They have worked hard, effectively and with
dedication throughout the year.  They have been equal to
the demands of constant improvement and the challenges
posed by regulation, competition and new markets and have
addressed them with commitment and enthusiasm.
Looking Forward
We place a premium on the delivery of strong operating
performance, which is key to the future of the Group; this is
demonstrated again in this year’s results.  In particular, we
are committed to realising further efficiencies and advances
in quality in our regulated businesses and are looking to
build on the significant progress Viridian Power & Energy has
made during the year.  Outside the energy sector, our
principal objective remains to improve Sx3’s margins and
enhance its profitability.
Philip Rogerson
13 May 2004
Page Three Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
Chairman’s Statement
