 Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006
Chairman’s Statement 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DIPESH SHAH
I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a very good set
of results.  Our regulated businesses in Northern Ireland have each
delivered strong performances while meeting the demands of their
price controls.  Viridian Power & Energy (VP&E) maintained high
availability from the Huntstown 1 plant, construction of Huntstown 2
has started and remains on target for commissioning in autumn
2007 and Energia continues to grow its supply position, particularly
in the Republic of Ireland (RoI).  Powerteam also increased its
contribution to the Group’s results during the year.  
In December 2005, the Northern Ireland Authority for Energy
Regulation (NIAER) published initial proposals for the next price
control for the Transmission & Distribution (T&D) business which will
be effective from April 2007 to March 2012.  The proposals reflect a
period of constructive dialogue with NIAER aimed at delivering a
price control which strengthens efficiency incentives and gives a
balanced outcome for customers and shareholders.  We expect
NIAER to issue final proposals shortly.
We realised an exceptional gain on disposal of Sx3 of £108.9m.  The
£97.9m return of capital to shareholders, announced in conjunction
with the disposal of Sx3, was successfully completed.
Our strategy is strongly focused on our energy businesses in Ireland:
• Northern Ireland Electricity (NIE) - maximising the efficiency of
our regulated assets, which remain the mainstay of our
business; and
• VP&E - growing a profitable integrated energy business in
competitive markets across Ireland.
Our goal remains to deliver shareholder value through consistent
performance and sustainable dividend growth.
Financial Results
The Group’s annual results have been prepared under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the first time, with prior
year comparatives restated.
Revenue from continuing operations increased from £835.4m to
£976.8m due to increased revenue from NIE and VP&E.
Pro-forma operating profit from continuing operations (based on
regulated entitlement) increased by 11% from £119.1m to £132.4m.
Pro-forma earnings per share from continuing operations (based on
regulated entitlement and pre deferred tax) increased by 24% to
68.2p (2005 - 55.0p), reflecting the increase in pro-forma operating
profit, a lower net finance charge and a higher tax charge as well as
the effect of the 9 for 10 share consolidation implemented with the
return of capital.  In line with the treatment adopted in previous
years (and as further explained in the Financial Review), pro-forma
operating profit and earnings per share exclude the effect of either
over- or under-recovery of NIE’s regulated entitlement. 
Net debt decreased to £310.0m at 31 March 2006 from £366.7m at
31 March 2005.
Dividends
We recommend a 5% increase in the final dividend to 26.61p per
share which, together with the interim dividend of 10.28p, amounts
to a total of 36.89p for the year, a 4.9% increase on last year.  This
is in line with our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across
the current T&D regulatory period.
Board
John Biles, formerly Finance Director of FKI plc, was appointed as a
non-executive director in August 2005.  In October 2005, he was
appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.  In March 2006,
Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure,
joined the Board as an executive director, having been a member of
the Executive Committee since 2003.  Both are already making a
significant contribution to the Board.   
Employees
I would like to highlight again the individual commitment and
performance of our employees.  The Group’s continuing success is
dependent on them.  Across the Group, they have continued to work
hard, effectively and with dedication, while implementing significant
change.  On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our
employees for their valued input throughout the past year.
Looking Forward
We place the delivery of strong operating performance at the heart of
our approach to the business, as demonstrated again by this year’s
results. Companies across the Group are preparing for the challenge
of the Single Electricity Market (SEM), the new all-island wholesale
market, in 2007.  We await the final T&D price control proposals
from NIAER.  VP&E is growing its customer base in anticipation of
the commissioning of Huntstown 2.  
Dipesh J. Shah
23 May 2006
