 2 Avocet Mining PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2007
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Avocet is one of the largest gold producing companies listed on AIM. We have
strengthened management and operational teams. We also have a robust balance
sheet, generate strong profits and cash flows, and have a defined focus on projects
in South East Asia that have the potential to expand resources and gold production
in the region. Following a review in 2006, your board will leverage off these strengths
and deliver capital growth for shareholders. 
Following his appointment last July, our new Chief Executive initiated a full review
of our assets. In November 2006 a decision was taken to sell ZGC in Tajikistan. It was
felt that this would allow the Group to focus on its producing mines in Indonesia and
Malaysia, as well as the expansion of its project portfolio in South East Asia. This
expansion includes the development of the Bakan mine and the recently acquired
Banda properties in Indonesia. Our core strengths and proven track record have 
been in South East Asia and now, following the sale of ZGC, we intend to harness
these strengths to achieve our goals and expand our business in line with our strategy
of developing a ten year reserve base.
THE WAY FORWARD
The completion of the disposal of ZGC on 9 July represents an important milestone 
for Avocet. Recent approval of the environmental impact study for the Bakan project
in Indonesia allows us to proceed with the completion of the feasibility study and
the commencement of a second mine in that country. Having disposed of our interest
in ZGC and the associated problems concerning cash costs and general operational
uncertainty that went with this asset, Avocet is well placed to expand its existing
interests in South East Asia. In addition, the recent acquisition of the Banda properties
highlights the Company’s ability to tap into significant new opportunities in its core
region of South East Asia. This is the first of many initiatives in the region.
GOVERNANCE
In my statement last year I highlighted the appointments of Jonathan Henry as 
Chief Executive Officer, Eric Vesel as Chief Operating Officer and Mike Donoghue 
as Non-executive Director. In February 2007, we welcomed Robbie Robertson to
the board as Non-executive Director. I am pleased to announce that Mike Norris, who
joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer in February 2007 from Anglo American,
has now joined the board as Finance Director. Gordon Toll has retired as a director of
the Company due to other commitments. I thank Gordon for his valuable input over
the last two years and wish him continued success in his business interests.
These changes allow the Company to remain focused on the highest appropriate level
of corporate governance, while strengthening our ability to respond to new challenges
in the areas of production, costs, health, safety and environment, employee and
community welfare and sustainable development.
• Delivery of capital
growth for shareholders
• Further strengthening 
of our Board 3 Avocet Mining PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2007
THE GOLD MARKET
We have enjoyed continuing high gold prices that have followed the trend
of commodities in general, buoyed by strong global demand and the significant
weakening of the US dollar during 2006. Following final sales in the first quarter of
12,000 ounces into our old US$312/oz hedge position, we have been exposed to spot
prices throughout the year. The collar position we entered into in January 2006 has
reduced to 210,000 ounces with put and call strike prices of US$450/oz and
US$700/oz respectively maturing at a rate of 10,000 ounces per month over the
next 21 months. We continue to monitor the situation to ensure we are well placed
to respond appropriately to changes in the gold price.
OUTLOOK
Our operating performance has seen an improving trend over the last several months,
and we are confident of further production efficiencies and cost savings at Penjom
and North Lanut. In addition, the gold price continues to trade above the average price
received of US$607/oz for the last year. Following the disposal of ZGC, which incurred
operating losses of US$4.2 million last year, we look forward to another year of
increasing profitability.
With a more focused portfolio of operations, the generation of strong cash flow,
a flexible balance sheet, and a strengthened operational team, Avocet remains
confident of being able to grow the Company significantly over the coming years.
PEOPLE
I would like to take this opportunity to recognise the hard work and dedication of all
our employees, and to thank them for their efforts over the past year. I believe they
represent our greatest asset, and I look forward to working with them in the coming
year as Avocet expands its business in South East Asia.
Nigel McNair Scott
10 July 2007
• Continuing high 
gold prices
• Improving trend in
operating performance
• Generating strong 
cash flow
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
’06 ’07 
Average realised gold price
(US$/oz)
Years ended 31 March
