 4 Avocet Mining PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2007
• Following the sale 
of ZGC, we have a 
clear focus on our 
core business in 
South East Asia
• Strong community and
government relations
• Goal of generating
significant capital
growth for shareholders
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT
Following my appointment in July 2006, we have undertaken a review of our various
business units and made changes to the way we run our business and the internal
management of those business units. I am delighted to welcome Mike Norris to
the board as Finance Director, together with a number of other senior appointments,
giving us a much stronger team to expand our business and realise a number of
exciting opportunities. I believe that following the sale of ZGC, we have a clear focus
on our core business which now consists of a pipeline of excellent projects and two
producing mines in South East Asia. Both the people and the projects, combined with
our strong balance sheet, can bring Avocet to new levels in our goal of generating
significant capital growth for shareholders through a combination of organic growth
and strategic acquisitions. We intend to be a leading mid-tier gold producer within
five years. This will come through maximising the returns on existing production,
while seeking new opportunities to generate long term earnings growth.
FOCUS ON SOUTH EAST ASIA
The decision to sell ZGC in November 2006 followed a detailed strategic and
operational review of the business following a number of years of losses and
insufficient progress in addressing certain production and cost challenges at ZGC.
The review concluded that the ZGC assets required significant investment as well
as major management input over many additional years in an area where Avocet had
little strategic advantage. As Avocet has enjoyed success in developing and acquiring
projects in South East Asia, it was decided that the prime strategy would be to focus
on the Company’s geographic strengths. Accordingly, the board decided to dispose of
ZGC and to pursue additional accretive acquisitions in South East Asia. This resulted
in the acquisition of the highly prospective Banda properties in Indonesia.  
The Banda properties represent exploration and mining rights over a combined
land position of 410 square kilometres predominantly located in North Sulawesi,
the location of the Company’s North Lanut mine and Bakan project. These properties
include advanced projects which have been reported as containing combined 
non-JORC compliant resources of 2.2 million ounces of gold. Avocet has already
commenced exploration on two of the prospects. The strong relationships that
Avocet’s management in Indonesia has developed with local communities and local
government, and the Company’s track record in building mines in South East Asia,
mean that the Company is well placed to successfully develop the Banda properties.
The review also precipitated the sale of the dormant Damar project in Malaysia 
where we have realised significant value. We have recently completed this 
transaction and now own an investment of just below 20 per cent in Monument
Mining, a TSX Venture Exchange listed company with plans to develop the Selinsing
mine, located to the south of Damar’s Buffalo Reef prospect. We are also in
discussions with a number of parties concerning the potential divestment of the
Idenburg project in West Papua, Indonesia. “Our employees are the key to our success; 
we continue to hire excellent people to supplement our
existing highly skilled and professional teams.”
5 Avocet Mining PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2007
OUR PEOPLE ARE WHAT
ALLOWS US TO SUCCEED 6 Avocet Mining PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2007
• Optimising our strategic
advantage in geographic
territories where we 
have a proven track
record and excellent
management teams
• With a strong 
balance sheet, Avocet 
is well placed to grow 
its business
0
100
200
300
400
500
’06 ’07 ’06 ’07 
Group cash cost 
(US$/oz)
As reported
Excluding ZGC
Years ended 31 March
All these transactions have been facilitated through a new corporate finance team
based in London and demonstrate Avocet’s focus on optimising its strategic advantage
in geographic territories where we have a proven track record and excellent
management teams. The Company will continue to concentrate on both operational
excellence and growth, with care taken to ensure that we remain focused on
continuous performance improvement while aggressively growing our business.
Production ounces and cash costs remain the key performance indicators. We have
taken into account the resources needed to explore fully and eventually exploit the
Banda properties, as well as other sources of growth, both organic and through
acquisitions. With a strong balance sheet and the ability to gear up due to our strong
cash flow, we remain highly flexible in broadening the project pipeline of the business. 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Group earnings were ahead of expectations. Revenue grew by 20 per cent to
US$108.2 million as a consequence of higher gold prices, while pre-tax profits grew by
43 per cent to US$22.7 million. Earnings also benefited from an exchange gain on the
translation into dollars of funds raised in sterling in May 2006, as well as from interest
on these funds. Earnings per share were up 34 per cent on last year at 13.8 cents. 
PRODUCTION AND UNIT COSTS
Gold production of 178,318 ounces was 14 per cent below the prior year. This was
principally as a result of the decision to increase the size of the Penjom pit to exploit
an increase in resources. This required waste stripping to be prioritised with the result
that the mill was fed from lower grade stockpiles. At North Lanut, unseasonal heavy
rainfall required the mine to conduct some re-engineering of the waste dumps and
storm water ponds for the dump leach, which involved equipment being diverted 
from ore production. At ZGC, production and costs were affected by increased waste
stripping from the high wall of the Jilau open pit. Overall average unit costs were
US$428/oz. Excluding ZGC, the average for Penjom and North Lanut reduces to
US$352/oz compared with US$229/oz for the prior year. This cost increase, while
primarily a reflection of lower gold production, also reflects industry-wide operational
cost increases. The gold industry has seen average cash costs increase from below
US$200/oz at the start of this decade to a reported US$317/oz for 2006 as a
consequence of higher consumable prices, including diesel, steel, tyres, reagents 
and power costs. In Indonesia, the increase in diesel costs was exacerbated by the
cancellation of government-funded fuel subsidies. In Malaysia, cash cost increases
partly reflected the impact of higher gold prices which contributed to a rise in royalties
from US$26/oz in the prior year to US$44/oz in the year to March 2007. The latter also
reflected a full year of higher royalty rates following change in Malaysian legislation 
in January 2006. The Company is committed to reducing unit cash costs to below
industry average, and steps have been made in this direction in the second half of 
the year and the first quarter of the current year. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) 7 Avocet Mining PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2007
• We continue to 
add to our excellent
management teams 
and highly skilled
workforce
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
North Lanut cash cost by quarter 
(US$/oz)
2006
2007
Years ended 31 March
At both Penjom and North Lanut, performance in the second half of the year was
significantly improved from the first half. This positive trend has continued into the
first quarter of this financial year. In 2007, efforts to improve production and reduce
unit costs will focus firstly on maximising gold ounces produced. Secondly, capital
investment at Penjom of approximately US$20 million during the current year,
to expand the pit and increase capacity through the processing plant, will help 
in achieving these objectives. At North Lanut, production will also benefit from 
the introduction of contractor Volvo articulated dump trucks capable of operating 
in wet conditions. 
PEOPLE
The buoyant mining industry demand for experienced technical personnel is an
ongoing issue which management continues to address. The Company has and
continues to put the appropriate structures in place to make Avocet a rewarding 
place to work so that any risk of lack of manpower to achieve our goals can be
avoided. We continue to hire excellent people, to supplement our existing highly
skilled and professional teams, as the business expands in South East Asia.
Jonathan Henry
10 July 2007
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Penjom cash cost by quarter
(US$/oz)
2006
2007  
Years ended 31 March 8 Avocet Mining PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Gold price 
US$/oz
US$
index
500
550
600
650
700
750
Trade weighted US dollar exchange rate
Gold price
Apr ‘06 May‘06 Jun ‘06 Jul‘06 Aug ‘06 Sept ‘06 Oct‘06 Nov ‘06 Dec ‘06 Jan ‘07 Feb‘07 Mar ‘07 Apr ‘07 May‘07 Jun ‘07
0.80
0.81
0.82
0.83
0.84
0.85
0.86
0.87
0.88
0.89
0.90
Gold price London AM fix – 1 April 2006 to 30 June 2007
