 Chief Executive’s strategy review
06 Vislink plc report and accounts 2007
1 Invest and grow 
market share in our
broadcast markets 
3 New sales offices set-up 
in Dubai
3 New service centres established 
3 New HD products were
instrumental in maintaining
market share
2 Develop our defence, 
law enforcement and
security markets
3 Established a dedicated
International DLES sales
organisation
3 MRC secured milestone
helicopter video downlink
orders from several large
US municipalities and
international security agencies
3 Developed a new flyaway
product line to address 
global military satellite
communications system
requirements
3 Remain the leader in our
marine CCTV markets
3 Hernis invested further in 
their successful Far East sales
and support hub
3 Hernis won their first orders
from the rapidly growing
Chinese shipbuilding industry
3 Hernis opened a sales office 
in Houston, USA
4 Invest in developing
products and services 
for our chosen markets
3 Continued investment in HD
encoding and advanced high
data rate modulation systems
to build on the Group’s IPR
advancing our technology
leadership
3 The introduction of Cellular
and Diversity receiver systems
are changing the way
broadcasters approach
electronic news gathering
3 Hernis secured the
manufacturing and marketing
rights for the WPC explosion
proof safety flashlight 
product line
5 Seek out earnings
enhancing acquisitions
3 Acquired WTS, a US West
Coast broadcast and law
enforcement professional
services business
Our strategy in action 2007
We remain committed to our
strategy of increasing shareholder
value through organic growth 
and acquisitions. 07 Vislink plc report and accounts 2007
01-03
Vislink at a glance
04-05
Introduction
06-07
Strategy review
08-13
Global markets
14-23
Operating and financial review
25-36
Directors’ report
38-85
Accounts
86-93
AGM notice/shareholder information
Intrinsically safe marine CCTV systems market leadership
Sales into the marine safety market through our Norwegian business,
Hernis, represent 16 per cent of Group revenue. The strategy for
Hernis is to maintain its close relationship with the oil and gas
companies, ship owners and ship builders around the world. 
With regional offices in Brazil, Houston and Singapore, Hernis is well
positioned to service its global customers and maintain its market
leadership through product innovation and highly effective channel
management. The current strong oil price will continue to sustain
high levels of investment into offshore exploration and marine
transportation and related loading facilities. This will sustain growth 
in the offshore and marine markets for Hernis. 
We will continue to invest in the facilities in Norway to meet the
growth in the business. Our investment in Wireless Power and
Communications A/S (WPC) (an associate company) is providing
Hernis with new products based on the application of induction
charging and data transfer technology for the marine safety market.
The first products will enter production in the first half of 2008.
Evolving our products and service capability 
We have continued our investment in the development of HD
encoding and advanced high data rate modulation systems to
maintain our market leading technology and market share. 
We will continue to invest in the application of new technologies,
with increasing use of software-driven products, to meet our
customers’ requirements for more automation and integrated 
field upgradable systems. In order to support our products we 
have established service centres in Hong Kong and South America 
for the RF businesses and in Brazil and Singapore for Hernis. 
We have implemented a unified corporate level product strategy
across the related RF businesses of Advent, Link and MRC under the
guidance of the Chief Technology Officer. We have also formed a
strategic Technology Committee with senior management from each
business to maintain a focus on our strategic development direction
and to review competing and complementary technologies.
Earnings enhancing strategic acquisitions
Part of the Group strategy is to create incremental long term
recurring revenue opportunities by building a US Technical Services
business through organic and acquisition led growth. The acquisition
of Western Technical Services (“WTS”) in July 2007 is enhancing
service revenues from the 2GHz re-channelisation programme 
and the DLES markets, as well as providing the prospect of recurring
revenues as the broadcast customers move towards contracted 
out fee services. This provides the Group with a stepping-stone
towards being able to provide full “turnkey” project management
and integration services in the US, utilising the strength of our 
market leading products.
Summary
In 2007 we acquired WTS to establish a Technical Services business 
in the US market that will be supplemented with organic growth. 
We have increased our investment in new products and channels 
to market in order to deliver our growth strategy across our 
target markets. The Group is moving towards meeting its 
strategic objectives.
Ian Scott-Gall
Chief Executive 
Introduction
We remain committed to our strategy of increasing shareholder
value through organic growth and acquisitions. The strategy will be
delivered through our focus on our strategic objectives, which are to: 
1. Maintain market leadership in the television broadcast contribution
technology segment
2. Establish a global presence by providing high quality wireless
transmission systems for defence, law enforcement and 
security markets
3. Remain the world leader for the provision of intrinsically safe
marine CCTV systems
4. Evolve our products to meet the specific needs of our 
growth markets
5. Seek out earnings enhancing acquisitions. 
Our strategy in action
Broadcast market leadership
Broadcast sales represent 74 per cent of Group revenue. In the US 
we have maintained a market share in excess of 60 per cent in the
television broadcast contribution market. Over the last three years
this sector of the market has been dominated by the 2GHz BAS
relocation programme. The FCC has now agreed to extend 
the programme to March 5, 2009. The programme, which has 
expanded in total value, will provide a significant contribution 
to 2008 revenues. The programme has to move rapidly into 
the implementation phase to meet this deadline and this creates 
further opportunities for us to grow revenues in our US technical
services business. 
Outside of the US we are seeking to increase our international
presence by developing sales channels to growing Middle and 
Far Eastern markets through regional sales offices. We already 
have offices in Singapore and Hong Kong and in January 2008 
we opened a regional office in Dubai. We expect to increase 
our market share by capitalising on the potential for equipment 
upgrades to high definition (HD) and high data rate IP systems.
Developing the DLES markets
DLES sales currently represent 10 per cent of Group revenue. 
We will grow our DLES markets through increased investment 
in our products and sales channels. During 2007 a dedicated
international DLES team was established and the existing US 
team was strengthened.
Our product development programme included new satellite
products to meet the specific needs of the market that will enter
production in the first quarter of 2008. The development of this
market has been slower than we had wished and sales opportunities
will start to flow in the second half of the year.
In the US we have a good track record in the LES market with steadily
increasing sales. We have strong relationships with city and state
police forces as well as with the National Guard. We are succeeding 
in developing the growing airborne digital video surveillance market;
MRC secured milestone helicopter video downlink and receive
systems orders from several large US municipalities and international
security agencies. In addition a US network of specialist defence 
value added resellers has been set-up. 
