 Chief executive’s review
2003 proved to be a challenging year, but one in
which Vitec made significant steps forward on its
‘Consolidate-Leverage-Grow’ strategy.
to concentrate Bury St Edmunds on the more complex Broadcast
products, with Cartago concentrating on higher volume lines. In 
Italy we have re-organised a number of manufacturing facilities and
processes. Further simplification will be possible following the sale
of ALU, allowing us to run the core facilities there more effectively.
In addition, the entire Drake business also relocated from Welwyn
Garden City to a better-suited site on the Research Park outside
Cambridge, UK.
During the year the Photographic business rolled out a new integrated
IT system to most of its main locations and the Broadcast Systems
IT system was extended to the Cartago site and the Radamec
Broadcast and Vinten Inc sales offices. These systems will greatly
improve the information available to managers, and speed up
decision-making and production planning. The integrated IT system
within Broadcast Services is allowing them to better manage their
rental assets, reducing the need for capital and giving better control
over subrentals.
Taken together, the plant reorganisation and the IT implementations
have inevitably been disruptive. These initiatives have been well
managed and provide the cornerstones for Vitec’s future.
Top line growth generated Whilst the emphasis was on ‘Consolidate
-Leverage’ during 2003, considerable progress was also made in
resuming top line growth. Despite a difficult market, revenue from
continuing operations grew 3.6% during 2003: Broadcast Services
was lower due to the non-repeat nature of the 2002 FIFA World
Cup, but this was more than offset by increases in the other Divisions.
08 The Vitec Group
As underscored in our Half Year Results statement, 2003 proved to
be a challenging year, but one in which Vitec made significant steps
forward on its ‘Consolidate-Leverage-Grow’ strategy.
This strategy involves taking out costs by exploiting our scale, improving
our performance through better use of group-wide manufacturing
and IT systems, and looking to generate growth by focusing our
engineering and marketing resources on those areas where growth
can be achieved. Solid progress has been made on all these fronts,
although there is more to do.
Whilst we expect to show organic growth through the new product
platforms and the improved distribution network, there remains an
avenue for growth through acquisition in what is still a fragmented
industry. With significant progress in manufacturing, division-wide 
IT systems and a management team focused on delivering growth,
Vitec is now able to add value to acquired businesses in a way that
it could not in the past.
Manufacturing restructuring delivered With our markets well below
the peak of 2000, and with lower demand for the more complex
studio infrastructure products, the high operational gearing within
our Broadcast businesses was a handicap. The focus in 2003 was,
therefore, on ‘Consolidate-Leverage’. Lower cost manufacturing is
vital to counter the effects of the ongoing trend to smaller cameras
and tripods within the lightweight sector of the broadcast market. 
To drive manufacturing efficiencies we closed four plants and
upgraded the facilities in Bury St Edmunds, UK and Cartago, Costa
Rica (located in a local Zona Franca). We have taken the opportunity Photographic sales were up on the back of some successful product
launches at the end of 2002 and throughout 2003, and Retail
Display benefited from a large US order, albeit at lower margins than
in the past. The lighting truss business, Litec, has seen growth from
the adoption of its new temporary lighting gantry and roofing products.
Bogen, the distribution arm, went from strength to strength in the
US, with a number of exciting new lines, including Kata camera bags.
In Broadcast Systems, while the net growth came from the acquisitions,
there was increased volume in lightweight camera support and useful
sales increases at Anton/Bauer and Clear-Com, both US-based, and
at Sachtler.
It was very pleasing that Vitec companies continued to pick up
awards for innovative new products at the major tradeshows: Drake,
Clear-Com, Vinten, Anton/Bauer and Bogen were all recognised 
for their technical leadership during 2003. These awards are not
ends in themselves, but are encouraging pointers to future revenues
as and when broadcast budgets revive. Drake was also successful 
in securing a number of significant intercoms orders for Air Traffic
Control projects. The first of these was delivered in late 2003, and
will be commissioned in early 2004, and we are learning more about
the market from each one. As we won more orders than expected,
R&D expense was increased to take advantage of these opportunities.
09
Bexel rents out complete HD systems for
prime time sitcoms, movies, commercials
and other "film-style" productions. 
This HD camera is powered by an
Anton/Bauer battery and controlled using 
an OConnor head - both Group products.
At the end of 2003 we opened a sales office for the Broadcast
companies in Beijing to serve the local Chinese TV stations as they
prepare for the Olympics in 2008.
The growth in high definition programming has been exploited by
Bexel, who have provided equipment and technical support for
several new TV shows.
Executive team The Executive Board has been joined by Joop
Janssen and Francesco Bernardi. Joop, who took over the Broadcast
Systems Division in June 2003, has spent most of his career in
broadcast at Thompson and Philips in product development and
business management roles. Following the sale of ALU, Francesco
Bernardi was promoted to lead Gruppo Manfrotto, having been its
Sales and Marketing Director. His background is in international
marketing.
