 2010 saw the recovery of our core target markets from the depressed 
performance of 2009, the full year benefit of the cost savings initiated  
in 2009, and strong strategic execution of our three market strategy  
launched in October 2009.
A focused approach to growth
Financial performance
In 2010 Vitec saw solid growth from a 
combination of recovery in the photographic 
and broadcast markets from 2009 and the 
launch of new products across the Group.
Revenue at organic constant exchange 
rates increased by 4.3%; reported revenues 
declined by 1.7%, to £309.6 million  
(2009: £315.1 million) reflecting the 
disposal of Clear-Com in April 2010,  
and IFF in 2009. Revenues were boosted 
by strong growth in the photographic  
and broadcast markets throughout the 
year which offset the expected impact  
of the end of the Broadcast Auxiliary 
Services (BAS) contract that reduced 
revenue in Videocom.
Reported operating profit* increased by 
13.1% to £27.7 million (2009: £24.5 million), 
with organic growth of 3.2% at constant 
exchange rates. The 2009 cost saving 
initiatives delivered the expected annual 
benefit of £22 million in 2010 (2009:  
£17 million). The operating margin 
increased to 8.9% (2009: 7.8%). Reported 
Group profit before tax* increased by 17.6% 
to £26.7 million (2009: £22.7 million),  
or 6.9% in organic growth at constant 
exchange rates. Underlying Group Basic 
EPS* was up 14.8% at 41.9p (2009: 
36.5p); Group Basic EPS after significant 
items was 42.8p (2009: 7.5p).
Cash generation was good, with free cash 
flow of £18.0 million (2009: £22.7 million), 
representing a cash flow conversion 
(before interest, tax and restructuring) 
of 93% (2009: 141%). This is after the 
start-up working capital investment (mainly 
inventories) for the Manfrotto Powerbrand, 
for which the first sales are due in the first 
half of 2011. Continuing working capital 
control resulted in a further reduction of 
the working capital to sales percentage to 
16.2% (December 2009: 16.4%). The year 
also benefited from tax rebates in Germany 
and USA relating to prior years, reducing net 
tax paid to £0.9 million (2009: £4.3 million). 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
*  Before significant items. Significant items are those items of financial performance that the directors  
consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying trading and  
financial performance achieved by the Group (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Accounts 2010).
The Group’s balance sheet has 
strengthened. Our Net Debt / EBITDA  
ratio was reduced to 0.7 times  
(31 December 2009: 1.0 times) with  
Net Debt at 31 December 2010 reduced  
to £28.1 million (31 December 2009:  
£40.6 million) and drawings under our 
£125 million committed banking facility 
(which extends to August 2013) reduced 
to £34.8 million, or 27.8% (31 December 
2009: 42.2%).
Three market strategy
Following the launch of our new three 
market strategy in October 2009 we 
started to execute against this new 
strategic direction in 2010.
1 Broadcast and video
Vitec has leading brands in the broadcast 
and video market which comprises 
products and services aimed at television 
networks and production (broadcast), 
corporate, religious and educational 
markets (video).
In the broadcast sector we have continued 
to maintain our premium market position 
and share as this market recovered 
strongly in 2010. In the video sector we  
are developing products focused on the 
needs of the independent cameraman.  
We have successfully launched a new 
range of environmentally friendly LED lights 
for the studio customer (see page 38).
2 Photographic
Vitec has traditionally supplied its 
accessories (tripods, bags, heads 
and lighting supports) to professional 
photographers. In 2010 we continued 
to develop breakthrough products for 
this user group. We have also, however, 
developed products aimed at new 
04          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 consumer sectors among non-professional 
users and at Photokina in September 2010 
we launched a full range of tripods, bags, 
lighting and clothing aimed at these users. 
The response from customers and retailers 
has been extremely encouraging.
3 Military, aerospace and government 
(MAG)
Having established our microwave 
technology as the brand leader in the 
US broadcast market we have leveraged 
this technology into the MAG market. We 
have had success in winning significant 
orders particularly in the law enforcement 
area and customer reaction confirms our 
technology is world leading.
Product development
We continue to invest in our development 
processes to improve the time to  
market of new products and to invest  
in research, development and engineering 
in support of our businesses. After 
adjusting for capitalised expenditure 
of £1.5 million (2009: £0.6 million) and 
expenditure incurred in the disposed  
Clear-Com business of £0.5 million  
(2009: £2.4 million), research, development 
and engineering expenditure on a like  
for like basis was £10.8 million (2009:  
£10.7 million) representing 4% of  
Group product sales (2009: 4%).
A global company
In addition to strategic product and market 
developments, the Group expanded its 
global reach with the opening of our new 
photographic distribution businesses 
in Hong Kong and China and our office 
in Sao Paulo, Brazil, ready for the 2014 
FIFA World Cup and the 2016 Olympics, 
bringing the number of countries where 
the Group has a direct presence to 14. 
We have manufacturing facilities in lower 
labour cost countries such as Costa Rica, 
Slovakia and Mexico and outsourced 
operations in China. In total, the Group 
now has sales in over 100 countries.  
We consolidated our IMT operations into 
one facility in New Jersey, USA and the 
non-production elements of our Imaging 
business into one site in Bassano, Italy. 
Cost reductions
The cost reductions implemented in  
2009 yielded their full potential, delivering 
£22 million (2009: £17 million) of cost 
savings in 2010. This helped contribute 
to a stronger operating margin of 8.9% 
(2009: 7.8%) as we gained good operating 
leverage from the increased volume.
Collaboration
I am delighted at the increased 
collaboration across the Group. Examples 
include the use of Litepanels’ technology 
to develop LED lights for the photographic 
market under the Manfrotto brand and the 
launch of the Vitec Ambassador Program, 
a series of events organised and managed 
by the Services Division designed to 
expose live event producers to the broad 
range of Group products from across all 
business units and divisions.
Acquisitions and disposals
Consistent with our purpose to provide 
products and services that support 
the capture of exceptional images, we 
divested our audio business, Clear-Com 
to HM Electronics for consideration of 
approximately £8.8 million and a profit  
on disposal of £2.2 million.
Environmental products
Our Litepanels products are helping our 
broadcaster customers tackle global 
warming. LED studio lighting delivers up 
to 95% energy savings over traditional 
lighting and our Litepanels range is the 
market leader in this technology. A single 
studio which adopts our LED technology 
can save 200,000 pounds of CO
²
 entering 
the environment annually. 2010 saw a 
substantial increase in Litepanels sales 
to the broadcast and film industries. Yet 
only a small portion of studios worldwide 
currently utilise LED’s so we have great 
opportunities in 2011 to grow this business 
and make a significant contribution 
towards reducing the industry’s carbon 
footprint via our environmentally 
sustainable lighting products. 
Stephen Bird
Group Chief Executive
3 2 1
MAG
market
photographic
market
broadcast
& video
market
3
market
strategy >
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          05 06          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
3
market
strategy
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
Broadcast & video market 1
Building within the
Vitec currently supplies this market with a variety of accessories for the 
video camera. These include camera supports, bags and teleprompters; 
batteries and chargers; microwave systems; and LED lighting. These 
products are primarily used in the acquisition and capture segments of  
the broadcast production chain.
The market
The broadcast & video market comprises 
products and services sold into two main 
sectors:
•		 Br oadcast	–	used	primarily	in	television	
and film production. The end customer 
is often a television network, or systems 
integrator acting on their behalf, or an 
independent production company.  
We estimate the market for Vitec’s 
products and services was worth  
around £430 million in 2010.
•		 V ideo	–	used	in	video	pr oduction	wher e	
the end customer is not a broadcaster 
but a corporate, educational, religious, 
legislative or live event entity or an 
independent videographer. We estimate 
the market for Vitec’s products and 
services was worth around £120 million 
in 2010.
The market drivers
Advertising
In the broadcast sector, advertising is the 
main source of revenue for commercial 
broadcasters. Television remains the  
largest advertising medium and is forecast  
to grow 6% per annum from 2011 until 2013.
HD transition and 3D 
The HD transition in the broadcast sector 
has led to television studios and outside 
broadcast trucks being upgraded to handle 
HD cameras and signals. This process still 
has some way to go with around half of the 
installed base of cameras still needing to 
be upgraded. 3D has emerged recently as 
another opportunity for further demand for 
Vitec’s products as new, heavier supports 
are required for 3D cameras.
Proliferation of video creation and 
consumption
Cost-effective production technologies, 
the increase in video-enabled broadband 
and mobile devices, and the growth in 
independent content producers and 
owners are all factors that have expanded 
the number of people producing high 
quality video. This is no longer the preserve 
of broadcasters, as corporate, religious 
and educational establishments and other 
entities produce their own content and 
thus require accessories which we supply.
Vitec market position
Supports 
With our multiple brands, Vitec has the 
premium position and largest market share 
in camera supports in both the broadcast 
and the video sectors. 
Mobile power 
Anton/Bauer remains the leading brand, 
with a number one position in the after-
market for camera batteries and chargers  
in the broadcast sector.
Microwave systems
Our three businesses had the leading 
position in the final stages of the now 
completed BAS relocation project in the 
US broadcast sector. They also occupy the 
number one position in the US video sector, 
where the equipment is used in sports and 
entertainment venues.
LED lighting 
Litepanels led the way in the adoption 
of LED lighting, especially in ‘on location’ 
shots in the broadcast sector and in the 
video sector. As LEDs become more 
powerful, Litepanels will be able to supply 
an increasing number of television studios 
in the broadcast sector as well.
LED lighting
LED lighting is leading the way in transforming the 
way HD video is shot. The ability to control precisely 
lighting characteristics and in-built features, 
together with energy savings over traditional 
lighting, will ensure continued growth in LEDs.
Broadcast robotics
Broadcast robotics provide cost-effective solutions 
in a wide variety of applications, from simple one 
or two camera studios, to complex networks. 
The latest commercial implementation of Vinten 
Radamec’s total robotic solutions include Sky.  Vitec Group products are ready to meet the challenges of supporting Stereographic  
3D (S3D) camera systems. High capacity fluid heads from industry-leading brands 
OConnor, Sachtler and Vinten easily handle the many possible camera system 
configurations for shooting in S3D and provide smooth movement essential for  
real-time 3D broadcast.  
Key strategies
Vitec has leading brands in the broadcast & 
video market. Our strategy is to maintain our 
premium product offerings and market share 
in the broadcast segment whilst developing 
specific products and new channels  
focused on the needs of the independent 
cameraman in the video segment.
Growth opportunities in the broadcast &  
video market will come from:
•		 LED	lighting	(wher e	the	energy	saving	 
over traditional lighting is significant);
•		 Business	and	industry	applications	for	 
our existing products;
•		 Micr owave	systems	(outside	the	US	 
using our global presence); and
•		 Robotics	(as	video	pr oduction	 
becomes more automated).
Progress during 2010
During 2010, we have: 
•		 L a u n c h e d 	 S o l a 	 L E D 	 F r e s n e l 	 l i g h t s , 	 a 	 m a j o r	
new product family that expands the 
addressable market for LEDs into major TV 
studios for the first time and delivers up to 
95% energy savings over traditional lighting; 
•		 S e c u r e d 	 a 	 m a j o r 	 o r d e r 	 f o r 	 I M T 	 H D 	 m i c r o w a v e	
systems with a Russian sports broadcaster; 
•		 Developed	a	range	of	video	accessories	
to support hybrid DSLRs and compact 
camcorders aimed at business and  
industry applications; and
•		 W on	significant	or ders	for	the	new	V inten	
Radamec robotics range including at  
Sky’s Harlequin facility, West London  
and Alberta Parliament. 
Paul Vickerage
Head of Studios, Sky Italia regarding their 
installation for the Vancouver Winter Games
“This is a great example of 
true collaboration between 
broadcaster and supplier. 
We have worked together 
in partnership with Vitec, 
Litepanels and Trans Audio 
Video to achieve this solution.”
Our world-class brands
Bags 
Kata
Petrol
Equipment 
Rentals
Bexel
The Camera Store
Lighting
Anton/Bauer 
Litepanels 
Sachtler 
Microwave 
Systems 
MSC  
Nucomm  
RF Central 
Mobile Power 
Anton/Bauer
Prompters 
Autoscript
Supports
Avenger 
Manfrotto
OConnor
Sachtler 
Vinten 
Vinten Radamec
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          07 08          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
Photographic market 2
Snapping up interest in the
Vitec currently supplies this market with a variety of accessories for the 
photographic camera. These include tripods, bags and lighting supports 
manufactured by Vitec, plus third party products (flashes and lighting 
controls such as umbrellas and reflectors) distributed by Vitec. In future, 
the range of accessories made by Vitec is likely to expand to include other 
items such as LED lights under the Manfrotto brand name.
The market
The photographic market comprises 
products sold into two main sectors:
•		 P r o f e s s i o n a l 	 – 	 w h e r e 	 i m a g i n g 	 a c c e s s o r i e s	
are sold to a photographer whose 
business is taking photographs for a 
living. We estimate that the professional 
sector for the imaging accessories 
supplied by Vitec was worth some  
£380 million in 2010.
•		 Non-pr ofessional	–	wher e	imaging	
accessories are sold to photographers 
who have a keen interest in photography 
or simply want to record images. We 
estimate that the non-professional sector 
for the imaging accessories supplied  
by Vitec was worth some £470 million  
in 2010.
The market drivers
Digital SLR unit sales 
In recent years, digital SLR unit sales  
have been driven by the professional 
sector, as photographers have moved from 
analogue to digital cameras. For the next 
few years, this sector will continue to enjoy 
moderate growth, driven by innovation 
such as the ability to shoot high definition 
video. The non-professional sector is 
growing more quickly, driven by a new 
generation of consumers upgrading to 
digital SLR cameras, which are becoming 
simpler and cheaper. The Camera and 
Imaging Products Association (CIPA),  
the trade association of Japanese camera 
manufacturers, forecasts volume growth  
of DSLRs in 2011 of 20% over 2010.
Technology and social trends 
Digital technology is facilitating the growth 
of photography as a hobby. Image sharing 
is becoming more accessible and popular, 
and social networking internet sites have 
enabled images to be easily transferred 
among users. In addition, there is an 
increasing take-up of photography as a 
record of images, especially by women.
Vitec market position
Supports 
With its Manfrotto and Gitzo brands,  
Vitec has the premier brands in 
photographic camera supports in both  
the professional and non-professional 
sectors. With our high quality and 
innovative products, we are the clear 
leader in terms of market share (by value).
Bags 
Currently sold under the Kata name 
and, under licence, under the National 
Geographic name, Vitec’s brands are 
gaining share in this large product  
category. Further growth in market share is 
expected as a result of using the Manfrotto 
brand in this product category as part of 
our strategy for the photographic market. 
Lighting
This comprises lighting supports and LED 
lighting. In lighting supports, which are 
predominantly used in the professional 
sector, the Manfrotto brand is the market 
leader. Sales of LED lighting into the 
photographic market are in their infancy  
as the industry continues to rely on 
traditional lighting technologies.  
Vitec currently also distributes third  
party flashes and lighting controls.
3
market
strategy
Manfrotto joystick 
heads which won a 
TIPA award in 2010.
The very first 
dedicated  
HDSLR backpack. The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          09
Manfrotto Powerbrand
The Manfrotto brand capitalises on 40 years of experience in the professional photo 
and video accessory markets. It is now launching new consumer-friendly products 
across multiple categories to help people express their creativity by making qualitative 
digital image capturing easier and more fun, whatever their level of technical expertise.
Key strategies
In the photographic market, our strategy  
is to maintain our premium market  
position among professional and hobbyist 
photographers whilst leveraging the 
Manfrotto brand to enter new faster-
growing segments among  
non-professional users. 
Progress during 2010
During 2010, we have:
•		 Launched	a	fully	integrated	range	of	
products targeted at new entry level 
DSLR users consisting of over 100 new 
products comprising supports, bags, 
LED lights and apparel;
•		 Developed	the	first	range	of	Manfr otto	
LED photographic lights, to be delivered 
in the first half of 2011; 
•		 P r e s e n t e d 	 a 	 f u l l 	 r a n g e 	 o f 	 n e w 	 b a g s 	 u n d e r	
both the Manfrotto and Kata brands 
targeted at professionals and hobbyists, 
as well as a new Manfrotto range aimed 
at the non-professional segment and  
the new National Geographic “Africa” 
range; and
•		 Pr esented	the	integrated	range	of	
products to major buyers in the 
photographic market - traditional 
speciality stores, consumer electronics 
stor es	and	e-tailers	–	with	sales	expected	
to begin in the first half of 2011.
Our world-class brands
Supports
Avenger
Gitzo
Manfrotto
Bags
Kata
Manfrotto
National Geographic*
*  Manufactured and distributed under licence
Joe McNally
Professional photographer
“I use Manfrotto stuff because I 
can count on it. Whether it’s digital 
imaging, camera supports, video… 
you know it’s changing, but if you 
want to keep communicating 
visually, you have to keep adapting.” Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
3
market
strategy
MAG market 3
Signalling intent in the
Vitec currently supplies the military, aerospace and government (MAG) 
market with a variety of equipment. However, our primary focus in 
the future will be the supply of microwave equipment. This currently 
comprises transmitters and receivers manufactured by Vitec,  
(which enable video signals to be sent wirelessly for up to 30 miles) 
together with antennae and amplifiers manufactured by third parties.
The market
The MAG market comprises products sold 
into the following main sectors:
• 	 	 Law	enfor cement	–	wher e	micr owave	
equipment is sold to police forces and 
other similar agencies to enable them 
to receive and transmit video signals 
from, for example, helicopters to mobile 
command centres and ground patrols; 
and
•		 Military	vehicles	–	wher e	micr owave	
equipment is used in both manned and 
unmanned applications to recognise  
and assess threats more effectively. 
We estimate that the global MAG market 
for the microwave equipment currently 
supplied by Vitec was worth some  
£550 million in 2010.
The market drivers
Law enforcement 
The ability of police forces to assess 
situations and thus act accordingly is 
enhanced by the use of video, for example 
during disasters or crowd control. Another 
major driver of growth will be the supply 
to various US agencies with surveillance 
equipment over the next three years.
Military vehicles 
The main growth drivers in this sector are:
•		 Incr eased	use	of	unmanned	vehicles,	
whether in the air, on the ground or in 
the water to minimise loss of human life 
when assessing potential threats; and 
•		 Incr eased	situational	awar eness	 
for armed forces in manned vehicles  
(for example, in convoys), where video 
enhances the ability to deploy troops 
more effectively.
IMT’s ruggedized COFDM 6-way diversity portable 
receiver/monitor.
IMT’s New Head Office at Mount Olive.
10          The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Law enforcement 
Under the IMT brand, Vitec is leading technology development in the ever-
increasing video quality, robust and low-latency transmission, and secure 
encryption demands in mission critical applications, such as police surveillance.
Key strategies
In the MAG market, our strategy is to 
leverage our microwave technology 
developed in the Broadcast market.  
We continue to see opportunities for  
our range of transmitters and receivers in 
military and law enforcement applications. 
Overall defence budgets are under 
pressure but demand for intelligence, 
surveillance and reconnaissance 
equipment remains a priority: 
•		 In	law	enfor cement	wher e	our	pr oducts	
help police authorities improve their 
situational awareness (e.g. crowd control) 
and surveillance where our miniature 
products assist national agencies in 
covert operations; and
•		 In	military	vehicles	wher e	our	video	
technology can be used in unmanned 
applications to assess threats and to 
minimise loss of human life.
Progress during 2010
During 2010, we have:
•		 W on	two	or ders	fr om	the	US	 
Department of Justice (Auction 66)  
worth $10.8 million of which one  
third was shipped in 2010; 
•		 Secur ed	further	law	enfor cement	
contracts with Pennsylvania State 
Police and Los Angeles County Sheriff’s 
Department Airborne Unit;
•		 Continued	pr oduct	development	with	
miniaturised HD transmitters/receivers 
and MPEG4 video compression; and
•		 Consolidated	operations	into	a	new	
purpose built facility in New Jersey.
Vitec brands for the MAG market
Microwave Systems 
IMT
“IMT is in the midst of supplying and installing aviation microwave 
downlink systems for the State’s fleet of helicopters. The customised 
downlink solution will enable uninterrupted broadcast of live aerial 
images which will provide an Incident Commander at the scene of 
an emergency with invaluable real-time information for situational 
awareness. With the fixed site IP backhaul capabilities, we can 
eventually offer real-time video of emergency situations to the  
911 centres across the State providing them with an invaluable 
resource which they could never afford on their own.”
Charles Brennan | Deputy Secretary
Pennsylvania State Office of Administration
Public Safety Radio
The Vitec Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010          11
