 Chairman’s statement
2003 saw progress on a number of fronts as we continued to
reshape the business and position it for future growth.
2003 saw progress on a number of fronts as we continued to reshape the
business and position it for future growth. Our Broadcast manufacturing
facilities have been restructured and substantial progress made on
worldwide IT systems. We continued to launch attractive new products
and our recent acquisitions have been integrated. However, the results
were affected by a combination of overall weakness in our broadcast
markets and by adverse currency effects.
Year on year revenues grew for the first time since 2000 (from £182.2
million in 2002 to £192.8 million in 2003) due to new products and 
the effect of several small acquisitions. However, operating profit before
exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and impairment fell (from
£24.7 million to £17.8 million) due to changing product mix, adverse
exchange rates, the costs of increased product development activities
and the inefficiencies associated with the series of plant closures
undertaken in 2003.
Earnings per share, before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and
impairment, were 23.9p (2002: 34.1p) reflecting the factors above and
the continuing high tax rate, which arises because most of the Group’s
profits are earned outside of the UK.
Cash generation remained strong, with net cash inflow from operating
activities at £28.7 million (2002: £35.4 million) being 161% of operating
profit before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and impairment
(2002: 143%).
Market overview The market remained strong for Vitec’s Photographic
brands, particularly in the US. However the demand for our Broadcast
Systems products and for Broadcast Services rental service did not
recover. After an encouraging first three months in 2003, the Gulf War
and a slowdown in Asia depressed sales through most of the rest of 
the year. 
Weakness in broadcast markets was offset by success in other discrete
areas, such as live entertainment and military and government. A pick-
up was noticeable towards the end of the year, particularly in the
robotic camera support area, but I am cautious about drawing any 
06 The Vitec Group
firm conclusions from such limited evidence. The broadcast rental
market in the US stayed subdued for most of the year, and 2003 did
not benefit from the major sports event contracts of 2002.
In contrast, I am delighted to report that our Photographic business
enjoyed strong sales to the keen amateur segment, whilst sales to
professional photographers were relatively stable. Volume was up
significantly on the previous year, driven by new products targeted at
capturing the growth in digital still and video imaging but with much of
the volume going to the US, these volume gains were largely negated
by the impact of the falling dollar.
Acquisitions and Disposals In February 2003, Vitec acquired
OConnor Engineering, a leader in camera control heads for the film
industry, and Radamec Broadcast Systems, a leader in automated
robotic control systems. These businesses have been successfully
integrated, with OConnor products now available worldwide through the
Sachtler sales channel. Radamec Broadcast production was transferred
to Vinten in Bury St Edmunds. Radamec Broadcast enjoyed a particularly
strong end to the year. Aspen, which was integrated into Anton/Bauer
in 2002, generated sales growth of over 80% in 2003. 
In January 2004 we announced the acquisition of Manfrotto’s long-
standing German distributor for b1.9 million. It, together with our
existing trading companies in France, Italy and the US, will be renamed
Bogen Imaging, establishing a better marketing platform to support our
worldwide photographic dealers. 
At the end of the year Vitec broke off discussions with EVS Broadcast
Systems regarding the potential acquisition of that business. Due
diligence and other costs of £0.9 million were written-off as an
exceptional item.
In December we announced the sale of the Retail Display business,
ALU, for £11.9m. Whilst revenue grew to £22.4 million during the 
year, profitability was affected by a charge of b3.0 million (£2.1 million)
for upgrading retail units. ALU initially developed its business by
successfully selling variants of existing Manfrotto products to clothing Whilst the Group’s strategy is to enhance shareholder value by pursuing
growth, whether organically or by acquisition, the Board recognises that
if no suitable opportunities present themselves over the medium-term it
will consider how best to return cash to shareholders.
Outlook 2003 was a year of considerable change for Vitec and we
expect 2004 to benefit from the plant consolidation programme, largely
completed last year, and from the new products launched recently. 
Our photographic market remains strong and continues to benefit 
from the uptake of digital cameras, however the broadcast market
remains difficult. TV advertising in the US is now more buoyant than 
at any time during 2003, which should help our customers’ confidence,
although disappointing audience figures may continue to make
advertisers cautious.
With half of Vitec’s sales coming from the US, the present weakness 
of the dollar will have a negative effect on Vitec during 2004. Based 
on the euro, dollar and yen exchange rates governing at close of
business on 26 February continuing throughout 2004, there would 
be an adverse transaction effect of some £2.4 million and an adverse
translation effect of some £1.7 million, compared to 2003.
Alison Carnwath 
Chairman
Annual Report 2003 07
retailers. That overlap in product ranges is no longer so significant and
the business was identified as non-core. I would like to thank Abramo
Manfrotto, who has left with ALU, for his work at Vitec; sales by the
Manfrotto business doubled in the years of his leadership.
Changes to the Board The Board has been strengthened by the
appointment of Nigel Moore from 1 March 2004. Nigel spent most 
of his career at Ernst & Young and it is intended he will take over the
Chairmanship of the Audit Committee in September. I am delighted 
to welcome him to the Board.
I have now served on the Board for eight years, with five of them as
Chairman. It is therefore time to start planning for a successor. In order to
allow for an appropriate handover period, we are currently undertaking
a search process with a view to making an appointment during 2004.
I would like to thank all our employees worldwide, and my colleagues on
the Board, for the dedication and skill they have shown during the year,
one in which Vitec has made many steps forward in a difficult market.
2003 dividend and dividend policy The Board is recommending an
unchanged final dividend for the year of 16.6p, giving a total dividend
for the year of 22.7p.
The emphasis within the ‘Consolidate-Leverage-Grow’ strategy has so
far been on consolidation and restructuring of the Group’s activities; as
the balance changes towards growth the Board believes it is important
to ensure the company has the flexibility to pursue acquisitions.
Accordingly the Board has decided to adjust its dividend policy to move,
over a period of two to three years, towards an average dividend cover
level of around 2 times.
Subject to there being no material adverse factors that may affect the
Group’s results in 2004, the Board intends to maintain the interim
dividend for the financial year to December 2004 at 6.1p. The final
dividend for that year will be set taking into account the policy outlined
above and the outlook for 2005.
Clear-Com's Eclipse digital matrix intercom system is a leap forward in
communications technology, blending the field-proven suite of Matrix
Plus features with simple programming and a powerful new processing
platform with dual redundant power supplies. An individual matrix can
support up to 208 users.
