 6										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Gr oup	Chief	Executive	Stephen	Bir d		
r eviews	performance	and	strategy
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review
Our	str ong	performance	in	2011	was		
driven	by	sales	of	established	pr oducts,		
the	launch	of	new	pr oducts	including	
Manfr otto	Powerbrand	and	an	ear nings	
enhancing	acquisition.	
Financial performance 
V itec	deliver ed	str ong	pr ofitable	gr owth	
in	2011	as	we	continued	to	execute	
our	Thr ee	Market	Strategy .
Reported	r evenue	r ose	by	13.4%,	to	
£351.0	million	(2010:	£309.6	million)	
including	contributions	for	part	of	the	
year	fr om	Lastolite	acquir ed	in	Mar ch	
2011	and	Haigh-Farr	acquir ed	in	
December	2011.	Revenue	was	
boosted	by	str ong	gr owth	in	our	
br oadcast 	 and 	 photographic 	 equipment	
markets	and	continued	pr ogr ess	in		
a	lumpy	MAG	market.
Reported 	 operating 	 pr ofit* 	 incr eased 	 	
by 	 24.5% 	 to 	 £34.5 	 million 	 (2010:	 	
£27.7 	 million), 	 with 	 organic 	 gr owth 	 of	
18.0% 	 at 	 constant 	 exchange 	 rates.	 	
The 	 operating 	 margin 	 incr eased 	 to	
9.8% 	 (2010: 	 8.9%). 	 Reported 	 Gr oup	
pr ofit 	 befor e 	 tax* 	 was 	 23.6% 	 higher 	 at 	
£33.0 	 million 	 or 	 16.8% 	 on 	 an 	 organic	
basis 	 at 	 constant 	 exchange 	 rates.	
Underlying 	 Gr oup 	 basic 	 ear nings 	 per	
shar e* 	 was 	 up 	 22.7% 	 at 	 51.4 	 pence	
per 	 shar e 	 (2010: 	 41.9 	 pence 	 per 	 shar e).
Cash	generation	was	good	and		
as	planned,	with	fr ee	cash	flow	of	
£17.3	million	(2010:	£18.0	million)	after	
incr eases	in	inventory	and	r eceivables	
to	support	sales	gr owth	and	new	
pr oduct	launches	including	Manfr otto	
Powerbrand.	The	working	capital	to	
sales	ratio	r emained	steady	at	15.9%	
(31	December	2010:	15.8%).
Net 	 debt 	 at 	 31 	 December 	 2011 	 was	
£50.4 	 million 	 (31 	 December 	 2010:	 	
£28.1 	 million) 	 with 	 the 	 incr ease 	 primarily	
r eflecting 	 £28.7 	 million 	 of 	 acquisitions 	
made 	 in 	 the 	 year . 	 This 	 was 	 financed 	 by 	
£24.4 	 million 	 of 	 drawings 	 under 	 our	
£100 	 million 	 r evolving 	 cr edit 	 facility 	 and	
$50 	 million 	 (£32.2 	 million) 	 drawn 	 fr om 	 a	
new 	 $75 	 million 	 Private 	 Placement 	 shelf	
facility 	 that 	 was 	 put 	 in 	 place 	 during 	 the	
year . 	 V itec’ s 	 balance 	 sheet 	 r emains	
str ong 	 with 	 a 	 year -end 	 net 	 debt 	 to	
EBITDA 	 ratio 	 of 	 1.0 	 times 	 (31 	 December	
2010: 	 0.7 	 times).	
Three Market Strategy
W e	continued	to	execute	successfully	
our	Thr ee	Market	Strategy	in	2011.
Broadcast and video
W e	have	leading	brands	in	the	
br oadcast	and	video	market	which	
comprises	pr oducts	and	services	
aimed	at	television	networks	and	
studios	(br oadcast)	and	corporate,	
r eligious	and	educational		
entities	(video).
In	the	br oadcast	sector	we	have	
continued	to	maintain	our	pr emium	
market	position	and	believe	that		
we	have	incr eased	our	shar e	of	this	
market	thr ough	our	ability	to	bundle	
pr oducts	for	br oadcast	studios	and	
on-location	needs.	In	the	video	sector	
we	launched	a	major	new	range	of	
supports,	the	Sachtler	Ace,	designed	
for	the	needs	of	the	independent	
cameraman.	
*		 Befor e	Significant	items.	Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in		
the	understanding	of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011).
Up
+13.4%
Group revenue
£351.0m	
Revenue  
£m
         315.1
      309.6 
        351.0
09 10 11  The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										7
Photographic
W e	continued	to	supply	our	range		
of 	 pr oducts 	 (tripods, 	 heads, 	 bags, 	 and	
lighting	supports	and	contr ols)	to	the	
pr ofessional	photographic	segment.	
W e	have	also	invested	in	and	launched	
a	new	range	of	tripods,	bags,	lighting	
and	other	photographic	pr oducts	to	
the	consumer	segment	as	part	of	our	
Manfr otto	Powerbrand	sales	initiative.	
In	the	pr ofessional	segment,	we	
continued	to	serve	the	traditional	
photographic	speciality	stor es.	In	the	
consumer	segment,	we	incr eased	our	
penetration	in	consumer	e l e c t r o n i c s	
stor es 	 and 	 in 	 mass 	 mer chandiser	
outlets	as	well	as	online.	Based	on	
independent	r esear ch	data,	we	have	
incr eased	our	market	shar e	in	the		
US	and	in	Eur ope	in	tripods	and	bags.
Military, aerospace and 
government (MAG)
W e	continue	to	leverage	our	br oadcast	
micr owave	technology	into	the	MAG	
market.	W e	have	had	success	in	
winning	significant	or ders	particularly		
in	the	law	enfor cement	segment	and	
have	begun	to	make	inr oads	in	the	
defence	segment,	especially	for	
unmanned	applications,	though	the	
pr ecise	timing	of	futur e	or ders		
r emains	uncertain.	
Product development
W e	continue	to	invest	in	new	pr oducts	
and	enhancements	to	our	existing	
range 	 and 	 in 	 our 	 r esear ch, 	 development	
and 	 engineering 	 capabilities. 	 After	 	
adjusting	for	capitalised	expenditur e		
of	£0.1	million	(2010:	£1.5	million)		
and	amortisation	of	£0.5	million		
(2010:	£0.2	million),	r esear ch,	
development	and	engineering	
expenditur e	on	a	like-for -like	basis		
was	£11.8	million	(2010:	£10.6	million).	
This	r epr esents	an	investment	equal	to	
4% 	 of 	 Gr oup 	 pr oduct 	 sales 	 (2010: 	 4%)	
a f t e r 	 a d j u s t i n g 	for	£0.5	million	of	
expenditur e 	 incurr ed 	 in 	 the 	 Clear -Com	
business	which	was	sold	in	2010.
Acquisitions and disposals
W e	acquir ed	Lastolite	in	Mar ch		
2011	for	a	total	potential	consideration	
of	£9.8	million	to	augment	our		
range	of	lighting	accessories	for	the	
photographic	market.	Lastolite	
supplies	a	market-leading	range	of	
lighting	contr ols	such	as	r eflectors		
and	has	been	successfully	integrated	
into	our	Imaging	&	Staging	Division.	
As	part	of	our	gr owth	into	the		
MAG	market,	we	acquir ed	Haigh-Farr	
in	mid-December	2011	for	an	initial	
cash	consideration	of	$31.0	million		
(£20.0	million)	subject	to	working	
capital	adjustments.	Haigh-Farr	
designs,	develops	and	manufactur es	
high	performance	antennae	for	
defence,	space	and	commer cial	
applications	and	we	ar e	confident	that	
it	will	enhance	our	penetration	into	
these	markets.
Our people
W e	continue	to	invest	in	the	
development	of	our	people	as		
the	capability	and	capacity	of	our	
organisation	is	a	cor e	component	of	
our	strategy .	In	2012	we	will	continue	
to	focus	on	attracting	and	engaging	
the	very	best	talent.
Opportunities for 2012  
and beyond
W e 	 have 	 good 	 short, 	 mid 	 and 	 long-term	
pr ospects	in	our	thr ee	main	markets.	
The 	 br oadcast 	 market 	 is 	 anticipated 	 to	
benefit	fr om	continued	changes	in	
camera	technology	and	has	become	
less 	 dependent 	 on 	 advertising 	 r evenue	
as	subscription	television	gains	in	
popularity . 	 Whilst 	 cost 	 pr essur es 	 in 	 the	
MAG 	 market 	 continue 	 and 	 the 	 timing 	 of	
the	awar ds	of	large	contracts	r emains	
variable,	we	believe	that	we	ar e	well-
placed	given	our	focus	on	intelligence,	
surveillance	and	r econnaissance,	
especially	on	unmanned	applications.	
Photography	continues	to	attract	new	
customers	as	the	number	and	type	of	
image-taking 	 devices 	 incr eases 	 and 	 the	
distribution	of	images	via	social	media	
becomes	mor e	popular .
Summary and outlook
In	2011	we	achieved	str ong	sales	
gr owth	in	the	Br oadcast	market		
wher e	V itec	has	an	extensive	global	
pr esence	with	well-established	market	
leading	pr oducts.	W e	have	continued	
to	invest	in	new	pr oduct	development	
and	early	sales	of	our	Manfr otto	
Powerbrand	have	exceeded	
expectations.	W e	have	added	market	
leading	pr oducts	and	technologies	
thr ough	our	Lastolite	and	Haigh-Farr	
acquisitions	and	made	encouraging	
pr ogr ess	in	the	lumpy	MAG	market.
	
Although	the	macr oeconomic	
envir onment	is	uncertain,	we	ar e	
investing 	 in 	 thr ee 	 cor e 	 markets 	 that 	 we	
believe	have	good	underlying	gr owth	
drivers.	W e	ther efor e	anticipate	
another	year	of	pr ogr ess	in	2012.
Stephen Bird
Gr oup	Chief	Executive
3
market
strategy 8										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Broadcast & video market update
3
market
strategy
Increase in video 
Ther e 	 has 	 been 	 a 	 significant 	 incr ease 	 in 	
the 	 amount 	 of 	 video 	 being 	 shot 	 globally .	
This 	 has 	 been 	 stimulated 	 by 	 the 	 ease 	 with	
which 	 videographers 	 can 	 captur e, 	 edit	 	
and 	 distribute 	 content 	 (for 	 example, 	 over	
the 	 inter net 	 on 	 Y ouT ube 	 and 	 a 	 gr eater	
popularity 	 of 	 hand-held 	 devices). 	 It 	 has	
also 	 gr own 	 thanks 	 to 	 the 	 incr eased 	 v i d e o	
capabilities 	 of 	 photographic 	 cameras.
Higher production values
Ther e 	 is 	 a 	 continued 	 tr end 	 towar ds 	 higher 	 pr oduction 	 values	
and 	 image 	 quality 	 in 	 br oadcast 	 which 	 is 	 shortening 	 camera	
r eplacement 	 cycles. 	 The 	 first 	 wave 	 of 	 high 	 definition 	 (1K) 	 is 	
well 	 underway 	 but 	 ther e 	 ar e 	 further 	 waves 	 (2K 	 and 	 4K) 	 to	
come. 	 In 	 addition 	 the 	 need 	 for 	 cr eative 	 dif fer entiation 	 has	
encouraged 	 the 	 development 	 of 	 new 	 cameras 	 which 	 can	
of fer 	 a 	 dif fer ent 	 image, 	 for 	 example 	 a 	 “film 	 look” 	 to 	 a 	 TV 	 show . 	
Broadcasters capital expenditure
Br oadcasters 	 ar e 	 curr ently 	 able 	 to 	 af for d	
capital 	 expenditur e 	 pr ojects 	 such 	 as 	 the	
construction 	 or 	 r efurbishment 	 of 	 studios.	
Those 	 br oadcasters 	 r eliant 	 on 	 subscription	
income 	 such 	 as 	 Sky 	 and 	 ESPN 	 have	
performed 	 well 	 despite 	 the 	 downtur n 	 between	
2009 	 and 	 2011 	 and 	 have 	 expanded 	 with	
new 	 operations 	 globally . 	 Likewise 	 in 	 emerging	
markets 	 such 	 as 	 Brazil, 	 China 	 and 	 the 	 states	
of 	 the 	 former 	 Soviet 	 Union, 	 ther e 	 is 	 a 	 desir e	
to 	 upgrade 	 old 	 facilities 	 and 	 ther e 	 is 	 now	
the 	 financial 	 capability 	 to 	 do 	 so. 	 The 	 savings 	
of fer ed 	 by 	 LED 	 lighting 	 compar ed 	 with	
traditional 	 lighting 	 over 	 the 	 life 	 of 	 the 	 pr oduct	
drive 	 the 	 r eplacement 	 of 	 those 	 pr oducts 	 too.
Vitec supplies the broadcast market with a variety  
of products and services to assist in the capture  
and transmission of video images. The products 
manufactured or sourced by Vitec are camera 
supports (pedestals, tripods and heads), bags,  
LED lights, prompters, mobile power (batteries  
and chargers) and microwave systems. The  
services provided by Vitec include broadcast 
equipment rental and installation. 
W e 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 br oadcast 	 and 	 video 	 market 	 for	 	
pr oducts 	 and 	 services 	 supplied 	 by 	 Vitec 	 was 	 worth 	 ar ound	 	
£750 	 million 	 in 	 2011. 	 This 	 includes 	 the 	 traditional 	 br oadcast	 	
and 	 film 	 markets 	 as 	 well 	 as 	 the 	 video 	 pr oduction 	 market. 	
THE  
GROWTH 
DRIVERS
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										9
Broadcast equipment	
T o 	 maintain 	 our 	 shar e 	 and 	 position 	 in 	 manual 	 camera 	 supports 	 and	
portable 	 power 	 and 	 to 	 gr ow 	 our 	 shar e 	 in 	 r obotic 	 camera 	 systems,	
in 	 LED 	 lighting 	 and 	 in 	 micr owave 	 systems 	 outside 	 the 	 US. 	 W e 	 ar e	
investing 	 in 	 incr easing 	 our 	 service 	 of fering 	 to 	 customers 	 by 	 cr eating	
bespoke 	 one-stop 	 solutions.
Broadcast services 	
T o 	 focus 	 on 	 large 	 events 	 wher e 	 higher 	 pr oduction 	 values 	 ar e 	 most	
needed 	 and 	 to 	 secur e 	 multi-year 	 contracts 	 for 	 those 	 events.	
Video 
T o 	 develop 	 new 	 pr oducts 	 and 	 new 	 sales 	 channels 	 to 	 gr ow 	 our	
shar e 	 of 	 this 	 fast 	 gr owing 	 segment 	 which 	 we 	 serve 	 primarily 	 with	 	
our 	 Sachtler 	 and 	 Manfr otto 	 brands. 	 W e 	 also 	 bundle 	 our 	 pr oducts	 	
to 	 of fer 	 a 	 compelling 	 package 	 for 	 this 	 segment.	
Other markets 	
Wher e 	 attractive 	 and 	 feasible, 	 we 	 will 	 leverage 	 our 	 pr oducts 	 fr om	
the 	 Br oadcast 	 market 	 into 	 other 	 markets. 	 An 	 example 	 of 	 this 	 is 	 the	
use 	 of 	 our 	 batteries 	 and 	 chargers 	 for 	 the 	 US 	 medical 	 carts 	 market.	
VITEC MARKET POSITION
Supports Lighting
W ith	our	multiple	brands	(comprising	V inten,	
Sachtler ,	OConnor ,	V inten	Radamec	and	
Manfr otto)	covering	br oadcast	manual	
supports	and	r obotic	systems	and	supports	
for	the	video	segment,	we	have	the	pr emium	
position	and	largest	market	shar e.
Litepanels 	 led 	 the 	 way 	 in 	 the 	 adoption 	 of 	 LED	
lighting 	 in 	 the 	 video 	 segment 	 and 	 “on 	 location”	
for 	 br oadcast. 	 It 	 is 	 now 	 also 	 the 	 leader 	 in 	 the	 	
use 	 of 	 LEDs 	 for 	 use 	 in 	 br oadcast 	 studios.
Bags
W ith 	 our 	 Petr ol 	 and 	 Kata 	 brands, 	 we 	 ar e 	 the	
number 	 one 	 (by 	 value) 	 in 	 the 	 supply 	 of 	 bags	
for 	 the 	 video 	 segment.
Prompting
W ith 	 our 	 Autoscript 	 brand, 	 we 	 ar e 	 the 	 number	
one 	 (by 	 value) 	 for 	 pr ompting 	 equipment 	 to 	 the	
br oadcast 	 market.	
Mobile Power
Anton/Bauer 	 is 	 the 	 leading 	 brand 	 with 	 a 	 number	 	
one 	 position 	 (by 	 value) 	 in 	 the 	 after -market 	 for 	 camera	
batteries 	 and 	 chargers 	 in 	 the 	 br oadcast 	 sector .
Microwave Systems
IMT 	 is 	 the 	 number 	 two 	 in 	 the 	 br oadcast	
segment 	 and 	 the 	 number 	 one 	 in 	 the 	 US 	 video	
segment, 	 wher e 	 its 	 equipment 	 is 	 also 	 used 	 in	
sports 	 and 	 entertainment 	 applications.
OUR STRATEGY
Vitec 	 has 	 the 	premium position 	 and	
largest 	 market 	 shar e 10										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
3
market
strategy
THE  
GROWTH 
DRIVERS
Continued growth in sales  
of cameras 
Ther e 	 has 	 been 	 continued 	 gr owth 	 in 	 sales	
of 	 cameras: 	 digital 	 SLR 	 unit 	 sales 	 have	
been 	 gr owing 	 at 	 over 	 20% 	 per 	 annum.	
Further 	 gr owth 	 of 	 SLR 	 volumes 	 is 	 expected	
due 	 to 	 the 	 impr oved 	 video 	 capability 	 of 	 the	
latest 	 models 	 as 	 video 	 and 	 photography	
converge. 	 A 	 new 	 type 	 of 	 camera, 	 known	
as 	 compact 	 inter -changeable 	 or 	 compact	
system 	 cameras, 	 has 	 also 	 been 	 heavily	
pr omoted 	 by 	 manufactur ers. 	 These	
cameras 	 ar e 	 priced 	 significantly 	 higher 	 than 	
the 	 old 	 “point 	 and 	 shoot” 	 camera 	 and 	 thus	
should 	 generate 	 demand 	 for 	 accessories.	
The new social recorders
Ther e 	 is 	 a 	 new 	 population 	 of	
photographers 	 who 	 ar e 	 inter ested 	 in	
r ecor ding 	 images. 	 These 	 “social 	 r ecor ders”	
ar e 	 using 	 smart 	 phones 	 with 	 high 	 mega-
pixel 	 lenses 	 (such 	 as 	 the 	 iPhone 	 4S) 	 to	
take 	 images 	 and 	 shar e 	 them 	 using 	 social	
media 	 networks. 	 The 	 emergence 	 of 	 a	 	
new 	 middle 	 class 	 in 	 BRIC 	 countries 	 has	
contributed 	 significantly 	 to 	 this 	 new 	
population 	 of 	 photographers.
New distribution  
channels
The 	 emergence 	 of 	 new 	 distribution	
channels 	 (such 	 as 	 online 	 and 	 in 	 consumer	
electr onics 	 stor es) 	 for 	 photographic	
pr oducts 	 has 	 helped 	 stimulate 	 demand	
fr om 	 new 	 consumers.	
Photographic market update
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review
10										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Vitec supplies this market with a variety of products for 
the photographic camera. These comprise products 
manufactured or sourced by Vitec and third party 
products distributed by Vitec. The equipment 
manufactured or sourced by Vitec are camera supports 
(tripods and heads), bags, lighting supports, LED  
lights and lighting controls (for example, umbrellas  
and reflectors). The primary third party product  
distributed by Vitec is flash lights. 
W e 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 photographic 	 market 	 for 	 pr oduct 	 categories	 	
supplied 	 or 	 distributed 	 by 	 V itec 	 was 	 worth 	 ar ound 	 £830 	 million	 	
i n 	 2 0 1 1 . 	 Of	this	market,	appr oximately	half	is	pur chased	by		
pr ofessional	photographers	who	we	have	supplied	historically		
and	whose	business	is	taking	images.	The	r emainder	ar e	sold		
to	consumers,	that	we	ar e	now	actively	serving,	who	have	a		
keen	inter est	in	photography	or ,	incr easingly ,	a	new	population		
of	photographers	who	simply	want	to	r ecor d	and	shar e	images.	 Supports
Lighting
Bags
W ith 	 its 	 high 	 quality 	 and 	 innovative	 	
pr oducts 	 sold 	 under 	 the 	 Manfr otto 	 and	
Gitzo 	 names, 	 we 	 have 	 the 	 pr emier 	 brands	
in 	 photographic 	 camera 	 tripods 	 and 	 heads.	
W e 	 ar e 	 the 	 clear 	 leader 	 in 	 terms 	 of 	 market	
shar e 	 (by 	 value) 	 globally .
In 	 lighting 	 supports, 	 which 	 ar e 	 primarily 	 used 	 in 	 the 	 pr ofessional	
sector , 	 Manfr otto 	 is 	 the 	 market 	 leader 	 (by 	 value). 	 In 	 lighting 	 contr ols	
such 	 as 	 umbr ellas 	 and 	 r eflectors, 	 Lastolite 	 is 	 the 	 market 	 leader 	 in 	
EMEA 	 and 	 gaining 	 shar e 	 in 	 the 	 USA. 	 In 	 lighting, 	 the 	 use 	 of 	 LEDs 	 is	
gaining 	 pr ominence 	 as 	 a 	 mor e 	 efficient 	 r eplacement 	 for 	 traditional 	
lighting 	 and 	 Manfr otto 	 is 	 at 	 the 	 for efr ont 	 of 	 the 	 intr oduction 	 of 	 LEDs.
Sold 	 under 	 the 	 Manfr otto, 	 Kata 	 and 	 (under	
licence) 	 the 	 National 	 Geographic 	 brands,	
we 	 continue 	 to 	 gain 	 shar e 	 in 	 this 	 large	
pr oduct 	 category . 	 W e 	 ar e 	 a 	 leader 	 in 	 the	
global 	 market 	 in 	 terms 	 of 	 market 	 shar e	 	
(by 	 value).
Vitec 	 has 	 the 	premier brands 	 in	
photographic 	 camera 	 tripods 	 and 	 heads
VITEC MARKET POSITION
OUR STRATEGY
Professionals 
T o	maintain	our	leadership	in	the	pr ofessional	and	keen	amateurs	
segments	with	our	range	of	Manfr otto	and	Gitzo	camera	supports.
Consumers
T o	gr ow	the	Manfr otto	brand	and	its	market	shar e	by	leveraging	
its	str ength	into	adjacent	pr oducts	(such	as	bags	and	lights),	into	
pr emium	consumer	segments	and	into	new	distribution	channels	
(such	as	consumer	electr onics	stor es	and	online).	
T o	incr ease	penetration	of	photographic	pr oducts into	the	market	
by	explaining	better	the	benefits	of	the	pr oducts	and	by	engaging	
with	customers.	
T o	deliver	an	integrated	range	of	accessories	fr om	the	same	
manufactur er	(Manfr otto):	we	ar e	able	to	accompany		
a	photographer	thr oughout	his	entir e	imaging	experience.	
The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										11 12										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
3
market
strategy
Gr oup	Chief	Executive’ s	Review
MAG market update
Ther e 	 is 	 an 	 incr easing 	 demand 	 for 	 r eal-time	
high 	 quality 	 video 	 images 	 to 	 be 	 transmitted	
and 	 r eceived 	 wir elessly 	 by 	 law 	 enfor cement	
agencies 	 and 	 military 	 users. 	 This 	 technology	
pr ovides 	 users 	 with 	 gr eater 	 situational	
awar eness, 	 for 	 example, 	 for 	 cr owd 	 contr ol,	
and, 	 in 	 unmanned 	 applications, 	 minimises	
the 	 potential 	 loss 	 of 	 human 	 life.
Vitec manufactures and supplies the MAG market  
with microwave transmitters and receivers and now 
antennae via Haigh-Farr, our most recent acquisition. 
>		Law enforcement	
agencies 	 such 	 as	 	
police 	 departments 	 –	 	
for 	 example 	 to 	 send	
video 	 signals 	 fr om	
helicopters 	 to	 	
gr ound 	 patr ols
>		3-letter agencies	 	
such	as	the	US	
Department 	 of 	 Justice	
who 	 use 	 micr owave	
equipment	for	
surveillance 	 purposes
>		Defence	 	
customers 	 wher e	
micr owave 	 systems	 	
ar e 	 used 	 to 	 r ecognise	
and 	 assess 	 thr eats	 	
mor e 	 ef fectively	
W e 	 estimate 	 that 	 the 	 MAG 	 market 	 for 	 pr oducts 	 supplied 	 by 	 Vitec 	 was 	 worth	
ar ound 	 £400 	 million 	 in 	 2011.	
THE GROWTH 
DRIVERS
OUR  
STRATEGY
> 	 T o 	 expand 	 our 	 pr oduct 	 of fering 	 to	 	
include 	 other 	 major 	 pr oducts 	 in	 	
a 	 micr owave 	 system 	 besides	 	
transmitters 	 and 	 r eceivers	
> 	 T o 	 build 	 on 	 our 	 leading 	 market 	 position	 	
in 	 the 	 law 	 enfor cement 	 segment 	 by	
continuing 	 to 	 of fer 	 the 	 latest 	 technology	
> 	 T o 	 leverage 	 our 	 good 	 r elationship 	 with 	 the	
US 	 Department 	 of 	 Justice 	 to 	 win 	 or ders	
fr om 	 other 	 thr ee 	 letter 	 agencies	
> 	 T o 	 become 	 mor e 	 widely 	 known 	 in	 	
the 	 military 	 segment 	 and 	 focus 	 on	 	
unmanned 	 applications	
Vitec serves:
12										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011 Haigh-Farr 	 is 	 a 	 world 	 leader 	 in 	 the 	 design, 	 development	
and	manufactur e	of	flight-body	antennae	for	simple	
and	sophisticated	communication	applications.	It	
primarily	serves	the	defence	and	space	markets	
pr oviding	high	quality ,	application	specific	antennae	
for	challenging	communication	envir onments.
Products and history
Based 	 in 	 Bedfor d, 	 New 	 Hampshir e, 	 US, 	 Haigh-Farr 	 has 	 over	
thirty 	 years 	 of 	 experience 	 in 	 the 	 design 	 and 	 manufactur e 	 of 	 high	
quality 	 antennae. 	 It 	 of fers 	 a 	 br oad 	 range 	 of 	 antenna 	 technologies	
and 	 has 	 an 	 inter national 	 r eputation 	 for 	 pr oduct 	 and 	 performance	
excellence.	It	pioneer ed	the	W rapar ound
™
	antenna	concept	
which	has	enhanced	the	performance	capabilities	of	air craft,	
missiles	and	spacecraft	worldwide.	Haigh-Farr’ s	customers	
include	a	number	of	leading	US	prime	contractors.
Antennae 	 ar e 	 a 	 key 	 element 	 of 	 a 	 micr owave 	 system 	 that	
complement 	 our 	 existing 	 range 	 of 	 transmitters 	 and 	 r eceivers.
Growth potential and synergies
> 	 As 	 defence 	 pr oducts 	 and 	 space 	 vehicles 	 become 	 mor e	
sophisticated, 	 ther e 	 is 	 a 	 need 	 for 	 mor e 	 sophisticated 	 antennae	
to 	 send 	 signals 	 back 	 to 	 command 	 and 	 contr ol 	 centr es
> 	 Haigh-Farr 	 should 	 benefit 	 fr om 	 our 	 inter national 	 pr esence 	
including 	 our 	 salesfor ce 	 in 	 Eur ope 	 and 	 Asia
> 	 Haigh-Farr’ s 	 long-established 	 existing 	 customer 	 base 	 of 	 US	
prime 	 contractors 	 should 	 enable 	 us 	 to 	 gain 	 access 	 to 	 those	
customers 	 mor e 	 easily
> 	 Haigh-Farr’ s 	 conformal 	 technology 	 can 	 be 	 r eadily 	 adapted	 	
for 	 our 	 unmanned 	 applications
ACQUISITION: 
HAIGH-FARR 
The 	 Mars 	 Science 	 Laboratory 	 launched 	 in 	 November 	 2011 	 by 	 an 	 Atlas 	 V	
r ocket. 	 Both 	 the 	 Mars 	 Science 	 Laboratory 	 and 	 the 	 r ocket 	 ar e 	 installed 	 with	
Haigh-Farr 	 antennae 	 and 	 telemetric 	 systems.
The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										13
