 6 The Vitec Group plc
Strategy
We have continued to deliver our strategy to focus on three markets with organic growth 
opportunities, supplemented where appropriate with selective acquisitions. Our three  
markets are:
1: Broadcast & Video 
The Broadcast & Video market is served by our Videocom businesses together with 
the Services business, which supply a variety of products and services to assist in the 
capture and transmission of video images. Vitec has leading products and brands aimed 
at television networks and studios, film-makers, outside broadcasters and corporate, 
religious and educational entities. Our strategy is to maintain our premium product 
offerings and market share with traditional broadcast customers whilst developing 
specific products and new channels focused on the needs of the cameraman in the 
video segment. Where attractive and feasible, we will leverage our products from  
the Broadcast market into other markets, for example the use of our batteries and 
chargers for the US medical carts market.
We have increased our share of this market through our ability to bundle products 
for broadcast studios and on-location needs. In the video sector we have benefited 
from a major new range of supports, the Sachtler Ace, designed for the needs of the 
independent cameraman. 
2: Photographic 
The Photographic market, served by our Imaging Division, has continued to supply  
its range of products (tripods, heads, bags and lighting supports and controls) to the 
professional photographic segment. We have also continued to supply a range of 
tripods, bags, lighting and other photographic products to the consumer segment  
as part of our Manfrotto Powerbrand sales initiative. 
In the professional segment, we continued to serve the traditional photographic  
speciality stores and in the consumer segment, we increased our penetration in 
consumer electronics stores and in mass merchandise outlets. We continued to  
grow our online sales of products to both the professional and consumer segments. 
Based on independent research data, we have increased our share of the tripods  
market in the US and in Europe. 
Vitec continues to deliver its strategy and increase 
its share in key markets. We have successfully 
integrated some value enhancing acquisitions 
during the year. 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Group Chief Executive Stephen Bird  
reviews strategy and performance
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Group Chief Executive’s Review 
www.vitecgroup.com/ceo DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
3: Military, Aerospace and Government (MAG) 
The MAG market is addressed through the IMT and  
Haigh-Farr businesses and is reported as part of our Videocom 
segment. IMT is a technology leader for mission-critical visual 
communication and surveillance products for security and 
defence applications. Haigh-Farr is a world-leading designer 
and manufacturer of high quality application-specific antennas 
serving this market. 
The MAG market is dependent on the level of investment  
by the US Government and key US Government agencies. 
Although the longer-term prospects for our IMT business  
remain good, there is limited visibility around the award of 
significant contracts from agencies that are experiencing  
budget constraints. The Haigh-Farr business that was acquired 
in 2011 is performing strongly and ahead of our pre-acquisition 
expectations in this challenging market. 
Performance overview 
Vitec increased profits* and delivered improved margins*  
in each Division during 2012, against a background of a more 
challenging macroeconomic environment, particularly in the 
second half of the year. We have been able to achieve this 
through maintaining and in some cases increasing share in  
our key markets, making earnings enhancing acquisitions,  
and by a continued focus on cost management.
Revenue fell by 1.6% to £345.3 million (2011: £351.0 million). 
There was a good performance in our Broadcast & Video 
businesses which benefited from the acquisition of Camera 
Corps and its strong performance at the London 2012 
Olympics. The Olympics contributed approximately £3.0 million 
of operating profit in 2012 including a significant profit from 
Camera Corps. The Photographic business performed well 
and ceased the distribution of some lower margin third-party 
products. Our MAG activities benefited from the integration  
and growth of Haigh-Farr which compensated for a challenging 
year in our IMT business. 
A focus on improving margins and controlling costs resulted in 
a 13.9% increase in reported operating profit* to £39.3 million 
(2011: £34.5 million) and a 160 bps increase in operating 
margin* to 11.4% (2011: 9.8%). 
Profit before tax* was 9.7% higher at £36.2 million. Adjusted 
earnings per share* were up 8.6% at 55.8 pence per share 
(2011: 51.4 pence per share). Group profit before tax of  
£16.1 million (2011: £23.8 million) included the impact of 
charges associated with acquired businesses incorporating a 
goodwill impairment charge relating to IMT and the impact of 
the disposal of the Staging business.
Free cash flow
+
 was £10.8 million (2011: £16.5 million)  
and total cash outflow of £15.1 million (2011: £22.1 million) 
reflected outflows relating to acquisitions and disposals, 
purchases of shares to meet share plan commitments  
and dividend payments. 
Product development
We continue to invest in new products and enhancements 
to our existing range and in our research, development and 
engineering capabilities. 2012 has seen a greater level of 
product development collaboration across our Divisions,  
with technologies such as LED lighting being developed to  
serve both Broadcast & Video and Photographic markets.  
We continue to invest around 4% of Group product sales  
into research and development.
Acquisitions and disposals
We acquired Camera Corps in April 2012 for consideration of 
£8.7 million. The business delivered an excellent result in 2012, 
benefiting from the UEFA Euro 2012 Championships and the 
London 2012 Olympics.
We sold the non-core and loss-making Staging business in 
August 2012. The exit from this business will allow management 
to focus attention on our core markets and future priorities. 
Streamlining of certain operations planned in 2013
Vitec has continued to make good progress in improving its 
margins and managing its cost base. As part of this process, 
the Group is streamlining certain operations by downsizing 
selected activities in the UK, Israel and US and expanding 
its manufacturing capabilities in Costa Rica to further shift to 
lower cost manufacturing. These planned actions are intended 
to better position the Group for the future whilst delivering an 
attractive return. These plans are expected to incur one-off 
costs of approximately £9.0 million, of which £8.0 million will  
be cash. 
Outlook
Against the background of a challenging economic environment 
and our limited order visibility, Vitec has decided to take 
appropriate actions to streamline certain operations. These 
actions better position Vitec for the future and the Board 
remains conﬁdent about the prospects for the Group.
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
3
market
strategy
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+
  Free cash ﬂow: cash generated from operations in the ﬁnancial year after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid.
