 4 The Vitec Group plc
Performance and Strategy
In my first statement as Chairman I am pleased to report that the Group has  
delivered a strong set of financials with growth in operating profit*. This is an especially 
pleasing set of results considering that as the year progressed, the macroeconomic 
environment became more challenging particularly in the US and Europe. A notable 
success for the Group was its involvement in the London 2012 Olympics with our 
equipment and services widely used to capture exceptional images that conveyed  
the excitement of a truly memorable sporting occasion. 
In the delivery of this result, the Board has focused upon the strategy of the Group 
providing vital products and services that support the capture of exceptional images  
to our customers in the Broadcast & Video, Photographic and MAG markets. We 
acquired Camera Corps in April 2012 which provides speciality remote camera 
systems, including the Q-Ball used widely at the key events of 2012. We also disposed 
of the non-core Staging business in August 2012 enabling management to focus  
upon delivering the Company’s strategy. We have reviewed our cost base seeking  
to improve margins and drive operational efficiencies to ensure that our businesses  
are competitive and able to deliver in these uncertain markets.
Dividend
As a result of our financial performance in 2012 and our confidence in the future,  
the Board has recommended a final dividend of 13.5 pence per ordinary share  
(12.5 pence in 2011). The final dividend, if approved at the 2013 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM), will be paid on Friday, 17 May 2013. 
Chairman’s Statement
Total dividend for 2012
Recommended final dividend  
per share
Interim dividend per share
22.0 pence
13.5 pence
8.5 pence
The Group has delivered a strong set of financial 
results in 2012 and our involvement in the London 
2012 Olympics was a notable success with our 
equipment and services widely used to capture 
exceptional images. 
Governance report 
Turn to page 52
Chairman John McDonough  
reports on his induction to Vitec
Chairman’s Statement 
www.vitecgroup.com/chairman
*  Before charges associated with acquired businesses. Proﬁt before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
Up
7.3% DIRECTORS’ REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Board and Governance
Since my appointment as a director on 15 March 2012, I have 
succeeded Michael Harper as Chairman with effect from 1 June 
2012 and I would like to thank Michael for his excellent 
Chairmanship and service to Vitec for over eight years. I have 
undertaken a thorough induction to the Company, its products 
and services, meeting numerous shareholders and advisors, 
visiting our major businesses in the US, UK and Italy, and 
meeting large numbers of our people. 
I have got to know our executive management team led by
Stephen Bird and am confident that we have a talented team
in place to deliver on our strategy.
The Board will undergo further changes in the coming months. 
Maria Richter, who has been an independent Non-Executive 
Director since February 2007 will not be seeking re-appointment 
at the 2013 AGM. I would like to thank Maria for her considerable 
contribution to Vitec during this period of service. We will 
therefore go forward after the AGM in 2013 with a slimmed  
down Board of seven Directors including myself as Chairman, 
four independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive 
Directors. In order to ensure Board continuity during my first year 
as Chairman, Nigel Moore will remain as Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Having been 
appointed a Director in March 2004, the Board and I confirm  
that Nigel continues to provide rigorous independence and 
commitment to the role. His experience particularly on financial 
matters, governance and the management of risk is considered 
vital at this time of transition for the Board. The Board and I  
will continue to consider the issue of succession within the 
Board and will announce our plans in due course. 
The Board is responsible for setting Group strategy and 
charging the executive with delivery of that strategy including 
the management of resources and associated risks and 
controls. The Board has implemented a robust governance 
structure to manage those risks. The Corporate Governance 
report on pages 52 to 63 sets out the structure of our 
governance arrangements. Good corporate governance is 
central to the delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder 
value. The Board set itself several key objectives in 2012 
against which it has measured performance and has further 
set new objectives for 2013. The detail of performance  
against the 2012 objectives is summarised in the Corporate 
Governance report. We have built upon the 2011 externally 
facilitated Board evaluation with an internally facilitated 
evaluation in 2012 and I can report that the Board and  
its individual directors are working effectively, driving 
management to deliver upon agreed strategy whilst  
ensuring that risks are understood and managed.
We have complied with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code throughout 2012 and continue to strive to evolve our 
governance arrangements to comply with emerging best 
practice and to explain constructively the rationale for any 
divergence from the Code’s principles and provisions.
Annual General Meeting
Our 2013 AGM will be held on Wednesday, 15 May 2013 and 
the Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes accompany this 
Annual Report. I look forward to the opportunity to meet our 
shareholders at this meeting.
Our People
The Company’s long-term success is dependent upon the 
diversity, dedication and commitment of all our people. We 
have invested in the development of succession plans and 
talent development. We have ensured that all our people have 
a common set of values captured in our Code of Business 
Conduct. We have further made good progress on Health 
and Safety both in terms of safe working practices and the 
reporting of performance. Our Corporate Responsibility Report 
on pages 44 to 51 details this more fully.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our 
people for their continuing commitment and passion for the 
Company’s products, services and customers thus enabling 
the delivery of a strong set of financial results in 2012. 
John McDonough CBE 
Chairman
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
