 8 The Vitec Group plc
*  Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+
  Free cash flow: cash generated from operating activities in the financial year after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid.
Continue to deliver our strategy
We delivered a good performance in 2014 and continued 
to successfully execute our strategy of focusing on our core 
markets supplemented with selective value-adding acquisitions.
Vitec’s Broadcast and Photographic activities continue to 
present attractive long-term growth prospects for the Group. 
This growth is being driven by the increase in not only the 
capture but also the sharing of high quality images, and by the 
continued rapid evolution of new technologies. Vitec has leading 
brands and technologies in its markets and we are developing 
and launching new premium products and services, particularly 
for the growing number of independent content creators.
Our strategy is to grow our core business by leveraging our 
premium brands supported by product development and 
utilising our global reach. We believe that the Asia-Pacific region, 
which accounts for around 17% of our revenue, is an important 
growth market and there are good opportunities in this region. 
Products and services supporting major live events also present 
good growth opportunities for the Group, as demonstrated by 
the Sochi Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup.
In our Broadcast market we have launched a number of 
innovative products including: the Teradek Bolt; new ranges  
of Anton/Bauer batteries; and the Q3 robotic camera from 
Camera Corps. The Teradek Bolt is a market leading wireless 
transmitter that sends high quality images up to 600 metres and 
is selling strongly. Anton/Bauer has launched a new range of 
Lithium-Ion batteries with the latest battery cell technology and 
enhanced features including an improved fuel computer display. 
The new Q3 from Camera Corps has an even smoother motion, 
enhanced zoom and choice of multiple HD formats. 
We have integrated the management of our Services Division 
with our Videocom Division, and have renamed the combined 
business the Broadcast Division. We now report our product 
sales and services to the Broadcast market as one Division.  
Our service activities performed well in 2014, including the 
benefit from contracts to supply the Sochi Winter Olympics and 
FIFA World Cup. We are concentrating on driving sales while 
securing attractive pricing for our premium services, improving 
asset utilisation, and managing the cost base effectively.
Our Photographic Division also performed well. Against a 
challenging market background, it has continued to gain share 
in some key markets and has improved its operating margin* 
percentage despite lower revenue. New products launched 
towards the end of 2013 and through 2014 performed well 
and include upgraded professional tripod ranges and Manfrotto 
professional bags. More recently we have launched the Off-
Road range of tripods and bags and these have received good 
initial feedback. We continue to grow sales through our owned 
distribution channels and make good progress with our online 
sales activities.
2014 performance overview
We have delivered a good performance in 2014 with revenue 
at constant exchange rates up 3.3% and profit before tax* 
9.1% higher. As expected, foreign exchange rates have 
negatively impacted our reported revenue and profits. 
Following our exit from the loss-making IMT business we are 
focused on our core Broadcast and Photographic markets 
supplemented with selective value-adding acquisitions. 
Vitec has continued to deliver its strategy and has 
performed well in 2014. Following our exit from 
the IMT business we are now focused on our core 
Broadcast and Photographic markets and are well 
positioned to benefit from any upturn in our markets. 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Group Chief Executive Stephen Bird  
reviews strategy and performance
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Group Chief Executive’s Review 
www.vitecgroup.com/ceo Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Our Broadcast Division performed well in a variable market 
including a strong performance from Teradek, acquired in 
the second half of 2013. We also benefited in 2014 from 
contracts to support the Sochi Winter Olympics and the FIFA 
World Cup. Our premium product and service offering was 
further strengthened through the acquisitions of SIS, Autocue 
and more recently SmallHD.
The Photographic Division has taken share in its key markets 
although we have seen a continuation of challenging 
conditions, particularly in the camera bags sector. Overall,  
we are pleased with the performance including the success 
of our new product launches.
We have continued to manage the Group’s operating 
expenses* through tight cost control in addition to the   
year-on-year benefit from previous restructuring activities.  
As a result we have maintained the Group’s operating margin* 
at 12.5% despite lower revenue. 
Profit before tax* of £35.3 million was £0.3 million lower than 
prior year although 9.1% higher at constant exchange rates. 
The reported Group profit before tax of £20.1 million (2013: 
£20.4 million) was after: £2.7 million of restructuring costs 
(2013: £11.4 million); £8.5 million charges associated with 
acquired businesses (2013: £3.8 million); and a £4.0 million 
loss arising from the disposal of the IMT business. 
Vitec continues to be a cash generative Group with free cash 
flow
+
 of £18.2 million (2013: £21.4 million) after £3.2 million  
of cash outflows on restructuring activities (2013: £7.9 million). 
The Group continues to have a strong balance sheet with net 
debt at 31 December 2014 at £70.9 million (31 December 
2013: £61.5 million) and a net debt to EBITDA ratio for 
covenants of 1.2 times (31 December 2013: 1.1 times).
Product development
We continue to invest in new products and enhancements  
to our existing product ranges and I am pleased with the new 
products that we have launched this year. The level of product 
development collaboration across our Divisions has also 
remained strong in 2014, including products such as the new 
range of Anton/Bauer batteries. Further examples of our new 
products can be seen in the Divisional case studies on pages 
25 to 27. We continue to invest around 4% of Group product 
sales into research, development and engineering.
Acquisitions and disposals
In addition to the disposal of IMT, as described earlier, we 
further strengthened the Group’s premium product and service 
offerings through three acquisitions in the year:
•   The speciality camera assets of SIS Outside Broadcasts 
Limited are renowned for the innovative solutions that deliver 
viewers to the heart of live events. This business has been 
successfully integrated into our Camera Corps business and 
has supported many sporting events including Test Cricket 
(with the Stump Cam), and in-boat footage at the Boat Race.
•   Autocue is a long established and highly respected 
brand  of teleprompting hardware and software which 
complements the Division’s existing Autoscript business.  
We completed the acquisition in October and have 
integrated this business into the Group. We will continue  
to develop and support this well-known premium brand. 
•   Our most recent acquisition was SmallHD, which was acquired 
in December and is a leading provider of high-quality, high 
definition on-camera field monitors designed around the 
growing number of independent content creators. The business 
complements the Broadcast Division’s existing video activities, 
including Teradek which serves a similar customer base.
We have a strong background in identifying, reviewing and 
executing on acquisitions and will continue to evaluate 
opportunities as and when they appear. 
Market overview
An overview of our two markets is provided on the  
following pages.
Approval of Strategic Report 
We have provided information in this report on our strategy, 
business model and objectives which is contained in the 
Strategic Report. You will find the Strategic Report on pages  
1 to 39 and its content has been approved by the Board.
Outlook
We achieved significant strategic progress in 2014 and 
focused the Group on its core Broadcast and Photographic 
activities. Vitec is well positioned to benefit from any upturn 
in its markets. While some markets remain challenging, the 
Board remains confident about the prospects for the Group.
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive
24 February 2015
Strategic Report
Market updates
Turn to page 14 to 17
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
