 2 The Vitec Group plc
Performance and dividend
Vitec has delivered a good performance in 2014 and successfully executed its strategy 
of focusing on its core markets. It has made three value-adding acquisitions and 
continued to deliver strong margins. As a consequence of this performance and   
the Board’s continuing confidence in our future, we recommend a final dividend of  
14.7 pence per ordinary share (2013: 14.1 pence). The final dividend, subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual General Meeting will be paid on Friday,   
15 May 2015. This brings the total dividend for 2014 to 24.0 pence per share  
(2013: 23 pence).
Strategy and Board focus
A key area of focus for the Board in 2014 has been an in-depth review of the Group’s 
strategy. As part of this we exited the IMT business in November 2014 to focus on our 
core Broadcast and Photographic end markets. We believe these markets present 
the best growth opportunities going forward. The Company’s unique brands, product 
technology, first class manufacturing operations and marketing skills ensure that it is 
well placed to achieve its strategy of providing vital products and services that support 
the capture and sharing of exceptional images. Stephen Bird, our Group Chief 
Executive, gives further detail on our strategy in his report and the Board will continue 
to track progress and performance against the agreed strategic objectives.
Chairman’s Statement
Total dividend for 2014
Recommended final dividend  
per share
Interim dividend per share
24.0 pence
14.7 pence
9.3 pence
The Group has delivered a good performance in 
2014. It is now focused on its core Broadcast and 
Photographic markets and is well positioned to 
benefit from any upturn in these markets. 
Governance Report 
Turn to page 38
Chairman’s Statement 
www.vitecgroup.com/chairman
Up  
4.3%
Chairman John McDonough  
reports on a good performance Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Governance and tone from the top
In late 2013 we appointed Mark Rollins, Lorraine Rienecker 
and Christopher Humphrey as Non-Executive Directors of  
the Company. Their appointments have refreshed the Board 
bringing in new skills and widening our diversity. In the first  
half of 2014, we ensured that each of these newly appointed 
directors undertook a detailed induction to the Group involving 
visits to our principal operations in the US, Italy and the UK  
in addition to meeting with a wide number of our senior 
management team and people. To understand the Group  
in a wider context, each has also met with our key advisors. 
I have also continued with visits during the year to several  
of our operations in Italy, the US and the UK, as well as 
meeting with several of our major shareholders to discuss  
the Company’s performance, strategic direction and 
governance arrangements.
The culmination of the new directors’ induction to the Group 
was the Board’s visit in October 2014 to the Group’s 
operations in Los Angeles involving visits to Teradek and Bexel, 
receiving market updates from senior management and seeing 
our products and services in operation on the set of “Hell’s 
Kitchen”. We will continue with the practice of the Board 
visiting our principal operations each year to ensure that  
we meet with a wide number of employees and receive first 
hand feedback on emerging technology and end markets.
One important aspect of visiting operations and meeting with 
our employees is setting the right “tone from the top” in terms 
of good corporate governance. Governance is not just a set  
of rules but also entails setting values and principles that 
resonate with all our employees and stakeholders. This 
includes a robust approach to health and safety, rigorous 
financial controls and ensuring that our employees have  
a common set of values and beliefs. This is best evidenced  
by our Code of Business Conduct that every employee   
has received and is available on our website. The Board will 
continue to develop the Company’s governance arrangements 
and the Governance section of this Annual Report on pages 
38 to 55 explains how we intend to do this.
As part of the Board’s continuing evolution, Nigel Moore will  
be standing down as a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director at the 
close of the 2015 Annual General Meeting. Nigel has been an 
excellent Non-Executive Director of the Company for over ten 
years and on behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would 
like to thank him for his dedicated service and wise counsel. 
As part of our succession planning for the Board, we propose 
that Christopher Humphrey will succeed Nigel as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. Christopher is a Chartered Management 
Accountant who is currently Chief Executive of Anite plc and 
has the required skills and relevant financial experience to chair 
the Audit Committee. We also propose that Mark Rollins  
will succeed Nigel as Senior Independent Director. Mark has 
extensive experience as a director of listed companies with  
a wide experience of shareholder matters during his most 
recent role as Chief Executive of Senior plc.
With these changes, the Board will comprise seven directors 
with a good balance of skills and diversity to meet the 
challenges of our end markets.
A further area of focus in 2014 for the Board was an externally 
facilitated and independent Board evaluation. The key 
conclusion is that your Board is an effective body with   
clear objectives and a transparent, down to earth style and 
behaviour. The Governance section of this Annual Report sets 
out the process and outputs of this external Board evaluation.
Annual General Meeting
Our Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be on Tuesday,  
12 May 2015 and the Notice of Meeting and explanatory  
notes accompanies this Annual Report and can be found  
on our website. All resolutions at the AGM will be conducted 
on a poll as we believe that this is more democratic, enabling 
the views of a wider number of shareholders to be taken into 
account by way of proxies being voted. All members of the 
Board will be attending the AGM and we look forward to  
the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
Our people
After a challenging year and delivery of a good financial 
performance for our shareholders, I would like to thank all  
of our people for their considerable contribution in 2014.  
The success of the Company is down to the continuing hard 
work, passion and dedication of our people in delivering our 
strategy despite challenging market conditions.
John McDonough CBE 
Chairman
24 February 2015
Strategic Report
