 4										The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011
Chairman	Michael	Harper		
looks	ahead	with	confidence
Chairman’ s	Statement
Y our	Company	is	well	positioned	and	the	Boar d	is	confident	in	the	pr ospects	for	futur e	
gr owth	with	a	clear	strategy ,	excellent	pr oducts,	a	focused	and	dedicated	management	
team	and	an	appr opriate	level	of	committed	finance	to	support	delivery .
Revenue	was	£351.0	million	compar ed	to	£309.6	million	in	2010		
(13.4%	higher).	W e	ar e	pleased	to	have	deliver ed	pr ofit	befor e	tax*	of	
£33.0	million	compar ed	to	£26.7	million	in	2010.	Basic	ear nings	per	
shar e	befor e	Significant	items	ar e	51.4	pence	compar ed	to	41.9	pence		
in	2010.	This	r esult	has	been	deliver ed	against	the	backgr ound	of	
continuing	uncertainty	in	the	global	economy	and	investment	in	our	
business,	notably	the	Manfr otto	Powerbrand	initiative.	Y our	Company		
is	well	positioned	and	the	Boar d	is	confident	in	the	pr ospects	for	futur e	
gr owth	with	a	clear	strategy ,	excellent	pr oducts,	a	focused	and	dedicated	
management	team	and	an	appr opriate	level	of	committed	finance	to	
support	delivery .
The	Boar d	has	r ecommended	a	final	dividend	of	12.5	pence	per	shar e	
(2010:	11.4	pence	per	shar e)	that	will	be	subject	to	appr oval	at	the	
Company’ s	Annual	General	Meeting	to	be	held	on	T uesday ,	8	May	2012.	
If	appr oved,	the	final	dividend	will	be	paid	on	Friday ,	11	May	2012	to	
shar eholders	on	the	r egister	at	the	close	of	business	on	Friday ,	20	April	
2012.	The	full	year	dividend	of	20.5	pence	per	shar e	(2010:	19.0	pence	
per	shar e)	equates	to	a	dividend	cover	of	2.5	times	(2010:	2.2	times)	
based	on	basic	ear nings	per	shar e	befor e	Significant	items.	W e	will	again	
be	of fering	the	Dividend	Reinvestment	Plan	for	the	final	dividend	to	enable	
shar eholders	to	r einvest	their	dividend	into	V itec	shar es	should	they	wish.
The	Gr oup	has	achieved	str ong	r esults		
for	2011	despite	an	uncertain	economy ,	
building	on	our	Thr ee	Market	Strategy	with	
both	organic	gr owth	and	the	acquisitions		
of	Lastolite	and	Haigh-Farr .	 The Vitec Group plc	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2011										5
Significant	pr ogr ess	has	been	
made	in	2011	on	the	gr owth	
strategy .	The	br oadcast	and	video	
market	continued	to	r ecover .		
Our	pr oduct	businesses	have	each	
performed	str ongly ,	especially	in	
the	Asian	and	Middle	East	markets.	
In	the	photographic	market,	we	
began	to	see	the	benefits	of	
impr oved	sales	thanks	to	the	
launch	of	an	integrated	range	of	
pr oducts	under	the	Manfr otto	
brand.	This	range	was	only	fully	
distributed	thr oughout	our	key	
markets	fr om	September	2011		
and	we	have	gained	market	shar e	
since	then.	The	MAG	market	has	
pr oven	mor e	challenging	given	the	
backgr ound	of	potential	defence	
spending	constraints	but	law	
enfor cement	r emains	r esilient.		
W e	continue	to	pursue	significant	
acquisition	opportunities	in	this	
market	with	our	pr oven	technology .	
T o	support	our	gr owth	strategy		
we	made	two	acquisitions	in		
2011.	In	Mar ch	2011	we	acquir ed	
Lastolite	for	consideration	of	up		
to	£9.8	million.	This	UK	based	
business	is	a	leading	designer ,	
manufactur er	and	supplier	of	
lighting	contr ol	accessories	and	
backgr ounds	for	the	photo,	video	
and	cinema	industry .	Since	
acquisition	this	business	has		
been	successfully	integrated	into	
the	Gr oup	and	is	p e r f o r m i n g 	 i n	 	
line 	 with 	 expectations. 	In	mid-
December	2011,	we	acquir ed	
Haigh-Farr ,	a	world	leader	in		
the	design,	development	and	
manufactur e	of	flight	body	
antennae	for	simple	and	
sophisticated	communication	
applications	for	an	initial	cash	
consideration	of	$31.0	million		
(£20.0	million).	Haigh-Farr	will	
complement	the	existing	MAG	
activities	of	the	Gr oup.	
The	Boar d	has	undergone	a	series	 	
of	changes	in	2011.	W ill	Wyatt	
stood	down	fr om	the	Boar d		
after	nine	years’	service	at	the	
conclusion	of	the	Annual	General	
Meeting	on	19	May	2011.		
I	would	like	to	place	on	r ecor d	the	
Boar d’ s	thanks	to	W ill	who	gave	
valuable	service	during	this	period,	
notably	to	the	Remuneration	
Committee	and	in	the	r ole	of	Senior	
Independent	Dir ector .	Nigel	Moor e	
has	succeeded	W ill	as	Senior	
Independent	Dir ector .	Following	
Richar d	Cotton	leaving	as	Gr oup	
Finance	Dir ector	on	4	February	
2011	we	have	appointed	Paul	
Hayes	as	Gr oup	Finance	Dir ector	
with	ef fect	fr om	13	June	2011.	
Nick	Humby	acted	as	Interim		
Chief	Financial	Officer	in	the		
period	between	these	changes		
and	pr ovided	excellent	support	to	
the	Boar d	in	this	r ole.	The	Boar d	
has	also	focused	on	succession	
amongst	the	independent	Non-
Executive	Dir ectors	taking	into	
account	the	need	for	the	right	skills	
and	diversity .	The	Boar d	appointed	
John	Hughes	with	ef fect	fr om		
11	Mar ch	2011	and	Car olyn	
Fairbair n	with	ef fect	fr om		
1	February	2012	as	independent	
Non-Executive	Dir ectors.	Both	
bring	excellent	skills	to	the	Boar d	
particularly	in	the	MAG	and	
Br oadcast	sectors	and	listed	
company	envir onment.	
During	2011	the	Boar d	has	
undertaken	its	first	exter nally	
facilitated	evaluation	in	compliance	
with	the	UK	Corporate	Gover nance	
Code.	The	output	is	summarised		
in	gr eater	detail	in	the	Corporate	
Gover nance	section	of	the	Annual	
Report,	however	the	headline	
output	is	that	the	Boar d	is	highly	
capable,	ef fective	and	compliant,		
and	has	str ong	gover nance		
in	place.	The	Boar d	further	
consider ed	the	issue	of	diversity		
in	light	of	Lor d	Davies’	r eport	on	
W omen	on	Boar ds	and	the	need	
for	companies	to	r eport	on	the	
issue	of	diversity .	W e	published	our	
diversity	statement	in	September	
2011	and	ar e	working	in	
accor dance	with	it.	
Finally ,	on	behalf	of	the	Boar d		
I 	 would 	 like 	 to 	 thank 	 our 	 employees	
for	their	commitment	to,	and	
passion	for ,	the	Company ,	
particularly	enabling	significant	
pr ogr ess	on	the	Thr ee	Market	
Strategy	and	delivering	a		
good	r esult	for	2011.
Michael Harper
Chairman
*		 Befor e	Significant	items.	Significant	items	ar e	those	items	of	financial	performance	that	the	Dir ectors	consider	should	be	separately	disclosed	to	assist	in		
the	understanding	of	the	underlying	trading	and	financial	performance	achieved	by	the	Gr oup	(see	Note	2.2	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements	2011).
