 Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
10
RUSSELL EDEy
Chairman
Chairman’s 
statement
I am pleased to report that over the course of 
201 1, the Company has made significant steps 
towards its strategy of becoming a leading West 
African gold mining and exploration company.  Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
11
When I took over as Chairman in 
September 2010, I recognised that Avocet 
was a company that combined a solid 
history of gold production and exploration 
with some promising new assets in a 
developing region, under the management 
of an ambitious and energetic team. I am 
pleased to report that over the course of 
2011, the Company has made significant 
steps towards its strategy of becoming a 
leading West African gold mining and 
exploration company.
The decision to divest the Company’s 
South East Asian assets was bold, given 
the historic associations with the region, 
but clearly the right strategic call. The 
consideration received of US$200 million 
surpassed market expectations. The funds 
have given the Company’s balance sheet 
strength at a time when finance is not 
always easily obtained, and are being 
invested in the growth of the Company in 
West Africa. 
In July, the Company announced its 
intention to pay a maiden dividend of 
US$20 million per annum, to be paid as 
interim and final dividends. This reflects our 
confidence in the cash generating ability of 
the Inata Gold Mine in Burkina Faso and, by 
returning earnings to shareholders, sets 
Avocet apart from many peers, at a time 
when dividend payments are particularly 
welcome to investors. 
In December 2011, the Company 
successfully completed its move from the 
AIM Market to the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange. The Company 
is now listed on two regulated markets – 
Oslo and London with the latter being the 
primary listing – and it is expected that this 
will generate additional investor interest. 
The Company will be considered for 
inclusion in the FTSE 250 index in March 
2012 which should add to this interest. 
Looking ahead, we are undertaking studies 
into an increase in production from the Inata 
Gold Mine where significant increases in 
Mineral Resources and Reserves have 
recently been confirmed. 
In Guinea our exploration expenditure has 
been rewarded by a tripling in the Mineral 
Resources at Koulékoun. Discussions are 
taking place between our management and 
the Government of Guinea to establish a 
mutually satisfactory basis upon which any 
mine which we might establish in that 
country will operate and be taxed.
This year’s Annual General Meeting will  
be held at the offices of our brokers  
J.P. Morgan Cazenove on Wednesday  
3 May 2012. There will be an opportunity  
for shareholders to submit questions in 
advance, if they wish, to be dealt with 
during the AGM. The AGM circular 
enclosed with this report includes further 
details of the meeting, the resolutions to be 
proposed and the procedure for submitting 
questions ahead of the meeting.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
the entire Avocet team for their discipline 
and dedication towards achieving all of the 
Company’s stated 2011 objectives, and for 
their positive contribution in the countries 
in which we do business. Without the 
commitment of all the employees, the 
Company would not have been able to 
fulfil its strategic initiatives and deliver value 
to its shareholders. 
As stated last year, I remain positive about 
the outlook for the gold price in 2012 and 
about the Company’s continued success.
RUSSELL EDEy
Chairman
In July, the Company 
announced its intention to 
pay a maiden dividend of 
US$20 million per annum
