 Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
12
BRETT RIch ARDS
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s 
review
201 1 was a year of dramatic change for Avocet.  
In 2010 we embarked on a strategy to transform 
the Company into a leading West African gold 
mining and exploration company. By the end of 
201 1 we had achieved all of the objectives that we 
set eighteen months ago to realise this change.  Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
13
Gold production from continuing 
operations (ounces)
Average realised gold price (US$/oz.)
1
2010 2011
137,732
166,744
2010 2011
1,174
1,301
2010 2011
17,169
40,322
2010 2011
54,597
84,145
2011 was a year of dramatic change for 
Avocet. In 2010 we embarked on a strategy 
to transform the Company into a leading 
West African gold mining and exploration 
company. By the end of 2011 we had 
achieved all of the objectives that we set 
eighteen months ago to realise this change. 
During 2011, the environment in which the 
Company operates also saw dramatic 
change. Demand for gold continued to rise 
as global economic uncertainties persisted, 
with a record price of US$1,920 per ounce 
achieved in September 2011. The European 
debt crisis and continued speculation of 
quantitative easing in the United States 
reinforced gold’s position in the investment 
markets as a relative safe haven. Whilst 
the impact of higher prices achieved was 
certainly to our advantage, pricing pressures 
on input materials and services in the gold 
mining sector increased in line with the 
escalation in gold price. In particular, 
the strong rise in fuel prices, which have a 
general correlation to gold prices, significantly 
impacted production cash costs and 
profitability for the industry as a whole. 
The socio-political environment in West 
Africa remained broadly stable during 2011. 
The governments of both Burkina Faso and 
Guinea continue to be strong supporters of 
the gold industry as a catalyst for economic 
development. In Burkina Faso, a short 
period of social unrest occurred in late April, 
triggering a spike in retail fuel costs, food 
costs and other staples across the country. 
This social tension was exacerbated by 
strike action in the military over a wage 
dispute, which led to widespread strike 
action across the country, including at the 
Inata Gold Mine and most of the country’s 
other mines. Negotiations with our 
employees were concluded within a week, 
resulting in an acceptable wage increase 
and a peaceful return to work.
In September 2011, the Government of 
Guinea passed a new Mining Code into 
law, with the objective of ensuring a fair 
return from mining activities for the 
people of Guinea. The new Mining Code 
was intended to improve the financial 
transparency and environmental 
responsibility of mining companies, whilst 
promoting foreign inward investment. Many 
provisions in the previous 1995 Mining 
Code remained intact, including the 
Government’s existing 15% free carried 
interest in mining ventures. However, there 
were several material changes in the new 
code which are currently undergoing 
public review and scrutiny to calibrate their 
alignment to the mandate of ensuring a 
fair return from mining activities, whilst 
balancing the promotion and attraction of 
new investment in the sector in Guinea. 
Changes include an option for the 
Government to purchase an additional 
20% equity interest for cash; a maximum 
number and size of exploration permits to be 
held in specific commodities; and certain 
quotas to encourage the employment of 
Guinean nationals. Many observers in 
Guinea believe that amendments to the 
new Mining Code are likely to be made over 
the coming months to ensure optimum 
alignment to the mandate. 
EBIDTA from continuing operations 
(US$000)
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
from continuing operations (US$000)
1 Relates to continuing operations only and excludes the results from South East Asian operations in the year. Includes 
hedge sales in 2011 of 75,869 at an average price of US$966 per ounce (2010: 51,199 ounces at US$970 per ounce). Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
14
August
 
In August 2011, a sustainable development 
project was launched in partnership with 
local villages to recycle mine waste into 
usable items for the community.
As at November 2011, the Inata Gold Mine achieved in 
excess of six million man hours without injury since the 
mine opened in December 2009, making it an industry 
leader in safety practices in West Africa.
November
 
In November 2011, the Company announced its intention 
to move from AIM to seek admission to the Official List 
and to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s Main 
Market. Trading on the Main Market commenced on  
8 December.
The company delivered increased production, doubled Mineral 
Reserves and increased Mineral Resources at the Inata Gold 
Mine. This was achieved whilst maintaining a solid safety record 
for its employees. In Guinea, the Mineral Resources for the Tri-K 
project rose to 2.24 million ounces. Avocet moved from AIM to 
the London Stock Exchange’s Main Market.
In addition to this, the Company has continued to support local 
community and environment projects including the waste 
management programme which you will read more about below.
Year in review
Chief Executive’s review continued Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
15
October
 
Mining commences at Inata Far South pit. The opening 
of this third pit allows for flexibility of mine scheduling and 
optimal ore blending.
The processing plant at Inata reaches its ramped up 
capacity of 340 tonnes per hour, an increase of 18% over 
the prior year.
December
 
The Company issued a Mineral Resource 
update for the Tri-K block in Guinea of 2.24 
million ounces, exceeding the stated target 
of 2 million ounces by the year end.
April
Avocet progresses stated intention to 
double Mineral Reserves at the Inata Gold 
Mine with initial Mineral Resources increase 
to 2. 12 million ounces. Final Mineral Reserve 
update as at 31 December double reserves  
to 1.85 million ounces. Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
16
Chief Executive’s review continued
Sale of South East Asian assets
US$200million
STRATEGIc DEVELo PMENTS
The first step towards growing the Company 
into a leading West African gold mining 
and exploration company was to focus 
the Company’s asset base exclusively on 
West Africa. 
In late December 2010 we announced the 
sale of our South East Asian assets to 
J&Partners for US$200 million. The sale 
was substantially completed by June 2011 
by which date US$170 million had been 
received. A further US$27 million of 
proceeds was received in September 2011 
bringing the total consideration received in 
2011 to US$197 million. A further US$2 
million was received on 16 February 2012, 
following the sale of a remaining exploration 
asset, for a total received of US$199 million. 
In April 2011, Avocet was informed that a 
law suit had been filed against it in the 
District Court of Jakarta, Indonesia by PT 
Lebong Tandai (‘PT LT’), Avocet’s former 
partner in a joint venture in Indonesia. The 
law suit relates to a challenge as to the 
legality of the sale of Avocet’s South East 
Asian assets. PT LT asserts that it is entitled 
to acquire all of these assets pursuant to an 
agreement allegedly entered into between 
PT LT and Avocet in April 2010. In 
November 2011, Avocet challenged the 
jurisdiction of the District Court to hear the 
law suit on the basis that PT LT and Avocet 
were obligated under the terms of their joint 
venture to settle any dispute through 
arbitration. In addition, Avocet challenged 
the court’s jurisdiction on the grounds that 
Avocet is not subject to the Indonesian 
courts as it has no presence in Indonesia. 
The District Court subsequently found in 
Avocet’s favour and dismissed the case.  
PT LT has since lodged an appeal to the 
Indonesian High Court against the District 
Court’s decision. Despite the appeal by  
PT LT, which may take several months, the 
Board of Avocet is encouraged that the 
District Court has ruled in Avocet’s favour in 
the first instance. The Board also remains 
confident that all the actions taken in 
respect of the transaction have been in 
accordance with prevailing rules and 
regulations and there are no grounds for 
any such legal action.
Having substantially completed the 
divestment of our South East Asian 
interests, developing and growing the 
Company’s assets in West Africa was and 
remains our key strategic objective.
In July 2011, the Board made a commitment 
to invest US$20 million per year over three 
years in exploration in the Bélahouro District 
to facilitate Mineral Resource development 
and Mineral Reserve replenishment. This 
commitment facilitated one of the largest 
exploration drilling programmes in the 
region over the course of 2011, and 
resulted in a significant increase of the Inata 
Mineral Resource to 3.46 million ounces. 
Furthermore, Inata’s Mineral Reserves were 
increased to 1.85 million ounces, equivalent 
to a life of mine of 12.5 years at current 
capacity and production profile of the Inata 
Gold Mine. Together with Mineral Resource 
increases at our Tri-K project in Guinea, 
the Company has seen Group Mineral 
Resources double to 6.26 million ounces 
over 2011. 
A scoping study was initiated in the third 
quarter of 2011 to assess how best to 
further increase the Inata Gold Mine’s 
production profile in the coming years. 
Based on the scoping study work to date, 
and the new larger reserve, the Company 
remains committed to an expansion 
targeted at 245,000 ounces of gold 
production per annum by the end of 2013. 
Following a period of lower recoveries 
during Q3 associated with processing 
carbonaceous ore, Inata’s strong fourth 
quarter indicated that the impact of carbon 
is not unduly affecting the mine’s 
performance. Although the study has not 
yet concluded, current indications are 
that the ability to process carbonaceous 
ore with high recoveries will increasingly 
add value throughout the life of mine, either 
in the form of a new plant or through 
expansion and modification of the existing 
plant. Further metallurgical test work is 
required over the coming months in order 
to determine the optimum processing 
methods, plant configuration and location.
Inata’s Mineral Reserves 
were increased to 1.85 
million ounces, equivalent 
to a life of mine of 12.5 
years at current capacity. Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
17
Sale of South East Asian assets
US$200million
The opportunity exists while planning the 
expansion scenarios, to address the longer 
term issues that typically arise later in a 
mine’s life (processing harder rock, deeper 
pits, lower grade and more carbonaceous 
ore) by configuring a plant capable of 
maximising gold production from different 
ore types. The study has considered ore 
sources from mineralised areas within the 
Inata mine licence area, as well as potential 
mineralisation outside the mine licence 
area, including Damba, Pali, Ouzemi, Filio, 
Kourfadie and Dynamite and Miiliam on the 
Souma Trend. Emphasis has therefore been 
placed not only on maximising the potential 
of the existing Mineral Reserve, but also on 
being able to exploit new reserve additions 
within the large Bélahouro district. Potential 
process plant options considered by the 
scoping study have included a heap leach 
operation, expansion of the existing plant, 
construction of a new plant, and a 
combination of these. 
Early analysis showed that the heap leach 
option could prove to be a means of 
providing expanded production quickly and 
with relatively low capital expenditure, 
however in order for the heap leach option 
to be optimal as the first phase of 
expansion, it will have to be shown that 
sufficient quantities of low grade oxide 
material exist within the Inata Mine Licence 
Area. Expanding the existing plant also 
represents an opportunity to increase gold 
production at relatively low capex, but with 
most of the new pits being developed to 
the south or potentially at Souma in the 
east, haul distances and costs would be 
increased, while some modifications would 
also be required to allow the plant to fully 
exploit harder or more carbonaceous 
ore feed. The construction of a new plant, 
capable of processing all types of ore 
including carbonaceous material, may 
entai slightly higher capital expenditure but 
would provide more flexibility in terms of 
configuration and location, while optimising 
processing efficiency and gold production.
The Company’s expertise in dealing with 
carbonaceous ore is a key advantage. 
Resin-in-leach processing, as used in the 
Company’s former mine in Malaysia, could 
be considered for a new plant or as a 
modification to the existing plant. Expansion 
work will therefore require focused 
metallurgical test work, mineral distribution 
analysis and carbon modelling of the 
mineral resources and reserves in and 
around Inata during the remainder of the 
first half of 2012, with a view to determining 
the optimum expansion plant configuration 
and location by the middle of the year. The 
Company would then expect permitting and 
construction to take place in the remainder 
of 2012 and into late 2013, with start-up of 
expanded production likely to commence 
thereafter. Further updates on the Inata 
expansion will be made over the coming 
months as we progress through the study 
and test work.
In July of 2011, Inata’s gold hedge was 
restructured, with 20% of the hedge book 
being eliminated at a cost of approximately 
US$40 million, and the remaining position 
of 233,733 ounces being rescheduled over 
seven years. Deliveries are now 8,250 
ounces per quarter through to June 2018 at 
a price of US$950 per ounce as opposed 
to the initial schedule of 25,000 ounces per 
quarter at US$970 per ounce. As a result of 
the restructure, the proportion of Inata’s 
current annual production that is exposed 
to spot prices doubled from 40% to 
approximately 80%. 
In July 2011 the Company announced the 
adoption of a regular dividend policy. The 
Company’s policy is to pay dividends at an 
initial level of approximately US$20 million 
per annum, one third as an interim dividend 
and two thirds as a final dividend. This level 
of payment strikes a balance between 
returning profit to shareholders and being 
able to invest in the growth of our business. 
An interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share 
was paid on 30 September 2011. The 
Board has proposed a final dividend of 4.2 
pence per share, which would give a total 
dividend for the year of 6.3 pence per 
share, which is expected to result in an 
aggregate payment for the year of US$20.0 
million in line with the stated dividend policy. 
This final dividend is subject to shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting on 
3 May 2012, and if approved, will be paid on 
1 June 2012 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 11 May 2012. 
In view of the Company’s many strategic 
accomplishments, the Avocet Board took a 
decision in the third quarter to seek 
admission to the Official List of the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange. This 
admission was duly granted and trading on 
the London Stock Exchange commenced 
on 8 December 2011. Avocet remains listed 
on the Oslo Børs in Norway, where over 
35% of its shares are held, however the 
Company’s primary listing is now in 
London. Avocet’s shares are expected to 
be included in the FTSE 250 Index at the 
next inclusion date of 7 March 2012. Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
18
Chief Executive’s review continued
EXPLoRATI oN REVIEW
During 2010 the Company set itself a target 
of doubling the size of the Mineral Reserve 
at the Inata Gold Mine, based on successful 
increases in the mine’s Mineral Resource. 
Our other strategic exploration objective 
has been to advance the Koulékoun gold 
project in Guinea towards a feasibility study. 
In addition to these objectives, the 
Company’s longer term growth aspirations 
are being supported by the development of 
a pipeline of prospects in the surrounding 
permits in both Burkina Faso and Guinea. 
During 2011, Avocet spent US$34 million 
on exploration in West Africa. To facilitate 
further growth, a decision was made in July 
of 2011 to invest US$20 million per annum 
in exploration expenditure in Burkina Faso 
and a similar amount in Guinea. 
Following a successful exploration campaign 
in 2011, the Group’s Mineral Resource base 
in West Africa has now increased to 6.26 
million ounces, an increase of 165%, or 
nearly 4 million ounces, compared with the 
2.38 million ounces at the time of the Wega 
Mining acquisition in 2009. Mineral Reserves 
at Inata have doubled in the same timeframe, 
despite mining depletion of 337,000 ounces.
At Inata, the Company drilled 47,400 metres 
of reverse circulation (RC) and 33,300 
metres of diamond (DD) and RC with 
Diamond tail drill holes in the calendar year. 
This programme resulted in the doubling of 
the Inata Mineral Resource by the end of 
the year with Measured and Indicated 
Mineral Resources of 57.3Mt @ 1.45 g/t Au 
containing 2.68 million ounces and Inferred 
Mineral Resources of 17.8Mt @ 1.36 g/t Au 
containing 0.78 million ounces gold. 
The Mineral Resource grew at depth, 
particularly at Inata North, and through the 
discovery of parallel zones within the Inata 
Trend and new zones of mineralisation on 
the parallel east-west Minfo Trend to the 
south. The latter is particularly important, as 
the discovery of the Minfo East prospect 
along the Minfo Trend highlighted the 
potential for significant mineralisation along 
a longer strike length than previously 
appreciated. In addition, current knowledge 
indicates the presence of a parallel zone of 
mineralisation approximately 70 metres to 
the north, which could result in a reduction 
in current stripping ratios if both zones can 
be mined from a single pit.
Exploration work continued throughout the 
year in the broader Bélahouro region, where 
Avocet holds exploration licences covering 
over 1,634 square kilometres. Scout drilling 
of the Pali and Filio prospects identified 
additional mineralised targets that will be 
further developed in 2012. 
Early in 2011 a helicopter-borne geophysical 
VTEM survey was undertaken across the 
Tri-K block of permits in northeast Guinea. 
The survey identified a number of 
conductive anomalies at Kodiafaran and in 
the Koulékoun District, as well as two large 
bodies of granite that appeared to have 
gold mineralisation focused on their 
margins namely Kodiéran and Gbinli. These 
conductive and resistive anomalies pointed 
to a number of targets that will be followed 
up with drilling in 2012. 
Over the remainder of the year 33,900 
metres of RC and 15,400 metres of DD 
drilling at Koulékoun were completed. The 
result of this drilling was an increase in the 
Mineral Resource by 175% to 1.83 million 
ounces. Koulékoun is now defined by 
Indicated Mineral Resources of 21.6Mt @ 
1.44 g/t Au containing 1.00 million ounces 
gold and Inferred Mineral Resources of 
22.6Mt @ 1.15 g/t Au containing 0.83 million 
ounces gold. Drill results also indicated 
that the Mineral Resource is hosted in a 
40–80m thick zone of north-northwest-
striking porphyry dyke. This primary ore 
body has been drilled over a strike length 
of 2,000 metres and to a vertical depth of 
350 metres and has proven to be broad 
and tabular in structure. Resource grades 
occur over a strike length of 950 metres 
and the mineralisation is open at depth. 
The porphyry is cut by a northeast-striking 
structure and gold grades are locally higher 
in the pipe formed by the intersection of this 
structure with the porphyry. The structure 
adds Mineral Resources in the hanging wall 
to the main porphyry, which will reduce the 
amount of waste in an open pit and reduce 
the stripping ratio.
Over the year 18,000 metres of RC drilling 
were undertaken at Kodiéran, which 
identified a maiden Inferred Mineral 
Resource of 7.3Mt @ 1.79 g/t Au containing 
0.41 million ounces gold. New resource 
candidates at Fowaro and Kourounin were 
also identified. Scout drilling of 10,400 
metres RC at Balandougou intersected gold 
mineralisation that requires follow up drilling 
in 2012. 19
Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Group’s Mineral Resource Base 
6.26million oz.
Invested in West African exploration
US$34million
During 2010 the Company set itself 
a target of doubling the size of 
the Mineral Reserve at the Inata 
Gold Mine, based on successful 
increases in the mine’s Mineral 
Resource. Our other strategic 
exploration objective has been to 
advance the Koulékoun gold 
project in Guinea towards a 
feasibility study. Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
20
Chief Executive’s review continued
oPERATI oNS REVIEW
The Inata Gold Mine is 220 km north of the 
capital of Burkina Faso, Ouagadougou on 
the edges of the Birimian greenstone belt. 
The mine is owned by Société des Mines 
de Bélahouro SA (SMB) of which Avocet 
owns 90% and the government of Burkina 
Faso the remaining 10%. 
After the Inata Gold Mine’s first full year of 
production in 2010, mining continued to 
ramp up in 2011. A decision was reached 
in late 2010 to increase the plant capacity 
from 287 tonnes per hour to 340 tonnes 
per hour and to increase mining capacity 
to deliver the necessary ore feed to achieve 
as much. The expansion in plant capacity 
was successfully implemented and the 
target processing rate was reached on 
schedule in the third quarter of 2011 with 
commissioning of the third mining fleet 
during the same quarter. From an initial 
overall mine capacity of approximately 
12Mt per annum in early 2010, this had 
risen to approximately 30Mt per annum 
during the fourth quarter of 2011. As well as 
allowing ore mining to match the increased 
plant throughput, the increased mining 
rates in 2011 allowed the mine to handle 
the higher stripping ratios demanded by 
the Mineral Reserve increase announced 
in September 2010. Combined with 
good plant availabilities, the feed rate of 
340 tonnes per hour meant that tonnes 
processed were 40% higher than the 
prior year at 2.5 million tonnes.
The increase in milling capacity was 
matched by the addition of a second elution 
column in the final recovery circuit. This 
facility will not only reduce the operational 
risk posed by having a single line circuit, 
but more importantly improves the carbon 
management and regeneration capacity as 
well as minimising the gold in circuit at any 
point in time. 
In addition to focusing on plant capacity, 
considerable effort has been made during 
2011 to reduce plant maintenance costs 
and improve plant availabilities. Several 
initiatives have been undertaken, 
particularly with regard to re-engineering 
high wear areas of the plant. These have 
been successfully implemented and the 
average availability for the year was 89% 
after taking the industrial action work 
stoppages in May into account. 
Inata Gold Mine  
Production statistics 2011 2010
Ore mined (k tonnes) 2,494 1,879
Waste mined (k tonnes) 22,707 11,430
Total mined (k tonnes) 25,201 13,309
Ore processed (k tonnes) 2,471 1,759
Average head grade (g/t) 2.26 2.66
Process recovery rate 91% 94%
Gold produced (oz.) 166,744 137,732
c ash costs (US$/oz.)
Mining 217 130
Processing 244 210
Administration 139 129
Royalties 93 62
693 531 Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
21
Considerable investment also took place 
during the year to reduce the risk to 
operations by reviewing our stock of 
critical spares and all reasonable measures 
have now been undertaken to ensure the 
high levels of availability are maintained 
going forward.
A similar process was adopted in the Heavy 
Duty Maintenance section with regards to 
the maintenance of the mining fleet. This 
area benefited from the construction of new 
workshops which have not only had a 
positive impact on availabilities, but also 
now facilitate the planned maintenance 
component rebuild schedule. The 
combination of a sound maintenance 
philosophy and modern condition 
monitoring techniques has enabled the lives 
of several major components to be safely 
extended with considerable cost saving 
benefits.
Mining during the first half of the year was 
primarily from the Inata North but by 
September 2011 this starter pit had 
essentially been depleted and, 
consequently, the prime source of ore since 
then was and will continue to be from the 
Inata Central pit. This was supplemented by 
ore from the Inata Far South pit, where 
mining commenced in the fourth quarter 
of 2011. The stripping of the Sayouba and 
Inata South pits will commence in March 
and October 2012 respectively. 
In 2011 head grade dropped to 2.26 from 
2.66 g/t Au in 2010. As the Mineral Reserve 
grade is 1.70 g/t Au, head grades will trend 
towards this average over the longer term. 
Resources at Minfo Trends are higher 
grade, which when converted to Mineral 
Reserves are expected to have a positive 
impact on the life of mine grade. 
During the second half of the year, 
especially in the third quarter, processing  
of a high proportion of carbonaceous  
ore from deeper in the Inata North pit 
impacted recoveries, and this, together  
with lower head grades and higher plant 
throughput rates meant that gold recoveries 
reduced from 94% in 2010 to 91% in 2011. 
The mine’s geology department is 
compiling a carbon model for the Inata Gold 
Mine to better understand the location and 
impact of carbon in the ore body. Studies 
are also underway to optimise plant 
recoveries and to mitigate preg-robbing. 
Together with the commissioning of a 
gravity circuit and additional carbon 
regeneration capacity in early 2012, these 
measures will ensure optimal recoveries 
going forward, as will Avocet’s experience 
in managing carbonaceous ore in South 
East Asia. 
In total, the Inata Gold Mine currently has 
three operating open pits that allow for 
flexibility to blend ore optimally, thereby 
facilitating stable recovery rates and 
production, as well as to reschedule its 
mining plan in response to marketplace 
dynamics. The number of pits will increase 
to at least six under the current mine plan; 
thus providing greater scheduling and 
blending opportunities going forward.
Cash costs for the year at US$693 per 
ounce were below revised guidance and 
were competitive in an environment of 
significant cost pressures affecting the 
whole sector. Costs rose from US$533 per 
ounce in the first quarter to US$773 per 
ounce in the fourth. Higher fuel costs were 
a key factor, with increases in mining and 
plant activity levels exacerbated by rising 
fuel prices. The fuel price increase reflected 
an underlying increase in global oil prices 
and the decision taken mid-year by the 
Government of Burkina Faso that value 
added tax on fuel would no longer be 
recoverable. As well as Inata’s direct fuel 
consumption, higher fuel prices also 
drove up freight costs of goods delivered 
to site. Higher mining rates resulted in a 
proportional increase in maintenance costs, 
and the higher labour rates introduced as a 
result of the industrial action taken in May 
of 2011 also impacted upon overall costs. 
Royalties rose as a direct result of higher 
spot prices as well as a higher proportion of 
gold sold at spot prices following the hedge 
restructure in July. On a cost per ounce 
basis, unit costs were also driven higher by 
lower grades and recoveries.
Cash costs for the year at 
US$693 per ounce were 
below revised guidance 
and were competitive  
in an environment of 
significant cost pressures 
affecting the whole sector. Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
22
Chief Executive’s review continued
Where possible, costs were actively 
managed with a number of operational 
improvements. Specifically, automated 
cyanide dosing introduced during the 
second half of 2011 reduced cyanide 
consumption in the order of 20%, and a 
similar saving is expected through the 
introduction of automated lime dosing in 
the second half of 2012. Significant cost 
reductions are also anticipated through the 
introduction of a fuel-based cooling system 
for the powerhouse, which will improve the 
efficiency of the generators, and this is 
expected to be on line by mid-2012.
Of particular importance to Avocet, is the 
excellent safety performance that we have 
achieved subsequent to the acquisition of 
the Inata Gold Mine. In late November, the 
Inata Gold Mine achieved the significant 
milestone of six million man hours worked 
injury free. This achievement was the 
result of ongoing vigilance and proactive 
measures taken to maintain high level of 
staff training and awareness. However, 
a lost time incident occurred in late 
December 2011, when an operator 
sustained a sprained ankle while 
dismounting from an excavator following 
a fire in the excavator. While it is regrettable 
that an incident occurred, the injury 
occurred after the operator had followed 
standard safety processes by activating the 
equipment’s fire suppression system, thus 
minimising the fire hazard to himself and 
disruption to mining operations. Avocet Mining PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
23
o UTLoo K Fo R 2012
During 2011 the focus in Burkina Faso was 
on increasing Inata’s plant capacity to 340 
tonnes per hour and adding mining 
capacity to support this higher throughput. 
During 2012 the mine’s operations team will 
be firmly focused on operating and cost 
efficiencies. Several operational projects 
are now being progressed that will directly 
impact on reagent and fuel consumption 
and consequently reduce operating costs. 
In addition a business process review was 
initiated during 2011 to optimise Inata’s 
business systems, including its supply chain. 
Reduced purchase prices, consolidated 
logistics and optimised inventory levels are 
among the anticipated benefits. 
In Burkina Faso, the Company’s project 
team, including those responsible for 
successfully completing Inata’s construction 
and commissioning, will advance Inata’s 
expansion plans, with an initial emphasis 
on comprehensive metallurgical test work. 
Once complete, the results of this analysis 
will determine the optimal expansion plan 
which will be progressed immediately into 
construction. 
In 2012, the exploration activities in Burkina 
Faso will include geochemical auger and 
aircore drilling of geophysical anomalies 
surrounding the Inata Gold Mine and along 
the Souma Trend. The Company will follow 
up priority prospects with RC and DD 
drilling later in the year to develop new 
Mineral Resources. In the meantime, 
considerable drilling is required to expand 
the identified zones of mineralisation in the 
Inata Mine licence area, particularly in the 
south of the area where the intersection 
between the Inata and Minfo Trends 
requires further development. Souma 
remains a quality candidate for further 
growth in Mineral Resources that will be 
drilled once the many targets near Inata 
have been tested. In Guinea, Avocet will 
conduct geochemical aircore drilling of 
geophysical anomalies at Kodiafaran and 
in the Koulékoun District. Kodiéran and 
Balandougou will be the subject of further 
drilling programmes to develop and 
increase their Mineral Resources. Both 
the Burkina Faso and Guinea exploration 
programmes are expected to provide a 
base of Mineral Resource expansion in 
2013 that will directly support Avocet’s 
future production growth.
With Koulékoun advanced to a sufficient 
scale to warrant a feasibility study into 
developing a mine, and in view of the recent 
mining code changes, the senior executive 
group from Avocet, along with its key 
advisors, held discussions in Conakry 
during January 2012 with the highest levels 
of the Guinea government. The discussions 
were focused on a mutual exchange of 
information, at which Avocet provided an 
update on its projects in Guinea and both 
parties discussed the new mining code. 
At the Government’s invitation, Avocet has 
subsequently tabled a number of areas of 
the new mining code that require clarity 
and definition, as well as areas that require 
consideration for change. While uncertainty 
continues to exist on how the mining 
code may develop and how it will be 
implemented, these discussions confirmed 
the Government’s desire to attract inward 
investment, while balancing the needs of 
the Guinean people. Avocet anticipates 
receiving clarity in the new mining code, 
as well as confirmation of the process for 
achieving a fiscal stability agreement in the 
coming months. If a satisfactory stability 
agreement can be achieved by the middle 
of 2012, we intend to progress Koulékoun 
into a definitive feasibility study, a 
comprehensive exercise that is expected 
to take a full twelve months to complete. 
Construction is therefore likely to take a 
further twelve months, which indicates 
targeted first gold in late 2014. We intend 
to provide regular updates to shareholders 
throughout the process. 
This past year will go down in Avocet’s 
history as a transformational one, but also a 
very successful one. Our success reflects 
the dedication and commitment of the 
Avocet team, and I would like to thank all 
Avocet employees for their contribution to 
our achievements this year. I look forward 
to 2012 being an equally successful year, 
and another stepping stone towards our 
long term objective of becoming a leading 
West African gold mining and exploration 
company.
BRETT RIch ARDS
c hief Executive o fficer
