 Chairman’s Statement
06
The last year has seen the later stages of the restructuring
programme that the Company embarked on four years ago.
In June 2005 we raised £17.6m net of costs by way of an
equity placing with existing and new shareholders in order to
provide the financial and strategic stability to allow us to
execute a long-term strategy that will result in sustainable
returns over the forthcoming years.  We have made significant
progress in achieving the key elements of the strategic plan
set out in the Circular to shareholders on 6 June 2005.
Specifically we have:
• Realigned the manufacturing footprint and moved to
lower cost locations. By the end of FY2006 we have
closed seven facilities and downsized two more and plan
to close three further facilities in FY2007 and downsize
one more. Over 95% of our direct labour force is now
located in the low cost areas of Asia, Mexico and Eastern
Europe.
• Restructured the organisation into three global product
groups to align with the market and better serve our
customers.
• Strengthened the management team through the addition
of key staff in engineering, sales, sourcing and operations.
The new team members join us from leading companies
both inside and outside the industry.  
• Enhanced our penetration of high growth and emerging
markets such as medical, high speed assemblies and
WiMax (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access).
• Focused on cost reduction and cash generation to
improve profitability and balance sheet.  The Group
generated cash flows from operations of £11.7m,
compared with £1.6m in the previous year.
• Seen the operating profit before the £8.6m major
restructuring programme charge triple to £5.3m from
£1.8m.  We managed to increase our operating margin
despite a significant increase in commodity prices and
pricing pressure from our customers.  We saw benefits of
the cost saving and restructuring programmes during the
second half of the year when we generated £3.9m
operating profit against £1.4m in the first half of FY2006.
• Reduced net borrowings from £30.5m to £13.3m. 
Results
The revenues for the financial year ended 2 April 2006 were
up 2.4% at £250.4m and operating profit (before the cost of
the major restructuring programme) was £5.3m  (2005:
£1.8m).  Net borrowings closed at £13.3m, down from
£30.5m a year ago.
The Group took a gross £8.9m charge in respect of the
accelerated restructuring programme but a £0.3m credit in
respect of higher fire insurance proceeds reduced the charge
to £8.6m.  The net loss for the year after this charge was
£3.3m (2005: loss £5.0m).
The Board is not proposing a dividend in respect of the 
year. 
Board and management changes
As the Group is now transitioning from a restructuring phase
to one of growth, changes have been made to the Board and
management of the Company.  Heejae Chae was appointed
as the Chief Executive Officer of the Group.  Heejae has
already served as the Chief Operations Officer and has
successfully guided the Group through the restructuring in the
past year, particularly in North America.  Heejae was
previously the worldwide General Manager of the Radio
Frequency Group of Amphenol Corporation.  Martin May
resigned as Chairman after providing leadership during the
restructuring phase.  Additionally, Derek Walter, 58, has
tendered his resignation as Finance Director but will remain
with the Group until a new Finance Director has been
appointed and an orderly handover period has been
completed.  This new management team, together with a
significant number of other new team members, will meet the
requirements of the next stage of the Group’s development.
Dimitri Goulandris has also been appointed a non-executive
Director of the Board.  Dimitri is a partner of Cycladic Capital
LLP , which is a major shareholder of Volex.
“The stability provided by the injection of funds by existing
and new shareholders will allow the Group to maximise the
available market potential and build a Company capable of
sustainable returns over the forthcoming years.”
Richard Arkle Chairman
“We have now passed the inflexion point of
restructuring into a path of growth and profitability
but we nevertheless recognise the significant
challenges ahead of us.” Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 07
Future
The Group is well positioned to take advantage of the
dynamics of the global cable assembly and power cord
marketplaces.  Based on independent research, Volex is the
third largest player in the cable assembly market (which
includes power cords) and, using internal research material,
the largest player in the power cord assembly market.
Despite our leading market positions, our market share is
single digit providing us the opportunity for significant growth.
We are uniquely positioned to grow by leveraging our global
footprint, broad technology capabilities and strategic and
preferred relationships with customers that are leaders in the
markets they serve.
We have now passed the inflexion point of restructuring into a
path of growth and profitability but we nevertheless recognise
the significant challenges ahead of us.  The industry dynamics
of customers reducing their vendor base, rising commodity
prices and pricing pressure are issues we face daily.
Predicting the future in today’s uncertain environment is
difficult but we are confident that following the major changes
that have been achieved over the last twelve months, we are
well placed to make further progress towards bottom line
profitability and enhancing shareholder value.
In closing, I would like to thank everyone in the organisation.
Our people span the world and many cultures and the
business has over one hundred years of history.  We would
not have achieved our leadership position if not for the
dedication, hard work and passion of our people.  As we
move forward to an exciting future, we recognise that respect,
teamwork and collaboration with all our stakeholders must be
the cornerstones that will drive the Group forward on a global
footing and produce the anticipated returns for our
shareholders.  We will be asking the shareholders to support
a new long term incentive plan for the senior team and details
of the plan will be presented for approval at the Annual
General Meeting.
Richard Arkle
Chairman
13 June 2006
