 Chief Executive’s Review
08
During FY2006, Volex Group went through a significant
transformation financially, organisationally and culturally.  We
emerged from the year poised to build on our leadership
position in the PowerCord, Infocom and Wiring Harness
markets we serve.
We have:
• Restructured the organisation into three global product
groups - PowerCord, Infocom and Wiring Harness - to
align with the market and better serve the customers.
We believe that the global nature of our customers and
supply chain require that we operate as a global
organisation.  Each product group is responsible for all
aspects of the business on a global basis.  We can
respond and service consistently the customers’ needs
anywhere in the world.  We believe that the global
structure allows us to leverage the knowledge,
technology and scale to achieve greater efficiency and
lower cost to better serve all our customers across the
world.  
• Accelerated the global restructuring programme.  By
the end of FY2006 we have closed seven
manufacturing facilities and downsized two more and
we plan to close three further facilities and downsize
one more in FY2007.  As a result, we significantly
reduced our costs enabling us to enter FY2007 with a
much lower cost base and over 95% of our direct
labour is now located in the low cost areas of Asia,
Mexico and Eastern Europe.
• Streamlined central functions and corporate structure.
In order to empower each global product group, the
global purchasing and IT functions were merged into
each product group.  Additionally, we have taken action
to benefit from lower costs at headquarters in the
coming year.  We believe that the responsibility for
business decisions should rest with the product
groups, not the corporate office.  The product groups
are closer to the customers and can react much more
quickly to the changing marketplace.  
• Transformed the organisation’s cultural mindset to
Global from Regional.  With the reorganisation into
global product groups, our perspective and mindset
have become global.  We are breaking down the
barriers to better share knowledge and competencies
across the organisation.  This change will allow us to
better manage our knowledge and technologies to
ensure that we provide the best service consistently to
all of our customers throughout the world.
• Developed a performance driven organisation.  We
enter FY2007 with a focus on results and
accountability.  Everyone in the organisation
understands our strategy and goal.  We recognise that
we must benchmark ourselves against the competition
and drive the organisation to outperform, measuring
ourselves against quantifiable metrics and performance
goals.  
• Reinforced the organisation with new team members.
We believe that people are our most important asset
and we continuously look to invest in developing new
talent at all levels.  During the past year, we added key
staff in engineering, sales, sourcing and operations.
These individuals bring with them new perspectives
that will fuel our growth. 
• Placed emphasis on a common value system.  We
recognise that our organisation comprises people from
many countries and cultures.  Each one of us brings
unique skills and perspectives.  It is important that we
operate under common values yet recognise our
diversity.  We believe that the following values are
universal at Volex: leadership, respect and integrity.  We
must promote them through communication and
teamwork that will lead to knowledge sharing across
our diverse people. 
“The Group has benefited from the general
improvement in demand across most of the
markets that we service but has also made
significant strides in developing new business
opportunities in targeted markets.”
Heejae Chae Group Chief Executive
“Volex Group went through a significant
transformation financially, organisationally and
culturally. We emerged from the year poised to
build on our leadership position....” Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 09
Markets
The cable assembly market, which encompasses
PowerCord, Infocom and Wiring Harness, is estimated at
approximately US$20 billion in annual sales.  Volex’s range
of technologies and products allow us to participate in a
broad variety of industries including consumer products,
data and telecommunications, industrial, medical,
automotive and military.
The consumer product market continues to remain strong
as a result of healthy consumer spending across the world.
New applications and development further drive the growth
through the introduction of “must have” products.  Volex
has experienced solid gains in the consumer products
sector especially for flat-screen televisions, gaming and
music consoles.  We anticipate future growth through
continued new product introductions; however, as with
other competitive markets, we expect significant pricing
pressure going forward.  Our participation in the sector is
primarily through our PowerCord product line, which carries
significant copper content.  This commodity has recently
experienced large price increases which are continuing
through the early half of FY2007, further stressing the
competitive nature of this business.
The Group’s second largest segment comprises data and
telecommunications products.  We provide an array of
products in telecom infrastructure, computers and Internet
equipment (servers, storage systems and datacom
equipment) and have preferred supplier status with
customers that are leaders in the markets they serve.  We
expect the telecom market to continue to grow, in particular
the wireless sector whose indicators remain strong; wireless
subscriber growth continues with new and improved
services and lower tariffs; 3G rollouts continue to gain
traction with launches in many geographies; and the
convergence of data and voice is a driver for future growth.
As the system requirements increase and product cycles
shorten, we continue to see growth in the sector; however,
with competition from existing players and new entrants
from low cost regions, pricing pressure remains significant.
The medical equipment segment is expected to continue to
grow, driven by the demographics of an ever growing and
ageing population.  The cable assembly supply base for
medical equipment is highly fragmented but evolving:
equipment providers are aggressively managing their supply
chains as they look to generate efficiency and reduce cost.
Volex is a major supplier in the sector and now has
established a leadership position with leading medical
equipment providers through leveraging our technology,
product offerings, superior service and global footprint. 
In the automotive and military markets we supply niche
wiring harness systems for off-highway equipment,
specialist vehicles and aerospace harness systems.  Our
sectors have remained steady, unlike the broader
automotive markets, and experienced positive growth
trends as a result of the increasing complexity of harnesses
for specialty vehicles as well as the general growth in
defence spending.
Product performance
PowerCords:
Revenue increased 6.7% in sterling terms.  The growth in
net sales was a result of volume increases and higher
average selling prices due to a shift in the mix towards
higher end products as well as price increases driven by
escalating copper prices.  New sales in consumer game
consoles and increased sales to our Japanese OEM
customers were the leading contributors to organic growth.
Although the competitive pricing environment dampened
the net sales increase, we continue to compete successfully
on the basis of performance, quality, reliability, brand
reputation, service and support.
Competitive pricing pressures and escalating copper costs
contributed to an increase in cost of sales.  Copper prices
rose from US$3,300/tonne to US$5,400/tonne, compared
with a reasonably stable average of approximately
US$3,000/tonne in FY2005.  The negative impact on the
cost of sales was partially offset by aggressive supply chain
management and improvements in labour and operating
costs. 10
During FY2006, we reorganised the PowerCord division into
a single global product group, allowing us to rationalise our
marketing, manufacturing and technology strategy.  We
have closed three facilities and downsized one and intend
to close a further site in FY2007, moving the business to
our expanded China operations.  This expanded low-cost
capacity will provide labour savings, fixed cost consolidation
and supply chain leverage.  Additionally, we have invested
in the engineering resources across all regions to enhance
our value to customers on a global basis.
Infocom:
The revenue from the Infocom business declined 4.8% as a
result of our rationalising low margin business, increased
pricing pressure and a one-time award of a contract for
telecom infrastructure deployment in India completed in
FY2005.  However, revenue and profitability improvements
were realised in key market sectors including medical and
telecommunications throughout the year.  
The Infocom division went through significant changes in
FY2006 designed to align the manufacturing footprint with
our customers’ requirements and cost targets.  As a result,
we consolidated our manufacturing locations into three
principal manufacturing centres: China, Eastern Europe and
Mexico, entering FY2007 with almost 100% of our direct
labour based in low cost regions.  Additionally, we
undertook significant action to reduce overhead cost by
reorganising the general and administrative structure.  The
sales organisation was realigned to provide global coverage
of our key accounts and focus on new account
development, enabling us to identify opportunities to
leverage our technologies across application specific
opportunities.  Capitalising on our preferred supplier
position at market leading customers, we look to leverage
our technologies and products to gain new customers in
similar applications.  Going forward, technologies and
competencies will be shared and leveraged across the
entire Group to best supply our customers with a broad
offering of technology and capabilities.  
The Infocom market continues to be highly competitive
through the entrance of low cost suppliers, the need for
aggressive year on year cost reductions and the desire of
customers to consolidate their supply bases.  Additionally,
we face rising commodity prices with limited visibility of
customer demand.  With the need to improve our market
position and profitability, the actions we took in FY2006 and
those we will continue to take in FY2007 will create
additional competitive advantage and allow us to achieve
our goals.  We have begun to see the benefits of these
actions during the second half of the year through improved
profits and cash flow for the Infocom product group.
Wiring Harness:
The revenue from the Wiring Harness business increased by
11.8%, despite price reductions and was a result of the
positioning in the growing markets of construction
equipment and military/aerospace.  The automotive market
remains highly competitive with the entrance of new low
cost suppliers, as well as aggressive year on year cost
reductions.  Whilst revenue increased, profitability came
under severe pressure being impacted by an unexpected
administration proceeding at one of our larger customers
and rising commodity prices, as well as significant
operational challenges.
The Wiring Harness business in FY2006 continued its drive
to improve its operational performance and cost base.  We
merged the two separate Wiring Harness businesses into
one organisation and announced the closure of one of our
manufacturing sites in the UK.  Throughout the year we
transferred projects to low cost manufacturing locations.
The sales and engineering organisations were reorganised
and strengthened to continue the business development
activities already showing success in FY2006.  The drive in
FY2007 is to continue the downsizing in high labour cost
areas, whilst improving our operational performance, focus
on business development and build on our very strong
reputation of quality and customer service.
Chief Executive’s Review (continued) The future
As we look to the future, there is much uncertainty
regarding rising commodity prices, customer pricing
pressures, low cost competition and limited demand
visibility.  Challenging as these factors may be, this
environment has been the reality of the industry for the past
five years.  The competitive landscape is littered with those
unable to adapt to this new environment.  Nevertheless,
market leaders have emerged stronger and better and we
recognise our challenge is to outperform them.  Volex has
struggled for the last five years and has now emerged to
compete aggressively in this challenging marketplace.  We
believe that our transformation – financially, organisationally
and culturally – will bring us to the forefront of the
competitive landscape.  We have aligned our manufacturing
footprint and cost basis to support the most demanding
customers; we have the technology to satisfy cutting edge
customers: and we have the supply chain and logistic
competencies to support our global customers.  But most
importantly, we have the people who are able to adapt to
these constant changes and continue to provide the best
service to our customers.
Heejae Chae
Group Chief Executive
13 June 2006
Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11 12
Financial Highlights 2006
Global sales up 2.4% to £250.4m
Operating profit 
(1)
£5.3m
Major restructuring programme charge £(8.6)m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 
(1)
£1.9m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax £(6.7)m
(1) The operating loss after the £8.6m major restructuring programme charge was £3.3m.
Revenue by market sector Revenue by source
products
and
