 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 09
Chief Executive’s
Review
After the downturn experienced through late 2001, Volex
Group has taken significant actions to reduce debt and return
to profitability. Having achieved a revenue peak of £418m in
FY 2001, the Group experienced a dramatic decline to
£230m in FY 2003 and has improved from that low point to
close the last financial year (FY 2005) at a revenue level of
£245m. Despite the limited access to funds, a number of key
actions have been undertaken over this period: 
• Gross borrowings have been reduced from £72m to £45m.
• Gross margins have recovered from a low of 11.6% to FY 
2005 levels of 14.5% through reductions in material costs 
and labour cost reductions by moving to lower cost areas. 
• Facilities have been closed and manufacturing transferred 
to low cost locations and under-utilised assets have been 
disposed of.
• A strong global purchasing function has been established.
• The global account team was enhanced and has delivered 
momentum to the emerging medical and industrial 
business which has grown to 10% of Group revenue. 
• New management and systems have been introduced to 
the harness businesses (Wiring Systems and Ionix).
The financial year 2005 had been expected to improve further
on these achievements and the Group delivered revenues in
2005 at a level of £245m which, when the effects of currency
translation are removed, was a growth year on year of 8%.
The Group has benefited from the general improvement in 
demand across most of the markets that we service but has
also made significant strides in developing new business
opportunities in targeted markets. The broadening of the
customer base in existing and new markets remains a key
focus for the Group and reduces the impact of cyclical
demand patterns in any one sector. 
However, while the market demand profile supported the
revenue ambitions of the Group, the translation of those
revenues to operating profit was disappointing and was
impacted by unanticipated events, some of which were 
one-off in nature.
• The escalation of commodity prices, particularly copper 
and petroleum, impacted the Group by circa £6m in profit.
While the sales teams have been successful in passing 
some of these effects through to the customer base, 
there was a lag between the supply base increases and 
the successful conclusion of negotiations with those 
same customers.
• The turnaround of the North American division was 
adversely impacted by an unsuccessful change in 
management, resulting in a failure to achieve the product 
transfer and margin improvement targets for the business, 
and by a fire in one of two buildings in Tijuana, Mexico 
that created a loss of potential sales in the period.
On a positive note the Group has already addressed many 
of these areas and the better performing divisions achieved
operating margins of 6%+ in the year. Operationally, we
recovered the Tijuana fire impact successfully and the speed
and effectiveness of that recovery bears testament to the
ability of the Group to manage significant events without
impacting the supply line to the customer base. We have
changed the leadership of North America (October 2004) 
and positioned one of the non-executive Directors back into
the regional leadership position. We have built a new team
and strengthened sales, engineering and operations. We 
have developed a strong global purchasing function that 
has mitigated the full effect of rising commodity prices by
materials savings secured elsewhere in the supply chain.
Despite the limited access to funds the Group continued 
to focus on cost reduction, re-profiling the manufacturing
footprint and the level of debt within which the Company 
had to operate. During the year, three further facilities were
announced for closure: Conover (US), Malaysia and
Philippines. The Group strengthened its focus and resource
allocation in global account management to penetrate 
new markets, new accounts and the existing accounts for
incremental revenues, some of which were already realised 
in the reported year. 
“The Group has benefited from the general
improvement in demand across most of 
the markets that we service but has also made
significant strides in developing new business
opportunities in targeted markets.”
John Corcoran Group Chief Executive
58812 Volex R & A 1-16.qxd  19/7/05  10:03 am  Page 9 58812 Volex R & A 1-16.qxd  19/7/05  10:03 am  Page 10 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11
Chief Executive’s 
Review 
The demand environment across all our sectors remains
relatively stable. However, there are some indications of
weakness in some sectors through the second half of this
calendar year 2005. Energy prices continue to weigh heavily 
on most sectors; however, the Group has assumed some
level of caution in the forward forecasts of revenue that is
anticipated for the full financial year. The organisation is firmly
committed to achieving growth, which is expected to come
largely from increased market share driven by the consolidation
of the supply base and also from our ability to penetrate further
existing markets and to develop emerging markets. In addition,
the Group was very focused in the second half of the financial
year 2005 on improving the quality of revenue and eliminating
non-profitable or low margin business from its revenue stream.
This is expected to continue and while it may depress
revenues in some areas, it will remove the dilutive effect of
this low margin business from the performance of the Group
overall.
Regional operations
As outlined, sales improved over the prior year by 3%;
however, the currency effect of £13m masks the growth
achieved in specific areas of our global operation. In the
Americas the revenue by destination increased by 3.5% 
but was somewhat impacted by the fire in the Tijuana facility.
This event had a more pronounced effect on the cost base
reduction programme which, when combined with the
change of leadership in the region, caused a significant
under-performance to budget expectations. The Board now
believes that the progress made in the last number of months
has brought this programme back on track albeit six months
behind schedule. The market environment in North America
continues to be relatively stable with some suggestion of
weakness in the computer electronics sector for the
forthcoming calendar year. 
Sales in and into Asia improved by approximately 5.5% over
the previous year in local currency terms. As in prior years,
the strongest performing area was the power cord element of
our business; however, the dynamic of copper price
increases at the commodity level impacted the translation of
this performance into growth in operating profits. At the end
of the financial year the Group announced two site closures in
Asia as we continue to strive for reduction in our global
footprint and a rationalisation of our facilities into larger
manufacturing centres. 
Sales in Volex Europe (Data/telco) increased by 12% over 
the prior year helped by an improved telecommunications
market in the region and also the assembly of OEM systems
for deployment in Asia meant that the sub-assembly portfolio
was supported out of Europe. Additionally, the team in 
Europe secured improved revenue streams into the medical
sector. In the UK the demand environment for our specialist
harness businesses remained relatively stable year on year. 
A recovering environment for the aerospace and defence
harness industry compensated somewhat for some
weakness at the customer level in the automotive harness
area. The smaller units experienced operational and execution
issues that adversely affected the operating profit level. These
are being corrected with the deployment of new management
and existing Group resources diverted to securing sustainable
process improvement.
The Group strategy continues to be focused on exploiting 
its key differentiators to position the Group as the leading
global provider of cable assembly solutions in the market.
We offer breadth across the entire product portfolio of power
and signal products. Our independence of specific
technology allows the Group to leverage the most cost
effective yet technically competent solution available in 
the market place to meet our customers’ requirements.
Increasingly, the capabilities of the Group at the supply chain
level and product development level enable us to provide 
a range of services around and beyond the cable assembly
from design to distribution. With the new investment and the
re-profiling of the financial base, the Group is well positioned
to continue to drive for improvements in market share and
revenues above market growth.
John Corcoran
Group Chief Executive
30 June 2005
58812 Volex R & A 1-16.qxd  19/7/05  10:03 am  Page 11 Financial highlights 2005
Global sales up 2.6% to £244.6m
Operating profit 
(1)
£1.5m
Exceptional operating expenses £8.5m
Goodwill amortisation £0.3m
Profit on sales of properties £1.9m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax 
(1,2)
£2.6m
Loss on ordinary activities before tax £9.5m
(1) Before goodwill amortisation of £0.3m and exceptional operating items of £8.5m
(2) Before profit on sale of properties £1.9m
Turnover by market sector Turnover by product
58812 Volex R & A 1-16.qxd  19/7/05  10:03 am  Page 12
