 Chairman’s
Statement
“The stability provided by the injection of funds
by existing and new shareholders will allow the
Group to maximise the available market potential
and build a Company capable of sustainable
returns over the forthcoming years.”
Dom Molloy Chairman
The strategy of the Group for the past three years has been 
to realign the cost base with the actual and projected revenue
levels while ensuring that it invested in the opportunities available
in an improving market environment. Despite a limited access
to funds a number of significant actions have been taken to
reduce debt and return to profitability. Through the financial
year ended 3 April 2005, the Group experienced a number of
exceptional circumstances that affected the financial performance
being reported. These include a rise in commodity prices, in
particular copper and a fire in the Group’s Tijuana, Mexico
factory in September 2004. These issues have been addressed
and Volex has resumed its drive to benefit from improvement
in demand across the breadth of the markets we service. 
The dynamics of the cable assembly market continue to 
be challenging. It is though, increasingly providing opportunity 
for the Group as global customers continue to consolidate 
their supply base in favour of global suppliers such as Volex.
The Group continues to use its global presence and the
breadth of its product portfolio in combination with active
account management to secure a strong position in this
consolidation process. The breadth of our product portfolio
and the ability to leverage technology and capability external to 
the Group, combined with the range of services provided
enable the Group to extend a value offering to match any 
of the competition in our designated markets. Recently
published data from Fleck Research Inc. indicates that the
Group continues to be the third largest supplier of cable
assemblies in the world and that our market share increased in
2004 (calendar year) over the previous year.
To fully capitalise on the opportunities provided by differentiation,
the Group needs to accelerate the investment in the re-structuring
of the operational base and in the future growth of the business.
The level of trading has meant that the level of debt within the
Group has restricted the financial flexibility required.
The recent equity raising, netting £15.8m to the Group,
provides us with the financial security required. New banking
facilities have been agreed which provide stability over three
years during which period Volex will deliver on four key
elements of its business plan:
• Continue to reduce the manufacturing footprint and
move to lower cost locations.
• Develop markets and products that enrich the margin 
potential for the Group.
• Strengthen the competencies in the Group by enhancing 
key skills (e.g. development and sourcing) and re-aligning 
management structure and reporting in selected areas.
• Build alliances to expand the product set and technology 
offering.
The focus on cost, service and value-add remains. The stability
provided by the injection of funds by existing and new
shareholders will allow the Group to maximise the available
market potential and build a Company capable of sustainable
returns over the forthcoming years.
06
58812 Volex R & A 1-16.qxd  19/7/05  10:00 am  Page 6 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 07
Results
The revenues for the financial year ended 3 April 2005 were up
3% at £245m (8% excluding foreign currency impact) and the
operating profit (pre goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items) was £1.5m*. Net borrowings closed at
£30.5m reflecting the continuing focus on cash management.
Board changes
During the year there have been a number of changes to the
Board of the Company. Derek Walter joined as Group Finance
Director replacing David Hudson, and Richard Arkle joined as a
non-executive Director.
I am also pleased to report the appointment of two new
Directors, Craig Mullett and Heejae Chae to the Board on 30
June 2005. Both have extensive experience of our industry,
having worked with Amphenol Corporation and will provide
both strategic and operational input to the challenges ahead. 
* See note 1 to the Financial Highlights on page 1.
Having recently celebrated my 60th year, the last twenty of
them spent with Volex, and with the Group now placed on 
a solid financial footing I will step down as Chairman of the
Group and retire from the Board following the EGM and the
admission of shares on 30 June 2005. David Beever is taking
over as Chairman on an interim basis pending the selection 
of a permanent successor and I wish him and the rest of 
the Board every success for the future. I can also confirm 
that a search has already commenced for a permanent 
non-executive Chairman.
Future
The re-structuring of the finances of the Group has provided
significant optimism for the future of this Group. It now is in 
a position to deliver on the strategic agenda of growth and
profitability. With more normalised banking facilities extending
over the next three years and with the funds to address the
objectives of cost elimination and margin improvement, I
believe that shareholder value will be enhanced and the Group
returned to levels of profitability appropriate to its strong
position in this industry.
Dom Molloy
Chairman
30 June 2005
58812 Volex R & A 1-16.qxd  19/7/05  10:00 am  Page 7 58812 Volex R & A 1-16.qxd  19/7/05  10:00 am  Page 8
