 Volga Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4
Chairman’s Statement
Volga Gas is distinctive for operating entirely in 
European Russia, close to domestic markets and 
with pipeline and logistical infrastructure nearby. 
Our four licence blocks encompass proven oil, gas 
and condensate in shallow and medium depth 
horizons and major gas and condensate exploration 
targets in deep sub-salt horizons. At the start of 2008 
it was our intention to advance our exploration and 
development projects with a view to achieving near 
term production and to move towards the drilling of 
our deep high impact exploration targets.
Throughout 2008 we made good progress 
towards meeting these key objectives. But 
we have also had to meet some serious 
challenges in the course of the year. Firstly, 
we faced a potential law suit seeking to 
unwind our purchase of the V-M field. 
However, as announced on 12th November 
2008, the court case was withdrawn and 
we reached a resolution agreement with 
Trans Nafta which is more extensively 
described in the Operating Review. 
Secondly, and more seriously in the short 
term, the global economic downturn and 
the associated sharp falls in commodity 
prices have made for a difficult 
environment for all oil and gas companies 
and also for the Russian economy.
The sharp decline in the Ruble exchange 
rate against the US dollar has set back the 
progress of achieving netback parity in 
regulated domestic gas prices. To the best 
of our knowledge the policy of 25% per 
annum increases in Ruble denominated 
gas prices remains in place. In the short 
term, the economic downturn in Russia 
will have impacted both the demand and 
prices paid in the unregulated gas 
market. Similarly, domestic economic 
conditions have also impacted the 
demand and pricing of crude oil in Russia.
Volga Gas, however, is well placed to 
withstand these challenges. Our fields are 
advantageously located and our costs  
are sufficiently low for us to achieve 
acceptable returns even at very low oil and 
gas prices. We will be able to complete the 
development of our production projects to 
benefit immediately from an eventual 
recovery in oil and gas prices. Most 
importantly, we have the necessary capital 
to fulfil our current licence commitments.
Key achievements for the Company in 
2008 include 100% success with our 
development drilling of the supra-salt 
wells on the Uzenskaya oil field in the 
Karpenskiy Licence Area (‘KLA’) and  
two successful wells on the V-M gas-
condensate field. We have commenced 
full-time production from Uzenskaya and 
hope to follow suit at V-M during 2009. 
These fields should enable the Company 
to achieve the important milestone of 
financial self-sustainability before the  
end of 2009.
Volga Gas was originally created to 
explore the sub-salt structures on the 
KLA. Not only are we excited by the 
potential of the two structures, Yuzhny-
Ershovskoye (‘Y-E’) and Yuzhny-
Mokrousovskoye (‘Y-M’), but our initial 
evaluation of the sub-salt potential in the 
nearby Pre-Caspian Licence Area is 
showing equally compelling prospectivity. 5
Volga Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Of course, we need to turn our potential 
into results. During 2008 we have laid the 
foundations for the drilling of our first 
sub-salt well. Interpretation of the 3-D 
seismic data over the two main prospects 
in the Karpenskiy Licence Area was 
completed and we have identified a 
location (Grafovskaya) on which we plan 
to drill an exploration well on the Y-E 
prospect. Furthermore, we have secured a 
suitable rig for this well and have received 
the necessary official consents for the 
well (‘Passport’). On the Pre-Caspian 
Licence, we have acquired and interpreted 
2-D seismic and are seeing some highly 
interesting results.
We started 2009 with a cash balance of 
US$23.1 million and so are well positioned 
to fund our development work 
programme. However, if we were to 
accelerate the drilling of our sub-salt 
exploration well, the Company would 
require additional funding.
Finally, we pay tribute to the hard work 
and dedication of the small team of 
employees who have worked tirelessly 
throughout the year to deliver the 
impressive results which we are now able 
to report. I would like to thank them for 
their hard work. The end of 2008 saw the 
departure of our Chief Financial Officer, 
Alistair Stobie. We thank him for his hard 
work and welcome his successor, Tony 
Alves to the Company. Tony has been 
closely involved with Volga Gas from an 
early stage and has the experience to 
carry on Alistair’s good work.
Alexey V. Kalinin
Chairman
The Russian  
gas market
Supply and demand
Gazprom’s major producing fields  
have either reached peak production  
or are already suffering from declining 
production. At the same time, demand 
for Russian gas, both domestically  
and from Western Europe, already 
exceeds supply. Aggregate domestic  
and international demand for Russian 
gas in 2007 was approximately 707 bcm, 
which exceeded Gazprom’s production 
of approximately 548 bcm and  
exceeded total Russian production of 
approximately 640 bcm, as a result of 
which Gazprom had to purchase and 
transit gas from Central Asia in order  
to meet its supply commitments.
This gas supply deficit is unlikely  
to abate, and could widen, in the 
medium term. The next major fields 
being developed by Gazprom, such  
as the Barents Sea Shtockman field,  
are technologically challenging. 
Gazprom may not be able to bring  
them into production, as previously 
scheduled in 2011 and current 
expectations are for 2014 at the earliest. 
Meanwhile, aggregate domestic and 
international demand for Russian gas, 
notwithstanding current economic 
uncertainties, is expected to remain 
robust and growing in the long term.
Prices
The gas supply deficit has led to a 
significant premium in unregulated 
domestic prices for Russian gas, with 
independent producers achieving prices 
20% above regulated tariffs. In 2008 
regulated prices increased by 25% and 
are set to rise by 16% in 2009. We expect 
further increases in the regulated price 
for natural gas as part of the Russian 
government’s efforts to liberalise the 
price of natural gas on the Russian 
domestic market. The Federal Tariff 
Service will continue to approve the 
effective increase on an annual basis 
although it reserves the right, based on 
market conditions and other factors, to 
modify the percentages published as 
well as potentially prolong the timetable 
toward market price liberalisation, 
which when formulated in 2006 was 
envisaged in 2011.
