 Following a very challenging and 
turbulent period, Volex entered the 
financial year under the strong 
leadership of a new Group Chief 
Executive, Ray Walsh, and Group 
Finance Director, Andrew Cherry, and 
achieved a much improved 
performance, increasing operating 
profits, improving margins and 
significantly reducing net debt. 
 
A strong performance
The new team has made substantial progress in its 
mission to restore financial stability to the Group.  
The team has concentrated on bringing the global 
operations together under a new unified organisational 
structure focused on delivering on a single, global 
strategy for Volex. 
This strategy is already starting to achieve results. 
Operating profits* have improved quarter on quarter 
throughout the year, contributing £13.4m in 2010, 19% 
ahead of 2009 (2009: £11.2m). Net debt has been 
almost halved to £7.6m – the lowest level in ten years 
(2009: £14.8m). Equally importantly, quarter on quarter 
revenue growth from Q2 has been achieved during 
exceptionally challenging economic conditions.
Building a world class team
The new Chief Executive, Ray Walsh, was appointed to 
the Board in April 2009, bringing to Volex considerable 
experience of leading technology companies. Working 
with Andrew Cherry, who was appointed towards the 
end of the last financial year, he has made an immediate 
impact on the business and put in place a clear strategy 
for the future. 
* Before non-recurring items and share-based payments.
Building a world class team
Chairman’s statement
We are now targeting growth through: 
> Strong executive leadership team
> A single, global strategy for Volex
> Unified organisational structure
>  World-class quality and  
customer service
> Cost-competitiveness
12 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review The executive management team has also been 
strengthened with the addition of two senior 
executives to lead the critical sales and marketing and 
operations functions. The executive team has a clear 
mandate; to deliver world-class quality and customer 
service, cost-competitiveness, improving margins, and 
to return the business to growth.
It has been a tough year and I would like to thank all 
our employees, in every location, for their hard work 
and positive response to the huge changes being 
implemented across the Group.
Restoring market confidence
The Board and executive management have worked 
hard in the last year to restore confidence in the 
Group, following a period of underachievement. As the 
new team’s strategy, which is already delivering results 
in a difficult economic environment, becomes fully 
embedded throughout the business, we hope to build 
confidence in the Group still further.
Outlook
Although we are operating well within our banking 
covenants, we remain focused on cash generation 
and reducing net debt.
The Board remains cautious on revenue growth rates 
as a slow return to global financial stability and 
emergence from recession is likely to continue in the 
near-term. However, this will not diminish our focus on 
improving our proposition to customers and effecting 
wide-ranging internal improvements to help deliver 
continuing improvements to our P&L and balance 
sheet. We believe that this will in turn translate into 
long-term value for our shareholders.
Mike McTighe
Chairman
Our year in review
Here are some of our highlights from 
FY2010. But we’re aware there is  
much more to do to continue developing 
the business.
Recruited a strong leadership team
We have put in place a strong 
executive team, including three  
new senior executives with global 
responsibility for Sales and Marketing, 
Operations, and HR, in addition to the 
new CEO and Finance Director 
appointed early in 2009.
Restructured around market sectors 
and global functions
We have re-organised our sales teams 
around market sectors, with global 
account teams for our customers.  
Our operations are organised globally 
along functional lines, enabling 
delivery of coherent global strategies. 
Growth in revenue from own- 
design products
We have strengthened our technical 
design teams to increase early 
engineering engagement with our 
customers, driving improvements  
in our gross margins.
Increased focus on Asia
We have increased our sales and 
operational focus on the high-growth 
economies in China and India, 
working closely with our customers’ 
Asian operations. The proportion of 
our revenue from Asia (incl India) 
was 59% (2009: 53%).
Improving performance trend
Revenues have grown consistently, 
quarter on quarter, from Q2; and 
operating profits* have grown quarter 
on quarter, throughout the year, 
contributing £13.4m this year.
* Before non-recurring items and share-based payments.
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 
