 Business review
18 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s market 
and performance review
We have laid the 
foundation for even 
more robust growth.
Ray Walsh 
Group Chief Executive
Our FY2011 annual report was entitled ‘Building for the Future’ – 
and we vigorously pursued that objective during the financial 
year. We have laid the foundation for greater growth by hiring 
top-level talent in operations, engineering, and sales and 
marketing that will maximise the potential of our enhanced 
capabilities, improve our IT platforms and upgrade and expand 
our production facilities.
Deliver on our strategy 
Our primary objective is very simple and straightforward: deliver 
competitive advantage for our customers. For the past three years, 
the driving strategy for fulfilling that objective was to bridge the 
gap from being a price-sensitive, commodity supplier to a 
full-service supplier with high-end engineering expertise, a 
diversified product line, and the ability to help our customers 
succeed in their own marketplace.
This strategy demands that we add value for our customers, not 
simply fulfil a supplier contract. It’s a very different way of thinking 
and working from where we were a few years ago, when we were 
generally a second-source supplier to the firms who owned the 
engineering relationship. We have improved supply assurance so 
our customers know what they can count on in their own 
manufacturing schedules. And we are driving substantial 
improvements in production cycle-times in order to enhance our 
customers’ own speed-to-market.
The cultural transformation under way at Volex has been 
beneficial. We can’t make Volex’s performance transformation 
happen if only a few people are operating at the highest level; 
we need all 8,000 Volex employees focusing on the needs of the 
customer, on delivering higher-quality products, on continuously 
looking for opportunities to improve. These improvements are 
beginning to take hold. The cultural transformation and training 
at our China facilities, for instance, in combination with major 
upgrades in machines, tooling and plant management, will give 
us truly world-class capabilities in low-cost locations.
Finally, investment in technology upgrades is also playing a 
role, supporting new and more productive ways of working. 
The IT investments have Volex on the road to operating more 
strategically, driving more insightful decision-making and quicker, 
more targeted responsiveness to our customers’ needs. We are 
moving towards greater transparency into our business, which is 
being driven by customers seeking strategic partners rather than 
order-taking suppliers. Operationally, we are working towards 
IT-enabled improvements across virtually every function: supply 
chain systems will eventually be fully integrated; processes are 
being re-engineered and automated; quality assurance is 
enhanced through more reliable testing. The technology 
upgrades in our production facilities, in machines, tooling and 
processes, are also starting to contribute to increased product 
quality, production speed, and our ability to meet tighter and 
more sophisticated specifications. Business review
19 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Focus on customer needs 
What we’re doing is more than just listening to the customer, more 
than just gaining an understanding of their needs. It’s about 
establishing a fully developed strategic partnership, working 
side-by-side through design and development activities to 
co-create interconnect solutions as integral components of our 
customers’ products.
A continuing priority for us is to engage our customers’ senior 
executives ( the ‘C-suite’), moving away from our history of being 
considered a commodity supplier which engages only through 
procurement teams. We challenge C-level officers on how much 
they spend on internal interconnect-design engineers; on how 
much money is at stake if a late cable assembly delays a product 
launch; and on how often they have problems with the quality of 
products from outsourced vendors. We emphasise our strategic 
commitment to engaging engineer-to-engineer with our 
customers’ own product developers, locating our staff at customer 
sites for extended periods.
Invest in talent 
Much more can be done when you have the right people – and 
we’re bringing in the right people all over the organisation. 
 – Executive management We’ve sought people with 
experience on a global scale, people who know what our 
global clients are looking for, who understand the challenges 
a global client faces and how they must respond to gain 
competitive advantage.
 – Engineering With the design and applications engineers and 
material science specialists we have brought in, we’re able to 
provide new services, develop intellectual property, and 
respond more quickly to customers’ needs.
 – Plant management We have invested in new plant 
management in several facilities, most notably our largest 
facility in Henggang, China.
 – Sales organisation A transformation is afoot here as we are 
bringing in more sales engineers who can talk strategically 
about all aspects of solution development – because part of 
improving a customer’s speed-to-market is how quickly we can 
put an engineer on the ground to convert our customers’ 
concepts into design.
The cultural transformation under way at Volex 
has been beneficial. We can’t make Volex’s 
performance transformation happen if only a few 
people are operating at the highest level – we 
need all 8,000 Volex employees focusing on the 
needs of the customer, on delivering higher-quality 
products, on continuously looking for opportunities 
to improve.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Business review
20 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s market 
and performance review 
continued
Our markets 
We operate in four markets – and they are all in constant flux. 
We have to be able to anticipate those changes and provide 
pre-emptive solutions, not simply react. We are funding new 
engineers across all sectors, developing a quick-response 
mechanism for any emerging strategic opportunity and getting 
our top management more involved further down the client list.
 – Consumer Design has become a differentiating quality in the 
consumer sector. It has to look good. It has to look different. 
No matter what sub-sector of consumer products we work in, 
from personal electronics to vacuum cleaners, the customer 
is looking for a product that does more, with higher quality, 
while looking better – yet is still reasonably priced. Our 
growing expertise and proven track record in design as 
well as advanced materials science are creating new 
opportunities for us. 
 – Telecoms/Datacoms Speed and size are primary concerns 
as the convergence of personal communications and content 
drives consolidation in the marketplace. Globalisation has also 
hit the sector and customers are looking for vendors with a 
global footprint to match their own. Meanwhile, the dominant 
technology that is most influencing the marketplace is cloud 
computing as more and more organisations put their 
applications and information in third-party data centres. 
High-speed data interconnects are a critical need, where for 
example there is a consistent flow of new opportunities for us 
in high-speed copper interconnects for the short-distance 
connections in data centres.
 – Healthcare Image-guided therapies are our strong suit – 
and never more so than now after we brought on some very 
high-powered signal-integrity engineers: signal integrity is 
critical to accurate diagnoses from MRI or ultrasound images. 
Also, the healthcare marketplace continues to be promising as 
demographics and emerging markets drive new opportunities. 
Our enhanced engineering expertise and global footprint is 
laying the groundwork for more design-in contracts with 
customers looking for a single-source supplier.
 – Industrial The industrial sector has become information-driven. 
Whether it’s assembly-line robotics or the multitude of sensors 
placed on the modern truck to feed the driver and operations 
hub with crucial data. This has put a premium on signal 
integrity to ensure the accuracy of the data. Given the diversity 
of harsh environments in which many industrial products must 
operate, and the demands of rapid repetitive movements, our 
ruggedising capabilities and advanced materials science 
expertise are also in growing demand. Business review
21 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
One way to analyse the past year is through revenue growth. 
We achieved a record first half delivering 14% revenue growth. 
The first half provided proof of concept for our strategy: this is what 
we can accomplish when circumstances are under our control. 
We faced headwinds in Europe, the US and China, due to 
customers exercising caution in the face of financial uncertainty, 
while the flooding in Thailand upset the computer hard-drive 
supply chain, constraining production in the consumer market. 
So, while revenue slowed in the second half of FY2012, we ended 
the year with healthy growth of 6% over last year, generating 
revenue of $517 .8m.
There’s an additional critical indicator of the long-term promise 
of our strategy, however: an increase in normalised gross margin. 
One of the practical advantages of focusing on customer needs 
is that it positions us to offer more value – and when we offer 
more value, customers are willing to pay more for our services. 
Our normalised gross margins have been on a longer-term 
upward trend, and margins in FY2012 increased one percentage 
point to 19.8%. This is a trend line that we will continue to work on. 
In addition to our own initiatives to raise our game, the innovators 
among our customers have driven us to acquire capabilities that 
have become potent differentiators that deliver competitive 
advantage. These include high-precision plastic injection 
moulding, high-speed interconnects, medical imaging technology, 
and signal integrity innovation.
You can see the true impact of these new capabilities when 
you look at some of the sector numbers for FY2012. Take the 
Healthcare sector, for instance. While we have begun expanding 
into new sub-sectors, imaging system applications still make up 
the bulk of our business. When the quality and acuity of an image 
can be the difference between life or death, data speed and 
signal integrity are paramount. Our growing expertise in this area 
has led to an increase in design-in work. We now have more 
long-term partnerships, more co-creation initiatives, and have 
seen a jump of 4.1 percentage points in gross margin to 27 .5%.
Signal integrity expertise is just one of those enhanced capabilities 
we have to offer, but it comes into play in each one of our four 
sectors. In the consumer sector, for example, where new 
permutations of connectivity are now increasingly important in 
the personal electronics segment, our profit margin increased 
by 0.3 percentage points to 17 .9%. In the Telecoms/Datacoms 
sector, where high-speed data interconnects are shuttling 
terabytes of mission-critical data between tens of millions of users 
and the cloud, profit margins rose 2.4 percentage points to 21.2%. 
Only in the industrial sector did we see a drop-off in gross 
margins, down 1 percentage point to 22.6% due to lower volumes 
in the third quarter, with annual revenue growing by 6%. 
Compounding these enhanced capabilities with applications 
engineering, global manufacturing footprint, high-end production 
in low-cost locations and attentive and insightful customer 
responsiveness, among other factors, and you can see that we 
are well positioned to continue our impressive growth and 
enhance our status as one of the top-level suppliers worldwide.
Outlook for FY2013 
While we are working hard to climb the ladder to industry 
leadership, we can never feel satisfied that ‘we have arrived.’ 
We will continue to recruit more talented and experienced people. 
We have plans to do a comprehensive overhaul of our 
manufacturing processes over the next several years to continue 
to improve the efficiency of our facilities. We will also continue to 
look for new ways of working with our customers to provide 
greater benefit to them. 
We expect, as a result, to continue to grow our role and expand 
our business with our existing customers, and to secure new 
customers who are looking for the competitive advantages we 
are increasingly able to give them.
Ray Walsh 
Group Chief Executive
FY2012 Performance 
Revenue Normalised Gross Margin
2012  
$’000
2011  
$’000 % Var
2012  
%
2011  
% Var
Consumer 330,372 304,336 9 17.9 17.6 +0.3 pts
Telecoms/Datacoms 99,440 109,948 (10) 21.2 18.8 +2.4 pts
Healthcare 51,663 41,536 24 27.5 23.4 +4.1 pts
Industrial 36,294 34,189 6 22.6 23.6 -1.0 pts
Total 517,769 490,009 6 19.8 18.8 +1.0 pts
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
