 06
Chief Executive’s Report
“2009 was an important 
year for Volga Gas.  
We fulfilled the licence 
commitments on our  
key Karpenskiy block,  
we have achieved 
sustainable production 
that gives us positive 
operating cash flow and 
we started drilling our 
sub-salt exploration well 
at Grafovskaya #1.”
During 2009, the majority of the activity and 
investment was concentrated on developing 
our production assets. Drilling on Uzenskoye 
delivered better than anticipated results, 
confirming a high quality light oil resource.
There is still much to accomplish, namely 
completion of the Vostochny Makarovskoye field 
development, evaluation of the results from our 
sub-salt Grafovskaya #1 exploration well and 
enhancement of our understanding of the 
sub-salt hydrocarbon resources in our licence 
areas. We remain committed to delivering 
growing value to our shareholders.
The focus for Volga Gas in 2009 was on 
advancing our key sub-salt exploration project 
and completing the first phase development of  
our oil reserves in the Uzenskoye field. This 
coincided with fulfilment of the key remaining 
licence commitments on the Karpenskiy Licence 
Area (“KLA”). These we achieved.
During 2009, we completed eight shallow supra-
salt wells in the KLA and commenced drilling 
the Grafovskaya #1 sub-salt exploration well.
The resulting growth in oil production has 
enabled Volga Gas to reach a significant 
milestone for a young company: positive EBITDA 
and operating cash flow. This allows us to deploy 
our equity entirely in the most value-productive 
part of our activities – growing the asset base.
This is exemplified by the commencement  
of drilling of Grafovskaya #1, on the Yuzhny 
Ershovskoye prospect which itself was one of  
the original catalysts for the establishment of 
Volga Gas. In parallel, we have progressed with 
the geological and geophysical studies on 
opportunities to follow on from a successful 
outcome. Two further high impact sub-salt 
exploration targets have been advanced 
sufficiently to be ready for drilling.
Prior to undertaking this technically challenging 
well, we considered it vital for the Company to 
have sufficient financial headroom to deal with 
possible cost overruns. For this reason, we 
launched a placing of 27 million shares to raise 
net proceeds of US$26.6 million. Management is 
appreciative of the continuing support of 
shareholders in the placing.
We had at the beginning of the year also expected 
to bring the Vostochny Makarovskoye gas field into 
production. We did complete two production wells 
and installed intra-field pipelines, but the planned 
acquisition of a 75% interest in a gas processing unit 
was still under negotiation by the end of the year. 
As announced on 4 March 2010, this acquisition is 
now moving towards legal completion. We will now 
proceed as quickly as possible to enable the gas 
processing unit to commence operation and to start 
the first phase of production from the Vostochny 
Makarovskoye field. 07
Volga Gas plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2009 volgagas.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
During the first quarter of 2010, we have 
continued to enjoy net positive operating cash 
flow and have fulfilled all of our obligations on 
the licences where we have recognised reserves 
and prospective resources. Our planned capital 
expenditure for 2010 totals US$14.0 million, 
including the portion of the Grafovskaya #1 well 
cost falling in 2010. The Group is thus well 
positioned to move quickly to bring Vostochny 
Makarovskoye into production as and when the 
commercial and legal arrangements over the gas 
processing facilities have been resolved.
We now have Russian C1 recoverable reserves  
of 45.4 million barrels of oil equivalent and a 
Executing  
our strategy 
1. Developing our production assets
With successful completion of the first phase 
development drilling on the Uzenskoye field, 
the focus turns towards managing production 
with a view to maximising ultimate extraction 
from the field. With eventual start up of 
production from Vostochny Makarovskoye and 
with appraisal of other identified resources, 
Volga Gas looks forward to developing a 
growing and sustainable production business 
from its existing licence areas.
2. Sub-salt exploration
We are completing drilling our first sub-salt 
well Grafovskoye #1, in the KLA and are 
carefully evaluating the potential of the 
further 22.3 million barrels equivalent of C2 
recoverable reserves contained in just two  
fields. This solid base of reserves and resources 
gives us confidence that we can continue to 
build Volga Gas into a successful and profitable 
independent exploration and production 
company and to create sustainable value  
for our shareholders.
Mikhail Ivanov
Chief Executive Officer
hydrocarbons found there. We have two 
additional major sub-salt exploration projects 
both within the Karpenskiy Licence and in the 
Pre-Caspian Licence Area. 
3. Financing
With funds raised in 2009, our existing funds 
are sufficient to meet our current commitments 
and planned developments. Timely execution 
of our further sub-salt exploration strategy 
may require additional funds or the creation  
of joint ventures with other parties.
4. Acquisitions
Our acquisition strategy has enabled the 
company to secure an asset base of four 
licences with low entry cost. We regularly 
evaluate further similar opportunities where 
we can rapidly add value and, where possible, 
incremental production volumes.
Flow lines within the Vostochny 
Makarovskoye Licence.
