 team with in-depth experience in our products and 
markets, combined with leadership, organisational and 
process capabilities honed in organisations much 
larger than Volex today. This talented team brings a 
high level of professionalism to the Group and the 
strategies we are currently implementing will grow 
Volex to a size and scale that matches this expertise.
Developing a clear strategy
Setting a clear direction and purpose has been key  
to revitalising the business. Our strategy focuses on 
becoming a truly global business, driving sales growth 
via strong global, sector-based sales and account 
management. Our sales and operations focus is on  
the high growth, emerging economies in India, Brazil 
and China, while continuing to deliver for our 
established customers in North America and Europe.
Margin improvement is also a key strategic objective 
through designed-in content and early engineering 
engagement with customers. This investment in early 
product lifecycle and key client engagement was integral 
to our improved gross margin performance in the last 
financial year, increasing to 20.2% (2009: 15.9%). T o 
continue that improvement, we need to increase the 
percentage of products shipped that contain this Volex 
engineered content. 
In our manufacturing operations we are implementing 
LEAN manufacturing techniques to increase utilisation of 
existing factory capacity and to deliver improved speed, 
efficiency and quality. 
To provide a firm foundation for our growth targets,  
we will be implementing standardised processes, 
measurements and IT systems to provide a platform 
for sound, data-driven decisions and to help optimise 
operations. Standardising our products, organisation, 
processes and platforms will enable us to produce real 
and sustainable growth in revenues and significant 
efficiency and quality gains in operations and supply 
chain processes. 
Aligning the organisation
During the year, the business was reorganised along 
market sector and functional lines, under the new 
management team. We can now implement coherent, 
global strategies that cross geographical boundaries.
Our market sectors are now defined as 
Telecommunications/DataCommunications (Telecoms / 
Datacoms), Healthcare, Consumer and Industrial. 
Today, all staff across the Group report to their 
functional, global head including Sales & Marketing, 
Operations, Finance, Engineering and Human 
Resources. Through this organisation structure, Volex 
can align its global strategies and capabilities with our 
strategic clients and targets. Building a more balanced 
business will also increase our resilience to market 
fluctuations and enhance our ability to capitalise  
on opportunities.
Telecoms/Datacoms
This market sector serves the mobile connectivity, 
broadband networks and high-performance data-centre 
markets. In the last year, the segment has penetrated 
key emerging accounts such as Huawei and ZTE in 
Our objective last year was to 
demonstrate clearly to all Volex 
stakeholders that we have stabilised 
the business – both operationally  
and financially.
Return to growth 
Our objective last year was to demonstrate clearly  
to all Volex stakeholders that we have stabilised  
the business – both operationally and financially.  
Our quarter on quarter improvements in revenues, 
operating profit and cash flow are evidence of  
our progress and set the stage for the next phase  
of development – a return to growth.  
Sound foundations for the future have been put in 
place. Volex now has a strong, dynamic executive 
Chief Executive’s review
Executing a defined strategy:
>  Drive sales growth with global, 
sector-based sales and increasing 
focus on customers in high-growth 
developing countries.
>  Drive margin improvement through 
increasing designed-in content and 
advanced engineering engagement.
>  Implement LEAN manufacturing 
techniques to improve utilisation, 
productivity and quality.
>  Implement standardised processes, 
measurements and IT systems to 
underpin one global team.
14 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business review China at a strategic level, while keeping our long-term 
relationships healthy with core clients like Ericsson and 
Alcatel-Lucent. Although we maintain a modest capital 
expenditure to revenue ratio, we have invested in 
product development in this area, particularly in 
high-speed copper and fibre connectivity. These are 
used in all types of communications networks and are 
particularly effective in extremely dense, high- 
performance cloud computing environments. Our 
industry leadership in standards definition in these 
areas allows us to play an important part in our 
customers’ product development lifecycles. 
Healthcare
Volex has a long and successful history of servicing key 
accounts in the medical equipment field including all 
forms of imaging technologies from x-ray to MRI 
machinery, where we supply cable assembly and 
connector technologies. This segment is optimally 
aligned with our strategy of increasing engineering 
content as our clients require customised solutions and 
early product lifecycle engagement. We are now taking 
our best-in-class expertise in serving European and 
North American clients and applying this to emerging 
suppliers of these technologies in China, Japan and 
India. The Group expects significant long-term growth 
in this sector not only due to well-documented 
demographics on ageing populations and anticipated 
spend on medical care, but also as a result of our 
broadening product scope to include home-healthcare 
products, patient monitoring cables, patient-related 
equipment and consumables. 
Consumer
Representing more than half of our revenue in the last 
financial year, our Consumer sector supplies power and 
data cables and cable assemblies for consumer and 
business hardware such as laptop/desktop computers, 
printers, televisions, power tools, floor cleaning 
equipment and many other applications. We are the 
market leader in this sector and have been able to 
leverage this strong position to significantly increase 
production allocations from our key clients. Our 
considerable engineering talent and experience has 
developed an industry leading, environmentally 
responsible, halogen-free powercord production 
process which is beginning to replace traditional PVC 
compounds. This not only meets or exceeds the 
environmental safety expectations of our clients, but 
also enables us to take market share from competitors 
who have not invested in next generation technology. 
Industrial 
The Industrial sector, while the smallest by share of 
revenues, has some of the most exciting growth 
prospects. Historically this area of the business served 
industrial manufacturing and test equipment, large 
scale cooling hardware, satellite tracking systems and 
even vending machines. We are extending our product 
range to include green energy and smart grid 
technologies. Volex has developed specific cables, 
assemblies and connectors for the solar energy market 
where we have already signed new clients. The team is 
now developing products and relationships in the wind 
power segment where we can supply power and 
control cable assemblies for what is an exciting and 
growing market opportunity. 
Operational excellence 
All our factories and operations are now functioning 
under a single management structure and are beginning 
to implement a common set of operational processes 
and measurements, in addition to implementing a unified 
LEAN manufacturing strategy. While we start the new 
financial year with a utilisation rate of approximately 50% 
across our total factory capacity, we expect to add an 
additional 30% capacity through efficiency programmes 
and LEAN manufacturing by the end of the year. We 
have no plans to further restructure or reduce our factory 
footprint, but intend to capitalise on our current fixed 
cost base as we grow revenues. This will increase our 
operating margin through more efficient use of space, 
equipment and labour and give us a more competitive 
cost base. Our factories are rapidly becoming a strategic 
asset to the Group, helping us differentiate our offering to 
the market based on capability, cost and quality.
Volex continues to drive efficiency through our supply 
chain processes. In the last year we reduced the 
supplier base by more than 30% and anticipate we 
will repeat that performance in the coming year. 
Consolidating our spend with fewer suppliers gives 
negotiating leverage in price and enables us to 
participate in supplier managed hubs so we only 
replenish inventories when raw materials  
are consumed. 
Good progress, but much more to do… 
While we have done much in the last year to stabilise 
the business, there is still demanding work ahead as 
we return to growth and further improve the business. 
We enter the new financial year with the tools to face 
the challenging tasks ahead in driving efficiency 
improvements in all of our factories and operational 
processes, reforming our Information Technology 
platforms, accelerating the deployment of higher 
margin / engineered products and serving our 
customers with a more strategic and global 
perspective. It is only the talent and dedication of our 
people across the globe that makes such complex and 
far-reaching change possible and it is in this resource 
that we entrust our future.
Ray Walsh
Group Chief Executive
 Volex Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 
