 04
Chairman’s Statement
“We believe that Volga  
Gas has performed well  
in 2009. The Company  
has managed successful 
drilling operations,  
most importantly in  
the challenging sub-salt 
exploration project, where 
we look forward to the 
evaluation of the results.”
Having been through a challenging period  
late in 2008 and early 2009, the economic 
environment in Russia stabilised during 2009. 
There has been a strong recovery in global oil 
prices, which was reflected in the prices 
achieved by Volga Gas in 2009.
The Russian Ruble reversed some of its steep 
declines but remains at a level far lower than 
seen up to mid 2008. The developments in the 
Russian gas market in terms of demand and 
pricing were significantly better than the 
consensus expectations early in the year.
We believe that Volga Gas has performed  
well in face of the challenges. Our fields are 
advantageously located and our costs are 
sufficiently low for us to achieve good returns 
even at low oil prices. Most importantly, we  
have fulfilled our licence commitments on  
the Karpenskiy and Vostochny Makarovskoye 
licences and have sufficient funds to meet  
the commitments due in other licence areas 
during 2010.
Volga Gas currently operates entirely in European 
Russia, close to domestic markets and with 
pipeline and logistical infrastructure nearby.  
Our four licence blocks encompass proven oil, 
 gas and condensate in shallow and medium depth 
horizons and major exploration targets in deep 
sub-salt horizons that were previously believed  
to be principally gas and condensate. The actual 
results from our first well suggest that there may 
also be significant oil potential. 
The Group was created to explore the sub-salt 
structures on the Karpenskiy Licence Area 
(“KLA”). The highlight of the 2009 operations was 
the commencement of drilling operations on the 
Group’s first sub-salt exploration well.
As of the date of writing, the well has reached  
a depth of 5,270 metres and drilling continues. 
The commercial significance of any hydrocarbon 
bearing zones encountered has yet to be 
evaluated. If they prove capable of commercial 
production, there would be a significant 
contingent resource for the Group.
We have identified further high impact sub-salt 
exploration targets within our acreage at  
Yuzhny Mokrousovskoye in the KLA and in  
the nearby Pre-Caspian Licence where the 3-D 
seismic acquired in 2009 has already been 
processed and interpreted. This provides the 
opportunity to apply the understanding of the 
sub-salt play acquired from the first well in 
other high impact prospects within our existing 
licence areas.
Volga also achieved an important milestone  
in the Company’s development: a first year 
of substantial revenues and positive cash flow. 
While the financial impact is currently modest, 
as the other assets are brought into production,  05
Volga Gas plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2009 volgagas.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
the vision of Volga Gas as a sustainable and high 
growth oil and gas exploration and production 
business comes a step closer to being realised.
While the Group made progress on most  
fronts, it is frustrating that the Vostochny 
Makarovskoye field is yet to commence 
production. As outlined in the 2008 Annual 
Report, we reached an agreement to acquire a 
75% interest in a gas processing facility being 
constructed by Trans Nafta and had in late 2008 
made a RUR 600 million advance payment for 
this acquisition. In March 2010 the Company 
moved ahead to complete the purchase of the 
75% interest in the gas processing facility.
Since the beginning of 2010, oil production from 
the Uzenskoye supra-salt field has been steady 
although recently transportation by customers 
has been disrupted by unusually heavy snow 
falls. This field continues to provide the Group 
with positive operating cash flow. The key 
activities for 2010 will include ongoing 
management and enhancement of the existing 
production, completion of the Vostochny 
Makarovskoye development and evaluation of 
the results from the sub-salt exploration drilling 
on the Grafovskaya #1 well. During 2010, the 
Group will also evaluate its forward strategy  
in relation to exploration of the sub-salt 
exploration potential in existing licence areas  
as well as opportunities to extend the Group’s 
activities into new areas.
We ended 2009 with cash and bank deposits  
of US$33.6 million and with positive operating 
cash flow. Volga Gas is consequently sufficiently 
funded to complete planned developments and 
to fulfil the committed 2010 exploration work 
programme.
Alexey Kalinin
Chairman
Horses grazing freely within 
the Karpenskiy Licence Area.
