 Overview
11 Volex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman’s letter
I am delighted to report another year of revenue and profit 
growth, particularly in view of the challenging macro-economic 
environment. Equally pleasing is the significant progress we have 
made in our continuing transformation to a customer-focused and 
innovation-driven organisation. As a result of this, we believe your 
Company is well positioned, both operationally and financially, 
to deliver on its future growth plans. 
Resilient growth
Revenue of $518m was 6% ahead of last year (FY2011: $490m), 
with normalised gross margin* up to 19.8%, from 18.8% in FY2011. 
This margin growth helped to increase normalised operating 
profit* to $32.0m, an improvement of 23% over FY2011, despite 
important investments, particularly in the sales, operations and 
technology functions. Normalised earnings per share* increased 
by 31% to 42.4 cents (FY2011: 32.4 cents). The non-recurring start-up 
costs of $5.0m related to the introduction of new product lines 
for our largest customer has advanced our competitive position 
with this customer and generated a substantial step-up in our 
engineering, manufacturing and quality control capabilities. 
These undertakings will support the development of a higher-
margin product portfolio, one of our core corporate goals. 
Investing for further growth
To achieve the foundation for continued substantial, sustainable 
and profitable growth, the Company has made further targeted 
investments in people, platforms and processes. During the year, 
we augmented and restructured our sales organisation, under 
the leadership of a new Chief Sales and Marketing Officer. We 
have also enhanced our technology function, in order to better 
support innovation, improve our new-product development 
capability, and  to ensure we are better placed to fully exploit 
revenue opportunities with existing customers. The continuing 
roll-out of LEAN manufacturing techniques, increased capital 
expenditure in our factories, and advancing the global employee 
culture initiative are further examples of the important investments 
made this year that will deliver growing returns in the future.
Increased dividend
Taking into account the strength of these results and our 
confidence in the future prospects of the Company, the Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 3 cents per share, increasing the full 
year dividend to 4.5 cents (FY2011: 2.0 pence), to be paid after 
obtaining shareholder approval at the AGM on 26 July 2012. 
People
We continue to recognise that people will be the biggest 
determinant of our success. In addition to the vital new hires 
referenced above, the Company has made a significant 
commitment to a global cultural transformation programme that 
we hope will not only deliver better customer outcomes, but also 
help to make the organisation a more rewarding place to work.
On 2 May 2012, we were pleased to invite David McKinney to join 
the Board as Chief Operating Officer, a new Executive Director 
position. David was Chief Operating Officer of Pace plc from 
2005 to 2012, and brings a wealth of operational and business 
experience which will be of great value to the Board in this next 
phase of the Company’s development. On the same day, 
Paul Mountford resigned from the Board of Directors, due to 
the demanding time commitments of his primary role at Cisco 
Systems, Inc. The Board will miss the insights that he provided 
and we thank him for the contributions he made during his 
time with the Company.
Again, it is our pleasure to acknowledge the skills and dedication 
of employees throughout the Company, who have once more 
produced an exceptional performance. Their skills are the real 
assets of our Company and we would like to thank them for their 
valued contributions. 
Outlook
The Board is pleased to have reported another year of very good 
results. It is particularly encouraging that the Company has 
delivered this strong financial performance while making 
substantial investments for the future and at a time of economic 
uncertainty. We are confident that our strategy of unwavering 
customer focus, greater innovation, and operational excellence 
will deliver significant returns for shareholders.
We enter FY2013 with positive momentum and are well-positioned 
to generate continued growth in revenues, margins and profit, in 
line with management’s expectations.
Mike McTighe 
Chairman
* Before non-recurring items and share based payments (see note 7 to the Financial Statements)
We believe your Company is well 
positioned, both operationally 
and financially, to deliver on its 
future growth plans.
Mike McTighe 
Chairman
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
