 Volga Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6
Chief Executive’s Review
The focus for Volga Gas in 2008 was on 
advancing our key exploration and 
production projects; firstly, to ensure that 
production, and hence cash flow, begins 
from the V-M field and from the supra-salt 
Uzenskaya field in the Karpenskiy Licence 
Area (‘KLA ’); secondly, to complete the 
geological studies on the two deep sub-salt 
structures on the KLA, and to prepare for 
the drilling of our first sub-salt exploration 
well there.
We have also had to deal with a serious 
legal challenge, a resolution of which has 
been agreed, and a sudden and sharp 
deterioration of the external business 
environment. We are confident that we 
can withstand these challenges and have 
made good progress in creating a 
profitable and self-sustaining business, 
while in parallel pursuing the high impact 
exploration ventures which were the 
original motivation for the foundation of 
the Company.
During 2008, the majority of the activity 
and investment was concentrated on 
developing our production assets.
Drilling on Uzenskaya delivered better 
than anticipated results, confirming  
a high quality light oil resource. As a  
result of this drilling activity, as recently 
announced, we were able to record 
Russian classification C1 and C2 
recoverable reserves on Uzenskaya  
of 1.9 million tonnes (approximately 
13.9 million barrels). During 2008 we 
completed three production wells on  
this field and each of these flowed at  
rates of between 2,220 and over 4,000 
barrels of oil per day on open hole tests, 
demonstrating very good reservoir 
characteristics. We intend to manage  
the production from this reservoir very 
carefully to ensure maximum recovery  
of the oil in place.
On V-M, our initial results were extremely 
encouraging. As reported in the 2007 
Annual Report, we found a gross gas-
condensate column of close to 200 m  
in the V-M #1 well. This well tested at 
commercial flow rates and led to a Russian 
reserve C1/C2 classification of 7 .141 bcm 
plus 1.528 million tonnes (12.2 million 
barrels) of condensate which was 
approved by the State Committee for 
Mineral Resources in November 2008.  
We also commenced the construction of 
the required gas processing facility for the 
first stage of production with the aim of 
starting production before the end of 2008.
During the year, however, there was a 
legal challenge raised by a shareholder  
of Trans Nafta, the company from which 
we purchased the V-M licence, seeking  
to have our purchase unwound. This 
threatened legal action was later 
withdrawn and we entered into a 
resolution agreement with Trans Nafta 
involving the creation of a gas processing 
joint venture in which Volga Gas will have 
a 75% interest. The establishment of this 
joint venture will require a balancing 
payment by Volga Gas substantially 
covered by a prepayment of 600 million 
Rubles (approximately US$20.4 million) 
made by Volga Gas in November 2008. 
Final details of the structure of the joint 
venture and legal completion of the asset 
transfer are still being negotiated.  21%
Oil 
18%
Condensate 
           
61%
Gas
Volga
Gas
7
Volga Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
The threatened legal action obviously set 
back our plans for first production from 
V-M. First production from the field is 
awaiting completion of construction and 
commissioning of the Dobrinskoye gas 
plant, which is the main asset in the gas 
processing joint venture and through 
which our gas and condensate production 
will flow. We are now hoping to achieve 
first production early in the second half 
of 2009.
Meanwhile we drilled two further wells 
on V-M with mixed results as we detailed 
in recent announcements. We will cover 
this more extensively in the Operational 
Review below, but in summary we 
recognise that there is some risk that 
reserve estimates for the field may be 
subject to future revision. We intend to 
re-examine the technical data on the field 
and incorporate new data from an 
extended period of production from the 
existing wells in order to provide a new 
estimate of recoverable gas and 
condensate reserves by the end of 2009.
Our deep sub-salt exploration projects, 
both in the KLA and in the Pre-Caspian 
Licence Area are as exciting as ever. 
During 2008 we completed processing of 
the new 3-D seismic data that we 
acquired in 2007 over the two main 
exploration prospects identified in the 
KLA. This has refined our picture of the 
potential targets and, we believe, has 
reduced the geological risk associated 
with the prospects. Based on this data we 
have selected a location to drill our first 
well. We have also secured and mobilised 
a suitable rig to drill a 5,000 m sub-salt 
well, although as yet we have not made a 
firm commitment to start drilling.
In the Pre-Caspian Licence Area, analysis 
of the 1,000 km of 2-D seismic data, which 
we acquired during 2008, has confirmed a 
large exploration target in the sub-salt 
play. We now propose to shoot 3-D 
seismic over this structure with the aim 
of facilitating an exploration well within 
the next twelve months.
As a result of this activity we now have a 
total of six productive wells on our two 
fields and expect to add further 
production wells in the course of 2009. 
Based on current plans and assuming no 
exploration success, Volga Gas should by 
the end of 2009 achieve daily production 
of 300,000 m
3
 (approximately 12 million 
cubic feet per day) of gas and 2,000 barrels 
per day of oil and condensate.
Naturally, the revenue and cash flow 
deriving from this production will largely 
depend on the price we realise for our oil, 
condensate and gas sales. In common 
with the rest of the industry, domestic oil 
prices in Russia are currently depressed. 
In the Russian gas market the increases  
in regulated gas prices continue but the 
sharp devaluation of the Ruble against  
the US dollar has led us to expect lower 
US dollar realisations for our short-term 
gas production. Nevertheless, we are 
endeavouring to keep our costs low in 
order to achieve profitability and to be 
able to benefit from a future recovery in 
prices. Meanwhile, lower levels of activity 
in the oil industry and the weak Ruble 
have some beneficial impacts on the costs 
of our ongoing exploration and 
development activities.
We now have Russian C1 Recoverable 
reserves of 43.2 mmBOE and a further  
25.0 million barrels equivalent of C2 
Recoverable reserves contained in just 
two fields. Our C3 Prospective Resources, 
based on just one of the three sizeable 
sub-salt prospects we have mapped 
within our licence blocks, are 
394 mmBOE. This solid base of reserves 
and resources gives us confidence that  
we can continue to build Volga Gas into  
a successful and profitable independent 
exploration and production company  
and to create sustainable value for  
our shareholders.
Volga Gas has a culture of delivering on 
commitments with a small team of 
professionals working smartly. This 
culture will help us meet the challenges 
ahead. The coming year promises to be a 
challenging but exciting one for the team. 
I am confident that they will continue to 
deliver results on schedule and on budget.
Mikhail Ivanov
Chief Executive Officer
Executing our 
strategy
1. Developing our production assets
With greater than anticipated success 
on Uzenskaya, to which we hope to add 
new wells on Vostochny Uzenskaya and 
first production from V-M, Volga Gas 
looks forward to developing a growing 
and sustainable production business 
from its existing licence areas.
2. Exploration of the deep sub-salt 
structures
We have completed the required 
sub-surface work ahead of drilling  
our first sub-salt well Grafovskaya #1,  
in the KLA, and have already secured 
and mobilised a suitable rig for the 
purpose. We intend to commence 
drilling once we are confident of our 
financial position. We are similarly 
progressing with our exploration  
project in the Pre-Caspian Licence Area.
3. Financing
Our existing funds are sufficient  
to meet our current commitments.  
We recognise that timely execution  
of our exploration strategy may require 
additional funds or the creation of joint 
ventures with other parties.
4. Acquisitions
Our acquisition strategy has enabled 
the Company to be secure an asset  
base of four licences with low entry 
cost. We continue to seek further 
similar opportunities where we can 
rapidly add value and, where possible, 
incremental production volumes.
C1/C2 reserves
