 Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 06
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Overview
I am delighted that Volution Group plc is now a listed public company, 
after having had several successful years of private equity ownership. 
With our listing, I believe we will have an even greater opportunity 
to implement the strategic plan, particularly in the area of continuing 
international growth through acquisitions. I am also highly appreciative 
of the support that we have had from our principal shareholder 
and our new investors, and their understanding and backing 
of our long‑ term vision.
Our results for 2014 were strong, reflecting growth both organically 
and through acquisitions. Revenue was up year‑ on‑ year by 18% 
at £120.7 million. Adjusted EBITDA grew strongly to £28.5 million 
or 23.6% of revenue, up 19.8% compared with 2013.
Two acquisitions were completed during the year, significant 
investment was made in new products, and a new production 
facility acquired and equipped at Torin‑ Sifan. We also saw good 
organic growth, especially in the important area of higher value 
ventilation systems used in new residential dwellings.
Ventilation Group: UK
In the UK market, the Ventilation Group achieved sales growth 
in all market sectors. The UK repair, maintenance and improvement 
(RMI) market that we split into both public and private areas of 
focus, continued to show recovery. Our focus on the quiet energy 
efficient solutions in demand in the private market did very well for 
us as did our initiatives to deliver improved ventilation with greater 
controls and functionality for public sector social housing. This 
was despite a backdrop of an overall general market decline.
In the new build residential market, we are starting to benefit from 
the positive effects of additional house completions. The house 
building industry and the social housing RMI market are both driven 
by regulation and consumer preference to construct homes that 
are more carbon and energy efficient. This has seen a move 
towards the use of centralised heating and ventilation systems 
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
Summary
 > Clear strategic plan to grow organically 
and through acquisitions
 > Strong results for 2014 reflecting 
growth both organically and 
through acquisitions
 > Two acquisitions completed in the 
year, significant investment made in 
new products and a new production 
facility opened at Torin‑ Sifan
 > Good organic growth, especially in the 
area of higher value ventilation systems 
used in new residential dwellings
 > Appreciative of the support from our 
principal shareholder and our new 
investors, and their understanding 
and backing of our long‑ term vision Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 07
that are designed to meet the required carbon emission reductions 
without loss of the benefits of air‑ tight construction. Sales growth 
in this area was up 11.2% in the financial year ended 2014 and 
we would expect this trend to continue in the coming years. 
As indoor air quality (IAQ) becomes even more of a concern in 
the future, the Group, with its wide range of brands and in‑ depth 
industry knowledge, is well placed to bring new ventilation 
solutions to the market to meet these growing requirements.
Ventilation Group: International growth through acquisitions
In August 2013, we acquired PAX in Sweden for a total cash 
consideration of £11.5 million. We now have a leading position 
in the Swedish market for ventilation refurbishment in residential 
dwellings. The integration of PAX has been successful and we 
have in place a very strong combined management team under 
the leadership of the country manager for the Nordic region.
The synergies provided by this acquisition have allowed us 
to develop a stronger sales approach to the Swedish market 
in trade and retail accounts across both the Fresh and PAX 
brands. We are actively pursuing further growth opportunities in 
the Nordic region with investments made in our sales teams to 
focus their attentions in the Norwegian, Danish and Finnish markets.
In April 2014, we acquired the assets and intellectual property of 
inVENTer for a cash consideration of £19.1 million. This was the 
culmination of our strategy to find the right acquisition in Germany. 
inVENTer has a leading position in the lucrative and fast growing 
heat recovery ventilation refurbishment market. The inVENTer 
brand has been trading for over 15 years and provides us with 
the ideal platform for further growth into other areas of the residential 
ventilation market in Germany. The integration of inVENTer is 
proceeding well.
At the time of the acquisition of inVENT er we were aware of a decline 
in sales to a small number of its larger customers. The purchase 
consideration was reduced accordingly. After acquisition, sales to 
these customers continued to decline, necessitating an impairment 
of our intangible asset, customer base (recognised at fair value 
at the time of acquisition). We have had growth in sales to other 
customers that were not included in the valuation of our customer 
base. Recovery of sales in the affected regions, the appointment 
of new sales agents, and the roll out of a new range of centralised 
heat recovery systems is an area of focus for us during the 
current financial year.
OEM (Torin-Sifan)
Torin‑ Sifan had a more challenging year due to the mild winter, with 
our sales of gas boiler combustion motors declining from the prior 
year. This area of the business will continue to be important to us. 
Over the last two years, we have made a significant investment in 
developing a new range of high performing air movement products 
that meet the energy efficiency demands placed on this industry. 
With these new electronically commutated (EC) products and 
the Group’s investment in a modern production site close to 
the well‑ established Torin‑ Sifan Swindon headquarters, we believe 
we are in a good position to ensure our long‑ term future growth.
Three strategic pillars 
Our strategy continues to focus on three key pillars:
 > organic growth in our core markets;
 > growth through a disciplined and value‑ adding acquisition 
strategy; and
 > to further develop Torin‑ Sifan’s range and build customer 
preference and loyalty.
In our core markets, we expect to continue to benefit from a 
favourable regulatory backdrop that focuses on reducing carbon 
emissions from buildings; the need for improving energy efficiency; 
and the emerging understanding of the importance of indoor air 
quality in the developed world. The Group will continue to gain 
from these market developments with our specialised approach 
to each market area. By building on our internal resources and 
focusing on product management and product development, this 
will enable us to deliver product and system solutions to meet 
customers’ needs.
The ventilation market in Europe remains highly fragmented and 
we intend to continue to explore selective acquisition opportunities 
to increase our international footprint. Our track record over the 
last two years of making acquisitions and successfully integrating 
them into our Group shows our ability to add new competencies 
and to expand into new markets and this serves us well for future 
acquisitions in the coming years.
I would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work 
demonstrated by our employees along with our management 
teams from across our Group companies. Our people are key 
to the success of the Group. I would like to thank them all for 
their support during this historic year and for their continued 
contribution to our success. 
These are exciting times for us as we move forward as a listed 
public company, with the stability and platform that it provides 
to us in achieving our strategic goals.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
23 October 2014
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board 
on 23 October 2014.
By order of the Board
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
