 02_Annual Report and Accounts 2010
We believe that Volga Gas has a strong 
asset base and the financial and operational 
capability to develop and extend these 
to provide long term value growth for 
our shareholders.
2010 has been a year of transition for Volga Gas. The 
production side of the business performed well and enabled 
the Group to continue generating positive net operating  
cash flow and to maintain a strong financial position with 
US$26.6 million of net cash. In addition, the Group has 
significant proven reserves in its two principal fields,  
which form the basis of a rising profile of future production. 
Our fields are advantageously located and our costs are 
sufficiently low for us to achieve good returns at oil and  
gas prices significantly lower than those we currently 
enjoy. Most importantly, we have fulfilled our licence 
commitments on the Karpenskiy and Vostochny 
Makarovskoye licences and have sufficient funds  
to meet the commitments due in other licence areas.
During 2010 drilling of the Group’s first deep sub-salt exploration 
well was completed and the well was subjected to a series of 
flow tests. Unfortunately, although there were five zones in the 
well with indications of hydrocarbons, no commercial flow rates 
were achieved.
Whilst this result is clearly a disappointment, it had no impact  
on our existing reserves or on our other exploration targets.  
The Group has identified material exploration targets within 
existing acreage that can be tested at low cost. These will form 
the short-term focus of activity. In addition, the deeper sub-salt 
potential of the area remains untested in other parts of the 
licence areas, on which, based on the knowledge gained from 
our first well we may consider further sub-salt drilling in the future.
On the Vostochny Makarovskoye (“VM”) field, we continued to deal 
with the legal and commercial matters that have so far delayed 
the development. Much of the physical infrastructure for VM is in 
place and the initial wells are ready for production. In fact, the 
wells have been placed successfully on long-term test production.
As stated in previous Annual Reports, Volga Gas had planned  
to acquire a 75% interest in a gas processing unit (“GPU”) built 
by Trans Nafta 5km from the VM licence area. After a lengthy 
but successful legal process over the last two years, we now 
appear to be reaching a conclusion which will result in Volga 
Gas acquiring the gas processing unit and other assets from 
Trans Nafta. We hope for a timely resolution of this matter and 
to move on to start production from the VM field.
Outlook and strategy
During 2011, the strategic priority of the Group will be to make 
significant progress towards full commercial operation of the 
VM field. The Board is also evaluating opportunities to extend 
the Group’s activities into new areas, where we have identified 
the potential to add significant value and incremental  
production volumes.
The Board believes that Volga Gas has a strong asset base and 
the financial and operational capability to develop and extend 
these to provide long term value growth for our shareholders.
Alexey Kalinin
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Volga Gas plc
Storage tanks at the 
Uzenskoye field
