 Volga Gas plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 
 
 
3 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
 
Dear Shareholder, 
 
2011 has been a transformational year for Volga Gas, with the acquisition of OOO Gazneftedobycha (“GND”) allowing the Company 
to conclude the long running legal and commercial differences with Trans Nafta and enable the Group to proceed with the final 
stages of preparation for production from the Group’s largest field, Vostochny Makarovskoye. 
The production side of the business continued to perform well in 2011 and with the additional production acquired with GND, the 
Group reported significant increases in revenues, EBITDA and operating cash flow. 
The strong cash flow has enabled the Group to repay a significant proportion of the loans that were inherited with GND, while 
maintaining a strong financial position, with cash balances of over US$10 million at the end of the year.   
The cash generating capability of the fields was also an important factor in the Group’s ability to secure its first commercial debt 
facility which was signed post the year end on 26 March 2012.  This facility will provide the necessary financial flexibility to support 
the Group’s short and medium term investment strategy which will further drive production growth in 2012 and 2013. 
The Group has significant proven reserves in its three principal fields, which form the basis of an established and rising profile of 
production.  Our fields are advantageously located and our costs are sufficiently low for us to achieve good returns at oil and gas 
prices significantly lower than those we currently enjoy.  Most importantly, these assets provide a strong platform for the Group to 
grow in the future, both through successful exploration and by selective value accretive acquisitions. 
Volga Gas has identified material exploration prospects within existing acreage that can be tested at low cost.  In addition, the 
deeper sub-salt potential of our licences remains largely untested. Based on the knowledge gained from our first well drilled in 
2009-2010, we may consider further sub-salt drilling in the future. 
During 2012, the strategic priority of the Group will be to achieve full commercial operation of the Vostochny Makarovskoye field, 
and to complete projects to enhance production from the Group’s other two fields.  The Board is also evaluating opportunities to 
extend the Group’s activities into new areas, where we have identified the potential to add significant value and incremental 
production volumes.   
The Board believes that Volga Gas has a strong asset base and the financial and operational capability to develop and extend these 
assets to provide long term value growth for our shareholders. 
 
Alexey Kalinin 
Chairman 
 
