 Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 18
Mechanical 
Ventilation with 
Heat Recovery 
(MVHR)
We provide ventilation solutions across a wide range of product categories. However, with 
homes across Europe becoming more airtight and better insulated, centralised, energy efficient 
heat recovery ventilation is one of the fastest growing categories.
The principle
MVHR is a whole dwelling ventilation system that supplies 
and extracts air continuously at a low rate with the facility to be 
boosted as required meeting building regulations across Europe.
The unit is normally installed in the loft space or cupboard. Using 
rigid ducting it supplies fresh filtered air to the habitable rooms 
(bedrooms, living areas) and extracts stale polluted air from the “wet” 
rooms (bathrooms, kitchens and WCs). Supply and extract diffusers 
are fitted to the ceilings and are adjusted to balance the system 
making sure the correct amount of air is provided in each area.
The unit incorporates a heat exchanger (see diagram opposite) 
that recovers the heat from the exhaust air and uses it to temper 
the incoming air before it is delivered to the habitable rooms. 
The efficiency of the heat exchanger can be up to 95%, so returning 
the majority of the heat back to the dwelling. This reduces the 
heat loss associated with ventilation providing the most energy 
efficient form of ventilation available.
Technology Highlight
Fresh incoming air
Warm incoming air
Extract air from the home
Stale air to outside
Fresh incoming air
Warm incoming air
Extract air from the home
Stale air to outside Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 19
Health benefits and customer interface
The units incorporate filters and run continuously providing fresh 
filtered air all day. The units have become increasingly sophisticated 
over recent years and we now have products certified in the UK, 
Germany and France meeting each countries stringent test standards.
There are a number of areas where we provide value to our 
customers through this device. The primary differentiators are 
around the way the units operate, with a range of sensors and 
remote switching options enabling customers to operate their 
ventilation in line with their lifestyles. 
We have unique frost protect cycles for very cold winters, highly 
customised summer bypass algorithms preventing over heating 
in the summer as well as a full suite of integrated and remote 
sensors including temperature, humidity and CO
2
.
With a new range of products currently under development, 
we will soon have what we believe to be the most advanced 
range of new generation devices available.
MVHR case study
Our Vent-Axia division will supply Sentinel Kinetic Plus 
ventilation units for the 414 flats in the Saffron Square 
development in Croydon, UK.
The Sentinel Kinetic Plus is a cutting‑ edge MVHR system 
designed for larger new build properties and light commercial 
applications. A whole house, multi‑ room ducted solution, this 
MVHR system combines supply and extract ventilation in one 
unit. Warm, moist air is extracted from “wet” rooms through 
ducting and passed through the heat exchanger before being 
exhausted to the outside. Fresh incoming air is preheated via 
the integral heat exchanger which recovers more than 90% 
of the heat energy that would otherwise be wasted.
We are delighted to be 
involved in such an exciting 
project. Saffron Square is one of 
a number of major developments 
we are working on. Heat recovery 
ventilation is a must for energy 
efficient developments, reducing 
excessive moisture in the air, 
combating condensation and 
subsequent mould growth and 
saving money on maintenance 
and decoration.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
