 VOLGA GAS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
INTRODUCTION
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5
Chairman’s Statement
201 3 was a pivotal year for  
Volga Gas, with the main event  
for the Company being the 
significant increase in capacity  
and throughput at the 
Dobrinskoye gas plant.
Dear Shareholder,
2013 was a pivotal year for Volga Gas, with the main event for the 
Company being the significant increase in capacity and throughput 
at the Dobrinskoye gas plant which has enabled full production 
from the existing wells on the Group’s largest field, Vostochny 
Makarovskoye. This has enabled the Group to exit 2013 producing 
at a rate of over 4,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day, an increase 
of 58% over the rate of production at the start of the year. As the 
majority of the increase came in November 2013, the full year 
production, revenue and cash flow numbers in 2013, although well 
ahead of 2012, do not properly reflect the current capabilities of 
the Group’s fields.
With the major portion of production growth in 2013 coming from 
gas rather than condensate and oil, the growth in revenue was not as 
marked as that in volume. However, the relatively lower taxation 
applied in Russia to gas and condensate as opposed to crude oil is a 
benefit to the profit margin and to the economics of gas production.
It is gratifying to report that even though Volga Gas is still very 
much on a growth track in terms of production and development, it 
has remained strongly cash generative. The Group has funded its 
2013 capital expenditures and fully repaid its bank debt with cash 
generated from operations.
The key operational objectives for 2014 will be to complete the 
final stages of the upgrade to the Dobrinskoye gas plant, obtain 
the required permits for full commercial operation at the design 
rate of over 35 million cubic feet per day, and to continue to build 
on the fields’ production capability to make full utilisation of the 
gas plant capacity. Meanwhile, the current production levels 
generate sufficient cash to fund the continuing development of 
the assets which in turn we anticipate will lead to further growth in 
production and cash flow.
We believe Volga Gas is currently in a position to consider providing 
cash returns to shareholders. The Board has initiated a process 
which will enable Volga Gas to have sufficient distributable reserves 
to enable distributions. You will see in the Notice of Annual General 
Meeting for 2014, a Special Resolution that relates to this matter.
The Group maintains significant proven reserves in its three 
principal fields, which were subject to an independent evaluation 
during 2012. These fields form the basis of growth in production in 
the near term. Our fields are advantageously located and our costs 
are sufficiently low for us to achieve good returns at oil and gas 
prices significantly lower than those we currently experience. Most 
importantly, these assets provide a strong platform for the Group 
to grow in the future, both through successful exploration and by 
selective value accretive acquisitions.
Volga Gas has also identified material exploration prospects within 
existing acreage that can be tested at low cost.
The Board believes that Volga Gas has a strong asset base and the 
financial and operational capability to develop and extend these 
assets to provide long term value growth for our shareholders.
Aleksey Kalinin
Chairman
Aleksey Kalinin
Chairman
