 02
Chairman’s statement
Voller Energy Group Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
I am pleased to report that encouraging progress has been achieved in the year 
to 30 June 2008. The Group has begun shipping pilot commercial units of the 
Emerald 1kW APU (Auxiliary Power Unit) system running from LPG. 
The Emerald system is being installed in a number of differing customer situations 
in the target markets of construction, leisure and infrastructure management. 
These include the installation of units in welfare cabins supplied by GenQuip Plc, 
the installation of a unit to power a CCTV camera in a traffic monitoring system and 
the installation of a unit in a mobile information sign for the Dutch Ministry of Works.
The units delivered to GenQuip represented the initial batch of 5 systems as part of 
the total order received from them for twenty units.
I can also report that following the successful participation of Voller’s Beneteau
Oceanis 411 yacht in the Atlantic Rally for Cruisers it is considered that the marketing
profile of the product in the marine market is sufficiently high and as a consequence
the yacht has been sold. This race and other trials have proven the utility of the
Emerald system in the marine and leisure space and the extensive interest in the
product in these applications is reflected in the initial units ordered by our appointed
distributors in our target geographic markets. 
The Emerald units are manufactured at the Group’s facility in Basingstoke which was
extended in October 2007. In addition further development work has resulted in the
filing of new patents on the Emerald system and a further strengthening of the Group’s
intellectual property .
The feedback from our customers is very encouraging and this feedback, combined
with our on-going testing programme, is being used to make further improvements to
the product. The manufactured cost of the initial units has not been recouped in its
entirety from the revenue generated and a gross loss has been sustained per unit
which was in accordance with the financial plan for the year. As sales increase a
reduction in the cost of components will be secured which together with the continuing
re-design of the product will minimise the excess of cost over revenue. Nonetheless the
absorption of this cost together with continuing development expenditure and other
overhead costs continues to deplete the cash resources of the Company .
Financial results 
These financial results are the first results following the adoption of International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. 
Sales for the year of £105k (2007: £42k) included for the first time revenue generated
from the sales of the Emerald 1Kw APU. This is encouraging progress and reflects on
the initial successful delivery of commercial product. 
Research and development expenses of £1.1m remained in line with the previous year
of £1.0m reflecting the continued work on the development of the Emerald product. 
Administrative expenses of £2.795m (2007: £2.543m) increased during the year
primarily as a result of the costs of the manufacturing operation expanded at our
Basingstoke facility during the current year and the increased charge for 
Share Options.  
Interest receivable fell as a consequence of the reduction in the cash balance. 
The loss before taxation for the year of £2.799m (2007: £2.248m) was better than budget.
At the end of year the group had cash in hand of £1.948m (2007: £4.732m) and as
indicated in my comments below, additional funding is required to enable the Group 
to complete its development programme. 
“During the year we
have installed prototype
units into our chosen
market segments of
construction and
infrastructure
management.” 03
Chairman’s statement
Voller Energy Group Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
People
During the year we have strengthened our development team but have taken action to
reduce sales and marketing personnel as we focus on a more targeted approach of
limited key accounts. 
All of our employees make a valued contribution to the Group’s activities and I would
like to thank them for all their continued contribution. As announced on 5 August 2008,
Stephen Voller stepped down as the CEO to pursue other business interests and Robin
Francis, the Group’s Chief T echnology Officer, took over as CEO. 
Strategic Review
In February 2008 the Group announced that a strategic review of the options open to
the Group would be undertaken by Deloitte Corporate Finance. The objective of this
Strategic Review was to maximise shareholder value. The Company announced in
February that these options may include, but were not limited to, strategic alliances,
mergers, refinancing or a sale of the business.  In February we said that this process
may or may not lead to an offer being made for the Company . Whilst this review has
been in progress action has been taken to reduce overhead cost wherever possible
without damaging the future development of the business. Headcount in Sales &
Marketing has been reduced which, along with other overhead savings, will reduce the
cost base for the new financial year. However, there is no doubt that progress of putting
the Emerald units into the market place has been slower than we would have wished;
the Company does not currently have the cash resources to achieve its development
programme and further funding will be required, which is why we have engaged
Deloitte Corporate Finance to assist in the process of securing the necessary funding 
to allow the Group to continue in operation.
Whilst the outcome of the process remains uncertain, in the opinion of the Directors,
there is sufficient reason to believe that the outcome, if successful, could provide
sufficient funding for the Company to develop the business for the forseeable future.
Accordingly the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
John Brown FCCA
Chairman
01 October 2008
