 As the Chairman has noted, 2014 was the first 
full year in which Volga Gas produced its gas 
and condensate wells at capacity with the gas 
plant operating fully to expectations and 
enabling the Group to record a 43% increase 
in production compared to 2013. This 
increased production combined with steady 
oil and gas prices – at least for the first ten 
months of 2014 – enabled the Group to enjoy 
strong cash flow and strengthen its financial 
position, while providing the flexibility to 
manage the effects of the subsequent 
downturn in international oil prices.
As detailed in the Operational Review on 
pages 8 and 9, the majority of the work on 
our producing assets base remained focused 
on our main field, Vostochny Makarovskoye 
(“VM”). On VM, the Group commenced the 
drilling of a new producing well, VM#3. 
Although, as detailed below, the well was not 
completed during 2014, we now expect it to 
be producing in mid-2015.
Crude oil production, on the other hand, 
continued to decline. Production from the 
Uzenskoye field was further reduced to 
prevent a rising water cut. In addition, 
production from the single well Sobolevskoye 
field ceased. While it is now a minor part of 
the Group’s business, Volga Gas had made 
very good returns from these assets and 
continues to benefit from the cash 
generation they provide.
In 2014 as in 2013, exploration activity was 
limited, although a number of significant 
exploration prospects in the Group’s 
Karpenskiy licence area have been identified 
for future exploration drilling.
2015 Objectives – VM Development and 
LPG Project
The Group’s key operational objectives in 
2015 are to complete the drilling of the VM#3 
and VM#4 wells on the VM field and to 
complete the Front End Engineering and 
Design work for an LPG extraction project. 
The aim is to increase production from the 
VM field so as to maximise the utilisation of 
the 1 million m
3
 per day (35 mmcf/d) 
processing capacity of the gas plant.
Based on initial studies, the LPG project could 
enable the Group to achieve a significant 
enhancement of the value of the gas plant 
output and the investment required for this 
could be recovered within three years from 
the increased income and improved 
profitability.
Finance
The Group maintained a strong level of cash 
generation from operating activities 
throughout 2014, enabling it to fund its 
capital expenditure for the year from 
operating cash flow and to make its maiden 
interim dividend payment of $0.0375 per 
ordinary share in October 2014, while 
increasing its cash balance from US$8.1 
million to US$15.8 million during the year.
Capital expenditure in 2014 was less than 
originally planned mainly because the 
operational difficulties experienced on 
drilling the VM#3 well led to a delay in the 
completion of that well and deferral of 
further drilling into 2015.
Although the planned field development 
expenditures in 2015 and beyond are 
expected to be funded from operating cash 
flow, the Group may consider a moderate 
level of borrowing to be appropriate to fund 
significant value accretive investments like 
the LPG project.
Current trading
As announced on 19 February 2015, during 
January and February 2015 disruption to the 
domestic oil market in Russia following the 
recently implemented tax changes had an 
impact on the ability of purchasers of 
condensate from Volga Gas to take delivery 
and subsequently led to the temporary 
suspension of production at the Company’s 
VM and Dobrinskoye gas fields. Consequently 
for this period actual production was 
significantly below the capacity of the fields. 
Since 16 February 2015, Group production 
has resumed at close to full production 
capacity of approximately 4,500 barrels of oil 
equivalent per day (“boepd”).
The major tax changes implemented at the 
start of 2015 included a significant reduction 
in the rate of export tax coupled with a rise in 
Mineral Extraction Taxes on oil and 
condensate. However the domestic market 
prices in Russia, which hitherto reflected full 
netback pricing, have not risen to match the 
drop in export taxes. Meanwhile MET charges 
are calculated with reference to export prices 
and this has led to the Group experiencing 
higher than anticipated MET charges relative 
to income since the start of 2015.
Chief Executive’s Report
Mikhail Ivanov
Chief Executive Officer
06 VOLGA GAS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Condensate sales loading point.
Gas processing trains.
Dobrinskoye gas plant.
Outlook
It is our current expectation that the VM#3 
well will be completed during H1 2015. In 
addition, we have mobilised a second rig to 
drill a sidetrack to the VM#4 well, which was 
originally drilled in 2008 but was not 
productive. The sidetrack will be deviated 
towards the centre of the field where it is 
expected to intersect productive reservoir. 
Further drilling, notably the VM#5 well, is 
also anticipated for later in 2015. Assuming 
successful drilling of the new wells, 
management expects to increase production 
to above 5,000 boepd by the end of 2015.
Clearly with significantly lower oil prices and a 
sharply devalued Ruble, the revenues as 
reported in US Dollars would not reflect this 
progress. However, with its costs almost 
entirely in Rubles, the Group is expected to 
remain profitable and cash generative even 
without a significant recovery in oil prices and 
in spite of the increased rate of production 
taxes that have come into effect.
The total capital expenditure budgeted for 
2015 is approximately US$14 million. All of 
this expenditure is discretionary and can be 
deferred or cancelled if necessary. 
Management expects the 2015 capital 
expenditure to be funded entirely from 
existing cash resources and cash generated 
from operations.
We look forward to delivering a rising stream 
of production and further financial growth.
Mikhail Ivanov
Chief Executive Officer
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
07 VOLGA GAS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
