 04
Chief Executive’s review
Voller Energy Group Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
The Group’s clean, environmentally friendly power systems address two topics of
particular importance for both users and the wider world: the desire to reduce fuel
costs, and the need to reduce harmful atmospheric emissions. As concern grows over
the rising cost of fuel and the environmental impact of energy generation, the market
demand for these products will only get stronger. 
In 2005 following our initial AIM listing we began the programme of developing a fuel
cell system that runs from available fuels, which we refer to as the Emerald product
family . The first of the Emerald products, a 1kW fuel cell system running from LPG
(liquefied petroleum gas, propane or Calor Gas) has begun to be shipped. Emerald acts
as an automatic and intelligent battery charger, providing a far more fuel efficient
system than an equivalent diesel or LPG generator. 
The emissions from Emerald are considerably lower than those from a conventional
generator. Emissions of the main greenhouse gas carbon dioxide are substantially
reduced, while emissions of noxious emissions such as nitrogen oxide, sulphur 
dioxide and carbon monoxide are almost zero. 
There are two aspects of Voller’s developments that make them unique;
Hydrogen is not required; use available fuels
Many fuel cell developers still rely on very pure hydrogen to fuel their products.
Hydrogen remains a difficult fuel to obtain, and is costly to store and transport. In the
markets that Voller operate in; being construction, infrastructure management and
leisure, there is no widespread adoption of hydrogen, nor is it likely that there will be
any widespread adoption of the fuel in the near future. 
Many analysts are now agreed that unless hydrogen is produced from a sustainable
source, using hydrogen as a distributed fuel source has a very limited positive effect on
the environment and may even have a negative effect. This is because the energy needed
to produce, compress, store and transport the fuel is a very high proportion of the
energy ultimately delivered. Sustainable sources of hydrogen are very limited at present.
A much more effective way to produce hydrogen is by using a reformer based system,
where a conventional hydrocarbon fuel such as propane is converted to hydrogen and
carbon species. The hydrogen produced is used directly in the fuel cell system so that
expensive storage and transportation cost are avoided.
Every Emerald system has a reformer system inside so that a standard bottle of
propane can be connected to the system and used directly . Propane is a universally
available, familiar and economic fuel. 
Systems and hybrid approach
Fuel cells make very efficient battery chargers, and all of Voller’s systems use a
combination of fuel cell and battery technology . Batteries are low-cost and reliable, and
provide an effective way of meeting peak power demands, while the fuel cell is used to
service the average power demands. 
Voller is a systems integrator, providing a complete and easy system for our customers.
The Emerald units are designed as “fit and forget” systems that are easy to install and
which automatically charge the battery pack thus ensuring that power is always
available to the user. 
T echnology Review 
This year has seen the 1kW Emerald product moving from laboratory pre-production
prototypes into pilot manufacture and the installation of these units in a number of
platforms. These include the first site welfare cabins supplied by GenQuip Plc, a traffic
CCTV monitoring system to be used by the Highways Agency and a mobile traffic sign
platform under a Dutch government programme. These installations, following on from
the successful field trials last year, have convincingly demonstrated the utility and
attractiveness of the Emerald system in both mobile and static off-grid applications 
and represent the important step of placing the units in the hands of “real users” in 
the actual application environments. 
“The Group is
excellently placed to
meet the growing
market for
environmentally
friendly power
generation systems.” 05
Chief Executive’s review
Voller Energy Group Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
The Emerald system is designed to operate as an automatic battery charger and to
replace conventional generators in a variety of static and mobile applications. 
The Emerald system provides reliable power to users with none of the noise, smell and
vibration associated with generator systems. Furthermore, the low servicing needs and
fuel efficiency of the units means the overall lifetime costs to users are projected to be
lower, despite a higher up front capital cost. 
In the construction market segment we have been working with our partner GenQuip
Plc to prove the application of the Emerald system within their range of welfare site
cabins. A number of units have been installed and used by GenQuip personnel for
several months and we are working with GenQuip to distribute the first commercial
units to GenQuip’s preferred hire company partners. 
In the transport infrastructure market we have installed two units in government-
funded trials, one in the UK and one in Holland. These trials will prove the performance
of the units in these applications prior to larger scale rollout. 
In the leisure market our field trials during the past year have helped us to prove the
basic performance of the units in the application space and to develop the products
further. Along with our distribution partners, we are looking forward to shipping the
first units in the next year. 
Over the year we have continued to strengthen our intellectual property position. 
We have filed three core patents on the Emerald system and have further filings in
progress relating to continuing improvements in the system design. Additionally ,
Emerald is controlled and monitored by our proprietary software package “Emerald
T alk”, which forms an integral part of the system. 
Looking further into the future work has begun on the next generation of Emerald
products. The Company’s product development strategy is based around the expansion
of the Emerald product platform in two main directions: 
• the development of higher power systems with a net electrical power output of 
up to 5kW; and
• the development of systems capable of operating on liquid fuels, 
in particular diesel. 
Higher power systems will allow Voller to target additional market segments with
greater power requirements than can be supported by the current Emerald product.
These include some parts of the back-up power market, the materials handling market,
and many specialist vehicle applications. Furthermore these systems will expand the
range of applications which can be served in the core markets for Emerald, for example
larger marine craft and recreational vehicles (RV), larger static cabins in the
construction market, and large permanent traffic signs. We have identified the core
components for this product range and expect commercial systems to be available in
approximately two years. 
The development of diesel systems will allow increased penetration of market
segments where diesel is preferred over LPG. This includes segments such as larger
marine craft, truck  auxilliary power unit (APU) systems and the military . The Company
is working on a diesel-reforming system in a collaboration with the University of
Cambridge, along with other collaborations and in-house research. 
Ultimately these developments will result in a family of transportable or small
stationary products with power outputs ranging from 1-5kW and which operate from 
a variety of fuels. 
Outlook
The Company has demonstrated the basic effectiveness of the Emerald system in its
chosen markets and is well positioned in the growing market for low-emission
technology . The Company has built considerable Intellectual Property (IP) and know-
how in this complex area. The focus now is to achieve follow-on sales in the chosen
markets and to consolidate our supply position with strategic customers in our 
target markets.
The future of the Company is however dependent on additional funding. Further details
are given in both the Chairman’s statement under “Strategic Review” and in Note 3
attached to these financial statements.
Robin Francis
Chief Executive Officer
01 October 2008
