 Strategic Report
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 02
Chairman’s Statement
As the newly appointed Chairman of Volution Group plc it is a 
privilege to introduce this, our first Annual Report and Accounts 
following our successful premium listing on the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange in June 2014. This has been the result 
of a sound strategy of organic growth combined with selective, 
value‑ adding acquisitions which has supported the achievement 
of a strong growth in revenues and profitability over a number of 
years. As we begin our journey as a listed company, I am confident 
about the prospects for the business.
As a newly listed company, our vision remains the same. We intend 
to maximise our core strengths and track record to outperform our 
underlying construction markets and to further gain market share in 
each of our core geographical markets. We have identified a number 
of key strategic initiatives and these are set out on pages 20 to 21.
Results
We are reporting a very positive set of results for the financial 
year ended 31 July 2014. The successful listing in June enabled 
repayment of £61.9 million of bank debt and conversion of 
£91.7 million of investor debt to share capital and premium, 
strengthening our balance sheet, which will allow us to invest 
organically and in strategic acquisitions, strengthening our 
offering and geographical footprint. Group revenue in the year 
was £120.7 million, an 18% increase compared with the prior 
year. Our underlying result, as measured by adjusted EBITDA, 
was £28.5 million, 23.6% of revenue and a £4.7 million 
improvement compared to the prior year.
The recent acquisition of inVENTer in Germany, in April 2014, 
is being integrated into the wider Group and is progressing, 
in line with the anticipated timetable. 
A recent continuing decline in sales to certain larger customers 
of inVENTer is a point of focus for us. 
Summary
 > Successful premium listing on the main 
market of the London Stock Exchange
 > Very positive set of results for the 
financial year ended 31 July 2014 
 > Intention is to maximise our core 
strengths and continue to outperform 
in our underlying construction markets
 > Commitment and the substantial effort 
of all our employees has contributed to 
the Group’s performance
 > Performance in 2014 has given 
us a solid platform to build upon
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2014 03
Organic growth* for the Group was helped by an increase in 
new build residential systems sales in the UK, where the Group 
enjoyed an 11.2% growth. The Group is also benefiting from 
strong demand for our products, especially the newer, higher 
value ventilation systems.
The revenue for OEM (Torin‑ Sifan) declined by 2.9% as a 
consequence of lower sales of boiler spares due to a mild winter.
Dividend
The Board intends that the Company will pay an interim dividend 
and a final dividend to be announced at the time of our interim 
and preliminary results. It is expected that our first dividend will 
be an interim dividend payable following publication of our financial 
results for the six months ending 31 January 2015. 
Our initial dividend policy is to target a dividend of approximately 
30% of the Group’s adjusted net income for each financial year.
People
Volution has a skilled workforce as well as experienced and 
integrated senior and regional management teams with proven 
credentials in the industry. The Group has built strong cohesive 
teams across our businesses with the focus on training and effective 
people development and retention to improve our capability and 
performance. I would like to recognise the commitment and the 
substantial effort of all our employees and thank them for their 
contribution to the Group’s performance. It is their continued 
dedication and commitment to the business which is integral 
to our success, together with a clear strategic plan.
We have implemented a new remuneration policy in line with that 
of a listed company, to ensure that the interests of the Executive 
Directors and Senior Management Team are aligned to those of 
our shareholders, with a significant portion of their remuneration 
being tied to performance targets. Further details of the new 
remuneration policy are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 50 to 62.
Health, safety and environment
The Group is committed to continuous improvement in health, 
safety and environmental matters, and our performance continues 
to be of a high industry standard. We remain diligent in monitoring 
and improving our processes and results.
Governance
The Group aims to comply with the high standards of corporate 
governance required of a company with a premium listing on the 
London Stock Exchange. We begin this new chapter as a public 
company with, what I believe to be, a very strong and experienced 
Board that brings together new appointees as well as Directors 
with historical knowledge of the companies within the Group 
and within our industries.
The new Board consists of our Chief Executive Officer, 
Ronnie George, who has a significant shareholding in the 
business and has been building the Group in recent years, 
and our Chief Financial Officer, Ian Dew, who has over 25 years’ 
experience in the building products industry. In addition to me, 
there are two newly appointed independent Non‑ Executive Directors, 
Tony Reading as our Senior Independent Director and chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and Paul Hollingworth, chair of the 
Audit Committee. Adrian Barden as an independent Non‑ Executive 
Director was already acting in such capacity prior to listing. Each 
director has been chosen to bring a range of public company, 
commercial and industry skills required to drive the business 
forward. Gavin Chittick represents our principal shareholder 
(Windmill Holdings B.V., who own 61.4% of the issued share 
capital), as a Non‑ Executive Director on the Board.
Outlook
Looking ahead, our performance in 2014 has given us a solid 
platform to build upon. We have a strong product offering with 
a number of trusted, well established brands. With a clear 
strategy and our depth of management experience, we remain 
confident that the business is well positioned for future growth, 
and we expect to make continued progress in 2015.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
23 October 2014
As the newly appointed Chairman 
of Volution Group plc, it is a privilege 
to introduce this, our first Annual 
Report and Accounts following our 
successful premium listing on the 
main market of the London Stock 
Exchange in June 2014.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
*  Organic growth is a like‑ for‑ like measure of business performance (also calculated 
at constant currency to eliminate translation effects on consolidation). It includes 
the growth of recent acquisitions over the like‑ for‑ like performance of the 
acquired business in the corresponding period, irrespective of ownership, 
expressed as a percentage of prior year reported revenue.
