 Volga Gas plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 
 
 
2 
 
Volga at a Glance
 
Our assets are located in an established oil and gas province. The area benefits 
from the existing rail, road and pipeline infrastructure and proximity to Russia’s 
main energy markets. 
Continued steady production from the Uzenskoye oil field and the acquisition of the Dobrinskoye 
gas/condensate field enabled the Group to achieve significant increases in production, revenues and 
EBITDA in 2011.  With the expected completion of the Vostochny Makarovskoye project and further 
potential developments, the Group aims to deliver significant further growth in production in the 
short and medium term.  
 
 
 
Licence Overview 
 
2011 Progress 
 
2012 Objectives 
 
Dobrinskoye  
 
Acquisition of Gazneftedobycha in April 2011 
provided a new production stream to Volga Gas 
as well as ownership of the gas plant that will 
process gas from Vostochny Makarovskoye. 
 
Drill and complete a sidetrack to well #22 on the 
Dobrinskoye field and achieve significant increases in 
production. 
 
Vostochny 
Makarovskoye  
 
 
First two development wells successfully placed 
on extended test production. 
Completed tie-back of the field to the 
Dobrinskoye gas plant. 
Relocated sulphur treatment unit to the 
Dobrinskoye gas plant. 
Complete the upgrade to the gas plant to enable full 
time production from Vostochny Makarovskoye. 
Workover of well #30 to provide an additional production 
well on the field. 
Commence full time production of gas and condensate. 
Karpenksiy ( Supra-
Salt)  
 
Third year of production, averaging 1,178 
barrels of oil per day (“bopd”) (2010: 1,115 
bopd). 
 
Maintain/enhance production profile and maximise 
extraction of oil from existing wells. 
 
Pre-Caspian Licence 
Area 
 
Selection of a suitable exploration target, 
Mirnaya #2 to meet exploration drilling 
commitment. 
Complete drilling of the Mirnaya #2 well and commence 
drilling of one further contingent well. 
 
Urozhainoye-2 Licence 
Area 
 
Drilled Yuzhny Romanovskaya #1 exploration 
well to a secondary target at a depth of 2,885 
metres. 
Complete drilling to the primary target at a depth of 
4,100 metres. 
 
 
