 Aleksey Kalinin
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
2014 was a significant year for Volga Gas, in 
which the Group achieved its first full year of 
gas and condensate production with its wells 
producing up to their current capacity. The 
average production rate for 2014 was 4,244 
barrels of oil equivalent per day (“boepd”), a 
43% increase over the average 2,965 boepd 
achieved in 2013. With strong cash 
generation arising from this production, it 
was gratifying to see the financial position 
strengthen sufficiently for the Company to 
make its first interim dividend payment and 
still report a significant increase in net cash 
during the year.
The Group now faces a number of challenges, 
not the least of which is the general 
economic situation in Russia, where the 
dramatic fall in international oil prices is likely 
to have a significant impact on the domestic 
economy at least in the short term. While the 
weakness of the Russian Ruble, largely 
matching the drop in the oil price, is likely to 
enable the Group’s profitability to be 
maintained, our profits for future periods as 
reported in US Dollars may be significantly 
lower than in recent years. The declining 
Ruble has also led to a significant shrinking of 
the Group balance sheet as assets have been 
adjusted to the exchange rate prevailing on 
31 December 2014.
Since the year end production based taxes 
have increased significantly – especially as 
applied to condensate, which hitherto had 
been taxed at a rate comparable to gas, but is 
now taxed closer to the level applied to oil. 
While there is nothing that can be done by 
the Group to change the tax rates, 
management is considering ways to optimise 
the business. A key project that is currently 
under consideration is the installation of 
additional units at the Dobrinskoye gas plant 
to extract liquid petroleum gases (“LPG”). 
Initial studies suggest that this could be a 
rewarding investment for the Group and a 
significant enhancement to the value of the 
reserves. More details on this can be found in 
the Chief Executive’s report on page 6 and in 
the Operational Review on page 8.
Most importantly, Volga Gas benefits from 
low operating costs and, with its fields based 
close to market, is able to operate profitably 
even with significantly reduced oil and gas 
prices. The strong balance sheet, with no 
debt and a liquidity position of US$15.8 
million built up from retained cash flow, 
provides a solid foundation for the Group to 
continue the development of its fields and to 
maximise its production profile.
The Group holds significant proven reserves 
in its three principal fields. These fields form 
the basis of sustainable and growing 
production in the near term. Our fields are 
advantageously located and our costs are 
sufficiently low for us to achieve positive 
returns at current oil and gas prices. Most 
importantly, these assets provide a strong 
platform for the Group to grow in the future, 
both through successful exploration and by 
selective value accretive acquisitions.
The Board believes that Volga Gas has a 
strong asset base and the financial and 
operational capability to develop and extend 
these assets to provide long-term value 
growth for our shareholders.
In the light of the current financial conditions 
prevailing in Russia and given the Group’s 
requirement to fund the proposed LPG 
project, which as outlined by the Chief 
Executive on pages 6 and 7 is expected to 
enhance the profitability of the Group’s gas 
and condensate production, the Board has 
decided that it is in the best interests of the 
shareholders for a final dividend to be at a 
level which can be sustained and grown as 
the profits increase in the future. Accordingly, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend 
of US$0.0125 per ordinary share bringing the 
total dividend for the year to US$0.05 per 
ordinary share.
You will be aware that in June 2014 the Board 
was exploring strategic options for the 
business, including seeking potential offerors 
for the Company by means of a “formal sale 
process” under which the Board of Volga Gas 
is able to have discussions with third parties 
interested in such a transaction on a 
confidential basis. Whilst there was some 
interest received, the subsequent 
developments in the external conditions led 
the Board to conclude that an acceptable 
proposal would not be received. The formal 
sale process was accordingly concluded in 
January 2015. The Board continues to seek to 
maximise the value of the Company for 
shareholders.
Aleksey Kalinin
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
04 VOLGA GAS PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
