 Volga Gas plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 
 
 
4 
 
Chief Executive's Report 
 
A significant event in 2011 was the acquisition of Gazneftedobycha (“GND”) which brought into the Group’s ownership the 
Dobrinskoye gas processing plant and the Dobrinskoye gas/condensate field.  This enabled us to proceed towards full time 
production from the Vostochny Makarovskoye (“VM”) field, which will utilize the Dobrinskoye gas plant to process its output. 
With effect of 1 April 2011, the Group acquired the equity of GND for a consideration of approximately US$1.1 million. At the time 
of the acquisition, GND had loans outstanding due to Trans Nafta amounting to approximately US$24.4 million.  By 31 December 
2011, the debt outstanding had been reduced to approximately US$4.2 million. 
On completion of the acquisition of GND in April 2011, the Group benefitted from an immediate increase of 9.3 million barrels of oil 
equivalent (“mmboe”) in C1/C2 Reserves and a new and profitable stream of production to complement the steady production from 
the Uzenskoye oil field.  This higher level of production, together with sustained healthy sales prices for oil, gas and condensate, 
enabled the Group to report a 118% increase in sales and a 256% increase in EBITDA. 
As detailed in the Operational Review below, the majority of the work done on our existing asset base was focused on 
management of our two producing fields with the aims of maintaining effective and efficient long term production and of 
maximizing the ultimate recovery of reserves.  In 2011, exploration activity was limited to the drilling of a committed exploration 
well on the Urozhainoye-2 licence area.   
Our key strategic objective now is to bring the VM field into full time production.  Much of the development work was accomplished 
before 2011.  We completed two production wells and installed intra-field pipelines in 2009, and during the second half of 2010 
and the majority of 2011, we successfully conducted extended production tests on these two wells.  
Following the GND acquisition, we completed the physical connection between the VM field and the gas plant, relocated a partly-
built H 2S processing unit from the VM field site to the gas plant site, and conducted a series of tests to establish the optimum plan 
for the necessary modifications to enable the gas plant to process the gas and condensate from VM.  In December 2011, the plans 
for the plant upgrades were finalized and the principal procurement and construction contracts issued.  Our aim is to complete the 
modifications and to commence full time production as soon as possible, expected in Q3 2012. 
While the immediate strategic objective is to bring our existing assets into production, we have also been active in seeking growth 
opportunities by acquisition.  We remain active in our search for complementary assets to expand our business. 
Finance 
To date, the Group’s investments in exploration and capital expenditure have been funded from equity and cash generated from 
operational activities.  Now that the Group’s assets have established a track record of reliable cash generation, the Board has 
decided that it is an appropriate time to bring bank debt into the capital structure of the Group.  On 26 March 2012 the Group 
arranged its first debt facility, with ZAO Raiffeisen Bank, for a sum of US$10 million, which will be utilized to fund capital 
expenditures and for general corporate purposes in our Russian operating companies. 
Current trading 
Since the beginning of 2012, production capacity from the Dobrinskoye and Uzenskoye fields has been steady at approximately 
2,500 boepd.  During January and February 2012, the domestic oil market in Russia has been constrained, with several refineries 
undertaking early maintenance shut-downs, which has reduced demand and has required the Group to produce below the full 
capacity of our wells.  Since the beginning of March 2012, we have seen more normal conditions return to the market, which has 
allowed us gradually to bring production from our fields closer to their technical capacities.   With oil, gas and condensate sale 
prices remaining firm since the start of the year and costs remaining relatively low, Volga Gas continues to enjoy positive net 
operating cash flow. 
Outlook 
Key activities for 2012 will be the ongoing management and development of existing production across the portfolio.  The Group’s 
priority is to bring the VM field into production as soon as possible.  On the VM field, an additional well, #30, is to be worked over 
and re-completed with the aim of increasing production capacity. Exploration drilling activity in 2012 includes completion of an 
exploration well on the Urozhainoy-2 Licence Area, and a shallow exploration well in the Pre-Caspian licence area.  The total capital 
expenditure budgeted for 2012 is US$16.0 million, covering exploration and development drilling and the upgrade to the 
Dobrinskoye gas plant.  This will be funded from a combination of cash flow, existing cash resources and the new bank facility. 
Certain fiscal changes have been brought into effect in Russia.  These include provisions that reduce the tax burden on crude oil 
exports and a new basis of charges of Mineral Extraction Tax (“MET”) on condensate.  The oil export tax changes may lead to 
relative increases in crude oil prices in the domestic market, in which we sell our oil and condensate.  In addition, the new rate of 
MET on condensate is significantly lower than the 17.5% charge on sales hitherto charged.  Management believes these changes 
will be of material benefit to the Group in 2012. 
We look forward to delivering a successful new stream of production and to pursuing the other growth opportunities that we see 
for the business. 
 
Mikhail Ivanov 
Chief Executive Officer 
