 Annual Report and Accounts 2010_ 03
Business Overview Corporate Governance Financial Statements
During 2010, Volga Gas benefited from the successful 
development of the Yuzhny Uzenskoye field which has 
provided and continues to provide valuable and profitable 
oil production, enabling the Group to report increased 
revenues and gross profits. We also made good advances 
on the development of the Vostochny Makarovskoye (“VM”) 
gas-condensate field, with a successful extended production 
test on the two initial wells. In the course of the year, we also 
identified a new material and relatively low cost exploration 
target within the Karpenskiy Licence Area which could 
materially add to the Group’s oil and gas reserves.
The major event of 2010 was, however, the testing of the 
Grafovskaya #1 sub-salt exploration well. As I explain in the 
Operational Report below, this was, regrettably, unsuccessful. 
Our disappointment is partly offset by the fact that the operations 
were conducted without incident and within budgeted cost and 
provided useful geological data which we can use across our other 
sub-salt licence areas. Nevertheless, this well was the culmination 
of significant investment over the past three years and, based 
on the results of the well, we feel it is prudent to recognise 
substantially all of this investment as impaired. As detailed in the 
Financial Report below, this has led to an exploration expense 
of US$23.9 million in the 2010 Income Statement.
Following this result, we have decided for the time being to focus 
the Group’s efforts and investment on the development of our 
proven reserves and on exploration activity in shallow horizons 
where we have already had some success.
One of our key objectives now is to bring the VM field into 
production. Much of the development work has been 
accomplished. We completed two production wells and 
installed intra-field pipelines in 2009, and during the second  
half of 2010 we successfully conducted extended production 
tests on these two wells.
Following the conclusion of the legal processes and subject  
to the settlement under negotiation as mentioned above in the 
Chairman’s Statement, we anticipate being able to move in a 
timely manner towards first production from the VM field. In 2007 
and early 2008 construction was commenced of a suitably scaled 
processing facility for the VM field but was put on hold in 
November 2008. Certain parts (including an H
2
S processing unit) 
of this facility will need to be relocated to the Dobrinskoye gas 
processing unit (“GPU”) site and further upgrades undertaken to 
the GPU to enable production to commence from the VM field. 
Our aim is to achieve this before the end of 2011.
Current trading
Since the beginning of 2011, oil production from the Uzenskoye 
field has been steady at approximately 1,300 bopd. We have so 
far not experienced any significant weather-related disruptions 
which impacted our oil production early in 2010. With oil sale 
prices having increased further since the start of the year and 
costs remaining relatively low, Volga Gas continues to enjoy 
positive net operating cash flow.
Outlook
Key activities for 2011 will include ongoing management and 
development of existing production. The Group’s priority is to 
bring the VM field into production as soon as possible after the 
commercial and legal matters with Trans Nafta have been resolved. 
Drilling activity in 2011 comprises an exploration well on the 
Urozhainoy-2 Licence Area, and a development well on the 
Uzenskoye oil field. The budgeted cost of these two wells is 
US$5.5 million.
Certain fiscal changes have been included in draft legislation  
in Russia. These include proposals that would substantially 
reduce the tax burden on small oil fields. Based on current draft 
legislation, we anticipate the Uzenskoye field may benefit from 
these anticipated changes.
We look forward to delivering a successful new stream of 
production and to pursuing the other growth opportunities  
that we see for the business.
Mikhail Ivanov
Chief Executive Officer
We look forward to delivering a successful 
new stream of production and to pursuing 
the other growth opportunities that we see 
for the business.
Chief Executive’s Report
