 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 4
Chief Executive’s 
report
Paul Lester
Over the past five 
years, turnover 
from continuing 
operations has 
increased by more 
than 140% and we 
have consistently 
achieved double-
digit growth in 
underlying profits 
throughout 
that period.
VT Group manages assets and provides 
services that our customers consider critical 
to their own activities. Our 12,000 people 
deliver these services world-wide, primarily 
for governments and their agencies, with the 
majority of the business being located in the 
United Kingdom and the United States.
Over the past five years, turnover from 
continuing operations has increased by more 
than 140 per cent and we have consistently 
achieved double-digit growth in underlying 
profits throughout that period.
VT operates in a wide range of markets 
including defence, education, secure 
communications, waste and nuclear services. 
Our capabilities include:
 Facilities management and base operations
 Equipment support
 Education and training
 Design, procure and build
The common thread running through our 
business is our ability to work in partnership 
with our customers and our supply chain 
in order to ensure we meet our customers’ 
needs and exceed their expectations.
Current year
The progress in our services businesses was 
highlighted during the year by the start of work 
on two of our biggest long-term contracts, the 
multi-billion pound Future Strategic Tanker 
Aircraft (FSTA) and UK Military Flying Training 
System (UKMFTS) programmes. 
For FSTA, VT is overseeing the construction 
of new facilities at RAF Brize Norton where we 
will be providing long-term support, including 
IT. Under UKMFTS, we have started work on 
building new facilities at RAF Valley, as well as 
delivering IT services to the programme. 
VT Education & Skills is now the largest 
education and training business in the UK. 
It has established itself as a leading provider 
of automotive training and has completed 
its first school in the London Borough of 
Lewisham under the Building Schools for 
the Future programme. 
VT’s reputation with its customers is a 
fundamental strength of our business and 
it was highly satisfying to have achieved 
the Lead Supplier position in the MoD DSR 
assessment for the second successive year, 
recording an even better performance than  
the previous year.
We have substantially agreed commercial 
terms with Wakefield Metropolitan District 
Council for the design, build and operation of 
waste facilities in Wakefield. We anticipate the 
contract will start in the first half of our next 
financial year subject to financing.
Performance in BVT for the year has been 
disappointing, with under performance on 
export contracts. These export contracts are 
expected to give rise to losses estimated at 
£54m of which our share is £24m.  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 5
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
By the end of the summer, we expect to 
submit our best and final offer for the Search 
and Rescue (Helicopter) programme (SAR-H) 
in which we are teamed with Lockheed Martin 
UK and British International Helicopters (BIH). 
A preferred bidder announcement is expected 
to be made late in the calendar year.
We have also started bidding for the Joint 
Military Air Traffic System (JMATS), a major 
project to replace military air traffic infrastructure 
and provide long-term support. The contract, 
worth around £1bn over 25 years, is due to 
be awarded in 2013.
Although the MoD has withdrawn plans for its 
Whole Fleet Management (WFM) programme to 
outsource support for up to 100,000 vehicles, 
we believe that there is still interest in using 
the private sector for this work. This is likely to 
involve dividing the fleet into smaller groups and 
we are discussing with the MoD how we can 
bring extra value to parts of the requirement.
Strategy
Strategic priorities
Our strategic priorities are to:
  Develop our position in the UK defence 
market through winning new contracts
  Strengthen our position in the US defence 
market by further developing our capabilities 
and revenues to consolidate our position as 
a key supplier
  Build on existing customer relationships  
to generate new business
  Develop our relationships and 
product offerings in local and central 
government markets
  Grow in the strategically significant nuclear 
and waste-to-energy markets
We will work toward these priorities by 
maintaining our core values:
  Passionate about people: demonstrating 
commitment to people, enabling individuals 
to meet their full potential to share in 
VT’s success
  Performance driven: striving for excellence 
and outstanding results through a ‘can do’ 
approach with innovation and integrity
  Partnering with customers and suppliers: 
developing and maintaining positive 
relationships and working together to 
achieve common goals
We plan to grow our business through a mixture 
of organic growth, acquisition and progress in 
new markets. This growth will be supported by 
our reorganisation as detailed below.
New Group structure
Our proposed exit from the shipbuilding and 
naval support joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet, 
will enable us to become a business focused 
entirely on services. As provided in the terms of 
the put option within the joint-venture agreement 
signed in June 2008, we intend to initiate an exit 
from the joint venture this summer.
The transition to a pure services business 
represents a major change in VT’s long history 
and provides us with an exciting opportunity to 
take the Group forward. However we retain our 
engineering focus, born from our shipbuilding 
heritage and now an integral part of the 
services we deliver across all our markets.
Our engineering-based capabilities, combined 
with our approach to partnering provide us 
with a value proposition that sets us apart 
from most companies in the services sector. 
This proposition also defines the type of 
services we provide; the management of 
assets and infrastructure that our customers 
consider to be critical to their own activities.
To reflect the evolution of the company and 
to support our value proposition, we have 
reviewed and updated our vision:
“We will set the standards for the delivery of 
customer critical services”
Our strategic direction has been reinforced 
by our reorganisation into three business 
segments – Defence; Government and Critical 
Services; and our US defence business, 
VT Group Inc – closely aligning our offering 
with the customers we serve. 
The new structure enables a more efficient 
use of overheads. We have therefore initiated 
a programme of reducing employee levels by 
a further 290 people (including 40 in the US) in 
addition to the 100 people who have recently 
left the business as part of prior integration 
programmes. Total savings will be £15m per 
annum with £8m being used to offset the 
overhead recovery lost by the exit from BVT 
Surface Fleet. The net saving will be seen in 
the financial year 2011 and beyond. We are 
positioning the Group to be more competitive 
for future bids and to be more resilient if the 
current recession deepens.
The transition to 
a pure services 
business 
represents a 
major change in 
VT’s long history 
and provides us 
with an exciting 
opportunity to take 
the Group forward. Government and
Critical Services
VT Group Inc Defence
• ALC (MoD C Vehicles)
• Light Aircraft 
 Flying Task − RAF
• Tucano Total Support
 Programme − RAF
• Sea King Integrated
 Operational Support
• Whitefleet (MoD
 non-fighting vehicles)
• Bordon & Arborfield
 (Army training)
• Flagship (Naval training)
• Defence High
 Frequency Communications
 Service − MoD
• UKMFTS
• FSTA 
• Training
• Metropolitan Police
• Waste management
• Fire fighting training
• Government agency
• New Dimensions   
 (Emergency services vehicles)
• Nuclear services
• Flagship
 (Engineering training)
• British Airways
• Building Schools
 for the Future (BSF)
• Education
• BBC
• US Army Aviation  and
 Missile Command (AMCOM) 
• Fort Sill
• NASA
• Camp Lejeune
• Fort Huachuca
• Kings Bay
• Space and Naval
 Warfare Centre (SPAWAR) 
• Alaska (US Coastguard)
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 6
Chief Executive’s 
report continued
At 31 March 2009 
we had already 
secured significant 
order book 
coverage for  
2010 and 2011.
The new operating model will allow for greater 
sharing of talent, expertise and knowledge 
across the Group. It will also bring operational 
efficiency benefits from a ‘One VT’ approach as 
we implement shared services for our finance 
and human resources back office functions. 
Defence will be responsible for managing and 
strengthening our relationship with the UK MoD. 
It is important that we retain defence contracts 
which are due to be re-bid over the next few 
years. There is also good potential to secure 
new defence contracts in line with our value 
proposition both in the UK and in other defence 
markets, where we can export our business 
model and achieve benefits for the customer.
Government and Critical Services will manage 
and develop our non-defence government 
relationships, in which we have established 
customers, a strong track record and existing 
contracts that we can develop further. We see 
this as a major potential area for growth. 
Principal areas of development will be 
education, environmental services, police 
and fire services, where we will build on 
our experience.
In the US, VT Group Inc will concentrate on 
growing our work with the US Department of 
Defense (DoD). There are a number of new 
bid and re-bid opportunities approaching in 
the US and we will be employing considerable 
resource to ensure the successful award of 
these contracts. 
VT Group Inc is well placed to address the 
increasing pressures on the US defence 
budget, as our focus is on the upgrade of 
existing platforms, particularly in the army and 
naval areas, in a cost-effective and efficient 
manner. In future there is likely to be more 
pressure to re-use and upgrade existing 
equipment rather than replace with new. 
We continue to seek opportunities to develop 
our capabilities in more technical markets 
offering potential for greater rewards.
We anticipate that the pressures of the current 
economic situation will have an impact on 
customer budgets. Our response will be to 
develop more integrated service offerings 
that generate greater value for money through 
innovation and efficiency in service delivery. 
We will continue to concentrate on supplying 
services that are critical to the success of our 
customers’ operations.
The future growth of VT Group will be based 
on providing a wider range of services 
to our existing customers with selective 
growth in other closely related domestic 
and international markets.
The Group’s principal contracts and 
operations and how they fit into the new 
Group structure is set out below:  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 7
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
The restructuring 
of VT Group 
provides a solid 
platform for 
continued growth 
in shareholder 
value.
Organic growth
Growing our business by renewing, or 
expanding, our work with existing customers 
and within existing markets is essential to 
growing shareholder value. The combination of 
our long-term contracts and recurring orders 
provides a high degree of visibility of our future 
revenue. At 31 March 2009, we had already 
secured significant order book coverage for the 
years ending 31 March 2010 and 2011. There is 
considerable scope to grow in our markets 
and also in the markets that we have entered 
recently, particularly waste and nuclear.
Restrictions on defence budgets, particularly 
in the UK, are set to continue. However, with 
VT’s focus on increasing efficiency, we are 
confident that the Group will fare relatively well. 
We have also identified opportunities where we 
can add value by using our existing customer 
relationships and performance to expand our 
activities into adjacent sectors. 
Our other business sectors, including 
education, waste and nuclear, offer further 
growth opportunities, with both central and 
local government in particular offering large 
potential. In the US, we also expect budgets 
to flatten but we believe that our skills will 
become increasingly valuable for the DoD, 
faced as it is with pressure to maintain existing 
platforms and reduce support costs.
Acquisitions
The current economic environment may well 
present opportunities for acquisition-led growth. 
Our ability to exploit these opportunities will 
be enhanced by the expected proceeds from 
the exit from BVT Surface Fleet. VT expects 
to have net cash at a time when the corporate 
debt levels of other companies are likely to 
generate disposals. We will maintain a prudent 
acquisition approach, concentrating on adding 
support services businesses in our primary UK 
and US markets that represent a good strategic 
fit, complement our core competencies, are 
attractively priced in relation to our financial 
criteria and can be integrated effectively into 
VT’s services businesses.
Progress in new markets
Both the nuclear and waste-to-energy 
markets offer considerable potential for us 
to apply our value proposition, providing 
critical engineering-based support services 
to government agencies.
VT has addressed the increasing opportunities 
in these markets by forming nuclear services 
and waste-to-energy businesses.
The UK Government’s commitment to nuclear 
power generation, with eleven new nuclear 
power stations to be built by 2020, presents 
VT with an opportunity to expand its capability 
in nuclear decommissioning and to develop 
further services for the nuclear industry. 
Plans for each new power station will include 
provision for decommissioning at the end of 
its life, giving VT the opportunity to become 
involved in the programme at an early stage.
Whilst we still expect the nuclear market to 
remain flat in the short term, we continue 
to position the business to benefit from the 
anticipated market growth in the medium to 
long term as the need for decommissioning 
increases and the nuclear new build 
programme is implemented.
The increasing costs of landfill have already 
prompted many local authorities to look at 
alternative ways of dealing with their waste. 
EU regulations require local authorities, by 2013, 
to divest 50 per cent of the volume of waste sent 
to landfill in 1995 to other, non-landfill solutions. 
Having been named preferred bidder to 
build, operate and maintain a waste plant 
in Wakefield, Yorkshire, the Group has 
progressed bids with other local authorities. 
Steam autoclave technology also offers the 
opportunity to produce renewable energy  
from waste, further enhancing the business 
case for these plants. 
Going forward
The restructuring of VT Group and its 
potential for further growth, both organic and 
acquisitive, provides a solid platform for the 
Group to continue to build shareholder value.
Paul Lester
