 02
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2005/06 WAS ANOTHER RECORD YEAR FOR VT
GROUP WITH TURNOVER INCLUDING JOINT
VENTURES INCREASING BY 15% TO £847M 
(2005: £734M). PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM
CONTINUING OPERATIONS IMPROVED BY 33% 
TO £55.5M (2005: £41.6M) WITH THE
CORRESPONDING EARNINGS PER SHARE 
ALSO IMPROVING BY 33% TO 24P (2005: 18P).
MICHAEL JEFFRIES CHAIRMAN
The board recommends a final dividend of 7.75 pence
per share giving a total dividend for the year of 10.75
pence per share, an increase of 10.3% over last year.
The strong performance and progress reported by the
group indicates the underlying strength of the company
and the commitment of our employees. 
Since taking over as chairman in July 2005, I have visited
many parts of the group and met a number of able and
impressive individuals. There is a clear understanding of
the direction in which VT is headed and an awareness 
of the focus and effort needed to realise our growth
objectives. As the group continues to grow and embrace
new challenges, it is important this focus is maintained.
The group has grown significantly over the last three
years. We are now bidding for and winning increasingly
large and more diverse contracts. Internal skills are
developing as expertise from across the group is required
to deliver effective services to our customers. This makes
for more streamlined working methods and common
objectives, both of which are fundamental to our
continued success. 
Our support services business has expanded significantly.
Revenues in our Education and Skills and Communication
businesses have grown to approaching £100m each and
in our US business to over $350m. Our customers now
include British Airways, the Metropolitan Police and
several regional Fire Authorities. 
Our support services business has performed well,
growing both organically and through acquisition. 
We completed two acquisitions in the year in the
Education and Skills division, underlining our strategy to
grow this business. Since the year end we have been
selected to progress the Greenwich Building Schools 
for the Future programme. This is a major step for VT 
and offers us potential for further wins.
Also after the year end we completed the acquisition of
four vehicle support services businesses from RAC plc
(part of Aviva plc) for a total cash consideration of £87m.
Together, the businesses had a turnover of £140m for 
the year ended 31 December 2005. Profit before interest
and tax was £10.3m with a total order book in excess of
£1.25 billion. These businesses provide a strong strategic
fit with our existing portfolio. 
Our shipbuilding business performed strongly and good
progress has been made on all key projects, including 
the Type 45 Destroyer, Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV)
(Helicopter) and the Super Vita Fast Attack Craft for 
the Royal Hellenic Navy.
VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51  13/6/06  14:17  Page 02 03
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
Sales
£m
847
734
06
05
Profit before 
tax– continuing
£m
55.5
41.6
06
05
KEY FIGURES
Chris Cundy has been appointed as Commercial Director
with responsibility for steering the company through an
intense negotiating period with a number of strategic
customers. We thank Chris for his dedication and skill
during his eight years as Finance Director. 
We have also strengthened the management teams in two
of our key businesses. Ken Smith has been appointed as
Chief Executive Officer of our US business and Simon
Withey, previously Group Business Development Director,
was appointed as Managing Director of VT Education
and Skills.
We have ambitious plans within VT Group and these
appointments reflect our commitment to those plans. 
A strong management team is crucial to the future
success of the group and we are confident that these
appointments, together with the existing management,
will achieve this.
I am delighted to be the Chairman of a group that has
such dedicated people and clear vision for the future. 
With these two key strengths, plus the recent achievements
in key areas of the business and the prospects outlined
within this report, there is every reason to remain confident
and optimistic about VT’s continuing success.
In April we were pleased to announce that VT has been
named preferred bidder for the supply of three OPVs 
to the Royal Navy of Oman. This extends the long and
successful relationship that we have had with Oman 
over the past 25 years. This additional work, together
with our work on the Type 45 Destroyer and the future
aircraft carriers (CVF) will ensure that our shipbuilding
division will be operating at a high level of activity for
several years to come.
During the year VT was confirmed as a full member 
of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance (ACA). We welcome 
the opportunity to work with the other members in
progressing the build of CVF for the Royal Navy. 
Peter McIntosh, former Managing Director VT Shipbuilding,
was seconded to the Alliance Management Team as
Chief Executive for this project. Geoff Smith has been
appointed as Managing Director VT Shipbuilding during
Peter’s secondment. Having spent more than 30 years
with the Dowty Group, where he was latterly Chief
Executive, Geoff’s background and experience is 
ideally suited to supporting our shipbuilding business
during this period. 
Chris Rickard’s appointment as Finance Director was
announced during the year. He joins the board on 1 July
2006. During the last five years Chris has been Finance
Director for Meggitt plc and most recently The Weir Group. 
VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51  13/6/06  14:17  Page 03
