 Chief executive’s review
Having completed my ﬁrst nine months as 
Chief Executive, I am very pleased to report 
a strong performance from the company.
Obviously much of the performance must 
be attributed to Martin Jay as a result of his
stewardship of VT Group until July 2002. 
The business is in good shape and I 
believe can continue to produce double
digit growth in proﬁt before tax this year and
in the foreseeable future.
There is always room to improve and we
have identiﬁed a number of key performance
improvement targets to help us achieve this:
Cash
As can be seen from the results, operating
cash generation pre exceptional items at
£57m has been particularly strong. We 
have embarked on an investment in the 
new Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility (£50m)
together with a number of PFI and Public
Private Partnership (PPP) projects (£80m).
These projects will deliver substantial long
term beneﬁts but we need to generate cash
and borrow funds now to create the project
vehicles. During 2003/04 a continued focus
on cash management will help provide the
working capital that is needed to fund our
growth.
Procurement 
We have typically spent £350m annually
with 22,000 suppliers. During 2002/03 
we have already reduced this number to
8,000 and hence improved our purchasing
power considerably. We are in the process
of establishing around 1,000 preferred
suppliers who will provide over 60% of our
requirements. Close relationships with these
suppliers will result in reduced product and
service purchase costs as well as
administration costs. We have set an
internal goal of saving £10m in total over the
next three years by improving our supply
chain management.
Information Technology (IT)
IT is the “glue” that keeps our business
performing. We currently spend around
£7.5m per annum, which is typical for a
business of our size. However, as a result 
of a number of acquisitions we now have a
diversity of hardware and software. We have
04 VT Group Annual Report 2003
Paul Lester Chief Executive
1423 VT front art  03/06  9/6/03  2:19 pm  Page 6 appointed a chief information ofﬁcer who
has already identiﬁed a number of areas for
improvement. It is unlikely that we will
reduce our level of expenditure, but will
focus on improving the delivery of our
products and services to our customers.
We also have the basis of a knowledge
management system which will enable best
practice to be shared through the group.
This is particularly important for our Support
services business which relies on applying
well proven processes on new contracts to
deliver customer performance requirements
and acceptable returns.
People
VT is a people business. Including our share
of the joint ventures we employ in excess of
10,000 and our customers rely on the
performance of our people to deliver
products and services to meet their
demanding needs. We have introduced a
programme to establish a performance
culture and increase individual contributions.
We must continue to initiate and lead major
change programmes to deliver business
case beneﬁts. The motivation of our
employees is critical to our success.
Customers and Partners
During the past twelve months we have
worked hard at developing improved
relationships with our customers and
partners. In particular, we have held a
number of senior management workshops
with BAE Systems on a variety of subjects.
This has resulted in establishing a way
forward on both some speciﬁc projects as
well as a general understanding of the
export warship market. We have also
developed an excellent working relationship
with BAE Systems on the Type 45 and the
Future Carrier (CVF) programmes. Our
performance history of delivering on time
and to cost continues to hold us in good
stead with the Ministry of Defence (MoD).
Our growing education business puts us 
VT Group Annual Report 2003  05  
in a position as one of the largest private
providers of education services to the
Department for Education and Skills. Also,
in the USA, VT Grifﬁn has continued to 
grow and is now a well established leading
provider of facilities management for the
Department of Defense.
Looking ahead, we have a number of
exciting opportunities. The commencement
of the Type 45 programme gives an
excellent platform for the next four to ﬁve
years for Shipbuilding to build upon. 
During 2003/04 we will intensify our
discussions with BAE Systems/Thales and
MoD regarding our involvement in the
Future Carrier (CVF) programme. If
successful, the CVF programme will provide
VT with a substantial workload both for
design work and manufacturing. Design will
commence during the 2003/04 year with
manufacturing starting around 2006. The
opportunities in the export market for ships
are also encouraging with a number of
countries requiring well equipped Offshore
Patrol Vessels or Fast Attack Craft. The
need to protect individual countries’
economic zones as well as the protection 
of coastlines has created a signiﬁcant
requirement for this type of vessel which VT
has a good track record of providing.
Needless to say, competition will be strong
and in many cases the governments
concerned require manufacturing to take
place at facilities in their own countries. 
As already demonstrated by our contract
with Elefsis in Greece, we are more than
capable of meeting the needs of technology
transfer and constructing ships to our
design offshore.
In Support services, the market in the UK
Defence sector remains good. There are a
number of PFI/PPP opportunities ranging
from airﬁeld services and military ﬂying
training to training the personnel of all three
services. A large PFI/PPP project can take
two to three years from the initial tender up
to contract implementation. We therefore
need to manage our bid costs carefully as
well as being very selective in terms of what
we should bid for. Nevertheless the projects
mentioned are all potentially multi billion
pound contracts and represent a real
opportunity for VT and our partners.
The defence market in the USA is the
largest individual market of its kind in the
world and is estimated to be around ten
times the size of the UK market. We have
therefore budgeted to increase our business
development activity to position ourselves 
to win more work. We have an excellent
base in the USA with VT Grifﬁn and, with
their track record and the skills we possess
elsewhere in the group we should see an
increasing USA order book from 2004
onwards.
The UK education market is potentially
larger than the defence market, but it is 
in its infancy regarding outsourcing to the
private sector. We have established
ourselves as a major provider of services 
to the Department for Education and Skills
and are well placed to continue to grow this
business sector.
There are ample opportunities for VT Group
to continue to grow. We will continuously
seek to improve our performance in order to
maximise the beneﬁts of this growth for our
customers, employees and shareholders.
Proﬁt before tax, goodwill and exceptionals £m
41.5
37.5
35.4 35.5
34.4
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Turnover £m
565
479
379
274
241
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
1423 VT front art  03/06  9/6/03  2:19 pm  Page 7
