 Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to be able to report in this, 
my ﬁrst annual statement as chairman, 
that the business is in good shape and 
has performed in line with our expectations.
This represents a strong performance against
a background of general stock market
volatility, and some economic uncertainty,
and reﬂects the long-term nature of the
businesses we are concentrating on.
Overall turnover has increased by 18 per cent
to £565m (2002: £479m) reﬂecting the full
year impact of recent acquisitions. Proﬁt
before tax and the amortisation of goodwill
and exceptional items was up by just under
11 per cent to £41.5m (2002: £37.5m), 
with earnings per share also increasing by
10 per cent to 16.6p (2002: 15.1p).
This performance has enabled the board to
recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 6.0 pence
giving a total dividend for the year of 8.4
pence per share, an increase of 7.7 per
cent over last year.
Paul Lester has undertaken a thorough
review of the entire business to position the
group as a leading provider of government
services internationally. We are concentrating
on two divisions, Support services and
Shipbuilding. Our Marine products business
has been reorganised and elements brought
within the Shipbuilding division.
A key theme of the year has been the
investments the group has been making to
enable us to achieve our growth targets for
future years. These include the new
Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility and Private
Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts. They follow
the investments we have already made in
12 acquisitions over the past four years. We
have therefore been putting our cash
reserves to good use as well as improving
our cash management.
We reached agreement in March with the
South East England Development Agency
for the sale of our Woolston Shipyard for a
total consideration of £15m, with an
immediate initial payment of £7.5m.
Martin Jay Chairman
02 VT Group Annual Report 2003
1423 VT front art  03/06  9/6/03  2:19 pm  Page 4 This agreement gives rise to an exceptional
proﬁt of £4m. We have decided to use the bulk
of this cash receipt to make a £5m contribution
to the group’s principal pension scheme.
Overall it has been a year of notable
developments.
Our Support services business has continued
to grow strongly, with turnover up by over a
third. The two largest acquisitions to date -
VT Merlin and VT Grifﬁn - have bedded
down well and enjoyed further contract
success. VT Grifﬁn won the largest ever US
base maintenance and operations contract.
VT Merlin was named preferred bidder for
the contract to operate, maintain and
enhance the MoD’s high frequency
communications facilities both in the UK and
overseas. On the civil side VT has continued
to establish itself as a signiﬁcant player in
the growing UK education and skills sector.
In April 2003 our Shipbuilding business
successfully commissioned the new
Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility on time
and within budget, ready for the start of
production for the Type 45 destroyer
programme. The transfer of staff from
Woolston is well underway and due for
completion by the year end. The new state-
of-the art facility will provide the platform to
make major improvements in productivity
and to compete effectively for contracts at
home and abroad. VT is well-placed to
secure a signiﬁcant share of the contract to
design, build and support the two new
aircraft carriers for the Royal Navy.
I should also note that during the recent
action in the Gulf, equipment supplied by VT
performed well. Indeed the VT-built
minehunter HMS Sandown was the ﬁrst
coalition vessel into the Iraqi port of Um-Qasr,
playing a major role in the mine clearance
operation in the Shatt al Arab waterway that
made possible the ﬂow of humanitarian aid.
A year ago we announced our intention to
appoint further non-executive directors 
to the board to ensure that we continue to
beneﬁt from the right mix of skills and
experience in light of the increasing importance
of support services to our overall business.
In September, Andrew Given joined the
board having been successively Group
Finance Director and then Deputy Chief
Executive of the international IT services
group Logica. In January David Thorpe was
appointed to the board, having been most
recently President of Europe for Electronic
Data Systems. They are very welcome
additions to the board.
We also announced a year ago that it was
Lord Wakeham’s intention to retire from the
board following the Annual General Meeting.
I wish to place on record my thanks for the
immense contribution he has made to the
company over seven years as chairman and
in the last year as deputy chairman, and for
the support and wise counsel he has given
over that time. We wish him well in retirement.
On 19 May 2003, David Barclay joined the
board as a non-executive director. David is
Vice Chairman of the investment bank
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and has
been involved as a ﬁnancial advisor to the
group since ﬂotation. He has a wealth of
knowledge and experience of the VT Group
and will bring to our deliberations an
important City perspective.
Under the new board arrangements 
Andrew Given will chair the audit committee
and fulﬁl the role of senior independent
director, while David Thorpe will chair the
remuneration committee.
The company is in good shape and well-
placed to continue the strong growth we
have seen in Support services, to capitalise
on the strategic Shipbuilding asset we now
have at Portsmouth, to maximise the
returns from all the investments we have
made and to exploit the numerous
opportunities to expand our business in
overseas markets. In this way I am
conﬁdent that VT Group plc will continue 
to deliver excellent value to its shareholders. 
VT Group Annual Report 2003  03
Dividends per share pence
8.4
7.8
7.3
6.7
6.2
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Order book £m
2,031
1,551
1,117
0.735
0.698
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
1423 VT front art  03/06  9/6/03  2:19 pm  Page 5
