 Our Vision 
“To be Recognised as the Number One
International Government Services Group”
The ‘Number One’ in our vision relates to the
quality and reputation that we strive for, as well
as the size of organisation we aspire to be in
future years. This builds on our existing
reputation for quality of service, project
management and customer focus.
We already have significant International reach
with operations across the globe within our
communications, shipbuilding, ship support,
aerospace and education and skills
businesses. To be truly international we will
continue to pursue opportunities overseas, 
with a specific focus on Europe and the 
United States.
Government Services embraces all forms of
services to governments, government bodies
and agencies. This does not prohibit VT Group
from addressing commercial markets outside 
of government but only if those markets 
are relevant to the business that we are 
already delivering.
04 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005
The group continues to perform well as we take
further steps to meet our strategic objectives. 
The outlook for both our Support Services and
Shipbuilding businesses is encouraging as the
group moves forward into another promising year. 
Chief executive’s review
Paul Lester Chief Executive
Strategy
Over the past three years we have pursued a
consistent strategy:
• To win a major share of UK defence projects
• To grow our US business to over $500m
per annum
• To grow our Education and Skills business
to over £150m per annum
• To develop alliances with other defence
companies
We have made substantial progress in all 
areas of our strategy in 2004/05. Profits and
earnings have continued to grow in excess 
of 10% per annum. We have been named
preferred bidder (as part of the AirTanker
consortium) on the largest UK PFI project, 
the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft (FSTA) and,
through strong organic growth and acquisitions,
both our US Defense and Education and Skills
businesses have increased in size by 57% and
22% respectively.
We anticipate that the UK Support Services
defence market will start to flatten after the 
next four to five years. With this in mind, VT 
will continue to expand in the US Defense 
and UK Education and Skills sectors.
Shipbuilding has substantial growth
opportunities both in the domestic and
international markets for at least the next ten
years. However, we continue to believe that
alleviating the peaks and troughs which have
traditionally beset the industry would benefit
both the UK Shipbuilding industry and its
customers. VT is taking a leading role in this
process.
Our Vision and Values
As the group has grown and diversified in
recent years, we continue to work on bringing
the various parts of the business together and
ensure we all have a common understanding of
VT Group’s objectives. The vision has been
developed through a number of workshops,
involving management from across the group.
Our vision now clearly outlines our aspirations
and gives both our internal and external
stakeholders an understanding of what we, as
a group, want to be. Underpinning this vision is
our set of core values which define the way we
operate as an organisation.  VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 05
Our Values
Passionate about People
We believe that the quality of our people directly
contributes to business success and we must
demonstrate our commitment to them by
enabling them to release their full potential and
achieve their goals. We will do this by:
• Valuing contribution and teamwork
• Effective communication
• Empowering people
• Demonstrating commitment to personal
development
• Sharing the success
Performance Driven
As the business grows we must ensure that 
we continue to deliver excellence to both our
internal and external customers and that our
employees are focused on performance.  
We will do this by:
• Adopting a ‘can do – will do’ approach
• Being results focused – understanding 
and working towards individual and 
shared targets
• Encouraging and demonstrating 
innovation and creativity
• Demonstrating integrity
• Delivering the requirements
Partnering with Customers and Suppliers
VT is recognised by many customers as a
trusted and reliable partner that can deliver the
specified requirement on time and to budget.
We will continue to do this and develop that
recognition with suppliers by: 
• Developing and maintaining 
positive relationships 
• Listening to and understanding the 
needs of customers and suppliers
• Encouraging openness and honesty
• Promoting teamwork
• Sharing the success
Many companies develop vision and values
statements but fail to make them happen.  
With commitment from senior management 
and involvement by all employees across the
group, we will ensure our vision and values ‘live’
within the group in the long term.
Management 
The group has doubled its size over the past
four years. This has meant we have needed 
to strengthen our management. In the past
twelve months, Jo Robbins, Human Resources
Director, and Matthew Jowett, General
Counsel, have joined the Group Executive
Committee. They have had substantial
experience in working within larger companies
which will greatly benefit VT.
I would like to express my appreciation for the
committed contribution made by Martin Jay
over the past sixteen years, the last three as
chairman. Under Martin’s leadership VT has
been transformed from a Shipbuilding to a
leading Support Services group.
I look forward to continuing to grow the group
successfully with Mike Jeffries whose wealth of
experience in the Support Services sector will
add a new dimension to VT.
Paul Lester Chief Executive
“Our Vision To be Recognised as the
Number One International Government
Services Group”
Copyright DESO, Ministry of Defence
Michael Jeffries and Paul Lester
Left to right: Paul Lester, Lord Bach, Sir David Wright, Bill Rommell
