 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 2
Chairman’s statement
Michael Jeffries
Underlying profit 
before taxation 
and adjusted 
earnings per share 
both improved by 
41% to £86.6m and 
33.9p respectively.
2009 performance
It has been another excellent year for the 
Group’s services businesses (our continuing 
operations), with all divisions producing good 
results as we focus increasingly on this sector. 
We have extended our earnings visibility, 
with the services order book increasing 
by 12 per cent to £4.5bn at the year end 
(2008: £4.0bn). We are in a strong position 
to take the Group forward to become a pure 
services business as we prepare to exit the 
shipbuilding joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet.
Turnover from continuing operations 
increased by 30 per cent in 2009 to £1,095.7m 
(2008: £845.4m). Underlying profit before 
taxation improved by 41 per cent to £86.6m 
(2008: £61.6m) with the corresponding adjusted 
earnings per share improving by 41 per cent to 
33.9p (2008: 24.1p). Operating cash conversion 
from continuing operations during the period 
was 105 per cent (2008: 98 per cent). 
This performance has enabled the Board  
to recommend a final dividend of 10.5p per  
share, giving a total dividend for the year of 
14.4p per share, an increase of 10 per cent  
over last year.
Our plans to exit the shipbuilding and naval  
support joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet 
(BVT), subject to the approval of VT Group’s 
shareholders and other regulatory bodies, 
will make this year an historic one for the 
Group, bringing to an end nearly 150 years 
of shipbuilding.
The exit from the joint venture will provide 
us with opportunities, both acquisitive 
and organic, to grow our higher value, 
engineering-based services businesses. 
The decision to exercise the put option in 
BVT will give the Group a strong balance 
sheet in the current economic climate.
Our services businesses have all 
contributed to the progress of the Group 
with VT Communications seeing an increase 
in profit margins for the year and VT Education 
& Skills showing turnover and profit growth 
driven by the acquisition of VT Flagship in 
the year and successful contract wins in 
their training business. VT Support Services 
benefited from the start of our two major 
defence contracts, the Future Strategic Tanker 
Aircraft (FSTA) and the Military Flying Training 
System (UKMFTS) which both contributed 
to organic turnover and profit growth. 
VT Services Inc saw increases in profit  
and margins helped by the nine-month 
contribution from VT Aepco. 
In preparation for the exit from shipbuilding, 
we have carried out a detailed review of the 
structure of the Group, which will enable us 
to maintain our leading position in delivering 
high value-added services to customers. 
Going forward the Group will be organised 
into three operating segments, Defence, 
Government and Critical Services and 
VT Group Inc.  VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 3
Overview of the year Explaining the Group How we run the Group Statutory information 
We are in a good 
position due to 
excellent visibility 
of earnings, 
strong operating 
cash flow, an 
expanding order 
book and a robust 
balance sheet.
People
In March, Peter McIntosh announced his 
intention to step down from the Board on the 
completion of the exercise of our put option 
in BVT. We would like to thank Peter for his 
significant contribution to the successful 
growth of our business, in a VT career spanning 
18 years in shipbuilding and ship maintenance. 
We would also like to thank him for supporting 
the Ministry of Defence when on secondment 
as Chief Executive of the Carrier Alliance at 
a critical stage of that project’s development. 
We wish Peter well in his future career.
As a result of organisational changes in 
the Group, Group Executive Committee 
members Doug Umbers and Jo Robbins 
have also decided to leave VT. Doug joined 
VT in 1998 and has been Managing Director 
of VT Communications for the past seven 
years. Jo has been Human Resources 
Director since November 2004. Both have 
made important contributions to the Group’s 
expansion in recent years and we wish 
them well in the future. The reorganisation 
also means new roles for John Davies and 
Simon Withey who become UK Group 
Managing Directors, with John responsible 
for our UK Defence business and Simon for 
Government and Critical Services. 
As part of our strategy to focus on the next 
stage of growth in our US business, we have 
appointed David Dacquino as Chief Executive 
of VT Group Inc. David has considerable 
experience of working in technical support 
services in the US defence sector and joined 
VT from Raytheon Corporation, where he was 
Vice President, Integrated Support Solutions, 
at Raytheon Technical Services Company. 
Before joining Raytheon, he spent 20 years 
with Lockheed Martin.
During the year we conducted our first 
Group-wide survey of employees. This has 
covered subjects such as how employees feel 
about working for VT as well as their views on 
the workplace, communications, development 
opportunities, reward, recognition, leadership 
and culture.
The survey response rate of 65 per cent 
and overall satisfaction rating of 78 per cent 
compared very favourably to external 
benchmark comparisons. As a result of the 
survey, and the feedback from business 
units and employee working groups, we are 
implementing a series of improvements over  
the coming year.
Outlook
The next year will be one of opportunity as 
VT Group moves from its shipbuilding roots to 
become a pure services business. We believe 
that our new focus will provide us with a more 
stable business with greater long-term visibility, 
financial flexibility and better prospects for 
growth. We will concentrate on expanding our 
existing businesses organically and, where 
appropriate, through acquisition to strengthen 
our offering to existing customers and provide 
new capabilities.
Reorganising the business to create a more 
customer-focused structure will help us 
improve our relationships with customers and 
create opportunities to add extra work streams 
to current activities. The new structure will also 
help us as we concentrate on renewing and 
extending several of our existing contracts.
We are in a good position due to excellent 
visibility of earnings, strong operating cash 
flow, an expanding order book and a robust 
balance sheet. The Board remains confident 
about the current year and beyond. 
Michael Jeffries
