 “This last twelve months has 
been a year where we have 
seen the fruits of the changes 
and initiatives instigated in
2004/05 emerging, though we 
are ambitious for more” .
Wagon ended the year to 31 March 2006 on the verge of
becoming a significantly changed company from that which 
I described last year. Several days after the close of the year 
we completed the acquisition of Oxford Automotive, which 
has a transformational impact on Wagon’s scale. Our
expectations for the enlarged Group, and how it will run in 
the future are described on pages 10 to 13. However, before
looking forward to the shape of things to come in the enlarged
Group, it is important to ‘take stock’ of the year just ended.
In my first year as Chief Executive in 2004/05, we initiated a
number of significant changes and initiatives foundational to
the future development of Wagon. This last twelve months 
has been a year where we have seen the fruits of those
changes emerging, though we are ambitious for more. 
Review of 2005/06 Priorities
At the beginning of the year we established our five key
priorities for the year as the following:
1 Maintain momentum on order intake.
2 Carefully monitor the cash necessary to fund 
Wagon’s growth.
3 Drive the strategic initiatives to realise the corresponding
cost savings, especially in lean manufacturing and 
supplier development.
4 Cautiously look for acquisition targets in the domain of 
value added products and assembly manufacturing.
5 Accelerate the shift towards Eastern Europe.
Our assessment of what has been delivered on each of these
priorities in the year is set out below.
1. Maintain momentum on order intake
We have again produced a strong order intake in the year with
annual revenue value secured of £80.9 million (d118 million),
almost identical to our record achievement in the year ending
31 March 2005 of £83.0 million. The programme lifetime
revenue value of this additional business is £466.0 million
(2005: £486.0 million). Based on industry standard vehicle
replacement cycles, this represents 1.2 years of manufacturing
revenue (2005: 1.2 years), and provides us with a strong
pipeline of organic growth into the future.
2. Carefully monitor the cash necessary to fund Wagon’s growth
We anticipated a significant outflow of cash during the year,
reflecting the exceptionally good order intake performance in
2005 with the associated capital and tooling working capital
investment requirements. We are pleased to report that we
surpassed our own expectations, restricting the net debt
movement to £14.8 million, even after paying £4.5 million of
cash to acquire FKT . As a result, net debt before preference
shares at the year end was £44.1 million (2005: £29.3 million).
This illustrates the sustained focus on cash control across 
the Group.
Chief Executive’ s Review W agon plc 
Annual Report &
Accounts 2006
04/05
3. Drive the strategic initiatives to realise the corresponding
cost savings, especially in lean manufacturing and 
supplier development
During the year the strategic initiatives became securely
established collectively as the Wagon Management System.
Our emphasis has been to impress on our teams that this is 
not in addition to their day-to-day work, but how they should
perform it. 
• We have continued to make significant progress on our
Safety First programme, beating our internal goal for lost
time accidents and cutting the 12 month rolling average by
more than half. 
• Wagon Excellence System – our lean manufacturing 
initiative – has continued to drive improvements in our stock
to sales ratio down 22% from 5.8% in January 2005 to 
4.5% in March 2006. We have also experienced significant
productivity improvements, which have enabled the
Company to maintain margins in the face of challenging
OEM volumes.
• Our Purchasing programme, Wagon Supplier Development,
has moved ahead strongly this year in direct and indirect
material. Centralised cost reduction action plans on direct
material restricted the non steel purchases to increases of
less than 1%, and a new general expenses cost reduction
initiative generated annualised savings of more than 
£0.8m. The team, tracking systems, and processes have
developed significantly this year, and the Group is achieving
leverage from centralised actions.
Pierre Vareille
Group Chief Executive
Order intake graph
0.0 
5.0 
10.0 
15.0 
20.0 
25.0 
30.0 
Month 
Arp 
May 
June 
July 
Aug 
Sspt 
Oct 
Nov 
Dec 
Jan 
Feb 
Mar 
0.0 
20.0 
40.0 
60.0 
80.0 
100.0 
120.0 
140.0 
Total by Month (hm) 
Cumulative by Month (hm) 
2004/5 Cum. by Month (hm) 
 
Order Intake (hm): 2005/06 
Monthly Intake (hm) 
Cumulative Intake (hm)  Chief Executive’ s Review
Continued
• The Wagon Customer Focus initiative has supported the
programme order intake process, which has resulted in
another strong year in order intake. Wagon has developed 
a more focussed strategy of programmes to target relative 
to its capabilities and future capacities.
• Under the Wagon People Empowerment programme, 
we are realigning our operating units around the principle 
of autonomous production units, which will accelerate the
benefits of the Wagon Excellence System and give more
autonomy to our employees. This will harness their
capabilities and increase their job satisfaction, whilst
improving our business.
4. Cautiously look for acquisition targets in the domain 
of value added products and assembly manufacturing
We completed the acquisition of FKT on 30 November 
2005, which has brought strong capabilities and customer
relationships into the Innovative Solutions Business Group. 
Earlier in the year, we also initiated a commercial association
with Oxford Automotive, which enabled our then separate
companies to win the contract for the Peugeot 308 Station
Wagon rear structural assembly. This venture led us to realise
the strategic benefits of a broader combination with Oxford.
5. Accelerate the shift towards Eastern Europe
Our new press capacity in the Czech Republic will be on stream
in August 2006. We have looked at a number of acquisition
opportunities in Eastern Europe this year, but have declined to
progress further as the fit was not close enough to our
business requirements. The acquisition of Oxford Automotive
gives a partial answer to this priority as it provides a substantial
footprint in T urkey, which is a rapidly developing low cost
location for automotive production.
Financial Results for 2006
This subject is covered in much greater detail in the Financial
Review; however, I am pleased to be able to report that:
• Sales from manufacturing were lower than last year as
predicted due to historic weak order bookings at £389.5
million (2005: £405.1 million), but were also further impacted
by certain weak programmes, particularly in France.
• Underlying operating profits were £21.5 million (2005: 
£24.0 million). Whilst lower than last year due to lower 
sales, the profit margin was only marginally impacted at
5.2% (2005: 5.3%). This maintenance of margin in the face
of weaker sales, and difficult second half volumes can be
correlated directly with the Wagon Management System
programmes, notably Wagon Excellence System and 
Wagon Supplier Development.
An International Business
(1 April 2005 – 31 March 2006)
18 Manufacturing Locations:
Belgium (1), Czech Republic (1),
France (7), Germany (2), Italy (2), 
Spain (1), UK (3), USA (1) W agon plc 
Annual Report &
Accounts 2006
06/07
• Net debt movement was better than forecast at £14.8 
million increase, with net debt (before preference shares)
ending at £44.1 million. This reflects improvements in our
stockholding arising from Wagon Excellence System, 
as well as continuously improving focus on capital
expenditure, debtors and tooling working capital in our
business processes.
Operational Highlights
Engineered Structures
Despite volume pressures, the performance of our plants at
Sainte Gauburge, Gérardmer, and Waldaschaff was sound.
Brownhills was weaker earlier in the year and Fontaine
performance fell significantly short of expectations due to
surprisingly weak volumes on its sole model, the 307 coupé
cabriolet for Peugeot. Our newly constructed plant at Atessa 
in Italy started production towards the end of the year,
producing roll-profiled space frames for the new Ducato van
structure, and will make a significant contribution in 2007.
During the year we exited from our machine tool building
activities in France and the UK, as these activities can be 
out-sourced more cost effectively. Significant programme
awards secured in the year included the Peugeot 308 Station
Wagon rear structure assembly (in association with Oxford
Automotive), Peugeot Partner door rails, door structures on 
the Ford Maverick, and various structures on the Honda Civic
and CRV .
Metal Components
In the Czech Republic, our Bêlá plant had another successful
year. Our French plants (Bessines, La Souterraine and
Beaucourt) had a difficult year reflecting weak volumes from
the French OEMs in particular. In the UK solid progress was
made in the operational performance of Tyseley, and Wantage
staged a dramatic performance turnaround following the
impact of the MG Rover closure in April 2005. Programme
awards secured in the year include significant stamped parts
on the Skoda Fabia for Bêlá, and on the BMW Mini for our UK
plants and a range of stampings to several other Tier 1
Customers.
Innovative Solutions
Innovative Solutions made great strides during the year,
moving from just one plant in Bressuire a year ago to three 
live plants at the year end, with the addition of one in Spain 
and one in Germany. Bressuire was impacted by the expected
Renault Espace seat rail reconfiguration in July. In August we
were awarded the programme to produce flush windows for
the Hyundai Starex and we are in the process of preparing a
plant in Shanghai for this. In November we completed the
acquisition of FKT , which gives the business greater access 
to the German OEMs notably VW / Audi, and offering us a new
entry into BMW. The new plant at Orense, Spain is now open,
and in start-up phase for the production of sunblinds and
sunroofs for the new Citroen Picasso.
“Thanks to the efforts of all of 
our employees and managers,
Wagon is a safer place to work” . Chief Executive’ s Review
Continued
Oleo
Oleo continued to perform consistently and, as part of its
expansion to serve the fast growing Chinese market, is
establishing a lift buffer line alongside the Innovative Solutions
plant in Shanghai.
Acquisition of Oxford Automotive
On April 7 2006, Wagon completed the acquisition of Oxford
Automotive in an all share deal worth £128.4 million. 
The move will provide increased scale and greater
technological capability, which in turn will enable us to meet 
the growing trend in the automotive parts market for the
outsourcing of larger modules by the OEMs, and allow us 
to compete effectively for larger projects, and to offer
complete modules.
Wagon and Oxford Automotive share a number of 
customers: in particular Peugeot, Renault-Nissan, Ford and
DaimlerChrysler. The enlarged Group will be able to develop
its product and service offering to these groups and 
other OEMs including the Volkswagen Group, Fiat, Honda 
and Hyundai.
As a result of the transaction, Wagon’s existing technologies
and product offering – which include roll forming, stretch
bending, assembly, closure systems, shading and glazing
systems and cargo management systems – are complemented
by Oxford Automotive’s greater heavy stamping capability for
work above 1,000 tonnes, and expertise in larger structural
products and closure mechanisms.
Geographically our activities are well matched with plants
located close to the major OEM manufacturing centres
throughout Europe. The existence of plants in the Czech
Republic, T urkey and China reflects the continuing migration 
of the OEMs to these low-cost countries.
We are working fast to reorganise and integrate the two
businesses, and have realigned our autonomous business
groups to reflect the business capabilities and markets of the
enlarged Group. T wo months after completion, this integration
has advanced considerably. A new Board and Executive
Committee have been formed, new Business Groups and
functional organisations have been implemented and the
commercial and engineering teams have been combined.
Appointments have been made to the first two levels of the
organisation and the third level is nearing completion. We
are in the process of combining our two operational centre 
facilities in Paris.
Our Customers
(1 April 2005 – 31 March 2006)
Safety First
Lost Time Accidents
Based at 100 as at April 2004
30 
40 
50 
60 
70 
80 
90 
100 
4/04 
5/04 
6/04 
7/04 
8/04 
9/04 
10/04 
11/04 
12/04 
1/05 
2/05 
3/05 
4/05 
5/05 
6/05 
7/05 
8/05 
9/05 
10/05 
11/05 
12/05 
1/06 
2/06 
3/06  W agon plc 
Annual Report &
Accounts 2006
08/09
As part of the integration process, we are in discussions
regarding the potential disposal of 5 low-tonnage stamping
plants – 3 in France (Beaucourt, Bessines and La Souterraine)
and 2 in the UK (Tyseley and Wantage) – representing a
combined turnover of up to £90 million.
As well as the many strategic benefits to be achieved from 
the combination of the two businesses, there will be 
significant benefits to Wagon shareholders following the
integration and reorganisation process, and we anticipate 
that the transaction will be materially earnings enhancing 
in the year to March 2008
1
.
2006/07 Priorities
Having completed the acquisition of Oxford Automotive, 
our primary focus for the coming year is to integrate the two
businesses swiftly and effectively thus realising the benefits 
of the combination:
1. Integrate the Oxford Automotive operations to improve
efficiency, and to secure cost savings.
2. Implement the Wagon Management System (and
particularly Safety First) across the enlarged company.
3. Establish a broader manufacturing footprint in low 
cost countries.
4. Leverage our customer base to further develop and 
enhance existing relationships.
5. Continue separate product and market development 
for the Innovative Solutions Business Group.
The coming year will bring fresh challenges on the road to
delivering the successful combination of Oxford and Wagon. 
In the last twelve months, the Group has responded to the
challenges faced by lower sales whilst increasing profitability,
and gained benefits from embracing the Wagon Management
System; I am confident that our enlarged ‘family’ of employees
will rise to the challenges in the year ahead, just as they have
done in 2006.
Pierre Vareille
Chief Executive
8 June 2006
1
The statement in this paragraph is not intended to constitute a profit forecast for the financial
year ending 31 March 2008 or for any other period. Nor should such statement be interpreted
to mean that earnings or earnings per share will necessarily be greater or lesser than those for
the relevant preceding financial period for the enlarged Wagon plc Group. Rather this
statement should be construed as a reference to an enhancement above the earnings that
might otherwise have been earned during the relevant financial period.
Acquisition of Oxford Automotive
The opportunity
—Transformational change in scale
—Enhanced product and technology offering
—Creates a substantial supplier of structural 
assemblies and mechanisms
—Broadens and strengthens customer base
—Enhanced presence in low cost countries
—Synergies and operating savings
Oxford Automotive
Profile
Oxford Automotive is a major European automotive supplier,
making structural parts and assemblies and other metal-based
components. Its primary products are structural modules 
and systems, exposed closure and articulation components,
many of which are critical to the structural integrity and design
of the vehicle. Oxford’s strengths include long standing
relationships with key customers, well invested facilities, a
strong balance sheet and diverse know-how of stamping,
welding, riveting and surface treatment.
Oxford Automotive
Facts & Figures
Employees
3,1 23
Sites
9
Turnover
2005
£366.0m
