 CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
The year ended 31 March 2005 has seen
an encouraging improvement in financial
performance, with a further improvement
in underlying operating profit in spite of
slightly declining product sales, a
continued strong operating cash flow,
and a significant reduction in net debt.
This year has seen the transformation of
the Group’s organisation and operating
focus under the leadership of Pierre
Vareille, who has just completed his 
first year as the Group’s CEO. Our order
intake is the largest ever, and positions
Wagon well for the coming years. The
first results of the Group’s renewed
emphasis on operational performance
are evident: our safety, quality and
productivity indicators are moving
markedly in the right direction. The
Group has also successfully managed
the margin challenges presented by 
the steel price rises, whilst delivering
improved profitability.
The recent demise of MG Rover
provides some short term challenge 
as previously communicated, though
progress with other OEM’s in recent
months has presented new opportunities
for Wagon to sell its expertise to our
strategic customers. The Group has also
achieved an excellent performance in
the management of its cash, and its
debt profile is the strongest for several
years, enabling us confidently to finance
the introduction of the new programmes
we have secured. 
Results and dividends
Sales from continuing operations were
down by 7.5% to £450.6 million (2004:
£486.9 million), reflecting lower revenue
from tooling and prototypes following
the lower level of programme start ups
two years ago. Underlying operating
profit from continuing operations
increased by 13.4% to £22.8 million
(2004: £20. 1 million), with profitability
increasing from 4. 1% to 5. 1%.
Group profit before taxation, exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation and
impairment was £19.4 million (2004:
£16.5 million), a 17.6% increase,
underlining the strengthening of the
Group’s operational focus. 
Exceptional items totalling £13.8 million
comprise £11.0 million in respect of the
restructuring programme announced in
September 2004 together with the
previously reported loss on disposal 
of £0.8 million relating to the sale of 
the Redditch operations. Following 
the demise of MG Rover, exceptional
costs of £2.0 million have been incurred 
out of the £2.4 million anticipated and
previously communicated. 
Goodwill amortisation was £2.4 million
(2004: £2.4 million), plus the write 
off of an additional £2.1 million 
relating to the planned disposal of the
Engineering Consultancy business in
the US. An impairment review of the
Accra Teknik investment results in a
£2.6 million charge.
Group loss after taxation was 
£6.5 million (2004 profit: £1.8 million)
and loss per share was 15.5 pence
(2004: earnings per share 0.5 pence).
Underlying earnings per share, which
exclude all exceptional items, goodwill
amortisation and impairment, were 
23.7 pence (2004: 20.1 pence), a 
17.9% increase. 
Net interest charges were £3.4 million
(2004: £3.6 million), covered 6.7 times
by underlying operating profits (2004:
5.6 times), and reflect lower levels of
average net debt. With positive
operating cash flow of £52.5 million
(2004: £45.0 million), including the
effect of lower capital expenditure, 
net debt stood at £29.3 million at the
year end (2004: £48.2 million). 
“THIS YEAR 
HAS SEEN AN 
ENCOURAGING
IMPROVE MENT 
IN FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE”
David Kendall, Chairman Finally, I should like to thank all of our
employees in the eight countries in
which we operate for their hard work
and support. I am sure the years ahead
will provide exciting opportunities for 
all our people. The Board is grateful 
to our employees for their dedication
and professionalism.
Current trading and outlook
Our expectation for the current year is
for flat automotive volumes in Europe.
Our sales will be lower, on account of
MG Rover and the loss of the Renault
Espace seat rail programme later 
this year as a result of a customer
reconfiguration of the vehicle.
However we have been able to mitigate
some of the impact of MG Rover’s
demise, through operational
improvements already realised and the
acceleration of the closure of our Oxford
plant. During the year, we will see the
benefits of our restructuring programme,
as well as margin benefits from our key
initiatives of the Wagon Excellence
System, and the Supplier Development
procurement programme. 
After a quieter year in programme
introductions, the tooling and capital
expenditure to support the £83 million 
of new business won will increase from
the low levels last year, to deliver
revenue growth and margin expansion
in the year to March 2007 and thereafter. 
The Board is recommending an
unchanged final dividend of 5.0 pence
per share, making the total dividend for
the year 9.0 pence (2004: 9.0 pence).
The dividend is covered 2.7 times by
underlying earnings per share. The final
dividend will be declared payable on 
6 September 2005 to members on 
the register at close of business on 
5 August 2005.
A description of the main factors behind
the financial results is contained within
the Chief Executive’s, Business 
Group, and Financial Reviews on the
following pages.
People
I am pleased to welcome Richard Cotton
to the Group, who joined as Finance
Director on 18 April 2005. Richard 
brings to Wagon over twenty years’
experience in finance and operations 
in manufacturing, including senior roles
in international companies. Richard’s
experience and skills will provide strong
financial leadership as he works with
Pierre Vareille to develop and improve
the performance of the business. 
I would also like to thank David Sleath
who has stepped down as Finance
Director in March after more than five
years of significant contribution to the
Group. We wish him well as he moves
on to the next chapter of his career. 
Overall, we believe that our strategic
initiatives can maintain the current
momentum on order intake while
delivering further operational
improvements in the future.
My term of office comes to an end 
at this year’s Annual General Meeting
and having reached the age of 70, I shall
not be seeking re-election. The Board
expects to announce the name of my
successor before that meeting and I
wish him every success in the next
phase of Wagon’s development.
It remains for me to thank the
shareholders, my Board colleagues 
and the staff for their support during 
my years as Chairman. Wagon has 
gone through enormous progressive
change during that period and is now, 
I believe, in a position to reap the reward
that everyone deserves. I leave with a
feeling of great confidence. 
David Kendall
Chairman
7 June 2005
Wagon plc 
Annual Report &
Accounts 2005
02/03
