 6Wagonplc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s
Review
Key German
Contracts awarded
Following the acquisitions of FKT
and Oxford, Wagon grows its
position in Germany with two key
contracts awarded. A Luggage
Management System for BMW
and a Military Truck Cabin (stampings,
assembly and painting) for Daimler
Chrysler trucks.
2006/07:
A period of achievement
Renault Mégane
contracts awarded:
Hinge + BiW
Confirming its position as a key
partner to Renault, Wagon wins
contracts for more than £7.5 million
in annual turnover to supply the new
Mégane platform with hinges and
large body-in-white assemblies.
Several of Wagon’s French plants
will contribute to supplying the
Renault Mégane.
Acquisition
of Oxford
On 7 of April the Board announces
the acquisition of Oxford Automotive,
a leading European automotive
supplier of large stampings, Body-
in-White Assemblies and hinges
and mechanisms. This acquisition
consolidates Wagon’s position as
a leading partner to the European
automotive industry and nearly
doubles the Group’s sales.
April May July
We have brought together
the talents and resources of
two businesses into a single
organisation capable of more
effectively serving our
chosen market sectors with
enhanced technologies,
footprint and scale.
‘‘
‘‘
Pierre Vareille
Group Chief Executive
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 6 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7
These actions have enabled the Group to mitigate some of the
effects of trading weakness during the year and the benefits
are expected to recover the costs of the restructuring by the
end of 2008, as anticipated at the time of the announcement
of the acquisition of Oxford.
2. Implement the Wagon Management System across the
enlarged company.
We have been very encouraged by our progress in the Wagon
Management System programmes during the year, and in
particular with the enthusiasm of engagement by the former
Oxford plants in Safety First and Wagon Excellence.
– In Safety First, a key indicator of overall plant performance,
we have reduced the Lost Time Accident rate by 36%, and
of our 22 plants, 3 achieved at least 12 months without a
Lost Time Accident during the year. Although Wagon has
now joined the league of the good performers in our industry,
we believe that there are still improvements to be made,
to make Wagon a safer and more efficient organisation.
– In Wagon Excellence, our Internal PPM reject rate has declined
by 32%, and our Value Added per Employee has increased by
4.5%. Our Stock on Sales % has decreased by 9.9%.
– In Customer Focus, our customer quality measure – External
PPM rejects – has reduced by 48%, and customer claims
by 8%.
All of our plants, save for the newest in Shanghai (China), now
have third party accreditations under ISO14001 (environmental
systems), ISOTS16949-ISO 9001 (quality systems) and
OHSAS18001 (safety systems).
This has been a transformational twelve months for Wagon,
bringing together the talents and resources of the former
Wagon and Oxford businesses into a single organisation
capable of more effectively serving its chosen market sectors,
with enhanced technologies, footprint and scale.
Review of 2006/07 Priorities
At the beginning of the year we established our five key
priorities for the year. We have made significant progress
against all of these:
1. Integrate the Oxford Automotive operations to improve
efficiency, and to secure cost savings.
Having adopted a clearly defined new organisational model
from the first day following acquisition, we have run three
major reorganisation programmes:
a. The Operational Centre integration, completed in December,
involved the closure of Wagon’s former headquarters in
Poissy, France and the transfer of its activities to Oxford
Automotive’s base near Paris.
b. The disposal of five low-tonnage stampings plants, also
completed in December, was an important strategic step.
They operated in a market segment non-core to Wagon’s
new positioning and performed poorly during the first half.
The transaction resulted in a loss on disposal of £26.4 million.
c. The plant restructuring programmes, now well into their
final stages, include the co-location of common production
technologies and associated plant closures, productivity
improvements and the rebalancing of our manufacturing
footprint. As part of this process, all of the Ford production
was successfully moved to Waldaschaff from Fleurus ahead
of the latter’s closure. As previously announced, these
actions will result in the loss of approximately 900 jobs
across the Group.
Ford Fusion contract
awarded
Car manufacturers are increasingly
adopting sliding doors in response to
consumer demand for easier access
to car interiors. Wagon is the European
leader for designing and supplying a
system of rails and mechanisms for
sliding doors. Ford chose to partner
with Wagon to supply the new Ford
Fusion which will be equipped with
sliding doors for the first time.
Operational
Centres merged
Five months after the completion
of the Oxford acquisition, Wagon
combined the two French
Operational Centres responsible
for engineering, commercial and
administrative functions together
into the former Oxford location
near Paris, thereby saving costs
and improving communications
and cross-selling synergies.
September September October
Turn over to read more on a year of achievements
Fiat Qualitas award
Wagon is awarded a special prize
called “Qualitas” at the Fiat
Supplier’s International Convention
on 25 October 2006. This prize
recognises Wagon in Italy as
Fiat’s best supplier worldwide
in terms of quality, service and
customer satisfaction.
(See page 10)
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 7 8Wagonplc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
3. Establish a broader manufacturing footprint, particularly
in low cost countries.
We have opened three new plants this year: in Atessa (Italy),
producing body structure parts for the Ducato van for the Fiat /
PSA joint venture; in Orense (Spain) producing the sun visor
and glass roof systems for the new Citroën Xsara Picasso; and
in Shanghai (China) where we have started production for
Hyundai, and where our Oleo business is also now producing
lift buffers.
In addition, as part of our restructuring programme and our
development in low cost countries, we have established
expertise in roll-forming and assembly at our plant in Bursa
(Turkey), and we are establishing an assembly plant in Romania
to serve our Innovative Solutions and Closure Systems
businesses. We have also accelerated the transfer of some
programmes to our plant in Turkey, particularly from our plant
in Brownhills (UK).
4. Leverage our customer base to further develop and
enhance existing relationships.
The combined capabilities of the enlarged business enable
us to provide new product lines. In particular, we hold leading
positions in several areas such as sliding door rails and
mechanisms and structural roll-profiled products. We are also
pursuing promising opportunities with those European OEMs
with whom we were not previously working, particularly
in Germany.
As already announced order intake from French OEMs has
been weaker this year partly due to temporary in-sourcing
trends, which we believe are now passed. The lifetime turnover
value of the orders booked in the year represents 77% of the
manufacturing turnover of the continuing business (2006:
111%). In mitigation, the impact of this weaker intake will not
be felt for at least two years and will depend on the extent to
which order intake can be made up elsewhere.
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
SSAB Swedish
Steel Prize
SSAB Swedish Steel organises a world-wide
competition every year to award a prize for the
best and most innovative use of high strength
steel. We are proud to have won the first prize
in collaboration with our customer Fiat for
the door internal waistline re-inforcement
for the highly successful Fiat Grande Punto.
Using roll-forming technology, the result is
a very competitive product characterised by
high strength, low weight and very efficient
material usage.
Wagon Supplier
Convention held
In October, Wagon’s first Supplier Convention
brought together 150 participants representing
the Group’s 95 top suppliers, at the Stade de
France, in Paris. The Group’s organisation
and strategy, and the Wagon Supplier
Development programme were presented.
At the end of the afternoon all participants had
the chance to meet in less formal surroundings
and to view the Group’s full product range.
Suppliers left the convention with a clear view
of Wagon Automotive today and what is now
expected from them. (See page 1 1)
October November
Following this transformational
year, in 2007/08 we will seek to
build on the solid foundations
of the enlarged and
restructured Group.
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 8 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 9
Among significant programme wins for the Closure Systems
Business Group were the front bumper assembly on the
Peugeot T8 (PSA MPV), the sliding door mechanisms and rails
for the Ford Fusion, and door frames on the X35X (GM Epsilon II).
In Body Structures, the most significant success has been
securing the Peugeot T76 programme, which will replace the
existing T56 (PSA 307cc) in 2008. This secures the future of the
Fontaine plant, and addresses all of the associated legacy issues.
Significant work was also won for the W62 (Renault Master).
5. Continue new product and new market development for the
Innovative Solutions Business Group.
The primary focus has been on the commissioning of the two
new plants in Orense and Shanghai, and on a number of new
programme start-ups. Sales of the innovative patented flush
bay windows, currently being produced in Shanghai for the
Hyundai Starex, should develop rapidly in the years to come.
The integration of FKT following its acquisition in December
2005 has enabled us to offer our existing products to the
German market and we have started the development of a new
concept for glass roofs, which we expect to be well received
amongst both French and German OEMs.
2007/08 Priorities
Following this transformational year, we will seek to build on
the solid foundations of the enlarged and restructured Group
with the following agenda of priorities.
1. Consolidate the extensive step changes to reap the full
benefits of our reorganisation programme
2. Further embed the Wagon Management System (and
particularly Safety First) across the enlarged company
3. Develop our innovation capabilities to augment our offer,
and enhance our relationship with our customers
4. Examine and pursue de-leveraging opportunities
5. Look for a new step change in our footprint and continue
to develop our presence in low cost countries.
Pierre Vareille
Chief Executive
7 June 2007
Start of Production
in Shanghai
Wagon inaugurates the start of
production of its new Shanghai plant.
The plant manufactures safety-critical
buffers for lift manufacturers, bringing
Wagon Oleo closer to its customers in
the largest world market for new lifts.
The plant will also manufacture Wagon’s
patented “bay flush” sliding window
for the Asian market.
Ford Transit
transfer
In close co-operation with Ford,
Wagon redeploys production cells
to move closer to Ford’s assembly
plants, relocating bumper system
production from the UK to Turkey
where Ford increasingly assembles
its Transit van. Months of careful
preparation and training enabled a
seamless transfer without any
disruption to Ford’s assembly
lines. (See page 13)
Roll-forming techniques
Roll-forming is a metal forming technique used for steel,
stainless steel and aluminium to shape coils of metal into
parts with a profile by passing the sheet metal through a
series of rollers that progressively bend the metal into its
final desired profile. Once a straight profile is achieved then
the final curved shape is created by stretch bending the
profile. Roll-forming is often combined with in-line punching,
cutting and stamping operations to make holes in the part
(usually prior to profiling) or to give it its final shape.
It presents significant advantages over alternative
metal forming techniques, including in particular much
better material usage, lower tooling costs, higher tolerances
for long parts and greater flexibility to produce variants.
January
Orense in full swing
with Citroën C4
Picasso launch
Wagon’s new plant in Western Spain
goes into full production as our partner
PSA launches the 5 seat version of
the C4 Picasso. Wagon designed and
supplies door shading systems, novel
extendable sunvisors as well as the
optional glass roof and shading system.
(See page 12)
February December
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 9
