 4Wagonplc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Following the acquisition of Oxford Automotive at the very start
of the year under review, this has been a period focussed on
integration and the realisation of the synergies arising from
the combination.
Significant restructuring actions have taken place in both our
European Operational Centre and within our plants, and we
successfully disposed of five non strategic plants in December
2006. The result is a considerably stronger business, better
positioned to serve the needs of the automotive market in Europe.
Trading conditions overall proved more difficult than the
Company expected. In France in particular, currently our
largest market, demand was weak, as previously announced.
In light of this the Company has agreed heads of terms for a
refinancing of its lending facilities.
As previously announced, order intake from French OEMs
has been weaker this year partly due to temporary in-sourcing
trends, which we believe are now passed. In mitigation, the
impact of this will not be felt for at least two years and will
depend on the extent to which order intake can be made
up elsewhere.
Despite these difficult market conditions, the strong
improvements in our operations and the wide-ranging cost
cutting initiatives have allowed us to deliver results in line with
our expectations.
Given the uncertain market conditions and balancing business
opportunities and operational restructuring commitments,
the Board considers it prudent to recommend a reduced final
dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share, making 5.0p for the year,
which will be paid on 6 September 2007 to members on the
register at close of business on 10 August 2007. Shareholders
Chairman’s
Statement
Christopher Clark
Chairman
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 4 Wagon plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5
will be given the opportunity to elect for a scrip dividend in lieu
of the cash dividend – shareholder approval for this will be
sought at the AGM. In future the Company intends to align
dividends more closely to earnings, targeting cover of two
times normalised earnings.
People and Board changes
Sarkis Kalyandjian and Hervé Guillaume, who were appointed
as Directors following the completion of the acquisition of
Oxford Automotive, stepped down from the Wagon Board
at the end of March, and we thank them for their contributions.
Rolf Zimmermann has been appointed as Remuneration
Committee Chairman following the departure of Sarkis
Kalyandjian, as previously announced.
We welcomed Jens Höhnel to the Board. Jens has many
years experience in the Automotive industry, especially
in the German market, and we very much look forward
to his contributions.
Following these changes, the Board is in the process of
recruiting a further independent Non-Executive Director to
return the Company to the expected balance of independence
required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
This has been a very busy year with many competing demands
on management time, and the strength and quality of Wagon’s
management has shown through in successfully delivering on
many fronts.
For our employees this has been a turbulent year with
significant restructuring activity occurring across the Group.
It is the employees who define Wagon’s performance, and
we thank them for their contributions in the midst of the
restructuring actions, and at times difficult trading conditions.
Current Trading and Outlook
Trading volumes since the start of the new financial year
are in line with the Board’s expectations, and as previously
announced, current market pressures on raw material
pricing are expected to have only a marginal effect on
our performance.
The outlook for European new car registrations remains
unclear, particularly in France, our largest market. However,
we start the current year a stronger company having integrated
the two businesses, and harnessed the administrative
synergies arising from the combination.
We have progressed a long way in the rearrangement of
the combined manufacturing resources, to provide an
organisation better sized and structured to serve our markets.
In the current year we expect to see the previously announced
benefits from restructuring programmes materialising in
earnings improvements.
Christopher Clark
Chairman
7 June 2007
Despite difficult market conditions,
the strong improvements in our
operations and the wide-ranging
cost cutting initiatives have
allowed us to deliver results
in line with our expectations.
‘‘
‘‘
Front_end_AW_F_jd2.qxp:Layout 1  14/6/07  22:20  Page 5
