 “Wagon has produced a solid
performance in 2006 and traded
in line with expectations ”.
Introduction
Against the backdrop of difficult European automotive markets,
Wagon has produced a solid performance in 2006 and traded in
line with expectations.
As expected, sales were lower than in the previous year, but 
in the context of weaker volumes, the small decrease in our
operating margin was a good achievement and illustrates the
strengthening of our operational controls, particularly from 
the impact of the Wagon Management System. 
Our order intake has maintained its progress providing a strong
platform for future organic growth, despite a year that has seen
OEM delay the award of new programmes. The Innovative
Solutions Business Group was significantly strengthened by
the technology and customer relationships brought through 
the acquisition of FKT .
Following the year end we completed the acquisition of 
Oxford Automotive ApS for £128.4 million satisfied through 
the issue of new ordinary shares. The combination of our
Engineered Structures and Metal Components businesses
with Oxford Automotive provides a strong technology and
market platform for future growth and provides Wagon with 
a transformational change in scale. The acquisition is expected 
to deliver material earnings enhancement in the year to 
31 March 2008
1
and paves the way for further strategic and
operational development. 
Results and dividend
Sales from manufacturing operations were lower at £389.5
million (2005: £405.1 million) due to reduced volumes and 
the effect of previously advised weakness in historic order
placements. In spite of this, underlying operating profit 
before the preference share dividend was £21.5 million 
(2005: £24.0m) with underlying operating margin only
marginally down from 5.3% to 5.2% reflecting ongoing
operational improvements, and our lower cost base 
offsetting some difficult volumes in the second half.
Underlying profit before taxation and preference share
dividend, was £17.0 million (2005: £19.7 million). 
Chairman’ s Statement
Christopher Clark
Chairman W agon plc 
Annual Report &
Accounts 2006
02/03
I am pleased to welcome to the Group the employees of FKT
GmbH and Oxford Automotive ApS, as we look forward to
working together on the exciting opportunities provided by
these acquisitions. 
Further I am pleased to welcome our new Wagon plc 
Directors, who were appointed as part of the acquisition of
Oxford Automotive: Wilbur Ross Jr., Hervé Guillaume, Sarkis
Kalyandjian and Rolf Zimmermann all bring broad international
experience to the Board table from a range of backgrounds.
Finally, I would like to thank Richard Wright who retired as a
Director during the acquisition of Oxford Automotive. Richard
has served the Group well, and his automotive experience 
has helped the Group’s perspective during his association 
with Wagon.
Current trading and outlook
Following the acquisition of Oxford Automotive, the Group 
has rapidly put in place the new organisation structure, and 
is implementing reorganisation plans affecting both central
functions and plants.
As part of this exercise, and as already announced, the Group 
is reviewing the ongoing ownership of 5 of its low tonnage
press plants.
The planned reorganisation projects will incur significant cash
outflow in the current year, and in the first half of 2007/08, as
anticipated at the time of the acquisition of Oxford. However,
the benefits will be derived in the year 2007/08.
As highlighted in our update of 10 May 2006, the current
financial year will be challenging. In addition to both Wagon 
and Oxford being at the low point of their revenue expectations
due to historically weak order intake, there is slow activity at
some of our major customers, particularly in France.
We are monitoring carefully raw material market price
developments to ensure Wagon maintains its value 
added margins.
However, despite near term challenges, the strong order 
intake of the past two years will benefit the enlarged Group's
turnover in the year to 2007/08 as these programmes come
into production either later in 2006/07 or in 2007/08. This,
coupled with the significant reorganisation projects, following
the acquisition of Oxford Automotive, means that Wagon is a
much stronger business compared with two years ago and the
Board is justified in looking to the future with confidence
1
. 
Christopher Clark
Chairman
8 June 2006
1
The statement in this paragraph is not intended to constitute a profit forecast for the financial
year ending 31 March 2008 or for any other period. Nor should such statement be interpreted
to mean that earnings or earnings per share will necessarily be greater or lesser than those 
for the relevant preceding financial period for the enlarged Wagon plc group. Rather this
statement should be construed as a reference to an enhancement above the earnings that
might otherwise have been earned during the relevant financial period.
The Group incurred charges of £0.4 million relating to
redundancies carried out at the start of the year following 
the demise of MG Rover, as reported at the half year. The 
loss on disposals of £0.8m is made up of £0.3 million relating 
to the disposal of US Engineering Consulting business, Hawtal
Whiting, as announced in August 2005, and £0.5m relating to
the sale and closure of the machine tool building activities in
France and the UK, following the decision to out-source these
activities in future.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS, no goodwill amortisation
was charged and there was no goodwill impairment. Intangible
asset amortisation of £2.5 million represents the amortisation
of development costs, software and intangible assets acquired
with FKT .
Group profit after taxation was £10.2 million (2005: loss £(3.9)
million) and basic earnings per share were 19.9p (2005: loss 
per share (10.5)p). Underlying earnings per share were 22.2p
(2005: 24.2p).
Net interest charges before the preference share dividend
were £4.5 million (2005: £4.3 million), covered 4.8 times by
underlying operating profits (2005: 5.6 times). 
Net debt was substantially lower than previously expected 
at £44.1 million (before preference shares) (2005: £29.3 
million) due to strong working capital management. Net debt
movement, including £4.5 million relating to the acquisition 
of FKT was £(14.8) million (2005: net debt movement £18.9
million), despite the predicted increase in tooling working
capital due to growth in the amount of orders in the pipeline.
With the reclassification of £14.0 million of the preference
shares as debt at 1 April 2005 following the adoption of 
IAS32 and 39, the resultant aggregate net debt is therefore
£58.1 million (2005: £29.3m). 
As was noted in the Prospectus dated 13 March 2006 issued 
in connection with the acquisition of Oxford Automotive 
ApS, the Board declared a second interim dividend, in lieu 
of a final dividend, of 5.0 pence per ordinary share (2005: 
final dividend 5.0 pence). This will be paid on 6 September to
shareholders on the register as at 31 March 2006. This brings
the total interim dividends declared for the year to 9.0 pence
per ordinary share (2005: 9.0 pence). Accordingly no final
dividend is to be declared.
People and Board changes
As ever, our success is in the hands of our dedicated
employees, and I would like to thank all of them for their 
hard work and loyalty to Wagon. The improvement of our
operational controls was made possible by the hard work 
and drive of our management who have demonstrated 
strong leadership and focus delivering solid Wagon
Management System progress.
