 Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Reports and Accounts 2006 0
Chairman’s Statement
	“ 	These	excellent	financial	results	show	that	the	restructuring	of	 	 the	Company	is	complete.	The	start	of	the	current	financial	year	 continues	to	see	all	parts	of	the	Company	trading	profitably	and	 	 we	are	confident	of	continuing	to	develop	the	Company	into	an	 exciting,	cash	generative	and	highly	profitable	business.	Your	Board	 views	the	future	with	increasing	confidence	and	looks	forward	to	 delivering	substantial	shareholder	value.”
Overview
This	has	been	a	landmark	year	in	the	recent	history	of	Walker	 Greenbank,	and	I	am	pleased	to	report	that	the	Group	has	 returned	a	full-year	operating	profit	for	the	first	time	since	 	 the	year	2000,	following	the	considerable	losses	of	the	past	 	 five	years.	The	encouraging	return	to	operating	profit	that	 	 I	reported	at	the	half-year	stage	gathered	momentum	in	the	 second	half.	This	significant	achievement	underlines	the	Board’s	 strategy	of	re-establishing	the	Group	as	a	profitable	and	cash-
generative	business	with	an	exciting	and	sustainable	future.
The	business	is	now	fully	benefiting	from	the	total	integration	 of	Sanderson	within	the	Group	and	the	considerable	 investment	in	product	that	has	taken	place	in	this	brand	over	 the	past	two	years.	Profits	have	been	further	enhanced	by	the	 full-year	effect	of	the	considerable	cost	savings	that	have	been	 achieved	following	the	amalgamation	of	all	the	Group’s	brands	 under	the	control	of	one	management	structure	and	the	exit	 	 of	low	margin	non-core	business.	 All	parts	of	the	Group’s	business	have	traded	profitably.	After	a	 difficult	start	to	the	year,	Standfast,	our	fabric -printing	factory,	 recovered	strongly	in	the	second	half	and	posted	a	full-year	 profit.	Significant	progress	has	also	been	made	at	Anstey,	 	 our	wallpaper	factory,	following	the	reorganisation	and	cost-
reduction	exercise	that	took	place	in	the	latter	part	of	last	 	 year	and	the	refocus	of	the	business	at	the	premium	end	of	 	 the	market.	This,	combined	with	the	return	to	popularity	 	 of	wallpaper	at	the	premium	end	of	the	market,	as	the 	 fashion	for	minimalism	has	started	to	wane,	has	returned	 Anstey	to	profitability	for	the	first	time	in	six	years.
Our	brands	have	all	performed	strongly.	Harlequin,	our	mid-
market	brand,	is	gaining	real	momentum	through	increasingly	 rapid	sales	growth,	gains	in	market	share	and	more	than	a	 doubling	of	its	profits	during	the	year.	Harlequin	and	Sanderson	 are	among	the	leading	suppliers	of	home	furnishings	to	 	 the	John	Lewis	Partnership.	Sanderson	has	taken	longer	 	 to	reinvigorate	than	we	anticipated	at	the	time	of	acquisition.	 However,	following	the	substantial	investment	in	product	of	 the	past	two	years,	significant	profit	growth	has	been	achieved	 this	year.	Following	the	appointment	of	a	new	design	director,	 and	the	refocusing	of	the	Zoffany	brand	back	to	its	core	values,	 progress	has	been	made	in	re-establishing	the	business	as	a	 leading	brand	at	the	premium	end	of	the	market.
In	line	with	the	Group’s	strategy	of	disposing	of	non-core	assets,	 the	sale	of	Borge	Holding	AS	was	successfully	completed	in	 June	2005.
Results
The	operating	profit	for	the	year	was	£5,018,000	(2005:	 operating	loss	£2,690,000).	Turnover	was	up	0.8%	from	 continuing	operations,	after	the	impact	of	the	sale	of	the	 Sanderson	retail	activity	and	the	exit	from	Anstey’s	low-margin	 Cirka	business	part	way	through	last	year.	The	operating	profit	 from	continuing	operations	was	£758,000	(2005:	operating	loss	 £3,062,000).	The	profit	on	ordinary	activities	before	tax	was	 £2,625,000	(2005:	loss	£807,000).	This	was	after	charging	the	 profit	and	loss	in	the	current	year	with	an	exceptional	loss	on	 the	sale	of	Borge	Holding	AS	of	£1,281,000,	which	included	 £1,908,000	for	goodwill	previously	written	off	to	reserves	and	 after	crediting	the	profit	and	loss	with	£4,076,000	from	the	 successful	outcome	of	the	pension	liability	reduction	exercise.	 Last	year’s	pre-tax	loss	of	£807,000	included	an	exceptional	 profit	of	£2,931,000	arising	from	sale	of	the	Warner	Archive	 	 and	freehold	property	in	Milton	Keynes.
The	profit	per	share	for	the	year	was	4.51p	(2005:	loss	per	 	 share	1.48p).
The	other	finance	charge	for	the	year	was	£174,000	 	 (2005:	£205,000)	as	a	result	of	the	improved	return	 	 on	assets	of	the	pension	scheme.
Pensions
During	 the	 year,	 the	 Group	 offered	 to	 buy	 out	 the	 right	 to	 	 non-statutory	 pension	 increases	 from	 its	 active	 and	 deferred	 pensioners.	 This	 proposal	 proved	 to	 be	 attractive	 to	 the	 members	 with	 a	 70%	 acceptance	 rate.	 This	 has	 resulted	 in	 a	 reduction	 in	 the	 FRS	 17	 liability	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 of	 £5,634,000	 and	 a	 benefit	 of	 £4,076,000	 in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss,	 disclosed	 as	 an	 exceptional	 operating	 item.	 Additionally,	 the	 Board	 decided	 to	 take	 this	 opportunity	 to	 adopt	 the	 most	 up-to-date	 mortality	 tables	 in	 the	 FRS	 17	 calculation,	 which	 caused	 the	 deficit	 to	 increase	 by	 £3,196,000.	 The	 Financial	 Review	 contains	 more	 details	 of	 the	 changes	 to	 our	 FRS	 17	 pension	 deficit.	 Since	the	year	end,	additional	acceptances	have	been	received	 from	the	members	of	the	pension	scheme	that	have	reduced	 the	pension	deficit	by	a	further	£800,000.
Lagoon Collection from Harlequin Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Reports and Accounts 2006 0 Walker	Greenbank	PLC	Annual	Reports	and	Accounts	2006 08 Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Reports and Accounts 2006 0
Balance sheet
The	net	assets	of	the	Group	have	increased	by	£1,527,000.	This	 has	been	primarily	driven	by	the	reduction	of	the	pension	 deficit	following	the	settlement	of	liabilities	which	improved	 the	net	assets	of	the	Group	by	£4,076,000,	offset	by	the	 adoption	of	the	most	up-to-date	mortality	tables,	with	 	 an	impact	of	£3,196,000.	The	Group	also	disposed	of	Borge	 Holdings	AS	during	the	year	for	net	proceeds	of	£1,498,000	 	 and	profit	on	sale	of	assets	of	£532,000.
The	Group’s	net	indebtedness	reduced	during	the	year	by	 £1,389,000	to	£9,357,000	(2005:	£10,746,000).	Cash	inflow	from	 operating	activities	was	£1,643,000	(2005:	outflow	£4,060,000)	 after	payments	to	pensioners	of	£950,000	as	part	of	the	 settlement	of	liabilities.	This	cash	inflow	from	operating	 activities	was	principally	driven	from	the	operating	profit,	 working	capital	inflows	and	the	Group’s	depreciation	charge	 being	significantly	higher	than	capital	expenditure.	The	 proceeds	of	the	sale	of	Borge	Holdings	AS	reduced	the	total	 level	of	borrowings.	 Dividend
The	Directors	do	not	recommend	the	payment	of	a	dividend	 	 at	this	point	in	the	Group’s	recovery.
People
During	the	period,	Peter	Harkness	resigned	as	a	Non-executive	 Director	after	more	than	four	years’	service.	In	July,	Alan	Dix	was	 appointed	Group	Finance	Director	after	spending	seven	 months	as	Finance	Director	Designate.	 I	would	like	to	take	this	opportunity	to	thank	all	our	employees	 whose	energy,	ability	and	commitment	have	helped	to	restore	 the	Group’s	fortunes.
Outlook
The	reorganisation	of	the	Group	and	the	integration	of	 Sanderson	is	now	fully	complete.	Our	factories	have	been	 restructured	and	are	now	both	trading	profitably.	The	 substantial	investment	in	product	and	creativity	of	our	design	 teams	have	helped	our	brands	to	gain	market	share	and	to	 grow	at	a	considerable	pace.
We	have	gone	a	long	way	to	addressing	the	structural	issues	 	 on	the	balance	sheet.	The	pension	reduction	liability	exercise	 has	already	reduced	the	deficit	by	a	significant	amount.	Our	 funding	facility	with	Burdale	Financial	Ltd,	part	of	the	Bank	 	 of	Ireland,	has	greatly	supported	us	in	creating	the	headroom	 within	the	business	to	invest	strongly	in	our	brands.
Our	brands	have	gathered	real	momentum	and	are	all	at	 	 an	exciting	point	in	their	development.	There	are	many	 opportunities	for	continuing	to	leverage	our	brand	portfolio	 through	additional	organic	growth,	expansion	through	 investment	in	the	contract	and	commercial	markets	and	 further	exposure	to	the	large	North	American	market.	The	 Group	is	also	alert	to	the	acquisition	opportunities	that	can	 arise	in	a	large,	fragmented	market	that	is	ripe	for	consolidation.	 The	start	of	the	current	financial	year	continues	to	see	all	parts	 of	the	business	trading	profitably,	considerably	ahead	of	last	 year	and	well	ahead	of	our	own	internal	projections.
We	are	confident	of	continuing	to	develop	the	Group	into	an	 exciting,	cash-generative	and	highly	profitable	business.	Your	 Board	views	the	future	with	increasing	confidence	and	looks	 forward	to	delivering	substantial	shareholder	value.
Ian Kirkham
Chairman
10	April	2006
Chaumont Prints, Clarenbridge and Cantu Weaves from Zoffany Otterlie Weave from Morris & Co.
Aida Wallpaper Collection from Sanderson
