 W alker Greenbank PLC
Chief Executive’s Review
10
Strategy
It is extremely pleasing to report that our continued commitment to 
product investment, design excellence and manufacturing capability 
has led to the best trading performance by the Group in more than 
ten years.
Whilst mindful of the uncertainties in the global economy we 
remain committed to the five key elements of our growth strategy, 
which comprise: 
Geographic expansion – to focus on the distribution and  −
marketing of our brands in the European and North American 
markets where our Group is currently immature relative to its 
peers, and to invest in the exciting growth opportunity for luxury 
interior goods that presents itself in the Rest of the World;
Organic growth – to continue to grow our influential mid market  −
brands in the UK retail market through expansion of the product 
range and extension of their market positions;
Licensing income – to profit from the global recognition of the  −
Group’s heritage brands, Sanderson and Morris & Co, and the 
contemporary design excellence of the Harlequin brand by 
exploiting the considerable product licensing opportunities 
that exist; 
Contract sales – to drive the expansion of the unique opportunity  −
our contracts business presents through further investment in 
contract specific product supported by the strength of our brand 
names, our ability to competitively source product and our 
manufacturing capability, predominantly focusing at the mid to 
upper end of the contract market; and
Acquisitions – to evaluate acquisition opportunities that fit with  −
our current brand portfolio and further advance our earnings 
growth ambitions.
Overview
Following two disruptive years due to the global recession, I am 
pleased to report we are now fully back on track and successfully 
delivering our strategy for growth.
Retail revenues in our non UK markets have grown 9.3%, which has 
been led by growth of 21.1% in the Rest of the World, particularly 
driven by the Far East, Australasia and emerging South American 
markets. European revenues have grown 3.2%, within this Eastern 
European and Scandinavian markets have made significant progress 
but have been held back by flat Western European revenues. North 
American retail revenues have grown 11.9% compared with 
particularly poor comparators last year but some isolated regional 
markets in the USA continued to be difficult. 
Our continued investment in design, marketing and depth of product 
launch, supported by our commitment to customer service through 
increased stock holding, has helped grow our UK retail business a 
Strength
& 
Opportunity
Chief Executive’s Review
With the growing strength of our balance sheet we 
remain committed to investment to further develop 
the business and are firmly focussed on 
geographic expansion
John Sach Group Chief Executive W alker Greenbank PLC
Chief Executive’s Review
11
further 13.1% to £27.96 million. The success of our investment in 
product and marketing is ably demonstrated by Sanderson, which 
during its 150th anniversary year delivered strong revenue growth 
of 17.2%.
Global Licensing income has grown 30%. Our overseas licence income 
has grown strongly driven in particular by Japan and Australasia. 
Having addressed issues with our UK bed-linen licencee in the latter 
part of the previous year bed-linen revenues have grown to record 
levels. The luxury and heritage nature of the Group’s brands has led 
to the signing of a number of new licence arrangements.
Our contract revenues declined slightly during the year. This was 
due to a relatively quiet market and two major contracts last year. 
We remain committed to and confident about the potential of this 
market segment and are delighted with our recent announcement 
of the award of a substantial contract in the Middle East.
 
Manufacturing for third party customers has benefited from 
customers restocking in the early part of the year and an overall 
strengthening market for wallpaper and printed fabrics. We continue 
to invest in our production capability and customer support and this 
helped grow annual revenues 27.8% to £15.25 million. 
The Brands
Walker Greenbank has continued its investment in extensive product 
development and commitment to customer service within its four 
premium interior furnishing brands. The brands have achieved 
growth of 11.7% over last year. Following the significant marketing 
exposure during its 150th anniversary year, Sanderson has led the 
way with growth of 17.2%. The market’s continued demand for 
colour and design has seen our fabric printing and wallpaper sales 
grow 18.6% and 11.6% respectively, nearly all of which is sourced 
from our own manufacturing resource. Sales of woven fabrics, which 
are sourced externally, have grown 9.8%. 
The Brands’ operating profits before exceptional items grew 14.4% 
to £5.28 million with the investment in product and marketing at 
record levels. 
Harlequin
Harlequin has grown its overall revenues 8.7% over the same period 
last year, maintaining its position as the UK’s leading mid-market 
contemporary brand. Its export markets have grown the fastest, driven 
by particularly strong growth in the Far East, Russia, the Middle East 
and Sweden. Harlequin continues to develop its licensing income 
stream from a variety of products and leads the branded interior 
furnishings offer within the John Lewis Partnership. The year has also 
seen a substantial investment in the expansion of Harlequin’s design 
studio which will add additional scope to broaden its product range.
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating the Morris & Co brand
There has been particular investment both in product and marketing 
during Sanderson’s 150th anniversary year. A retrospective collection 
named Vintage Fabrics and Wallpapers, which reinterprets iconic 
Sanderson designs from 1890s to the 1980s, was launched. We also 
held a successful exhibition in London, ‘Very Sanderson – 150 years 
of English Decoration’ which attracted considerable interest from 
the design community, and also collaborated on a book, ‘Sanderson: 
the Essence of English Decoration’. These, and other activities, 
have raised the profile of the Sanderson brand, which is widely 
acknowledged as the world’s most recognised interior decoration 
brand. Revenues grew 17.2% to £17.86 million, carrying on the 
momentum gained in the first half with strong growth both in the 
UK and export markets. Morris & Co will be celebrating its 150th 
anniversary in 2011.
Frangipani by Zoffany W alker Greenbank PLC
Chief Executive’s Review
12
Zoffany
Zoffany is positioned at the upper end of the premium market and has 
seen overall revenues grow by 8.8% to £9.44 million driven by the 
success of its latest collections and a relatively buoyant UK market. 
Export markets in total are ahead of last year helped by strong 
performances in the Far East, in particular China, Taiwan, and 
Australasia but restrained by weak European and US markets. 
Overseas
USA
The US revenue has grown 7.5%, equating to 5.0% in constant 
currency, over weak comparatives last year. In general, encouraging 
progress has been made in the majority of our key regional markets 
but held back by the poor performance of Los Angeles, Atlanta and 
Dallas showroom partners. We have addressed two of these issues 
with changes in our showroom partners in the early part of the current 
year and remain confident about the medium term potential of the 
North American market.
Europe
Our French distribution business encouragingly grew 11.3% 
following investment in our Paris showroom and greater 
management focus. 
The Group’s Italian distribution business in Rome for Harlequin and 
Zoffany was sold in December 2009 to B&B Distribuzionne in Milan, 
which has distributed Sanderson successfully for many years. Since that 
disposal significant growth has been achieved in the Italian market. 
Manufacturing
Our manufacturing business has performed very strongly with 
high demand throughout the year. The business has benefited 
from customers restocking in the early part of the year followed by 
increasing investment in new collections as market confidence grew 
throughout the year. Total revenue increased by 30% to £28.78 
million with growth evenly spread between third party customers 
and our own brands. Strong factory throughput and increasing 
factory efficiency following significant capital investment has led 
to a near fourfold increase in profitability.
Anstey
Anstey, our wallpaper printing business, had a very successful year 
with revenues growing by 36% to £13.03 million. Sales in the UK are 
up 38% and sales to our export markets are up 82%. This has been 
driven by third party growth of 42% helped by new customers 
commissioning wallpaper at our factory and supported by internal 
brand growth of 31%.
The investment made in a scatter machine in the first half of the year 
has given us the capability to add glass beads and other particles to 
wallpaper, offering our customers a wider range of exciting new 
textured effects. This was commissioned in the second half and 
Harlequin led the way with the recent launch of the Momentum 
collection utilising this technique. Third party customers are also 
progressing with design developments.
Standfast
Standfast, our fabric printing factory, achieved strong revenue 
growth of 26% to £15.75 million. Third party revenue grew 20% 
broadly split between home and export markets. Revenue from our 
own brands grew 35% following the continued revival of interest in 
printed fabrics. This is ably demonstrated by the success of Harlequin 
and Sanderson print collections launched in the past 12 months 
which are proving to be the most successful for a number of years. 
Standfast has also benefited from new customers printing with the 
factory for the first time.
 
Standfast is currently commissioning its third digital printer to meet 
the increasing demand for digital printing, which allows customers 
the flexibility of high value, short print runs and large scale designs. 
The continued demand for digital printing will lead to further 
investment to increase production speeds and capacity. 
Original artworks held in the Archive W alker Greenbank PLC
Chief Executive’s Review
13
Summary
Our on-going investment in product design, marketing, customer 
service and manufacturing capability has helped us deliver the 
strongest revenues and profits for over ten years. With the growing 
strength of our balance sheet we remain committed to this 
investment programme to further develop the business. 
 
Our focus is firmly on geographic expansion and on the exploitation 
of our luxury interior brands. Our objective is to achieve global 
revenue growth and to benefit from an enhanced return on sales
through the operational gearing in the business. We remain 
confident of continued progress.
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
18 May 2011
From the Morris & Co archives
From the Morris & Co archives The Archives
