 Walker Greenbank PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
10
Chief Executive’s  
Review
Strategy
Despite the turbulent economic conditions in 
which we are trading, we remain committed 
to the five key elements of our growth strategy 
which is supported by the Group’s cash 
generation and a robust balance sheet.  
In addition we benefit from world renowned 
brands all of which can be expected to  
return to strong growth on any upturn in  
the trading environment. The key elements  
of the strategy comprise:
UK growth – to continue to exploit   >
the medium term organic growth 
opportunities that exist for our Group in  
the UK retail market.
Geographic expansion – to invest in  >
marketing and distribution in the North 
American market, where our Group is 
currently immature relative to our peers, 
and to focus on the distribution and 
marketing of our brands in Europe and the 
Rest of the World, where again as a Group 
we are presently underdeveloped.
Contract sales – to drive the expansion of  >
our developing contracts business through 
further investment in people and contract 
specific product supported by the strength 
of our brand names and our manufacturing 
capability, predominantly focusing at the 
mid to upper end of the contract market;
Licensing income – to exploit the global  >
recognition of the Sanderson and Morris & 
Co. brand names and to develop further  
the licensing opportunities that exist for 
Harlequin in the UK. 
Acquisitions – to evaluate acquisition  >
opportunities that may fit with our current 
brand portfolio and potentially provide 
synergistic and earnings enhancing 
opportunities. 
Overview
Our brand sales have remained flat in the UK 
retail market. In mainland Europe, retail sales 
have grown 10% due to the strength of the 
euro, although this equates to a 4% decline in 
constant currency. In the Rest of the World 
sales have grown by 16%. Sales in our US 
retail business, which remains a relatively 
small part of our Group, have increased 3% 
due to the strength of the dollar, but fallen 7% 
in constant currency. Within our brand 
segment our Contract business continues to 
benefit from strong investment and has 
delivered 17% year on year growth. Our 
licence business has grown 21% reflecting the 
strength of our brands and their potential to 
stretch into adjacent categories. Finally, our 
manufacturing units have suffered from the 
overall decline in the market with their third 
party sales falling 9%.
The brands
Total sales have grown year on year by 5% 
reflecting no growth in sales in the second 
half due to a much tougher trading 
environment, sales having been up 10% at the 
Collection - Pasha
Design - Pasha
Hana, Options 9, Sanderson Walker Greenbank PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
11
Overview
brands, the factories print for third party 
customers.
Anstey
Anstey continues to benefit from the demand 
for wallpaper and its unique position as 
market leader in the UK for wallpaper 
manufacture at the mid to premium end of the 
market. Overall sales have grown year on year 
by 4%, sales having been up at the half year 
by 5%. Sales to Group company brands have 
grown 5% representing 51% of the overall 
sales, whilst external third party sales have 
grown 2%, reflecting the relative success of 
our brands in difficult markets. Margins have 
fallen slightly due to increased energy costs 
and overall profitability has slightly improved 
over the same period last year. We remain 
focused on improving factory efficiency and 
service to our customers. 
Standfast
Standfast has suffered particularly difficult 
trading conditions with overall sales falling 9% 
over the same period last year, sales were 
down 3% at the half year. Sales to Group 
company brands which represent 41% of the 
overall sales were up 3%, whilst external third 
party sales fell 16%, suggesting our Group 
brands are performing well in very difficult 
market conditions. Standfast has suffered 
margin decline due to less production 
throughput in the factory and increased 
energy costs, two factors which combined 
with the sales fall has led to a loss in the year.
At the beginning of the second half of the year 
management took action to reduce the cost 
base of this business in order to reflect the 
lower level of volume activity, resulting in a 
redundancy cost of £146,000.
Summary
All of our brands continue to perform 
competitively in a difficult market. The 
considerable investment we have made in 
product and marketing in recent years places 
us in a strong position to withstand the 
current economic environment and ultimately 
exploit the continuing and new business 
opportunities that exist within the Group.  
We remain confident about the progress the 
Group will make in the medium term given  
the global recognition of its brands and the 
robustness of the Group’s finances.
John Sach 
Group Chief Executive
17 June 2009
 
half year. Over recent years we have strongly 
increased our investment in our product 
launches across all our brands and this has 
helped protect our market share in a much 
tougher trading environment. We have a 
strong portfolio of brands covering a wide 
variety of market segments in the mid to 
upper end of the interior furnishings market, 
supported by a wide offering of product. We 
are however conscious of the tougher market 
in which we operate and, going forward, will 
keep tight control of the amount of product 
we launch to reduce cost while the current 
economic environment prevails. 
Harlequin
Despite increasingly tough market conditions 
in the second half, it is pleasing to report that 
Harlequin has managed to maintain its sales 
at the same level as last year having been 7% 
up at the half year and to continue its position 
as the leading mid-market contemporary 
brand in the UK. Overall both the UK market 
and export markets were essentially flat. 
However, within our export markets, Europe 
was down year on year by 7% and by 14% in 
constant currency. This was offset by growth 
in the emerging markets of the Far East, 
Middle East and Australia where overall sales 
were up 21%. Woven product continued to 
grow, up 4% on the same period last year, 
whilst wallpaper sales declined by 4% and 
printed fabrics declined by 8%.
Continued commitment and investment in our 
Contract business has helped grow year on 
year sales by 19%. Harlequin has also grown 
its licensing income principally with the 
development of a range of product lines in  
the John Lewis Partnership. More than half of 
Harlequin’s sales are from woven product 
which is sourced primarily from Europe. For 
this product category the gross margins have 
declined due to the strengthening of the euro 
which has led to a fall in profits.
Zoffany
Having established Zoffany as a leading brand 
at the premium end of the market and having 
invested heavily in new product over recent 
years, we reported last year that the design 
community had shown increasing interest  
in the older collections of Zoffany and that  
this had reinvigorated the sales of those 
collections. This year we have experienced  
an accelerating decline of those older 
collections but in their place our newer 
collections have performed well. 
Overall year on year sales have declined 1% 
having been up 7% at the half year. UK sales 
declined 2% but export markets continued to 
see overall growth of 5%, with Europe 
growing 6%, representing an 11% decline in 
constant currency and the Rest of the World 
up 5% helped by strong growth from the 
Middle East and Australasia. Woven fabric, 
which now represents more than half of 
Zoffany’s sales, grew 2% with both wallpaper 
and printed fabrics having declined by 1% 
each. Zoffany’s Contract business has grown 
year on year 2%. The strong euro has led to a 
decline in margins and this combined with 
additional stock provisioning due to the faster 
decline of the older collections has led to a 
reduction in profits. 
 
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating 
the Morris & Co. brand
Significant investment in product and 
marketing over recent years has helped 
Sanderson to exploit the unrivalled global 
recognition of the Sanderson and Morris & 
Co. brand names and to grow its sales this 
year by 15%, having been up 25% at the half 
year. The growth continues to be broad-
based with all geographic markets growing 
strongly. The UK market delivered year on 
year sales growth of 9% whilst overseas 
markets were up 31%. This impressive export 
sales growth was driven by European markets 
up 32%, 17% in constant currency and the 
Rest of the World up 28%. The growth has 
been led by woven fabric, up by 22%, with 
wallpaper up 19% and printed fabrics up 4%. 
The growth has been supported by strong 
progress in its Contract business up 34%. 
Gross margins improved as the strengthening 
euro benefited margins with Sanderson selling 
more in Europe than it purchases. This margin 
gain combined with the sales growth has 
helped to improve profits significantly.
Overseas
USA
Sales in our US business have increased year 
on year by 7% however they have fallen in 
constant currency by 4% due to the 
strengthening dollar. Sales at the half year in 
local currency were broadly flat. The US still 
forms a relatively small part of the overall 
Group but we firmly believe in the medium to 
long term potential for the Group in this 
market. However economic conditions are 
becoming increasingly challenging and whilst 
this prevails we will remain tightly focused on 
the level of investment in marketing, 
patterning and sample support. Lower sales 
have led to a continued loss.
Europe
The Group’s distribution businesses in Rome, 
for Zoffany and Harlequin, and in Paris, for 
Zoffany and Sanderson, remain relatively small. 
Both these markets saw challenging trading 
conditions but the appointment of an 
experienced Export development director 
towards the end of last year brought 
improvements to both operations. Combined 
revenues have increased by 14%, representing 
a decline of 3% in constant currency.
Manufacturing
We have two freehold printing facilities in the 
UK: Anstey, our wallpaper factory in 
Loughborough; and Standfast, our fabric 
printing factory in Lancaster. Both factories 
offer highly specialised printing, and their UK 
location brings benefits including the ability to 
print very short runs and easy accessibility for 
UK designers to visit the factories during the 
printing process. In addition to printing the 
wallpaper and fabrics for the Group’s own 
