 16
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
JOHN SACH
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Our ongoing investment in 
product design, marketing, 
customer service and 
manufacturing capability 
has helped us deliver excellent 
results during the year and it 
is particularly pleasing that 
39% of brand sales are 
now international.
Our opening of the Shenzhen 
showroom in China. 17
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategy
I am pleased to report that the Group continues to make signiﬁcant 
progress with the implementation of its strategy, which comprises:
 – International expansion – to focus on the distribution and marketing 
of our brands in the European and North American markets where 
we see signiﬁcant potential to grow our market share and to invest in 
the exciting growth opportunities in other international markets;
 – Market penetration – to continue to grow our brands in the UK and 
internationally through extension of market positions;
 – Lifestyle product extension – to proﬁt from the global recognition 
of the Group’s heritage brands, Sanderson and Morris & Co., and 
the contemporary design excellence of the Harlequin brand, by 
extending the product range and exploiting the product licensing 
opportunities; 
 – Extending manufacturing capability – to continue to invest in the 
latest printing techniques and to promote the considerable 
opportunities of being a quality UK manufacturer; and
 – Acquisitions – to continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that 
ﬁt with our current brand portfolio with the objective of further 
advancing our earnings growth.
Overview
I am extremely pleased to report that we have continued to make 
progress on our record year last year with further growth in sales 
and proﬁts.
Our Brands have beneﬁted from the continued investment in design, 
marketing and product launch and have increased sales 4.6% to 
£33.8 million in what has been a challenging UK market. Internationally 
the Brands sales have grown 1 1% to £22.0 million. 
Europe as a whole has grown 10%, led by strong growth of 22% in 
Eastern Europe and 15% in Scandinavia particularly driven by Russia 
and Sweden. Despite the Euro zone difﬁculties trading was resilient with 
sales growth of 6.2% in Western Europe and encouragingly our own 
business in France has grown 23% following showroom investment 
and increased management focus.
Our business in the US is showing signs of improvement and is slightly 
up for the year as a whole in reportable currency and up 4.4% in local 
currency having been ﬂat at the half year.
Following a number of business initiatives, our other international 
markets have grown 28% to £5.64 million. This was led by growth in 
the Middle East of 105%, helped by a signiﬁcant hotel contract in Dubai, 
and growth of 22% in the Far East with the signiﬁcant Morris & Co. 
launch in the year helping Japan grow sales 46% and growth of 13% 
in China where our distributor has recently opened a showroom in 
Shenzhen predominately dedicated to our brands.
Global Licensing income has grown 1 1 % to £1.59 million with both UK 
and overseas growing strongly. In the UK our established bed linen 
licensee, Bedeck, achieved signiﬁcant growth. Amongst our overseas 
licensees, our Japanese licensees did particularly well beneﬁting from the 
Morris & Co. 150th anniversary and products being launched into China. 
The luxury and heritage nature of the Group’s brands has led to the 
signing of new licence arrangements such as Portmeirion tableware, 
Blueprint stationery, Elstead Lighting and Brink & Campman rugs.
Manufacturing has had another successful year. The activity levels in 
the second half of the year reduced from the high levels seen in the ﬁrst 
half, when manufacturing beneﬁted from customers restocking in the 
early months. Annual sales were ﬂat at £28.7 million with a small 
improvement in proﬁtability. 
The Brands
Our commitment to invest in the strength and depth of our product 
range and our attention to customer service has ensured another 
successful year for our four interior furnishings brands that make up 
the Brands segment.
In March 2012 a new brand, Scion, was launched which is a young, 
contemporary brand aimed at aspirational and fashion aware customers 
and stretches the reach of our brands into new market areas. 
The Brands achieved growth in sales of 7 .3% over last year to 
£57 .4 million. The Brands’ operating proﬁts before exceptional items 
grew 14% to £5.37 million with continued substantial investment in 
product and marketing. 
Brands UK
Harlequin
Harlequin has grown its overall sales 9.2% over the same period last 
year to £22.4 million, maintaining its position as the UK’s leading 
mid-market contemporary brand. The growth has been driven by 
strong international sales led by particularly strong growth in the Far 
East, Middle East and Sweden. Harlequin launched an innovative 
collection with Clarissa Hulse during the year and revenues exceeded 
expectations. Harlequin continues to develop its licensing income and 
launched a range of lighting in conjunction with Elstead Lighting. 
We were particularly pleased with the performance of Harlequin’s 
Momentum collection, which has become the brand’s biggest selling 
range in recent years.
Our refurbished showroom 
in Rue de Mail, Paris. 18
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating the 
Morris & Co. brand
There has been particular investment both in product and marketing 
during the 150th anniversary year of Morris & Co. which was marked 
by special UK exhibitions at several key Morris houses including 
Wightwick Manor, Standen and Red House and unique events in over 
20 international markets including major seminars as far aﬁeld as Tokyo 
and Los Angeles. These, and other activities, have raised the proﬁle of 
Morris & Co. and, combined with the global recognition of the Sanderson 
brand, have helped increase sales by 8.2% to £19.0 million. The growth 
has been driven by international sales with particularly strong growth in 
Sweden, Russia and Japan, an important market for Morris & Co.
Zoffany
Zoffany is positioned at the upper end of the premium market and sales 
have been much more challenging in the second half. Overall sales 
grew by 3.3% to £9. 10 million, this has been supported by strong 
international performance up 14.9% over last year with particularly 
strong performances in Scandinavia, Russia, the Far East and the 
Middle East where there were speciﬁc contract wins.
Brands Overseas
Our Overseas segment comprises our two wholly-owned subsidiaries 
in New York and Paris.
Following two extremely challenging years in the US market, the 
second half of the year has shown signs of recovery helping grow 
revenues for the full year by 4.4% in local currency, but ﬂat in reportable 
currency. This performance has been helped by key changes to our 
showroom partners in certain states and investment in a new back 
ofﬁce in New Jersey. We are committed to this market where we 
remain conﬁdent about the medium-term potential.
Despite challenging conditions in Western Europe, our French 
distribution business has grown 23% greatly helped by increased 
management focus and investment in remodelling our Paris showroom. 
Manufacturing
Following an extremely strong performance last year it is pleasing 
to report that our manufacturing segment has maintained both 
overall revenues and proﬁtability helped by strong third party and 
international growth. 
The striking Folia collection 
was produced by the Harlequin 
Design Studio and was launched 
in January 2012. 19
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Anstey
Anstey, our wallpaper printing business, grew overall sales by 3.5% to 
£13.5 million. Third party sales in the UK were up 1 1% and third party 
export sales were up 32%. Internal sales to our own brands were down 
due to the timing and volume of product launches. 
The investment made in a scatter machine in the ﬁrst half of the year 
has given us the capability to add glass beads and other particles to 
wallpaper offering our customers a wider range of exciting new textured 
effects. This was commissioned in the second half and Harlequin led the 
way with the recent launch of the Momentum collection utilising this 
technique. Third party customers are also progressing with design 
developments. We continue to invest and to innovate our manufacturing 
capability and commissioned our ﬁrst digital printer early this year.
Standfast
Standfast, our fabric printing factory, had a small decline in overall 
annual sales of 3.7% to £15.2 million. Third party sales grew 5.8% with 
export sales growing strongly, by 32%, and UK sales growing 1.9%. 
Sales to our own brands declined 16% following a very strong launch 
of new print collections last year.
Standfast continues to invest in digital printing due to increasing 
demand and commissioned its fourth machine during the year. Digital 
printers allow customers the ﬂexibility of high value, short print runs and 
large scale designs. Further signiﬁcant investment in digital printing will 
continue to be made in order to satisfy the demand for this type of 
product. There was a signiﬁcant investment in the capacity and 
extension of the ﬂatbed printing capability during the year.
Summary
Our ongoing investment in product design, marketing, customer 
service and manufacturing capability has helped us deliver excellent 
results during the year and it is particularly pleasing that 39% of our 
brand sales are now international.
We intend to continue to exploit our brand assets internationally and 
remain conﬁdent of continued progress during the current year 
and beyond.
JOHN SACH
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
15 MAY 2012
The Zoffany Akita Weave and 
Vinyl Wallpaper collections 
which take their inspiration 
from Japanese craftwork.
