 WALKER GREENBANK PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007  The year to January 2007 was a period of excellent 
progress in which we have consolidated the 
recovery of the Group and created a platform  
for future growth. Much work has been done  
to strengthen our financial position and this  
will allow us to take advantage of the 
opportunities ahead.
Strategy
Our strategy is to deliver earnings growth  
and to maximise the return to shareholders.  
We are driving our brands’ organic growth, 
expanding our contracts division, exploiting 
manufacturing opportunities and negotiating 
further licensing arrangements. 
There is significant organic growth potential in 
our brands: with Harlequin, we are expanding  
the product offer and aiming to achieve greater 
presence in overseas markets, specifically the 
North American market where the brand to date 
has had limited exposure; with Sanderson and 
Morris & Co., we are exploiting the strength of 
the brands’ global recognition through continued 
product investment and licensing arrangements; 
and with Zoffany, we will continue with the 
progress already made in restoring the business to 
its deserved pre-eminent position as a premium 
brand through enhanced focus on Zoffany’s core 
and traditional design values.
We are driving the expansion of our contracts 
division, with increased investment in contract-
specific product, supported by the strength of the 
brand names and our manufacturing capability.
We will evaluate acquisition opportunities in  
our highly fragmented market. However, any 
acquisition would have to fit with the current 
brand portfolio and provide synergistic and 
earnings enhancing opportunities.
Chief Executive’s Review
The year to 31 January 2007 was a period of excellent progress 
in which we have consolidated the recovery of the Group and 
created a platform for future growth.
The Brands
Harlequin
The Harlequin brand has continued the 
impressive sales growth seen in the first half of 
the year, achieving a year-on-year increase of 42% 
and marking the second consecutive year of 
substantial growth. Growth in 2007 was across  
all product categories – wallpaper, printed fabric 
and woven fabric – and across all markets, with 
export sales up strongly at 45% and the UK up 
40%. This performance further strengthens 
Harlequin’s position as the leading mid-market 
contemporary brand in the UK. Harlequin 
continues to expand its product launches and  
all of its recent collections have performed 
extremely well. Two of the Harlequin wallpaper 
collections now have annualised sales in excess  
of £1 million. Sales to the USA have doubled 
following the successful re-launch into certain 
states last year, expanding our presence to  
15 states in total.
The continued investment in design capability 
has delivered excellent product, which supported 
by strong marketing, sampling and patterning has 
fuelled the 42% sales growth. Coupled with 
improved margins, this has led to an almost 
three-fold increase in profits compared with  
the same period last year.
Zoffany
The process, begun in 2005, of re-enforcing 
Zoffany’s position as one of the UK’s leading 
premium brands is taking effect. Having brought 
an intense focus to its core and traditional design 
values we have seen sales growth in the second 
half of the year for the first time in four years. 
Overall sales for the year are slightly up on the 
same period last year with UK underlying sales  
in line with last year following an adjustment  
for a large contract order to the Intercontinental 
London Park Lane Hotel in the early part of last 
year. Export sales are up 13% on the same period 
last year. 
Overall margins are slightly reduced compared 
with last year due to the higher proportion of 
export activity. This, combined with a planned 
increase in marketing expenditure, has led to 
Zoffany breaking even this year in line with 
internal expectations. We fully expect the 
business to return to profitability in the  
current year.
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating the 
Morris & Co. brand
Following increased investment in product over 
the past two years, we are now experiencing 
increasing momentum in Sanderson’s sales 
growth. Sales are up 13% compared with last year. 
As with Harlequin, the sales growth has been 
broad based showing growth in all major markets 
but driven by a strong UK performance. 
Licensing contribution grew 7%, with the key 
markets of Japan and Australasia performing well, 
helped by the continued development of the 
Sanderson and Morris & Co. names across a 
number of product categories. We continue to 
invest for the future in the key areas of product 
development and marketing, both of which  
we believe will deliver strong profit growth in  
the future.
Manufacturing
Anstey
Anstey has established itself as the market leader 
in the UK in wallpaper manufacture at the mid  
to premium end of the market. With the interior 
design trend now moving strongly towards 
wallpaper in this sector of the market Anstey has 
increased overall sales by 16%. External third party 
sales have grown 23% as more of its customers  WALKER GREENBANK PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 WALKER GREENBANK PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007  have sought to satisfy the consumer demand  
for wallpaper. Group sales have grown 11%.  
This higher activity assisted by continued 
improvement in factory efficiencies and tightly 
controlled overheads has enabled the business  
to generate a return on sales compared with a 
break-even position last year.
Standfast
Standfast has continued to win market share and 
achieved growth in third party business of 14%. 
This together with the impact of the success of 
the Group’s brands has helped Standfast achieve 
overall sales growth of 19%. There has been a 
significant increase in investment during the year 
both in terms of capital equipment and the level 
of preventive maintenance to help mitigate the 
impact of increases in energy costs. The higher 
activity and improved factory loadings have 
increased efficiencies enabling Standfast to 
generate improved return on sales.
Overseas
USA
Sales in the USA are down 9%, but this is primarily 
due to the exit of lower margin third-party 
business during the second half of last year. 
Sanderson and Morris & Co. sales have grown by 
11% with particular benefit arising from the latest 
Morris & Co. collection. Zoffany sales declined by 
12% primarily due to fewer significant contract 
orders realised in the year. The re-launch of the 
Harlequin brand last year has helped achieve 
more than a doubling of revenue.
Margins have improved with the exit from the 
lower margin third-party business during the 
second half of last year. However, the overall 
result was a loss due to increased investment in 
patterning, sampling and marketing during the 
year, all of which were clearly focused in support 
of our medium to long term belief in our brands’ 
potential in this important market.
Europe
The distribution businesses for Zoffany and 
Harlequin in Rome, and Zoffany and Sanderson  
in Paris are relatively small but have grown their 
combined sales by 22%, returning a small profit 
compared with a loss last year.
Summary
We are delighted to have built on last year’s 
substantial achievements through further 
progress delivered across all areas of our business, 
from our product collections to our balance 
sheet. We have created a solid platform for  
future progress and have identified significant 
opportunities for growth through leveraging our 
brand assets. The organic potential of our brands, 
underlined by the sales growth at Harlequin and 
more recently Sanderson, clearly demonstrates 
our ability to create shareholder value and we 
look forward to delivering further progress in  
the year ahead. 
John Sach
Chief Executive Officer
16 April 2007
Strategy
•  Increase earnings growth and to  
maximise the return to shareholders.
• Drive our brands’ organic growth.
•  Expand our contracts division, exploiting  
manufacturing opportunities.
• Negotiate further licensing arrangements.
• Invest and grow our North American Business.
Makeda Collection by Harlequin.
