 02
Walker Greenbank PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our business  
at a glance
Our Brands
Collection - Identity
Design - Perception
Harlequin
Harlequin is a core supplier of high quality, design lead 
collections to the mid to premium end of the worldwide 
furnishings market.
Sanderson
Founded in 1860 and granted a Royal warrant in 1923, 
Sanderson is one of the most renowned brands in interiors 
worldwide, offering classic, inspirational product often based 
on documents from its extensive archive. It is aimed at the mid 
to upper end of the interiors market.
Morris & Co.
The Morris & Co. business has a heritage that dates back to 
the mid 19th century when it was founded by William Morris, 
the acclaimed designer. Its unique heritage is preserved  
in the modern interpretation of its high quality fabrics  
and wallcoverings.
Zoffany
Zoffany offers a range of products of the highest quality 
including wallpaper, fabrics, trimmings, carpets, paint and 
furniture. The designs are inspired by the rich traditions of  
the past but look equally at home in contemporary interiors.
Walker Greenbank PLC is a luxury interior furnishings group  
of companies which design, manufacture, market and distribute 
wallcoverings, furnishing fabrics and associated products for  
the consumer market. 03
Overview
Walker Greenbank PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Anstey
Anstey Wallpaper Company is the world’s leading 
specialist commission printer. The business operates 
at the premium end of the market, offering a unique 
combination of design, printing and finishing of 
wallcoverings by gravure, rotary, flexo, surface,  
screen and hand block printing methods. As well  
as producing for the Walker Greenbank brands it  
also produces for third party customers.
Standfast
Standfast & Barracks is situated in Lancaster and  
was bought by Walker Greenbank in March 2000.  
The business is acknowledged as a worldwide leader 
in its field. Standfast specialises in high quality volume 
vat printing and dyeing, and rotary screen-printing of 
fabrics. Barracks specialises in flatbed printing, 
concentrating on very high specification for the 
exclusive furnishing and apparel markets, printing  
on a wide range of fabrics.
USA
Our distribution in the USA is carried out by Walker 
Greenbank Inc. utilising third party showrooms 
supported by Walker Greenbank Inc. offices based  
in New Jersey and our own showroom in Manhattan.
France
Our distribution in France is by Arthur Sanderson 
France through a network of sales agents, our own 
sales force and a showroom in Rue du Mail, Paris.
Italy
We have a showroom and offices in Rome utilising 
sales agents throughout the country.
Our Manufacturing Our Distribution
Oakwood, Options 9, 
Sanderson.
Collection - Iznik  
Design - Kasuri & Pasha 04
Walker Greenbank PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our brands
www.harlequin.uk.com
Despite increasingly tough market conditions in the 
second half, Harlequin has managed to maintain its 
sales at the same level as last year having been 7% up 
at the half year, and to continue its position as the 
leading mid-market contemporary brand in the UK.
UK and Export markets flat >
Growth in emerging markets of the Far East, Middle East  >
and Australia
Contract sales up 19% >
Collection - Iznik
Design - Kasuri & Pasha
Collection - Tamika
Design - Kimiko 05
Overview
Walker Greenbank PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
www.sanderson-uk.com
Significant investment in product and marketing 
over recent years has helped Sanderson to exploit 
the unrivalled global recognition of the 
Sanderson and Morris & Co brand names and to 
grow its sales this year by 15%, having been up 
25% at the half year.
UK growth 9% >
Export markets up 31% >
Contract sales up 34% >
Chrysanthemum,  
Morris Volume V, Morris & Co.
Dandelion Clocks, 
Options 9, Sanderson.
