 9 / Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 
Chief Executive’s Q&A
 
How have conditions been in your markets during  
the past year?
We grew our sales even though market conditions  
were demanding. This is encouraging because what it 
demonstrates is that with an improvement in market 
conditions we could grow our sales and proﬁts signiﬁcantly. 
 
How have international markets performed?
We achieved sales growth in many of our overseas markets. 
The US, where the economic environment is beginning to 
improve, was a particular highlight. We saw signiﬁcant US 
growth for the ﬁrst time since 2008 with sales up 18% in 
reportable currency and up 17% at constant currency. 
 
Is the US a major opportunity for Walker Greenbank?
We see huge potential for all of our brands in the US. We’ve 
had a presence there for many years but have only recently 
been in a ﬁnancial position to focus on growing our market 
share. We are extending our New York showroom among 
other initiatives to grow US sales. 
 
Can you continue to grow in the UK?
Whilst we already have signiﬁcant market share in the UK, we 
can continue to grow our sales through launching products 
in new areas of the marketplace by stretching our brands into 
new price points or launching new brands aimed at speciﬁc 
consumers. We would also consider acquiring brands if they 
were complementary to our existing portfolio.
 
What were your most signiﬁcant initiatives during  
the year for future growth?
We launched an entirely new brand, Scion, aimed at  
younger customers and we also launched a competitively 
priced extension to the Sanderson brand, called Sanderson 
Home. Both of these new brands have been well received 
and have taken the Company into new areas of the home 
furnishings marketplace.
 
How much progress are you making in emerging markets?
Emerging markets are a very exciting opportunity for Walker 
Greenbank because of our brands’ unique combination of 
heritage, design and UK manufacturing. Our sales to BRIC 
countries last year grew 14% to £2.8 million but grew very 
rapidly, in percentage terms, in India and Brazil up 62% and 
274% respectively.
 
Can you exploit the potential of your brands beyond 
wallpaper and fabric?
Many of our brands’ designs have huge ﬂexibility for use on 
other products. Our licensed range now includes bedlinen, 
towelling, rugs, tableware, lighting and stationery. Licensing 
income was up 18% last year and we continue to identify 
opportunities for new licensing arrangements. 
 
How has manufacturing performed during the year?
Our factories achieved record sales and proﬁts last year in 
part because of our continued investment in digital printing, 
which has drawn in new customers from new markets. 
Our UK manufacturing base is a key asset and we intend to 
continue to invest in new machinery, differentiating us in 
our industry and keeping us at the forefront of innovative 
printing techniques. 
Image left:
The Wabi Sabi collection  
from Scion 
Image right:
The Impasto collection  
from Harlequin
