 Walker Greenbank PLC, Annual Report & Accounts 2014
04
2012 2011 2010
0.1
0.2
0.1
0.3
0.4
1.3
1.4
1.0
1.6
1.7
2014 2013
Licensing income £ million
■ Sanderson, Morris & Co., Zoffany ■ Harlequin, Scion
2012 2011
74
69
76
78
2014 2013
Revenue £ million
I am pleased to report the continued progress that the Group 
has made with the successful implementation of its strategy, 
comprising: 
• Market penetration – to continue to develop our brands in 
the UK and internationally through the development of 
new product categories and extension of market positions; 
• International expansion – to focus on the distribution and 
marketing of our brands in the important US, European, 
and Asia Pacific markets where we see significant potential 
to grow our existing market share and to invest in the 
exciting growth opportunities in other international 
markets; 
• Lifestyle product extension – to profit from the global 
recognition of the Group’s heritage brands, Sanderson  
and Morris & Co, and the contemporary design excellence 
of the Harlequin and Scion brands, by broadening the 
product range and exploiting the considerable licensing 
opportunities; 
• To continue to promote our British manufacturing 
capability through investment in innovative printing 
techniques and market leading facilities that provide 
quality, added value products to our customers  
worldwide; and
• Acquisitions – to actively evaluate acquisition 
opportunities that fit synergistically with our current brand 
portfolio with the objective of further advancing our 
earnings growth.
Overview
We have continued to make strong progress with further 
growth in sales and profits. 
Our Brands have benefited from the continued investment in 
design, marketing and from new product launches. We are 
particularly encouraged with the performance of the Scion 
brand which in its second year has achieved UK and overseas 
sales of over £2 million. Total Brands sales increased 3.3% 
to £60.8 million. In a challenging UK market, Brands sales 
increased by 0.6% over the full year helped by an improving 
second half trend. Export sales grew 6.6% to £23.8 million 
driven by strong growth in US and Western Europe markets.
Chief 
Executive’s 
Strategic 
Review
We have continued to 
make strong progress 
with further growth in 
sales and profits. 
John Sach 
Chief Executive
+ 13.6 %
Global licensing income
Licensing income
Global licensing income  
has grown 13.6% to £2.13 
million with both the UK and 
overseas growing strongly. 
Substantial growth in the  
UK was achieved by our 
bedlinen partner, with  
Scion branded bedlinen 
launched alongside new 
ranges for both Harlequin 
and Sanderson.  Walker Greenbank PLC, Annual Report & Accounts 2014
05
Following the Eurozone crisis in 2012 we are encouraged to 
report sales growth in Western Europe of 9.3% to £6.7 million 
in reportable currency, 5.0% in constant currency, driven by 
Southern Ireland, Benelux, and Germany. The recovery in  
the US has continued, leading to growth in sales of 8.6% to 
£7.0 million in reportable currency and 6.9% in local currency. 
Other highlights include sales in the Far East, up 11.1 %  
to £3.4 million, and growth of 12.7% to £0.9 million  
in Australasia. 
Global licensing income has grown 13.6% to £2.13 million 
with both the UK and overseas growing strongly. Substantial 
growth in the UK was achieved by our bedlinen partner, with 
Scion branded bedlinen launched alongside new ranges for 
both Harlequin and Sanderson. 
Overseas, our Australian bedlinen partner launched the Scion 
brand alongside Harlequin and Sanderson with immediate 
positive results whilst in Japan our long-term partner for 
Sanderson/Morris, Nishikawa, developed a full bed and bath 
offer for Harlequin. Licensing will remain a core area of focus 
for the Group with a number of further initiatives already 
underway, both at home and abroad. 
Manufacturing has had another successful year increasing 
both sales and profits on what was a record year last year. 
There continues to be significant investment in digital printing 
at both the fabric and wallpaper printing sites. This year has 
also seen a substantial investment at our wallpaper factory of 
£1.75 million in the commissioning of a custom-built hybrid 
rotary/gravure machine. Standfast, our fabric printing factory, 
has advanced the commissioning of its second fast-run digital 
printer to meet substantial increase in demand from its 
customers with digital print sales having more than doubled 
compared with last year. 
The Brands
The Brands segment incorporates global trading from our 
internationally recognised brands including our overseas 
subsidiaries in the US and France.
The Brands segment has grown sales by 3.3% over the same 
period last year to £60.8 million. The Brands’ operating 
profits grew 11.8% to £6.59 million helped by strong licensing 
income and improved operating margins. 
Harlequin & Scion
Harlequin has grown its worldwide sales 3.8% to £26.1 million 
compared with the same period last year. It continues to be 
the UK’s leading mid-market brand achieving growth of 1.1 % 
in a challenging UK market. It has cemented its position as 
the Group’s number one brand in the US, growing 21.3% 
year on year. Sales in Western Europe continue to improve, 
growing 14.4% over last year, whilst elsewhere sales were 
broadly flat.
The Scion brand was launched in the early part of last year.  
It continues to grow its brand presence and its second 
extensive collection, Wabi Sabi, was launched in February 2013. 
Its simple contemporary designs are ideally suited to licensed 
products and to date successful ranges of bedlinen, rugs, 
towels, and other ancillary products have been launched. The 
impact of this exciting new brand cannot be overstated – its 
recently launched third collection, Spirit and Soul, is being 
hailed by customers as its strongest yet. 
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating the  
Morris & Co. brand
Encouragingly, sales at Sanderson grew 5.0% over the 
same period last year to £21.0 million. A strong second half 
performance has helped grow the UK, its largest market, 
3.5% over the same period last year to £11.1 million. Export 
sales overall grew 7.0% with Western Europe, its largest 
market outside the UK, growing 1.1 % helped by a stronger 
second half performance, particularly in Germany and 
Southern Ireland. The US, its second biggest export market, 
increased sales by 4.7% year on year whilst the rest of 
the world grew 11.6% driven by the Far East, up 31.9%, 
and specifically Japan and China, up 52.6% and 38.8% 
respectively, reflecting the strength of the Sanderson and 
Morris & Co. brands.
The Sanderson and Morris & Co. brands benefit from heritage 
and global brand recognition, as well as an extensive archive 
of designs to attract licensing opportunities. Licence income 
increased 7.6% over the same period last year. UK and 
Australian bedlinen licensees have helped drive this growth 
along with a number of new licence arrangements signed 
during the year.
Right
The Jardin Bohème collection  
from Harlequin 
Below
Caspia bedlinen by Harlequin 
Digital print sales 
have more than 
doubled compared 
with last year.  Walker Greenbank PLC, Annual Report & Accounts 2014
06
0
15
2012 2011
8.1% 7.5% 8.7% 9.6%
2014 2013
Adjusted operating margin*
0
15
2012 2011
8.21 7.24 9.41 11.3
2014 2013
Adjusted earnings per share** (pence)
2012 2011
74
69
76
78
2014 2013
Revenue £ million
Zoffany
Zoffany is positioned at the upper end of the premium 
market, which has been the most challenging end of 
the market in the recent past. This led to the decision to 
discontinue some older, slow-selling collections slightly early 
impacting the performance in the first half of the year 
which has contributed to a full year sales decline of 1.9% to 
£10.7 million. Encouragingly though, the second half has 
experienced an improving performance over the same period 
last year benefiting from strong performances from more 
recent collections. 
Sales in the UK declined 5.8%. In contrast, Zoffany’s second 
largest market, the US, grew by 3.8% and sales in Western 
Europe were up 17.6%, driven by strong performances in 
Southern Ireland and Spain.
Manufacturing
Our continued commitment to investment in our wallpaper 
and fabric printing factories has helped deliver another strong 
performance with both sales and profitability increasing to 
record levels. Total sales grew 7.0% leading to an increase in 
profits of 14.5% to £3.1 million (2013: £2.7 million). 
Anstey
Anstey, our wallpaper printing factory, had a very successful 
year with sales growing by 6.9% to £16.8 million over the 
same period last year. Third party sales in the UK were up 
7.1 % and third party export sales were up 2.7% whilst sales 
to our own brands grew by 7.5%. 
Anstey has continued its investment in new innovative 
printing techniques. Its recent investment includes the 
purchase of its third digital printer and most significantly  
a £1.75 million investment in a new hybrid rotary/gravure 
machine. This new custom-built machine has increased  
much needed gravure capacity and replaced outdated  
rotary equipment leading to improvements in efficiency and 
capability. This purchase adds to the wide range of printing 
techniques that the factory is able to offer its customers. The 
new machine enables the creation of new textured wallpaper 
product by combining the two print techniques. This 
capability was used by Harlequin in its Leonida collection 
launched in the second half and by third party customers 
developing their own new products. It has also helped the 
Harlequin brand create the recently launched Anthology 
collections. Whilst these collections will be available in the  
UK, the designs have been specifically developed for  
export customers. 
Standfast
Standfast, our fabric printing factory, also had a strong 
performance with annual sales up 7 . 1 % to £15.4 million 
compared with the same period last year. Third party sales are 
up 2.7% with sales to our own brands increasing 9.0% with a 
stronger launch of new print collections from the Brands this 
year. Due to increasing customer demand, a second fast-run 
digital printer was acquired and commissioned in the second 
half. This, combined with the investment in digital printing over 
the past five years, has helped grow digital sales 110% year  
Chief Executive’s Strategic  
Review continued
* Adjusted for accounting charges relating to 
share-based incentives and defined benefit charge. 
** Adjusted earnings per share excludes the accounting 
charges relating to share-based incentives and 
defined benefit charge and the deferred tax credit 
arising from the share-based incentives.  Walker Greenbank PLC, Annual Report & Accounts 2014
07
Top
The Madison collection  
from Sanderson HOME
Bottom
The Jardin Bohème collection  
from Harlequin 
on year and now represents 23% of Standfast’s sales. This 
continued investment in technology and innovation, together 
with our extensive historic archives, has helped create the 
platform to investigate other market opportunities such as upper 
end apparel.
Summary
We have continued to grow our brands both in the UK and 
internationally during the year through our sustained investment 
in design, marketing and from new product launches such as the 
Scion brand which in its second year has delivered sales of more 
than £2 million. Wabi Sabi, its second collection, launched in the 
spring of 2013 won the gold award for Best Fabric and silver for 
Best Wallcovering at the recent House Beautiful Awards.
Internationally, we have seen encouraging growth driven by the 
US, Western Europe, and the Far East. With the recent launch of 
our Anthology collections combined with improving trends in the 
UK, our largest market, we are confident that we will continue to 
build market share.
Global licensing income delivered a strong performance as  
we continue to find new opportunities to leverage the Group’s 
heritage brands. Product extensions for 2014 will include a 
contemporary collection of Momentum bedlinen designs under 
the Harlequin brand and a range of Morris & Co. bedlinen. 
We have continued to invest in our British manufacturing sites 
to further enhance the innovative, added value, techniques 
that we are able to offer our customers. In addition, the Group 
has opened a new design showroom in Chelsea Harbour and 
another in Dubai and are currently extending and redesigning 
our New York showroom.
We have also made a significant investment of £400,000 during 
the past 12 months to transform our presence online. Customers 
can now view our products, experiment with different designs 
and order samples online on any device from a PC to a 
smartphone. We are particularly excited by our Style Library 
website as it marks the first time that all our brands and 
products have been accessible in the same place online.
The new websites are integrated into the Company’s central 
IT system, which was launched in January last year after a 
substantial investment in renewing our IT platform. The new 
websites have the functionality for B2B e-commerce, which we 
believe could have considerable potential in our planned 
expansion in the US.
We will continue to focus on delivering against our strategy and 
the Board remains confident of our future growth prospects.
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
6 May 2014
