 WALKER GREENBANK PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
12
Chief Executive’s 
Review
Strategy
The trading year just completed has been the 
toughest the Group has encountered for 
many years, as a direct consequence of the 
global downturn. However, through strict cost 
control and tight cash management, whilst 
maintaining our commitment to product 
investment and design excellence, we have 
finished the year with a growing momentum 
and in a strategically strong position.
Whilst our turnover and trading profits have 
inevitably declined in the year as a whole we 
remain committed to the five key elements of 
our growth strategy, which comprise: 
Organic growth – to continue to develop  >
the growth opportunities that exist for  
our influential mid market brands in the  
UK retail market by extending their  
market positions;
Geographic expansion – to focus on the  >
distribution and marketing of our brands  
in Europe and the Rest of the World  
where as a Group we are presently 
underdeveloped, and to invest in 
marketing and distribution in the North 
American market, where again our Group 
is currently immature relative to our peers;
Contract sales – to drive the expansion of  >
our developing contracts business through 
further investment in contract specific 
product supported by the strength of our 
brand names, our ability to competitively 
source product and our manufacturing 
capability, predominantly focusing at the 
mid to upper end of the contract market;
Licensing income – to exploit the global  >
recognition of the Sanderson and Morris & 
Co brand names and to develop further 
the licensing opportunities that exist for 
Harlequin in the UK; and
Acquisitions – to evaluate acquisition  >
opportunities that may arise and fit with 
our current brand portfolio and potentially 
provide synergistic and earnings 
enhancing opportunities. 
Overview
As the Chairman has highlighted, the 
gradually improving revenue trend we 
experienced in the latter part of the first half 
has continued, leading to a considerably 
improved performance in the second half.
UK retail brand revenues, currently our most 
important geographic market representing 
51% of external brand revenues, declined by 
2%. We have seen a significant improvement 
in the second half with revenues up 7% 
having suffered a decline of 10% in the first 
half. This was particularly influenced by the 
strength of our mid-market brands of 
Harlequin and Sanderson.
Overall, overseas retail revenues have 
experienced an annual decline of 8%, 
suffering most significantly from very weak 
v OLUm E v COLLECT i ON,
m ORRi S & CO 
USA and continental European markets, 
down 25% and 20% respectively in local 
currency. Revenues in the Rest of the World 
have grown 14% driven by strong 
performances from the Far East, Middle East 
and Australasian markets.
Continued commitment and investment in  
our Contracts business in an extremely 
challenging market environment has seen 
revenue increase in the second half, following 
a first half revenue decline. There has been  
a consistent level of specification activity 
throughout the year but a much higher level of 
conversion into projects in the second half. 
Licensing income has fallen due primarily to 
extremely tough market conditions for some 
of our bed linen retailers, where we have seen 
an annual income decline in excess of 40%. 
Our continued commitment and success in 
developing new licence arrangements 
supported by our globally recognised brands 
has helped mitigate this problem resulting in 
an overall decline of 13%.
External manufacturing has experienced an 
annual decline in revenues of 8%. However 
this is very much a story of two halves, with 
the first half suffering from reduced volumes 
and customer de-stocking and the second 
half benefiting from a first half cost reduction 
programme and a return of customer 
confidence leading to increased revenues and 
substantially improved profitability. WALKER GREENBANK PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
13
Overview
The brands
Walker Greenbank has continued its strong 
product investment and commitment to 
customer service within its four premium 
interior furnishing brands. We believe we  
have witnessed a shift in consumer sentiment 
in which we have seen revenue growth in our 
mid-market brands of Harlequin and 
Sanderson, despite extremely challenging 
market conditions, whilst Zoffany, which  
is positioned at the upper end of the  
premium furnishings market, has seen  
a revenue decline.
Total revenues have declined year on year by 
3%, having been down by 11% at the half 
year. This represents a second half revenue 
increase of 5%. Year on year operating profits 
before exceptional items were down 12%. 
Harlequin
Despite the tough market conditions suffered 
in the first half of the year, it is pleasing to 
report that Harlequin has managed to 
maintain its revenues at the same level as last 
year, having been 10% down in the first half, 
and to continue its position as the leading 
mid-market contemporary brand in the UK.
UK revenues were flat but export showed a 
small growth, however, significant declines 
were experienced in continental Europe and 
USA mitigated by growth in the Far East, 
Middle East and Australasia. Harlequin has 
grown its licensing income principally with the 
development of a range of product lines in the 
John Lewis Partnership. The mix of the three 
main product categories, woven fabric, 
printed fabric and wallpaper has remained 
broadly unchanged. 
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating 
the Morris & Co brand
Despite the difficult trading conditions in the 
first half, Sanderson and Morris & Co, two 
globally recognised brands, have continued 
their commitment to invest in product and 
design leading to strong second-half growth 
of 10%, with a year-on-year overall revenue 
improvement of 2%. Small growth in 
European revenues was buoyed by strong 
growth in Scandinavia and Eastern Europe 
with the traditional markets of Western Europe 
experiencing tougher market conditions. As 
with Harlequin the Australasian market proved 
strong for Sanderson. There was no 
significant change in product mix with all 
ranges growing but wallpaper and printed 
fabric doing better than woven fabric. We 
have and will continue to invest strongly in 
Sanderson and Morris & Co in product and 
marketing support with particular emphasis 
on the important milestones of Sanderson’s 
150th anniversary in 2010 followed in 2011 
with Morris & Co’s 150th anniversary.
Zoffany
This brand, which is positioned at the upper 
end of the premium market, has experienced 
revenue declines of 18% with the second half 
only marginally better than the first half, where 
the decline was 23%. Zoffany appears to have 
suffered from customers that are trading 
down to the benefit of our mid-market brands 
of Harlequin and Sanderson. Both the UK and 
export markets suffered similar overall 
declines. The Far East, Middle East and 
Australasia achieved growth whilst the more 
mature markets of Europe and USA had 
considerable declines. Woven fabric which 
forms a significant proportion of Zoffany’s 
revenue suffered higher year-on-year 
reductions than printed fabric and wallpaper.
Overseas
USA
The US market continues to be extremely 
challenging. Revenues in our US business  
are down 18%, equating to 28% in constant 
currency. Whilst the second half has shown  
a slight improvement the market remains 
enormously difficult. Despite this the US 
remains an important part of the Group’s 
medium to long-term growth strategy.  
The level of investment in patterning and 
marketing was significantly reduced during 
the year to reflect the difficult market and  
this action has enabled the US business  
to mitigate the very significant reduction  
in revenues. We will continue to invest in 
marketing, patterning and sample support  
as and when we see improvements in  
the market.
Europe
Following continued focus on the organisation 
of our French business we have maintained the 
level of revenue in a difficult European market. 
The Group’s Italian distribution business in 
Rome for Harlequin and Zoffany was sold  
in December 2009 to B&B Distribuzione in 
Milan, which has distributed Sanderson 
successfully for many years. We are confident 
that the amalgamation of all our brands under 
one dedicated distributor will lead to 
significant growth over the coming years in 
the important Italian market. 
Manufacturing
Our manufacturing businesses suffered lower 
volumes in the early part of the year as 
customers reduced product launches and 
stock levels in the face of the recession. We 
reacted quickly in the early part of the year  
to reduce headcount through a redundancy 
programme in order to mitigate these lower 
volumes. This cost reduction combined with 
growing customer confidence and improved 
volumes in the second half has turned a first 
half operating loss before exceptional items of 
£84,000 into a full year operating profit before 
exceptional items of £633,000.
Anstey
Anstey our wallpaper printing factory suffered 
an overall revenue decline of 15% having been 
down 23% at the half year. Its revenues are 
down more significantly in its export markets 
than in the UK being hit most severely by the 
difficulties in the US market. Despite this the 
factory has returned a healthy second half 
profit. Our brands, and our peer group, are 
starting to develop exciting new products to 
expand the overall demand for wallpaper and 
we remain confident about the medium-term 
prospects for Anstey.
Standfast
Standfast, our fabric printing factory, has 
maintained revenues over the same period 
last year having been 13% down at the half 
year. Its cost reduction programme in the  
very early part of the year, followed by its main 
UK competitor going into administration and 
emerging in a significantly reduced form, has 
helped Standfast deliver revenue growth in 
the second half of 13% and a significant 
return to profitability having incurred a first half 
operating loss. Woven fabric has enjoyed 
many years of growth and market dominance, 
however, our brands have seen for the first 
time in the second half of the year the return 
of an appetite for the design and colour that 
only printed fabric can offer. Both Harlequin 
and Sanderson have recently launched some 
of the most successful printed fabric ranges 
for a number of years, which bodes well for 
the future prospects of the Standfast factory.
Summary
It is disappointing that the global recession 
has inevitably set us back this year. However 
the prompt action we took to reduce our  
cost base in the early part of the year and  
the commitment to significantly reduce  
our net debt has placed the Group in a  
strong position. 
We have four world renowned brands within 
our Group and a strong financial base that 
allows us to significantly invest in our business 
going forwards. We remain confident that we 
are well placed to return the Group to its 
growth path. 
 
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
2 June 2010
