 Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Reports and Accounts 2006 10
Chief Executive’s Review
“	The	restructuring	of	the	Group	and	successful	turnaround	of	a	 	 loss	making	business	is	now	complete.	This	has	helped	to	deliver	 	 a	better	quality	of	earnings	on	a	stable	turnover	together	with	 significant	cost	reductions	leading	to	a	corporate	profit	for	the	 	 first	time	in	5	years.	All 	 parts	 of	 the	 Group	 are	 now	 trading	 profitably	 and	 there	 are	 considerable	 growth	 opportunities	 for	 the	 Group	 to	 	 exploit	 in	 the	 future.”
The brands
Harlequin
Harlequin	has	continued	to	strengthen	its	position	as	the	 leading	mid-market	contemporary	brand	in	the	UK	and	has	 reinforced	its	position	as	one	of	the	leading	home	furnishings	 suppliers	to	the	John	Lewis	Partnership.	It	continues	to	expand	 its	launches	across	a	broad	range	of	excellent	products	and	 	 to	take	market	share	from	its	competitors.	This	year	has	seen	 strong	growth	in	its	wallpaper	sales	for	the	first	time	in	a	 number	of	years	as	the	fashion	trend	for	wallpaper	at	the	 premium	end	of	the	market	feeds	down	into	the	mid-market.	 Decadence,	a	wallpaper	collection	launched	at	the	start	of	the	 year,	has	become	the	single	best-selling	range	within	the	brand’s	 portfolio.	With	its	increasingly	strong	product	offer,	Harlequin	 was	relaunched	in	the	US	at	the	start	of	the	year	in	a	limited	 number	of	targeted	states.	The	growth	in	the	US	is	ahead	of	our	 expectations	and	on	the	back	of	this	we	will	continue	to	further	 expand	in	the	US	in	the	current	year.	Overall	sales	gathered	real	 momentum	in	the	second	half	leading	to	year	on	year	growth	 of	13%.	Margins	have	improved	and	costs	have	been	tightly	 controlled	leading	to	more	than	a	doubling	of	profits	this	year.	 Zoffany
Zoffany	overall	has	maintained	its	sales	in	line	with	last	year.	 Sales	in	the	UK	have	reduced	very	slightly	compared	with	last	 year	while	export	sales	have	continued	to	grow.	Despite	the	 	 flat	 sales,	 margins	 are	 slightly	 up	 and	 following	 the	 amalgamation	 of	its	back-office	functions	with	Sanderson	at	a	single	site	in	 Denham,	the	business	has	benefited	from	the	full-year	effect	 	 of	considerable	cost	savings	that	have	helped	profit	improve	 significantly	over	last	year.	With	the	appointment	of	a	new	 design	team	at	Zoffany	in	the	second	half	of	the	year	to 	 January	2005,	the	business	has	been	put	onto	a	sound	footing	 to	refocus	the	brand	back	to	its	core	values.	The	new	 collections	for	2006	have	been	well	received,	but	with	most	 markets	remaining	tight,	we	see	the	current	year	as	a	year	 	 of	consolidation	before	Zoffany	returns	to	any	significant	 	 upward	trend	in	sales.
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating the  
Morris & Co brand
This	has	been	a	very	encouraging	year	for	Sanderson.	The	 considerable	investment	that	has	taken	place	over	the	last	two	 years	 has	 started	 to	 drive	 sales.	 The	 sales	 growth	 seen	 in	 the	 first	 half	aided	by	the	launch	in	the	early	part	of	the	year	of	Options	 9,	Sanderson’s	flagship	collection,	has	continued	in	the	second	 half,	helping	Sanderson	to	gain	year-on-year	sales	growth	of	 10%.	Sales	in	the	UK	led	the	improvement	in	the	year	and	 export	markets	are	now	showing	similar	growth.	Licensing	 revenues	have	grown	16%,	driven	by	considerable	growth	from	 our	bedding	licensee,	a	partnership	that	was	established	during	 the	previous	year,	and	healthy	growth	from	our	established	 agreements	in	the	Far	East	and	Australasia.	This	progress	has	 been	augmented	by	new	licence	arrangements	with	a	furniture	 and	blind	manufacturer.	Margins	have	improved,	so	with	the	 benefits	of	the	restructuring	that	took	place	at	the	end	of	last	 year	and	the	merging	of	the	back-office	activities	with	Zoffany,	 a	more	than	doubling	of	profits	has	been	achieved.	The	brand	 continues	to	gain	momentum	and	we	are	confident	that	it	will	 deliver	continued	profit	growth	in	the	future.	 Manufacturing
Anstey
Anstey	has	achieved	the	transformation	into	a	profit-making	 business	after	six	years	of	significant	losses.	This	has	been	the	 direct	result	of	refocusing	the	business	to	a	producer	at	the	mid	 to	premium	end	of	the	market,	significantly	improving	factory	 efficiencies	and	further	cost	reductions.	There	has	been	a	4%	 decline	in	headline	revenues	but	this	is	due	to	the	exiting	of	 lower-margin	business.	Overall	underlying	sales	for	the	year	 have	remained	static.	However,	sales	in	the	second	half	have	 increased	by	7%	as	Anstey	starts	to	benefit	from	the	 considerable	revival	in	trend	for	wallpaper	at	the	upper	end	of	 the	market.	This	move	in	fashion	is	now	starting	to	filter	down	 into	the	mid-market	as	demonstrated	by	Harlequin’s	recent	 wallpaper	revival	and	this	augurs	well	for	the	continued	revival	 of	Anstey.
Standfast
Sales	at	Standfast	have	increased	year	on	year	by	4%.	The	 difficult	trading	conditions	of	the	first	quarter	were	not	 repeated	during	the	remainder	of	the	year	and	the	ground	lost	 in	that	period	was	more	than	made	up	in	the	second	half.	 Morris Volume IV from Morris & Co. Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Reports and Accounts 2006  Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Reports and Accounts 2006  Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Reports and Accounts 2006  Margins	have	been	broadly	maintained	despite	significantly	 higher	energy	costs.	Overhead	costs	have	been	tightly	 controlled	leading	to	an	overall	improvement	in	profitability.
Overseas
USA
Sales	have	reduced	5%	in	local	currency	year-on-year,	following	 the	cessation	of	low-margin	third-party	distribution	business.	 As	a	consequence	of	this,	margins	have	risen	and	this,	 combined	with	the	full-year	effect	of	the	overhead	reduction	 following	the	amalgamation	of	the	Sanderson	and	Zoffany	 businesses	last	year,	returned	the	business	to	profitability.	Sales	 have	benefited	from	the	relaunch	of	the	Harlequin	brand	in 	 	a	limited	number	of	states.	This	has	performed	ahead	of	our	 expectations	and	the	relaunch	will	be	further	extended	in	the	 coming	year.
The	withdrawal	from	a	third-party	distribution	arrangement	 with	a	furniture	manufacturer	has	allowed	us	to	amalgamate	 our	Zoffany	and	Sanderson	showrooms	into	a	single,	prestigious	 6,000ft	showroom	promoting	all	our	brands	within	the	D&D	 building	in	Manhattan,	New	York.	This,	combined	with	 continued	investment	in	the	American	market,	will	present	the	 business	with	considerable	growth	opportunities	in	the	future.	 Europe
Borge	Holding	AS	in	Norway	was	sold	during	the	year	 generating	a	profit	on	sale	of	£532,000	and	a	release	of	the	 	 FRS	17	pension	provision	of	£95,000.	Goodwill	previously	 written	off	to	reserves	of	£1,908,000	was	charged	through	the	 profit	and	loss	account.	Borge	Holding	AS	had	contributed	 £184,000	operating	profit	during	the	year.
Our	distribution	businesses	for	Zoffany	in	Rome	and	Sanderson	 in	Paris	broadly	broke	even	in	line	with	expectations,	although	 they	do	not	represent	a	large	part	of	the	Group.
Summary
The	restructuring	of	the	Group	and	successful	turnaround	of	 	 a	loss-making	business	is	now	complete.	This	has	helped	to	 deliver	a	better	quality	of	earnings	on	a	stable	turnover	together	 with	significant	cost	reductions	leading	to	a	corporate	profit	for	 the	first	time	in	five	years.
All	parts	of	the	Group	are	now	trading	profitably	and	there	are	 considerable	growth	opportunities	for	the	Group	to	exploit	in	 the	future.
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
10	April	2006
 Chaumont Prints from Zoffany
Lagoon from Harlequin Zoffany Paint
