 6 / Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
John Sach Group Chief Executive
Strategy
It is pleasing to report that the Group continues to make progress 
with the implementation of its strategy, which comprises:
 International expansion – to focus on the distribution  
and marketing of our brands in the important European, 
Asia Paciﬁc and North American markets where we see 
signiﬁcant potential to grow our existing market share and 
to invest in the exciting growth opportunities in other 
international markets;
 Market penetration – to continue to develop our brands  
in the UK and internationally through extension of  
market positions;
 Lifestyle product extension – to proﬁt from the global 
recognition of the Group’s heritage brands, Sanderson and 
Morris & Co., and the contemporary design excellence of 
Harlequin and the recently launched Scion brand, by 
broadening the product range and exploiting the 
considerable licensing opportunities; 
 Extending manufacturing capability – to continue to invest 
in the latest printing techniques and to promote and grow 
the international sales opportunities of being a quality UK 
manufacturer; and
 Acquisitions – to actively evaluate acquisition opportunities 
that ﬁt synergistically with our current brand portfolio with 
the objective of further advancing our earnings growth.
Overview
I am pleased to report that we have continued to make 
progress with further growth in sales and proﬁts. 
Our Brands have beneﬁted from the continued investment in 
design, marketing and from new product launches. We have 
extended our product range into areas of the market that we 
haven’t previously targeted through the launch of the new 
Scion brand and Sanderson Home brand extension. Total 
Brands sales increased 2.5% to £58.9 million. In a difficult UK 
market, Brands sales increased 2.5% and export sales grew 
1.5% to £22.3 million with an extremely difficult Eurozone 
market affecting growth. 
Delivering growth 
through continued 
investment
Chief Executive’s Review 7 / Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 
Image left:
The Wabi Sabi collection from Scion 
Image right:
Maple, from the Options 11 collection 
from Sanderson 
The start of the recovery in the US market seen last year has 
accelerated, leading to growth in sales of 17.6% to £6.4 million 
in reportable currency and 16.7% in local currency. Sales in 
the Far East are up 5.8% to just over £3.0 million helped by 
strong growth in China, up 9.3%, and India, up 62.2% in what 
is currently a small territory for the Group with obvious 
potential. Other highlights include the doubling of sales in 
South America and growth of 9.2% in Australasia. These 
encouraging ﬁgures have been adversely impacted by the 
negative trading environment in the Eurozone where sales 
declined 9.4% to £6.1 million in reportable currency, but  
only 3.0% in constant currency. The worst performing  
regions were Benelux, France, Spain and Southern Ireland. 
International sales have also been affected by a drop of 30.8% 
in sales in the Middle East due to two substantial contracts in 
the previous year not being repeated. 
Global licensing income has grown 18.2% to £1.88 million 
with both the UK and overseas growing strongly. In the UK 
our established bedlinen licensee, Bedeck, achieved 
signiﬁcant growth with the launch of a new range for 
Sanderson selling particularly well. The licensed products 
developed at the end of the previous year by Portmeirion 
tableware, Blueprint stationery, Elstead Lighting and Brink & 
Campman rugs have performed well. Amongst our overseas 
licensees we have seen signiﬁcant growth in Japan following 
the 150th anniversary of Morris & Co. last year. Notably the 
Scion brand has recently signed licensing arrangements for 
bedding, rugs and towels within its ﬁrst year of launch. Whilst 
this is a ﬂedgling brand, the nature of its designs translate 
particularly well to licensed product and is seen as an exciting 
opportunity for the Group.
Manufacturing has had another successful year increasing 
both sales and proﬁts on what was a record year last year. 
There has been continued investment in digital printing at 
both the fabric and wallpaper printing sites with a signiﬁcant 
investment at Standfast in its ﬁrst high speed digital printer 
and a smaller investment at Anstey in its ﬁrst digital printer. 
The Brands
The Brands segment incorporates global trading from our 
internationally recognised brands including our overseas 
subsidiaries in the US and France.
The Brands have increased sales by 2.5% over last year to 
£58.9 million. The Brands’ operating proﬁts grew 9.6% to 
£5.89 million helped by strong licensing income and 
improved operating margins. 
Harlequin & Scion
Harlequin has grown its total sales 4.0% over the same period 
last year to £25.2 million and remains the UK’s leading 
mid-market contemporary brand. Sales in the UK and the 
Eurozone were both slightly up on last year. Sales in the US 
have seen signiﬁcant growth, up 39.4%, and Harlequin is now 
the largest selling of the Group brands in the US market. 
Growth in the Far East was signiﬁcantly up, by 20.6%, with the 
key markets of Japan and China performing well. Sales in 
Russia were down 21.4%, due to disruption caused by a 
change in distributor half way through the year, and sales in 
the Middle East were down 25.0%, due predominantly to a 
signiﬁcant contract last year not being repeated. These sales 
shortfalls have been compensated by strong growth in South 
America, where sales have more than doubled, and 
Australasia, up 20.5%.
The Scion brand was launched in February 2012. This brand 
is an affordable contemporary brand aimed at young, 
aspirational and fashion-aware customers in an adjacent 
market segment to that of Harlequin. The launch has been 
very successful and trading is ahead of internal projections. 
Scion won the prestigious Gold Award in November 2012 for 
Best Fabric in House Beautiful magazine’s awards 2012. The 
designs within Scion have proved to be very suited to licensed 
product with ranges of rugs, bedlinen and towels launched 
during the year, which has helped grow licensing income 
47.5%. In September Harlequin also launched a stunning new 
collection of wallpapers through a collaboration with Orla 
Kiely, the internationally acclaimed designer. 
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating the Morris & Co. brand
Total sales were up 0.2% over the same period last year to 
£20.0 million. The UK and the US have been the drivers of 
growth with increases of 2.7% and 17.4% respectively. Sales in 
Western Europe have been particularly badly affected by the 
Eurozone crisis and are down 14.6% on last year. Sales in the 
Far East were down 5.7% on last year due to the boost to 
last year’s sales from the 150th anniversary celebration of 
Morris & Co. Sales in the Middle East are also down 18.8% due 
primarily to a signiﬁcant contract last year not being repeated. 
These sales shortfalls have been mitigated by strong growth 
in Eastern Europe and South America, up 8.3% and 
36.8% respectively.  8 / Walker Greenbank PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Strong foundations 
through continual 
innovation
In the second half Sanderson launched the Sanderson Home 
brand extension. This brand is an exciting offshoot and 
combines keen pricing with aspirational English design. It 
takes the Sanderson brand into a new area of the market place 
whilst retaining the quality and style for which Sanderson is 
renowned worldwide. Sales so far are signiﬁcantly ahead of 
internal projections. Licensing income is up 16% on last year 
driven by a strong performance in Japan, following the 150th 
anniversary of Morris & Co. last year, and, encouragingly, new 
licence arrangements particularly Portmeirion tableware and 
Blueprint stationery.
Zoffany
Zoffany is positioned at the upper end of the premium 
market. Total sales have grown by 1.2% over the same period 
last year to £11.0 million. Zoffany’s two largest markets, 
the UK and US, have encouragingly grown 7.7% and 2.9% 
respectively. Sales in Western Europe were affected by the 
Eurozone crisis and were down 16.0%. Elsewhere sales 
were up 2.0% with the exception of the Middle East where 
sales were 48.2% lower than the previous year due to two 
signiﬁcant contracts last year not repeated.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing has delivered another strong performance 
with both sales and proﬁtability increasing to record levels. 
Total sales grew 4.9% driven by an increase in international 
sales of 17.5% leading to an increase in proﬁts of 4.0% to 
£2.7 million (2012: £2.6 million). 
Anstey
Anstey, our wallpaper printing business, had a very successful 
year with sales growing by 16.6% to £15.7 million. Third party 
sales in the UK were up 15.2% and third party export sales 
were up 55.7%. Internal sales to our own brands also grew 
by 11.8%. 
Anstey has continued to add new printing techniques to its 
portfolio with investment in its ﬁrst digital printer during the 
year. The digital printing technique was utilised in Zoffany’s 
Melissa White wallpaper collection launched in February. 
The second Momentum collection from Harlequin, which 
was launched in the autumn of 2012, featured a distinctive 
textured effect from the scatter machine purchased last year. 
This growing range of techniques has helped produce new 
wallpapers that have helped to increase market interest in 
wallpaper and attracted new export customers. We continue 
to innovate at Anstey with a signiﬁcant investment planned 
for the coming year in a hybrid rotary/gravure machine, which 
will be able to create unique effects as well as enhance our 
capacity and efficiency.
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Standfast
Standfast, our fabric printing factory, has seen a decline 
in annual sales of 5.5% to £14.3 million. Third party sales 
declined 12.6% with sales to our own brands increasing 
6.8% with a stronger launch of new print collections from 
the Brands this year.
When launching a print collection using traditional printing 
techniques the customer has to make a signiﬁcant investment 
and, during a difficult market, it is not surprising that 
customers have been more cautious. Standfast has seen 
volumes decline for these traditional techniques. Digital 
printing helps reduce the level of initial investment in a new 
collection and sales from digital have grown 76% compared 
with last year. Standfast continues to invest in digital printing 
and the ﬁrst fast-run printer was commissioned during the 
second half of the year.
Summary
We continued to exploit the potential of our brands during 
the year and to extend the areas of the marketplace in which 
we operate. We launched an entirely new brand in Scion and 
a brand extension in Sanderson Home, both of which have 
been well received. Our manufacturing capability has been 
extended through our investment in digital printing at our 
wallpaper and fabric factories.
We achieved encouraging growth in many of our international 
markets, including an excellent performance in the US. During 
the current year, we will continue to build our business 
internationally and remain conﬁdent of continued progress.
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
1 May 2013
