 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INTRODUCTION
The past year has seen an increase in sales in all
divisions and for the Company as a whole, up from
£260.7m to £275.4m with EBIT down from £12.6m
to £11.2m. The continuing businesses increased sales
5.5% from £243.7m to £257.0m with EBIT down
from £11.4m to £9.9m. Growth in sales came in the
second half of the year which in total was 15% up on
the first half, reflecting the execution of our plans to
develop major differentiation between Acal and others
in our markets: in Electronic Components and IT
Solutions we have added a number of new world
class suppliers, and in IT Parts Services we have
extended our capability to manage outsourced
supplies of IT parts and services.
The reduction in EBIT results primarily from increased
reorganisation costs, a bad debt and inventory
obsolescence arising from the RoHS Directive,
amounting in aggregate to £1.7m.
We have begun the process of rationalising the Group
with the sale of our Air Conditioning and Refrigeration
Components division announced in May.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW TABLE
The performance of Acal’s divisions in each of the years ended 31 March 2006 and 2005 is set out below:
2006 2005
(restated)**
Sales EBIT* Sales EBIT
as % as % as % as %
£m of Group £m of Sales £m of Group £m of Sales
Electronic
Components 104.0 41% 2.4 2.3% 100.1 41% 3.4 3.4%
IT Parts Services 56.9 22% 5.2 9.1% 51.3 21% 4.6 9.0%
IT Solutions 96.1 37% 2.3 2.4% 92.3 38% 3.4 3.7%
257.0 100% 9.9 3.9% 243.7 100% 11.4 4.7%
* EBIT = Earnings before interest, tax, the Group’s share of profit of associates and exceptional items, stated after full
allocation of central costs.
**The restatement of the prior year’s figures arises from the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the 
reclassification of the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration activities as discontinued, in the light of their sale, and the
reallocation of central costs following that reclassification.
8 ACAL plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 March 2006
Growth in sales came in the
second half of the year which in
total was 15% up on the first
half, reflecting the execution of
our plans to develop major
differentiation between Acal 
and others in our markets.  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
9 ACAL plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 March 2006
ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS 
The only pan-European demand creation distributor
The Electronic Components Division, our largest,
continues to develop and grow with sales up 3.9%
from £100.1m to £104.0m but a 29% reduction in
EBIT from £3.4m to £2.4m. EBIT was affected by a
charge of £1.2m, £0.6m by way of RoHS stock
provision and £0.6m in increased reorganisation costs.
The sales growth was primarily from our technology
products which comprise semiconductors, power
components, system components and microwave and
wireless products. Concentration in this area has led
to Acal being appointed by a number of world class
manufacturers, including Actel, Linear Technology,
Microchip and Vicor, as their partner to develop sales
in many European countries. It has also put us in the
unique position of being the leading demand creation
distributor in Europe.
With an increasing number of suppliers working with
Acal across Europe we have commenced centralising
our back office and logistics facilities in order to
improve efficiency and reduce our cost base. We are
however increasing our customer-facing resources to
cater for the enlarged product portfolio and growing
customer base.
IT PARTS SERVICES (ITPS)
Europe’s premier IT parts management company
IT Parts Services had an excellent year overall with
sales rising 10.9% from £51.3m to £56.9m and EBIT
13% from £4.6m to £5.2m. The growth came from
HELP FOR FARMERS
Cows are sensitive, the correct breeding time can
be limited to a matter of hours and pinpointing it
can bring significant financial gain to the modern
farmer. An activity meter, developed by a world-
leading manufacturer of agricultural equipment in
Sweden, has a built-in low-cost radio transmitter
designed in and supplied by ACAL AB, which
facilitates the transmission of this crucial
information from the cow to the farmer.
DEEP IN SPACE
A space probe’s ten year mission is to land on 
a comet in outer space and to analyse samples
from its surface. A resistive heater supplied by 
Acal Radiatron plays a key role in the technology
whereby the controlled release of helium forces
matter from the comet into the instrument used
for its analysis. The data collected will provide vital
clues as to the origin of solar system materials. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
10 ACAL plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 March 2006
ATM Parts and Computer Parts International which
were acquired in 2002 and 2003 respectively. The
major areas of expansion for these businesses were
largely, as anticipated, the introduction of new
product in ATM and CPI’s success in attracting more
service organisations to outsource procurement and
supply of IT parts – a capability that has made ITPS
‘Europe’s premier IT Parts Management Company’.
IT SOLUTIONS
Europe’s niche IT solutions distributor
Although we have succeeded in growing sales 4.1%
from £92.3m to £96.1m, this has been the most
challenging of our businesses. EBIT has declined 32%
from £3.4m to £2.3m, having been affected by a £0.2m
RoHS stock provision and a £0.3m bad debt provision.
CASH IN HAND
ATM Parts Company is supplying over 1,000 
state of the art ATM monitors for a leading UK
high street bank. The monitor achieves brightness
and clarity of the highest quality and an 
extended life by use of a viewable sensor which
adjusts brightness as ambient light changes.
Manufactured in the Far East but designed-in by
Acal the monitor will also enable the bank to take
advantage of new Windows based applications.
In Electronic Components and 
IT Solutions we have added a
number of new world class
suppliers, and in IT Parts Services
we have extended our capability
to manage outsourced supplies 
of IT parts and services. Profit was also reduced by pressure on both price and
margin in our storage networking products where unit
prices have come down by as much as 30% year-on-
year and although now stabilised, show little prospect
of improvement in the core host bus adapter market.
However, new products for this market from CISCO,
who have appointed Acal as an exclusive distributor
for their MDS family of products in Europe, recognises
our competence and provides an excellent opportunity
to return to growth.
Headway, our Document Management and Imaging
Product group and the Networking and Security group
achieved growth in sales and the latter in particular
turned in an excellent performance meeting our
expectations. Both also have new product offerings
although it is too early to quantify the timing and
benefit in revenue and margin. 
Vertec, our small Medical Instrumentation business,
which was previously included in Industrial Controls, 
is now allocated to IT Solutions as a result of the
discontinued classification of the AC&R activities
which were the dominant part of Industrial Controls.
AIR CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION 
As previously mentioned this business is being sold to
our major supplier, Parker Hannifin Corporation, and 
I would like to thank all those who will be leaving us
and wish them all every success in the future. We had
got to know Parker well since 2004 when they acquired
Sporlan Valve Co. and I have no doubt that with their
breadth of product capability there will be ample scope
for further successes. 
ACAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Continuing consolidation and centralisation of many
‘back office’ functions of our Electronic Components
and IT Solutions Divisions has resulted in considerable
change to our own IT and logistic processes during
the past year. I am pleased to report that the changes
have increased our efficiency and customer support
without any disruption to the service that we provide
to our customers.
ACAL PEOPLE
The last three years have seen considerable change in
the markets in which we operate and it is to the credit
of large numbers of Acal people that we are now
successfully executing the strategy which has been
developed. I take this opportunity to thank them all.
Tony Laughton
Chief Executive
19 June 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
11 ACAL plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 March 2006
THE RIGHT PATH
In providing geographic information for Great
Britain, Ordinance Survey has made ever greater
use of digital storage. The protection of these vital
assets required a disaster recovery strategy as well
as the ability to replicate digital data held at
headquarters at a remote location. Acal IT
supported Ordinance Survey, Kashya and Cisco in
successfully evaluating the technology to achieve
this solution and subsequently supplied the chosen
Kashya hardware.
