 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
6 ACAL plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 March 2006
Acal’s strategy is to continue to
increase its market share and not
rely upon improvement in market
conditions. We believe this strategy
will return Acal to a path of
profitable growth with Electronic
Components and IT Parts Services
as the main contributors.
Having completed my first year as Chairman, I am
pleased to report that following a strategic review, in
which the Board formulated its plan for developing
the business over the medium term, Acal has made
good progress during the second half-year.
On 25 May 2006 Acal began the process of
rationalising the Group and announced the disposal of
its air conditioning and refrigeration business for a
consideration of £8m subject to an adjustment based
upon the net tangible assets at completion. This business
has been treated as discontinued in the accounts. 
Year-on-year sales growth of the continuing
businesses was 5.5% – the second half showing
growth of 7.5% over the corresponding period in 
the prior year – reflecting second half order growth 
of 11% over the first. EBIT for the year fell 13.2% to
£9.9m. However EBIT for the second half at £5.8m
was a significant improvement on the first and down
only 2% on the same period last year. The Group’s
continuing businesses made a 30% return on average
capital employed.
Costs have remained under close scrutiny with further
selective rationalisation of back office/ logistics functions
and continued selective headcount reductions achieved
across all businesses. The company has also prepared
itself for the introduction of RoHS (Restriction of
Hazardous Substances) legislation, which comes into
effect in July 2006, minimising risks to the business.
Profit before taxation of the continuing businesses fell
from £9.9m to £8.4m. 
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.4p
per share, unchanged from last year, payable to
shareholders on the register at 30 June 2006. Together CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
7 ACAL plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 March 2006
with the interim dividend of 7.2p it will make a total
of 21.6p for the year, again unchanged from 2005.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Acal continues to strive for high standards of
governance, details of which will be given in the
governance statement included as part of the Annual
Reports & Accounts.
BOARD COMPOSITION
As reported last year, Rhys Williams stood down as a
Non-executive Director on 20 July 2005. At that time,
Eric Barton became Acal’s Senior Independent Director
and Graham Williams became Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. The Board considers that
as currently constituted and for a Company of Acal’s
size, an appropriate balance of skills is available. For
this reason a replacement for Rhys Williams has not
been sought.
EMPLOYEES
Despite the tough competitive environment in which
Acal continues to trade, the efforts of its hard working
and loyal workforce have been very apparent and
much appreciated by the Board.
THE FUTURE AND STRATEGY
Acal’s Electronic Component activities continued 
to show sales growth in 2006 with a number of
franchise wins during the year in both the UK and
Europe. Our strategy for this business is to continue
to focus on demand creation and extension of the
product range with a view to increasing market share
and consolidating Acal’s position as the only 
pan-European demand creation distributor.
The IT Parts Services business has enjoyed a good year
with a number of contract wins. With service
organisations increasingly outsourcing their parts
management, procurement and logistics to third parties,
we look to build upon our success and attract more
customers to this model. 
We have renamed our IT Products business ‘IT Solutions’
to reflect our marketing philosophy of offering
customers business solutions rather than just supplying
hardware. The IT market remains highly competitive
and our emphasis will be upon maintaining margins
and improving profitability coupled with continued
enhancement of the product portfolio. This division
now includes our small medical imaging and diagnostic
equipment business.
Across the Group we will continue to strive for more
effective and efficient back office, logistics and
support functions. 
Acal’s strategy is to continue to increase its market share
and not rely upon improvement in market conditions.
We believe this strategy will return Acal to a path of
profitable growth with Electronic Components and IT
Parts Services as the main contributors.
Richard Moon
Chairman
19 June 2006
