 4
Chairman’s statement
Our results
Over the past five years Warthog has made the
transition that few European games developers
achieve, from being a small, regional, specialist
developer with one or two projects into a high-
calibre, multi-functional, international developer
whose customers are the world’s premier publishers
and IP owners.  Warthog’s reputation and standing
in this global industry is amongst the very highest.
It is our pleasure to report on an exciting year for the
Group, although latterly seeing the continued expansion
marred by exceptional difficulties resulting in a
disappointing financial return.  Our revenue increased by
29% from £8.9 million to £11.4 million for this period.
However, several of our customers could not raise
sufficient capital to fund their growth plans and found
themselves in difficult financial positions resulting in two
of our game development projects no longer being
funded.  This together with a consistently unfavourable
US$ exchange rate, meant we have been obliged to
report a pre-tax loss for this period of £790,705 after
exceptional costs of £1,313,726.   In line with the policy
outlined at the time of our flotation, the Directors do not
propose the payment of a dividend.
I can report progress that our long term strategy of
working closely with premium publishers on global
brands has been realised, with contracts for ‘Battlestar
Galactica’ with Vivendi/Universal; ‘Looney Tunes: Back In
Action’ with Warner Bros./Electronic Arts;  ‘Harry Potter &
The Philosopher’s Stone’ for Electronic Arts and other, as
yet unannounced contracts of a similar stature. 
The dominant market for our industry is the USA and for
some time it has been our goal to build a presence in this
market to assist in serving our US customers.   I am
delighted with the route we have taken with the
acquisition of the high-calibre team known originally as
‘Fever Pitch’ in February and their progress to date.
We appointed Ian Templeton to the Board in March. 
An experienced accountant at the most senior level, who
has been dedicated to corporate finance for several years,
Ian brings valuable know-how to the Warthog Board. 
In accordance with good corporate governance
procedures Ian has joined both the remuneration and
audit committees.
Outlook
The computer games industry has undergone some
significant changes over the last year, and many of our
competitors have been forced to downsize or even exit
from the industry. However, despite the difficulties
faced by some competitors, Warthog has managed to
strengthen its position as a leading European
computer games developer.
Warthog sees the year ahead as one in which we
will take advantage of the growth undergone in
the year gone by, in which we will not seek to
achieve growth through further acquisition, but rather
through capitalising on the strength of the position we
have established.  We have laid the foundations to
enable us to build up our financial strength, increasing
revenues and profitability without corresponding
investment in fixed assets and overheads.  This should
allow us to improve our financial performance and to
replenish our reserves for future opportunities in the
medium term.
Iain Macdonald
Chairman
29 July 2003
Warthog plc
Annual Report and Accounts for
the year ended 31 March 2003 5
We have laid the
foundations to
enable us to build
up our financial
strength, increasing
revenues and
profitability.
