 6
Chief Executive’s review
The last year has been both exciting and
frustrating. Winning high calibre contracts such
as ‘Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone’,
‘Battlestar Galactica’, ‘Looney Tunes: Back In
Action’, as well as other as yet unannounced
titles, has been an immense achievement and has
positioned Warthog  ahead of our competition.
Expanding to our now four-studio format,
including a presence in Austin, Texas, has been a
major strategic step and achievement for us.
The precarious financial position of some of the less
strong, second-tier publishers with whom we entered
into contractual relationships in previous years, has
meant we have had to shoulder the financial burden of
a number of  products to completion and endeavour to
re-sell them to new publishers. As we have not
managed to complete these re-arrangements within
the financial year, we have, most disappointingly,
reported a pre-tax loss of £790,705 after exceptional
costs. This is the first time in our history we have
reported a loss.  Although we are now forced
temporarily to self-fund several projects until we find
new publishers for them, this does not represent a
change in strategy in our business model, but an
exceptional operational necessity forced on us by these
circumstances. We were unable at that stage of our
development to avoid accepting these risks, but have
since been able to move past that point, based on our
more strongly established position in the industry.
We are correspondingly well placed to meet the
challenges and increasing pressures of future games
development. Technological advances on all platforms
means that it is not uncommon that team sizes have
increased to up to 50 people working on a single
game, and will continue to increase further with the
launch of the PlayStation3 and Microsoft Xbox2
platforms. There is a small and diminishing number of
development studios that have the capacity to manage
projects of this scale. We are focusing our efforts in
three areas: People, Process and Technology.
Warthog prides itself on its technical excellence and I
am delighted to report that our proprietary TUSK™
game engine, is receiving wide recognition and is
a unique strength for the group.  TUSK™ is
now being used successfully on multiple
projects at three out of our four
studios. As a result, we have over 30
programmers both using and
enhancing TUSK™, which is comparable
to the development resource levels of
competing middleware products sold
commercially, and was a major factor in
Warthog winning the ‘Harry Potter & the
Philoshopher’s Stone’ contract. We are also
investing in a process improvement project under
the title Hog Application Manual (HAM) to enhance
our present development systems, and also to prepare
for ever larger development teams. 
The majority of our success is down to the experience
and dedication of our staff.  In many instances they
have worked excessive hours to accommodate
customer requests and their commitment to quality is
outstanding.  We thank them profusely.
Warthog plc
Annual Report and Accounts for
the year ended 31 March 2003 7
Expanding to our
now four-studio
format, including a
presence in Austin,
Texas, has been a
major strategic step
and achievement
for us. 8
Chief Executive’s review
Warthog plc
Annual Report and Accounts for
the year ended 31 March 2003
Our Expanding Group
Our Swedish office was acquired in April 2002 for an
initial consideration of £413,115 in Warthog shares
with further shares to be issued subject to
performance. The studio is working well on ‘Richard
Burns Rally Championship’ and we have invested in
staff in order to commence a second project in this
studio.  The total number of employees has
increased from 24 on acquisition to 34.  
In December 2002 we acquired the Manchester-based
game studio, known as  ‘Zed Two’.  The company,
founded in 1996, is best known for its original puzzle
games ‘Wetrix’ and ‘Aqua Aqua’ and currently numbers
21 people.  The acquisition consideration is dependent on
the future profitability of the business.  Games in
development include the role-playing game  ‘Pillage’ for
major consoles, a new puzzle franchise ‘Sticky Balls’, and
a recently won premium title, which has yet to be
announced.
In line with our strategic objective to build a presence in
the all-important USA, to be closer to the industry’s
largest publishers, we were delighted to agree the
acquisition of Fever Pitch in February of this year.  Fever
Pitch not only met this strategic objective, but also met
our operational objectives by bringing to the Group such
a highly talented and experienced team.  The now
renamed ‘Warthog Texas’ studio is based in Austin, Texas
and at present has a workforce of 18 working on a major
title.  The business was acquired for an initial
consideration of £186,000 satisfied by the issue of
Warthog shares with further shares to be issued
depending on its performance.  The studio has been cash
flow positive and earnings enhancing since acquisition.
It is a credit to the professionalism of these studios that
they have integrated so well within the Group.
The Games Market
The rise in attention on the games market by the
supermarket retailers has focused the industry on popular
brands, diminishing the signing of original products. 
In many cases games are aligned with other mass-market
entertainment products as part of global branding and
marketing campaigns.
The Game Cube market is proving financially challenging
for third party publishers, and although the gaming
community is very supportive of the excellent hardware,
there are few new games being commissioned for this
platform.
These factors have resulted in games sales largely being
dominated by the top games in the charts. Although the
games market continues to grow in-line with forecasts,
the number of games being commissioned has reduced.
The arrival of more technically advanced phones,
dedicated hand held gaming devices and Personal Digital
Assistants further invigorates these fledgling markets.
The market for Game Boy Advance games is difficult,
although the announcement of the Portable PlayStation
by Sony will provide some further stimulation of this
hand-held market. 9 10
Chief Executive’s review
Warthog plc
Annual Report and Accounts for
the year ended 31 March 2003
Games Released in 2002/2003
‘Rally Championship’ on GC and PS2 was released with
Sci Entertainment and received good critical acclaim. 
It was also released in Japan by the Japanese publisher
Success, and by Conspiracy in the USA.
‘Robot Wars’ on GBA was completed for the BBC and
received rave reviews including their highest rating
‘Excellent’ from EAGB Advance.
We completed ‘Loons: The Fight for Fame’ for
infogrames/Atari after acquiring the project development
team and partly completed game from Infogrames
themselves.
‘Mace Griffin Bounty Hunter’ was published in June 2003
on the PS2 and Xbox in the USA and it will follow in the
shops in August in the UK.  The PC and GC versions will
follow shortly after.  It has received some excellent reviews
from the games press including:
‘Game of the month’ and 90% score from PSW
magazine (UK)
‘Gold award’ and 95% score from PSE2
magazine (USA)
‘Wolverine’s Revenge’ was published by Activision
simultaneously with the new X Men 2 movie and
achieved No 4 in the UK all formats chart and No 3 on the
PS2 only chart.
SWING!, the publicly listed German publisher, for which
we produced the Animaniacs games ‘Hollywood Hijinx’
announced their receivership in early 2003.  We have
since negotiated the rights to the game back from the
receivers and have come to an agreement with the
owners of the Animaniacs licence, Warner Bros., so that
we can re-sell the game to an alternative publisher. 
We are optimistic that we will be able to sell the game in
due course.
We redeployed our development team from ‘X10’ to
work on ‘Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone’. 
This was by mutual agreement with Conspiracy
Entertainment Inc. our publisher for ‘X10’ while they
undertook some re-organisation. We expect to continue
development soon.
We developed the ‘ET’ title for the publisher New
Kid Co. who found themselves unable to meet
their financial commitments. The Group has
come to an agreement with Universal Interactive,
the owners of the ‘ET’ games licence, and New Kid
Co. to obtain the rights to re-sell the game and to
recover a proportion of the development costs incurred.
Good progress has been made on this, with several offers
made and we expect to announce a deal shortly.
Several mobile games were completed and published for
THQ and Mobile Scope within the period. 11 Games in Development
Last year we were commissioned to develop a multi-
platform game for ‘Battlestar Galactica’, the first time that
the franchise has appeared on a games console. 
The game, for PS2 and Xbox, is a story-driven space
action-adventure that takes place at the end of the Cylon-
Colonial Wars, 40 years prior to the setting of the original
TV series.  The game will be released to celebrate the 25th
anniversary of the original series in conjunction with the
original series being released on home video and DVD and
a new Battlestar Galactica mini series.
We won the contract with Warner Bros. for the game of
the film ‘Looney Tunes: Back In Action’ which will be
released simultaneously with the film in November 2003
on PS2 and GC.  Warner Bros. Consumer Products has
partnered with Electronic Arts to co-publish the game.
This is the first time Warner Bros. has placed a contract
directly with a developer and we were delighted to be
selected against worldwide competition.
We were delighted to bring Hogwarts to Warthog at 
the beginning of the year, and in an extremely quick
development schedule we have developed an
outstanding  ‘Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone’
for Electronic Arts.  This game is due in the shops in 
Q4 2003.
Our USA studio is working on a contract to develop a top
title game associated with a well-known franchise, with a
premium publisher, due for release in early 2005. 
This confidential development is going well and we look
forward to announcing this game in due course.
Our rally game has now been endorsed by Richard Burns,
who is currently leading the World Rally Championship, to
become ‘Richard Burns Rally Championship’. The contract
has been modified to complete in Q1 2004 and now fixed
for the PS2, Xbox & PC versions.  The game is a simulation
rallying game and has pushed the level of realism and car
simulation to the extremes.
12
Chief Executive’s review
Warthog plc
Annual Report and Accounts for
the year ended 31 March 2003 13
We won the
contract with
Warner Bros. for
the game of the
film ‘Looney Tunes:
Back In Action’ 14
Chief Executive’s review
Financial Review
We have increased our turnover by 29%, slightly
improved gross margins to 19%, grown our Gross
Profit by 39% to £2.2 million, and our EBITDA,
before exceptional items, by 54% to £1.18 million.
This demonstrates the continued improvement in
our business.
This achievement is impressive in a period when the US
dollar has weakened from 1.42 to 1.57 (or 11%), which
affects the 78% of our business generated in US$. Based
upon its maximum impact on our US receivables this
deterioration alone would have resulted in a £931,000
decline in revenue. Clearly, we have hedged against the
movement to achieve a better result but nevertheless its
impact has been significant.
We would have reported a profit this year had it not been
for the exceptional provisions of £1.3 million we have
made against bad and doubtful debts or stalled contracts.
After these exceptional costs we are reporting a loss
before tax for the first time in 6 years of trading. Whilst
this is disappointing, we are optimistic to recover our
position on these contracts.
Turning attention to the balance sheet, despite these
substantial provisions we have actually increased our net
assets. Fixed assets have increased by £0.3 million
through continued investment in our building
infrastructure, computers and software. Goodwill on
intangible assets was £0.9 million at the end of the year,
principally being goodwill acquired during the year, and
this is being prudently written off over the next 5 years,
although we expect the benefit from these acquisitions to
continue beyond this period. Each acquisition has
generated profits in the period and is likely to be a cash
contributor to the group this coming financial year.
Working capital has increased by £1.95 million during the
year with a significant increase in current assets met only
by a small increase in creditors.
Unbilled contract work accounts for by far the largest
element of the increase in current assets, rising by 
£1.7 million over last year. One of the downsides of
working with the largest US brand owners in conjunction
with the larger publishers is a longer approval and
payment process, which has contributed to this figure.
Equally the general tight financial environment has meant 
that in some instances contracts have a greater degree of
payment on completion than we would like.  Further, to
win these larger and premier projects we are required to
undertake an increasing amount of work prior to the
contract being awarded.
This increase in working capital was accommodated by a
reduction in cash and by a further increase in our debt
facility. We have extended our debt facility to £3 million
and had drawn down £1.5 million against this at the end
of the financial year. This new facility was increased to
give more headroom for our working capital requirements
and to bridge the cash implications of contracts against
which we have provided at the year-end.
We experienced a cash outflow for the period due to the
default by our customers, previously detailed, against
which we have now provided.  This, together with an
extension of credit taken by our customers through our
unbilled contract work has pushed us into a cash negative
position again.  Cash outflow from operations was 
£2.3 million compared to £2.1 million last year but this
included working capital loans made to undertakings
which were subsequently acquired and the cash came
back from these acquisitions to bring us into line with last
year.  Furthermore, the repayment of tax through
successful claims for R&D tax credits and the reduction we
predicted in capital expenditure gave us a £0.7 million
improvement in our cash outflow before financing.
With our strong new business pipeline, we are confident
that we will improve on this cash performance this
coming year and the additional headroom created by the
extended facility will be sufficient to service the cash
needs of the business.
Outlook
It has become clear that the Sony PS2, followed by the
Microsoft Xbox, as well as their developing online
applications, have become the dominant platforms within
the sector for the foreseeable future. Projects which
harness the power of these sophisticated technologies
will get more complex and the vitally important product
marketing will often be linked to, or based upon
developments in other media, such as film, TV and books.   15
There are likely to be fewer but larger projects, and the
willingness on the part of the publishers or IP owners to
take risks on developers without proven track record will
shrink.  Relationships between publisher and developer
will be more integrated, although also, at times more
tense, as the stakes become higher.  This will reshape the
industry, which we believe will be to our advantage.
I am indebted to the hard work of our staff, and it is they
who deserve the credit for our significant achievements in
this and previous years.  The combination of creativity and
hard work together with our TUSK™ engine and
associated tools pipeline is a powerful combination and
appealing for our customers. We are now reaping the
rewards from our investment in TUSK™ and we will
continue to do this.
After our heady growth over the last few years, this year
will be one of consolidation. Having now achieved a
portfolio of premium titles, we are concentrating on
delivering these to the best quality and
working closely with our publishers to give
these the best chance of achieving hit
status, as well as focusing on
increasing our returns.
Ashley Hall
Chief Executive
29 July 2003
