 7 7
Chief Executive’s report for the year ended 31 March 2007
I am pleased to report that the Group has continued to
increase market share despite the year being dominated by
a challenging market place. The details relating to our
financial performance are highlighted in the financial
review, following this report.
The Group remain one of the UK’s largest suppliers to the
fitted kitchen sector supplying products to over 8,000
retailers. No single customer represents more than 2% of
the Group’s total turnover putting the Group in a very
healthy position as risk is spread right across the sector.
It is important that our customers view us as a “One Stop”
shop able to provide a highly efficient delivery service of all
the best brands in our industry and integral to their
business. The Group seeks to manage the risk of losing
customers to competitors by ensuring local representation
and maintaining strong progressive relationships with
them.
Acquisition of BDD Limited
During the year, the Group purchased BDD Limited, a
competitor in the fitted kitchen sector and supplier to
contractors in Scotland. The acquisition strengthened
Waterline’s market share in Scotland and has proven to be
a wholly complementary addition to the Group.
BDD Limited has now been integrated into the Waterline
premises in Cumbernauld, whilst we are currently
refurbishing a neighbouring unit which will be a showroom
for both BDD and Waterline and give us additional storage
space.
Logistics Updates
During the year, the Group re-branded its fleet under the
“Hydra Logistics” name. Hydra delivers all Group products
maximising Waterline’s delivery capabilities; be it a trade,
site or home delivery.
Whilst the 2005 Coolectric acquisition went smoothly, there
was not the level of expertise given to understanding the
products wholly, which resulted in an overspend in our
logistics budget. Mistakes that were made resulted in
changes in personnel, with the appointment of a new
Logistics Director, together with new managers in transport
and warehousing. The logistics operation is now run more
efficiently and provides the platform for the acquisition of
further companies in our sector in due course.
UK Roadshow Programme
The Group’s successful Roadshow programme continued in
April and May 2007 where, once again, over 2,000 trade
customers attended over six weeks in six stimulating and
well situated locations throughout the UK. The Roadshows
gave the Group a much needed boost at a time when
trading has become less buoyant due to prevailing
economic conditions.
Outlook
Waterline’s manufacturers have continued to update their
product ranges and the Group shall be releasing the latest
edition of its Blue Book – the industry Bible - on 1 July 2007.
The Blue Book 14 will continue to be the main reference
book in our sector and will ensure that Waterline is at the
forefront of our customers’ attention.
Continuing price changes, due to raw material increases
against a backdrop of interest rate hikes, have meant that
the New Year has been slower than expected. Whilst
business continues to flourish at the very top end of our
sector, the middle market, due to these influences has
partially eroded. Whilst the Group is not dependent on new
house builds, it is important that refurbishment continues
to grow and whilst consumers still enjoy considerable
equity in their properties, we do not envisage a slow down
in kitchen refurbishment.
Our customers recognise the level of service that all our
Group companies achieve and, more importantly, the
quality of products offered. We are an important cog in
their supply chain and we continually aspire to offer a more
efficient and “best in class” service than they would expect
from our competitors. As a consequence the Group is also
ensuring that the individual businesses focus resources to
assist in improving and adapting the current business
continuity procedures and program. This will help to
mitigate the risk from any external factors that can lead to a
business interruption.
The Board continues to recognise the importance of our
teams in all our Group companies. Staff have remained
energetic and enthusiastic in delivering an exemplary level
of service, and the Group looks forward to maintaining our
position as the premier supplier in the independent kitchen
retail sector.
Michael Lawrence
Chief Executive
3 July 2007
Chief Executive’s Report
