 STRATEGIC REPORT
08 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 Ariel Recanati
 Group Non-Executive Chairman
“  During 2013 we made progress 
in delivering on our strategy of 
strengthening our position as 
a leading provider of quality POU 
dispensers, further strengthening 
the foundations of future success.”
In summary
 w Revenue up 22.9 per cent to $124.0 million 
(2012: $101.0 million)
 w Adjusted EBITDA increased 41.3 per cent  
to $19.5 million (2012: $13.8 million)
 w Adjusted operating profit increased 38.4 per cent 
to $12.3 million (2012: $8.9 million) 
 w Net cash from operating activities increased 
by 8.5 per cent to $7.5 million (2012: $6.9 million)
 w Net debt of $31.0 million (2012: net funds 
of $24.4 million), ending the year with cash 
and cash equivalents of $16.6 million
 w During 2013 we have made further progress 
in delivering on our strategy, acquiring  
three businesses
 w Strengthened the Board and management 
team with key appointments
Introduction
During 2013 we made progress in delivering on our 
strategy of further strengthening our position as a leading 
international designer, manufacturer and distributor of 
quality POU water dispensers and enhanced the future 
quality of earnings through increasing recurring revenues. 
We also increased our global presence through signing 
up new distribution partners in three new territories, by 
acquiring a major platform acquisition in Australia and by 
adding two businesses in segments where we already had 
wholly owned direct sales operations, namely in Germany 
and the UK. In addition, we introduced a number of new 
products, including the global launch of the WL3, and 
modified our trading approach to help our distributors 
grow through increased technical and marketing support.
We also invested in our infrastructure and added talented 
people to our company in order to achieve our objectives. 
This included recruiting several employees focused on 
business development to our growing Consumer Division. 
During 2013 we saw the acceleration of the implementation 
of changes to our IT infrastructure, supply chain and web 
capabilities in order to build a strong base for sustainable 
growth and improve quality of earnings through recurring 
revenue streams. These plans, however, do not change 
our ongoing commitment to quality, customer service, 
and innovation.
This year the annual report and accounts incorporates 
the Strategic Report, in line with the revised reporting 
guidelines. These changes are intended to provide more 
effective communication with our stakeholders, through 
focused, relevant narrative reporting. These changes 
improve corporate accountability, which is consistent 
with our philosophy of providing more information than 
required. We will continue to evaluate our communications 
and identify ways in which we can further engage 
with stakeholders.
Results
The Group delivered solid results with revenues increasing 
by 22.9 per cent to $124.0 million, and organic revenue 
growth of 4.1 per cent (3.5 per cent at constant currency). 
This organic growth is coupled with increased recurring 
rental and service revenue, which now represents 
40.2 per cent of total Group revenue. Net cash from 
operating activities increased by 8.5 per cent to $7 .5 million, 
and adjusted EBITDA increased by 41.3 per cent to 
$19.5 million. Most pleasing was the successful 
integration of our largest ever acquisition, which has 
delivered results in accordance with expectations.  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 09
Board and governance
The Board recognises the value and importance of effective 
corporate governance and, in recognition of the revised 
reporting requirements, has expanded our corporate 
governance section to provide improved transparency. 
Of the range of responsibilities the Board has, I have 
previously established a number that are clear priorities, 
and we remain firmly focused on these key areas. These 
priorities are: firstly to debate and agree our strategy and 
hold the executive team accountable for its execution; 
secondly, to ensure we have the right team in place to 
execute this strategy and to plan for succession; and 
thirdly to ensure that good corporate governance is part 
of our culture.
This year, we have made an internal promotion to 
strengthen our executive team on the Board. Robert Bell 
was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer after 
two years with Waterlogic. 
The composition of the Board is kept under regular review 
to ensure that we have the appropriate skills to improve 
the Group’s performance and to provide clear leadership. 
The Board currently comprises three Executive Directors 
and four Non-Executive Directors. Of these four, the Board 
considers three to be independent. The Board comprises 
business leaders from a diverse range of sectors including 
accounting, banking, investing and management consulting. 
During the year, the Board has provided robust challenge 
and support to the Executive Directors to ensure that our 
vision is properly developed and well delivered.
At Waterlogic we endeavour to maintain high levels of 
trust and transparency with our stakeholders. Operating 
our business in this way enables us to be open about 
our successes and also open when we fall short of 
expectations or targets. With nine acquisitions over 
the last two years, we have worked hard on delivering 
M&A integration as well as organic growth in the existing 
business. 2013 has seen a solid performance from our 
Commercial Division including the successful integration 
of our largest ever acquisition in Australia, increased 
recurring revenues and sales both direct and through 
our dealer network. During 2013, our Consumer Division 
realigned its strategy from supplying only OEMs to the 
inclusion of international distribution networks, which 
resulted in a slower take-off in 2013 but should, in the 
longer term, build higher brand loyalty and improve 
margins. The Board remains confident in the growth 
potential of the Consumer Division and we continue 
to work hard on prioritising our growth opportunities 
to ensure future success.
Outlook
We expect 2014 to be another year of progress through 
a combination of organic growth and drag-through 
contributions from acquisitions in our core business 
of the Commercial Division, supported by continued 
growth in the Consumer Division.
In 2014 we will be focused on working towards meeting 
the needs and expectations of all our stakeholders. 
The Board and the executive team, led by Jeremy Ben-David, 
have been encouraged by what was accomplished in 
2013 and remain focused on further developing our 
business and how we conduct it by listening to our 
customers and staying true to our corporate values 
in order to fully execute our strategy.
We are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in 
our industry and deliver long-term growth to our shareholders.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our 
employees at all levels for their continued commitment 
and dedication to making this an exceptional company.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held in Dublin 
on 11 June 2014. Y ou will find enclosed with this document 
a Notice of Annual General Meeting and a Form of Proxy 
which you are requested to complete in accordance with 
the instructions on the form. My fellow Directors and I look 
forward to meeting you at that time.
Ariel Recanati
Group Non-Executive Chairman
4 April 2014
