 OVERVIEW
04 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
WATERLOGIC AT A GLANCE
DELIVERING CONSISTENTLY GREAT WATER
The sales team
We are continually strengthening our position as both 
a leading manufacturer and global distributor of POU 
water dispensers. This means more workplaces, schools, 
hospitals, hotels, restaurants and homes where water 
is refreshing and revitalising.
Our offices around the world allow us to concentrate on 
offering a local presence, leveraging distribution expertise 
and industry contacts to best service our customers’ 
needs. Waterlogic is in a prime position to bring pure 
water to even more consumers around the world.
The service technician team
Our technicians make installation easy, connecting the 
dispenser to the nearest water supply and completing 
the set-up. All our customers have to do is enjoy pure 
and refreshing water.
Service technicians 
ensure a high quality 
installation and great 
ongoing service and 
maintenance. Along 
with carbon filtration, 
Firewall™ and BioCote®, 
it’s all part of the 
Waterlogic approach to 
producing healthy and 
hygienic water.
We have a network of 
global offices, so we are 
well placed to deliver to 
customers worldwide.
Dedicated people, 
expert knowledge
Our R&D team ensures we are 
able to offer class-leading 
products, and offices 
worldwide allow us to bring 
the cleanest water to even 
more consumers
A wide range 
of solutions
Our range of products and 
services means that we are 
able to meet the needs of 
our individual customers
Highly specialist, 
effective 
technology
Our leading products contain 
some of the most effective 
purification technologies 
on the market
Ongoing customer 
relationships
We work with our customers 
from initial supply and 
installation through to 
service, maintenance 
and end-of-life recycling
01 Dedicated people, expert knowledge
Our research and development team ensures that we are able to offer the latest, 
class‑leading water dispensers. Our dedicated sales team help our customers make 
the right choice and our service technicians ensure our water dispensers are installed 
and regularly serviced so that healthy, hygienic water is continually assured.
Bringing good water to the home and business 
through our innovative water systems.
Whether the consumer’s need is for convenience, 
highly purified water or the regular controllable cost 
that is provided by a Waterlogic POU water dispenser, 
the service provided is paramount.
For Waterlogic, our service is an integral element of 
the proposition to deliver consistently good water.
Furthermore, installing a Waterlogic POU water 
dispenser can achieve up to a 72% carbon footprint 
reduction, a fact that is not lost on many of our 
customers, who are then able to report their move 
from bottled water to a Waterlogic dispenser as 
part of their organisational environmental and 
sustainability programme. 
Our vision
Delivering 
consistently 
great water
01
03
02
04 Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 05
02 Highly specialist, effective technology
03 A wide range of solutions
Waterlogic water dispensers are proven to create the purest 
drinking water there is. We’ve done all the research, design 
and thinking at the forefront of UV technology so all you 
have to do is sit back and enjoy pure and refreshing water.
Our three-stage approach to water purity:
Our POU water dispensers ensure the purest and healthiest 
water for our customers. Premium quality means great 
drinking water leading to better health, well‑being and 
performance from those who regularly drink it.
At work, the water dispenser can provide great hydration, which means better 
productivity. At home, our guarantee of 99.9999% purity means knowing that 
drinking water is safe. The customer can choose from chilled, sparkling, ambient 
or hot options, and there are high capacity models for even the busiest workplace. 
01  UV purification
UV purification is an essential part of our 
three-stage approach to making water better. 
UV light eradicates bacteria by destroying 
its DNA core, eliminating E. coli, salmonella 
and hepatitis, to name a few.
Now we’ve made our UV technology even 
more effective. With Firewall™, the UV lamp 
is positioned at the point of dispense, destroying 
99.9999% of germs, 100% of the time.
03  BioCote ®
Plastic surfaces surrounding dispensing areas 
of Waterlogic water dispensers are infused 
with a silver additive called BioCote®. Silver is 
a natural antimicrobial that neutralises the 
growth of micro-organisms, providing yet 
another layer of hygienic defence after 
filtration and UV purification. 
BioCote® protected dispensers are not only 
validated but also undergo continuous 
quality control testing to ISO 22196 standard at 
an independent laboratory. Waterlogic utilises 
the BioCote® brand as a guarantee of superior 
antimicrobial product protection.
02  Carbon filtration
Our carbon filters remove contaminants, such 
as chlorine, and other bad tastes and odours, 
but allow naturally occurring beneficial minerals 
to pass through the filter, maintaining the 
freshness of taste. Carbon is an effective filter 
because it grabs and holds on to impurities 
from pesticides, to lead, petro-chemicals to 
microscopic cysts, and removes toxins 
and discolouration.
Reverse osmosis
In certain parts of the world a different filtration 
method called reverse osmosis (commonly 
termed “RO”) is required. This filtration method 
effectively removes dissolved particles, such 
as acid, salts and nitrates. RO is generally used 
when the water source is unknown or the 
water is known to carry the contaminants 
listed above. OVERVIEW
06 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
WATERLOGIC AT A GLANCE CONTINUED
DELIVERING CONSISTENTLY GREAT WATER
Our POU water dispensers are currently sold in North and 
South America, Europe, Asia, Australia and South Africa. Waterlogic’s 
leading markets are the USA and Western Europe (in particular 
Germany and France), Scandinavia, Australia and the UK. Of the 
2.1 million new POU water dispenser and bottled water installations 
in the commercial market between 2005 and 2012, approximately 
77% incorporated POU technology, of which approximately 29% 
were Waterlogic products.
With offices and service centres spread across North America and Europe, and a network 
of distribution partners, we reach over 50 countries around the world and our reach is ever 
expanding. We have our own manufacturing facility in China and a joint venture manufacturing 
facility in India, which commenced production in February 2014.
04 Ongoing customer relationships
01
Initial steps
Installation, set-up and 
customer orientation
02
Service and care
Planned service and 
maintenance and general 
hygiene checks
03
Upgrades
Continuation of contract 
with potential for 
additional upgrades
Identification
Identification of customer need, 
matching the best solution 
from the Waterlogic range.
Our cycle of ongoing care ensures repeat customers:
$2bn
estimated business 
consumer POU market
$12bn
estimated home 
consumer POU market
over 
50
countries reached
over 
800
employees world wide Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 07
Clarion Hotel Stockholm
Clarion Hotel in Stockholm is part of Scandinavia’s largest 
hotel chain of over 160 hotels. There is a requirement from 
Clarion’s conference attendees that there is always water 
available. For Clarion it is important to save on personnel 
costs and time spent carrying water back and forth, and 
to have an environmentally friendly solution. 
The challenge
The hotel has been expertly designed, creating 
a magnificent building filled with light and space. 
T o complement this, the design and appearance 
of the water dispenser is a very important factor; it should 
be discreet. It must also be efficient and need as little 
care and maintenance as possible.
The solution
Clarion Hotel Stockholm chose to invest in Waterlogic 
WL4 Firewall™ machines that combine stylish looks 
with superior UV purification of Firewall™. Along with its 
smart looks, the WL4 water dispenser was selected as it 
dispenses high capacity, hot, cold, ambient and sparkling 
purified water. With the Firewall™ UV purifier technology 
the water cooler eliminates 99.9999% of germs, 
to guarantee really pure water for the hotel. 
The benefits
For this busy hotel, being Stockholm’s largest conference 
and hotel complex, the machines require very little 
maintenance, save the staff valuable time and provide 
peace of mind. The dispensers are also environmentally 
friendly, which supports the hotel’s environmental policy. 
“It is important for us to have great drinking water on 
demand when our conference guests demand it. For this, 
we need a dependable supplier and someone who can 
provide a high capacity and high quality dispenser. 
An operation like ours needs to do things properly, 
and this for us was an obvious choice.” 
Jakob Waern, Banqueting and Hosting Manager, 
Clarion Hotel Stockholm
Find out more about the types of customer we serve at 
www.waterlogic.com/applications
ORPEA Residential Care Group
A guarantee of optimum water quality to patients
The ORPEA Residential Care Group is a leading player 
in Europe in comprehensive care through a network of 
specialised institutions comprising retirement residences 
(nursing homes), clinical care, rehabilitation centres and 
psychiatric clinics. Its primary mission is to support those 
who have chosen to live under the care of a group that 
respects the individual’s right to comfort, dignity, 
individuality and independence. 
ORPEA’s mission is to continually seek ways to improve 
and optimise its services to residents and patients. In this 
context, ORPEA decided to replace all of its traditional 
water fountains with Waterlogic’s new generation of 
purifying water dispensers to ensure absolutely pure 
drinking water, every day, glass after glass, and carafe 
after carafe. The result of this action is that ORPEA 
achieved its goal of providing continual improvements 
in its services. 
How did Waterlogic help?
“Through its new generation of water coolers the Firewall™ 
range from Waterlogic brings three unique technological 
innovations (Filtration, BioCote® and Firewall™) to ORPEA, 
combining to guarantee pure water throughout the day. 
Waterlogic guarantees water: 
 w without microbiological contaminants e.g. bacteria, 
viruses and mould;
 w free of chlorine; and
 w with a stable mineral composition.
Our innovative Firewall™ purification system enables us 
to ensure that each user has a microbiologically optimal 
quality of water delivered glass after glass, carafe after carafe.” 
Philippe Barnetche, President, Waterlogic France
