 STRATEGIC REPORT
12 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
 Jeremy Ben-David
 Group Chief Executive Officer
“  Waterlogic has performed well 
in a competitive market during 
the year.”
Introduction
Waterlogic has performed well in a competitive market 
during the year. Revenue for the year increased by 
22.9 per cent from $101.0 million to $124.0 million, 
with acquisitions in 2013 contributing $11.8 million of 
this top-line growth and organic revenue growing by 
4.1 per cent (3.5 per cent on a constant currency basis).
Recurring revenues increased from $39.0 million in 2012 
(38.6 per cent of total revenue) to $49.8 million in 2013 
(40.2 per cent of total revenue). However, our strategic 
focus on increasing recurring revenues, whilst improving 
the long-term quality of earnings, has had the effect of 
lowering earnings and growth rates in the short term.
International Trading business revenue increased 
year-on-year by 13.9 per cent to $16.4 million, and we 
experienced organic revenue growth of 21.9 per cent in 
Germany and 3.0 per cent in France, demonstrating the 
strength of our business across the worldwide Group. This 
was partially off set by a 12.7 per cent reduction in Aqua 
Cure resulting from the loss of a filter distribution 
agreement. 
Machines in field grew by 17.2 per cent in the period 
(from 640,000 to 750,000), with the estimated addition 
of 110,000 units in field during the year, which is an 
important growth indicator for the business. 
We continue to pursue our strategies of growing 
our recurring rental base and achieving growth both 
organically and through strategic acquisitions. The 
acquisition in 2013 of Cool Clear Water Group (“CCWG”) 
in Australia is the Group’s largest to date and brings 
substantial recurring rental revenues and important 
growth opportunities for the Group. We are pleased to 
have the support of both Clydesdale and HSBC banks, 
which financed the Group in this acquisition.
Operations 
The Group is managed on the basis of segment 
performance, focused on the geographical location 
of markets. Operations are also reviewed on the basis 
of performance of the Consumer and Commercial 
Divisions separately.
The Commercial D ivision has delivered a strong performance 
during the year. We strengthened our position as a premium 
supplier of POU water dispensers and associated products 
through the three acquisitions made this year in Australia, 
Germany and the UK and with the launch of several new 
products. The acquisition of CCWG establishes Waterlogic 
as the clear market leader in the Australian POU water 
dispenser market, with over 30,000 machines in field 
at the end of the year and recurring rental revenue 
representing over 70 per cent of total revenue. The new 
products that were launched in several markets in the year 
are based upon the Group’s unique Firewall™ technology, 
with notably a new sparkling range of products featuring 
the technology launched in Europe.
In France, the Company launched a high volume POU 
water dispenser, incorporating the Firewall™ technology, 
which targets the important hotel, restaurant and catering 
In summary
 w Group revenue increased by 22.9 per cent 
from $101.0 million to $124.0 million.
 w Recurring revenue increased to $49.8 million 
(2012: $39.0 million), being 40.2 per cent of total 
revenue (2012: 38.6 per cent).
 w Acquisition of Cool Clear Water Group (“CCWG”) in 
Australia, adding over 30,000 dispensers in the field 
and over 11,000 new customers to the Group.
 w Machines in field increased to circa 750,000 
(2012: 640,000).
 w Successful worldwide roll-out of the new WL3 Firewall™ 
water dispenser. 
 w New distributors for the Commercial Division 
in Bulgaria, Italy, Lithuania and Chile. 
 w Progress in the Consumer Division, including 
product launches with Indesit in Italy and Turkey 
and a distribution agreement with ALCONIX Japan. Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13
markets. A new reverse osmosis filtration system, 
incorporating the Firewall™ technology, will be launched 
in Russia, Spain and the USA in 2014, and several new 
national accounts were acquired in Germany, France, 
Scandinavia and the USA.
The Consumer Division had limited success in 2013, 
but there were new product launches in Japan, Turkey 
and Italy. Revenue increased from $0.5 million in 2012 to 
$1.3 million in 2013. Orders outstanding at the end of 
2013 were approximately $0.8 million and these units are 
expected to be shipped in H1 2014. A new product launch 
is already planned for H1 2014 in the Middle East and there 
is a pilot launch planned via a major international retailer’s 
E-Commerce platform in Canada. 
The Consumer Division’s strategy of pursuing large OEM 
customers has been extended to include partnering with 
smaller high-end and geographically focused partners, 
E-Commerce and more direct-to-market strategies. 
The Group’s Indian joint venture factory began manufacturing 
Consumer products in February 2014, targeting the Indian 
Consumer market with Firewall™ products. The new 
Waterlogic Counter Top product for the Consumer 
and small Commercial markets was launched in several 
new territories and the roll-out will continue in 2014. 
The Consumer Division continues to pursue several 
opportunities around the world, although experience 
shows that planned launches have taken longer than 
we had originally anticipated. However, the Board remains 
excited by the opportunities in the consumer market 
and remains positive about its long-term prospects. 
Technology and innovation
During the year, the Water Quality Association (“WQA”) 
presented an International Award of Merit to our R&D team. 
The award was given in recognition of the development 
of the unique Firewall™ technology as a breakthrough 
innovation in water purification in POU water dispensers, 
which has revolutionised water purification and quality. 
The intense dose of UV purification at the point of dispense 
means that the customer can be assured of almost absolute 
purity every time they dispense water. The Firewall™ 
technology is the first of its type to achieve two stringent 
certifications, NSF/ANSI 55a (for UV purification), and  
NSF/P231 (for microbiological purification) and these 
certifications are due very much to the dedicated work 
of the R&D teams. We are convinced that Firewall™ 
is a revolutionary piece of technology and a genuine 
advance in water purification. The technology has 
enormous potential as there are a number of different 
applications that it could be applied to and it has 
a relatively small footprint that can be adapted to fit 
many existing technologies. 
The combination of the Firewall™ technology with our filtration 
and BioCote® antimicrobial protection technologies 
is innovative. Each of these technologies plays its part and 
the whole system combines to ensure the best drinking 
water that the consumer could want. Filters are an 
effective way of removing chlorine, sediment and most 
pathogens from the water, and our new filter system 
is designed so that cartridge housings can be reused with 
only the filter element (which is biodegradable) replaced. 
Our exclusive licence to use BioCote® in our water dispensers 
provides an additional defence mechanism against the 
potential degradation of key external parts. But Firewall™ 
is the centre piece of the Company’s technology suite 
and is a significant unique selling point for our sales team 
and our resellers. Firewall™ is certified as being able to 
guarantee 99.9999% pure water, 100% of the time, a fact 
that has been confirmed by over 5,000 physical tests 
in independent laboratories. Hence, we remain positive 
that with the best products on the market we are well 
equipped to grow both revenue and market share.
During the year our European Commercial team worked 
with our R&D team to develop a high capacity dispenser 
(called the Waterlogic Max Firewall™). This unit is particularly 
suited to areas where there will be a high demand for cold 
drinking water, for example in hotels, catering, hospitals 
and care homes or the education sector. By the end of the 
year we had sold over 1,000 units, and this dispenser was 
crucial in securing a significant contract with ORPEA, 
a national care home chain in France. Again this product 
features Firewall™, which provides the reassurance to 
the end customer that every touch of a button will provide 
pure water.
In certain parts of the world, a different filtration method 
called reverse osmosis (commonly termed “RO”) is required. 
This filtration method effectively removes dissolved particles, 
such as acid, salts and nitrates. It was therefore a natural 
step for our team to integrate the Firewall™ UV purification 
system with an RO system to create a “T otal Purity” solution. 
For certain customers, such as hospitals, this could prove 
to be a compelling proposition. Our first machine order was 
completed in the last quarter of 2013, and we had, by the 
end of the year, received significant orders from two 
of our key markets.
Essential to our strategy for the Consumer sector is 
a suite of products that will suit the varied needs of different 
households in different countries. Our compact, counter 
top dispenser, the Cube, is an attractive mains-fed unit 
featuring Firewall™, and despite its size can easily serve 
a large family (or small office) with cold, room temperature 
or hot water. End-user serviceability is an essential 
ingredient of the design of our consumer products. 
As such, our filters feature a patent pending “click-in, 
click-out” mechanism, making their replacement a quick 
and easy process that can be done by the consumer. 
Furthermore, we have developed a kitchen tap system 
which conceals the chilling and filtration system below 
the worktop, leaving only an attractive tap (which again 
contains our Firewall™ purification technology) fitted 
to the surface of the counter or sink unit.
One of the early projects from our joint venture with 
Eureka Forbes in India was to engineer our Firewall™ 
technology into one of their fastest selling and most 
popular products for the Indian subcontinent, called the 
“Infiniti”. This purifier is ideally suited to the Indian market, 
and it was an obvious decision to incorporate Firewall™ 
into the unit, with an immediate apparent benefit to the 
Indian consumer. The resulting upgraded product is 
called the “Eterniti” and is due for launch in H1 2014. STRATEGIC REPORT
14 Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
During 2014 we look forward to introducing more products. 
One project that is currently well under way is to introduce 
a dispenser similar to the Waterlogic Max Firewall™ (high 
capacity unit for hotel and catering environments) but suited 
to the unique needs of the market in the USA. Whilst this 
may seem relatively straightforward (considering we have 
equivalent products in Europe), the differing certification 
requirements, plus other factors such as electrical systems 
and localised customer preferences, mean that a specific 
development is required. 
A sparkling water Cube is also planned for launch during 
2014. This compact product will have all the significant 
advantages of the Firewall™ Cube, with the additional 
benefit of on-tap sparkling and purified water. 
Like many other industries, innovation and technology is 
a source of competitive advantage. This advantage needs 
protection and as such we have invested a great deal 
in protecting our intellectual property through patents, 
design registrations and trademarks. Notably we have 
focused on a few critical patents, but protected these 
in many territories. The Board at Waterlogic remains 
convinced that the Firewall™ has many other applications.
New products and services are the lifeblood of our business, 
and in order to maintain our market leadership it is our desire 
to continually improve our value proposition to our customers 
and prospective customers through our investment in R&D. 
With a 2013 R&D investment of $2,258,000, including 
$164,000 on certifications and testing, together with the 
deployment and involvement of our marketing and technical 
teams in our key markets, we can be confident in producing 
new products and innovations designed to keep Waterlogic 
at the forefront of our market. 
Product improvement is as important as new product 
development and our team of 20 engineers and the staff 
at our dedicated Water Quality Centre constantly ensure 
that our existing products remain effective and reliable.
Our marketing and R&D teams collaborate on the strategic 
roadmap for new products, and over the coming year 
we expect to see additional new developments being 
marketed. A few examples are additional sparkling water 
versions of our products and a new range update for one 
of our major strategic partners.
Acquisitions and asset purchases
During 2013 the Group completed three acquisitions, with 
a total consideration net of cash acquired of $56.3 million.
On 27 February 2013 the Group acquired Water Filters Limited, 
trading as Aqua Cure Scotland, a vendor of water filtration 
and water purification equipment based in Perth, Scotland. 
Waterlogic’s acquisition of Aqua Cure Ltd in 2011 was a 
strategic purchase to provide the Group with a complementary 
range of products. The acquisition of Aqua Cure Scotland 
expands upon this strategy, increasing coverage of the 
UK market by giving the Group direct access to the 
Scottish market.
On 7 March 2013 the Group acquired a further 23.85 per cent 
holding in Aqua Cure Limited, bringing its total holding in 
the company to 93.85 per cent. The Group retains an option 
over the remaining 6.15 per cent interest, which may be 
exercised up to 31 December 2015.
On 21 June 2013 the Group acquired the entire share capital 
of Cool Clear Water Group Ltd (“CCWG”), the leading supplier 
of POU drinking water purification and dispensing systems 
in Australia. The acquisition marked Waterlogic’s entry into 
the Australian water dispenser market.
CCWG is the clear market leader in the Australian POU market 
with over 30,000 POU water dispensers installed and, as 
such, the acquisition significantly bolstered the Group’s 
Commercial Division. With over 11,000 customers, ranging 
from blue-chip organisations to SMEs, CCWG is the only 
Australian POU provider with a presence in all Australian 
states. CCWG is predominantly a rental business, which 
further enhanced the Group’s proportion of recurring revenues 
and EBITDA margin. The consideration was satisfied by 
the payment of AUD$60.0 million (approximately $55.8 million). 
On 1 September 2013 the Group acquired the assets 
of Eauvell, based in Kiel, northern Germany. The transaction 
was structured as an asset purchase for a total purchase 
price of $0.4 million. 
Consumer product contracts 
The Consumer Division achieved $1.3 million in revenue 
in 2013 (2012: $0.5 million). The division also had outstanding 
orders to the value of $0.8 million at the year end. These 
products will ship before the end of H1 2014. 
In May 2013, the Group signed an agreement with ALCONIX, 
a well-respected trading company, for the distribution 
of the Group’s Waterlogic Consumer products in Japan. 
The five year agreement grants Waterlogic exclusivity 
for the supply of drinking water purification devices 
to the Japanese partner, which will in turn become the 
sole distributor of Waterlogic Consumer products to the 
Japanese Consumer market. The agreement has volume 
commitments in place for the first year and includes 
certain performance clauses. The volume commitments 
for the following years of the agreement will be 
negotiated in line with the Group’s expectations. 
The Waterlogic Consumer range of products was 
launched in Japan in November 2013. The products 
carry the “Waterlogic” and “Firewall™” branding for direct 
distribution and “OEM brand” and “Firewall™” for OEM. 
ALCONIX is distributing to the market through department 
stores, kitchen manufacturers and wholesalers, mail order 
catalogues and through healthcare organisations to the 
medical industry. The Japanese residential water treatment 
market is one of the largest in the world, valued at more 
than $2 billion, and represents a significant opportunity 
for the Group. 
The Indian joint venture with Eureka Forbes is progressing, 
with manufacturing started in the new factory, located in  Financial statements 41–96 Governance 26–40 Strategic Report 08–25 Overview 02–07
Waterlogic Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15
Dehradun, in February 2014. The Group remains very excited 
by the prospects of this partnership with Eureka Forbes 
and by the long-term potential within the Indian market. 
Waterlogic Consumer’s customer Indesit launched in Turkey 
and Italy. Although these launches were later than originally 
anticipated, Indesit plans to continue the roll-out in further 
European territories in 2014. Products were only available 
through retail channels since July and August 2013 but 
sell-through statistics are improving.
There have been delays in the deployment of certain 
other Waterlogic Consumer projects, with the most 
significant impact from one customer due to launch 
in H1 2014. New launches are planned for H1 2014 in the 
Middle East and a pilot launch via a major international 
retailer’s E-Commerce platform in Canada. 
Whilst the initial period of the Consumer Division’s revenue 
performance has been far slower than originally envisaged, 
management believes that the upside potential of this 
business remains very substantial. 
Management and staff
Following the departure in September 2013 of the previous 
Group CFO, John Skidmore, the Group promoted Robert Bell 
to Group CFO on 18 October 2013. 
Mr Bell joined Waterlogic in January 2012 as Director 
of Accounting, responsible for the Group’s financial 
operations and reporting, and lately acted as interim 
CFO for Waterlogic.
Mr Bell’s role as Director of Accounting has been replaced 
by a new Group Financial Controller, as of 20 January 2014.
The Consumer division has recruited senior marketing 
and business development management more suited for the 
new strategy of the division. Experienced executives from 
the “high-end” consumer market were recruited to the 
department and began employment as of January 2014. 
The R&D team has recruited a manager with significant 
experience and managerial capability. We continue 
to develop new products for new markets and I have little 
doubt that these efforts will be reflected in our future 
results, providing Waterlogic enormous potential 
for many years to come.
In order to achieve our international, multi-channel 
ambitions, it is essential we have the infrastructure and 
organisational capabilities to drive this growth. Since our 
Admission to AIM, we have made considerable progress 
in transforming the business by strengthening the 
organisational structure, increasing recurring revenue 
streams and attracting a pool of talented staff. The efforts 
of our management and employees continue to be 
exceptional. I would like to thank them for their relentless 
efforts in making Waterlogic a successful market leader 
in the global POU market. 
I believe that Waterlogic’s senior management objectives 
are aligned with shareholders’ interests. The Group’s PSP 
plan incentivises management to achieve compound 
shareholder returns as well as meet EBIT objectives.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
These KPIs are used by the Board to measure the success of the Group. Our KPIs have been chosen as the best 
measurement of the Group’s performance.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Revenue $61.2m $68.3m $84.9m $101.0m $124.0m
Gross profit $36.1m $41.8m $49.8m $61.3m $78.9m
Gross margin % 59.1% 61.3% 58.7% 60.7% 63.6%
Recurring revenue $17.8m $21.9m $27.0m $39.0m $49.8m
Recurring revenue % 29.1% 32.1% 31.8% 38.6% 40.2%
Operating profit $5.8m $5.8m $4.9m $2.3m $5.4m
Operating margin % 9.5% 8.5% 5.8% 2.3% 4.4%
Adjusted operating profit $6.3m $7.6m $8.5m $8.9m $12.3m
Adjusted EBITDA $11.0m $11.0m $12.2m $13.8m $19.5m
Net cash from operating activities $6.6m $2.3m $3.5m $6.9m $7.5m
