 5 5
Chairman’s statement for the year ended 31 March 2007
I am pleased to report the Group’s results for the year
ending 31 March 2007. This has been a year of continued
integration and consolidation from the Waterline team
against a backdrop of a continually challenging
refurbishment sector. The Group has continued to grow its
turnover focusing its efforts at the mid to high end of the
independent kitchen retailer channel. The sector’s principal
growth area continues to be at the high end price points.
During the year considerable efforts were made with the
aims to:
• Consolidate the Group as a
one-stop trade supplier
• Complete the integration of the
Coolectric ‘Liebherr’ operation
• Expand UK presence through the purchase
of Brian Donaldson Distribution Limited
• Continue our successful UK
Roadshow programme
• Develop our furniture portfolio with the
introduction of ‘Sigma’
I am pleased to report good progress was made on all the
above targets, maintaining the Group’s position as a key
player in the sector.
Overall turnover for the Group has increased by 11.9% to
£83.7m from £74.8m in the previous year. The gross margin
has increased to 24.8% in line with expectations.
The Group’s operating profit decreased by 15.4% to £1.62m
compared with £1.98m in the previous year. Profit before
tax decreased by 35.3% to £0.87m whilst basic earnings per
share fell by 56% from 5.05p to 2.54p. These results are
lower than those forecast at the time of the IPO due in part
to the increased logistical spend in the Coolectric business.
During the year there have been one-off costs for the
compensation for loss of office for two former operational
board directors, a stock adjustment within Coolectric,
excess IT costs relating to the completion of certain projects
and excess logistical costs related to the Coolectric
business. Due to the decrease in profitability and the
continuing requirement for investment the Board of
Directors do not propose a dividend this year.
Cash flow again continued to be strong with £3.2m
generated from trading operations. The Group’s net debt
position decreased slightly from £4.2 million to £4.1 million
although interest costs showed an increase as a result of
higher interest rates during the year. The acquisition of
Brian Donaldson Distribution Limited was financed from
internal resources.
The Board is confident that the investments made during
the year combined with management changes and the
acquisition of Brian Donaldson Distribution Limited provide
a platform for future growth notwithstanding somewhat
less buoyant trading conditions experienced during the
early part of the current year.
I would like to thank all our customers and suppliers
together with our own dedicated teams for their support,
commitment and enthusiasm during what has been a
challenging year.
Peter Dicks
Chairman
3 July 2007
Chairman’s Statement
