 Chief Executive’s report
Mark Ashton
WATFORD LEISURE PLC
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 06
Overview of the Season
The 2007/08 season was an exciting one for the Club as the football team competed 
once again in the Championship. Operationally we focused on completing the 
investment projects initiated during our year in the Premiership.
Prior to the start of the 07/08 season, we completed the improvements to the concourse 
and facilities, including opening the new V-Bar, in the Rookery Stand. In addition we 
refurbished the Executive Boxes in the Rous Stand as well as the other corporate 
hospitality lounges. In September 2007 we entered into a long lease with St. Pancras & 
Humanist Housing Association for the space behind the Rookery Stand and south and 
north-west corners. The housing association is responsible for building and operating 
164 key worker housing units which will provide much needed accommodation for 
nursing and other staff at the Watford General Hospital. The construction work is 
complicated by the fact that the stadium has to be fully operational on matchdays 
and we are indebted to the contractors, Kier, for working within these constraints and 
minimising the impact to the normal running of the stadium. As part of the project 
plan, the housing association undertook to build the foundation to the new southwest 
corner which will in time house the changing rooms, matchday control suite and other 
matchday facilities. We expect the contractors to hand over the south-west “shell and 
core” by the end of January 2009. 
One of the knock-on effects of the housing project is that we had temporarily to relocate 
the Club’s administrative offices. We moved into new premises in Tolpits Lane in July 
2007 on a short term lease. Whilst the new office has added to our administration 
costs, it has enabled us to bring together under one roof most of the Club’s operational 
departments including not only commercial staff but also the Trust, football recruitment 
and Academy.   
As the Chairman has explained in his statement, we face a significant challenge in 
managing down the Club’s cost base should we not get promoted this season as the 
parachute payments come to an end in June 2009. Whilst a new and improved TV deal 
has been agreed by the Football League, there is a big difference in the allocation of 
TV revenues to a Championship versus a Premiership club. The ever increasing player 
wage inflation, fuelled by the fantastic sums being paid to top Premiership players, 
makes the challenge of “balancing the books” in a Championship club that much 
more difficult. We realise that some of these things we have to do will meet with some 
criticism. However there are some decisions we just have to make in order to protect 
the Club going forward. On the plus side we are continuing to invest in our Academy 
and youth development. The Club prides itself on the number of its professional players 
who have come through the Club’s Academy. We not only have the home grown 
established first team players such as Tommy Smith, Richard Lee, Adrian Mariappa, 
John-Joe O’Toole and Lloyd Doyley but we look forward  to the future with optimism 
with Academy players coming through such as Jordan Parkes, Theo Robinson, Liam 
Henderson, Lewis Young, Billy Gibson, Ross Jenkins and Dale Bennett. Financial Review
Revenue for the year ended 30 June 2008 was £22.4 million (2007: £29.9 million) - a 
decrease of £7.5 million. This is due primarily to the drop in league funding following 
relegation from the Premier League. In addition the average match attendance was 
16,870 against 18,882 last season in the Premiership. The drop in average attendances 
flows through into lower ticket sales and to a lesser extent lower matchday catering 
income (albeit the home supporters spent more per head in the kiosks on matchdays). 
Cost of sales (excluding amortisation of player registrations) increased year on year by 
£1.4 million which is driven primarily by higher costs of running the football team and 
Academy. The amortisation and impairment charge on capitalised players’ registrations 
increased by £3.0 million to £5.8 million reflecting the new squad members brought on 
board in 2007. Administrative expenses decreased by £0.6 million to £6.2 million. The 
profit on disposal of players’ registrations of £7.4 million is comprised primarily of the 
sale of Hameur Bouazza’s registration to Fulham FC in August 2007 and Marlon King’s 
registration to Wigan Athletic in January 2008 together with appearance and sell-on 
payments for players transferred in previous seasons. The exceptional income of £4.6m 
relates to the lease premium received in connection with the 125 year lease granted by 
the Club to the St. Pancras & Humanist Housing Association for the key worker housing 
units at the rear of the Rookery Stand. Given the length of the lease, the transaction is 
being treated as an outright disposal and recognised in full in the Income Statement in 
the year of receipt.  
2008 2007
Revenue £22.4m £29.9m
Cost of sales £(21.9)m £(20.4)m
Administrative expenses £(6.2)m £(6.8)m
Other income £0.6m £0.4m
Operating (loss) / profit before interest, player trading, 
amortisation and exceptional items 
£(5.1)m £3.1m
Profit before taxation £0.4m £8.0m
Cash (absorbed by) / generated from operations £(5.7)m £5.1m
Wages to revenue ratio 79% 58%
League position (Championship/Premiership) 6th 20th
Business Review
The key financial and performance indicators are as follows:
WATFORD LEISURE PLC
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 07
www.watfordleisureplc.com     COMMUNITY CLUB 
  OF THE YEAR 
WINNER 2008 Chief Executive’s report continued
Mark Ashton
WATFORD LEISURE PLC
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 09
www.watfordleisureplc.com
Community 
During the 2007/08 season the Club was named as the Football League Community 
Club of the Year. This award is real recognition for Watford Football Club and its 
community partners and builds significantly on the Club’s family and community 
traditions.  For many years the Club has taken a leading role in the local community and 
has taken its Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) agenda very seriously. However, 
over the last two years the Club has taken a strategic decision to place community 
at the heart of the business and central to the Club’s longer term vision to be a true 
community partner.  
The WFC Community Sports & Education Trust (“the Trust”) now has a team of over 20 
full time members of staff and a 50 plus strong coaching team that is active across West 
Hertfordshire, Harrow and Hillingdon. The Trust has developed a wide range of projects 
utilising sport and Watford Football Club as a vehicle for engagement in education, 
health and social inclusion initiatives reaching over 100,000 participants per annum. 
The Trust works with a wide range of partners from the private, public and voluntary 
sectors, with partnership development being vital to its recent progress, expansion and 
national recognition at the Football League Awards. The Club supports the Trust in its 
efforts to represent the Club in local communities, making a positive difference to the 
lives of children and young people. The Club and the Trust together can be proud of our 
community work and we look forward to further enhancing our growing reputation in the 
coming years.    
On behalf of the Board of Directors I would like to place on record our gratitude and 
congratulations to Julian Winter, Rob Smith and their staff on the award and the 
progress made in the last year. 
Outlook
With our parachute payments coming to an end in June 2009, we have to walk 
a tightrope of balancing the ever increasing demands of fielding a competitive 
Championship football team with financial reality. I am confident that we will navigate 
through this difficult period and become stronger as we focus in on the Club’s traditional 
strengths of loyalty, family and community.  
 
Mark Ashton
Chief Executive
