 04 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report
Driving growth  
The Weir Way
Overview by Chief Executive 
Keith Cochrane
New product introductions, further benefits from cross-divisional collaboration 
and an expansion of our global sales and service footprint contributed to these 
results. We also benefited from accelerating our upstream capacity expansion 
plans announced in March last year and our focus on growing sales of the 
broader product portfolio. Successful delivery of our growth plans is due to  
the efforts of the more than 14,000 people who work for Weir and I want to  
thank each of them for their contribution. 
Against an uncertain macro-economic environment, conditions in our two 
principal markets remained positive. In mining, continued growth in emerging 
market demand alongside forecast shortages of key commodities triggered a 
significant pick-up in capital spending with a number of greenfield projects now 
underway across South America, Australia and the Asia-Pacific region. In oil and 
gas, North American upstream markets experienced further rapid growth from 
onshore drilling in oil and liquids rich shale formations with US domestic oil 
production at its highest level for nearly a decade and over US$80 billion of 
investment by exploration and production majors in this sector. In power 
markets, following the Fukushima incident, safety assessments delayed new 
nuclear developments and low levels of conventional generation new build  
and general industrial activity continued in North America and Europe.
2011 performance 
Overall order input, in constant currency, was up 30% with original equipment 
input up 36% as expansion of the North American frac fleet continued and 
procurement for greenfield mining projects commenced. Aftermarket input was 
up 25% as we benefited from increased activity levels across our main markets 
and market share gains across the broader minerals product portfolio.
Group revenues were up 40% on a constant currency basis, while the proportion 
of revenues from original equipment sales increased to 48% from 42% last year. 
Our upstream oil and gas operations more than doubled their revenues for the 
second year in succession. Together these contributed to a record profits 
performance. While operating margins were impacted by the swing to lower 
margin original equipment, this investment will provide an increasing installed 
base to drive future higher margin aftermarket opportunities. 
The Group has 
successfully advanced 
its strategy in 2011, 
extending its positions 
in the mining, oil and 
gas and power markets 
and adding business 
capability. Combined 
with effective execution 
in rapidly growing 
markets, this has 
resulted in a strong 
performance, achieving 
in two years our 
ambition set out in June 
2010 to double 2009 
profits in five years.  05
Across our divisions a number of notable successes contributed to the financial 
performance. In Minerals, significant contract awards were achieved in all mining 
markets, with South America particularly strong. The division benefited from 
growing sales of our enlarged mine dewatering portfolio and a broader range  
of ancillary products and services. In upstream oil and gas, rapid market 
acceptance of the new Destiny™ pump, combined with capacity and supply 
chain expansion, helped to gain market share in the fast growing North American 
market. Power & Industrial achieved a landmark contract win for nuclear control 
valves in South Korea and the 2010 acquisitions have contributed positively to 
divisional performance.
During 2011, we continued to invest in growth plans with around 2,000 new 
employees joining the Group. Investment in research and development increased 
by 24% to £18m, whilst capital expenditure of £95m supported growth plans 
including capacity expansion at Weir SPM with a further US$75m investment  
in capacity now underway for that operation. 
We generated free cashflow from continuing operations of £29m after significant 
investment in working capital and fixed assets to support business growth. 
Despite this investment, our return on capital employed increased by over  
2% as we leveraged our global operating platform in delivering this growth.  
Following the year end, the balance sheet has been strengthened by the issue  
of attractively priced long term debt to refinance short term bank debt taken on  
to fund the Seaboard acquisition and provide additional financial resources.  
We retain financial flexibility to pursue both organic growth initiatives and  
further acquisition opportunities in line with our strategy.
Group strategy and business model 
The Group will continue to extend its position in the minerals, oil and gas and 
power sectors and aims to deliver growth ahead of these end markets. These  
are high growth, long cycle markets with positive fundamentals. This strategy  
is delivered through sustainable organic growth supplemented by targeted 
acquisitions consistent with our disciplined financial criteria. We invest in people, 
technology and infrastructure to develop and maintain the strong and lean 
operating platform from which we grow market share and create competitive 
advantage. Our strategy is underpinned by our three pillars - Innovation, 
Collaboration and Global Capability. 
During 2011 we continued to make good 
progress against our key priorities:
•  Took new major products such as the 
Destiny™ and Warman
®
 WBH
®
 pumps 
successfully to market. 
•  Established the Weir Advanced Research 
Centre to provide technological competitive 
advantage.
•  Captured market share with strong growth in 
sales of the dewatering portfolio and ancillary 
products and services in minerals markets and 
in upstream oil and gas markets through new 
products and operational responsiveness.
•  Accelerated growth with strategically aligned 
and value-enhancing acquisitions in South 
Korea and the North American upstream  
oil and gas sector. 
•  Extended the Group’s presence in fast 
growing economies through the growth  
of the Indian and Chinese operations. 
•  Invested over £95m in capital expenditure 
to improve operating efficiency, customer 
focus and extend manufacturing and service 
capability including: 
• Investment in manufacturing and service  
 capacity in North American upstream   
 operations to address demand for pressure  
 pumping and related flow control equipment 
• Growing the global sales and service   
 footprint with new facilities in Europe,  
 Africa,  North America and Asia-Pacific.
Revenue
£2,292m
Up 40%
Operating profit
1
£413m
Up 33%
1
  Continuing operations adjusted to exclude  
exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
Continuing operations
Group Executive (pictured)
From left to right: Gavin Nicol (Director of Operations Support and Development), Alan Mitchelson (Legal & Commercial Director),  
Keith Cochrane (Chief Executive), Steve Noon (Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director), Pauline Lafferty (Director of Human Resources),  
Dean Jenkins (Power & Industrial Divisional Managing Director), Scot Smith (Minerals Divisional Managing Director), Jon Stanton (Finance Director) 06 The Weir Group PLC
Weir provides mission critical engineering solutions that can operate in highly 
abrasive environments and require specialised service and support, often in 
remote locations. Engineering expertise, supply chain quality and global support 
capability provide the operating context for our business model. This focuses  
on supplying innovative and highly engineered original equipment to grow an 
installed base which in turn provides future aftermarket opportunities, enabling 
exposure to customers capital and operating budgets and providing resilience  
in cyclical markets. 
Driving growth 
The Group has made good progress against its strategic priorities throughout  
the year. Each division introduced new products during the period, including  
the launch of enhanced core products for the Oil & Gas and Minerals Divisions. 
We have invested in engineering resources across our divisions, recruiting more 
engineers and developing Group-wide engineering initiatives. The Weir Advanced 
Research Centre, aimed at developing breakthrough technologies in the form of 
new products and enhancements to existing products for our key markets was 
established during the year and a number of projects are underway. All three 
divisions have worked together to ensure that the full capability of the Group  
can be brought to bear on the markets that we serve with the upstream oil and 
gas sector an area of particular focus through the work of the Oil & Gas Forum,  
which brings together cross-divisional technical and market expertise to  
target growth opportunities. 
In December 2011, we extended our presence in the fast growing upstream oil 
and gas markets with the acquisition of Seaboard, a leading US manufacturer of 
wellhead solutions and in February 2012 completed the acquisition of Novatech, 
a US supplier of pressure pump expendables. Seaboard broadens our product 
portfolio and service footprint in attractive conventional and unconventional 
markets and acquisition integration is now well underway. The acquisition of  
a majority stake in HIM Tech, now Weir International, a South Korean valves 
manufacturer, expands our control valve expertise and provides access to the 
domestic market and Korea’s successful international engineering contractors. 
Our priority of driving growth in our Indian and Chinese businesses has 
progressed, with a 65% increase in like-for-like revenues and a growing 
contribution to the best-cost sourcing activities of the Group. 
This progress has been supported by an ongoing focus on operational 
excellence and functional initiatives. A number of procurement activities were 
introduced during 2011 which will increase the efficiency of the supply chain in 
2012 and enable the Group to better leverage its purchasing power. Improving 
metrics for the Weir Commercial System, Weir Production System and Net 
Promoter Score demonstrate our continued focus on customer service and  
the application of a lean philosophy across our operating platform. 
People 
Keeping our people safe remains our number one priority. Following a strong 
performance in 2010, our safety record during 2011 was disappointing. The 
imperative to improve led to a reinvigorated focus on safety across the Group 
and an improved performance in the second half of the year. An Environment, 
Health and Safety (EHS) excellence committee has been established under the 
leadership of the director of operations support and development. The committee 
has introduced a number of important initiatives to ensure adherence to high  
and globally consistent standards in health and safety practices across  
our operations. 
3-fold strategy
 
Earnings per share
1
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report
INNOvATIvE  
SOLUTIONS
COLLABORATIvE 
MINDSET
GLOBAL  
CAPABILITy
1
2
3
1
   Continuing operations adjusted to exclude 
exceptional items & intangibles amortisation
20
140
40
60
80
100
120
2010 2009 2011
133.6p
100.4p
64.1p  07
Strong progress was made during 2011 on the priority of developing the 
capability of our people as the Group continues to grow in size, complexity and 
geographical reach. Key senior management appointments were made focused 
on operational support and talent development. A consistent management and 
leadership development framework aligned to the Weir strategy was also 
established during the year, creating a talent pipeline to support the present  
and future capability needs of our global operations. 
Finally, I am proud of the professional and responsive way in which our people 
acted to evacuate safely colleagues and contractors from Libya at the onset of 
unrest in February 2011.
Outlook 
The Group remains well positioned to benefit from the medium term growth 
prospects of our end markets despite the uncertain global economic environment:
•  Demand for minerals, oil and gas and power is underpinned by the continuing 
population growth and industrialisation of major developing economies such  
as China and India.
•  The development of the world’s growing unconventional oil and gas resources 
will provide greater energy security for many countries.
•  Industrialisation, environmental concerns and ageing power plants will 
accelerate the need for new and refurbished power infrastructure in both  
the developed and developing world.
We will maintain our focus on our three strategic pillars and continue to drive 
operational excellence throughout the Group. In 2012, we aim to grow ahead  
of our end markets by:
•  Successfully integrating Seaboard and Novatech to leverage products,  
skills and geographic reach.
•  Delivering on our Weir SPM multi-site expansion plans and adding capacity  
in the Minerals Division.
•  Building on the new products momentum with a specific focus on Oil & Gas 
Forum initiatives. 
•  Enhancing supply chain performance to drive operational efficiency and 
increase customer responsiveness.
•  Improving operational and safety performance through ongoing investment  
and the work of the EHS excellence committee.
The Group enters 2012 with a strong orderbook and with our clear strategy  
and flexible business model we expect a year of further good progress  
consistent with current consensus expectations. 
Keith Cochrane 
Chief Executive 
29 February 2012
Around the world 
Top – Lord Smith, Chairman and Keith 
Cochrane break ground for the next phase 
of capacity expansion at Weir SPM in Fort 
Worth, Texas, flanked by Steve Noon, Divisional 
Managing Director, Weir Oil & Gas (left of 
picture) and Paul Coppinger, President,  
Weir SPM (right of picture). 
Bottom – Keith Cochrane lays the foundation 
stone for a new block at Gokul Primary School, 
Hubli, India, part of Weir’s commitment to 
supporting local education projects. Naveen 
Ganzu, Country Head, Weir India is in the 
foreground. 
