 04 The Weir Group PLC
Driving growth The Weir Way
Overview by Chief Executive 
Keith Cochrane
As I take on the role of chief executive, I am 
excited at the range of growth opportunities 
open to the Group. Each of our divisions has 
a clearly defined strategy to build our market 
presence and deliver outstanding customer 
service, while sustaining the fundamentals 
that have delivered success thus far.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report  05
The Group’s 2009 performance demonstrates the resilience of  
our business model and the benefits of a strong opening order 
book, diversified portfolio and strong cash generating capability.  
We benefit from exposure to positive end markets, geographic 
strength in emerging markets and a presence at the heart of the 
processing cycle. All these characteristics give us confidence for  
the future. The success of any business is down to its people and  
as I visit our operations, I continue to be most impressed at the  
very evident commitment, pride and passion of our employees.
Our installed base of original equipment delivers an aftermarket 
channel that enables us to stay close to customers and this 
business model provides access to both capital and operating 
expenditure. Our service, spares and support activities ensure  
that we build ongoing relationships with customers and can be 
responsive to their needs.
2009 performance 
Overall order input, in constant currency, was down 18% while 
aftermarket input was down 2%, reflecting production activity  
levels in our main markets offset by our growing installed base  
and the greater importance of maintenance and refurbishment  
of existing equipment.
The proportion of revenues from aftermarket sales increased to 
54%, which, together with the early actions taken to reduce the 
cost base during the year, largely mitigated the impact of lower 
volumes of original equipment on operating profits.
Revenue also benefited from a positive foreign currency effect  
with over 90% of the Group’s revenues generated internationally. 
Our South American Minerals operations delivered a record 
operating performance and we won a number of notable contracts  
in the Chinese nuclear new build and Middle East downstream oil 
and gas refining markets. We also retained the Canadian Naval 
Engineering contract for a further 15 years. Positive emerging 
trends at Weir SPM were also evident towards the end of the year.
During 2009 we continued to make good 
progress against our key priorities:
•  Strong management focus on health and 
safety resulted in a 52% reduction in lost  
time accidents. 
•  Overall operating efficiency (the Weir 
Production System Lean score) improved  
by over 9%.
•  On time delivery improved by 10%.
•  Working capital reduced by £66.2m,  
converting into cash.
•  The Customer Key Account programme and 
the Weir Commercial System were rolled out 
across the Group, along with a pilot project to 
obtain direct customer feedback using  
Net Promoter Score methodology. 
•  Continued investment in product research  
and development. 
• In Minerals, design work was completed  
 on Warman
®
 pump enhancements. 
• Weir SPM launched the Safety Iron  
 Manifold Trailer
®
. 
• Completed customer acceptance testing  
 of a nuclear grade butterfly valve. 
•  Over £40m was spent on capital to improve 
operating efficiency and extend the Group’s 
global presence. 
• A new foundry and rubber facility was   
 opened in Brasil. 
• New service centres were opened in North  
 and South America and Africa.
Revenue
£1,390m
Up 3%
Operating profit
1
£204.7m
Up 11%
1
 Adjusted to exclude intangibles amortisation
Group Executive (pictured)
From left to right: Scot Smith (Minerals Divisional 
Managing Director), Steve Noon (Oil & Gas 
Divisional Managing Director), Keith Cochrane 
(Chief Executive), Phil Clifton (Power & Industrial 
Divisional Managing Director), Alan Mitchelson 
(Legal & Commercial Director).
Continuing operations 06 The Weir Group PLC
Early and effective action was taken across the Group to manage 
the downturn. Detailed planning resulted in a global headcount 
reduction of around 600 in response to local input reductions.  
Such decisions in relation to employees are not taken lightly and have 
been restricted to those companies most affected by the downturn.
We delivered an excellent cash performance and substantially 
increased free cashflow to £141.1m. Our balance sheet has been 
strengthened by the issue of US$250m of long term debt and we 
took further positive steps to reduce our pension liabilities through 
an enhanced transfer offer to certain members of the main UK 
defined benefit plan. The Group has substantial financial headroom 
to support organic development and expand its presence across 
target markets.
Group strategy 
The Weir Group, with its strong positions in very attractive end 
markets, extensive global presence and dedication to operational 
disciplines, has an excellent platform for growth. We will continue 
to extend the Group’s position in the Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power 
sectors, all of which are high growth, long cycle markets with 
positive fundamentals. 
Our strategy will be delivered through sustainable self-made growth 
supplemented by skilfully integrated, targeted acquisitions. We will 
invest in the technology, infrastructure and people to grow market 
share and our installed base of original equipment. This will include 
broadening our competitive portfolio of products and added-value 
services, with the emphasis on those products that will provide a 
strong stream of aftermarket opportunities.
Driving growth 
The immediate priority for 2010 is to extend operational 
excellence beyond the factory floor into functional areas that 
have a direct impact on our ability to grow and that support our 
continued drive for greater customer focus. 
The Weir Commercial System will be extended during 2010 and 
complements the Weir Production System that has delivered such 
good results in manufacturing. Both these tools contribute by 
sharpening customer focus and ensuring operational efficiency. 
With operational excellence prioritised throughout the business,  
we will generate growth through three key drivers. 
First, we will drive product sales through innovation and 
creativity. We will continue to take an innovative approach to the 
research, testing and development of new materials and products. 
Besides taking new products to existing markets and customers, 
we will proactively take our existing and developing portfolio to new 
markets and customers as we seek to build market presence.
3-fold strategy
 
Earnings per share
1
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report
INNOvATIvE  
ACTION
COLLABORATIvE 
MINDSET
GLOBAL  
CAPABILITy
1
2
3
1
   From continuing operations before intangibles amortisation
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2008 2007 2009
64.1p
59.3p
39.7p  07
Second, we will support collaboration in the form of co-operative 
alliances and cross-divisional initiatives to promote our total 
capability for customers in all markets and to leverage off best 
practice across the Group. We will continue to build customer 
partnerships and add value by delivering innovative engineering 
solutions with an integrated service offering and enhanced 
organisational capability.
Third, we will exploit and strengthen our emerging markets 
footprint. Over 40% of Group revenue already comes from 
developing markets in Asia, South America, Middle East and  
Africa. There are significant opportunities for us to internationalise 
more products through both our existing and expanding 
geographical network.
Outlook 
The Weir Group today has a superb manufacturing platform, 
resilient business model and enviable market position. This is  
based on our reputation for excellent engineering capability and  
the quality of our people, whose performance under pressure  
has been outstanding in the past year. 
Despite the impact of the current downturn, we continue to be 
positive as to the medium term growth prospects of each of our 
principal end markets and anticipate growing demand from:
•  Global demographic trends causing increased demand for 
resources and energy.
•  Continuing infrastructure investment in developing economies 
with fast-growing populations, such as India, China and Brasil.
•  Necessary replacement or life extension of ageing power 
generation and hydrocarbon processing plant in the  
developed world.
•  Increasing trend towards the unconventional supply of minerals 
and hydrocarbons which requires greater engineering input in 
both their extraction and processing.
As we enter 2010, the Group is in robust financial health and well 
placed to capitalise on market opportunities. Although the pace 
and timing of global economic recovery remains uncertain and 
forward visibility limited, we are now targeting a broadly similar  
level of profitability to that achieved in 2009.
Keith Cochrane 
Chief Executive 
9 March 2010
Around the world 
Top – Chief executive Keith Cochrane (centre) 
with Minerals regional managing director Rob 
Brown (right) and Stone Lu (left) managing 
director at Power & Industrial’s Suzhou facility. 
 
Bottom – Keith Cochrane opens the new 
foundry facility in Brasil with Alan Mitchelson, 
Legal & Commercial Director (right) and Minerals 
Brasil managing director Lino Figurelli (left).
