 02 The Weir Group PLC
Underpinning this were three main factors: the ability of our operations to execute 
effectively against our growth plans; positive conditions in the main markets that 
we serve; and our focus on consolidating and extending our positions in the 
world’s fastest growing economies. Whilst this is a business that always guards 
against complacency, the Group demonstrated during 2011 the strength of its 
business model and its ability, through the balance of its chosen end markets 
and operating geographies, to create shareholder value.
Revenues were up 40% and we are able to report an increase in Group pre-
tax profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles 
amortisation of 34% to a record £396m with cashflow from operations of £303m. 
We are proposing a final payment to shareholders of 25.8p per share, making 
33p for the full year, an increase of 22%. This reflects the Board’s confidence in 
the ability of the Group’s strategy, management and employees to continue to 
deliver sustainable growth.
An important theme of 2011 has been the progress made by the business 
in developing new products and enhancing underlying technologies. Whilst 
there has been strong momentum across the Group behind the other strategic 
priorities of collaboration and global capability, innovation has been a particular 
focus. Weir produces and supports technologically advanced products that 
are relied upon to function in many of the world’s harshest and most remote 
operating environments. Our passion for continuously improving these products 
and developing new technology to meet changing market challenges has 
resulted in a number of important new products and research developments 
during 2011. Innovation creates sustainable competitive advantage for Weir,  
high barriers to entry and is a key enabler of our continued aim to grow faster 
than our end markets. 
In addition to important organic growth initiatives, the acquisition in December 
2011 of Seaboard Holdings extends our leading position in the production 
and servicing of a wide range of surface equipment targeted at unconventional 
upstream oil and gas markets, with strong opportunities to take Seaboard 
products into new markets through Weir’s global networks. The acquisition in 
February 2012 of Novatech expands Weir’s offering in the fast-growing hydraulic 
fracturing pump consumables markets.
In a year of slowing  
global economic  
growth and considerable 
uncertainty in the 
eurozone, I am pleased 
to report that 2011 was 
a successful year for the 
Weir Group, delivering 
another record financial 
performance.
Structured  
for growth
Overview by Chairman 
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report  03
Doing business the right way means behaving with integrity, respecting the 
environment and the communities where we operate and providing safe working 
conditions for our employees and contractors. We have continued to focus on 
these commitments. The Group’s Code of Conduct and programme of training 
for Weir employees supporting the Code creates an ethical framework that is  
well understood and acted upon by Weir employees, wherever they operate.  
The Group’s sustainability initiatives have also progressed, with actions underway 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our businesses. A number of initiatives 
are in place to improve safety performance and bolster the safety culture across 
the Group. Our sustainability report on pages 54 to 68 provides more detail.
During 2011, the Board visited our operations in South America to develop a 
better understanding of one of our key markets. The visit reinforced yet again 
the major contribution made to the success of the Weir Group by our people, 
wherever they operate. The substantial investment this year in a new management 
and leadership development framework across the Group is a positive illustration 
of how we are developing talent across the organisation. A key element in 
sustaining the success of the Group lies in ensuring that the right people are in  
the right roles and that sufficient leadership potential is being nurtured throughout 
the organisation to enable effective succession planning. This framework will  
play an important role in developing and supporting these aims.
Central to the effective management of the business and maintaining the 
confidence of investors are high standards of corporate governance. As 
Chairman, I seek to ensure that the Board is as effective as possible and I believe 
strongly that this is the case. This year the issue of diversity was focused upon, 
considering how this applies both at Board level and throughout the wider 
organisation. The Board composition today includes experts in our principal  
end markets alongside City and relevant financial experience. Of our ten directors, 
one is female and one a foreign national. We will continue to consider the benefits 
of greater diversity, in balance with ensuring the best person is appointed to  
the relevant role. 
I would like to thank my fellow directors for their hard work and support 
throughout the year, including two new non-executive directors, Melanie Gee 
and Alan Ferguson, who added their skills and experience to the Board during 
2011. I would also like to thank three members of the Board who stand down 
at our annual general meeting in May. Michael Dearden, our senior independent 
director and Remuneration Committee chairman, leaves the Board after nine 
years and Stephen King, Audit Committee chairman, leaves after six years.  
Alan Mitchelson, Legal and Commercial Director, also stands down after 12 
years with the Group, 11 of those as an executive director. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank them for their excellent contributions to the Group. 
Lord Robertson will become senior independent director, Alan Ferguson Audit 
Committee chairman and Melanie Gee Remuneration Committee chairman.  
At the same time, Keith Ruddock, who is currently General Counsel for Upstream 
International, Royal Dutch Shell plc, will take over as General Counsel and 
Company Secretary.
As we seek to grow ahead of our end markets, concerns over the health of  
many of the world’s major economies continue. It is difficult to predict how  
strong these economic headwinds could become, but we approach 2012  
with the confidence that our clear strategy and flexible business model will  
enable continued progress. 
Lord Smith of Kelvin 
Chairman 
29 February 2012
Dividend per share
5
35
10
15
20
25
30
2010 2009 2011
The Board visits Weir Minerals operation in 
Jundiai, Brasil in October 2011
33.0p
27.0p
21.0p
