 02 The Weir Group PLC
I am delighted to report that 2010 was a 
highly successful and busy year for the Group 
against the background of a still uncertain 
global economic environment. We delivered 
another record financial performance and 
enter 2011 with our largest ever order book, 
a clear strategy and ambitious plans to drive 
future growth.
The results reflect the benefit of our exposure to three growing sectors 
with positive medium term fundamentals and an emerging markets bias, 
as well as a business model that focuses on the sale of original equipment 
products to provide a growing installed base for more profitable and  
resilient aftermarket sales. 
Revenues were up 18% and we are able to report an increase in Group 
pre-tax profit from continuing operations before intangibles amortisation 
of 58% to a record £294.7m with free cashflow generation of £79.9m.
We are proposing a final payment to shareholders of 21p per share,  
making 27p for the full year, an increase of 29%, reflecting the Board’s 
continuing confidence in the Group’s prospects.
Our financial performance translated into a rising share price and our entry 
into the FTSE 100 index of leading UK listed companies in September, 
as investors recognised the strength of our business model and positive  
outlook for each of our end markets.
The Group has a strong operating platform to drive growth both through 
organic development and value enhancing acquisitions. We also have a 
clear and focused strategy to build our functional capabilities and prioritise 
product innovation, collaboration and global capabilities as key enablers 
of growth in our chosen end markets. I have been pleased at the progress 
made by Keith and his team in driving these initiatives across the Group, 
most notably with an increased commitment to research and development 
and investment in sales and engineering resources. 
Structured for growth
Chairman’s statement by
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report  03
On a less positive note, in December 2010, the Group was charged  
with, and pleaded guilty to, two charges of breaching UN sanctions in  
connection with a number of Iraq Oil for Food programme contracts 
awarded between 2000 and 2002. What happened at that time was 
wrong and as I said in 2004, when the Board first became aware of this 
matter, I am bitterly disappointed that this went on within the Weir Group. 
The Board is determined to achieve and maintain best practice in all  
areas of corporate responsibility and is committed to doing business at  
all times in an ethical manner.
Building on this commitment we have established our corporate sustaina-
bility priorities and report for the first time our carbon emissions footprint 
and revenues from low carbon sectors. During 2011 we will extend this 
and set carbon reduction targets for each business. 
I would like to acknowledge the contribution made by all employees 
to the success of the Group over what has been a very busy year. The 
heart of any business is its people and I am constantly impressed by the  
calibre of the men and women I encounter at every level of the Group. We 
are committed to providing them with a safe working environment and to 
developing their skills through a range of training programmes as well as 
attracting and retaining the best talent. I would also like to thank my fellow 
directors for their continued hard work and support. After 11 years serv-
ice, Alan Mitchelson has indicated his intention to retire from the Board 
prior to the 2012 annual general meeting.
The Group celebrates its 140th anniversary in 2011 and we are proud  
to recognise and celebrate our rich engineering heritage. From its founda-
tion in Glasgow during the Industrial Revolution, the Group is represented 
in over 70 countries and will continue to provide innovative engineering 
solutions to its chosen end markets in the years ahead. 
I am confident that the Group is well positioned to make further good 
progress in the year ahead.
Lord Smith of Kelvin 
Chairman 
8 March 2011
Dividend per share
5
30
10
15
20
25
2009 2008 2010
27.0p
21.0p
18.5p
James and George Weir
