 This highlights the many levers available to the Group  
to create sustainable, proﬁtable growth, with some  
key themes underpinning our 2012 performance: the 
strategic focus on broadening our product portfolio and 
offering this through an expanding sales and service 
network; the pace of new product introduction; the ability 
to successfully integrate acquisitions and quickly realise 
beneﬁts; and, ﬂexing capacity and leveraging the Group’s 
collective skills and supply chain. Behind all these factors 
stands the contribution of Weir’s 14,000 employees.  
I thank them all for their efforts this year.
Our markets in 2012 
An uncertain macro-economic environment in 2012 
contributed to commodity price volatility, with mixed 
conditions in Weir’s principal end markets. In mining, 
emerging market commodity demand continued to grow, 
supporting ore production and historically high levels of 
capital spending. Despite second half customer caution 
on commitments to new greenﬁeld projects due to lower 
commodity prices, existing committed projects continued, 
with strong ore production levels, particularly in those 
commodities to which Weir has greatest exposure,  
such as copper and gold. A softer market for iron ore  
and coal in the ﬁnal six months of 2012 impacted projects 
in Australia and Brasil. In oil and gas, North American 
upstream markets were challenging as US natural gas 
prices fell heavily in the ﬁrst quarter and remained at 
historically low levels for the full year, prompting a switch 
from dry gas to oil and liquids rich shale formations, 
resulting in a low double digit decline in US onshore  
rig count with a rising oil-focused rig count partially 
offsetting the large reduction in dry gas rigs. Lower 
pressure-pumping market demand, combined with 
forward ordering in late 2011 in anticipation of higher 
activity levels, resulted in excess frac pump capacity  
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
Keith Cochrane
The Group has developed and enhanced its market 
presence in 2012, resulting in a good ﬁnancial 
performance despite facing challenging conditions  
in upstream pressure-pumping markets.  
A DEVELOPED 
AND ENHANCED 
PRESENCE
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 with aftermarket demand also affected by over capacity 
as well as lower utilisation rates and falling frac intensities. 
The pressure control market, where Seaboard operates, 
remained strong in the ﬁrst half of the year, albeit activity 
slowed slightly in the second half as rig count fell in the  
US and Canada. Outside North America there were early 
signs of encouraging growth in international pressure-
pumping markets and Middle East service markets were 
buoyant as Saudi Arabia increased production and the 
refurbishment of Iraq’s oilﬁelds continued. Power markets 
remained mixed, with global nuclear activity subdued as 
post-Fukushima safety reviews concluded. The low price 
for US natural gas has provided impetus to new gas ﬁred 
power projects in North America while opportunities in the 
hydro renewables market improved in the later stages of 
the year. General industrial activity remained subdued in 
Europe and North America. 
2012 performance
Overall order input in constant currency was down  
2% with original equipment input down 13% as the fall  
in demand for frac pumps was offset by procurement  
for greenﬁeld and brownﬁeld mining projects and  
a ﬁrst contribution from the Seaboard and Novatech 
acquisitions. Aftermarket input was up 9%, reﬂecting 
strong production levels in mining markets and market 
share gains across a broader aftermarket-focused 
product portfolio in minerals and oil and gas markets.
Group revenues were up 12% on a constant currency 
basis while the proportion of revenues from aftermarket 
sales increased to 55% with strong organic Minerals 
revenue growth offsetting the revenue impact of North 
American pressure-pumping markets. The Group 
produced another record proﬁts performance in line with 
our mid-year guidance, illustrating the resilience of our 
business model and diverse end market focus. Operating 
margins improved due to the revenue mix, continued 
operational efﬁciencies and effective cost control as well 
as reacting quickly to changing market conditions by 
realigning capacity and reducing headcount in those 
businesses most affected. We delivered on the key 
priorities set out 12 months ago, expanding our reach 
and improving capabilities across the Group.
This ﬁnancial performance was underpinned by good 
project activity in key mining equipment markets, 
particularly South America and Africa, despite a South 
African market affected by industrial unrest. Sales grew  
of the Minerals division’s broader product portfolio, 
enhanced during the year by the development of our  
own screens range and new product introductions, 
including the innovative Multiﬂo Highwall dewatering 
pump. In Oil & Gas, despite the challenges in North 
American pressure-pumping markets, Seaboard 
performed well in the pressure control markets and Middle 
East Service operations delivered a strong performance. 
We also saw the ﬁrst beneﬁts from the restructuring of  
the downstream business. Despite a relatively subdued 
global power sector, strategic momentum in the Power  
& Industrial division delivered strong input, output and 
proﬁt growth. 
We continued to invest in our growth plans during 2012, 
carefully targeting those areas with potential for strongest 
short and medium term returns. At the same time, we 
have implemented cost reduction measures in certain 
areas without jeopardising the ability of the business to 
capture longer term growth opportunities when markets 
improve. Capital expenditure of £116m supported plans 
to expand foundry capacity in Minerals and aftermarket 
component production and servicing in Oil & Gas.  
In Power & Industrial, we invested in a new aftermarket 
facility for the hydro business in Montreal. 
Working capital levels this year have been higher than 
those targeted at the beginning of 2012. A number of 
factors contributed to a build-up of inventory, the largest 
being the rapid change in North American pressure-
pumping markets. To address this, initiatives were 
launched in the second half of the year, with signiﬁcant 
beneﬁts expected to be seen in the next year. Despite  
this, free cash ﬂow from continuing operations was £62m 
and our return on capital employed was broadly ﬂat on  
a like for like basis. Our balance sheet remains strong  
and we retain the ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to pursue organic  
and acquisition opportunities in line with our strategy. 
>>
Revenue
£2,538m
+1 1%
Operating proﬁt
1
£486m
+18%
1. Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional 
items and intangibles amortisation.
IV
III
II
I
13 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Better pump performance
BETTER PUMP 
PERFORMANCE
A QUESTION 
OF CRACKING 
THE CODE
Processing and pumping abrasive  
material such as mining slurry needs to  
be carried out as effectively as possible. 
This reduces the prospect  
of unplanned maintenance, 
minimises power use and 
enhances throughput for 
customers. A number of variables 
affect this – pressure and velocity 
distribution of the fluid used and 
the internal geometry of the 
pumps and associated equipment. 
For a number of years, 
computational fluid dynamics 
(CFD) has proven effective when 
water is used in informing the 
design of pumping equipment. 
However, existing CFD software 
proves to be less accurate  
in measuring what happens  
to fluids within pumping plant 
when handling slurry. 
At the Weir Advanced Research 
Centre, our engineers are working 
alongside leading University of 
Strathclyde academics to develop 
and apply the optimum CFD codes 
for slurry handling. An important 
part of the process involves 
closely monitoring equipment  
in the laboratory and in the field  
to validate the differences in 
performance. Through this 
fundamental research, Weir 
believes this will create the most 
accurate code to date for software 
that helps to design and produce 
ever greater efficiency and 
performance for our customers. 
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
14 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Driving growth The Weir Way 
The Group has successfully pursued its strategic 
priorities during the year, strengthening our ability to 
become a partner of choice for our global customer 
base. We have integrated Seaboard and Novatech  
into the Oil & Gas division, with both businesses 
performing well in challenging market conditions. 
Seaboard supports our strategy of diversifying the 
Group’s upstream exposure to pressure-pumping  
into an adjacent market which will also beneﬁt from  
the long term growth prospects for unconventional 
production. Growth opportunities for Seaboard have 
been validated and the product range is already being 
taken to international markets. The management team 
has been strengthened with senior additions to deliver 
on these opportunities. At the end of the calendar year, 
we extended our pressure control presence in the drilling 
phase of the well lifecycle through the acquisition of 
Mathena, Inc. Flow control production capacity was 
added at Weir SPM, with the development of a bundled 
product offering gaining traction in the second half  
of the year. An initial phase of planned foundry expansion 
increases our ability to serve global minerals and oil 
sands markets with capacity additions underway at  
our European foundry centre in the UK. The innovation 
framework developed in the last two years continues  
to bring new products to market. The highlight in 2012 
has been the ﬁve new products launched for oil and gas 
customers, increasing our addressable market by some 
US$500m and leveraging market-leading technology 
from all our divisions into the North American upstream 
oil and gas sector. 
Value chain excellence
In this year’s report, value chain excellence is recognised  
as the fourth pillar driving Weir’s growth. This acknowledges 
its critical importance in helping the Group achieve its 
strategic objectives as we increasingly focus on replicating 
the strong progress made in the continuous improvement 
of our operational performance across all areas of the 
organisation. This year, good progress has been made on 
supply chain and procurement initiatives and the ongoing 
development of the people who work for Weir. While more 
needs to be done as we continue to strive for zero accident 
workplaces, a strong improvement was also made in our 
safety performance this year. Gavin Nicol, Director of 
Operations Support and Development, and Pauline 
Lafferty, Director of Human Resources, provide more 
details on pages 20 to 23. 
>> 
IV
III
II
I
15 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 The Gladiator Slurry Pump
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
Collaboration in action
COLLABORA TION IN ACTION 
THE GLADIA TOR
SLURRY PUMP
The Gladiator Slurry Pump is the latest proof of 
what can happen when our divisions collaborate 
to focus pooled technological expertise on the 
needs of customers in one speciﬁc market. 
These are the first pumps of  
their type produced by Weir for 
frac operations, blending and 
transferring a slurry mixture of 
water, gel and proppant. While 
developed for the oil and gas 
industry, these pumps owe  
their technological competitive 
advantage to the decades of 
expertise in slurry applications 
developed in our Minerals division. 
Using similar technology to that 
which has been used to great 
success in our market-leading 
pumping products used in mining 
applications, they enhance our 
presence across the oil and gas 
surface equipment market, directly 
plugging in to our existing product 
footprint across the frac site.  
The wear resistant spare parts  
of the Gladiator Slurry Pump are 
manufactured using the same 
alloy materials which are already 
proven to significantly extend 
equipment life in the world’s 
harshest mining environments. 
Compared to known slurry pumps, 
the new hydrodynamic design also 
extends the life of the critical wear 
components as well as making  
the pump more robust and easy to 
operate. Conceived and delivered 
through collaboration between the 
Oil & Gas and Minerals divisions  
of the Weir Group, we believe that 
the Gladiator Slurry Pump can offer 
customers a longer operational life 
than existing alternatives.
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Innovation 
Investment in research and development increased  
by 26% to £23m as the Group continues to invest in  
a pipeline of new products and product enhancements 
for our markets.
The Group has ﬁled around 40 patent applications  
this year, matching last year’s record number of  
new invention ﬁlings. In addition, in 2012 a number  
of collaborations have been formed with external 
companies to extend the technical capabilities  
of the Group. 
Our innovation efforts reinforce the critical sources  
of our technological advantage, chieﬂy the intellectual 
property associated with developing wear and pressure 
resistant materials, engineered hydraulics and, increasingly, 
technology that enables our customers to more effectively 
plan maintenance requirements. Taken together, this 
technology focus addresses key factors affecting our 
customers’ operational performance in Weir’s end 
markets. Across the Group, we have a product and 
technology development organisation to meet both short 
and long term strategic business objectives. Shorter 
term product development activity, with a time horizon  
of one to two years, is carried out at our many worldwide 
Design Centres of Origin, where a speciﬁc product family 
is continuously developed. Core technology platforms, 
such as materials development, are the focus of our 
global technology centres. Finally, fundamental research 
work is carried out at the Weir Advanced Research 
Centre (WARC) in Glasgow, as well as at various 
universities worldwide. Our global technology centres 
have continued to focus on improved materials for our 
markets and more efﬁcient and robust pump design.  
At WARC, good progress has been made on a major 
project that seeks to minimise wear, corrosion and 
erosion, increasing our understanding and helping  
to identify optimum solutions across manufacturing, 
materials selection, surface treatment and application 
processes and yielding patent pending technology 
related to ﬂuid end design, a key component used in 
pressure-pumping.
>>
IV
III
II
I
17 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 FROM COUNTRY 
TO CONTINENT 
GLOBAL CAPABILITY 
DELIVERS RESUL TS 
FOR P&I
During 2012, the Power & Industrial business developed 
a strategic relationship with Minerals colleagues in 
South Africa, taking its products from a single country, 
power sector focus to growing sales across the African 
continent and to customers in other sectors. 
Traditionally, the business had 
focused on power industry 
customers close to its facility  
in Johannesburg but dialogue 
between the two divisions in  
South Africa resulted in the 
Minerals sales team promoting 
Power & Industrial’s range of 
valves. Weir Minerals boasts wide 
geographical coverage across the 
African continent, with access to  
a greater number of customers. 
Cross-selling has benefited both 
divisions. Minerals has successfully 
introduced BDK industrial valves 
to the mining industry, while Power 
& Industrial has secured orders  
for Isogate slurry valves from local 
power stations. 
Participation in sales conferences, 
training and joint marketing 
initiatives have all supported this 
effort and the Power & Industrial 
service centre in South Africa  
is now located on the Minerals 
division’s Middelburg site where 
the facilities work hand-in-hand.
Tapping into the Group’s broad 
capability in Africa has also 
extended beyond customer-facing 
activities. Power & Industrial is 
now part of a bigger entity with 
stock and inventory management 
transferred to Weir Minerals, 
meaning greater buying power  
and resource utilisation across  
the two businesses. 
Development of this broadened 
capability has seen input from 
Power & Industrial South Africa 
increasing by almost 30% and 
output by nearly 70% in 2012.  
The business will continue to 
harness the Weir resources  
that exist across the region as it 
expands into new geographical 
territories and industries. 
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION 
WORLDWIDE
From country to continent
Directors’ Report: Review of the year
18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 not live image
Collaboration
Providing engineering solutions works best when 
delivered in partnership with customers. Weir seeks to 
achieve this by ensuring that the structures are in place  
to ensure all our end markets beneﬁt from pooling the  
full potential of each of our divisions. During 2012 we  
have focused effort on reducing operational costs and 
complexity for customers, recognising the impact of more 
challenging economic conditions on their businesses.  
This has translated into a number of responses: providing 
greater depth of service and expertise closer to where  
it is needed to ensure minimum operational disruption; 
creating new delivery models to suit customer budgets, 
such as equipment rental contracts; and putting 
customers and Weir engineers together at an early stage 
as we develop new products, with extensive ﬁeld testing 
carried out during the year, enabling ﬁrst-hand customer 
feedback. Weir has also assisted clients in building skills 
capacity, for example working with Shell-operated PDO 
Oman to upgrade and manage their workshops, with  
Weir mentors training young Omanis to gain professional 
certiﬁcation. Divisional collaboration efforts have also 
underpinned successful realignment of capacity in the US. 
Our Excellence Committees continue to serve the Group  
well, with functional cross-divisional teams ensuring the 
dissemination of best practice in those areas fundamental 
to strategic delivery: engineering, procurement, talent 
development and environment, health and safety.
Global capability
The Group has continued to grow its worldwide 
presence, ensuring that our ability to partner with 
customers wherever our solutions are needed is not 
constrained by capacity, expertise or technology. 
Investment began this year to expand Minerals’ foundry 
capacity, providing a stronger manufacturing presence  
in every key global mining market and enhancing 
customer lead times. Our aftermarket activities continue 
to be supported by a growing service network, which 
now numbers more than 150 facilities, with additions  
on each continent. As well as adding new locations to  
this network, investment has been made in machining, 
tooling and technology to deepen our aftermarket 
capabilities, offering customers greater support and 
further developing our competitive advantage. Product 
localisation has been a strong feature of the year, with 
two examples being Weir International South Korea’s 
contribution to the development of a global valves 
platform and the production in India of our own 
mechanical seals range. Across the Group, effective  
use has been made by all divisions of the shared global 
footprint, with Minerals facilities in South Africa and 
Australia being successfully used by Power & Industrial 
to gain a strong foothold in these markets. 
Outlook
Across the medium term, the Group is positioned to 
beneﬁt from the growth prospects of our end markets 
despite an uncertain global economic environment:
 – Demand for the ﬁnite resources of minerals and oil and 
gas is underpinned by the continuing population growth 
and industrialisation of major developing economies.
 – Development of the world’s unconventional oil and gas 
resources will provide greater energy security for many 
countries and support industrial competitiveness.
 – Power infrastructure in both the developed and 
developing world will require refurbishment and 
replacement due to environmental concerns and 
ageing plant, with new build power stations required 
to address predicted structural power shortages  
in developing markets.
In 2013, we aim to grow ahead of our end markets by:
 – continuing to enhance supply chain performance to 
increase customer responsiveness and beneﬁt from 
Group leverage;
 – capturing North American and international pressure 
control growth opportunities; 
 – extending Minerals’ presence in comminution markets;
 – implementing and driving growth through an 
integrated global valves platform;
 – delivering an enhanced IT platform to support 
collaboration;
 – improving working capital performance to  
enhance returns.
In 2013, despite more challenging markets, the Group  
will continue to deliver proﬁtable growth through new 
product introductions and a range of operational initiatives. 
Assuming a gradual economic and end market improvement, 
we expect to deliver low single digit revenue growth and 
broadly stable margins in 2013 with lower ﬁrst half proﬁts 
offset by growth in the second half. Alongside substantially 
higher cash generation the Group plans the eighth 
consecutive year of double digit dividend growth.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive
27 February 2013
IV
III
II
I
19 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
