 02 The Weir Group PLC
I am delighted to report, that in a difficult global 
economic environment, the Weir Group has 
performed strongly in 2009 with the resilience 
of our business model evident in these results. 
We delivered a record underlying profit and 
an exceptional cash performance and enter 
2010 in robust financial health.
With revenues up 3%, we were able to report an increase in 
Group pre-tax profit from continuing operations, before intangibles 
amortisation, of 6%, to a record £187.0m and generated free cash 
flow after dividend payments of £141.1m, despite seeing order 
input in constant currency fall by some 18% on 2008.
We are proposing a final dividend payment to shareholders of 
16.2p per share, making 21.0p for the full year, an increase of 14%, 
reflecting the Board’s continuing confidence in the Group’s business. 
These results reflect the successful transformation of the Group 
under Mark Selway’s leadership, encompassing operating 
improvements and a strategic re-alignment into the three higher 
growth, higher margin, long cycle sectors of mining, oil and gas, 
and power. Over the last eight years, earnings have increased 
more than four times, the share price has trebled and dividends 
to shareholders increased by 81%. On behalf of the Board, 
our employees and all shareholders, I would like to thank Mark 
personally for his outstanding contribution to the success of the 
Group and wish him well in his new role back home in Australia.
As we move forward, the Group has a strong operating platform to 
drive growth both through organic development and value enhancing 
acquisitions. It also has a number of significant advantages. We 
have a clear and focused strategy targeted at three end markets 
with positive fundamentals, driven principally by emerging market 
growth. The Group’s extensive installed base of original equipment 
products continues to grow and provides an increasing platform 
for more profitable and resilient aftermarket sales. It also provides 
exposure to both end market capital investment trends and 
underlying market activity levels. 
Structured for growth
Chairman’s statement by
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report  03
We have a strong balance sheet, are highly cash generative 
and took early action to manage our way through the economic 
downturn. Over the past few years, we have also put our pension 
plans on a sustainable footing. 
The Board is determined to achieve and maintain best practice  
in all areas of corporate responsibility and sustainability, including  
all aspects of health and safety. It was pleasing therefore to see  
the progress made in these areas during the year and they remain  
a key focus for the management team with further initiatives  
already underway.
There have been a number of changes to the Board during 
the year. I was pleased to announce the appointment of Keith 
Cochrane as chief executive and the subsequent seamless 
transition following Mark Selway’s decision to leave in September 
2009. The appointment of Jon Stanton to replace Keith as finance 
director was announced in January 2010 and Jon is expected to 
join us in April. We welcomed as a new non-executive director 
Richard Menell who brings valuable experience to the Board 
particularly from a mining perspective. Ian Percy will retire from  
the Board in April 2010 after more than 13 years of service and I 
would like to thank him for his valuable contribution to the Group 
over that period. The Board has benefited from his wisdom, 
guidance and perspective. 
I would also like to thank all our employees for their dedication,  
hard work and commitment to the success of the Group over  
what has been a very demanding year. Skilled and dedicated 
people are the cornerstone of the Group’s success and we are 
continuing to develop ways to create an environment in which  
we excel at all that we do.
The pace of global economic recovery during 2010 remains 
uncertain, but I strongly believe that our business is particularly  
well placed to respond to the challenges and to take advantage  
of the opportunities that will undoubtedly arise. 
Lord Smith of Kelvin 
Chairman 
9 March 2010
Dividend per share
Mark Selway 
Appointed chief executive in 2001, stepped 
down from the role in November 2009 to take 
up a similar position in Australia.
5
10
15
20
25
2008 2007 2009
21.0p
18.5p
16.5p
