 We are proposing a ﬁnal dividend payment to shareholders 
of 30.0p per share, making 38.0p for the full year, an 
increase of 15%. In 2013, we plan to continue the double 
digit dividend growth rate which we have delivered every 
year since 2005. This will be the 30th consecutive year  
of dividend growth for the Group. 
The 2012 performance was delivered against a background 
of testing conditions in the North American oil and gas 
pressure-pumping sector, one of our main served markets, 
and a signiﬁcant contributor to the Group’s growth in 
recent years. 
Focused, but diversiﬁed
To my mind, this tells us a number of important things 
about the Group. First, there are strong beneﬁts in  
the diversity of our chosen markets, ensuring in 2012 
that difﬁcult upstream oil and gas pressure-pumping 
conditions could be offset by the performances of our 
Minerals and Power & Industrial divisions. This diversity 
extends not only to our markets and divisions, but also  
to our operating geographies and our ability to drive 
revenues from both original equipment manufacturing 
and aftermarket support. This provides stable and more 
predictable earnings even in times of market volatility. 
Secondly, it highlights the ongoing relevance of the 
Group’s strategic pillars of innovation, collaboration, 
global capability and value chain excellence. This means 
that, despite operating in diverse sectors, all divisions 
beneﬁt from an increasing number of cross-divisional 
technological and operational initiatives, providing 
consistency across the Group and ensuring a return 
greater than the sum of the parts as we reap the  
beneﬁts of common supply chains and a Group-wide  
low cost footprint. 
Chairman’s Statement
Lord Smith of Kelvin
The Weir Group continued to perform well during 2012, 
borne out by revenues which grew 11% to £2.5bn and 
record pre-tax proﬁts from continuing operations, before 
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, of £443m, 
a 12% increase on 2011.
A STRONG PERFORMANCE
FROM A FOCUSED, YET
DIVERSIFIED GROUP
Directors’ Report: Overview of Weir
4 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 10
27.0p
2010
33.0p
2011
38.0p
2012
20
30
40
Finally, in addition to organic initiatives, the Group 
continues to beneﬁt from its strategy of accelerating 
growth through acquisition. In 2012, Seaboard and 
Novatech contributed positively with Seaboard 
establishing the Group’s position in the pressure control 
market. In December, we announced the acquisition of 
Mathena, Inc, expanding our pressure control offering 
into the drilling phase of the wellcycle, and completed  
the sale of non-core LGE Process. 
Strategic momentum has also continued in the important 
area of innovation during 2012 with a number of new 
product launches and also tangible evidence that the 
infrastructure put in place by the Group to develop  
new technology and establish a sustainable pipeline  
of innovation is bearing fruit. More details of the strategy  
in action during 2012 are given in the Strategic Review.
Our wider commitments 
The Group makes a signiﬁcant economic contribution  
to the communities where it operates. Since the launch 
of the new strategy in 2010, we have provided nearly 
3,000 new jobs worldwide. Weir also supports businesses 
in 89 countries and every continent through its supply 
chain. And as Weir continues to grow, the Board  
is focused on ensuring that the Group’s social and 
environmental responsibilities are met fully. How we 
support our own people and those in the communities 
which surround our operations, the actions we deploy  
to mitigate and minimise our environmental impacts  
and the example we set in the way we do business are 
fundamental to maintaining our licence to operate. 
This year, the rollout of the Weir Environment, Health  
and Safety system marks an important step towards  
world class safety standards across the Group and  
the introduction of a behavioural safety system at the 
beginning of 2013 recognises the emphasis placed on 
establishing a strong culture of risk assessment across  
the business. Each of our businesses aims to mitigate 
greenhouse gas emissions through a number of initiatives. 
Our emissions by turnover remained constant on the 2011 
performance. We remain committed to reducing our 
carbon intensity and an action plan developed towards  
the end of the year provides a strong platform to enable 
the Group to take the next steps on its sustainability 
journey. Finally, the Weir Code of Conduct continues to 
inform employees of the right way to do business: ethically 
and with integrity. Training on the Code is mandatory. 
The Board’s work programme during 2012 was 
extensive, providing a good overview of market 
conditions and operational priorities. As happens 
annually, we visit the Group’s operations to develop 
further our understanding of the business. This year,  
we spent time in Texas at our largest pressure-pumping 
business, SPM. These trips are invaluable to every 
Non-Executive Director, providing a chance to truly  
get under the skin of the Group’s activities. Once again,  
the quality and commitment of our people was self-
evident, with a growing number taking advantage  
of the opportunities provided by the Group’s recently 
introduced learning and development framework. The 
quality and commitment of Weir employees was also 
matched during the year by my fellow Board members.  
I would like to thank them for their contribution. Earlier 
this month, we announced the appointment of a new 
Non-Executive Director. Charles Berry joins the Board  
on 1 March 2013 and will add great experience and 
knowledge of international energy markets. 
If 2012 has taught us anything, it is that a challenge  
in one of our markets does not prevent the delivery of  
a strong performance from the Group. Weir’s geographic 
and market exposures, combined with the growing 
capability of the business, enable value creation in lower 
growth conditions. Together with a proven, tested 
strategy and business model, the Group approaches 
2013 with conﬁdence and a number of opportunities  
to continue to grow and develop the business. 
 
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman
27 February 2013
Dividend per share (p)
38.0p
+5p
IV
III
II
I
5 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
