 04 The Weir Group PLC
Driving growth The Weir Way
Overview by Chief Executive 
Keith Cochrane
Last year I said that the Weir Group had a 
superb manufacturing platform, resilient busi-
ness model and enviable market position. 
This remains as true today as it was then and 
our performance in 2010 demonstrates our 
ability to respond quickly and benefit from 
changing market conditions.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report  05
The Weir Group has been repositioned as a leading global engineering 
solutions provider focused on the mining, oil and gas and power markets. 
This focus together with a growing emerging market presence and  
continued commitment to operational excellence has contributed to these 
record results. We made good progress against the strategic priorities set 
last year, positioning Weir to continue to deliver above market growth. 
This success is underpinned by our people and I want to recognise the 
excellent work being done across the Group. 
I ended last year’s report pointing to an uncertain year ahead. Visibility of 
the pace and timing of a potential recovery was limited and I highlighted 
the proactive action taken in 2009 to manage the impact of the economic 
downturn, ensuring the Group had the flexibility to respond, no matter the 
demands of the economic climate. In fact, two of our three end markets 
saw a strong recovery in 2010, ahead of our expectations. The oil and gas 
shale markets in North America bounced back, benefiting from the 
increasing use of hydraulic fracturing, supplemented by a move to oil and 
liquids rich shale formations. Global mineral markets largely recovered, 
driven principally by China’s growing demand for commodities which  
in turn led to increased production volumes. In contrast, power and  
industrial markets remained subdued, with conventional generation new 
build activity in North America and Europe at low levels pending  
clarification of environmental legislation.
2010 performance
Overall order input, in constant currency, was up 39% while aftermarket 
input was up 27%. This reflected re-stocking in the first half of the year 
and increased activity levels in our main markets through the year.  
We experienced a significant pick up in original equipment orders in the  
second half as equipment utilisation levels improved and customers 
became more confident in the outlook for their end markets.
Group revenues were up 12% on a constant currency basis and the  
proportion of revenues from aftermarket sales increased to 58% (2009: 54%), 
as a result of the lower opening original equipment order book and the shorter 
cycle nature of aftermarket sales. This mix effect and a more than doubling  
of upstream Oil & Gas revenues had a positive impact on both operating  
margins and profits giving rise to a record financial performance.
We achieved some notable successes across all three divisions. In Minerals 
we saw strong progress across Asia-Pacific, Africa and South America with 
a number of significant contract awards and in Canada, we achieved  
our largest ever single contract award to supply equipment into the oil sands 
market. In upstream Oil & Gas, we gained market share in a rising North 
American market, driven by our responsiveness and the operational flexibil-
ity of the Weir Production System. Power & Industrial achieved good input 
from the nuclear market including a contract for the provision of specialist 
valves on the first US nuclear new build reactors to be built in 25 years. 
During 2010 we continued to make good 
progress against our key priorities:
•  Strong management focus on health and 
safety resulted in a 35% reduction in lost  
time accidents. 
•  Overall operating efficiency (the Weir 
Production System Lean score) continued  
to improve, this year by over five points.
•  Five value enhancing acquisitions were made 
through the year accelerating growth and 
extending our global presence. 
•  Continued investment in product research  
and development: 
• Minerals launched the next generation of  
 Warman WBH
®
 pump and developed   
 molten salt pumps for the solar market. 
• Weir SPM launched the new Destiny
™
  
 frac pump. 
• Power & Industrial developed safety valves  
 for the 4th generation nuclear reactor  
 technology and extended its renewable  
 energy offering.
•  Over £50m in capital expenditure to improve 
operating efficiency and extend the Group’s 
global presence including: 
• A new manufacturing facility in Queensland,  
 Australia. 
• New service centres in North and South  
 America, Russia, Indonesia and Africa,  
 including Weir SPM’s first centre in   
 Brasil.
Revenue
£1,635m
Up 18%
Operating profit
1
£309.7m
Up 51%
1
  Continuing operations adjusted to exclude  
intangibles amortisation
Group Executive (pictured)
From left to right: Alan Mitchelson (Legal & 
Commercial Director), Steve Noon (Oil & Gas 
Divisional Managing Director), Keith Cochrane 
(Chief Executive), Jon Stanton (Finance 
Director), Dean Jenkins (Power & Industrial 
Divisional Managing Director), Scot Smith 
(Minerals Divisional Managing Director)
Continuing operations 06 The Weir Group PLC
We delivered another strong cash performance and generated free cashflow 
of £79.9m after investment to support the growth of the business. Our 
balance sheet has also been strengthened by the issue of long term debt 
and by the extension of our core banking facilities out to 2014. The Group 
has substantial financial headroom to support organic development and 
expand its presence across target markets.
These increased activity levels required us to invest across the Group:  
we added over 1100 employees through organic growth, research and 
development spend was increased 53% to £14.8m and we invested 
£50.9m in capital expenditure, including construction of the new Multiflo 
manufacturing facility in Queensland, Australia.
Group strategy
We will continue to extend the Group’s position in the minerals, oil and 
gas and power sectors, all of which are high growth, long cycle markets 
with positive fundamentals. This strategy is underpinned by our three  
pillars of Innovation, Collaboration and Global Capability and will be  
delivered through sustainable organic growth supplemented by skillfully 
integrated, targeted acquisitions. We will continue to invest in technology, 
infrastructure and people to grow market share and our installed base of 
original equipment. This in turn provides recurring aftermarket opportunities 
and exposure to both customers capital and operating expenditure.  
We will broaden our competitive portfolio of products and added-value 
services, with the emphasis on those products that will provide a strong 
stream of aftermarket opportunities.
Driving growth
Good progress has been made in developing our three strategic pillars, 
new product initiatives are underway in each division and the benefits of 
greater cross divisional collaboration are already evident. Over the past 
two years around 40% of our revenue has been generated from emerging 
markets and we expect to see this continue to grow in 2011.
These actions are underpinned by our ongoing focus on operational  
excellence and the development of functional initiatives. Examples include 
the full roll out of the Net Promoter Score customer survey methodology, 
increased engineering resources and the development of Group-wide IT 
and procurement strategies. We have also renewed our focus on talent 
management establishing a broad based 300-strong Senior Management 
Group, a consolidated and refreshed graduate recruitment programme 
and a new learning and development framework.
Our growth plans have also been supported by a number of complemen-
tary acquisitions and alliances which broaden our product portfolio and 
strengthen our global footprint and growth prospects, particularly in 
emerging markets. During the year, PCS (Australia), Linatex (Malaysia), 
BDK (India), American Hydro (US) and YES (Spain) joined the Group  
adding annualised revenues of £151m and operating profits of £15.5m 
and the integration of each is progressing well. We also established joint 
ventures and alliances with partners including KHD (Germany), MHI 
(Japan) and Shengli Highland (China).
3-fold strategy
 
Earnings per share
1
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report
INNOVATIVE  
SOLUTIONS
COLLABORATIVE 
MINDSET
GLOBAL  
CAPABILITY
1
2
3
1
   Continuing operations adjusted to exclude 
intangibles amortisation
100.4p
20
10
110
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2009 2008 2010
64.1p
59.3p  07
Our priorities for 2011 are to continue to drive operational excellence  
and focus on our three strategic pillars for growth alongside key functional 
initiatives. We will strengthen our competitive position and grow faster 
than our markets by:
•  Continuing to drive growth through innovation and creativity with further 
investment in extending our product development capabilities. At the 
same time, we will look to take our product portfolio to new markets and 
customers as we seek to build market presence.
•  Building on growing cross divisional collaboration to extend best practice 
and sell our full portfolio of products in all markets as well as extend our 
service footprint to achieve closer customer relationships. Our recently 
established joint ventures and third party alliances extend our capabilities 
and geographic presence and provide a platform for further growth.
•  Capitalising and extending the Group’s global reach and capabilities to 
support customer needs, reinforce our global competitiveness and open 
new markets for existing products and services. 
We will complete the integration of our recent acquisitions and add 
resources where necessary to secure growth. Specifically, we will signifi-
cantly increase manufacturing and service capacity at Weir SPM’s Fort 
Worth plant with a planned investment of US$40m over 18 months and 
develop Weir BDK’s manufacturing capabilities in India. This will enable 
each business to further benefit from opportunities in their fast growing 
markets.
Outlook 
The Group is well placed to benefit from the medium term growth pros-
pects of each of our principal end markets:
•  Growing demand for minerals, oil and gas and power is being driven by 
population growth and the industrialisation of developing economies 
such as India, China and Brasil. 
•  In North America, as conventional resources are exhausted, the propor-
tion of oil and gas sourced from unconventional sources continues to 
grow with a number of other international markets now also emerging. 
•  Ageing power plants and growing environmental concerns will accelerate 
the demand for new plant or alternative forms of energy, in both the 
developed and developing world.
The Group enters 2011 in excellent financial health, with a record order 
book, a clear strategy and plans to drive future growth. We are confident 
we will deliver further good progress.
Over the medium term, the Group is well placed. It has strong positions in 
three growing sectors with positive medium term fundamentals and an 
emerging markets bias. It also has a resilient business model that focuses 
on the sale of original equipment products to provide a growing installed 
base for more profitable and resilient aftermarket sales. The Group is well 
on track to deliver on its ambition to double 2009 profits by 2014.
Keith Cochrane 
Chief Executive 
8 March 2011
Around the world 
Top – Keith Cochrane (standing right) at  
the opening of Weir Multiflo’s new facility  
in Queensland, Australia with, from left,  
local Federal Member of Parliament, Alex 
Somlyay, Rob Brown, regional managing 
director Minerals Asia Pacific with Paul Avey, 
managing director, Weir Minerals Multiflo 
standing on the pump skid 
 
Bottom – Keith Cochrane arrives for the 
agreement signing with Loftyman Engineering 
aimed at growing Weir control valves market 
position in China
