 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 10
Strategic Report: 
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
We serve structural growth markets providing leading 
engineering solutions to our customers in the minerals,  
oil and gas and power sectors. Our products are used  
in critical processes. Without our equipment, rock  
could not be turned into ore and shale oil and gas  
would remain underground. 
Because of the industries in which we work, our products 
are exposed to high abrasion, high pressure and extreme 
temperature environments. This delivers substantial 
aftermarket opportunities, which supports healthy  
and stable returns throughout the economic cycle. 
In line with our aim of becoming a partner of choice, we 
have a strong commitment to making our operations and 
those of our customers and suppliers more efficient. This 
is delivered through a market-leading network of service 
centres which ensures Weir products and services are 
available where and whenever our customers need them.
We rely on the dedication and commitment of our 15,000 
employees and I thank them for their efforts over the 
course of 2013. 
It is our strategic commitment to innovation, collaboration, 
value chain excellence and global capability which has 
helped deliver a solid performance in 2013 despite tough 
end market conditions. As the year progressed we  
revised down our second half expectations in response  
to the slower than anticipated recovery in certain markets. 
We still saw momentum build through the year as we 
delivered operational improvements across the business 
and fully captured growth opportunities for our extended 
product range. This delivered strong second half profits 
and cash generation in line with our updated guidance.
Our markets in 2013
Global economic growth remained subdued. While there 
was good momentum in North America and signs of 
recovery in Europe, emerging market growth slowed  
and contributed to declines in metal prices. In relation  
to our two largest exposures in the Minerals division, 
copper prices fell by over 10%, but long term prices 
remain supportive of investment. However gold prices  
fell nearly 30% to below incentive levels and close to 
marginal cost levels at many mines. 
Falling commodity prices, combined with project over-runs 
and senior management changes at a number of major 
mining companies, led to an increased concentration on 
efficiency and double-digit declines in capital spending. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STRA TEGIC REVIEW:
A RESILIENT PERFORMANCE
FROM A ROBUST BUSINESS 
2013 was a challenging year in many  
of our end markets but our relative 
outperformance demonstrated the 
strength of the Group’s strategy,  
the diversity of our portfolio and the 
resilience of our aftermarket focussed 
business model. This was supported  
by a robust performance from Minerals 
and growing momentum in Oil & Gas  
as we saw a gradual recovery in 
upstream markets. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11
New projects were subject to increased scrutiny which 
led to fewer greenfield investments and those that 
proceeded were subject to delays. Mining companies 
identified brownfield investment as a key focus for future 
investment, given the lower risk and higher, faster returns 
typically available from such projects. 
Commissioning of already committed greenfield 
developments, particularly in South America, 
experienced delays as a result of regulatory and 
operational issues, which had a greater impact than 
initially anticipated. Despite this, and the overall fall  
in mining capital expenditure, global ore production 
continued to expand to meet growing demand.
In oil and gas, oil prices remained strong, supporting 
good growth in international upstream markets 
particularly in the Middle East. 
In North America, tight oil production continued to 
increase with the US on track to overtake Saudi Arabia  
as the world’s largest oil producer. Infrastructure 
constraints and export restrictions led to US oil prices 
trading at a discount to Brent Crude but they still remained 
supportive for investment. Natural gas prices remained 
below incentive levels resulting in a double-digit decline  
in gas drilling during 2013. Total upstream investment  
was slightly down with oil activity growing to almost 80% 
of rig activity by the year end. 
Despite a near 10% fall in the number of active rigs, the 
number of wells drilled only fell by 3% due to continuing 
drilling and completion efficiencies. This was contrary  
to an earlier market expectation that there would be an 
increase in activity, particularly in the second half of 2013. 
Specifically in pressure pumping, there was limited 
demand for capital equipment with a modest increase  
in frack fleet utilisation failing to eliminate excess 
capacity. Aftermarket demand rose through the year as 
customers progressively returned to more normalised 
buying patterns. There continued to be growing interest 
in developing shale resources internationally, particularly  
in China, Argentina, Australia and Saudi Arabia.
Downstream investment in Asia and the Middle East  
was robust with developments also under way in  
North America to address infrastructure constraints.
Global power markets remained subdued with North 
America impacted by reduced electricity prices as a 
consequence of low US natural gas prices. Nuclear markets 
showed tentative signs of improvement with project activity 
resuming in China and positive developments in the UK. 
General industrial activity levels continued to be subdued, 
reflecting the global economic environment.
Our performance in 2013
Overall, in a challenging year, order input in constant 
currency was up 3%, with an improving trend through  
the year such that second half orders were 13% higher 
than the equivalent period in 2012. Aftermarket input  
was up 16%, driven by strong growth in Oil & Gas  
and positive trends in Minerals, despite some earlier 
destocking in South America. In contrast, Power & 
Industrial aftermarket orders fell 2% as maintenance  
and outage work was delayed. Overall, aftermarket 
performance was offset by a 13% decline in original 
equipment with input across the Group reflecting 
double-digit declines in greenfield mining orders, 
overcapacity in pressure pumping and power project 
delays. Cross-selling the broader Minerals’ product 
portfolio partially compensated for these declines. 
Group revenues were down 4% on a constant currency 
basis while the proportion of revenues from aftermarket 
sales increased to 63% from 55% in 2012. In Minerals, 
revenues were flat, with good aftermarket growth offset 
by declines in original equipment. Despite the benefits  
of the Mathena acquisition, Oil & Gas revenues declined 
as good aftermarket growth was more than offset by 
substantial reductions in original equipment sales as a 
result of a smaller opening order book and continued 
subdued Pressure Pumping equipment demand. Power & 
Industrial revenues were also broadly flat as tough hydro 
markets offset good growth in the core Valves portfolio. 
Despite falling revenues and increasingly competitive 
markets, Group margins were maintained at record levels 
translating into a 4% fall in operating profit to £467m. 
Negative operating leverage effects were offset by value 
chain initiatives which delivered over £40m in direct 
procurement savings and increased efficiencies across 
the Group. In addition, the same initiatives contributed  
to a reduction in net working capital. Free cashflow 
increased to £168m, even after capital investment 
totalling £108m, which will underpin future growth 
opportunities.
Beyond our influence were the fluctuations of the 
international currency markets which saw significant 
shifts in exchange rates in the second half of the year, 
with the Australian Dollar and emerging markets 
currencies experiencing double-digit devaluations  
and our largest trading currency, the US Dollar, also 
depreciating significantly against Sterling. These
foreign exchange movements contributed to reported 
pre-tax profits being 5% lower than 2012.
1.   Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation.
Revenue
£2,430m 
-4%
Operating profit
1
£467m 
-4% The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 12
Strategic Report: 
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
A strategy that produces long term value
At Weir we have four strategic pillars which are the 
foundation of our continued success and the source  
of long term value for our shareholders. Over the course 
of 2013, important progress was made in delivering 
further innovation, collaboration, value chain excellence 
and extending our global capability.
Innovation is part of Weir’s DNA. Our company was 
originally founded in 1871 by engineers who invented  
a more efficient way to operate steam ship pumps. 
Almost a century and a half later we are still innovating  
to bring our customers leading engineering solutions. 
In 2013, this meant establishing a comminution range, 
extending Minerals’ addressable market by circa £1bn  
and opening up new opportunities to apply our 
differentiated materials expertise. During the year, the first 
orders for High Pressure Grinding Rolls were received and 
we saw good growth from our expanded screens range.
 
The Minerals division also increased revenues from 
non-mining equipment markets with notable contract 
wins in the oil sands sector in Canada and the coal-seam 
gas industry in Australia. 
In Oil & Gas, our Pressure Pumping bundling strategy, 
which packages together our full product offering, 
delivered aftermarket revenues at levels last seen at the 
peak of the market despite a reduction in overall market 
activity. In Pressure Control, we successfully entered the 
flowback and zipper manifold markets towards the end  
of the year. 
By helping to make our customers more efficient we  
are ensuring our future success too. That is why we  
have a clear strategic focus on collaboration. This was 
demonstrated in September when we signed a global 
framework agreement with Anglo American which will  
see our differentiated mining technology rolled out across 
the world, supported by our market-leading service 
network. Internally, products have been leveraged 
through the Oil & Gas forum which provides a platform  
for cross-divisional co-operation. Products developed 
through the forum generated £14m in revenues in 2013, 
with swellable packers a particular success. 
As a Group operating in 70 countries we have a 
reputation for supporting our customers wherever they 
need us. This means constantly improving our global 
capability, including expanding our market leading global 
service centre network to almost 200 locations. This 
delivers real competitive advantages as demonstrated 
by the early progress of Pressure Pumping operations  
in China alongside good further development in the 
Middle East. Power & Industrial produced a strong 
performance in South Korea as the division continued  
to expand in structural growth markets. We increased  
our manufacturing capacity in other key growth markets 
with our purchase of the Xmeco foundry in South Africa 
and the Cheong foundry in Malaysia. We announced 
plans to further expand our operations in Malaysia with 
the development of a new foundry, machine shop and  
Linatex rubber processing facility. The acquisition of  
the Canada-based R Wales group of companies also 
extends our aftermarket position in the production  
and servicing of a wide range of rubber-lined wear 
components for the North American oil sands and  
mining sectors. 
As well as pursuing new market opportunities we have 
focussed on improving our own operational processes.  
That is why value chain excellence is core to our strategy.  
By becoming a more efficient operation we can sharpen  
our performance and enhance our responsiveness to 
customers. Significant progress has been made leveraging 
the Group’s procurement capability to deliver substantial 
efficiency gains. We are also developing closer relationships 
with key suppliers, using our lean operating process
to help reduce customer lead times.
Essential to the successful achievement of our strategy  
is our people. At Weir, we take great care to ensure our 
highly skilled workforce is given the opportunity to 
achieve its full potential. Progress has been made to 
extend the support available for all of our people from 
apprentices to senior managers. Succession planning 
has continued to advance, with processes in place to 
ensure we have the engineers and leaders to deliver 
growth going forward. 
Two new appointments to the Group Executive were 
made at the beginning of 2014. John Heasley succeeded 
Kevin Spencer as Divisional Managing Director of Power 
& Industrial following Kevin’s retirement, and Andrew 
Neilson was appointed Director of Strategy and 
Corporate Affairs.
Safety
Everyone at Weir shares an ambition to make our 
company a zero-accident workplace. I have given  
a personal guarantee to all of our employees that  
I will support them in their right to stop any work they  
feel could be unsafe. The importance of continuous  
safety improvement was sadly reinforced during 2013 
when a colleague was killed in a road traffic incident.  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STRATEGIC REVIEW
CONTINUED
Capital investment
£108m Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13
This was a tragic reminder of the need to ensure our safety 
culture extends beyond our operational environment.  
I firmly believe our zero-accident ambition is achievable. 
Significant progress has been made and I am pleased  
to see a reduction in our Total Incident Rate (TIR) this  
year but more needs to be done and will be done over  
the course of 2014.
Delivering on 2013 key priorities
In 2013 we identified a series of key priorities for the year:
Continue to enhance supply chain performance to 
increase customer responsiveness and benefit from 
Group leverage. Established new centres of excellence 
helping to deliver Group-wide procurement savings 
equivalent to more than 3% of expenditure and in excess 
of our £30m target.
Capture North American and international Pressure 
Control growth opportunities. Entry to the flowback and 
zipper manifold markets was achieved with first wellhead 
orders secured in the Middle East and Australia.
Extend Minerals’ presence in comminution markets. 
Agreement was secured to give Weir exclusive control 
over the design, manufacture and distribution of KHD 
High Pressure Grinding Rolls (HPGR) for use in minerals 
processing applications – with the first HPGR orders  
now received. A partnership with Taiwan-based Minyu 
Machinery Corporation was signed to distribute and 
develop cone crusher technology.
Drive growth through an integrated global valves 
platform. Valve orders were broadly stable year on  
year although momentum increased in the last quarter. 
Significant progress was achieved in improving 
operational capacity to allow us to take advantage of  
future growth opportunities.
Deliver an enhanced IT platform to support greater 
collaboration. Work is under way on enhancing internal 
networks and developing common enterprise resource 
planning systems in each division which will enable the 
Group to operate more efficiently on a global scale.
Improve working capital performance to enhance 
returns. While it took longer to demonstrate progress 
than I would have liked, it was encouraging to see a net 
working capital reduction in the second half of 2013, 
although there is still further work to be done.
Outlook
The Group remains well positioned to benefit from  
the long term structural growth drivers in each of our 
principal end markets. Demand for minerals will be 
underpinned by continuing population growth and the 
industrialisation and urbanisation of emerging markets. 
Growing desire for energy security and competitiveness 
will support the further development of unconventional  
oil and gas resources in North America and beyond. 
Increasing energy usage in emerging markets, 
environmental concerns and ageing power plants in 
developed markets will drive demand for new and 
refurbished power infrastructure. As easier to reach
and higher quality resources become more scarce, 
increasingly complex solutions are needed to access 
more difficult to reach natural resources placing greater 
demands on the engineering equipment provided by  
the Group. 
In 2014, we anticipate that the Group will return to 
underlying growth despite mixed end market conditions. 
We will continue to capture profitable aftermarket 
opportunities, cross selling our full product portfolio 
across all of our end markets and delivering further 
efficiencies from our Value Chain Excellence initiatives.  
We expect good constant currency revenue and profit 
growth with Group margins broadly in line with 2013 
levels, although our reported results are likely to be 
impacted by recent adverse foreign currency movements. 
Strong cash generation is expected to continue assisted 
by further working capital initiatives.
2014 key priorities
In 2014, we will aim to grow ahead of our end markets by:
• Increasing technical differentiation through the pursuit 
of innovative new products.
• Improving working capital performance by further 
extending value chain excellence initiatives.
• Further embedding safety at the heart of our culture.
• Fully capturing growing aftermarket opportunities  
in Minerals and accelerating progress in our 
comminution strategy.
• Driving growth in frack rentals, flowback and 
broadening international oil and gas opportunities.
• Accelerate Valves growth building on a strengthened 
operational platform.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive
26 February 2014
Aftermarket input
+16%
