 Group Chief Executive’s questions and answers
The way forward
I’m passionate about utility businesses, particularly water utilities.
I saw this as an excellent opportunity to manage a water and
infrastructure management company.  AWG has historically
enjoyed a good reputation amongst its peers and with the
Regulator.  Today the company is in need of reinvigoration 
and focus ahead of the next five-year asset management period.
The non-water operation of AWG also presents the challenge of
defining its role within the group, and how it can deliver greater
value to AWG’s shareholders.
I’ve been very impressed not only by the quality and experience
of staff around the business, but also by their resilience. The past
three years have seen the distraction of different strategies and
projects, the debt refinancing, acquisitions and international
diversification. Throughout this period our people have remained
resolutely focused on doing their jobs. The group has many
strengths; with a clearer direction, I am confident that we will 
be able to deliver improvements across the group.
First and foremost, the focus over the past three months 
has been on the regulatory review. At the same time, we’ve
carried out a business review, which has set out a direction 
for the next 12 to 24 months. The review underlined the
importance of Anglian Water to the group, and its position at
the heart of the business. Secondly, the review has led us into
some of the changes that we’ve made in the Infrastructure
Management Business to bring that business back to focus 
on operational delivery.
Jonson Cox
Group Chief Executive
What attracted you to AWG?
What has impressed you most
since joining AWG?
What has been your main focus
since joining the group?
4 AWG Plc The group has many strengths; with a clearer direction, 
I am confident that we will be able to deliver improvements
across the group.
Anglian Water is focused on the regulatory review and 
in preparing itself to work with the final determination. 
In our final business plan we confronted the hard choices 
that had to be made between investment, service and quality
improvements and the impact on customers’ bills. As a result 
we were able to significantly reduce the capital expenditure 
and propose the lowest bill increases of any major water and
infrastructure company. One thing is clear – the next five-year
period will set new challenges and we need to meet them.
The business review considered a range of alternatives for the
Infrastructure Management Business, but we decided that the
option that offered the most scope to add value for AWG was to
keep it within the group. We have therefore strengthened the
management of the team and focused it on improving margins,
generating cash and building its order book with blue-chip clients,
many of whom it already serves. Our property business has been
separated out from the IMB and will be reviewed in the first half
of the next financial year.
During the year we have successfully sold the majority of our
international business, which has considerably increased our 
focus on the UK. This process has, however, given rise to a large
proportion of the exceptional charges we announced this year.
Our business review underlined the importance of Anglian Water
to the group and in delivering a consistent yield to our equity
investors. We are therefore very conscious of the importance of
the dividend to our investors. This year we have again delivered
on our policy of maintaining our payments to shareholders in real
terms. However, in common with other utilities in the sector, 
our ability to maintain this policy will depend upon the outcome
of the regulatory determination. 
What are your priorities for the
Anglian Water business?
And your non-water business?
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
What can you say about the
sustainability of the dividend 
going forward?
