 Chairman’s statement
2 AWG Plc
I was Chief Executive as well as Chairman for nine months of the
year until we recruited Jonson Cox as Group Chief Executive in
January 2004.
The group reported a mixed set of results, with a strong set of
figures from Anglian Water and a disappointing performance
from the Infrastructure Management Business (IMB). Turnover
was in line with last year and operating profits before exceptional
items and goodwill amortisation rose to £341.6 million (2003:
£325.9 million). Exceptional charges of £144.2 million, goodwill
amortisation of £13.5 million and net interest of £263.7 million
led to a loss before tax of £79.8 million. This translated to a loss
per share of 52.0 pence, compared with a loss per share of 26.4
pence last year.
The effect of having more than half of our customers metered
was seen in Anglian Water during the hot, dry summer. Drinking
water quality continued to improve, all of our 46 bathing waters
passed the mandatory standards and an Ofwat report for 2002/03
showed Anglian Water has the lowest water leakage rate in
England and Wales. 
In April 2004 Anglian Water submitted a significantly 
revised business plan as part of the ongoing regulatory review. 
In preparing the plan, the board considered the choices to be
made between investment, service and quality improvements 
and the impact these would have on prices to customers.
Reducing the level of capital expenditure enabled Anglian Water
to propose the lowest price increase in customers’ bills of any
water and wastewater company in England and Wales. We await
Ofwat’s draft determination in August 2004, but meanwhile 
we have considerably strengthened our regulatory management
by appointing a Director of Regulation in Anglian Water.
In a challenging marketplace the overall performance of the 
IMB was disappointing. Acceptable results from Utility Services, 
a development gain on the disposal of the Tay wastewater PFI
and profits from other PFI activities in Government Services 
were offset by a poor underlying performance in the other
divisions. Construction Services’ margins were disappointing. 
The harvesting strategy continued in Developments and
Commercial Services, which has been renamed AWG Property. 
A review of AWG Property is underway and will be completed 
by the half-year. Since the year-end, the IMB management has
been strengthened by the appointment of a Chief Operating
Officer and divisional Finance Director.
The major impact on our results, however, was the level of
exceptional charges, largely caused by the disposal and closure
costs of our non-core international businesses. The size of these
charges underlines the dangers of investing overseas in a large
number of disparate countries. In spite of the exceptional costs,
most of which were non-cash, the board is convinced the
decision to exit the international business was the correct one
and that it will be to the benefit of shareholders. This is the third
consecutive year of substantial exceptional costs which over three
years have exceeded £450 million. The bulk of these costs have
related to non-core activity and the board is determined that
shareholders’ interests will be protected to a greater extent 
in the future.
The board is now proposing a final payment to shareholders of
33.2 pence, which together with the interim payment of 14.0
pence per share, would make a total payment of 47.2 pence. 
The payment is in line with AWG’s commitment to maintaining
annual payments per share in line with inflation until the end 
of the current regulatory review period in March 2005.
This final payment will be made in the form of redeemable
shares, a practice the group has followed since March 2000. 
Peter Hickson
Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
Since Jonson Cox joined as Group Chief Executive in January this
year, he has initiated a review of all our businesses. It is clear that
Anglian Water is centrally important to the group and we intend
to increase its operational focus. At the same time, by
concentrating on improving current operations, the IMB is
expected to increase margins, become more profit and cash
oriented and build its order book. In doing so, the aim is for 
the IMB to support the group’s ability to make payments to
shareholders. To create a single identity for the IMB we intend to
re-brand it using the Morrison name.
The process of operational and strategic change has meant there
have been a number of board changes during the year. Executive
Directors Tony Eckford and Euan McEwan left in September and
April respectively. Group Finance Director Elliott Mannis will leave
AWG at the end of June 2004 and the search for a successor is
underway. Non-Executive Director Jim Cronin retired in July and
Andrew Carr-Locke joined as a Non-Executive Director in October. 
Management changes have already taken place and the process
is expected to continue. It is important that as part of such
change, we are able to attract and retain the right people in
what is a highly competitive marketplace. Details of our
remuneration policies are set out in the remuneration report on
page 29. This report contains information about a new Long-
Term Incentive Plan which we are proposing as a resolution at
the Annual General Meeting. I believe an appropriate incentive
scheme is essential in order to motivate our senior management
and I hope shareholders will support the resolution.
During the past year, we have also addressed a number 
of corporate governance provisions of the Combined Code. 
In particular, we have examined carefully the effectiveness 
of the board. As Chairman, I have the responsibility for ensuring
that the board can and will provide positive and effective
challenge and support to the Executive team. With Jonson
leading the Executive team, its emphasis must be on delivering
returns to shareholders on a consistent basis. I believe we now
have the basis of an effective partnership which, with a strong
board and management team, will be fully capable of directing
AWG’s future.
The immediate objective is to secure the best regulatory
settlement possible and to continue to strengthen the group’s
management. We must continue to improve financial and
operational controls whilst at the same time refocusing the IMB
so it can make a positive contribution. I have every confidence
that we shall be able to achieve these objectives, which will prove
to be of benefit to both the group and shareholders.
Peter Hickson
2 June 2004
It is clear that Anglian Water is centrally important to the
group and we intend to increase its operational focus. The IMB
is expected to increase margins, become more profit and cash
oriented and build its order book.
