 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 6
Strategic Report: 
Chairman’s Statement
We are proposing a final dividend payment to shareholders 
of 33.2p per share, making 42.0p per share for the full 
year, an increase of 11% in line with our commitment to  
a double-digit dividend increase in 2013. This is the 30th 
consecutive year of dividend growth for the Group and the 
8th consecutive year of double-digit growth.
I took over as Chairman on 1 January 2014, succeeding 
Lord Smith of Kelvin, who had been in the role for 11 years. 
Robert was an outstanding Chairman of Weir and I wish  
to record the Board’s appreciation for his deft and wise 
leadership, as well as my personal thanks for his advice 
and friendship during my time as Deputy Chairman. It is 
worth briefly reflecting on the development of the Group 
during Lord Smith’s tenure into a highly-focussed, high 
margin engineering group operating in the structural 
growth markets of minerals, oil and gas, and power.  
This has delivered a ten-year total shareholder return of 
almost 1,000% – one of the best performances in the 
FTSE 100 – an index which Weir joined during Lord Smith’s 
time as Chairman.
It was fitting that on his last day as Chairman he was 
appointed by the Queen as a Knight of the Thistle,  
the highest honour in Scotland.
Strength from our diversity
In preparing for assuming my responsibilities as 
Chairman, I have visited many of our operations around 
the world. Doing this has allowed me to see our strategy 
and business model in action and appreciate how  
well positioned this Group is to address current and  
future challenges. 
One source of strength is our diversity. By serving the  
end markets of mining, oil and gas and power, we are 
exposed to different capital expenditure cycles, operating 
environments and geographies. These opportunities are 
captured by a business model which provides resilience 
– a point reinforced by our solid 2013 performance which 
was ahead of our end markets.
Changing market dynamics in minerals meant a significant 
reduction in capital expenditure by mining companies. 
Our business was quick to respond: further extending 
into adjacent markets; selling an increasing suite of 
products; and capturing the aftermarket opportunities 
from a growing installed base. 
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
A DIVERSE BUSINESS 
ABLE TO CAPTURE 
GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES 
Despite challenging trading conditions, 
Weir’s diverse end market and 
geographical exposure underpinned  
a solid performance in 2013. Revenues 
were down 4% at £2.4bn, with pre-tax 
profits from continuing operations, 
before exceptional items and intangibles 
amortisation, of £418m, a 5% decrease 
on 2012. Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7
We benefitted from the Group’s industry leading service 
network which creates a platform to get closer to our 
customers and offers an expanded range of products.  
This route to market was also a source of real competitive 
advantage for our Oil & Gas division, both in our largest 
market of North America and in growing international 
opportunities, where it has leveraged Group resources  
to best effect. 
Overall, this agility allowed us to outperform our key  
end markets in an environment of reduced spending  
on original equipment. 
This performance was supported by significant progress  
in delivering our strategy. In each division, we expanded our 
range of products, strengthened partnerships with major 
customers and increased our best cost sourcing capability. 
This helped deliver greater value to our customers while 
operational efficiencies and procurement savings assisted 
in sustaining margins. We also made good progress  
in expanding in adjacent markets, with the acquisition  
of Mathena expanding our pressure control offering  
in Oil & Gas. 
In Minerals, the division extended into the circa £1bn 
comminution segment of the mill processing market – 
where materials are crushed, ground and screened – 
providing the next leg of growth even in a capital 
constrained world.
We also continued to develop our engineering and  
human resources to support the effective execution  
of our strategy and the achievement of our ambitious 
growth plans. As our business has increased in scale  
and complexity, it has become even more important  
to attract and retain the right people to help take 
advantage of future opportunities. That is why we  
remain committed to helping our employees achieve  
their full potential. 
Our Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane, provides a  
detailed review of the strategy in action from page 10.
Our wider commitments
Weir is a global business conscious of its obligations  
as a responsible corporate citizen. We are committed  
to sustainability in the widest possible sense, which 
means ensuring the business continues to grow in  
a way that benefits communities, at the same time as 
managing the environmental impacts associated with  
an engineering group. 
In 2013, we made a significant economic contribution 
through our supply chain and direct support of 
community causes. As a Group operating in dynamic 
markets, we need to be able to react swiftly to changing 
conditions. While this necessitated restructuring in some 
businesses, we also invested in growth opportunities and 
overall added more than 800 employees, the majority of 
which were as a result of acquisitions. Our supply chain 
spending was over £1.3bn, and supports businesses  
in 50 countries. And this year the Group directly invested 
almost half a million pounds in charitable activities in the 
communities where we operate. 
The safety of our employees and partners is of the utmost 
importance to us as a Board and we were all affected by 
the loss of a Weir colleague in a fatality towards the end 
of the year. As a Group, we continue to improve our safety 
culture. Over the course of 2013, the development of the 
Weir Environmental, Health and Safety System continued, 
with key initiatives including the launch of the Weir 
Behavioural Safety System. It contains a number of 
Group-wide tools to establish consistent standards  
in areas of risk. Significant resources will continue to be 
invested in the people, policies and processes to help  
us realise our safety ambitions. 
The Group has also taken steps to assess our 
environmental impacts. We have introduced a robust, 
Group-wide system to calculate our performance on 
carbon emissions and water usage, which will enable  
us to measure and target energy reduction initiatives 
more effectively.
We are also updating our Code of Conduct in order to 
continue to provide relevant guidance to ensure we  
all operate to the highest ethical standards. Compliance 
with the Code will continue to be regularly monitored.
As part of the Board’s programme of regular visits  
across the Group, we spent time in Yorkshire at the  
Weir Minerals plant in Todmorden and the Weir Power  
& Industrial plant in Elland. These visits are valuable to  
all members of the Board, adding to our understanding  
of the operations of the Group and recognising the 
contribution our people make to its continuing success.  
I was particularly pleased to see the Todmorden facility 
win its second Queen’s Award for outstanding 
achievement in international trade.
I was delighted to welcome Mary Jo Jacobi to the  
Board at the beginning of 2014. Mary Jo has extensive 
experience in private enterprise and public life in both  
the US and the UK. I would like to thank her and all  
my fellow Board members for their support and look 
forward to continuing to work with them in the future. 
On a personal level, I have been struck by the pride  
and common purpose shared by all Weir colleagues.  
It gives enormous strength to this business and helps 
explain Weir’s record of success over the past 143 years. 
I would like to thank all colleagues for their hard work  
and continued commitment.
It also gives me great optimism for the future. 2013  
has demonstrated that Weir is a Group which is well 
placed to respond to further challenges in our end 
markets and take advantage of future opportunities. 
That agility, allied to a clear, well executed strategy and 
robust business model, has proved resilient in the past.  
I am confident, as we look forward, it will continue to 
deliver sustainable and growing returns to shareholders  
in the future.
Charles Berry
Chairman
26 February 2014
