 Chief Executive’s review 
Acal has a great team of people – enthusiastic,
hardworking, motivated and always prepared
to go the extra yard for the customer.
8 ACAL plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007
The Group is a leading distributor of technology products and services for the electronics and IT industries
throughout Europe.
Performance review table
The performance of Acal’s divisions in each of the years ended 31 March 2007 and 2006 is set out below:
2007 2006
Sales EBIT* Sales EBIT*
as % as % as % as %
£m of Group £m of Sales £m of Group £m of Sales
Electronics 107.6 41% 3.5 3.3% 104.0 41% 2.4 2.3%
Parts Services 51.9 20% 3.0 5.7% 56.9 22% 5.2 9.1%
IT Solutions 101.4 39% 4.0 3.9% 96.1 37% 2.3 2.4%
260.9 100% 10.5 4.0% 257.0 100% 9.9 3.9%
* EBIT = Earnings before interest, tax, the Group’s share of profit of associates and exceptional items, stated after full
allocation of central costs.
increasing market 
A J Laughton 
Chief Executive
4 June 2007 9 ACAL plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007
Last year saw an increase in both sales and profits in the
two largest divisions, Electronics and IT Solutions and a
decline in Parts Services. In total the ongoing businesses,
after the sale in July 2006 of the Air Conditioning and
Refrigeration division, showed a small increase in sales, up
from £257.0m to £260.9m. More significantly however,
profit before taxation and exceptionals of ongoing
activities is up 14.0% from £8.6m in the prior year to
£9.8m. Again, this is due to the success of our Electronics
and IT Solutions divisions.
Electronics 
The only Pan-European Demand Creation Distributor
Sales up 3.5% from £104.0m to £107.6m
EBIT up 46% from £2.4m to £3.5m
Although the UK market for passive and electromechanical
components has been somewhat soft, growth continues
in this division with the success of our higher technology
products, primarily semiconductors, power and RF &
wireless products which have been, and remain, a prime
focus. Specialised semiconductors now account for an
increasing proportion of the division’s sales. The major
gains have been in Continental Europe as the expansion
of the product portfolio took place earlier there than in
the UK. There has also been significant investment in
people, particularly in Germany and Italy where in the
second half of the year we have recruited in excess of
twenty dedicated semiconductor staff. These comprise
Sales Directors, Field Sales Engineers, Application
Engineers and Product Managers
The restructuring process continues with further
consolidation of the UK passive and electromechanical
components businesses: Radiatron has now merged with
Acal Technology. Logistics (primarily inventory) is being
centralised into two principal locations, one at Hook in the
UK and the second in Eindhoven in the Netherlands.
In line with the growth of our higher technology products
our market share is increasing, as too is our customer base
which totalled nearly 9,500 Europe-wide by the end of
the year. This, together with our emphasis on the design
‘pipeline’ or funnel of prospects which continues to
increase, provides a clear indication of projects and
potential business in the future.
IED Jammer 
Improvised explosive devices (IEDs) have become the
single deadliest threat to personnel in Iraq and have
been employed by the Taliban in Afghanistan. 
Acal helped reduce that threat by providing technical
and commercial support to a customer that developed
technology to jam the communications that control
IEDs, thereby reducing bombings, assassinations and
other terrorist acts. 
Acal, through its RF expertise, helped select in this
instance, components and power supplies that are
used on both hand-held and vehicle-mounted IED
jammers. 
share... 10 ACAL plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007
Parts Services 
Europe’s premier IT Parts Management Company
Sales down 8.8% from £56.9m to £51.9m
EBIT down 42% from £5.2m to £3.0m
After an excellent prior year, 2006/7 proved to be difficult,
especially for CPI and particularly in the first half. This was
as a consequence of weaker demand, some price erosion
and cutbacks on a major contract. Despite this the division
has produced a creditable overall EBIT return of 5.7% of
sales after the allocation of central costs.
New ‘preferred supplier’ arrangements are being agreed
with several customers and the ‘opportunity funnel’ is
stronger than ever, although it can typically take some
while before these convert into new business. In addition,
following the acquisition of the minority interest in CPI we
have completed the integration of the sales and business
development teams of CPI and our other major UK IT
parts operation, EAF. We are now better positioned to
offer all the division’s services to existing and prospective
customers.
IT Solutions 
Europe’s Niche IT Solutions Distributor
Sales up 5.5% from £96.1m to £101.4m
EBIT up 74% from £2.3m to £4.0m
The outstanding successes here have been Networking
and Security product sales and Acal Value Added Services
(AVAS), but across the whole spectrum of this division the
stabilisation, and in some cases improvement, of gross
margins have had a major influence. This margin
improvement has come in part from a shift in product mix
to devices which have more capability and intelligence,
and in part from our focus of providing value added
solutions which can command higher unit prices than
discrete hardware and consequently better margins.
The Headway document management business, which has
experienced relatively flat sales year-on-year, improved its
profitability and is now embarking upon a number of new
initiatives which fit closely with its core focus. Although it
would be premature to forecast growth at this stage,
there is considerable optimism that these will lead to both
an increase in revenue and further margin improvement.
Bull SA
Bull is the premier European-based global IT supplier, 
with a worldwide presence in more than 100 countries. 
As an information technology company they are
dedicated to helping corporations and public sector
bodies develop open and secure information systems 
to sustain their business strategies.
CPI, part of Acal Parts Services, has had an enduring
relationship with Bull, working with the group since 1998.
Providing supply chain services to support Bull’s European
customer base with Intel to Hi-end server parts, this
relationship has developed and expanded over time to
include multi-vendor inventory management and repair
services.
CPI’s relationship with Bull has progressed dramatically
over the years and it now works on a contractual basis
with Bull in 12 European Countries.
best of breed solut 11 ACAL plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007
Similarly the Storage Networking business had flat sales
but also improved its profitability significantly. Again, this
is largely due to a gradual shift to more advanced higher
value products that command better margins.
Lastly, Vertec, our medical imaging and instrumentation
business, again put in a strong performance with an
improvement in both sales and net margins. Vertec has
now established an operation in South Africa with the
same key suppliers that it has worked with in the UK for
many years. It is anticipated that this operation will quickly
move into profit, benefiting from the reputation of its key
suppliers and the market momentum behind private
healthcare in that country.
Associates
Acal’s major associate, Singapore-based Westech, in which
we have a 36% shareholding, increased sales and profits
in its year ended 31 December 2006 with sales up 65% 
to S$330.2m and net profits up 69% to S$6.1m.
ACAL people
Acal has a great team of people – enthusiastic,
hardworking, motivated and always prepared to go the
extra yard for the customer. As importantly, they are very
supportive of the fact that change is the norm rather than
the exception in our industries. This is a spirit which
stands us in good stead for the future and provides a
great deal of confidence in our ability to succeed.
I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to
them all.
More House School 
More House school is an independent boarding
school for boys with specific learning difficulties.
Constant network access is essential to enable
students to keep up their studies and given the risk
of server failure in the evening or at weekends the
school needed a solution to enable IT managers to
manage and reboot servers remotely. 
Acal IT Solutions offered expert knowledge to
propose and implement the most effective solution
through the application of Lantronix’s Secure Linx™
Remote Data Centre Management Solutions. 
Students, teachers and parents alike now benefit
from improved network access.
ions...
