 Our strategy remains, to concentrate on
Europe and selectively expand our supplier
base and service offerings.
Chairman’s statement 
realising potential..
2 ACAL plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007
Following the disposal of the Air Conditioning &
Refrigeration business in July 2006, the focus of the
Company has been on implementing our strategy of
increasing market share to achieve profitable growth. 
In October 2006, as part of the group’s consolidation,
Acal acquired the remaining minority interest in CPI 
and commenced the process of integration of its
customer-facing activities with EAF, our other major 
Parts Services business.
Sales of ongoing activities grew 1.5% to £260.9m 
despite an 8.8% fall in Parts Services. EBIT for the year
grew by 6.1% to £10.5m reflecting significant
improvement in the performance of both Electronics and
IT Solutions offsetting the reduced profit in Parts Services.
The Group’s ongoing activities made a 40% return on
average capital employed, before exceptional items, up
from 31% for the prior year.
Costs have remained under close control across all
businesses with further consolidation of logistic and 
back office functions resulting in selective headcount
reductions. However, due to recent successes in mainland
Europe we have recruited additional staff in both
Germany and Italy to address new Electronics business.
Profit before taxation and exceptional items from ongoing
activities grew by 14.0% from £8.6m to £9.8m and the
corresponding earnings per share increased 27.6% to 25.0p. ..
3 ACAL plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.7p per
share payable to shareholders on the register as at 
15 June 2007. This, together with the interim dividend of
7.2p will make a total of 21.9p for the year, an increase 
of 1.4%. 
Board composition and governance
There have been no changes to the composition of the
Board or any of its Committees during the year. The
Directors remain of the view that the Board, as currently
constituted, is appropriate for a Company of Acal’s size
and incorporates a suitable balance of skills; the matter is,
however, kept under review. Acal continues to strive for
high standards of corporate governance, full details of
which are set out in the governance statement included 
as part of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Employees
To succeed in a competitive environment requires
commitment and dedication from staff. We are fortunate
at Acal to have a motivated, loyal and committed
workforce and I take this opportunity to thank them
personally and on behalf of the Board for their continued
hard work and support.
Strategy and the future
The growth in sales and profits of our two largest
divisions, Electronics and IT Solutions, has been very much
in line with our plans and we continue to invest in new
resources, particularly in Electronics. The Parts Services
business, after an excellent prior year, suffered this year 
as a result of weaker demand in the first half and a
significant slowdown on a major contract. Whilst there
continue to be major opportunities going forward, their
timing remains difficult to predict.
Our strategy remains unchanged: to concentrate on
Europe, selectively to expand our supplier base in
Electronics and IT Solutions and to extend our offerings 
to the supply chain in Parts Services. We plan to continue
our progress by growing our market share rather than
relying on market growth.
We strive for greater efficiency and continue to
consolidate many administrative and logistical functions
across all three divisions. We continue to consider ways 
of enhancing shareholder value and whilst our strategy 
is primarily based upon organic growth we will consider
selective acquisitions where they accelerate the delivery 
of this strategy.
Richard Moon 
Chairman
4 June 2007
