 All three channels generated higher profits
with growth in the interactive channel and via
self service fixed odds betting terminals
(FOBTs) in licenced betting offices (LBOs)
exceeding the more than satisfactory levels of
growth achieved in the telephone channel and
the over the counter business in LBOs.
The continuing strength of FOBT business owes
much to the landmark decision by the Gaming
Board of Great Britain to withdraw from its
planned legal challenge to these betting
terminals in favour of an agreed Code of
Conduct regarding their deployment and
operation. 
This was obviously a welcome move and bodes
well for our future relationship with
government and any future industry regulator .
It shows how, with constructive dialogue, the
right balance between free market policies and
socially responsible product innovation can be
achieved to the benefit of all in a commercial
gambling environment.
We still believe that our future will be shaped
by the ongoing process of regulatory
modernisation. However, the timing and
substance of any Gambling Bill remain subject
to parliamentary scrutiny and due process.
Whilst we seek to both influence and anticipate
the outcome of this process, we will continue to
focus on organic growth opportunities, and
keep an open mind about our potential to
participate in any industry consolidation or
convergence through acquisition.
Our strong financial performance since the
Group’s flotation in June 2002 has allowed us to
create significant value for our shareholders
and pay down debt. Consistent with our stated
intention of returning value to shareholders, we
propose to raise the total dividend by 44% to
12.5 pence per share, and to seek authority
from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting to buy back up to 10% of the
issued share capital.
The current year has got off to an encouraging
start.
In the eight weeks ended 24 February 2004, the
Group’s gross win was up 1 7% against the
corresponding period with all three channels
achieving double digit rates of growth. Roughly
half of the total increase is attributable to the
net movement in gross win derived from FOBTs
and AWPs. The FOBT roll out accelerated from
April 2003 and will become less of a factor in
driving gross win growth later this year . 
The Group’s operating expenses were up 13%
over the corresponding period primarily as a
result of normal inflationary pressures across
the Group, and within the retail business
higher staff costs consistent with the strategy of
extended trading in the LBOs.
Each of the three channels is well positioned
relative to the competition and has a clear
strategy designed to deliver sustainable profit
growth in the current year .
I would like to take this opportunity on behalf
of the Board and shareholders to thank all our
staff for their continuing contribution to the
Group’s success.
Furthermore, I cannot complete this, my first
statement as Chairman of William Hill, without
paying tribute to my predecessor . John Brown
was with the Group for 44 years, famously
rising from tea boy to Chairman, and has been
the inspiration for many of the innovations in
both the Group and betting industry over many
years. That he will be sorely missed is without
doubt. However, he has handed over the reins
with the Group in exceptionally good shape,
and we face the future with justifiable
confidence.
Charles Scott
Chairman
3
Chairman’s Statement
Group profit on ordinary
activities before finance
charges, tax and
exceptional costs was
£201.7m, an increase of
43% on last year, and our
fourth successive year of
double digit profit growth.
