 Once again, our ability to increase the Group’s
gross win faster than operating costs has
allowed us to exploit the operating leverage in
our business model and deliver strong growth
in profits and earnings per share. 
The most significant variation in sporting
results occurred in football, where the first half
of the year saw very favourable results for the
bookmaker, particularly in the Euro 2004 series
of matches where a number of favoured teams
fell victim to underdogs, whilst in the second
half we have seen a long run of favourites
winning, both in the domestic leagues and key
European matches.
We have also experienced some fluctuations in
horseracing results, which also saw a lower
level of gross win across the Group in the
second half, but this trend was exacerbated by
lower theoretical margins, which are the direct
result of on course bookmakers hedging into
betting exchanges.
Retail
The Retail division grew gross win by 8% to
£548.1m and profit by 9% to £165.5m.
We largely completed our roll out of fixed odds
betting terminals (FOBTs) by the end of 2004,
finishing the year with 5,573, although we will
continue to optimise numbers, siting and
product. Average net profitability per terminal
reduced during the second half, partly due to
the impact of the voluntary code of conduct, but
mainly due to the dilution effect of adding the
third or fourth terminal into shops and our
winter trading hours. During the year, we
traded an average of 4,442 terminals (2003:
2,454) and achieved a full year average net
profitability per terminal of £370 per week
(2003: £380). We hope to improve profitability
in 2005 through a combination of product
innovation and improved contractual terms
with our suppliers.
The number of Amusement With Prizes
machines (AWPs) in the estate has been
reduced through the year to accommodate
more FOBTs, and the Group finished the year
with 530 AWPs (2003: 2,454).
Over the counter gross win fell in the second
half, partly due to adverse sporting results,
partly due to low theoretical margins and partly
due to substitution into self service machine
betting via FOBTs. For the full year, over the
counter business was flat against last year.
During the year we recognised that we could
improve our manual settlement procedures to
speed up the recycling of winnings.
Consequently, we have accelerated our roll out
of electronic point of sale (EPOS) tills and the
replacement of text systems and fully expect to
have them deployed by the end of 2005. 
During the year we acquired 10 licensed betting
offices, opened 17 licensed betting offices and
closed seven units bringing our total number of
trading shops to 1,606 at the year end. In
addition to the new licence activity, we
extended or resited a further 39 shops and
shopfitted a further 86 shops. Total property
related capital expenditure on the estate for the
year was £13.3m.
Telephone
Telephone gross win grew by 7% to £60.3m,
but profit was flat at £22.1m. The channel
continues to benefit from the increasing
popularity of betting-in-running but was the
worst hit by the profile of results in the second
half being the most vulnerable to higher
staking customers who are less inclined to
recycle winnings. It is also the channel most
vulnerable to the impact of betting exchanges.
The main cost increases that resulted in a lower
conversion of gross win to profit were higher
levy charges due to an increase in gross win on
horseracing, and higher IT recharges reflecting
the development of back office account
management and trading systems.
We ended the year with 184,000 active
telephone customers (2003: 171,000). 
Interactive
Strong underlying growth in poker, the online
casino, and arcade products helped counteract
the impact of adverse sporting results and the
division finished the year with gross win of
£106.1m, up 25%, and profit of £51.7m, up 39%.
2004 also saw the launch of our own TV station
on Sky Channel 425. This was a deliberately
low cost, low risk entry strategy into interactive
digital television. The platform has made an
encouraging start and we will be expanding
our coverage of live sporting events, as well as
introducing coverage of live poker tournaments,
to attract more viewers and use the medium to
promote the brand and other growth areas for
the Group.
Towards the end of the year, we also introduced
a new range of java based casino and slot
products suitable for GPRS and 3G generation
mobiles to complement our already successful
WAP sportsbook and arcade offering.
The launch of these two initiatives in addition
to our already successful internet sites provides
UK domiciled customers with unrivalled 
access to our business and the brand with 
a distribution ubiquity few competitors 
can match.
We ended the year with 292,000 active
Interactive customers (2003: 247 ,000).
Cost of content
In November 2004, the European Court of
Justice (ECJ) delivered its judgement on the
interpretation of the Database Directive, which
had been referred by the Court of Appeal in
relation to the dispute with the British
Horseracing Board on the use of certain racing
data. This judgement supported the Group’s
position, in contrast to the position adopted by
the initial High Court ruling. The ECJ
interpretation will be applied by the Court of
Appeal and the case decided at a hearing
which has been fixed for June 2005. In the
meantime, the Group continues to contribute
10% of gross win on UK horseracing via the
statutory levy.
The betting industry has contractual
arrangements in place with 52 of the country’s
59 racetracks for the supply of horseracing
pictures into licensed betting offices. The
duration of these contracts varies from between
three and five years.
During the year the bookmaking industry
agreed to an increase in the voluntary levy to
support the greyhound industry. This three year
agreement will see a phased increase in
contributions from 0.4% of turnover on
greyhound betting in 2003 to 0.6% of turnover
in 2006. It is the intention of the British
Greyhound Racing Fund that the majority of
the increase will be directed at improved
welfare for greyhounds. The Group paid £2.8m
under the voluntary levy in 2004 (2003: £2.4m).
Despite the increase in greyhound funding, we
believe that the ECJ ruling greatly reduces
pressure for increases in the cost of content
across all sports.
4
Chief Executive’s Review
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executive’s Review
In 2004, despite fluctuating
sporting results, the 
Group continued to perform
strongly whilst investing 
in its capabilities for 
the future. Operating costs
Full year expenses for the Group were
£332.5m, an increase of 6% on the comparable
period. The rate of cost increases slowed
through the course of the year and whilst costs
increased 8% in the first half against the
comparable period, the rate of increase fell 
to 4% in the second half against the
comparable period.
Much of the increase was due to higher staff
costs that were up 10% over the comparable
period reflecting extended opening hours in
our shops, inflation based pay awards and
higher pension costs. Property costs were up
5% over the comparable period reflecting
increases in rent and rates, an increase in
average shop size, and an increase in the size
of the estate. The costs of providing pictures to
our licensed betting offices were up 9% over
the comparable period due to increases in
trading hours, the size of the estate, and
charges. Advertising and sponsorship costs,
including the cost of free bets and casino bonus
cash payments that are expensed in arriving at
gross profit, were up 30% over the comparable
period reflecting incremental spend on the
Euro 2004 football championship and increased
sponsorship and web advertising and
promotions. Other increases relate to network
and communication costs, up 33% over the
comparable period, as we improve links
between administrative centres and licensed
betting offices, partly to support FOBT business,
but also in preparation for EPOS roll out. In
contrast, depreciation, bank charges (including
charge backs) and AWP rentals decreased
compared to the comparative period.
A number of the cost increases are driven by
our ongoing investment in information
technology as we strengthen development and
support capabilities in preparation for the
introduction of EPOS and new back end
systems. All expenditure on information
technology is subject to rigorous cost-benefit
analysis, and tightly managed through
formalised project and programme
management systems.
Going forward we expect underlying costs to be
contained to annual rates of growth of between
4% and 6%, although there will be a short
term increase in one off costs in 2005 resulting
from the introduction of the EPOS system and
costs associated with the capital reorganisation.
Competition issues
The Office of Fair Trading has taken the
administrative decision to discontinue its
investigation into and close its case file on the
formula used to calculate payouts on computer
straight forecasts and tricast bets. Its review of
the rules of racing led to a number of changes
which were reflected in the British Horseracing
Board’s modernisation plans. These are now
subject to further change following the ECJ’s
ruling and subsequent reviews of the future
funding and governance of the sport.
William Hill is a major employer and pays
significant taxes and therefore we believe that
it is in the national interest to address the
unfair advantage enjoyed by layers on betting
exchanges who compete directly with
traditional bookmakers without paying a
comparable level of gross profit tax or
horseracing levy. This inequitable taxation of
layers on betting exchanges enables them to
offer better prices than the traditional
bookmaker . We continue to lobby aggressively
for a ‘level playing field’, and were pleased to
note that, in its recent review of gross profit tax,
the National Audit Office reiterated the need to
assess the potential duty at risk across the
betting industry resulting from the tax
advantages enjoyed by layers on betting
exchanges. This opinion follows the
Chancellor’s statement in 2004 that the taxation
of betting exchanges would be subject to a full
review.
Whilst the Gambling Bill has yet to complete its
passage through both Houses of Parliament, it
is evident that the potential opportunities and
threats for the Group resulting from a rapid
expansion of the gaming sector are receding.
Potential synergies between the betting and
gaming sectors are reduced by the proposed
structure of the legislation. This reduces the
likelihood of any cross sector merger or
significant acquisition activity for the Group at
the current time, and hence our need for
flexibility in the potential use of capital.
Accordingly, we are intending to return 
a significant amount of surplus capital 
to shareholders. 
Regulatory development
The Gambling Bill will be put before the House
of Lords during February and March 2005.
Assuming it passes into law, we are advised
that it is unlikely to be fully implemented until
the Gambling Commission is fully resourced
and operational, which is unlikely to be before
the end of 2006, or early 2007 .
Proposed regulations concerning remote
gaming and the new licensing regime for
betting operators are the principal areas of the
Bill that will impact on William Hill. We have
been lobbying through our trade associations,
the Association of Remote Gambling Operators
(ARGO) and the Association of British
Bookmakers (ABB), to ensure that the new
measures are effective in accomplishing the
Government’s regulatory objectives, without
imposing undue compliance costs.
Capital reorganisation
Background to the proposed Return of Capital
William Hill was listed on the London Stock
Exchange in June 2002 and at that time the
Group put in place a capital structure and
financing arrangements to provide the optimum
capital structure for William Hill as a public
company, consistent with the Board’s strategy.
These financing arrangements were designed
to support a strategy focused on maximising
organic growth opportunities but also provided
the flexibility to pursue selectively value-
5
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executive’s Review
Licensed Betting Offices Telephone Interactive
0 £m
9.2
20.5
35.4
54.9 
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
37 .1
84.9 
2001 2002 2003 2004
Gross win
Trading profit  
£m
93.2
111.9
416.7 418.9
Gross win
Trading profit  
0
600
500
400
300
200
100
152.4
505.6
2001 2002 2003 2004
£m
15.5
50.9
17 .3
48.0
Gross win
Trading profit  
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
56.5
22.2
2001 2002 2003 2004
548.1
165.5
60.3
22.1
100
51.7 
106.1 
17 .3 6
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executive’s Review
enhancing acquisitions and enabled the Group
to adopt a progressive dividend policy.
Since listing, the Group has pursued a strategy
aimed at delivering sustainable earnings
growth and value for its shareholders. The key
elements of this strategy have been to
continue to enhance traditional earnings and
maximise organic growth opportunities,
profitably exploit new platforms across all
betting channels, and capitalise on
opportunities arising from regulatory, fiscal
and technological change. Although the Group
has reviewed a number of potential investment
and acquisition opportunities, in particular in
the context of potential gambling deregulation
in the UK, the Board has maintained strict
financial discipline and avoided pursuing
opportunities unless they were demonstrably
value enhancing for shareholders. The Group
has made a number of small acquisitions of
licensed betting offices and greyhound 
stadia that have been funded out of operating
cash flow.
In light of William Hill’s strong financial
performance and to help preserve an efficient
capital structure and maximise returns to
shareholders, the Board secured the authority
at its last Annual General Meeting to buy back
10% of the Group’s issued share capital. Since
this time William Hill has bought back
approximately 6.5% of its share capital.
However, the Board has concluded that
William Hill could support a significantly
higher amount of debt and to do so would be
in the interest of shareholders. The Return of
Capital will restore the Group’s financial
coverage ratios to levels broadly consistent
with those established at the time of the
listing. In view of the substantial quantum of
capital which the Board believes should be
returned, the Board has concluded that the
optimal mechanism would be a B share
scheme which offers pro rata participation to
all shareholders with full choice between
income and capital elections. 
In order to facilitate the proposed Return of
Capital, a new holding company will need to
be introduced as part of a scheme of
arrangement and reduction of capital that will
require the approval of shareholders and the
High Court. The objective of these steps is to
create sufficient distributable reserves to
facilitate the Return of Capital and future
dividends and share buy backs.
Funding of return of capital
In order to fund the return of capital and take
advantage of the current favourable conditions
in credit markets, the Group has secured new
bank facilities of £1.2bn with a consortium of
banks. On 2 March 2005, £600m of the new
facilities became available and will be used to
repay the existing bank facilities in March
2005 at which time they will be cancelled.
Subject to the satisfaction of various conditions
precedent, a further £600m of new facilities
will become available once the scheme of
arrangement and reduction of capital has been
approved by shareholders and the High Court.
All the new facilities have been provided on a
committed and underwritten basis and 
have a five year term. 
Pension plan
Subject to the return of capital being approved
by shareholders, the Board has undertaken to
make a special contribution of £40m to the
Group’s defined benefit pension scheme. The
contribution will be spread over a period of
three years and is designed to eliminate the
deficit calculated on a continuing basis by the
actuary as at September 2004. The Board and
pension scheme Trustee have consulted on this
specific proposal and believe it represents an
appropriate course of action that properly
balances the legitimate interests of
shareholders, and members and pensioners.
Future strategy and dividend policy
The Board intends to maintain an efficient and
flexible capital structure after the return of
capital and will use a combination of dividend
payments and share buy backs to achieve this
objective. 
For 2005, the Board expects to maintain
dividend cover on a per share basis broadly in
line with the level in 2004. In addition, the
Board will be seeking authority from
shareholders for a renewal of the on market
share buy back mandate. 
Timetable of events
The Board will be posting a circular to
shareholders in mid April 2005 setting out full
details of its proposal to return capital and the
timetable of events. 
At this early stage, the Board anticipates that
shareholders will be invited to vote on this and
other proposals at the Annual General Meeting
and the Court meeting on 19 May 2005, with
the High Court sanctioning the scheme of
arrangement and reduction of capital in June
2005, and payments being received by
shareholders in early July 2005.
David Harding
Chief Executive
