 Sporting results were not generally in
our favour and this led to lower levels of
gross win in our traditional sports
betting business in the Retail and
Telephone channels. This was
compensated for by growth in FOBTs
and in our Interactive division which
continued to increase gross win
substantially, particularly in online poker
and arcade games but also in its
sportsbook. We continued to maintain a
tight control over costs.
Our acquisition of Stanley Leisure plc’s
betting shops in the UK, Republic of
Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle
of Man has substantially improved our
competitive position in the UK and
given access to the Irish betting market.
Signiﬁcant progress has been made in
integrating the business into the
existing William Hill estate and this
project will be complete by the end of
the ﬁrst quarter of 2006. We believe that
synergies and other beneﬁts of the
acquisition will exceed the £13m we
initially expected.
We successfully installed a replacement
text system and a new EPOS system into
the William Hill estate to replace
mechanical tills and cameras, which
have served us for over 25 years. The
automation of the betting process is
delivering gains in labour productivity in
the LBOs and cost savings in central
functions. It has also been well received
by our customers. This major project
was rolled out in the William Hill estate
with minimum disruption and the same
technology is being rolled out to the
Stanley estate. This phase of the project
will be completed by March 2006.
We also commenced a three-year
programme to upgrade our core
bookmaking systems which, when
complete, will provide signiﬁcant
business beneﬁts and give our
customers the convenience of betting
across our channels through a single
account.
There were a number of developments
in our industry during the course of
2005, particularly in the areas of
regulation and taxation. The Gambling
Act 2005 was enacted although the key
provisions will not come into force until
late 2007. There are a number of
provisions which are expected to be
beneﬁcial to the betting industry
including longer opening hours in the
winter, the classiﬁcation of FOBTs as
gaming machines and the introduction
in LBOs of £500 jackpot machines. Other
provisions including the removal of the
demand criteria could also impact our
estate although we believe that this may
not be signiﬁcant over the longer term.
We are working closely with the newly
established Gambling Commission to
assist in developing its policies and
procedures which will regulate future
operations.
In its Pre-Budget Report in December
2005 the Government set out its
conclusions in respect of its review of
gambling taxation which was initiated in
the 2004 Budget. We were pleased that,
at the present time, the Government has
decided not to increase the rate of gross
proﬁt tax. However, we were
disappointed that the Government
decided not to change the way in which
betting exchanges are taxed. This
continues to provide them with an
unfair advantage over traditional
bookmakers and the pressure on
theoretical horse racing margins in
particular is expected to continue. An
independent committee under the
chairmanship of Lord Donoughue is
reviewing the starting price mechanism
and its ﬁndings are expected to be
announced in the early summer. There
were changes announced in the way in
which FOBTs are taxed from the
previous regime in which FOBT income
was subject to betting duty to one in
which it is subject to VAT. From April
2006 FOBTs will also be subject to
amusement machine license duty
(AMLD). The rate of AMLD is to be set in
the 2006 Budget. It is possible that the
rate at which remote gaming will be
taxed will also be announced in the
2006 Budget. 
Our dispute with the BHB which in past
years led to signiﬁcant uncertainty with
regard to the cost of content for the
entire industry was resolved in our
favour by a judgment in the Court of
Appeal. The judgment will reduce the
ability of sports bodies to charge
additional amounts for data. As a
separate matter, the Government has
established an additional committee
under the chairmanship of Lord
Donoughue to examine the
replacement of the statutory levy. An
initial report has been published and
the Government has conﬁrmed its
intention to end the levy in September
2009.
As a result of the Stanley acquisition we
introduced new ﬁnancing arrangements
and gave guidance on a target capital
structure. Consistent with this guidance,
the Board indicated its intention in
September 2005 to return £200m –
300m by way of on-market share buy-
backs within an eighteen month period.
By the end of 2005 we had bought back
£78.3m of shares.
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend
of 12.2 pence per share which combined
with the interim dividend of 6.1 pence
per share results in total dividends for
the year of 18.3 pence per share, an 11%
increase on the total dividends paid in
the comparable period.
I would like to formally extend a warm
welcome to all the Stanley employees
who have joined William Hill and thank
all our colleagues for their hard work  in
a challenging year.
Trading in the ﬁrst eight weeks of 2006
has been mixed, with some strong
weeks, aided by more favourable
football results, and some poor weeks,
particularly for horseracing which has
been impacted by both unfavourable
results and ﬁxture cancellations. Online
gaming continues to grow strongly and
costs remain under tight control.
After this relatively short trading period,
and with the World Cup and the full year
beneﬁts of both the Stanley acquisition
and EPOS rollout still to come, the Board
remains conﬁdent in the prospects for
the Group.
Charles Scott
Chairman
3
Chairman’s Statement
William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chairman’s Statement
In 2005, our third full year as
a public company, we took a
number of key strategic
steps, including the
acquisition of Stanley Leisure
plc’s betting shops and
investment in EPOS and new
text systems in our LBOs.
Earnings per share excluding
exceptional items fell slightly
but as a sign of the Board’s
conﬁdence for the future, we
are proposing to increase
total dividends by 11%.
