 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 3
The period was boosted by the World Cup
and the continued growth in FOBTs. We
also continued to maintain a tight control
over costs. In addition, our acquisition of
Stanley Leisure plc’s betting shops in the
UK, Republic of Ireland, the Channel
Islands and the Isle of Man has
substantially improved our competitive
position in the UK and given access to the
Irish betting market. The integration of the
business into the existing William Hill
estate was completed on schedule by the
end of the first quarter of 2006. We
believe that the £13m of synergies and
other benefits promised at the time of the
acquisition have already been delivered,
with more gains to come. 
During 2006, we have also made
significant progress in developing our
international business. We will shortly
enter into joint venture agreements with
Codere to exploit new opportunities in
Spain and Italy. Codere is a leading
Spanish gaming group which operates
slot machines, bingo halls, sports betting
outlets, racetracks and casinos in Spain,
Italy and Latin America. We think that in
Codere we have found a partner with a
similar culture and attitude to ourselves
and we are confident that this partnership
has the potential to deliver long-term
value for both sets of shareholders.
We continue with our three-year
programme to upgrade our core
bookmaking systems which, when
complete, is intended to provide
significant business benefits and give our
customers the convenience of betting
across our channels through a single
account. The importance of this
programme is emphasised by the keen
competition experienced in 2006 in the
interactive sector and the disadvantage
we are currently operating under due to
the age and inflexibility of our legacy
technology platform.
2006 has also been a busy period in the
field of regulation. The Gambling
Commission has continued to consult
widely with the betting and gaming
industry as they prepare detailed
conditions, codes, standards and guidance
under the Gambling Act 2005 in time for
the deadline imposed by DCMS of
September 2007 for the new regulatory
regime to become effective. Overall, we
welcome the establishment of the
Gambling Commission as a strong and fair
regulator who should ensure that the UK
industry maintains its strong reputation
for probity and integrity. We have been
heavily involved in detailed consultations
with the Gambling Commission with a
view to ensuring that the regulations
produced are fair and proportionate. We
have concerns that some of the detailed
regulations are still not published in final
form and that some consultations are still
ongoing at this late stage. Consequently,
we are concerned about the time given to
the industry to implement the detailed
requirements in time for September
where technical changes to systems and
equipment are needed. We shall continue
our discussions with the Gambling
Commission to press for practical and
proportionate regulation. 
There are also a number of provisions,
which the Gambling Act is expected to
introduce, which should be beneficial to
the betting industry including longer
opening hours in the winter, the
classification of FOBTs as gaming
machines and the introduction in LBOs of
£500 jackpot machines. Other provisions
including the removal of the demand
criteria could also impact our estate
although we believe that this may not be
significant over the longer term. 
The Government has announced that it
had decided to retain the Horserace
Betting Levy Board and the associated
horserace betting levy scheme for the
time being. This follows the conclusion of
an investigation of the future funding of
the UK horseracing industry by an
independent committee under the
chairmanship of Lord Donoughue, which
concluded that there is no current
commercial alternative funding
mechanism.
Another independent committee also
under the chairmanship of Lord
Donoughue also concluded its
investigation of the starting price
mechanism in 2006. The changes made
have been controversial with a number of
commentators criticising them as being
detrimental to punters. However, as they
have widened the sample of the
bookmaker prices included, we believe
that they are a fairer reflection of the
actual prices pertaining and will be seen
to be beneficial for horse-racing in the
long term.
There have been two changes to the
Board’s composition in 2006. In March,
Simon Lane joined the Board as Group
Finance Director. Simon brings a wealth of
experience from the leisure and retail
sectors and has already made a significant
impact. In November, Tom Singer left the
Board to pursue other interests. I would
like to thank Tom for the significant
contribution he has made to the business
since joining the Group in 2002, initially as
Group Finance Director where he played
an outstanding role in connection with
the flotation of the Group and more
recently as Chief Operating Officer
assisting in the integration of the Stanley
Retail acquisition.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
14.5 pence per share which combined
with the interim dividend of 7.25 pence
per share results in total dividends for the
year of 21.75 pence per share, a 19%
increase on the total dividends paid in the
comparable period.
In the nine weeks to 27 February 2007,
the Group’s gross win has increased by
11% and costs remain under control. At
this early stage of the year, the Board
remains comfortable with consensus
expectations.
Finally, I would like formally  to thank all
our colleagues for their hard work in 2006
and wish them further success for 2007.
Charles Scott
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement
2006 has been a successful
year with the Group
realising the full-year
benefits of the Stanley Retail
acquisition and benefiting
from good organic growth
throughout the rest of the
business. Profit before
finance charges and
exceptional items was 19%
higher than last year and
earnings per share
excluding exceptional items
increased by 24%. To reflect
this, the Board is proposing
to increase total dividends
for the year by 19%.
