 The overall result was in line with our
expectations for the period, despite significant
variability in sporting results throughout 
the year. 
Our Retail business showed continued growth,
largely due to the completion of the roll out of
fixed odds betting terminals (FOBTs), and our
Interactive business continued its strong
underlying growth. In contrast, Telephone
betting ended the year flat against the
comparable period. 
The Group has a significant investment
programme in information systems and
technology planned for 2005. In our Retail
business we have contracted with Alphameric
for the supply of electronic point of sale bet
capture and settlement tills and new text
display systems. These investments will greatly
improve productivity and customer
communications. Both projects are progressing
well and we are confident that the roll out 
will be completed successfully by the end 
of this year.
We also entered into a new contractual
relationship for the supply of FOBTs with
LeisureLink who will become our prime
supplier, providing 80% of the installed base of
close to 5,600 terminals. FOBTs now represent
a significant proportion of shop profitability,
and whilst the Department of Culture Media
and Sport (DCMS) continue to describe them as
being ‘on probation’, we are pleased to note
that the recent research conducted by MORI
and Europe Economics showed no causal link
between FOBTs and problem gambling. In
addition, the Gambling Bill (the ‘Bill’) makes
specific provision for terminals within the
proposed legislative framework. Accordingly,
we believe the potential regulatory risk to this
part of the business has receded.
The Government’s proposals for the
modernisation of regulations governing betting
and gaming are becoming much clearer as the
Bill makes its final passage through both
Houses of Parliament. Increasingly, the
potential threat of increased competition from
US style “super casinos” is waning, but at the
same time, potential synergies between the
casino and betting sectors are decreasing. 
In addition, there remains significant
uncertainty around the future taxation of
betting and gaming.
Given this strategic picture and the prevailing
uncertainties, the Board is not inclined at this
time to commit significant capital to potential
acquisitions outside of its core bookmaking and
gaming businesses. Consequently, it follows
that the Board proposes to return capital to
shareholders whilst still retaining some
financial flexibility to acquire additional 
betting shops. We will, therefore, be seeking
shareholder approval at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting to return £453m 
to shareholders.
In parallel with the process of regulatory
consultation with DCMS, both directly and
through our trade associations, the Association
of British Bookmakers (ABB) and Association of
Remote Gambling Operators (ARGO), we have
been working to evolve responsible gambling
policies and practices. These are covered in
more depth in the section of the report and
accounts on corporate responsibility. In addition
to the Corporate Social Responsibility Working
Group established in 2004, the Board has
formed a Corporate Responsibility Committee to
oversee the Group’s activities in this area.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
11 pence per share which combined with the
interim dividend of 5.5 pence per share results
in a total dividend for the year of 16.5 pence
per share, a 32% increase on the total dividend
paid in the comparable period.
In January 2005 we were pleased to welcome
David Edmonds to the Board and I am sure his
experience of regulated industry and business
in general will be invaluable.
I would also like to take this opportunity to
thank all our employees for their hard 
work and contribution to another excellent 
set of results.
The Group has achieved a satisfactory start to
the current trading year with Group gross win
in the eight week period ended 22 February
2005 up 4% against the comparative period
despite tough comparators.
Charles Scott
Chairman
3
Chairman’s Statement
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Chairman’s Statement
The Group’s focus on profitable
organic growth has delivered
another excellent set of results
with profit, earnings per share
and dividends all showing strong
double digit rates of increase
over the comparable period.
