 Importantly, the business is now very broadly
based, having benefited from channel, product
and market diversification in recent years.
This is perhaps best illustrated by the growth in
remote channels, which has been achieved
without cannibalisation of the high street retail
business. In 2000, only 1 4% of the Group’s
gross win and less than 1 1% of Group
operating profit derived from these channels. In
2003, 22% of gross win and 30% of operating
profit came from the remote telephone and
interactive businesses in which William Hill
enjoys a very strong market position.
Notwithstanding the success of our telephone
and interactive businesses, the most significant
event to impact this year’s performance was the
accelerated rollout of fixed odds betting
terminals (FOBTs) into the retail estate. These
self service terminals give customers access to
a variety of numbers betting products. 
The Gaming Board of Great Britain (GBGB)
initially challenged the legality of these
terminals, claiming that they believed them to
be gaming machines. After extensive
discussions, the GBGB and the Department of
Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) have
determined that, with the signing of a Code of
Conduct governing the deployment of these
terminals, it is no longer in the public interest
to pursue the legal challenge.
We naturally welcome this agreement and
believe it paves the way for a constructive
working relationship, based extensively on self-
regulatory codes of conduct, with the future
Gambling Commission.
Retail
Turnover was £4,751.8m (up 93%) due to the
roll out of FOBTs, that generate significant 
4
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
Each of our three channels has made strong progress in developing its business over
the year and is well placed to meet the regulatory and competitive challenges ahead.
turnover albeit at low margin, and growth in
the traditional over the counter business.
Gross win from FOBTs and Amusement With
Prizes machines (AWPs) was £100.5m, up
£59.0m, due to the aggressive roll out of FOBTs
from April 2003 and despite the loss of some
£8.1m of income from AWPs. Some of the
growth in this income will also represent
substitution from traditional over the counter
business albeit not capable of separate
quantification. Notwithstanding this
substitution effect, gross win on traditional over
the counter business grew by 7 .4% to £405.1m,
driven by a combination of extended opening
hours, product innovation and estate
development.
At the end of the year we had 3239 FOBTs
deployed across the estate, and 2454 AWPs,
giving an average density of 3.6 FOBTs/AWPs
per licensed betting office (LBO). The average
number of FOBTs through the year was 2,400
and for AWPs was 2,700, and the average
profitability (after all rental and revenue share
costs) for FOBTs was £380 per terminal per
week.
Horse racing gross win grew in absolute terms
for the first time in four years, and the share
represented by bets on greyhound racing
remained steady at 21% of total gross win.
Virtual racing (horseracing and greyhounds)
products grew significantly following their
introduction in May 2002. Gross win on football
business was flat excluding the impact of the
World Cup in 2002. 
We finished the year with 1,586 LBOs, a net
increase of seven units over the year . During
the year, we opened 13 new LBOs, resited 28
shops to improved locations and extended a
further 14 units. The average shop size of all of
these developments was considerably above
the estate average, with over 1000 square feet
of customer area (estate average c.600 square
feet). A further 70 shops benefited from more
minor facelift improvements.
Costs incurred by the retail channel increased
by £21.6m (10%) compared to the
corresponding period driven by a combination
of increased activity, such as extended trading
and the increase in the number of betting
opportunities, and normal inflationary pressure.
Of the total increase, £10.3m related to
increases in staff costs, of which £4.4m related
to the costs associated with extended opening,
£3.2m reflected inflation-related pay increases,
and £2.5m related to management bonuses.
A further £5.7m related to increases in property
costs, including £2.2m for the installation of
FOBTs. Machine rentals (for FOBTs and AWPs)
and the cost of the related communications
network increased by £2.5m. The cost of
pictures and audio supplied by SIS increased by
£1.7m as a consequence of the new agreement
reached in May 2002 and the additional
horseracing and other products provided during
the year .
Work continued throughout the year on
defining our requirements for an electronic bet
capture and settlement (EPOS) till system and
for replacement of text systems that deliver
audio-visual information to customers in LBOs.
We fully expect to be in a position to award key
contracts in support of these programmes
during the first half of 2004. Based on our work
to date, we expect our technology programme
to cost £40m to £50m over the next three years,
and to result in operating costs of £3m in 2004. 5
Telephone
Telephone is our most mature channel, and is
also the business that faces most competition,
from a combination of increased call centre
capacity amongst traditional competitors, but
also from new entrants, including betting
exchanges, into remote gambling. 
Against this background an 1 1% increase in
gross win to £56.5m is a very creditable
achievement. Growth in football gross win has
been strong with the most significant new
product contributing to this increase being
“betting in running” on major televised football
events.
Horseracing is still the main sport for betting
via the telephone, and our continuing
dominance of this channel reflects the strength
of our brand amongst more sophisticated,
higher staking racing clientele.
Tight cost control meant that all of this increase
dropped through to the bottom line and the
division generated operating profit of £22.2m
(up 28%). 
Interactive
The interactive channel includes our online
sportsbook and arcade, casino and poker sites,
and wireless Internet (WAP) and interactive
television businesses.
Gross win from these operations grew by 55%
to £84.9m. The fixed cost nature of this
business meant that a high proportion of the
increase fed through to the bottom line and
operating profit increased 81% to £37 .1m.
In the early part of the year, the sportsbook and
arcade business was relatively flat as we
shifted our marketing focus from the Far East to
selected European markets, and as the first half
of 2002 included the World Cup. During the
second half of the year, this part of the business
generated significant gross win growth as new
markets were penetrated and new arcade
games proved popular with customers.
The change in market focus has also resulted in
a change to the underlying sports products.
Football, which was by far the dominant
product in the Far East, now represents only
31% of channel gross win, and the increase in
UK business has resulted in growth in horse
racing, now 36% of channel gross win.
Different overseas markets demonstrate
different propensities to bet on other sports
which is why 19% of online gross win is from
non core sports, significantly more than either
telephone or retail. The progressive launch of
four arcade products throughout the year
helped numbers betting to grow to 7% of
channel gross win. 
The online casino benefited from the
introduction in January 2003 of person to
person poker and later in the year dedicated
language sites which significantly boosted
growth. Despite very significant competition
(estimates range from 1400 to over 3000 online
gaming sites), the evidence is that customers
prefer to conduct their online business with the
strongest brand names, so we remain confident
of our ability to retain market share.
Mobile Internet and interactive television
continue to be small parts of this business.
Both are to some extent constrained by the
immaturity of the underlying technology, and
also by the aspirations of service providers.
During 2004, we expect some relaxation in
these factors and anticipate that these elements
of our interactive offering will grow at a faster
rate.
Costs increased by £8.4m (39%) as the
businesses promoted its enhanced offering and
provided incentives to customers that in turn
led to growth in gross win. Marketing and
promotional costs increased by £4.4m and the
costs of managing and processing client funds
increased by £2.6m. 
The majority of income was earned from UK
domiciled clients, a situation which was
exacerbated by the rapid slow down in
revenues from Far Eastern markets following
the outlawing of internet gambling by Hong
Kong and subsequent banning of gambling
transactions by many credit card issuers.
Protectionism is also rife in some European
markets, notably Holland, Germany and Italy. In
the wake of the Gambelli decision in the
European Court of Justice, we are strongly
lobbying the European Commission to ensure
enforcement of unrestricted cross border
trading. We have voluntarily stopped taking
sportsbook bets from these jurisdictions, just as
we do not accept sportsbook bets from US
domiciled customers. We remain of the view
that we are operating legally in the UK and that
the responsibility for complying with other
countries’ laws rests with the customer . We will
continue to make country specific judgements
regarding accepting online business balancing
the size of the opportunity against the potential
costs associated with defending our position.
Licensed Betting Offices Telephone Interactive
(10)
0
£m
9.2
20.5
(7 .7)
16.5
35.4
54.9 
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
37 .1
84.9 
2000 2001 2002 2003
Gross win
Trading profit  
£m
82.2 93.2
111.9
384.1
416.7 418.9
Gross win
Trading profit  
0
600
500
400
300
200
100
152.4
505.6
2000 2001 2002 2003
£m
16.4
15.6
50.9
17 .3
48.0 47 .7
Gross win
Trading profit  
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
56.5
22.2
2000 2001 2002 2003 Cost of content
The commercial arrangement with the British
Horseracing Board (BHB) for the use of data
came into force in 2002 and is mirrored in the
horseracing levy. Due to uncertainty
surrounding the future governance of British
horse racing given the ongoing Office of Fair
T rading (OFT) review, the government has
announced that the levy will continue for at
least one more year until September 2006. We
do not anticipate any attempt to increase the
cost of data during this period.
The betting industry has commercial
arrangements in place with all 59 British race
tracks for the provision of horse racing pictures
in LBOs. 49 of these tracks have a contract in
place until December 2004. The industry is in
active individual negotiations with a number of
these tracks with a view to agreeing a new
arrangement. T o date, a number of new
contracts have been signed resulting in some
two-thirds of the current fixture list being
covered until at least the end of 2007 . The new
contracts place greater emphasis on the
provision of betting friendly racing. We are
therefore confident of our ability to continue to
provide coverage of horse racing without
material cost increases.
Our agreement with the football leagues for
football betting runs for LBOs until the end of
the 2005/6 season, and for remote channels
until the end of the 2003/4 season. Any attempt
to increase payments to the football leagues
beyond normal economics will of course be
strongly contested, and we do not anticipate
material increases.
The betting industry, via Bookmakers’
Afternoon Greyhound Services Limited, has
agreements in place for afternoon greyhound
meetings (that comprises 95% of bets taken on
greyhound racing) through to December 2005.
Whilst there remains some pressure for an
increase in the voluntary levy for the
greyhound industry, we do not anticipate a
major increase in our overall costs.
Competition issues
The OFT continues its “root and branch” review
of the rules of racing. With the exception of an
investigation into the compilation and
dissemination of computer forecast formulae,
the focus of the OFT is not on bookmakers. As
regards the investigation into forecast
formulae, the Association of British
Bookmakers (ABB) is responding fully with
ongoing investigations and we do not envisage
any outcomes materially detrimental to the
Group.
On the high street, we continue to compete
with the other large national multiples, as well
as with various smaller local independents.
There has been some evidence of an increase in
competition for new licences as some
magistrates have relaxed their interpretation of
the ‘demand criteria’ in anticipation of
regulatory modernisation. However, we
continue to enjoy success in contesting
applications for new licences by competitors,
and to win new licences ourselves.
In our telephone and interactive businesses we
face a range of competition from traditional
domestic fixed odds bookmakers, global online
gaming providers, and providers of niche
betting services such as spread betting and
betting exchanges. Whilst it is impossible to
measure accurately market share in these
businesses, the level of growth we have
experienced, despite such competition, gives us
confidence that we are more than holding our
own.
Regarding exchanges, we are disappointed that
neither DCMS nor Customs & Excise have
changed their stance regarding the licensing
and taxing of layers, but we continue to lobby
and are hopeful that the current process of pre-
legislative scrutiny in connection with the draft
Gambling Bill will result in a more constructive
indication of future government policy in this
area.
Regulatory development
Clauses of the draft Gambling Bill are currently
being reviewed by the all party scrutiny
committee under the chairmanship of John
Greenway. We continue to lobby as regards the
timing and content of this legislation.
Business development
We have now fully integrated our two
greyhound stadia, Sunderland and Brough
Park, and are very pleased with the
performance of both. Between them they
contributed £1.6m to trading profit, despite the
latter only being under Group ownership since
March 2003.
We have also fully integrated the H&K LBO
chain, which is also delivering profitable
growth in line with our aspirations at the time
of its acquisition. We remain interested in
acquiring LBOs that meet our strict return on
investment targets.
We keep an open mind as to the potential for
horizontal diversification into other forms of
gambling, or further vertical integration, and
continue to evaluate opportunities as they arise.
Share buy back
We are committed to maintaining the efficiency
of the Group’s balance sheet, and to maximising
value creation for shareholders. Accordingly, we
maintain under constant review our options for
returning surplus capital to shareholders in the
most efficient manner . In this context, the
Group intends to seek authority from
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting to buy back up to 10% of the
issued share capital. 
6
William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003
