 William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman’s Statement
Establishing a strong platform for growth
Charles Scott 
Chairman
04
The Board believes William Hill Online  
is well placed to capitalise on the 
significant growth projected to come 
from online betting and gaming over 
the next few years. Full integration will 
take up to nine months to complete 
but the team has already made  
good progress, including launching 
new poker and casino websites using 
Playtech’s software. Once integrated, 
we will be able to apply the skills of  
the specialised online marketing  
and customer management teams 
we acquired to all customers in the 
business and to cross-sell more 
effectively the full range of sports 
betting and gaming products that we 
offer, including the new Sportsbook.
The online channel is our preferred 
approach for targeting betting and 
gaming customers internationally as it 
is the most cost-effective mechanism 
for reaching large, geographically 
diverse customer bases. 
Whilst land-based expansion remains a 
longer term opportunity, we recognise 
that the current economic climate is 
making such capital-intensive, long-
term investments more challenging. As 
a result, we sold our Italian joint venture 
in July 2008. In Spain, we are now 
trading in 74 locations in Madrid and 
the Basque region and we are in 
discussion with Codere S.A (Codere), 
our joint venture partner in Spain, as  
to the future strategic direction of the 
joint venture.
Refinancing 
As previously highlighted, we have 
been in dialogue with our banks 
regarding our borrowing facilities, 
£1.2bn of which are due to mature  
in March 2010. At the time of 
publishing this Annual Report, we 
announced that William Hill has 
Our retail business, which accounts for 
82% of the Group’s gross win, delivered 
a strong trading performance in 2008 in 
spite of the challenging economic 
conditions. On a 52-week basis, gross 
win grew by 7% and operating profit by 
7%. We have achieved this growth by 
continuing to invest in the development 
of our LBO estate and by implementing 
various cost management measures 
that kept the underlying cost increase in 
the period to 3%. This helped to offset 
some of the additional costs from the 
introduction of Turf TV as a second 
supplier of television pictures from 
racecourses into the LBOs and the  
first full-year effect of extended  
winter opening hours.
Shortly after Ralph Topping’s 
appointment as Chief Executive in 
February 2008, we announced our 
intention to increase our focus on  
the growth opportunities in gaming 
and online gambling, having seen  
our leading position eroded over 
recent years. We achieved positive 
growth in our existing online business, 
delivering on a 52-week basis net 
revenue growth of 13%, operating 
profit growth of 10% and an 18% 
increase in active accounts.
More importantly, we established a 
strong platform for continued growth 
by addressing our key deficiencies  
in technology and capabilities. First,  
we launched our new Sportsbook on 
the industry-leading Orbis software 
platform, which offers customers 
significant improvements, such as 
richer site content and a full range  
of in-running betting opportunities. 
Second, we established William Hill 
Online as one of Europe’s leading 
online betting and gaming businesses 
by combining our existing online sports 
betting and gaming business with 
certain assets acquired from Playtech.
William Hill achieved a robust trading 
performance in 2008, with Group gross 
win of £1,022.5m, net revenue of 
£963.7m and operating profit of 
£278.6m. Gross win and net revenue 
were 3% higher than in 2007, a 53-week 
period, and 6% higher on a 52-week 
comparison with 2007. Operating profit 
was 3% lower than the 53-week period 
in 2007 and 1% lower on a 52-week 
comparison with 2007. Basic earnings 
per share excluding exceptional  
items was 45.4p.  William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information
“ The Board remains confident about  
the long-term prospects for the business,  
both in the UK retail market and in the  
online market.” 
05
to focus our estate development 
programme on new LBO sites and  
re-sites where we expect to achieve 
the best rates of return.
Board of Directors
During the course of the year, there 
were three changes to the Board  
of Directors. 
In February 2008, Ralph Topping was 
appointed Chief Executive, having 
previously held various positions within 
the Group, including Group Director, 
Operations, with responsibility for the 
Group’s UK-based operations, Retail 
Operations Director and Internet 
Director. He joined William Hill in  
1973 and had been a member  
of the Board since April 2007. 
In November 2008, Ashley Highfield 
was appointed a non-executive 
director. He is currently Managing 
Director and Vice President of 
Consumer and Online UK at Microsoft 
and has wide-ranging experience  
and knowledge of existing and 
emerging technologies.
In December 2008, Ian Spearing, 
Corporate Affairs Director, retired  
from the Board and the Group. On 
behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank Ian for his dedicated service 
and contribution during his 18 years 
with the Group.
Finally, I would like to thank all our 
colleagues for their hard work in  
2008 and for delivering a strong 
performance in challenging 
circumstances.
Charles Scott
Chairman
earnings, with the intention of moving 
towards 2.0 times dividend cover over 
time. The Board expects to pay an 
interim and final dividend for 2009  
in line with this dividend policy. The 
dividend policy is aimed at ensuring 
that shareholders continue to benefit 
from the successful growth and strong 
cash flows of the Group.
Outlook
The Board remains confident about 
the prospects for the business, both in 
the UK retail market and in the online 
market. While it is unclear how the 
current economic climate might 
affect our business in the coming 
months, performance in 2008 as a 
whole, in the fourth quarter of the year 
and in 2009 to date has been resilient. 
We believe that this resilience is 
supported by the broader 
geographical base of the retail 
business across the UK, the expanding 
product range offered across our 
channels, the widening customer 
base, and the fact that betting  
and gaming remain low-ticket, 
entertainment-led activities.
Given the current economic climate, 
we are focused on maintaining tight 
cost control and capital management. 
During 2009, we expect to see further 
benefits accruing to our retail business 
from the cost initiatives implemented in 
2008, including the new staffing model. 
At the same time, we will continue to  
invest in William Hill Online to achieve 
growth in revenue and overall 
customer numbers. 
We reduced our capital expenditure 
significantly during 2008 and intend  
to maintain this lower level of 
expenditure during 2009. In addition, 
our capital expenditure approval 
process has become more stringent. 
During the coming year, we intend  
entered into new bank facilities that, 
under a forward-start mechanism, and 
together with our £250m existing bank 
facility, will provide aggregate funding 
to the Group of £838.5m. In addition, 
the Board announced that it proposes 
to raise approximately £350m (net  
of expenses) by way of a fully 
underwritten 1 for 1 Rights Issue. 
The Board’s decision to issue equity 
has been driven by the dramatic 
deterioration in credit markets since 
August 2007, which has resulted in 
banks seeking to reduce their overall 
lending to borrowers. 
Notwithstanding the Group’s 
continued trading resilience, strong 
cash generation and recent actions 
to reduce our funding requirements 
from £1.45bn to approximately £1.2bn 
and the reduction in net debt of 
£86m to £1,022m during 2008, the 
current credit market conditions have 
not made it possible for William Hill to 
refinance the Group’s existing bank 
facilities in full in the bank market. 
Together, the refinanced bank facilities 
and the proceeds from the fully 
underwritten rights issue will result in  
a significant decrease in the Group’s 
net debt with an improved facility 
maturity profile, and result in a 
strengthened balance sheet and 
improved credit ratios. The Board 
believes that, with the new bank 
facilities and the Rights Issue, William 
Hill will have a robust capital structure 
and appropriate financial flexibility to 
enable the Group to continue to 
execute our growth strategy.
Dividend
William Hill will not be paying a final 
2008 dividend. Following the Rights 
Issue, the Board expects to adopt a 
dividend policy based initially on a 
dividend cover of 2.5 times underlying  06
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review
Launching our  
new Sportsbook
In-running betting online
In December 2008, we launched our new online 
Sportsbook, www.williamhill.com, which can offer 
customers a full-range of in-running betting. The 
state-of-the-art site features increased levels of 
content, including form, news, reviews, live radio 
commentary and live streaming of many leading 
sports, and provides more betting opportunities 
on more events, more quickly than ever before. 
Customers also benefit from six language options 
and more local currency betting. 07
William Hill 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Business Review
