 Chief Executive’s Review 
Over the 12 months of the period under review, the company’s 
new management team has been implementing the strategy  
to transform Ransom into a focused provider of natural consumer 
health products to help maintain a healthy body and mind.
At the beginning of last year, the company’s survival was in doubt 
as it entered into discussions to renew its banking facilities. It was 
evident that management needed to address both short–term 
performance and cash generation at the same time as defining a 
clear vision and developing the business plan to return the 
company to growth.
During the year, greater financial stability has been achieved, and 
we have made considerable operational improvements in order to 
turn the business around. Despite these achievements there remains 
much still to do in the business while operating in an economic 
climate that remains very tough. 
Initial requirements – financial restructuring 
In order to secure long term support from the company’s lending 
bank, debt and working capital needed to be reduced. This was 
achieved by the divestment of Radian B and Pavacol D and the 
reduction in gross stock levels by almost 45% from a high of 
£9.5m in July 2008 to £5.4m as at 31 March 2009. The bank’s 
support directly led to the lifting of the company’s share 
suspension and a resumption of trading in January 2009. 
Net borrowing at the end of the year was £3.8m (2008: £6.6m); 
net stock holding was £4.9m; receivables were £0.5m lower and 
payables higher by £0.9m, resulting in a £3.2m improvement in the 
company’s working capital position compared with the year ended 
31 March 2008.
Short term – operational improvements 
Three key drivers to improve the business were identified: the 
need to simplify operations, the exit or turnaround of loss making 
activities and the building of a management team with the skills to 
deliver the turnaround.
Simplification was achieved in many ways. An executive 
management structure was created with clear roles and 
responsibilities, the number of offices was reduced by closing 
Cardiff and Sandhurst and the Gatehouse property in Hitchin was 
sold in April 2009. The number of product lines (or stock keeping 
units – SKUs) was reduced from 1,700 to 270. Seven core brands 
were selected (from over 30) to focus on – Aloe Dent, Aloe Pura, 
Allergenics, Australian Tea Tree, Manuka Gold, Health Perception, 
and Metanium; and active interest will be maintained in  
Kordel’s and Medibee which are sold under licence agreements. 
More recently, complex pricing structures have been simplified  
and aligned.
Loss making activities were terminated in a number of areas. 
In August 2008, the costly contract with Navamedic to sell 
Alateris, the prescription-only glucosamine product, was ended. 
Loss making promotions and discounts were stopped, and price 
increases were implemented to cover significant commodity cost 
inflation. The operating losses at the contract manufacturing 
pharmaceutical site at Witham were reduced from £0.9m for 
the six months ended September 2008 to £0.6m in the second 
half of the year (including £0.25m of exceptional costs). Further 
improvements to performance have since been achieved and are 
expected to continue from the execution of the recovery plan 
which is focused on pricing, operational efficiencies and changes 
to working practices.
Management at Ransom has changed considerably in the last 
12 months. New finance (interim), sales and operations directors 
have been appointed and new management has been recruited 
in marketing, sales, planning and procurement and across all 
functions at the pharmaceutical contract manufacturing site  
at Witham. The board believes that the company now has a  
strong team in place that can deliver the required results and 
improve performance.
Business Review Longer term – vision and drivers 
The market for natural health products continues to grow despite 
the recession. Independent research indicates that consumers 
are less willing to cut back on products for their health and 
“natural” is a motivator for purchase. Ransom should be well 
placed to benefit from such positive indicators given its heritage 
and the range of products it sells. It will be able to capitalise on 
this by building brand equity that is reassuring and credible and 
by bringing products to market that are relevant and sufficiently 
differentiated. In parallel to the financial restructuring and 
operational improvements, progress has been made in laying the 
foundations for revitalised marketing initiatives.
In June 2008 a vision was defined to become a recognised leader 
in natural consumer health products focused on developing the 
business with higher margin brands. The two greatest drivers to 
achieve this and to improve business performance at Ransom are 
to increase distribution of our products in mainstream channels 
and to gain significant savings via economies of scale generated 
through improved purchasing practices. Progress has been made 
on both but the beneficial effects are still to be fully realised.
New distribution has been gained in many channels, including 
some Multiples such as Tesco and Sainsbury, but the main intention 
is to launch a range of our core products under a single ‘umbrella’ 
brand that can be supported by targeted marketing investment, 
while maintaining the current core brands in the Independents. 
In November 2008, in depth quantitative and qualitative research 
was conducted that gives management a clear understanding of 
the needs and motivations of consumers towards natural products 
and a brand from Ransom. Development of that brand is already 
advanced and is expected to be launched at the end of 2009. 
Although there is significant consumer interest in natural products 
there is also widespread confusion and limited understanding 
about the products. The opportunity for Ransom is clear, with its 
long and distinguished heritage in natural extracts it can capitalise 
on this market dynamic and bring greater clarity to the sector 
under one accessible brand. 
Economies of scale can be achieved in the supply chain and a 
detailed review of the size of the opportunity has been undertaken. 
This has been quantified and some of the benefits will be achieved 
in this financial year.
Export market development continues well and on plan, while the 
initiative to expand availability through on-line sales has started 
slowly. Through a joint-venture with MDY Healthcare PLC, Trust 
William Limited was set up in 2007 and trustwilliam.com was 
launched in September 2008. 
Prospects
Despite the obvious difficulties created by the economic downturn, 
the recession and currency fluctuations many of the financial 
and operational issues have been addressed and management has 
started to stabilise the business, retain customers and consumers, 
and develop relationships with key suppliers. The turnaround is by 
no means complete and the current financial year has its risks 
as more fully disclosed in Note 2 to the financial statements. 
However, I believe the actions that are being taken will improve 
Ransom’s performance and create shareholder value. 
 
Ivor Harrison Chief Executive
27 July 2009
William Ransom & Son plc   |   Annual Report 2009 11
