 Chairman’s Statement
Results
Revenue for the year was £33.6m, £1.5m lower than the prior 
year revenue of £35.1m. The company made an operating loss 
before exceptional items of £1.9m (2008: operating profit of 
£0.4m) and an overall operating loss of £1.7m (2008: loss of 
£7.7m). Exceptional costs totalled £1.1m (2008: £7.7m) and were 
principally associated with the financial restructuring and the 
execution of the turnaround plan. These items were offset by 
£1.3m gained from brand disposals. Financing charges for the 
year totalled £0.7m (2008: £0.7m).
The adjusted loss per share was 2.80p (2008: 0.39p). Basic loss 
per share was 2.51p (2008: 8.72p).
Net debt at the end of the year was £3.8m (2008: £6.6m).  
A major component of the reduction in debt was improved 
working capital management. Stock levels were reduced during 
the year to £4.9m (2008: £6.7m), trade and other receivables were 
£0.5m lower and trade and other payables increased by £0.9m. This 
resulted in a £3.2m improvement in the company’s working capital 
position versus the year ended March 2008.
Dividend
The company will not pay a dividend this year as the turnaround 
is not complete. It remains the board’s intention to return to a 
progressive dividend policy as soon as the financial position of 
the group has stabilised and market conditions improved.
Relisting of shares
Due to the uncertainties surrounding the company’s longer term 
financing at the time, trading in Ransom’s shares was suspended 
in June 2008. 
Following the reduction of the company’s borrowing facilities 
through the disposal of Radian B, and the good progress made 
on implementing the turnaround plan, a letter of support was 
provided by the company’s lending bank in December 2008.  
This led to the publication of the annual report and accounts  
for the year ended March 2008 as well as the interims for the 
period of six months ended September 2008, and subsequently  
a lifting of the suspension of the trading of the company’s  
shares on AIM on 9 January 2009.
General meeting
On 26 November 2008, former directors of the company, together 
accounting for 28% of the company’s shares, exercised their right 
as shareholders to convene a general meeting of the company 
to consider and, if thought fit, pass resolutions to remove the 
board. The general meeting was held on 13 January 2009 and all 
resolutions were voted against. 88% of independent shareholders 
voted to support the current board. 
In the first half of 2008 the board initiated a widespread  
re-structuring of the business and I am pleased that good progress 
has been made to return the company onto a firmer footing. 
However, high exceptional costs were incurred as a result of 
re-financing, other major portfolio and management changes 
and, of course, consumer markets remain tough.
Business Review People
The past year has seen significant changes at Ransom at director 
and executive level. Ivor Harrison was appointed Chief Executive 
on 6 May 2008. Ian Miscampbell stepped down as Finance Director 
and left the company on 24 October 2008 and was replaced by 
Ran Oren as Interim Finance Director. 
Ivor Harrison has also appointed a new Sales Director and 
Operations Director, as well as a new management team at the 
company’s pharmaceutical contract manufacturing business at 
Witham, Essex.
The challenges of the last twelve months have been exceptional for 
all staff and I thank them for their resilience and continued support 
to improve the company’s prospects and performance, as well as 
their willingness to build a more professional organisation.
Outlook
The new management team led by Ivor Harrison has developed a 
clear turnaround plan and has made good progress in implementing 
many of the key initiatives. The team has also defined a clear vision 
for the business – to focus on building a strongly branded, natural 
consumer health products company providing targeted consumers 
with high performing products that help them maintain a healthy 
body and mind.
To this effect the Consumer Health division has been restructured 
and focused on fewer brands in specific market segments.
The Natural Products division continues to build effectively on the 
William Ransom heritage and has won new business in both the 
UK and export markets. 
It remains the intention of management to divest the company’s 
Pharmaceuticals division as it does not fit the new strategy.  
In the meantime, good progress is being made to return this 
division to profitability.
The market for natural consumer health products continues to 
grow and Ransom is well positioned to take advantage of the 
opportunity that this presents. The company has a distinguished 
heritage in natural extracts as well as quality products in a wider 
range of categories than almost any other company in the sector.
The economic climate has made trading and forecasting 
increasingly difficult but I believe the new management team 
is showing that it has the requisite insight and skills to turn the 
business around and improve its overall financial performance. 
First quarter results for the current financial year are on plan, but 
trading conditions seem to be increasingly tough and the impact 
on consumer spending continues to be difficult to forecast for the 
remainder of the year.
David Suddens  Non-Executive Chairman
27 July 2009
William Ransom & Son plc   |   Annual Report 2009 9
