 2 | William Sinclair Holdings plc
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2 | William Sinclair Holdings plc
The 15 month period to the end of September 2008 has been challenging for the
Company following some of the most difficult trading and operating conditions for
many years. Despite this it is very pleasing to recommend a final dividend of 1.0p
making a total for the period of 2.0p (2007 – 3.5p). 
Compared to the previous 12 month period, turnover for the 15 months to 30
September 2008 is ahead by 45% at £54.8million. In addition to the extra three
months trading this includes sales by Freeland and by Joseph Metcalf Ltd (which
was acquired in January 2008). 
Underlying sales were broadly in line with the previous period with strong
demand from the professional growers offsetting the shortfall in retail caused, in
the main, by the very early Easter and by poor weather.
Our peak selling season usually begins at Easter but in 2008 it was the earliest it
had been for almost a century and fell significantly before the beginning of spring.
Demand therefore started later and was concentrated into a shorter period. From
Easter onwards we faced record levels of rainfall which impacted on demand,
curtailed the peat harvest and significantly increased transport costs due to
heavier product.
We have increased our own prices following the significant increase in the cost of
fuel, energy, plastic packaging, fertilisers and transport. This has begun to mitigate
some of the profitability erosion that we experienced during 2008. 
Consequently our margins are beginning to recover and are returning to normal
levels. This is being helped by the continuing fall in commodity prices and lower
transportation costs.
As previously announced, Bolton Fell has been selected as a candidate Special
Area of Conservation (cSAC) and it is likely that we will eventually have to stop
harvesting peat from this particular area. We do not anticipate any long term
difficulty with sourcing alternatives to Bolton Fell peat but these alternatives are
all more expensive. We will seek to increase the use of recycled materials in our
products wherever possible. Discussions with the authorities to determine the
amount that will be due to us as compensation for the higher costs are on-going.
Our status as the cost leader of our sector and our reputation for the highest levels
of service in the market have improved recently and, while we are not completely
insulated from the economic situation, our margins are continuing to recover and
demand for our products will, we believe, prove resilient. 
Bill Simpson
Chairman
5 January 2009 
