 6 Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s Report 
Introduction
I am pleased with the progress we achieved
in 2002, with generally good growth in all our
strategic business areas. We have recently
disclosed our plans for our new generation
point-of-care platform (code-name COLIBRI,
though this will not be its final brand name)
to potential partners and distributors, and we
have shown them a prototype display model.
The compact and elegant appearance has
impressed everyone and the proposed
performance characteristics and the menu of
markers appear to meet market needs. We
will also include our own proprietary markers
on this platform as their clinical utility
becomes accepted. This will be an important
element of the system as diagnostic testing
in general moves nearer the patient for more
efficient disease management.
Laboratory Diagnostics Division
The increasing utility of homocysteine and 
our strong patent protection covering virtually
all modern laboratory detection technology
continues to be reflected in growing demand
for our assays, aided during the year by several
major publications. We do not know the exact
number of scientific papers including
homocysteine that were published during
2002, but in the PubMed database alone 950
new publications are listed.
Major homocysteine studies published
include a report from O’Callaghan and
colleagues in Dublin showing multiplicative
risk of heart disease in smokers with raised
homocysteine levels and work from
Switzerland demonstrating improved
coronary blood flow when patient
homocysteine levels were reduced. Perhaps
the most significant publication was the
meta-analysis of 72 homocysteine trials by
David Wald et al in Southampton and St.
Bartholomew’s Hospital, London, published
in the British Medical Journal in November
2002, which concluded a raised 
homocysteine level was a cause of heart
disease. The authors state that “a modest
lowering of homocysteine concentrations by
3mmol/l, achievable by increasing folic acid
intake, would reduce the risk of ischaemic
heart disease by 16%, deep vein thrombosis
by 25% and stroke by 24%” .
In February 2003, the International Task
Force for the Prevention of Cardiovascular
Disease published new guidelines which,
for the first time, listed homocysteine as 
an important emerging risk factor,
recommending its routine measurement 
in certain groups, including smokers, and
those with a family history of CHD. This
group of international experts believe that
the cut-off for blood homocysteine should
be 12mmol/l, in contrast to the widely held
view that 15mmol/l should be the threshold
for mild hyperhomocysteinaemia, but in line
with new recognition of the insidious effects
of only slightly elevated homocysteine over
time. The recommendations also include a
treatment algorithm to lower raised levels
below the danger value. This task force
report will influence national guidelines
issued in each country which again should
lead to increased homocysteine testing.
Nearly all the current focus on homocysteine
testing is related to cardiovascular disease.
However, in February 2002, The New England
Journal of Medicine included an article by
Seshadri and colleagues from Boston
University School of Medicine, describing
data from the renowned Framingham study
indicating raised homocysteine was a strong
independent risk factor for the development
of dementia and Alzheimer’s Disease. This
represents an additional substantial
potential market for homocysteine testing.
We have endeavoured to increase physician
awareness of the utility of homocysteine 
using various means of communication and
promotion and this has certainly resulted in
increased press interest. At the same time 
we have recognised the drive for self
maintenance of health, particularly in the
“worried well” , so we have sponsored the
development of a separate website for
homocysteine at www.homocysteine.net
The site is under independent editorial
control and is designed to update both
professional and lay users on the latest 
news and publications on this increasingly
important marker.
Homocysteine sales in 2002 reached £7.4
million representing around 6.3 million 
tests. Although the number of companies
now marketing our assays has increased,
there has been little price erosion and
cannibalisation, but rather an increase in the
total available market. We believe the utility
of homocysteine is being recognised and
expect further significant market growth
over the coming years.
The demand for homocysteine as a disease
marker and our comprehensive patent
protection has led to some attempts 
to develop competitor test systems.
However, we are ready to re-inforce 
our patent position in the courts if it
becomes necessary.
One of the factors associated with elevated
homocysteine is a deficiency of vitamin B
12
.
However it is now well recognised that
conventional testing for total B
12
levels will
often not detect deficiency of the vitamin,
particularly the insidious malabsorption 
seen in many elderly individuals. This is
because only 20% of vitamin B
12
is actually
biologically available. Scientists are now
recognising that measurement of this
available fraction, called holo-transcobalamin,
or HoloTC, is likely to provide a much better 
Axis-Shield is now recognised in our
industry as a modern successful company
with innovative and high quality products
and the ability to invent, develop and sell
unique solutions on both near patient
platforms and large high-throughput
laboratory systems.
Svein W F Lien
Chief Executive Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
7
Key Clinical Areas
Effective risk assessment, diagnosis and patient 
monitoring in key areas of medical need.
Cardiovascular disease
In cardiovascular disease,
Axis-Shield is involved with two
exciting potential risk markers
–Homocysteine and Activated 
Factor XII (AFT).
Neurodegenerative diseases 
The vast amount of clinical 
research into homocysteine 
has also expanded its utility into
neurodegenerative diseases such as
dementia and Alzheimer’s disease.
Autoimmune diseases 
The autoimmune basis of major
diseases such as diabetes, multiple
sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis
(RA) is becoming increasingly
recognised. Axis-Shield’s new 
anti-CCP test is a real breakthrough
in the early identification of RA.
Alcohol-related disease
During the last few decades,
alcohol-related disease has
increased substantially and is
estimated that up to 10% of the
western total population is misusing
alcohol. The CDT test is of major
utility in the identification of
alcohol abuse.
Diabetes
Axis-Shield provides a patented
testing technology for
glycohaemoglobin (HbA1c),
a well established analyte for 
long-term evaluation of blood
sugar control.
Infectious disease
Axis-Shield’s biggest product,
NycoCard C-Reactive Protein (CRP)
is an important diagnostic tool,
enabling physicians to differentiate
between viral and bacterial
infections to decide whether 
or not to prescribe antibiotics.
Vitamin deficiency
Malabsorption of vitamin B
12
is a
real problem, particularly in the
elderly. Axis-Shield’s new HoloTC
test is achieving recognition as a
more definitive way of assessing
B
12
status. 8 Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s Report continued
assessment of a patient’s B
12
status. Professor
David Smith and his group at Oxford
University have studied this area for 
many years and now believe around 
15% of the elderly may have metabolic B
12
deficiency. He considers insufficient B
12
leads to neuropathies, cognitive deficit and
depression, and that this is clinically very
significant, given that there are 150,000 
new cases of cognitive impairment
(dementia) each year in the UK alone.
Dementia is defined as the global
impairment of memory, intellect and
personality, and about 70% of dementia
cases are classified as Alzheimer’s disease.
The incidence of dementia doubles every 
five years over the age of 60, and it affects
about 6% of people over this age, with about
five million cases in Europe (1995). By 2030 it
is predicted there will be 110 million people
over 60 in Europe, and around 10 million 
will suffer from dementia. We believe that
our test for HoloTC will not only impact the
$85 million global B
12
market, initially as an
aid to the interpretation of conventional
total B
12
measurement, which often
produces indeterminate results, but also
become important in screening of the
elderly. The development of a separate
website has also been sponsored for this
marker at www.HoloTC.net. Homocysteine 
is now also showing utility in this area,
in addition to its relevance in CVD, and 
David Smith has shown that elevated
homocysteine in the normal elderly is
associated with lower cognitive scores and
thinner medial temporal lobes in the brain,
both classical precursors to dementia. We
look forward to continued evidence of the
usefulness of both homocysteine and
HoloTC in this major disease area.
Sales of our autoimmune product range
declined slightly during the year to 
£2.2 million against £2.4 million in 2001, a
decrease of 8.2%. As reported at the half year,
this is largely a consequence of our biggest
OEM customer acquiring an organisation
producing its own autoimmune test kits.
The introduction of our new test for
rheumatoid arthritis (detecting antibodies 
to cyclic citrullinated peptide, or anti-CCP),
with FDA marketing approval, should
produce increased revenues going forward.
Acceptance of this new assay has been 
very positive and the data being generated
confirm its superiority to the current test of
choice for rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid
factor, which is known to produce false
positive results.
Our test for alcohol abuse, %CDT, achieved
an increase of 21.7% on 2001 revenues, with
sales of £1.7 million. We believe the future
success of this product will be dependent on
the development of a non-column method
of detection, and we continue our efforts to
develop such a technology. First results 
from an ongoing US clinical trial from the
University of Wisconsin, examining how 
CDT might help to detect high risk drinking
in 799 primary care patients being treated
for type 2 diabetes and hypertension, have
shown that routine CDT testing will assist
clinicians in identifying patients who are
alcohol abusers, and to institute appropriate
treatment as soon as possible.
In August 2002, Sangui Biotech Inc agreed 
to stop selling a competitive CDT product,
which we believed infringed our patent.
COL1A1 is our genetic test for detection of
predisposition to osteoporosis and bone
fracture. The kit identifies a mutation in 
one of the genes governing the metabolism
of collagen, the building block of bone.
Progress in the USA has been delayed by the
need for an internal control for the US
market but this technical issue is nearing
resolution and we look forward to strong 
US demand for this assay, which represents
probably the strongest genetic link to
osteoporosis in the literature at this time.
Our infectious disease range is now
principally confined to syphilis OEM assays
as a result of our divestment of elements of
this non-core product area during 2001.
Point-of-care (PoC) Division
Sales for the Group as a whole showed
modest growth of 3.5% to £16.5 million.
This illustrates the need to build on our PoC
position and our current mature NycoCard
product range by the introduction of the
new COLIBRI system. Currently close to
10,000 NycoCard instruments have been
placed in more than 40 countries worldwide.
This strong market position will be
invaluable when we launch COLIBRI.
The COLIBRI project remains on schedule for
first phase launch in 2004. The development
programme has resulted in significant third
party development costs, relating
particularly to the engineering of the
instrument and cartridge.
This third party cost, which is additional to
our normal R&D spend, is estimated to be 
£6 million of which £2.4 million was paid in
2002, with slightly more expected for 2003.
All our R&D costs, including the COLIBRI 
R&D costs, are expensed in our Profit and
Loss account rather than being deferred.
This means that we have no capitalised 
R&D costs in our balance sheet.
Once the instrument and cartridge have
been developed, their manufacture will be
subcontracted; however, we will assemble
and fill the cartridges in-house, and of course
100
80
60
40
20
0
99 98 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07
No. of tests (millions)
Year
Projected Homocysteine test volumes
Growth at 40%
Actual
Growth at 70%
1000
800
600
400
200
0
7000000
6000000
5000000
4000000
3000000
2000000
1000000
0
92 94 96 98 00 02
No. of PubMed Abstracts
No. of tests sold
Year
Homocysteine testing growth and published papers
PubMed Abstracts
Number of tests sold Research & Development
Our research & development comprises some 
70 scientists based in Dundee, Scotland and 
Oslo and Bodø, Norway.
Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
9
Exploratory and 
Early Phase Research
This key group is headed by our
CSO, Erling Sundrehagen, and is
tasked with identifying and
patenting new markers and
technologies for the future.
Point-of-care
Our scientists in Oslo are working
hard on delivering the new COLIBRI
platform for 2004, together with the
first wave of analytes. The sense of
excitement is palpable as we near
the launch of what will be a real
breakthrough in diagnosis at the
point of care.
Laboratory Division
Work continues in Oslo and Dundee
to launch our new markers and
improved methods of detection 
of existing analytes. The division 
is particularly concerned with
adapting our novel analytes to the
automated laboratories analyses of
the large global IVD companies. 10 Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s Report continued
manufacture the reagents required. This will
involve special purpose-built filling lines,
a semi-automated version which will be
delivered Q4 2003 and installed for production
to begin Q1 2004. This line will have a capacity
of up to three million cartridges per annum.
The planned automated filling line will have 
a capacity of around 20 million cartridges 
and delivery is scheduled for Q4 2004, with
validation for production use by Q1 2005. The
cost of the filling equipment will be capitalised
and written off over its useful life.
Laboratory prototypes of the COLIBRI system
have demonstrated that it is possible to
achieve the ambitious performance targets
we believe are necessary for commercial
success. The platform will offer full
automation as well as provide a wide menu
of tests, including tests for which we hold a
proprietary position. The concept is designed
to meet the US CLIA-waiver requirements,
which will enable us to penetrate the total
point-of-care market segment in the US,
including the doctor’s office.
The system will represent a breakthrough in
the field of point-of-care testing and offers:
• a compact, reasonably priced
instrument platform
• a wide menu of tests 
• very low volume whole blood samples
• quick results (3-5 minutes for most tests)
• automation, walk-away system
• a flexible user interface
• data connectivity
We believe the platform will generate much
interest in point-of-care sites throughout
the world.
Direct Distribution
Our direct distribution units are
independent arms-length units that not only
focus on selling our in-house products but
also on achieving individual profitability.
An important aspect of this is the selling of
third party products. At present two thirds 
of revenues are derived from distribution
agreements for non Axis-Shield products,
and this is therefore an important part of 
the business of these units. As a result both
Medinor and Axis-Shield UK can offer their
customers total solutions and in addition
build important business relationships with
other companies in the market.
Sales in the Nordic countries through our
Medinor subsidiary increased by 11.4%,
from £18.5 million in 2001 to £20.6 million 
in 2002. Distributed third party products
in these countries constituted £13.9 million
of this total, up from £11.8 million in the
previous year. This increase was helped 
by the acquisition of the business of the
regional Norwegian distributor Samarit
Engros in September 2002.
In the UK, we achieved total sales of 
£2.0 million, compared to £1.5 million 
in 2001. This included £1.0 million in sales 
of distributed third party products.
Our Plasmatec subsidiary, selling largely 
low technology IVD products to developing
countries, increased sales by 6% to
£1.6 million (2001: £1.5 million), with
particularly promising business from
Middle East tenders.
R&D Activities
By the start of the new millennium, medical
science had mapped out the human 
genome, which encodes for body proteins
and protein variants. These proteins and
protein variants control body function,
steering conception, growth, maturation,
disease, and ultimately the decline and end
of every human life. The science of protein
expression of the genes is today often called
proteomics. Axis-Shield embarked on
research in this area in the mid-1980s, and
2002 was the most successful year for our
R&D in this field to date.
The COLIBRI project brings protein testing 
to the point of care. Automated testing of
panels of protein and protein variants with
high quality, high speed and appropriate
ease-of-use is not readily available in PoC
markets such as the doctor’s office. Axis-
Shield’s unique position in protein variant
testing was the driving force behind our
strategic move into this emerging area.
Two inventions have facilitated this. The
discovery of the vertical filtration gold
colloid technology made in the former
Nycomed Diagnostics Division (acquired by
Axis-Shield in 1999) and the invention of 
a camera-chip monitored micro-fluidics
system. Both are now key elements of the
COLIBRI system.
The COLIBRI platform will bring current
PoC products to the market in upgraded
formats and also allow menu extensions
with additional new markers. Axis-Shield
holds patent positions and has developed
technologies enabling us to offer tests 
for prostate specific antigen (PSA),
homocysteine, high-sensitivity C-reactive
protein (hsCRP) and other novel markers in
addition to markers already available at the
point of care.
10
8
6
4
2
0
USA
1995
2030
EU Japan
Millions
UK
Estimated cases of dementia
5
4
3
2
1
0
Serum folate
RBC folate
Vitamin B 12
Odds ratio
Odds of developing Alzheimer's 
disease in the elderly
(associated with abnormal
levels of these markers)
Homocysteine Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
11
Sales Divisions
We develop innovative, proprietary in vitro
diagnostic products and we deliver through 
our three sales divisions.
OEM’s
We have ongoing sales
or collaborations with 
all the major IVD
companies
Axis-Shield plc
Laboratory Division
Dundee
Oslo/Bodo
Plasmatec
PoC Division
Oslo
Direct Sales Divisions
Medinor
Axis-Shield UK
Laboratory Diagnostics
Direct Sales
Distributors
OEM’s
PoC Diagnostics
Direct Sales
Distributors
Own and third party
products sold in
Nordic countries and
the UK 12 Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s Report continued
The breakthrough in our work to develop 
a specific HoloTc binder represents a
significant step for us – we anticipate that
we shall now need about two years before
market introduction of this non-radioactive
automatable immunoassay format.
During 2003 we will decide on which
instrument platform this product should
be launched initially.
Activated Factor Twelve (AFT) is a promising
marker for risk assessment in cardiovascular
disease. It has entered a new phase of
clinical research with a clinical trial in
Rogaland University Hospital in Stavanger 
in Norway, focusing on identifying the key
processes involving AFT in the development
of cardiovascular disease. Axis-Shield
commitment to AFT and its availability in
automated formats is unchanged, and we
expect to be able to report further progress
in this area during 2003.
Work on our marker for Carbohydrate
Deficient Transferrin (%CDT), used to
diagnose health-damaging alcohol
consumption, is focused on the creation of
an automated method which will enable us
to bring this marker out of highly specialised
laboratories to central routine labs and their
automated platforms. A new patent for this
technology was obtained in 2002 but so far
we have not been able to develop a working
prototype.
We continue to search for new markers of
cardiovascular disease. During the last five
years coronary heart disease has been
shown to have important inflammatory
components. Insufficient circulation of
blood leads to inflammation, and this is
often the first sign of disease. Axis-Shield
made discoveries in this area in 2002 and
filed a patent application involving testing
for impaired circulation, and has started 
to develop products for the management
of such disease.
Collaborations with our OEM partners on
new diagnostic products has always been 
a major part of our business. During 2002 
we worked with Dade-Behring and
Instrument Laboratories – two of the world’s
leading diagnostic companies – to develop
new homocysteine testing products to
increase our market penetration in this area.
We signed a new contract with Glasgow
University to strengthen our position in
homocysteine detection technology. With
Abbott Laboratories we are developing 
a product for measuring blood brain
natriuretic peptide (BNP), a new marker
for diagnosing pump failure in the heart,
and a kit for the detection of blood
testosterone.
Outlook
I believe that our unique combination 
of patented novel markers in key areas of
clinical need and our strategy of developing
a branded diagnostic system for the point 
of care represent a winning formula for 
the future prosperity of Axis-Shield. I also
consider that we have a strong management
team which will deliver our ambitious
objectives and by this time next year 
we will have seen further success with
homocysteine and our other laboratory
products, and that the COLIBRI platform 
will be close to launch. I look forward with
confidence to a challenging and profitable
future for our Company.
Svein W F Lien
Chief Executive,
31 March 2003
Clean room
2002 was a successful year of consolidation
and growth for Axis-Shield, with all divisions
performing well, and the PoC Division group
moving closer to the launch of COLIBRI.
‘COLIBRI’
Point-of-care system Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
13
Partnerships
The laboratory market is dominated by a handful 
of major companies. We have developed relationships
with these key players in order to place our tests 
on their instrument platforms.
1  Roche/BMC  
    ($3,780 million)
4  Bayer/Chiron ($1,880 million)
5  Beckman/Coulter  
($1,535 million)
6  Dade/Behring ($1,250 million)
7  Beckton Dickinson ($1,000 million)
8  bioMérieux ($865 million)
9  Bio-Rad ($818 million)
2  Abbott  
    ($2,932 million)
3  J & J/Ortho 
    ($2,000 million)
The leading IVD companies in 2001(Revenue)
