 6
Financial Statements
Chairman's Statement
There has been progress this year despite the fact that 
much management time was devoted to seeking a satisfactory 
re-financing deal as a result of bank pressure. 
Refinancing was eventually achieved with the move 
from Barclays to KBC in April 2010 and some measure 
of financial stability returned to the business. Executive 
management will now have more time to build on the 
operational improvements underway, notably in supply-chain 
performance. The board continues to slim the business and to 
increase focus on natural consumer healthcare products. Its 
intention is to improve margins and hence be able to increase 
marketing support for those brands which it has retained.
Performance
Revenue for the year was £30.2m, £2.3m lower than the prior year 
revenue of £32.5m. The company made an operating loss before 
exceptional items of £0.5m (2009:  loss of £1.9m) and an overall 
operating loss of £12.2m (2009: loss of £1.7m). Exceptional costs 
totalled £14m (2009: £1.1m) and were principally associated with 
£11.6m of goodwill impairment (2009:£nil), £1.4m fixed assets 
impairment and costs associated with financial restructuring. 
These items were offset by £2.2m gained from brand disposals 
(2009: £1.3m). Financing charges for the year totalled £0.4m 
(2009: £0.7m). The underlying loss per share was 0.90p (2009: 
2.80p). Basic loss per share was 14.49p (2009: 2.51p).
Net bank debt at the end of the year was £2.7m (2009: £3.8m). 
A major component of the reduction in debt was improved 
working capital and continued disposal of non core brands for a 
total of £3m of which £2.6m were used to reduce bank debt.
Dividend
The company is not in a position to pay a dividend at this time. It 
will do so as soon as is possible.
Refinancing
The refinancing of the business occurred  on 9 April 2010. Trading 
had become extremely difficult in the months before then but the 
refinance was completed with KBC Business Capital and gave the 
company some additional headroom. 
Board
Now that the refinancing of the company has been completed 
and the trading performance is improving, Ivor Harrison, Chief 
Executive, has decided to leave the company and take up a new 
role in support of the founder at Snapz Ltd, an early stage healthy 
snacks business. The board has decided to appoint Fred Whitcomb 
as Chief Executive in his place.
On 14 June 2010 Fred Whitcomb was appointed to the board as a 
non-executive director. Fred was a founder of Optima with Steve 
Quinn which Ransom acquired in 2005 and was an executive 
director of the company between June 2005 and December 2007. 
He remains a significant shareholder of the company with just 
under 14% of the equity and since June 2008 has been a director 
of Dr. Organic limited, a company in which he is also a significant 
shareholder. Having welcomed Fred back into the company after 
his departure in 2007, the board feels that his entrepreneurial drive 
will help to grow sales and develop new opportunities for Ransom, 
building on the groundwork of his predecessor. Ivor will continue 
in his position until 27 September at which point Fred will take up 
his new position. The board would like to thank Ivor for his major 
contribution in returning Ransom to financial stability and wish 
him well in his new venture.
Further board changes will come into effect following this year’s 
AGM on 28 October 2010. David Suddens and Tim Bridge will step 
down to focus on their other business interests. David has served 
on the board as a non-executive director, the last three years as 
Business Review 7 William Ransom & Son plc  |  Annual Report 2010
Business Review
Chairman and Tim has served four and a half years. The board 
would like to thank David and Tim for the invaluable support and 
advice they have offered to the board during their tenure. 
The board is pleased to announce that Sir Roger Jones has 
accepted the position of non-executive chairman effective from 
the date of this year’s AGM. Sir Roger has a life-long interest and 
involvement in natural healthcare and pharmaceuticals. He is a 
pharmacist, a Fellow of The Royal Pharmaceutical Society, and a 
“Qualified Person” under EEC medicine legislation. He worked for 
the Wellcome Foundation between 1968 and 1982 in marketing, 
operations and market development and in 1986 founded Penn 
Pharmaceuticals which he sold in 1999 to an MBO. In addition 
to founding other pharmaceutical companies, Sir Roger has been 
Chairman of the Welsh Development Agency and was a Governor 
of the BBC (1996-2002). Today he is Chair of the National Trust 
committee for Wales, Chair and ProChancellor of Swansea 
University and a Fellow of the Learned Society for Wales.
Ran Oren, Interim Finance Director, will continue in his role until 
the end of the calendar year 2010, and in due course, Sir Roger 
and Fred will announce further appointments to strengthen the 
board as befits an AIM quoted company.
Employees
The past year has been one of uncertainty for employees at 
Ransom given the financial position of the company.  A number 
of redundancies had to be made and workload increased for those 
remaining. I wish to thank all staff for their ongoing support and 
good spirit in dealing with the challenges faced.
Outlook
Progress is painstaking but real. What the company needs is a 
breathing space from financial pressure to be able to implement 
its strategy.
The two manufacturing divisions have undergone wholesale 
change and have returned to profitability. The prospects for 
Ransom Natural Products (RNP) remain good and sales are 
currently increasing.  
Ransom Consumer Health (RCH, formerly CHD – Consumer Health 
Division) has become a more focused business unit following 
the divestment of most of its licensed pharmaceutical brands. 
Products and packaging have been upgraded but marketing 
investment is required to make the most of the inherent 
attractiveness of these products. As savings from the restructuring 
of the supply chain are realised, resources are expected to become 
available to develop new products and to invest in consumer 
communication.  
I am pleased to be able to hand over to Sir Roger Jones with the 
company on a more stable footing than has been the case for 
the last three years. I hope that the new team will realise the full 
potential of Ransom.
David Suddens Non-Executive Chairman  
14 September 2010
