 William Sinclair Holdings plc 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am very pleased to be able to report a further improvement in the Company’s
results for the year ended 30 June 2007. The increase in profitability and the
strengthening of the Company’s balance sheet is the result of the continued
improvement in operations and increased emphasis on core activities and
profitable business activities. 
Sales turnover fell by almost 4% as we exited unprofitable business areas. Despite
this, we maintained our share of the retail markets.
Our joint venture, Freeland, has developed equipment to maximise the advantage
to be gained from increasing quantities of green waste. This will give us a
significant competitive advantage in the production of more peat-free and peat-
reduced growing media. We believe capitalising on this opportunity will play an
important part in our future strategy and our intention to improve our
environmental credentials. To maximise on this potential we have recently
announced the acquisition of a controlling interest in Freeland Horticulture.
Group profit before tax has increased by 72% which represents satisfactory
progress as we continue to improve overall shareholder value. 
We are proposing a final dividend of 2.5p, giving a total for the year of 3.5p. The
dividend cover is now 1.9 times which is consistent with our policy of gradually
improving this key statistic. 
The last year has been another period of change within William Sinclair and I
would like to thank employees, both past and present, for their cooperation and for
their efforts which are greatly appreciated.
Transfer of Company’s shares to AIM 
The Company successfully moved to the Alternative Investment Market in
December 2006. This has, we believe, increased the Company’s profile and
increased trade in the Company’s shares as investors recognised the benefits of an
AIM quotation particularly with regard to an exemption in respect of inheritance
tax and other tax advantages available to private individuals.
Change of year end 
As announced last year the Board intends to change the Company year end to 30
September 2008 resulting in a fifteen month financial period. There are
considerable benefits internally from this move and the revised timetable will be a
much better reflection of our trading year.
Outlook
The retail environment remains competitive but we are confident that we have the
right products, the right quality and the right service standards to continue to
improve performance and deliver strong results.
Bill Simpson
Chairman
26 September 2007
