 Overview
2002 revenues were £47.0 million compared
to £42.8 million in the previous year, an
increase of 9.7%. Gross profit margins
increased to 54.4% from 51.0% in 2001,
generating £25.6 million. Earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
(EBITDA) and before research and
development (R&D) were £10.7 million,
compared to £9.0 million in 2001. Overall
R&D spend was up by £3.2 million, from £6.7
million to £9.9 million, an increase of 48.6%
over the previous year. After taking account
of amortisation of intangibles arising from
acquisitions and of interest received, the loss
before tax in the second half of the year was
£2.0 million, with the full year showing a loss
of £2.2 million (2001: loss of £0.4 million). This
loss is in line with our expectations and is a
result of our forecast increased R&D spend.
The increase in R&D expenditure reflects our
stated objective to achieve significant
penetration in the growing point-of-care
(PoC) market with our new COLIBRI platform.
Cash flow remains strong and our net funds
at the year end were £14.7 million compared
to £9.5 million at the end of 2001.
Our strategic goals are to identify and patent
novel markers in key areas of medical need,
to demonstrate their clinical utility,
particularly in primary healthcare and
disease management, and to offer test
formats suitable for our partners with global
instrument platforms and ultimately for our
own PoC portfolio. We anticipate that the
growing demand for near patient testing will
create significant opportunity in the PoC
sector, which is currently not dominated by
any of the major multinational IVD 
companies. Our existing PoC platform
(NycoCard) does not offer sufficient flexibility
for menu extension, particularly for our own
unique markers and is not formatted for
mass acceptance in the US market. The new
COLIBRI platform, due for launch in 2004, will
be suitable for use in the USA and will 
have the capability to run a wide variety 
of different tests, using both chemical and
immunoassay technology. This new system,
together with our already strong position 
in the PoC testing market and our unique
patent protected markers, will give us the
opportunity to become a major supplier of
products to this high growth segment. It 
will also afford an opportunity to firmly
brand the Axis-Shield name in point-of-
care diagnostics.
A key difference between Axis-Shield and
other emerging healthcare companies is the
strong cash flow from our existing profitable
operations which allows us to fund our R&D at
levels which are substantial compared with our
turnover, without depleting our cash reserves.
Where we see attractive opportunities to make
additional investment which we cannot fund
from our recurring revenues, we finance these
separately to avoid weakening our strong
Balance Sheet. It is for this reason we
successfully completed a share placing to 
raise £8.0 million (net) in April 2002 which has
provided the incremental finance we needed
to accelerate the exceptional opportunity for
COLIBRI in near patient testing.
Operating Highlights
Laboratory Division
Homocysteine remains our key value driver.
Sales have continued to increase, and in
2002, they amounted to £7.4 million,
compared to £6.3 million in 2001, an increase
of 18.1%. However, volumes increased
substantially by 57.5% to 6.3 million tests and
this is partly as a result of one of our major
customers, Abbott, promoting the tests on its
high throughput AxSYM system, rather than
the higher cost IMx platform. The number of
companies now marketing our assays has
increased, and this has expanded the total
available market for our products. The utility
of homocysteine as a general marker for a
number of different conditions is still being
developed and consequently we expect
further significant market growth over the
coming years. Our strong patent protection
for homocysteine testing covers virtually all
modern laboratory detection technologies,
which puts us in a strong position to benefit
from this market development.
The increasing awareness of homocysteine
has been aided by the volume of new
publications (950 in PubMed 2002). This
included several major publications,
particularly in the prediction of risk of
cardiovascular and neurodegenerative
disease. One of the most important of these
was the meta-analysis of 72 homocysteine
trials by David Wald et al in Southampton
and St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, London,
published in the British Medical Journal in
November 2002, which concluded that a
raised homocysteine level was a cause of
heart disease. In February 2003, the 
2 Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chairman’s Statement
2002 has been another positive year of
growth for Axis-Shield. The Company is
now recognised as a leading developer
and manufacturer of innovative in vitro
diagnostic (IVD) products, with the capability
to adapt them to run on major laboratory
analysers. We are also investing in novel
technology to meet the growing demand 
for rapid and effective testing at the 
point-of-care, facilitating earlier disease
diagnosis and better patient management.
Nigel Keen
Non-Executive Chairman Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
3
International Task Force for the Prevention of
Cardiovascular Disease published new
guidelines, which for the first time, included
measurement of homocysteine as one of its
recommendations.
We continue to forge strong OEM
relationships, primarily driven by demand 
for homocysteine testing. Agreements 
were signed with Dade Behring GmbH and
Instrumentation Laboratory Inc. during the
year for homocysteine assays on major
platforms marketed by these companies.
In September 2002, Bayer launched our
homocysteine technology on the ACS-180
and Centaur systems, and sales have been
promising, particularly on the higher
throughput Centaur platform.
There is growing clinical interest in our
patented marker for more effective detection
of vitamin B
12
deficiency, HoloTC. An Axis-Shield
sponsored symposium at the recent 
American Society of Haematology meeting 
in Philadelphia was attended by a capacity
audience of 300, and it concluded that better
methods of determining B
12
malabsorption,
particularly in the elderly, are urgently required.
The fact that we have now developed the
technology for an easy-to-use ELISA test for
HoloTC should significantly enhance sales
prospects and OEM partner interest.
Progress on automation of our assay for
Activated Factor XII continues to be made,
and we have invested in a further clinical trial
and assay validation programme at the
principal hospital in Stavanger, Norway to
accelerate the process.
Our mature autoimmune portfolio has been
significantly enhanced by the launch of our
anti-CCP test for early detection of
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and its market
approval by the US Food and Drug
Administration. RA occurs in 1% of the world
adult population. Currently over 60 million
laboratory tests are performed annually to
diagnose this condition. The key to the
successful management of RA lies in early
diagnosis, especially with the recent
availability of new sophisticated drugs which
can arrest disease progression. Rheumatoid
Factor, the present test of choice for RA,
suffers from lack of specificity, and this means
there is a higher level of false positive results.
From the mounting published evidence, the
anti-CCP test from Axis-Shield meets the
need for a specific and sensitive marker for
detection of early RA.
During the year we removed a patent-
infringing competitor from the market for
our CDT test for alcohol abuse. Sales in 2002
increased by 21.7% to £1.7 million and we
continue to seek to develop a non-column
automatable assay for this marker in order to
further develop this market.
Point-of-care (PoC) Division
Sales for the PoC Division showed a small
increase to £16.5 million, compared to £16.0
million in 2001. This low level of growth
reflected the limited product range available
on our ageing NycoCard system, together
with a lower incidence of flu in 2002
affecting sales of our lead product, NycoCard
CRP . However, sales of NycoCard HbA1c, one
of our newer, proprietary tests which is used
to monitor long-term glucose control in
diabetics, were encouraging, at £2.4 million,
a 60% increase on 2001 sales.
Within the business, we have made
considerable progress in the development 
of our new point-of-care system, and 
we undertook a successful fundraising of 
£8.0 million (net) to accelerate its
commercialisation. The funds were primarily
directed towards the one-off costs of external
instrument and cartridge development and
capital investment in assembly lines. As
outlined in the half year statement, the focus
on the PoC programme has increased the
Company’s R&D actual and projected costs 
for 2002 through 2004. However, we anticipate
strong revenues from the PoC system post
launch, with significant impact on overall
profitability in the medium term.
The PoC COLIBRI project remains on schedule
for launch in 2004. A laboratory prototype 
has demonstrated that the challenging
performance targets we have set ourselves
are achievable. We have reached agreement
with partners for the production of the
instrument and cartridges to our exacting
specifications, and believe both organisations
will deliver on schedule. The COLIBRI platform
will offer full automation as well as provide
the opportunity for a wide menu of tests
including those for which we hold a
proprietary position. The concept is designed
to meet the US CLIA-waiver requirements,
with an ease-of-use allowing us to target the
doctor’s office, our principal point-of-care
market in the USA. We are confident that our
new system will meet market expectations
and achieve commercial success in a global
marketplace estimated to be worth in excess
of $4 billion, and that we will have a branded
platform which will allow us to offer our
patented tests at the point-of-care. 4 Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chairman’s Statement continued
Direct Distribution
Our direct distribution division sells both
Axis-Shield and third party products,
through Medinor in the Nordic Region and
Axis-Shield UK in the United Kingdom.
Medinor successfully integrated Samarit
Engros AS, a regional Norwegian distributor
acquired in September 2002. This has
strengthened our coverage in the south west
of the country. Medinor continued to improve
its gross margin in Norway and expanded its
product portfolio in the other Nordic
countries. Business in Norway and Finland
saw increasing turnover and market share.
In the UK, the team has been very successful
with the distribution of near patient markers
and there is a constant focus on expanding
and replacing the product portfolio with
more competitive products.
Research and Development
The restructuring of R&D has worked well.
The laboratory and PoC operating units have
taken responsibility for their own near-
market projects and Erling Sundrehagen
heads up an exploratory research group to
develop longer term projects for the Group.
A number of patents have been filed and
several new projects are now in the pipeline.
Additionally, we are working on a number of
external projects with organisations such as
Abbott and Dade Behring.
We announced a further agreement with
Glasgow University in September 2002 which
secured rights to patents held by the
University relating to homocysteine
measurement. This strengthens our position
in non-chromatographic homocysteine
detection and should allow us to offer a
wider menu of assays to potential licensees.
Our relationship with OEM partners
continues to grow as a result of the high
quality of our products. We are developing
testosterone and brain natriuretic peptide
(BNP) AxSYM kits for Abbott. We believe the
BNP assay, which is planned for launch later
in 2003, is likely to be particularly successful,
as a result of the considerable interest in the
use of BNP to diagnose heart failure.
Communication
As part of our objective to keep the
investment community informed of the
scope and opportunities for our business, we
held our third annual analyst teach-in during
January 2003, this time in Oslo. The event
was successful and we see this as an
important means of communicating our
message going forward. We are also mindful
of the power of the internet to facilitate both
professional and lay education and have
therefore sponsored the creation of separate
websites, under independent editorial
control, at www.homocysteine.net and
www.HoloTC.net.
Outlook
In the next financial year, we look forward to
continued growth in the Laboratory division
as the utility of our patented markers such as
homocysteine, HoloTC and anti-CCP becomes
increasingly recognised. We expect to build
further OEM relationships and strengthen
existing ties as we seek to ensure our
proprietary markers are available on the
widest possible range of instrumentation
platforms commonly in use.
We will continue to develop our new PoC
system in readiness for launch in 2004. As our
core operations are profitable, we have the
resources to make the investment necessary 
to achieve our launch plan for the COLIBRI
platform. In vitro diagnostic testing is
becoming increasingly recognised as a major
factor in efficient primary healthcare and the
ability to produce results at the time of
patient consultation is seen as an important
factor in the optimisation of patient and
disease management. We expect Axis-Shield
to achieve substantial prominence in this
vital and expanding sector, and as revenues
grow from this investment and our other
businesses we aim to deliver significant
increasing shareholder value.
Nigel Keen
Non-Executive Chairman,
31 March 2003 Our strategic goals remain to identify and patent
novel markers in key areas of medical need and 
to demonstrate their clinical utility, particularly in 
primary healthcare and disease management.
- Extensive portfolio of proprietary analytes
- Many patents filed for future products
- Leader in point-of-care technologies
- OEM alliances with major global companies
- Exploiting advances in genomics and proteomics
- Attracting many ideas from academia
- Driving consumer education via the internet
- Seeking synergies with therapeutics
Corporate Strategy
Axis-Shield plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2002
5
