 8
Financial Statements
  In summary
The turnaround continues and 
progress was made towards 
returning the company to 
profitability. A change of bank 
was required during the year to 
create more financial headroom 
and this was achieved in 
April 2010. Disposals led to a 
reduction in revenue but better 
margins and improved profitability have been achieved as a 
result. Underlying Operating Loss has reduced from £1.9m 
in the year ended March 2009 to £0.5m in the year ended 
March 2010. 
Ransom Consumer Health: Sales declined 19% mainly due to the 
divestment of non-core brands while the impact on operating 
profit was somewhat mitigated by the reduction in consumer 
marketing and headcount reductions in warehousing and 
distribution.
Ransom Pharmaceuticals: Sales were up 14% as a result of 
increases in customer orders and additional orders for Radian B 
while operating loss increased by £0.3m to £1.9m (2009: £1.6m) of 
which £1.4m relates to fixed assets impairment.
Ransom Natural Products: Sales improved 23% and operating 
results improved by £0.8m to £0.5m operating profit from £0.3m 
operating loss for the year ended March 2009.
Financial Restructuring
In order to pay down debt as banking conditions tightened, the 
company disposed of Metanium, the low margin honey brands 
Manuka Gold and Medibee, and Snufflebabe and Easybreathe. The 
cash position in the company was also improved through effective 
working capital management as stock levels continued to be 
reduced from £4.9m in March 2009 to £3.7m in March 2010.
The company secured refinancing with KBC in April 2010 which 
improved the funding availability to the business.  
Supply Chain Restructuring
A major factor in the weakness of the company has been the 
onerous and costly supply agreements in Ransom Consumer 
Health division. The decision was taken at the start of the year to 
move our supply base to the UK in order to secure better terms 
and more reliable supply. The scale and complexity of this task 
was significant but I am pleased that this has now almost 
been completed.
In addition, much groundwork has been undertaken in the year to 
identify and secure additional efficiencies in the supply chain. This 
work is on-going and is expected to result in improved margins in 
the new financial year.
Commercial Restructuring
Since the start of the turnaround, it has been a stated aim to exit 
loss making or sub-optimal commercial arrangements and to 
simplify the business where possible. In Ransom Consumer Health 
(RCH) action has been taken to restructure commercial agreements 
with some of our key customers that will benefit all parties going 
forward, reducing fully funded promotions. 
In July 2010 the company reached an agreement to sell certain 
assets and liabilities of its loss-making operations in Italy 
and signed a new agreement with the incumbent manager to 
distribute Ransom’s products in Italy and other territories. 
Chief Executive's Review
The period under review proved to be one of financial restructuring, sales 
retrenchment and operational groundwork that should set the base for a more 
stable, profitable and growing business in the period to come. 
Business Review 9 William Ransom & Son plc  |  Annual Report 2010
Business Review
9
Ransom Pharmaceuticals (RP) has made dramatic strides through 
new commercial agreements with customers and new business, 
while margins improved further from manufacturing efficiencies. 
The division has also benefited from the sales of Radian B to 
the new owner (previously inter-company when the brand was 
owned by Ransom and sold through RCH). Underlying Operating 
results improved by £1.2m from a loss of £1.6m to a loss of £0.4m 
(£1.9m operating loss including £1.4m fixed assets impairment). 
The division had been making heavy losses on a monthly basis but 
this position has now been reversed.
Ransom Natural Products (RNP) also improved its performance 
considerably during the reporting period with revenues up 23%, 
generating an operating profit of £0.5m (2009: £0.3m loss). This 
again was due to improvements in commercial terms and gains in 
new business. 
Overhead Restructuring
As the company has needed to reduce costs it has been necessary 
to become a leaner organisation. Permanent staff numbers 
were reduced from 188 in March 2009 to 166 in March 2010. 
Furthermore costs were reduced as the company incurred lower 
legal and professional fees and consumer marketing spend was 
cut back.
Driving Revenues
During the reporting period revenues for the company 
declined from £32.5m to £30.2m, with the brand disposals and 
discontinuation of lines accounting for £3.7m offset by the 
increase in revenue of £1.4m across RP and RNP. The full effect 
of the disposals is expected to reduce company revenues by 
approximately a further £3m. The challenge is now to rebuild the 
company’s revenues.
Given the cost controls the company has had to impose in the 
period, the main task has been to prepare the core brands for 
future investment when margins allow while maintaining existing 
distribution. This has been done in the form of packaging redesign 
and development. 
The new corporate logo with the botanical symbol is now 
appearing on all packaging in order to unify the products for 
consumers and establish Ransom as a leader in natural health. 
Many of the brands’ pack designs tended to focus more on 
product variety rather than brand name and this is now being 
addressed. The Glucosamine range from Health Perception has 
been rebranded Jointflex. AloeDent and AloePura have been 
similarly repackaged.  At the same time pack communication has 
been greatly enhanced. This change has been welcomed by our 
customers and consumers. Further improvements to packaging 
formats and updated designs have been made and will be 
appearing on shelf in 2010.
New product development and introductions, which had been held 
back for financial reasons, are now a focus and range extensions 
will be forthcoming. 
Export market development is an opportunity for Ransom and is 
now being led and driven successfully. The company has strong 
ties in the Middle East and growth of AloeDent continues there. 
Prospects
Today the company is more stable financially and underlying 
performance continues to improve. However uncertainties remain 
taking into account the continuing difficulties in the economy 
with reduced consumer spending power.
Ivor Harrison Chief Executive  
14 September 2010
