 William Sinclair Holdings plc 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
The full year results to the end of June 2007 show reasonable progress in returning
the business to an acceptable level of profitability; margins have continued to
improve, partly as a consequence of withdrawing from some low return contracts
but, more substantially, from further operational efficiency being achieved. 
Sector breakdown
Sales of retail gardening consumables were very strong having benefited from
exceptionally good weather during April and May – the key selling period. These
benefits were partially offset by the effect of the heavy rain in late May and June.
The Directors estimate the total market for retail gardening consumables grew by
approximately 10% year on year. 
Within retail gardening consumables the growing media sector, a key strength for
Sinclair, grew by 12% with the Company’s J Arthur Bower’s brand gaining market
share at the expense of branded competitors.
The Company is in the process of improving the packaging of its J Arthur Bower’s
growing media range and the new products are to be available in stores this
autumn. Consequently an increase in customer demand is expected next season.
There was no growth in the plant foods sector whilst demand for lawn treatments
was down by 8%. We believe that demand from commercial growers was the same
as the previous year with buyers cautious after several years of poor sales. William
Sinclair has lost market share in this competitive area.
Although the industry’s peat harvest this summer will fall short of expectations,
William Sinclair has a significant stock of raw material and the need for substantial
third party purchases in the year ahead is not anticipated.
Additional positive impact from restructuring strategy
Despite the completion of the recovery strategy the Group will continue to work
towards delivering further benefits.
The closure of our bark processing site at Flimby in Cumbria was successfully
completed in June 2007 and the new facility at Boothby is working well. The
benefits of this change will result in further efficiency improvements during the
current year.
William Sinclair’s manufacturing facilities are the best available and the Directors
believe William Sinclair is the lowest cost producer of growing media in the
industry. However there is room for improvement within our plant food and
fertiliser operations and further efficiency gains are expected in this area over the
next year.
We are continuing to look at options for consolidation and relocation of our
manufacturing and distribution operations in order to further reduce costs.
ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
During the year William Sinclair took significant steps to capitalise on its position
as the most environmentally responsible manufacturer in the sector.
Reducing carbon footprint
Our peat reduced multipurpose compost will display carbon footprint data from
this autumn. This information was calculated by an independent organisation and
one of the UK’s leading environmental agencies, AEA Energy & Environment. This
is a first in the gardening market. William Sinclair Holdings plc 5
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
In due course we expect most of our product range will follow suit displaying
similar information on all packaging. William Sinclair already has the lowest
footprint in the industry and the Company will continue to develop other
innovative ways to reduce this footprint further over the next five years. 
Freeland acquisition – reducing peat requirements and saving landfill
In July 2007 William Sinclair acquired a controlling interest in Freeland
Horticulture, the green waste recycling business. The Group purchased an
additional 37.5% stake for £0.75 million taking its total interest to 87.5%. A further
£0.225 million is payable in cash over the next three financial years if Freeland
achieves certain performance targets. Freeland reported profit before tax of
approximately £0.39 million for the year ended 30 June 2007.
The acquisition will allow William Sinclair to reduce the peat content of many of
its mixes without compromising the product quality. Eventually 500,000 tonnes of
material that would otherwise go to landfill will be used as a peat replacement in
the Group’s products thereby reducing the need to harvest and import peat. 
The acquisition of Freeland is an important part of differentiating William Sinclair
from its competitors and providing environmental solutions for existing and
potential customers. 
Renewable energy
All our electricity purchases are now from green sources.
Other environmental policies
Where our manufacturing operations are considered detrimental to specific
habitats we will engage in dialogue with interested parties to minimise risks. We
will consider reducing or terminating operations completely if no workable
alternative can be found.
When we have exhausted any given resource we aim to return it toward its original
condition even when we have no obligation to do so. Where we have done this in
the past biodiversity surveys show that 75% of species return within five years of
the start of the regeneration process. 
All our bark is FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified and comes from
sustainable forests.
CHANGE IN FINANCIAL YEAR
The financial year 2007-2008 will be the 15 months ending 30th September 2008.
The change in the year end will move the budget process away from the critical
selling period and allow management to focus on increasing turnover.
CURRENT TRADING AND THE YEAR AHEAD
Looking forward, the Company anticipates growth in sales over the coming year.
The improvement in packaging, market leading service, award winning quality and
environmental focus gives retailers products that enable them to meet the demands
of their own customers.
With capability to substantially increase output without significant capital
investment, the Directors remain confident about the Company’s prospects.
Bernard Burns
Chief Executive
26 September 2007
