 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
4 | William Sinclair Holdings plc
Overview
Results for the 15 months ended 30 September 2008 are disappointing and reflect a
difficult year for your Company. 
Margins fell as a result of severe cost inflation in raw materials and services combined
with the worst peat harvest in the last 10 years and a late and limited selling season.
Despite this we remain profitable, continue to pay a dividend and are confident about
our prospects in the coming year. 
Review of the period
Retail sales of gardening consumables normally surge at the Easter Bank Holiday
weekend which this year was in mid March 2008. Unusually parts of the UK
experienced snow in the week before Easter. Consequently, the sales increase was
modest. It was late April/early May 2008 before most of the UK experienced favourable
gardening conditions and the selling season never recovered from this late start.
The profit margin on this business was reduced by heavy cost inflation in packaging,
fertilisers, and transport. This was caused by rising oil prices and increasing agricultural
demand for fertilisers as legislation in the US and Europe stimulated the growing of bio
fuel crops. This demand also led to worldwide shortages, particularly of chemicals, and
price increases of more than 300% were commonplace for these items.
In an unprecedented move, we were forced to introduce price increases mid-season and
in August 2008 introduced an additional pallet surcharge. However, even this failed to
match the scale of the inflation. Our margins only recovered to acceptable levels after
the year end.
In contrast, sales to our professional customers were buoyant. Demand here anticipates
retail sales and the excellent selling season in 2007 led buyers to order substantially
more product than in recent years. As demand failed to materialise because of the
weather, production backed up in greenhouses, affecting our customers but having
little effect on the Company. Here, too, inflationary factors reduced margins and at
times we simply could not source sufficient raw material even at these higher prices
and some sales were lost. 
Freeland, which provides processed green waste for the horticulture industry and
produces topsoils for the construction and civil engineering industries, has performed
exceptionally well during the period. The nature of the Freeland business is short lead
times and short contract periods and they found it easier to keep selling prices and
costs aligned. The wet summer caused some operating difficulties but the net result was
20% ahead of plan and also ahead of last year.
The Joseph Metcalf business traded as a separate entity from January 2008 until the
restructuring of the business in August 2008. The majority of its customers continue
to trade within William Sinclair and appreciate the stronger brands, improved quality
and better service that William Sinclair offers. Joseph Metcalf provides William
Sinclair with significant mainland UK peat reserves. The integration of the Joseph
Metcalf business was more difficult than we had expected but has now been
successfully completed. 
As notified in the trading updates of 28 July and 25 September 2008, our peat harvest this
period was poor. Harvested volumes were only 45% of the average of the last 10 years
and only 90% of the next worst year. In addition, the peat we did harvest was heavy and
therefore the on cost of processing and delivering it will be higher than normal.
Nevertheless we incurred the usual harvest costs without sufficient reward with a
significant downside to profitability. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
William Sinclair Holdings plc | 5
Bolton Fell Moss
As outlined in our August announcement, Bolton Fell has been submitted to the
European Union as a candidate SAC under the Habitat Directive and it is almost certain
that the SAC status will be confirmed by the EU in the coming year. This would require
eventual cessation of harvesting which in turn would undermine the viability of the
adjoining factory. 
Compensation would be due to the company for loss of profit and disturbance.
Following discussion with Natural England we believe that harvesting can continue for
a further five years at a decreasing rate. Surveys of the area concerned and an exchange
of information are taking place in order to try to reach agreement on compensation but
this is unlikely to conclude before summer 2009. 
Environmental issues
In selecting Bolton Fell as a candidate SAC, Natural England acknowledge that the site
can be returned to its original condition within a limited time period. A reserve area
that we have maintained and protected has preserved the full biodiversity of an upland
peat bog and can be used to reseed the extended estate. We have already begun
restoring a 34 acre section of the bog and have achieved considerable success in re-
establishing typical flora and fauna.
Within the last 12 months we have increased the volume of recycled material we utilise
by 100%. We believe our product has the lowest carbon footprint of any major supplier
of growing media in the UK and we lead the UK market in peat reduction. Our reduced
peat and peat free products, sold under the New Horizon brand, are acknowledged as
the best of their type in the industry.
Current performance
The global recession has eased inflationary pressures on the business. Raw material
prices are falling although the weakness of sterling has the effect of reducing this benefit. 
Historically, recession has only a marginal effect on garden consumables. Given
favourable weather we expect consumer demand to match previous levels.  However,
the liquidity of some of our customers is causing concern. We insure against bad debts
but necessary levels of cover are being withdrawn on substantial and previously
dependable customers. 
We have sourced sufficient third party peat for our production requirements and will be
able comfortably to supply projected demand in the forthcoming season. A peat shortage
in the market as a whole has underpinned price increases in growing media and, as
transport costs and polymer prices have fallen back substantially from their peak and
fertiliser costs are expected to fall in the springtime, margins have returned to acceptable
levels in spite of our purchases of peat and peat substitutes from third parties.
Outlook
William Sinclair is less affected by the recent weakening of sterling than many of its
competitors as it is the least exposed to Euro zone costs. In addition, plant imports from
the Dutch growers will become more expensive which will increase activity in UK
nurseries and so stimulate demand from our professional customers. 
We are well placed to take advantage of this opportunity. In addition, as the lowest cost
manufacturer of growing media, any increase in customer demand towards no frills
ranges as a consequence of the economic climate will strengthen our position.
Bernard Burns
Chief Executive
5 January 2009 
