 4 AXIS-SHIELD PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
Business Overview
The company has made signiﬁcant steps
towards achieving its strategic objectives
and sustainable proﬁtability. We have
three core businesses in place to deliver
growth. These are in laboratory
diagnostics, point-of-care testing and
medical device distribution. Our core
competence continues to be the
development of novel
patentable diagnostic tests
in areas of clinical need,
making use of our special
skills in protein chemistry
to devise more effective
ways to measure technically
challenging markers. We will
continue to commercialise
our new tests through
distributors and by
adaptation onto the high
throughput instrument
platforms of the major
global diagnostic companies
which currently dominate
the hospital laboratory marketplace.
Growth will be further accelerated through
our innovative contract with Abbott, which
gives us a quick route to the automated
instrument market for our novel markers
without the substantial costs associated
with developing our own sophisticated
high throughput instrumentation.
We aim to capitalise on the rapidly
expanding market for point-of-care (PoC)
testing, particularly in the doctor’s ofﬁce.
This sector is currently not dominated by
any large companies and we have the
opportunity to build on our existing
presence in the market established
through our successful NycoCard™ system.
We have concentrated substantial resource
on developing the next generation of PoC
platform, with the potential to achieve
CLIA-waived status (allowing use in the US
doctor’s ofﬁce). In November we launched
the revolutionary new AFINION™ system at
the International Trade Show, MEDICA, in
Germany. 
We also successfully sell diagnostic tests
and medical devices to end-users in our
home markets of the UK and the Nordic
countries through our UK Sales Division
and Medinor and to developing countries
through Plasmatec.
Financial Overview
Revenues for 2004 were £52.3 million,
compared to £50.3 million in 2003, an 
increase of 4%. On a constant currency
basis and after allowing for the 2003 sale
of our autoimmune business, underlying
year on year growth equated to an
increase of 12%. Gross margins continued
their improvement to 53.3%, largely due
to a more favourable product mix, giving 
a gross proﬁt of £27.9 million. 
Chairman’s Statement Nigel Keen
“2004 has been an excellent year of progress which has seen Axis-Shield
ﬁrmly established as a supplier of innovative and large volume markers 
to the laboratory testing market and as a major player in the growing
demand for effective diagnosis at the point of care. The launch of our
AFINION
™
system represents a signiﬁcant milestone in our evolution, as 
it gives us a sophisticated instrument system to meet customer needs in
the important primary health care sector, complementing our established
NycoCard
™
platform. Our ﬁnancial performance has improved substantially
and I look forward to a period of sustained and proﬁtable growth.”
“2004 has been 
an excellent year 
of progress with 
substantially
improved ﬁnancial
performance.” Operating proﬁt before R&D and
exceptional items was £8.7 million,
compared to £6.0 million in 2003. Total
R&D spend decreased as planned by 22%,
falling from £12.9 million in 2003 to
£10.0 million. £2.9 million of the spend
during 2004 was attributable to the
continuing but reducing external cost
of the engineering and manufacturing 
development of the AFINION™ instrument
and cartridges (down from £5.7million
in 2003). The overall loss for the year
amounted to £1.2 million, a substantial
reduction compared to the loss of
£6.7 million in 2003. 
The loss for the year is in line with
expectations and reﬂects increased 
efﬁciency in our Laboratory Division since
the 2003 centralisation of operations in
Dundee, as well as reduced external R&D
costs on AFINION™. 
Our balance sheet remains strong and
cash at the year end strengthened to 
£11.9 million, compared to £10.1 million
at end 2003. 
Board
Earlier in 2004 we strengthened the Board
by appointing Olav Steinnes, head of our
Point-of-Care Division, as a new Executive
Director and Linda McGoldrick as a new
Non-Executive Director. To strengthen the
Board further we have now also appointed
Bay Green as a Non-Executive Director. 
Bay is a fellow of the ICA and a member 
of the Securities Institute with extensive
experience in corporate ﬁnance. He is
currently a Vice Chairman of Dresdner
Kleinwort Wasserstein and a Non-
Executive Director of Invensys PLC and RPC
Group PLC. We look forward to his valuable
input during this important period of
growth for Axis-Shield. 
Summary and Outlook
2004 has been another solid year of
progress for Axis-Shield with strong
performances from all divisions. The ﬁrst
AFINION™ instruments have been placed
and we look forward to the further 
roll-out of AFINION™ in the coming
months. This is expected to signiﬁcantly
augment the future sales of our 
point-of-care products. We anticipate
further growth of the homocysteine
market, particularly in risk prediction 
of cardiovascular and neurodegenerative
disease, as the US market stabilises with
the resolution of patent issues for
homocysteine. We expect increased
demand for our other novel markers such
as anti-CCP, coupled with Abbott OEM
products such as BNP. Our AxSYM
®
xtra
programme is scheduled to deliver as
planned, with ﬁrst launches targeted for
later in 2005 and this will create strong
growth for the Laboratory Division over 
the coming years. 
Our distribution organisations have
performed well and represent an excellent
platform for rapid commercialisation of
our new products in our home markets.
We expect to maintain a positive cash ﬂow
and strong balance sheet, particularly as
we continue to reduce our external R&D
spend, and we believe these factors will
come together over the coming years to
produce strong growth, proﬁtability and
increasing shareholder value.
Nigel J Keen
Chairman
6 April 2005
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 AXIS-SHIELD PLC 5
“We expect to maintain a positive cash ﬂow and strong balance sheet,
particularly as we continue to reduce our external R&D spend, and 
we believe that we are now well placed to deliver strong growth,
proﬁtability and increasing shareholder value over the coming years.”
Nigel Keen, Chairman
