 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Operational Review
Our strategy has been to systematically transform Wilmington into a high 
quality information, compliance and education provider servicing major 
professional markets.
By focusing on the fundamentals of our business we are able to improve 
the quality of our earnings. By investing in higher growth businesses and 
exiting from structurally challenged businesses and, in particular, reducing 
the drag from legacy print products we have created a Group with more 
predictable revenues, higher margins, growth prospects and strong 
cash flows. The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides the 
momentum for organic and acquisition investment. 
During the year, Wilmington produced another strong performance with 
Adjusted EBITA up 11% to £18.7m from £16.9m in 2013. Adjusted 
Profit before Tax was up 13% to £16.6m (2013: £14.7m). Adjusting 
for acquisitions, currency fluctuations and the termination of non-core 
activities, underlying Adjusted EBITA growth was 4%.
Group revenues in the year ended 30 June 2014 were up 6% to £90.0m 
(2013: £85.0m), reflecting full year contributions from the two acquisitions 
made in 2013 and the more recent acquisition of Compliance Week. 
Adjusting for acquisitions, currency fluctuations and the termination of 
non-core activities underlying revenue was up slightly on the same period 
last year.
The two largest divisions, Pensions & Insurance and Banking & 
Compliance, both continue to perform very well with strong organic 
revenue and contribution growth. It is in these areas where we see the 
best opportunities and where we are investing most heavily. However, as 
previously highlighted we have continued to witness more challenging 
conditions in our Healthcare and Legal divisions.
On 15 August 2013 we acquired Compliance Week, the leading provider 
of governance, risk and compliance information and events for public 
companies and large enterprises primarily in the US, which contributed 
£3.2m to revenue and £0.9m to operating profit in the year.
Pensions & Insurance 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
19% 31%
This division, which includes Axco, Pendragon, Inese and 
International Company Profile (‘ICP’) provides in-depth regulatory 
and compliance information, market intelligence, events, training, 
analysis and workflow tools for the international insurance markets 
and the UK pensions industry.
Divisional revenue grew 16% (£2.4m) helped by a full year revenue 
contribution of £2.7m (2013: £1.1m) from Inese, a provider of Spanish 
language subscription based publications, events and online services 
for the Spanish insurance market, which was acquired in March 2013. 
Underlying revenue growth was 7% after adjusting for adverse currency 
movements. As expected the divisional margin was a little lower than the 
previous year due to the full year impact of the acquisition of Inese which 
has operating profit margins of just under 30%.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
“By focusing on the fundamentals 
of our business we are able to 
improve the quality 
of our earnings. ”
Charles Brady  
Chief Executive
Transforming potential  
into performance
12
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Axco, which provides subscription information, market and regulatory 
intelligence, workflow tools and analytics for the multinational insurance 
market reported an 8% constant currency sales growth. Sales, which 
are driven predominantly by demand for in depth insurance market and 
regulatory information for all countries globally, benefited from increased 
demand for our new ‘Insight’ delivery platform which provides clients 
with tailored information which can be integrated into their own systems. 
We maintained our commitment to invest in and develop Axco content, 
products and services as well as continued investment in technology for 
content management and product delivery. In July 2014 we launched 
Insight Risk Manager, a regulatory intelligence service for the risk 
managers in multinational firms. This launch was supported by the major 
global insurance brokers and Airmic, the UK Risk Managers Association.
Pendragon, the leading digital regulatory information service for the 
UK pension industry, maintained its market leading position in the UK 
pensions market and recorded revenue growth of 4%. The business is 
investing in new delivery technology for launch later this year which will 
help strengthen the backbone of its information offerings for the future.
ICP , the leading provider of credit insurance reports for developing 
markets, has enjoyed another successful year with continued increase in 
demand for credit insurance reports, particularly in the Middle East. ICP 
recorded revenue growth of 9%.
Inese, which was acquired in March 2013, had a good year with 
revenue of £2.7m and a contribution of £0.7m to operating profits. This 
contribution of £0.7m when added to last year’s contribution of £0.4m 
represents a very satisfactory pre-tax return on our acquisition cost of 
£1.2m. The integration of Inese has gone very well and we are now 
focusing on investing in their products and services, which will include 
the implementation of new CMS and delivery technology based on the 
systems developed this year for Compliance Week.
Overall the division’s contribution grew by 11% to £6.8m (2013: £6.1m). 
Adjusting for acquisitions and currency fluctuations underlying profits 
were up 8% on 7% underlying revenue growth.
Banking & Compliance 
 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
24% 25%
The Banking & Compliance division provides corporate finance and 
capital markets training and accredited programmes in anti-money 
laundering, compliance, wealth management, financial crime and 
trust management along with subscription information and events. 
This division serves primarily tier one banks, the international 
financial services industry and major multinational companies.
The division continued to show strong revenue growth momentum 
with an increase of 32% compared to 2013 helped by £3.2m of new 
revenues from Compliance Week. Growth drivers included increased 
demand for Compliance and Anti Money Laundering programmes to 
international banks. Underlying revenue growth was 14% after adjusting 
for adverse currency movements. Margins grew from 21% to 25% helped 
by a contribution of £0.9m (28% margin) from Compliance Week and 
increased margins from our compliance training programmes. Underlying 
contribution grew by 34%.
International Compliance Training (‘ICT’) which provides accredited 
training programmes in Anti Money Laundering, Compliance and Financial 
Crime has continued to secure major in-house training assignments 
during the year and has a strong and growing pipeline of projects into 
the 2014/15 financial year. Growth drivers for this division include the 
provision of major anti-money laundering programmes to international 
banks. Demand for accredited face to face training is growing and we 
anticipate significant revenue growth from this area moving forward. 
We also continue to see opportunities in emerging markets with recent 
initiatives in Malaysia and Poland. To support this revenue growth we are 
investing in significantly more training and administrative capacity. 
The financial year 2013/14 was a record year for Adkins Matchett & Toy 
Group (‘AMT’), which provides corporate finance and capital markets 
training to major international investment banks. AMT saw revenue grow 
10% and contribution up 9% on 2013. AMT has benefited from significant 
investments in its client offerings and is increasingly using technology to 
support and supplement its core face to face courses. Initiatives included 
a cross divisional Massive Online Open Course (‘MOOC’) system for a 
global client covering fundamental banking skills. Elsewhere AMT Online 
is now an integral part of client offerings allowing for structured online self-
study, complete assessments and online exams with detailed feedback 
and reporting to the learning and development function.
AMT has had an excellent start to the 2014/15 financial year with its 
graduate entrant training for investment banks in its main centres of New 
York, Hong Kong and London. As AMT generates 50% of its revenue in 
the first quarter of the financial year this again bodes well for the rest of 
the year.  
Compliance Week has integrated well into the business since its 
acquisition in August and the redevelopment of its key content, 
management and delivery technology has been successfully completed. 
With the assistance of some of our UK based businesses Compliance 
Week also launched their first event outside of the US with the inaugural 
‘Compliance Week Europe’ which was held in October 2013 in Brussels. 
www.wilmington.co.uk
13
Stock Code: WIL STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
Healthcare 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
15% 13%
This division includes Agence de Presse Médicale (‘APM’), the 
French language medical news agency, Binley’s, the UK healthcare 
information business, and NHiS, a provider of business intelligence 
and data analysis to the pharmaceutical industry.
The division has experienced challenging market conditions in the 
period and although revenue was up 5% (£0.6m) adjusting for currency 
fluctuations and the full year of contribution from NHiS (acquired February 
2013) of £2.2m (2013: £0.9m) underlying revenue was down 6%. 
Contribution was maintained at the same levels as 2013 but underlying 
profits were down £0.3m (11%). 
APM has had another strong year with underlying revenue up 3%. APM 
has one of the highest proportions of subscription income in the Group 
at over 95%, with renewal rates also in excess of 95%. All of APM’s 
revenues are delivered digitally. Despite a difficult economic backdrop in 
France, the quality of APM’s editorial content has ensured its continued 
growth.
Binley’s underlying revenue was down 12% (£0.8m) due mainly to the 
fall-off in lower margin mailing services as reported in our half year 
results and the reduction in expenditure by some of our pharmaceutical 
clients. The business mitigated the impact on its profits by reducing its 
associated overhead base to offset some of the revenue loss. Onmedica, 
our permissioned GP email market access service, had a good year with 
revenue up 13% albeit from a relatively small base.
NHiS, a provider of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools 
and other services to pharmaceutical companies in the UK, which was 
acquired in February 2013, recorded revenue of £2.2m. NHiS has seen 
a shift towards consultancy led analytical assignments over the last few 
months as our clients seek deeper insight into the changing requirements 
of the NHiS. We are investing in the next generation of data visualisation 
subscription products as well as developing integrated solutions with 
Binley’s to our major pharmaceutical clients. We are also exploring some 
potentially exciting international opportunities where the NHiS technology 
and processes are very compatible. 
During the year we have significantly strengthened the Healthcare 
management team, with five senior appointments. I am optimistic that this 
team will bring new momentum and expertise to the division.
Legal 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
19% 10%
The division provides training, conferences, professional support 
services and information including legal continuing professional 
development (CPD), expert witness training, databases, magazines 
and specialist reports.
As previously indicated the Legal Division’s revenue was reduced by 10% 
(£1.9m) in the year. Underlying revenue decline was 8% adjusting for the 
disposal of Ark Australia in 2013. 
Central Law Training has continued to experience difficult trading 
conditions in its legal CPD courses. Legal CPD training is undergoing 
significant changes with the regulations governing minimum CPD 
requirements being relaxed by the Solicitors’ Regulatory Authority. This 
will mean that solicitors will, over the next 18 months, have to reassess 
how they undertake CPD to ensure that they are “Competent”. We 
believe that this change may bring positive future opportunities for the 
Group, but will also result in a period of less activity whilst solicitors 
reassess their training objectives and requirements. We have also 
experienced strong price competition and have seen the exit of some 
competitors from the market. Legal CPD revenue represents less than 
30% of the overall division’s turnover.
Central Law Training’s course programmes have been modified to reflect 
current market conditions. We have also changed the management team, 
with a number of executives leaving the Group. New appointments have 
been made, including the MD of Bond Solon taking over as Divisional MD 
and the promotion of new senior executives appointed at Central Law 
Training. These changes inter alia resulted in reorganisation costs  
of £0.2m.
Other than legal CPD the division has performed well. We have seen 
good growth in Bond Solon, our witness familiarisation business, which 
enjoyed a record sales year with revenue up 7% in the UK and 13% in 
Ireland. We have also seen a 27% increase in revenue from our Scottish 
legal training business.
Overall, despite the £1.9m (10%) decrease in revenue the impact on 
contribution from the division was mitigated due to good cost control to 
show a reduction of £0.6m. Margins had dropped slightly to 13%.
14
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
Business Intelligence 
 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
11% 11%
This division includes our Data Suppression and Fraud Prevention 
services as well as our Charities, Fund Management and Film & TV 
services.
Over recent years the division has undergone the most significant 
transformation of all our businesses, with the transition from a print and 
advertising based business to digital services, subscription information 
products and workflow tools.
Overall revenue was down 12% (£1.3m) but £0.8m of this reduction was 
due to exiting non-core activities including the low margin list brokerage 
service operated by Millennium. As previously reported we are seeing the 
expected decline in legacy print revenues being partially offset by growth 
of new, higher margin digital businesses. This has allowed us to increase 
overall margins from 23% to 26%.
The remainder of the division — our fund data, charities, data 
suppression, fraud prevention services and legacy notification businesses 
— have seen underlying stable revenue and improved profit performance. 
Overall contribution was maintained at £2.5m.
Accountancy 
% of Group Revenue % of Group Contribution
12% 10%
The Accountancy division is the leading provider of training, 
technical support and marketing services to UK Accountancy firms 
and accountants in commerce and industry.
Overall revenues declined by 1% in what was expected to be a quiet year 
in terms of legislation and regulation change. We saw a slight drop off 
in face to face training as a result. We are very pleased that despite the 
reduction in revenue contribution has been maintained at last year’s levels 
as a result of good cost control.
A growing percentage of the division’s revenue is generated from 
technical and marketing support for accountancy clients. Technical 
support initiatives include our market leading accountancy firm website 
platform and SEM solutions optimised for specialist accountancy 
practices.
Regulation and deregulation provide opportunities in the Accountancy 
market. With audit exemption limits continuing to rise and the introduction 
of micro-entity accounting simplification this is likely to be a constraining 
factor on short term revenue growth. However, offsetting this are 
opportunities from the implementation of IFRS to UK entities and the 
demand for more sophisticated technical and marketing support.  
Operating profits and margins were maintained at £2.1m and 20 percent 
respectively.  
Group Overheads
Group overheads, which include Board and head office salaries as well as 
unallocated central overheads, increased by 5% to £3.3m.
Charles J Brady  
Chief Executive 
17 September 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
www.wilmington.co.uk
15
Stock Code: WIL
