 6 AXIS-SHIELD PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
“I am pleased to report on another successful year which saw the company
move towards sustainable proﬁtability with the launch of our new
AFINION
™
Point-of-Care System and solid progress on our AxSYM
®
menu
expansion programme. We also believe that homocysteine sales are
resuming their growth as intellectual property issues are resolved.”
Operating Highlights
Laboratory Division
Revenue growth in this
division during the year was
achieved primarily through
sales of new Abbott products
and anti-CCP kits,
demonstrating the strength
of our range of products in
addition to our homocysteine
portfolio. Divisional turnover
in 2004 amounted to £16.0
million (£15.3 million in
2003), an increase of 5.0%,
or 18.5% on a constant
currency basis and allowing
for the 2003 sale of our
autoimmune business.
The centralisation of our Laboratory
Division operations in Dundee has resulted
in improved efﬁciency and has contributed
to improved gross margins. The conversion
of additional and previously unutilised
space in our Dundee facility to
accommodate the move of certain
processes from Oslo and to gear up for
increased Abbott AxSYM
®
production was
completed during the summer, partly
ﬁnanced by a grant from the Scottish
Executive. The expanded premises were
formally opened by Scotland’s Deputy
First Minister, Jim Wallace, on July 27. 
During the ﬁrst part of the year we also
successfully completed the post-sale
transfer of the autoimmune product range
manufacturing to Euro-Diagnostica in
Holland. 
Scientiﬁc interest in homocysteine
continues to grow and, in addition to the
established association of homocysteine
in assessment of cardiovascular and
neurodegenerative disease risk, data were
recently published in the Lancet showing
elevated homocysteine was associated
with an increased incidence of stroke.
An earlier 2004 publication suggested
the marker could also have some utility
in the early detection of increased risk of
osteoporosis. Despite this continuing
medical interest in homocysteine as an
indicator of increased risk of serious
disease, the sales of our tests reduced
from 8.4 million units in 2003 to 8.0
million in 2004, a decrease of 4.8%, with
revenues down from £6.8 million to £6.5
million. However unit sales in the second
half of 2004 were 4.5 million, compared
to 3.5 million in the ﬁrst half of the year,
showing a 28% increase on the ﬁrst half
and a 12% increase over H2, 2003. This
reﬂects the fact that the several issues
which have negatively affected sales have
been largely resolved. A principal factor in
this has been the uncertainty in the USA
regarding the activities of Competitive
Technologies Inc (CTT), which controls a 
“Our access to AxSYM
®
instruments will not only
substantially contribute to
revenues over the next 10
years and beyond, but also
gives us brand recognition,
particularly for our own
unique markers.”
Chief Executive’s Review Svein Lien ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 AXIS-SHIELD PLC 7
Abbott and Axis-Shield announce US clearance
for AxSYM
®
BNP test for heart failure
Axis-Shield and Abbott Laboratories today announce that
Axis-Shield has received clearance from the US Food and Drug
Administration for a B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) test for
use on Abbott’s AxSYM
® 
automated immunoassay system. BNP
is a cardiac marker used in the diagnosis of heart failure and
the assessment of its severity.
3 FEBRUARY 2004
Axis-Shield diabetes test chosen for major
Chinese research project
Axis-Shield today announces that Shanghai Upper Biotech, 
its Point-of-Care Division (NycoCard
TM
) distributor in China, has
entered into an agreement with the Chinese Ministry of Health
which involves the use of Axis-Shield’s product, NycoCard
HbA1c, in the research project “Integrated prevention and
treatment of diabetes”.
4 MARCH 2004
US patent which expires in 2007, covering
the potential use of homocysteine as a
surrogate marker of vitamin deﬁciency.
During 2004, the US Court of Appeal
unexpectedly upheld an earlier judgement
from a District Court in the USA which
effectively supported the CTT contention
that all homocysteine testing was
performed as a measure of vitamin status,
rather than for risk prediction of
cardiovascular and neurodegenerative
disease. We were not party to this action
and could not make any contribution to
refute this judgement. This Court decision
affected the US market with laboratories
reluctant to offer and promote
homocysteine testing under the threat of
litigation from CTT. The situation appears
now to have stabilised, with sales
resuming growth. Our marketing partners,
as the suppliers of the vast majority of
homocysteine tests to laboratories, have
agreed to pay royalties to CTT without
prejudice, in order to allow them to
resume marketing of homocysteine tests.
Our direct sales of homocysteine kits in the
US are small and as a result any royalty
liability payable to CTT would be modest.
We may choose either to resolve any
dispute with CTT through commercial
agreement or to test the situation in a
US Court. 
Homocysteine sales in the ﬁrst half of the
year were also affected by the availability
of unlicensed products in the market. The
favourable resolution of the homocysteine
patent dispute with Catch Inc. in April,
coupled with the agreement for us to
become the global manufacturer and
distributor of homocysteine tests based on
the Catch technology, has brought the
principal element of this unlicensed
competition into our portfolio of licensed
products. The agreement with Catch has
given us rights to use and license out an
adaptable and robust technology for
clinical chemistry instruments and, as a
result of our settlement, Beckman Coulter
Inc. has now signed an agreement with
Catch to use the Catch reagents on its
widely placed Synchron instrument
platform, with royalties to Axis-Shield on a
per test basis. We have now established a
good working partnership with Catch and
expect to announce further agreements
with large industry players keen to
commercialise this technology in the near
future. We have also made good progress
in setting up our own Axis-Shield label
sales through our global network of
distributors. In November we settled an
outstanding dispute with Catch’s main US
distributor, Carolina Liquid Chemistries
Corporation, giving us royalties for that
company’s prior sales of unlicensed tests.
The other factor which inﬂuenced 2004
homocysteine sales involved one of our
main OEM partners reducing previously
high inventory levels. This is now resolved
CASE STUDY // Laboratory Diagnostics
Use of homocysteine in cardiovascular disease
66% drop in homocysteine levels after two months treatment 
Catherine, aged 57, started not feeling well and having poor
concentration 2.5 years ago. Her blood pressure was 220/130 and 
she started on medication, and went on a diet, losing 2 stone. 
She also had an incident where she had extreme ‘ﬁreworks’ in her right
eye. In June 2002, she had a stroke. This was caused by a clot from her
almost occluded right coronary artery moving into the brain. The scans
revealed that she had already had a stroke on the right side of her
occipital lobe, which was no doubt what she had experienced with the
‘ﬁreworks’ in her eye.
She decided to have her homocysteine level checked in March 2003.
It was 22 µ mol/litre, putting her in the very high risk category. Catherine
began taking vitamin B 6, B 12 and folic acid, plus a multivitamin every day
to lower her homocysteine, and some additional magnesium. 
Two months later, in May, her homocysteine score had dropped to 
7.6 – a 66% decrease in two months. Her blood pressure has 
dropped to sometimes as low as 120/75. Her doctor has reduced her
hypertensive drugs, and she is feeling much better, less depressed,
and no longer feels lethargic. 8 AXIS-SHIELD PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
and we believe that going forward we will
see our homocysteine sales re-establish
their previous levels of growth as clinical
demand continues to increase and patent
issues disappear, as evidenced by the
increased sales in the second half of 2004.
Our collaborative product development
programmes with Dade Behring and
Instrumentation Laboratory for
homocysteine assays on these companies’
instrument platforms are nearing
completion and should add to
homocysteine revenues in 2005/6 and
onwards.
The recent launch of the AxSYM
®
BNP assay
by Abbott has been very successful, with
revenues to us of £1.8 million during the
period. BNP is considered the marker of
choice in the diagnosis of heart failure and
we expect further growth in sales of this
test. This will be helped by the signature
of an additional contract with Abbott to
develop and produce BNP kits for the
widely-placed but lower throughput IMx
®
system. This will allow Abbott to offer the
test in smaller laboratories and achieve
wider coverage for this clinically important
marker. In May Abbott also launched an
AxSYM
®
testosterone assay, developed and
manufactured by us, and the test received
FDA marketing approval in October,
permitting sales in the USA. 2004 sales
reached £268,000. In August, Abbott
launched the ﬁrst immunoassay for the
immunosuppressive drug sirolimus, 
which is used predominantly in renal
transplantation, on its IMx
®
analyser, 
after a tripartite collaboration between
Abbott, Axis-Shield and the drug’s
developer, Wyeth. The test, developed
and manufactured by us as an OEM,
achieved 2004 sales of £232,000. In May,
we signed an agreement with Abbott to
produce an assay for β2-microglobulin on
the IMx
®
instrument platform and this test
is now close to launch.
Activated Factor XII research continues in
Norway and further clinical data from 392
post-infarct patients in Bergen showed
that the marker strongly predicted future
coronary events in this population, with a
short-term predictive power superior to
conventional risk markers. We continue
our efforts to devise an automated assay
format for this marker. Work also
progresses on a non-column assay for CDT,
our marker of alcohol abuse which had
sales of £1.5 million in 2004 (2003: £1.6
million) and we look forward to increasing
the market penetration of HoloTC, our test
for better identiﬁcation of vitamin B 12
deﬁciency, once we have formulated the
assay for launch on the AxSYM
®
platform. 
Recently published data on the utility
of our patented anti-CCP test shows that
many patients with rheumatoid arthritis
have circulating antibodies to cyclic
citrullinated peptides in their bloodstream
several years before the appearance of
symptoms. These ﬁndings strongly link the
use of this new test with the use of the
new generation of drugs to treat
rheumatoid arthritis and we are now
seeing signiﬁcant interest from
pharmaceutical companies and physicians
using those drugs in the more widespread
application of this test in the management
Chief Executive’s Review continued ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 AXIS-SHIELD PLC 9
of this debilitating disease. The authors of
the Swedish and Dutch studies concerned
conclude that early screening for anti-CCP
is feasible and would be of considerable
help in the clinical management of
patients in whom rheumatoid arthritis is
predicted to develop. This has helped to
grow sales of our anti-CCP ELISA kit to
£936,000 in 2004, up by 105% over
2003. A January 2005 article in
Rheumatology News reporting on the 4th
International Congress on Autoimmunity,
held in Budapest, states that the
diagnostic value of anti-CCP antibody
testing in rheumatoid arthritis is now
conﬁrmed, with good sensitivity and much
greater speciﬁcity than rheumatoid factor,
the traditional marker hitherto used to
diagnose this disease.
In November, at the International Trade
Show, MEDICA, we announced further
details of our collaboration with Abbott
Laboratories which has been branded
AxSYM
®
xtra. A range of new high value
markers which we will develop and
manufacture will be launched over the
next two years and beyond, including
assays for anti-CCP, and HoloTC. Other
tests in the pipeline include glycated
haemoglobin (HbA1c), to monitor diabetic
compliance, intact PTH and Vitamin D for
abnormalities of calcium and bone
metabolism and renal disease, and D-
dimer for detection of deep vein
thrombosis. As well as giving us a platform
for our own patented assays this contract
also allows us to capitalise on the
potential of other already established high
volume markers not yet available on the
AxSYM
®
system. AxSYM
®
is one of the most
successful automated immunoassay
platforms, with over 17,000 instruments
in place worldwide. Our access to AxSYM
®
instruments will not only substantially
contribute to revenues over the next 10
years and beyond, but also gives us brand
recognition, particularly for our own
unique markers, in an area where 
own-brand labelling by large laboratory
instrument suppliers such as Roche, Bayer
and Abbott has dominated up to now. 
We recognise that it is essential to work
with the major in vitro diagnostics (IVD)
companies in order to ensure the widest
commercialisation of our key markers as
these companies control the majority of
the instruments installed and therefore
dominate the laboratory diagnostics
market. The validity and success of this
strategy has become increasingly evident
and our skills in adapting assays to
automated instrument platforms are
nowbeing soughtbymanyofthese large
diagnostic organisations for OEM contracts
for our own novel innovative markers as
well as markers which are not proprietary
to Axis-Shield.
TURNOVER £16.0m
LABORATORY DIAGNOSTICS
■  £6.5m  Homocysteine
■  £2.6m  Infectious Diseases
■ £1.8m   BNP
■  £5.1m   Other
Netherlands study supports use of anti-CCP test
in early diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA)
Dr Nielen (Amsterdam) notes that it appears “an unknown
trigger activates B lymphocytes to produce RA-speciﬁc auto-
antibodies several years before the appearance of a level of
inﬂammation that is perceived as symptoms.” He comments
further that “Our ﬁndings indicate that it may be possible to
predict RA development (using anti-CCP) in high-risk
populations”, raising the possibility of medical intervention to
prevent the development of the disease in these individuals.
18 MARCH 2004
New homocysteine marketing agreement
Axis-Shield announces that, following the settlement of its
homocysteine patent dispute with Catch Incorporated of
Bothell, Washington, USA last month, Catch has concluded a
marketing arrangement with Beckman Coulter Inc. Under the
terms of this agreement, Beckman Coulter will market Catch
reagents on its successful Synchron family of clinical chemistry
analysers. The Axis-Shield/Catch settlement provides that
Axis-Shield will receive royalties from all tests sold by Catch.
28 MA Y 2004 10 AXIS-SHIELD PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
Point-of-Care Division
Consolidated revenues were £18.3 million
compared to £17.8 million in 2003,
representing an increase of 3.2%, or 9.7%
at constant currency rates. In Norwegian
Krone (NOK) the division experienced year
on year growth of 12.9%. The adverse
currency effect reﬂects the weakness of the
NOK during the earlier part of the year.
The availability of tests that
can be performed quickly
and accurately in doctors’
surgeries is an increasingly
important part of better
clinical practice. New
technology coupled with
sophisticated software is
facilitating the availability
of diagnostic information 
to healthcare professionals
in a near-patient setting, 
thus directly inﬂuencing 
and beneﬁting patient
management and reducing
overall healthcare costs. 
Over the past decade 
Axis-Shield’s NycoCard™
system has capitalised on
this with several tests,
including CRP and HbA1c
(for monitoring diabetic
compliance). NycoCard™
has been particularly
successful in Northern
European markets and in Switzerland,
where the use of point-of-care testing is
more established, as well as in developing
countries where there are geographical
constraints on centralised laboratory testing
services. The NycoCard™ technology has
some limitations regarding menu expansion
and because it does not employ a fully
automated process the important CLIA-
waiver status in the US, permitting use
by non-laboratory professionals, is not
attainable.
Our new AFINION™ Point-of-Care System
was launched and demonstrated at the
international MEDICA exhibition in
Dusseldorf at the end of November, 
where it attracted much interest. This
development will drive our PoC business
and the branding of Axis-Shield and
AFINION™ in the near-patient hospital and
doctors’ ofﬁce environments. Early market
reaction to AFINION™ has been most
encouraging, particularly as our versatile
novel detection technology allows us to
offer a menu of tests using the same
standardised procedure, including 
analytes traditionally measured either 
by immunoassay or by clinical chemistry
technology. HbA1c, the ﬁrst test which we
have developed for use on AFINION™, is
working well and the assembly line for
reagent cartridges is now fully operational
in Oslo. A second line allowing a fourfold
increase in output will be installed in mid
2006. Early external clinical evaluations of
“Early market reaction to
AFINION
™
has been most
encouraging, particularly
as our versatile novel
detection technology
allows us to offer a menu 
of tests using the same
standardised procedure,
including analytes
traditionally measured
either by immunoassay
or by clinical chemistry
technology”.
POINT-OF-CARE DIVISION
TURNOVER £18.3m
■  £13.7m  NycoCard 
■  £3.4m   Coagulation
■  £1.2m    Other 
Chief Executive’s Review continued ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 AXIS-SHIELD PLC 11
AFINION
TM
using HbA1c (to monitor diabetic
treatment compliance) have shown the
system is quick, easy-to-use and very
accurate. The appointment of John Sperzel,
formerly Vice President of Marketing and
Business Development for Near Patient
Testing at Bayer Diagnostics, to head up
our US operations has facilitated several
options for AFINION™ in this major market
and we will ﬁnalise our US distribution
plans shortly. Outside the USA we have
been approached by many companies
seeking AFINION™ distribution rights and
we have recently signed exclusive
arrangements in Switzerland and Japan.
Focussing our Oslo operations into this
Division has improved efﬁciency and we
have seen tangible beneﬁts in our
AFINION™ project. We believe the system
represents a major advance in the
marketplace which is increasingly receptive
to the need for rapid and reliable near
patient testing. Previewing the system at
the July 2004 annual meeting of the
American Association of Clinical Chemistry
attracted much interest. Using the system,
we were able to demonstrate accurate
fully automated HbA1c testing in three
minutes in a number of volunteers, which
is approximately half of the time offered
by the fastest of our competitors for this
test. The ﬁrst certiﬁcation study for this
test on the AFINION™ system was
conducted by the European Reference
Laboratory for HbA1c at Winterswijk in the
Netherlands. The researchers demonstrated
excellent precision with a between run
coefﬁcient of variation of 1.5% and an
extremely good correlation with their
reference methodology. The base patented
technology we employ to measure this
analyte is the same as that used in the
NycoCard™ version of the test, which uses
a blue boronic acid derivative. In addition
to the existing AFINION™ HbA1c test, we
intend to launch tests for CRP and ACR
(adenine/creatinine ratio used to measure
renal function) during 2005, together with
PT (prothrombin to measure anticoagulant
efﬁcacy), where our experience in selling
conventional coagulation reagents will
prove invaluable. HsCRP (for cardiovascular
risk) and homocysteine are scheduled for
launch in 2006. An application for FDA
marketing approval for the HbA1c test was
submitted in February 2005; an
application for CLIA-waiver (to facilitate
widespread doctors’ ofﬁce use) will be
ﬁled later in the year. Additional markers
for the AFINION™ system menu will be
incorporated by simple software upgrades
on the instrument.
Launch of IMx
®
sirolimus assay
Axis-Shield today announces that Abbott Laboratories has launched
an IMx
®
sirolimus assay in all major countries except the USA, where
FDA clearance is awaited. The product was developed by Axis-Shield,
which will manufacture the assay in its Dundee facility.
IMx
®
sirolimus is the world’s ﬁrst commercialised automated assay
for this potent immunosupppresive drug, trade name RAPAMUNE
®
and has resulted from a three-way collaboration between Abbott,
Axis-Shield and the drug’s developer, Wyeth.
27 AUGUST 2004
Axis-Shield launches clinical chemistry
homocysteine test
Axis-Shield today announces that it has launched a new
method for the detection of homocysteine for use on a wide
range of automated clinical chemistry analysers worldwide.
Homocysteine is an amino acid which at high levels in the
blood indicates increased risk of cardiovascular and
neurodegenerative diseases.
18 OCTOBER  2004
POINT OF CARE // AFINION
TM
AFINION
TM
INSTRUMENT AND CARTRIDGE
What it does...
AFINION™ can produce test results in around 
three minutes
AFINION™ is fully automated and can be
used by a doctor or nurse without
speciﬁc training
Initially AFINION™ will carry tests to:
•  monitor diabetes 
• decide whether an infection is
bacterial or viral
AFINION™ will also include tests to:
•  monitor anticoagulation
treatment
•  assess cardiovascular risk
•  measure renal function
AFINION™ was introduced in non –
US markets in November 2004. Our NycoCard™ business
remains strong with our
instrument base now
increased to over 14,000.
We are seeing good growth
in some export markets,
particularly China, where 
the nationwide project to
investigate utility of the
NycoCard™ HbA1c test in
diabetics continues. Our
distributor in China has
signed an agreement with
the Chinese Diabetic
Association for the use of
the NycoCard™ system in a substantial
clinical trial that in its ﬁrst phase will
involve 200 sites and around 100,000
patients. This could eventually lead to our
tests for HbA1c and U-albumin being used
routinely to monitor the estimated
population of more than 40 million
Chinese diabetics. Volume sales of
NycoCard™ HbA1c kits were up 24% in
2004 compared to the previous year with
the complementary NycoCard™ U-albumin
kit (also used in diabetes) up by 63%.
Also, despite increased competition, we
maintained our dominant position with
NycoCard™ CRP. New markets for NycoCard™
during 2004 included several countries in
South America and the Middle East.
There is an increasing demand for key
diagnostic parameters to be tested in the
presence of the patient to ensure optimal
patient management. This is especially
important where management might
involve the prescribing of speciﬁc
pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics, as
unnecessary intake of these drugs is
leading to reduced effectiveness against
many pathogens. In this example good
clinical practice should encourage the use
of our highly successful NycoCard™ CRP
test, which empowers general practitioners
to differentiate between bacterial and viral
infections at the point of care and thus to
decide whether antibiotic treatment is
appropriate. We are responding to the
growth of this new discipline, often known
as “theranostics”, by building links with
major pharmaceutical companies in areas
where our tests can be used to inﬂuence
prescribing decisions. Another example of
this is the use of our anti-CCP assay in the
early detection of rheumatoid arthritis.
This is very important in the effective use
of the new generation of anti-rheumatic
drugs and the control of disease progression,
and therefore an anti-CCP test is a very
attractive candidate assay for the AFINION™
instrument system.
Direct Distribution
Sales in the Nordic countries through
Medinor reached £16.7 million for third
party products in 2004, against £16.1
million in 2003, an increase of 4%. Total
sales, including Axis-Shield products,
reached £25.1 million on a constant
currency basis, representing a 7% increase
over the previous year. Around 50% of
Medinor sales are from IVD and related
products with the rest coming from general
medical devices. Medinor is a pan-Nordic
distributor, with over two thirds of sales
from Norway. The State takeover of
hospitals in Norway has made for difﬁcult
and competitive trading conditions but
Medinor is well positioned and in 2004
achieved its targeted 5% net proﬁt margin.
12 AXIS-SHIELD PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004
Chief Executive’s Review continued
“Our NycoCard
TM 
business
remains strong with our
instrument base now
increased to over 14,000. 
We are seeing good growth
in some export markets,
particularly China, where
the nationwide project to
investigate utility of the
NycoCard
TM
HbA1c test in
diabetics continues” ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 AXIS-SHIELD PLC 13
Medinor has begun commercialisation of
AFINION™ in the key Nordic markets, where
PoC testing in the doctors’ ofﬁce is well
established.
UK sales reached £2.1 million (2003: 
£2.3 million). £1.3 million of this ﬁgure
was from third party distributed products.
Plasmatec, our Dorset-based subsidiary
selling mostly infectious disease assays 
and low cost commodity diagnostics to
developing countries, achieved sales of
£2 million, an increase of 8% over the
corresponding period last year.
These distribution businesses are valuable
to us, not only because they continue to
grow with both Axis-Shield and third party
distribution, but because they also allow
us to maintain direct contact with our
end-user customer base. 
Outlook
I look forward to further growth across 
all our divisions, particularly in Laboratory
Diagnostics and Point of Care, as we
beneﬁt from our heavy investment in 
these areas. I remain very positive that
Axis-Shield is moving into sustainable
proﬁtability and will deliver increasing
shareholder value.
Svein W F Lien
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
6 April 2005
Launch of new AFINION
TM
system
Axis-Shield today announces that it launched AFINION
TM
, 
a new, advanced yet simple- to-use point-of-care system, 
at the International MEDICA Show in Dusseldorf, Germany.
AFINION
TM
introduces a new approach to near patient testing.
It is extremely easy to operate and requires a minimum of
maintenance. The system is well suited for physician’s ofﬁce
use and other places where rapid test results are required
and laboratory professionals are not available.
24 NOVEMBER 2004
First Markers for AxSYM
®
System 
Axis-Shield, the in vitro diagnostics group, today announces
details of the ﬁrst tests to be produced by Axis-Shield for use
on Abbott’s widely placed AxSYM
®
laboratory analyser under
the agreement signed between the two companies last year.
This unique collaboration has resulted in the AxSYM
®
xtra
menu extension programme, which will introduce a new
range of tests for high value markers over the next two years
and beyond.
1 DECEMBER 2004
