 Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 10
Continued focus on high quality, high margin business. 
Robust financial position.
In the fast growing  
Far Eastern markets the 
reputation for excellence 
was recognised with 
ICTA being awarded 
the “2013 Winner of the 
FICS Inspiring Educator 
Award” by the authorities 
in Singapore.
Charles Brady
Chief Executive
Platform in place to 
support future growth
Chief Executive’s Review Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 11
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
In addition to the continued investment in new products, people 
and associated infrastructure contribution grew by 17% to 
£6.1m (2012: £5.2m) reflecting the operational leverage within 
the businesses. Adjusting for acquisitions and currency effects 
underlying profits were up 9%. 
Banking & Compliance 
19% of Group revenue, 18% of Group contribution
The Banking & Compliance division provides corporate finance 
and capital markets training and accredited programmes in 
compliance, anti-money laundering, wealth management, 
financial crime and trust management. This division serves 
primarily tier one banks, the international financial services 
industry and major multinational companies.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 16,566 15,251 9
Contribution  3,513 3,049 15
Contribution % 21 20
The division continued to show strong revenue growth 
momentum with an increase of 9% compared to 2012. Growth 
drivers included the provision of compliance and Anti Money 
Laundering programmes to international banks and major 
multinational companies in the oil and gas industry and on line 
retailing with particularly strong growth from the Far East. We 
have also launched new initiatives in Australia, Hong Kong, 
Indonesia, Malaysia, the Middle East and Russia. 
The division has launched new portfolios into the governance, 
risk and compliance (‘’GRC’’) market, cyber- crime, and 
corporate governance markets. The acquisition of Compliance 
Week will provide a natural introduction into many of these areas 
in the US market; an area where our compliance business has 
had little access in the past.
In the fast growing Far Eastern markets the reputation for 
excellence was recognised with ICTA being awarded the “2013 
Winner of the FICS Inspiring Educator Award” by the authorities 
in Singapore and ICTA was also awarded the contract to 
develop and award qualifications in compliance for Malaysia  
by the national regulator.
AMT had a successful 2013 in which it reported a record sales 
performance since it joined the Group. 2013/14 has begun 
well with another strong start to its graduate entrant training 
for investment banks in its main centres of New York, Hong 
Kong and London. As AMT generates most of its revenue and 
contribution in the first quarter of the financial year this bodes 
well for the rest of the year. 
Contribution for the division was 15% ahead of last year at 
£3.5m (2012: £3.0m) despite continued investment in new 
programs and support systems which will help drive future 
growth. Margins also showed pleasing progress up one 
percentage point to 21%.
As previously announced we now manage and report our 
business by reference to six market facing divisions; Pensions & 
Insurance, Banking & Compliance, Healthcare, Legal, Business 
Intelligence and Accountancy.
Pensions & Insurance 
17% of Group revenue, 30% of Group contribution
The Pensions & Insurance division, which includes Axco, 
Pendragon, Inese and ICP provides in-depth regulatory and 
compliance information, market intelligence, events, training, 
analysis and workflow tools for the international insurance 
markets and the UK pensions industry.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 14,629 12,481 17
Contribution  6,093 5,227 17
Contribution % 42 42
Divisional revenue grew 17% (£2.1m) helped by a maiden 
revenue contribution of £1.1m from Inese which was acquired  
in March 2013. Underlying revenue growth was 8%.
Axco, our insurance analytics, legislation and compliance 
information business reported a 12% sales growth helped by  
the launch of new products and analytics services. Sales were 
also boosted by increasing demand from emerging markets;  
an area where the recent acquisition of Inese should assist  
future development in Latin America. 
Further investment and developments have been made in the 
content of Axco statistics based products and services as well 
as continued investment in technology for content management, 
CRM and product delivery. The Group has invested in and will 
continue to invest in Axco’s product portfolio and in extending 
its global presence and offering. The acquisition of Inese was a 
good example of this commitment and strategy and the recent 
acquisition of Compliance Week will advance Axco’s plans to 
develop an increased US operation and grow its substantial US 
customer base. 
Pendragon, the leading electronic regulatory information 
service for the UK pension industry, maintained its market 
leading position in the UK pensions market and recorded 
steady revenue growth of 3%. The business is investing in new 
delivery technology for launch in 2014 and this will become the 
backbone of its information offerings for the future.
ICP, the leading provider of credit insurance reports for 
developing markets, has seen a continued increase in demand 
for credit insurance reports, particularly in the Middle East and 
recorded revenue growth of 5%. It is investing in XML delivery 
of its content to provide its customers with more integrated and 
flexible usage of its proprietary researched data.
Inese has been successfully integrated into the Group  
sharing central HR and central finance systems. Inese, with 
the benefit of a contribution from its leading annual industry 
congress “Insurance Week” in May 2013, contributed £0.35m  
to operating profits. Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 12
Chief Executive’s Review
INESE
A route to 
market for the 
Spanish and 
Latin American 
markets 
Inese, which joined Wilmington 
in March 2013, is a leading 
provider of Spanish language 
subscription based publications 
and online services along  
with training and a number  
of annual events including the 
leading industry congress; 
“Insurance Week”. Inese also 
operates a digital news service  
in Latin America.  Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 13
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
As well as a quality, profitable business 
in its own right this acquisition was also 
made with the aim of complementing our 
Axco insurance information business, 
providing Spanish language competencies 
and a route to market for the Spanish and 
Latin American markets.
Inese Collaboration with Wilmington 
Companies: Since acquisition we have 
commenced a number of areas of 
collaboration with Inese;
• Sales and content support to, and   
 from, Axco.
• Support for marketing for the recent   
 Compliance Week acquisition.
• Technology co-development with   
 Compliance Week and other Group  
 divisions.
• Provision of a Madrid trading base  
 for other Group activities.
Our colleagues at Inese have quickly 
adapted to life in the Wilmington group 
and have already provided a valuable 
contribution not only to our business but 
also our exposure to other non-English 
language markets.
Learn more online...
For more information about Inese 
please scan the QR code with your 
smart phone or visit:
http://www.wilmington.co.uk/
where-we-are/inese Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 14
Healthcare
15% of Group revenue, 14% of Group contribution
The Healthcare division includes Agence de Presse Médicale 
(“APM”), our French language medical news agency, Binley’s, 
our UK healthcare information business and NHiS, a provider of 
business intelligence and data analysis to the pharmaceutical 
industry.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 13,058 12,666 3
Contribution  2,836 2,511 13
Contribution % 22 20
Revenue was up 3% (£0.4m) but adjusting for currency 
fluctuations and the contribution from NHiS (acquired February 
2013) of £0.9m underlying revenue was down 3%. 
APM has had an excellent year with underlying revenue up 2% 
despite closing its loss making APM Sante business. APM has 
one of the highest proportions of subscription income in the 
group at over 95%.
Binley’s underlying revenue was down 5% (£0.4m) due mainly 
to the fall-off in lower margin mailing services reported in our 
half year results and the business is reducing its associated 
cost base to compensate. Over the last few years Binley’s 
has developed a higher margin pharmaceutical business 
intelligence arm which has now been combined with our recent 
NHiS acquisition into a separate operation with staff as well as 
product and customers transferred to the enlarged operation. 
The integration has gone well and the enlarged business is 
performing to plan. 
Overall contribution, helped by the addition of NHiS which added 
£0.3m to profits, has increased by 13%. Underlying contribution 
adjusting for exchange and acquisitions was up 2% reflecting 
good overhead control and the growth of higher margin 
business offsetting a reduction in lower margin mailing services. 
Legal
23% of Group revenue, 14% of Group contribution
The Legal division provides a range of training, professional 
support services and information including continuing legal 
education (‘’CLE’’), expert witness training, databases and 
magazines. 
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 19,266 21,671 -11
Contribution  2,884 2,784 4
Contribution % 15 13
The Legal division’s revenue reduced by 11% (£2.4m) in the year 
but this reduction reflects the disposal of our company formations 
business in June 2012 (which contributed £1.1m to turnover  
in 2012), the disposal of Ark Australia and the rationalisation  
of our conference and course programme, a process started  
in late 2011. Underlying revenue decline was 3%. 
We have seen good growth in Bond Solon our witness 
familiarisation business which enjoyed another record sales year 
with revenue up 13%. We have also seen growth in our public 
courses and Scottish legal training business.
The emphasis, however, has been on improving margins and 
taking difficult proactive decisions. We have reorganised the 
legal division in response to market changes and have exited 
unprofitable areas such as Ark Australia, and our Legal Practice 
Courses, NCLT. In other areas we have cut course outputs 
through combining regional courses and focussing on fewer, 
more central, locations.
The result is a more focussed business with a lower and more 
flexible cost base from which we expect to see profit growth. 
Despite the decrease in revenue we saw contribution from the 
division increase by 4% to £2.9m and margins increase by two 
percentage points to 15%. The underlying growth in contribution 
was a pleasing 17%.
Business Intelligence 
13% of Group revenue, 13% of Group contribution
The Business Intelligence division includes our Data Suppression 
and Fraud Prevention services as well as our Charities, Fund 
Management and Film & TV services.
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 10,948 12,388 -12
Contribution  2,523 2,917 -14
Contribution % 23 24
The division is experiencing the most significant challenges of 
all our businesses, as we continue the transition from a print 
and advertising based business to digital services, subscription 
information products and workflow tools.
Overall revenue was down 12% (£1.4m). As previously 
announced we exited contract directory publishing in June 2012 
and this reduced revenue by £2.2m compared to the prior year. 
This contract directory revenue was offset to a large degree by 
a full year contribution from Millennium (acquired May 2012). 
The underlying revenue decline adjusting for acquisitions and 
disposals was 11% and the largest impacts were seen in the 
Film & TV and Charities areas where we still have the majority of 
our remaining print and advertising products and are seeing the 
expected decline in legacy revenues being only partially offset by 
growth of new digital businesses. 
The remainder of the division; our data suppression, fraud 
prevention services and legacy notification businesses 
(Millennium and Smee & Ford) which do not have the pressure 
of migrating from print to a digital offering have seen underlying 
stable revenue and profit performance. 
  
Overall contribution dropped by 14% (£0.4m) to £2.5m however 
the underlying reduction was 11% reflecting improved underlying 
margins in legacy businesses as we transition from print to 
digital.
Chief Executive’s Review Wilmington Group plc Annual Report 2013 15
Financial Statements Governance Business Review Overview
Accountancy
12% of Group revenue, 11% of Group contribution
The Accountancy division is the leading provider of training, 
technical support and marketing services to UK Accountancy 
firms and accountants in commerce and industry. 
 2013 2012 Change
 £’000 £’000 %
Revenue 10,581 10,869 -3
Contribution  2,135 2,053 4
Contribution % 20 19
Overall revenues declined by 3% mostly due to the scaling back 
of our course output from Quorum resulting in an improvement 
in Quorum’s margins and overall profits. We have seen good 
growth in revenue in both our Northern Ireland and Eire 
businesses reflecting to some extent positive changes in the 
local market conditions. 
Roughly 60% of the Division’s revenue is generated from training 
with a growing percentage from technical and marketing support 
for accountancy clients. Again, a number of initiatives have 
been implemented including the launch of our market leading 
accountancy firm website platform and technical micro websites 
optimised for specialist accountancy practices. 
Regulation and deregulation provide opportunities in the 
Accountancy market. With audit exemption limits continuing to 
rise and the introduction of micro-entity accounting simplification 
this is likely to be a constraining factor on short term revenue 
growth. However, offsetting this are opportunities from the future 
implementation of IFRS to UK entities and the demand for more 
sophisticated technical and marketing support. 
Operating profits grew 4% to £2.1m and margins were again 
improved, growing one percentage point to 20%.
Group Overheads
Group overheads, which include Board and head office salaries 
and associated costs as well as unallocated central overheads 
and exchange gains or losses on translating foreign currency 
assets and liabilities, increased by £0.2m to £3.1m. 
Acquisitions
NHiS acquired for £5.6m in February 2013 - a leading provider 
of business intelligence, data analysis, workflow tools and other 
services to pharmaceutical companies in the UK.
This acquisition is complementary to our existing Healthcare 
business intelligence business, and has allowed us to combine 
our respective strengths and resources to develop our leading 
position in this niche area. During the year we integrated our 
Binley’s business intelligence operation into NHiS. NHiS in 
the period generated 60% of its revenues from subscriptions 
and a further 35 % from repeatable information sales. All of 
its information products, which accounted for over 95% of its 
revenue were delivered digitally.
Inese acquired for €1.4m (£1.2m) in March 2013 - the leading 
provider of information and events to the insurance industry  
in Spain.
Inese provides Spanish language subscription based 
publications and online services along with training and 
a number of annual events including the leading industry 
congress; “Insurance Week”. Inese also operates a digital news 
service in Latin America. As well as providing greater access to 
the Spanish insurance market for Axco it provides opportunities 
in the Spanish language insurance markets in South America, 
an area that Axco has been actively seeking to access. Inese 
recorded subscription sales of 38% and 34% of repeatable 
revenue including annual events during the period since its 
acquisition. Advertising revenue represented 14% of revenue. 
Post year end, Compliance Week was acquired for $11.2m 
(£7.2m) in August 2013. Compliance Week is the leading 
provider of governance, risk and compliance (“GRC”) information 
and events for public companies and large enterprises primarily 
in the US.
Compliance Week focuses on regulatory and compliance 
issues related to financial reporting, regulatory enforcement, 
corporate governance, enterprise risk management and related 
global issues, from consumer privacy to data management. 
Located in Boston, USA it provides a base for selective further 
US expansion and investment. This foothold in the US will also 
help the Group to expand Axco insurance information products 
and to take the Group’s compliance businesses into the US 
market. The Group also expects to provide opportunities to 
develop Compliance Week’s presence outside of its traditional 
US heartland.
Charles Brady
Chief Executive
18 September 2013
