 I am pleased to present my report on Wilmington’s results for the 
twelve months ended 30 June 2014. It has been a successful year in 
the ongoing development of Wilmington as we continue to make good 
progress and have again achieved solid earnings growth.
I am pleased that the Group has produced another year of solid growth 
in adjusted profit. This is testament to our strategy of building a quality 
business focused on providing information, compliance and education 
to professional markets. In an increasingly regulated world we are seeing 
many exciting opportunities. Wilmington’s businesses, which have 
become increasingly digital and international, are based on long-term 
client relationships with a high proportion of subscription and repeatable 
revenues.
Revenues in the year ended 30 June 2014 increased by 6% to £90.0m 
(2013: £85.0m). Adjusted EBITA was up 11% (£1.8m) to £18.7m (2013: 
£16.9m), reflecting strong organic growth in our Banking & Compliance 
and Pensions & Insurance divisions. I am also pleased to report a maiden 
profit contribution of £0.9m from Compliance Week (acquired in August 
2013) and a full year profit contribution from Inese and NHiS acquired 
earlier in 2013. The growth from our higher margin businesses, combined 
with the discontinuation of low margin activities and tight control of 
overheads has resulted in an improvement of 100 bpts in Adjusted EBITA 
Margin to 20.8% (2013: 19.8%). The growth in Adjusted EBITA combined 
with a reduced interest charge translated into Adjusted Profit before Tax 
up a pleasing 13% (£1.9m) to £16.6m (2013: £14.7m).
Although the year was successful overall, as previously indicated we have 
experienced challenging trading conditions in our Legal and Healthcare 
divisions which both suffered from adverse competitive pressures and as 
a result saw some underlying revenue and profit decline. In response we 
have made significant changes to the respective management teams and 
repositioned and strengthened our client offerings.
At 30 June 2014 net debt was broadly unchanged on the prior year 
at £33.7m (2013: £33.4m) despite investing £7.3m of net cash on the 
acquisition of Compliance Week at the beginning of the year. Gearing as 
calculated by Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA has reduced to 1.6 times 
(2013: 1.8 times) and Cash Conversion
6
 remained strong at 108%  
(2013: 115%).
In the year we have invested in a number of initiatives designed to 
enhance the quality of our prospects. I reported in February that the 
Group is investing in Salesforce.com
©
, as a new Group-wide CRM. 
In doing so we are taking the opportunity to review and improve all of 
the processes which operate across our businesses to establish best 
practice and maximise efficiency. These reviews and investments will 
provide the foundation for future development, materially enhance the 
way in which we interact with our customers and transform the way we 
run our businesses. These projects are progressing well.
Acquisitions
In August 2013 we acquired Compliance Week for £7.3m in cash. This 
investment is consistent with our strategy of growth through selective 
value adding acquisitions. It also increases our exposure to the growing 
corporate risk management and compliance markets as well as giving us 
a significantly larger presence in North America. 
Compliance Week is the leading provider of governance, risk and 
compliance information and events for public companies and large 
enterprises primarily in the US. Compliance Week has started to work 
with other Wilmington Group companies, providing access to their North 
American customers and markets as well as opportunities for developing 
new revenue streams. Wilmington is well placed to support Compliance 
Week’s ambitions to grow outside of the US and in October 2013 the 
Group successfully launched ‘Compliance Week Europe’ in Brussels.
Building a higher 
quality business
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
“The Group is well 
positioned to move to  
the next stage of its 
development; we have 
wider geographical 
presence, and invested 
in new strategic 
systems. ”
Mark Asplin  
Chairman
08
Wilmington Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
COMPANY OVERVIEW COMPANY OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Business Strategy
Our strategy is to increase shareholder value by delivering sustainable and 
growing profits from servicing the information, compliance and education 
requirements of the global professional business markets.
We continue to progress our strategic aims of moving towards 
higher quality and more sustainable income streams. Revenue from 
subscriptions and repeatable revenue were maintained at 79% of Group 
turnover (2013: 79%).
In addition, we have actively sought to increase our income streams from 
outside the UK where we see good prospects for long-term sustainable 
growth in many of the major professional markets we operate in. Revenue 
outside the UK has grown to 37% of total revenue compared to 32% 
last year. Alongside cost savings and product development which have 
already been implemented this should result in further progress being 
made in 2014/15. 
This strategy has delivered a portfolio of businesses with a significant 
proportion of revenues derived from subscriptions to products which 
disseminate content-rich, high-value information digitally along with 
certificated education and compliance programmes. Tighter regulatory 
control and more complex legislation in many of our key markets will 
continue to drive the demand for our products and services globally.
Board Changes
As reported earlier this year, Charles J Brady (‘Charlie’) has announced 
his intention to retire as Chief Executive. At the request of the Board 
Charlie has agreed to stay on in a part time capacity as an Executive 
Director and to continue in his role in our Banking & Compliance division 
as Chairman of the International Compliance Association (‘ICA’). Charlie 
has been a part of the ICA since its inception 12 years ago. We are 
pleased that he has agreed to continue to assist in the development of 
our growing international compliance training business.
We undertook a rigorous process to find a successor to Charlie, 
supported by external recruitment consultants and led by the Nomination 
Committee. I am delighted that Pedro Ros has joined the Board and will 
take Wilmington to the next level in its development as our new Chief 
Executive. Pedro is a highly experienced executive who previously held 
senior Board positions at WPP plc and TNS plc. Pedro brings to the 
Group a wealth of international acquisition, market research and social 
media experience together with a proven ability to grow information and 
professional services businesses. 
I would now like to take this opportunity on behalf of the Board to 
formally thank Charlie for his leadership over the last 12 years and for 
handing over the business in such a strong position as his legacy. Charlie 
spearheaded Wilmington’s digital transformation, shifting the Group from 
a predominantly print based trade magazine publisher to the multinational 
digital provider of high quality information compliance and education it is 
today. Charlie will ensure an orderly handover to Pedro and will step down 
as Chief Executive on the 1 October 2014.
Pedro, working with the executive management team and the Board is 
currently undertaking a review of our business and will provide an update 
in December 2014. I am confident that he will bring a new perspective 
and fresh ideas, all of which should make for an exciting future.
Richard Cockton, the Company Secretary, has also indicated that he will 
retire at the AGM in November 2014. I am delighted to announce that 
Linda Wake will become Company Secretary in succession to Richard, 
whilst maintaining her role as Deputy Finance Director. On behalf of myself 
and the Board I would like to thank Richard for his excellent contribution 
to the Group, both as Company Secretary and as Chief Accountant over 
the past 16 years.
Dividend
I am proud of the Group’s record of maintaining its dividend over the 
recent years. It reflects our confidence in the strategy and resilience of 
our business models. The improved financial performance has reflected in 
increased dividend cover.
7
 I am pleased to confirm that the final dividend 
for this year will be 3.7p (2013: 3.5p) per share making a total dividend of 
7.3p (2013: 7.0p) per share for the year an increase of 4%. The dividend 
cover following for this year is 2.0 times (2013: 1.9) and it is the Board’s 
intention to maintain its progressive dividend policy whilst ensuring that a 
suitable dividend cover is maintained.  
The final dividend of 3.7p per share will be paid on 10 November 2014 to 
shareholders on the share register as at 17 October 2014.
Wilmington’s People
As a digital information, compliance and education company, operating 
in dynamic and competitive markets, we are fundamentally reliant on 
the quality and professionalism of our people. I would once again like to 
express my own and my fellow Board members’ appreciation of the hard 
work and dedication of our people.
Outlook and Current Trading
I am pleased to report that the new financial year has started in line with 
our expectations.
The Group is well positioned to move to the next stage of its 
development; we have widened our geographical presence, strengthened 
our back office and operational management teams and invested in new 
strategic systems. The business continues to offer good opportunities for 
us to generate attractive returns over the long term.
The macro economic climate is still changing slowly for the better and 
the Group is in a good position to take advantage of this. We are seeing 
tighter regulatory control and more complex legislation implemented in 
our key markets and remain confident that these changes will continue to 
drive the demand for our products and services globally. 
Mark Asplin  
Chairman 
17 September 2014
Notes
6. Cash conversion – see note 28 to the financial statements.
7. Dividend cover – Adjusted Earnings per Share divided by the Dividends in respect of the year.
www.wilmington.co.uk
09
STRATEGIC REPORT
Stock Code: WIL
