 r ichard Joyce 
Non-executive Chairman
2007 was a year of considerable change at 
WIN. We strengthened the Group through 
acquisitions and personnel, whilst maintaining 
our profitability and improving the cash 
position. WIN has been transformed from a 
business primarily focused on delivering alert 
services to become a leading provider of end-
to-end, rich media mobile solutions, and is 
now a partner of choice for Europe’s leading 
mobile operators and blue-chip businesses. 
This transformation means we can now provide greater depth 
across our solutions, customers and geographies. We believe 
our new, innovative services can lead to higher margins and 
greater profitability. Two important acquisitions broadened 
our customer base towards the end of the reporting year, 
and a further acquisition was made in January 2008. These 
acquisitions have added content management expertise, 
increased our geographic and customer reach and provided 
exposure to new mobile operators, both in the UK and across 
the world. These additions to the Group are expected to open 
up cross-selling opportunities during 2008.
Originally providing roadside 
assistance updates, mobile is 
now an integral interaction 
channel, utilised by AA 
driving schools, internal 
communication and insurance 
services. Partnering with WIN, 
the AA has seen large cost-
savings and can provide their 
customers with award-winning 
service, including reminders, 
updates and specialist hearing 
impaired assistance.
c hairman’s statement
6 WIN plc    Annual Report and Accounts 2007 We have strengthened the management 
team at both the board and executive 
level to enable us to manage the increased 
reach of the Group and we continue to 
drive through the changes needed to 
complete the transformation. The Group 
will continue to invest in the functionality 
and depth of our base messaging 
system during 2008, as well as develop 
new innovative solutions to meet the 
increasing demands of the mobile market.
The mix of our business has changed 
through our focus on richer media solutions, 
reflected in the growth of managed service 
provision and enterprise solutions. 
We are excited about a number of revenue 
enhancing developments in 2008, including 
greater reselling through our major channel 
partners, the launch of a mobile Video-on-
Demand (“VoD”) platform, and providing 
greater flexibility and scalability across our 
core messaging platform.
The work achieved in the last 12 months 
has ensured the Group is now in a much 
stronger position in our chosen market 
areas and we look forward to our next 
stage of growth. Our confidence is 
reflected in the decision to pay a maiden 
final dividend of 1.2p per share, making a 
total of 2p for the year.
RICHARD JOyCE
Non-executive Chairman
We believe our new, 
innovative services can 
lead to higher margins and 
greater profitability.
7 WIN plc    Annual Report and Accounts 2007
