 WIN has grown both organically, through 
the natural increase in the demand for new 
innovative services within the mobile industry, 
and through acquisition. The Group increased 
its content management offering and 
geographical reach in preparation for meeting 
the future needs of the market.
We have become further embedded with our existing 
customers, offering them new, innovative products and 
services, allowing them to increase efficiency and reduce 
costs, improving customer satisfaction. We have found that 
our Enterprise clients are embracing our customer relationship 
management (“CRM”) services, as technology evolves and 
mobile phone users become more receptive to its capabilities. 
Growth in this sector was particularly strong.
The Group’s reorganisation of its customer offering during 2007 
into five clear product suites continues to prove successful and 
our clients have seen excellent benefits through the use of our 
five core technologies across these suites. In particular, the 
uptake of our media rich content solutions has shown the most 
long term promise and now represents 31% of total revenue.
Across our three main business segments, Mobile Operators, 
Enterprise and Media we continue to be a market leader in both 
original solutions and excellence in delivery. 
Mobile Operators
The mobile network operators continue to be our dominant 
source of business, representing 47% (2006: 49%) of gross 
profit and the Group now provides services to 70 international 
operators. Our relationship with Vodafone live! continues to 
grow, as we steadily add new managed services into their 
pipeline, including video alerts for the UEFA Champions League 
and video match summaries for the Barclays Premier League 
which benefited from a full year effect of the contract signed in 
2006. The Group has remained close to O2 and has executed a 
number of campaign based projects, including Tutankhamun’s 
“visit” to the O2 centre in London. Our recently acquired music 
For leading Greek operator 
Cosmote, WIN has so far 
developed 9 official i-mode 
sites that are all among the top 
3 in their respective categories, 
offering content from leading 
brands such as Esquire, Top Gear, 
Pink Woman and DownTown. 
WIN offers the entire i-mode 
value chain, from the creation 
of storyboards, to hosting and 
managing the site and billing 
the end customer.
graham r ivers 
Chief Executive Officer
c hief executive’s r eview
8 WIN plc    Annual Report and Accounts 2007 content management company, Pocket 
Group, is one of the key music providers for 
Sony Ericsson and offers WIN access to  
1.5 million music tracks and brings business 
services to 60 operators in 35 countries. 
The next phase in our partnership with 
the operators will be to provide a VoD 
offering and we expect to roll this out 
during the second quarter of 2008. Whilst 
we experienced strong growth in WAP and 
mobile internet based content services, 
this was off-set by a decline in the more 
traditional Subscriber Interface Module (SIM) 
card based services.  This decline has now 
halted but its effect will continue to be felt 
in the first few months of 2008 compared to 
the equivalent period of 2007.
Enterprise
The area of operation which continues 
to deliver the most impressive growth is 
the Enterprise market. Gross profit in this 
sector increased by 48% in the year and 
the Group has seen a strong take-up of its 
services by a number of large companies, 
including Barclays, Centrica, HBOS General 
Insurance, E.on and National Rail Enquiries. 
The scale of this up-take means WIN now 
provides services to 60 major businesses. 
The Enterprise sector represented 11% of 
gross profit in 2007 (2006: 8%). The Group 
is becoming a valued partner to these 
organisations through the realisation of 
mobile as part of their integrated offering 
to their customers. Greater acceptance of 
mobile messaging as a highly effective 
method of communication, coupled with a 
higher level of technological stability means 
the Group expects to see a continuation of 
strong growth in profitability from this sector 
in the coming year.
Premium Rate and Media
As expected, our exposure to the Premium 
Rate and Media sector has reduced from 
34% to 30% of gross profit, although we 
continue to maintain an important presence 
in this market with a focus on key clients. 
The decline in Premium Rate is expected to 
slow further in 2008 as we begin to offer a 
small group of our Premium Rate customers 
more value added services. We believe that 
the degree of regulation has settled and the 
Group has terminated a number of services 
to non-compliant customers. 
The Media sector remains an exciting area 
for WIN. We have expanded our relationship 
with the BBC to provide richer solutions for 
its listeners and viewers, mainly through 
interactive technology for radio and TV. The 
Group intends to pursue other avenues in 
the media and broadcasting space though 
the recently acquired Pop-i Media, which 
has a strong relationship with Sky television, 
being one of only ten companies to provide 
interactive services for Sky’s “Red Button” . 
International – Greece 
The Group’s Greek business, WIN SA, has 
now launched its MT Billing platform, after 
local operators finally began to permit 
cross-network billing, some two years later 
than originally planned. We expect the first 
MT revenues this month and we will watch 
its development with interest given that 
the launch of the UK’s billing service in 2002 
led to WIN’s early growth. Within Greece, 
we have seen growing revenues from 
interactive broadcasting services for live 
programmes on Alpha TV. 
We will continue to use Greece as a base to 
expand our geographic footprint within the 
We continue to be a market 
leader in both original 
solutions and excellence  
in delivery.
9 WIN plc    Annual Report and Accounts 2007 fast growing south-eastern European region. 
Early success includes the launch of a major 
mobile marketing promotion to a leading 
mobile operator in Croatia in February this 
year and we expect to continue to develop 
further mobile marketing campaigns within 
the region.
Acquisitions
The three acquisitions the Group has made 
since 20 September, Quattrocomm, Pop-i 
Media and Pocket Group, enable WIN to 
compete across more aspects in the mobile 
sector. The focus of these acquisitions was to 
extend the Group’s specialist content 
management capabilities, as well as increase 
knowledge, skills and geographic presence. 
The acquisitions provide access to new 
mobile operators and customers, and enable 
significant cross-selling opportunities for the 
Group’s already considerable range of 
solutions and services. The full integration of 
these companies will be completed during 
this year.  
Management
Finally, in 2007 we further strengthened the 
management team with the appointment of 
a new CFO, Lance Moir, and recruited new 
senior managers in the Group in the areas 
of operations, development, product and 
commercial management. We now have in 
place a strong management team with a 
clear vision for growth in the Group. 
MARKET REVIEW
As ever, the mobile phone marketplace 
continues to develop at a rapid pace as 
new handsets are launched and new 
technologies are embraced, providing a 
number of potential opportunities for the 
Group. In particular there is increasing 
interest within the Enterprise sector as the 
corporate world recognises the importance 
of embracing the mobile platform as a 
significant element in their customer 
relationship management process. In this 
regard, WIN sees opportunities through 
supporting customer relationship managers 
with our end-to-end service as well as 
supporting mobile marketing campaigns, 
with which we have already seen success.
Within the Network Operator sector, the 
move to outsource the management and 
delivery of content continues to offer good 
opportunities for WIN. During the year, 
we have seen an increase in demand for 
our managed content services from Top 
Tier operators. A robust, high performance 
technical platform backed by global content 
merchandising skills is key to our success in 
this sector. In addition, we see a broader up-
take of similar services outside the mobile 
operators particularly within the big media 
corporations and online companies. 
The mobile industry continues to seek 
further profitable growth in data revenues, 
particularly from the mobile internet. 
Improvements in network speeds, the right 
handsets (such as Apple’s i-phone) and a 
vast increase in the scope and nature of 
content, such as Facebook and youTube, 
are driving consumer demand. The network 
operators are also beginning to reduce the 
cost of access and WIN believes that it is 
ideally placed to take greater advantage 
of this development through the launch of 
its enhanced WIN Interact which will allow 
streamed and downloaded videos and films.
Increasingly, the media and broadcasting 
industries are looking for new, immediate 
ways to interact with their audience. Going 
t he next phase in our 
partnership with the 
operators will be to provide 
a VoD offering.
c hief executive’s r eview
10 WIN plc    Annual Report and Accounts 2007 forward, we expect that it will be core to 
broadcasters’ strategies to encourage and 
develop this interaction. The widely reported 
premium rate phone-in voting scandals in 
2007 have resulted in new regulation aimed 
at preventing this happening again, which 
we view as positive for our business. Most 
viewers and listeners are now comfortable 
in participating in their favourite shows 
from the comfort of their homes. WIN’s role 
in this exciting and profitable medium is to 
provide non-premium rate, richer interactive 
experiences; areas in which we have already 
achieved a leadership position.
Finally, the Premium Rate sector remains 
an important source of revenue to the 
mobile phone industry. Whilst regulatory 
pressures have impacted the overall 
market over the past three years, leading 
to the elimination of many of the smaller 
players, it has left a stronger group of 
committed content suppliers who are 
seeking to improve their services and add 
further value in the chain. We will continue 
to strengthen our relationship with 
partners in this sector.
OUTLOOK
We believe that the Group has never been 
stronger based on our ability to sell new, 
innovative managed services to the mobile 
operators and enterprise businesses, and 
having already achieved considerable 
success in this endeavour to date. Our recent 
acquisitions complement our knowledge 
and skills-set, allowing the Group to sell-in 
higher margin managed services. 
The new area of mobile advertising 
and marketing also promises to be an 
exciting development in 2008 together 
with our expansion across Europe – both 
have the potential of adding significant 
new revenue.  We anticipate making 
further acquisitions to extend both our 
geographical reach and to increase our 
capabilities and routes to market.
Finally, we have begun to group our customer 
solutions into three clear business areas: 
We continue to be a classic aggregator  »
of messages and payment transactions, 
which remains a high volume, low margin 
business, but one where we have been a 
market leader for the past several years; 
We provide integrated connectivity  »
solutions and services to our Enterprise 
clients; and
We offer fully managed services to the  »
operators, content owners and media 
companies. 
We have secured new clients to deliver 
services to in the early part of 2008 and 
progress in the coming year will rest on our 
ability to deliver deeper services into our 
current clients, expanding the reach of our 
recent acquisitions, developing new 
solutions such as the video on demand 
platform and launching MT billing in Greece. 
We see considerable potential in our chosen 
markets and we will continue to drive 
change through the business. The Board 
looks forward to the future with confidence.
GRAHAM RIVERS
CEO 
We have expanded our 
relationship with the BBc to 
provide richer solutions for 
its listeners and viewers.
11 WIN plc    Annual Report and Accounts 2007
