 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   17
The annualised revenue effect of new contract wins and renewals in the year 
totalled £280m, as compared to £250m in 2008/09. Approximately 65 per cent 
of new wins were generated from our existing customer base.
This high level of business expansion with existing customers has been a feature 
of our performance for many years, confirming the strength and depth of our 
customer base, the operational excellence of our performance and the innovation 
that we bring to our customer relationships. We help our customers to grow 
successfully and profitably and our business grows with theirs.
UK & IRELAND
The UK & Ireland businesses reported underlying operating profit of £48.4m  
on revenue of £1.3bn, and an operating margin of 3.7 per cent. This represents 
reductions of 7 .8 per cent and 8.9 per cent respectively on the results in the  
financial year to 31 March 2009.
The Manufacturing business unit makes up approximately 40 per cent of UK & 
Ireland revenue, Retail approximately 55 per cent and Pullman Fleet Services some 
5 per cent.
Revenue
Some 50 per cent of the revenue reduction is accounted for by the transfer of  
our chilled consolidation activities, with the balance split broadly between our 
Manufacturing and Retail business units. 
Within Manufacturing, revenue from the full-year impact of contract gains with 
customers such as BP Gas, Marley, Procter & Gamble, Lafarge and BAE Systems offset 
the reduction in revenue from contracts either lost or from which we withdrew, and 
from contracts with two customers who went into administration in the period. 
Revenue within the Manufacturing business unit is split equally between open and 
closed book, with closed book contracts generally more exposed to adverse 
movements in customer volumes. 
The contract base in the Retail business unit is made up of approximately 75 per 
cent open book contracts and 25 per cent closed book contracts. Net new business 
was won in Retail in the year, with the overall revenue decline being attributable to 
factors such as the closure of our shared user home delivery operations and 
network reconfiguration decisions by certain grocery retail customers.
Within the Retail and Manufacturing business units our new sectors and services 
contributed revenue of £290.8m, an increase on the £255.2m reported in the  
prior year, with most activities seeing market share gains which together more  
than mitigated the effects of volume pressure in certain activities as a result of the 
economic downturn. 
Pullman Fleet Services, our market-leading vehicle maintenance and fleet management 
business, reported a slightly higher revenue performance this year than in 2008/09.
Operating profit
Generally speaking, our open book contract base, which represents 61 per cent 
of our UK & Ireland business, generates a substantially fixed fee, rather than 
volume-related, profit stream.
Underlying operating profit of £48.4m reflects a generally strong performance with 
good new business wins continuing to provide profit momentum in challenging 
markets. Most of the headline year-on-year reduction, from £52.5m in 2008/09, is 
accounted for within the Retail business unit, represented by a combination of the 
costs of empty space in certain shared user warehousing sites, last year’s loss of 
Woolworths into administration, and lower results from certain of our new sectors 
and services. 
Within the overall UK & Ireland result, the profit contribution from the new sectors 
and services, before the allocation of central overhead, declined from £12.5m last 
year to £10.3m in 2009/10. Consistent or growing levels of profitability in construction, 
containers and defence were more than offset in the year by a poor performance 
in our shared user home delivery network, subsequently closed, and the costs 
of increased capacity and/or new systems in foodservice, records management 
and recycling.
Pullman Fleet Services returned to profit growth this year following a strong new 
business performance, particularly in the management of home delivery fleets for 
major retailers.
MAINLAND EUROPE
Revenue and underlying operating profit of £856.5m and £6.2m were respectively 
5.4 per cent and 1 2.7 per cent lower than in the financial year to 31 March 2009 in 
headline terms, although the underlying reductions were higher once movements in 
sterling/euro exchange rates are taken into consideration. Operating margin remained 
broadly unchanged at 0.7 per cent. 
Given that most of our Mainland European businesses operate on a closed book 
basis, and that as a result profit contribution is more likely to be affected by changes 
in customer volumes, maintaining our headline margin is testament to the speed 
and effectiveness of the management action taken to offset the financial effects of 
operating in extremely difficult markets.
Revenue
Germany contributed a little under 70 per cent of the Group’s revenue in Mainland 
Europe, with 23 per cent generated in Western Europe (France and Benelux) and  
the balance in Central & Eastern Europe. 
Revenue in the German business in 2009/10 was made up approximately as to 
40 per cent from our road transport activities, 35 per cent from our intermodal 
activities on the Rhine and 25 per cent from contract logistics. All areas reported 
similar rates of reduction in activity levels. Western Europe experienced a slightly 
lower level of revenue decline, with growth in our international transport and freight 
management activities, particularly through our new hub on the Dutch/German 
border, offsetting the effects of reduced volumes within many of our warehousing 
operations. Our Central & Eastern European activities also saw generally weaker 
volumes in their domestic operations, mitigated by new business opportunities 
in international transport and freight management.
Over the next five-year rolling strategy period, the  
 Wincanton portfolio of activities has very significant  
 growth potential.
£2, 182.9m
GROUP REv ENUE
20.9p
UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER Sh ARE
UK & IRELAND REVENUE
 Retail
 Manufacturing
 Pullman Fleet Services
56%
5%
39%
UK & IRELAND REVENUE
 Open book
 Closed book
61%
39% 18   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
How we performed
Operating profit
Underlying operating profit in Germany was substantially unchanged on last year, 
with higher profitability in intermodal and contract logistics offset by increased 
losses in our road activities, pending implementation of the major restructuring 
programme which began to take effect in the final quarter. 
Both the intermodal and contract logistics activities generate profit contribution 
margins broadly in line with those of the Group’s activities in the UK & Ireland. 
Successful completion of the road restructuring programme, the benefits of which 
we expect to be delivered through the first half of the new financial year, will give a 
more stable, profitable business base to the German operations.
In Western Europe, our contract logistics activities continue to suffer from the costs 
of under-utilised space. Economic recession has clearly not assisted in this respect, 
given that market declines have led to competitor space becoming available at 
extremely aggressive prices. Our transport business also reported reduced profitability, 
with good performances in domestic and international freight management, 
substantially based on sub-contracted transport, held back by losses in our remaining 
in-house fleet in France. Western Europe overall recorded a small loss in the year.
Similar market trends were evident in Central & Eastern Europe, with highly 
competitive warehousing rates and lower customer volumes putting pressure on 
the space utilisation and profitability of our sites. The region nonetheless returned  
to profit this year with new business wins adding further momentum to the  
benefits of recent restructuring and reorganisation.
NET FINANCING COSTS
Net financing costs, at £19.9m, were 8.7 per cent higher than last year, with a first  
half charge of £8.0m increasing to £1 1.9m as a consequence of the arrangement  
fees, higher margins and commitment fees on our new banking facilities.
Our financing costs can be analysed into cash items, essentially the interest paid on 
our loans, and non-cash items, which consisted substantially in 2009/10 of the non-cash 
charge calculated, in accordance with IAS 1 9, on our pension fund assets and liabilities.
As illustrated in the table below, cash interest payable actually reduced in the 
period, with the benefit of lower base rates only offset from November onwards by 
increased margins on our new facilities. The largest negative swing in the year was 
the increase in our net pension charge from £1.2m in 2008/09 to £5.4m in 2009/10 
principally as a result of lower notional returns on the pension fund assets based 
on their market value at 31 March 2009, which was significantly lower than at the 
comparable date in the prior year. Amortisation of fees on our new banking facilities 
also increased our net financing costs.
The combination of higher margins and fees on our new banking facilities, together 
with the increase in our non-cash pension charge, outweighed the benefit of lower 
underlying interest rates.
£m
2009/10
£m
2008/09
Cash interest expense (net) ( 11 .6) ( 14.5)
Arrangement fees amortisation (1.4) (0.8)
Pension financing item (net) (5.4) (1 .2)
Other (1.5) (1 .8)
(19.9) ( 18.3)
Financing costs, for the purpose of assessment of compliance with our banking 
covenants, are calculated on the basis of cash interest and exclude the non-cash items 
which made up approximately 40 per cent of our total net financing costs in 2009/10.
The average borrowing rate for the year on our core debt was 2.8 per cent. On the 
assumption that base rates remain at current levels in our new financial year we 
would expect this rate to increase to approximately 3.6 per cent as a consequence 
of the full year effect of our new banking facilities. We expect, however, that our 
non-cash pension charge will reduce in the same period as a result of a combination 
of the substantial increase in the market value of our pension fund assets and a 
reduction in corporate bond yields. The latter reduces the notional cost of servicing 
pension fund liabilities, although under IAS 19 it also increases the size of the liability.
Wincanton operates comfortably within the three  
 financial ratio covenants agreed with the Group’ s bankers.
PRE-TAX PROFIT
Underlying pre-tax profit of £34.7m represents a 16 per cent reduction on the 
£41.3m reported in the financial year to 31 March 2009.
T AXATION
The Group’s underlying rate of tax remains at 29.4 per cent (2009: 30.9 per cent), 
giving a charge of £10.0m. The rate largely reflects the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax of 28 per cent.
The overall rate of tax of 1 7 .2 per cent (2009: 30.0 per cent) reflects the non-recognition 
of the tax effect of the exceptional restructuring charge in Germany, offset by 
release of a provision following agreement of past tax issues.
The current year cash tax rate has reduced to 10.3 per cent (2009: 31.5 per cent),  
mainly as a result of the deductibility of the additional pension payments in the UK  
of approximately £ 12m.
The Group’s activities across the UK and Europe are subject to effective tax rates 
varying from 12.5 per cent to 38 per cent, but are most affected by the UK rate  
of 28 per cent. The Group’s overall rate of tax is expected to remain at around the 
current level in future years, and will reduce as unrecognised tax losses, of which 
a significant element relate to our German operations, are progressively utilised.
EXCEPTIONALS
We reported exceptional restructuring and other costs of £3.8m at the half year 
to 30 September 2009, consisting of the final integration costs of £0.7m in respect 
of a company acquired in November 2008, and the £3.1m incurred in respect of the 
costs of closure of our shared user home delivery network. 
Two further reorganisation and restructuring projects were implemented in the 
second half. A reorganisation of the senior management teams in our Retail and 
Manufacturing business units in the UK & Ireland gave rise to a charge of £1.8m. 
We also announced at the half year, and have now successfully executed, a major 
restructuring of our German road activities. A £14.9m charge was incurred in the 
second half in relation to this major programme.
The total exceptional charge in the year amounted to £20.5m. We anticipate a net 
exceptional profit in the new financial year on the basis of two asset disposals 
currently being considered.
We currently expect no further net charges in respect of either recession-led 
restructuring in the UK & Ireland or further strategic re-organisation programmes  
in Mainland Europe.
MAINLAND EUROPE REVENUE
 Germany
 Western Europe
 Central & Eastern Europe
23%
9%
68%
GERMANY REVENUE
 Road
 Intermodal
 Contract logistics
41%
23%
36% Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   19
MINORITY INTEREST, ASSOCIATES, EARNINGS AND DIv IDEND
The Group has a small number of activities in its Mainland European operations with 
a third party minority shareholding, principally Rhinecontainer BV in which there is  
a 25.8 per cent minority stake. The profits attributable to these minorities increased 
slightly in the year, from £0.5m to £0.7m.
The Group holds a 20 per cent interest in a UK chilled consolidation business 
following the merger in March 2009 of its chilled consolidation activities with those 
of a competitor. We have representation on the Board, agreed dividend distribution 
rights and pre-emption rights in respect of any sale of the business. In these 
circumstances we believe it to be appropriate to report our share of the profit from 
this venture as part of our underlying operating profit, and therefore include it 
within the results reported above for our UK & Ireland operations.
Underlying earnings per share for the year were 15.4 per cent lower, at 20.9p per 
share, compared to last year’s 24.7p per share.
It is proposed to maintain the full-year dividend at 14.91p. Given the 4.83p per share 
distributed at the half year, the final dividend would be 10.08p on this basis. 
Full-year dividend maintained at 1 4.91 p.
The dividend cover at this proposed level of full year dividend would reduce slightly 
from last year’s 1.66 times to 1.40 times. Given the profit and cash flow resilience of 
the Group through the recession, the cash-generative nature of the Group’s 
business model and its recovery and growth prospects, the Board nonetheless feels 
that it is appropriate to maintain the full-year dividend.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Capital expenditure in the year totalled £32.8m, equivalent to approximately  
85 per cent of depreciation. This marks a return to more normal levels of 
expenditure following a number of years of higher investment, primarily in  
our new sectors and services.
£3.4m and £ 11.4m of this year’s spend related to expansion and replacement capital, 
respectively, in our mainstream UK & Ireland activities. Major projects included crane 
replacement in the automated warehouse run for GSK and new tankers for the Total 
lubricants operation. Some £8.8m was invested in further expansion of our new 
sectors and services, particularly in respect of significant new capacity for our 
records management activities and in systems for the home delivery contract for 
M&S. Expansion and replacement capital in our Mainland European activities 
accounted for £5.7m and £3.5m respectively. The principal investment projects in 
Mainland Europe were specialist warehouse fit-outs for two contract gains in France, 
with Millipore and Total.
Our investment programme in our new sectors and services is now substantially 
complete, with further spend in our new financial year only in relation to the 
capacity expansion in our foodservice and records management businesses.  
We are, however, over the next two years, investing in a major programme  
to renew and enhance our operational and back office support systems.  
This is likely to result in capital expenditure at, or a little above, depreciation.
Thereafter, we expect to return to a more strongly cash-generative profile, 
with capital expenditure well within deprecation.
LEASING
Operating leases represent a key element in the funding of the Group’s growth,  
and new vehicle leasing commitments of £20.4m were entered into in the year. 
The principal new commitments entered into included new vehicles for Lafarge 
and M&S and replacements for our Total fuels and Musgrave operations. 
For the purposes of investment appraisal a memorandum value is generally 
attributed to leased assets.
More than half of these commitments are underwritten by the new contracts also 
entered into with customers, generally on a back-to-back basis.
Our banking agreements recognise that a substantial element of our leasing 
commitments are legally underwritten by our customers and, on this basis, allow us 
to deduct such leasing commitments from the calculation of fixed charge cover for 
covenant purposes. 
NET DEBT
Year-end net debt, at £151.9m, was £24.5m lower than the £176.4m reported  
at 31 March 2009. The reduction reflects a continuing focus on cash flow and 
balance sheet management.
FINANCING AND COv ENANTS
The Group concluded an agreement with its relationship banks in November  
2009 to expand and extend its borrowing facilities for a further three-year period 
until November 2012. A decision was taken at the same time to draw down a further 
tranche of our US private placement programme, with a seven-year maturity.  
£270m has been committed to the Group under the banking facilities, and $35m, 
subsequently swapped back into sterling, under the private placement programme.
Taking into account the existing balance of the drawn placement of $150m plus 
some small bilateral lines, the committed funding available to the Group totals 
approximately £405m. In addition the Group has available up to a further £47m 
of uncommitted money market and overdraft facilities.
Wincanton takes a prudent view of what constitutes an appropriate level of 
headroom in terms of committed facilities and no reliance is placed on uncommitted 
lines to fund the Group’s peak working capital requirements. £ 176m of our 
committed facilities were undrawn at 31 March 2010.
As previously noted, extremely difficult conditions in credit markets led to higher 
arrangement fees and margins under our new facilities.
The Group maintains a variety of swap and cap instruments to give an appropriate 
level of protection of its interest rate position. During the year to 31 March 2010 it 
had £15m of such arrangements in place, subsequently increased in April 2010 to 
cover some £70m of its borrowings for up to five years. 
Wincanton operates comfortably within the three financial ratio covenants agreed 
with the Group’s bankers. These ratios, calculated as defined in the loan agreement, 
and the Group’s position at 31 March 2010 relative to these, are summarised in the 
table below:
Covenant At 31 March 2010
Adjusted net debt : EBITDA <3.0 : 1 2.3 : 1
Adjusted net interest : EBITDA >3.5 : 1 7 .3 : 1
Fixed charge cover > 1.4 : 1 1.7 : 1
The Group operates sterling and euro ‘pools’ such that whenever possible surplus 
cash is netted against overdrafts and drawn debt, subject to agreed minimum 
levels, to maximise the efficiency of short-term liquidity. No speculative trading is 
authorised and all financial trades are designed to meet the operational needs of 
the business.
