 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   5
t he strategic focus
dEliv ERing OUR g ROWt H pOt Enti Al
Wincanton has leading positions in growth 
markets and has invested significantly in new 
activities with tremendous potential.”
Graeme McFaull
Chief Executive
The Wincanton business has changed very substantially in the last three to five 
years, and even more so since our demerger nearly 10 years ago. Prior to the 
recession, as a result of these changes, the Group was delivering double-digit 
percentage increases in earnings and a dividend stream that had grown by 
approximately 8 per cent per annum on average. Through the recession we  
have proved our resilience, continued to invest for the future and maintained  
our dividend payment to shareholders. We now have a portfolio of activities  
which will again deliver strong growth for Wincanton in the coming years.
UK & IRELANd : 
A strong base and transformational opportunity
Wincanton is one of the UK & Ireland’s leading providers of supply chain services. 
Operating profit of £48.4m on revenue of £1.3bn, although down by a little under  
8 per cent, again confirms the strength and quality of our UK & Ireland operations. 
There was some pricing pressure in our existing activities, albeit mitigated by 
continuing new business momentum, but much of the year-on-year movement is 
attributable to either the effect of investment in new capacity or the impact of 
recession on activity levels in some of our new sectors and services.
The key drivers of our growth in the UK & Ireland over time, which again provided a 
strong and stable base for the business in the year to 31 March 2010, have been:
•	l ong-standing partnership with major customers; the average length of 
contractual relationship with our top 20 customers is approximately 12 years;
•	A track record of delivering operational excellence, innovation and value; 2009/10 
was another excellent year of performance against contract requirements, with 
average warehouse productivity improving some 7 per cent year-on-year;
•	The ability to anticipate changing trends, developing new supply chain and 
business processing outsourcing solutions for our customers; approximately  
65 per cent of contract gains in the year again came from existing customers;
•	Industry-leading change management, project management and systems 
integration skills, which give customers the confidence to entrust us with the 
implementation of complex outsourcing processes;
•	A cash-generative business model which funds growth through leases, with 
volume risk and cost fluctuations substantially underwritten by customers; and
•	The determination to keep enhancing our portfolio of activities, successfully 
targeting and delivering growth opportunities in new sectors and services.
We expect all of these factors to continue to underpin and drive our growth  
in the future.
We now have a portfolio of activities which will again  
 deliver strong growth for Wincanton in the coming years.
>  Continuing opportunity in the UK & Ireland
>  Attractive growth in new sectors and services
>  Rec overy and growth in Mainland E urope 6   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
t he strategic focus
dEliv ERing OUR g ROWt H pOt Enti Al
Building on the strong base of our mainstream activities
Our mainstream activities in the UK & Ireland consist of supply chain services for 
large retailers, manufacturers and industrial companies principally related to fleet 
management, transport and warehousing activities. Over time, new services have 
been added as our customers’ requirements have continued to evolve, taking us 
into areas such as call centres, procurement, training and facilities management.
There continues to be great opportunity for Wincanton to develop profitably from 
this strong base, as further evidenced by contract wins and renewals in the year to 
31 March 2010: 
•	Our leadership in the retail sector saw M&S award one of the largest contracts in 
the UK this year to Wincanton. Best Buy also placed its confidence in Wincanton to 
support the delivery of its UK launch. Other contract wins and renewals in the year 
include Superquinn (a leading Irish food retailer) and primary transport for ASDA  
in North East England. Wincanton already operates for 9 out of the top 10 UK 
retailers, but only 12 out of the top 50. There is substantial scope for further market 
share gains in the retail sector, with a very limited number of competitors able to 
match Wincanton’s track record in both complex solution design and 
implementation and the operational excellence which assures consistently high 
levels of service post-implementation.
•	In vehicle and fleet management we are working with our customers to combine 
the benefits of the traditional shared user and dedicated models to deliver 
collaborative, sustainable transport solutions. Wincanton has visibility and 
management control over a combined vehicle fleet in excess of 8,000 vehicles; 
giving the market-leading scale necessary to provide the service quality and 
reliability which are fundamental to customers. Collaborative transport models 
have been successfully trialled in the year for both leading retailers and 
manufacturers, including shared resource for High Street retailers and load 
consolidation amongst manufacturers in different industries. Customer wins and 
renewals in the year in vehicle and fleet management included WH Smith, GSK, 
Britvic, Chevron and Air Products. 
There continues to be great opportunity for Wincanton  
 to develop profitably from this strong base.
•	As our relationships with customers broaden and develop we will seek to continue 
to expand our service offering, potentially taking us further into other areas  
of business process outsourcing. We were already active in 2009/10 with 
customers including J Sainsbury, Argos, Homebase and Chevron in delivering 
services such as facilities management, cleaning, training, procurement and call 
centres and believe there will be profitable opportunity to consolidate and further 
develop our current services in such fields. 
•	Other sector opportunities will also develop. Our Pullman Fleet Services business, 
for example, one of the UK’s leading independent vehicle maintenance and fleet 
management operations, is already actively exploring opportunities in the 
public sector. 
•	A joint venture has recently been established with Serco plc, targeting a number 
of public sector opportunities currently in the market. We believe there to be very 
attractive potential for Wincanton in the public sector and indeed in other industry 
verticals in which we have not historically had a major presence.
The further development and enhancement of our activities in the UK & Ireland 
remains an area of significant growth potential for Wincanton.
t ransformational potential of new sectors and services
Where new service or sector opportunities are considered to have the potential to 
become significant new income streams in their own right, they become the focus 
of particular strategic challenge and operational focus.
Development in these new areas is based on the leveraging of our existing core 
skills, often with our existing customer base. The businesses are overseen within  
our Retail and Manufacturing business units in the UK, although generally with  
their own dedicated Managing Director, and are set separate targets for strategic 
purposes given their higher margin and growth profile. 
Each of the activities has been set a target of delivering £10m of annual profit 
contribution within five years. Together in 2009/10, before central overhead 
allocation, they reported a profit contribution of £10.3m on revenue of £290.8m, 
with the result in the year impacted by losses in our shared user home delivery 
network prior to its closure and the costs of investment in increased capacity in 
records management, recycling and foodservice.
Against the background of our reported operating profit for the UK & Ireland of 
£48.4m in 2009/10, even if not all of the seven current activities meet their strategic 
target in full, these businesses clearly have the potential to transform the scale and 
profitability of the Group.
No significant further investment is currently either planned, or anticipated to be 
required, to deliver against the strategic targets set for these areas. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   7
The activities currently included within this strategic grouping, and some of the 
further significant developments in the year in each, are summarised below:
Foodservice •	 : Investment in new facilities in the North West and the South East, 
development of the next generation of IT support systems and a transport 
solution based on Wincanton-designed specialist vehicles, have created an 
innovative new offering that brings a step change in the cost, efficiency and 
sustainability of supply chain services for major hotel, pub and restaurant  
groups. A substantial five-year contract award from one of the UK’s fastest-growing 
restaurant groups provides the anchor customer for our new facility in the South 
East and the development pipeline over the next 18 months points to significant 
growth opportunity.
Records •	 management: We have invested in new capacity in l ondon, Dublin, 
Scotland and the South West for documents, boxes and media tapes and expect 
to have full national coverage within the next 18-24 months. There are a limited 
number of competitors of national scale in the sector, and our facilities are at  
the forefront of security and fire suppression legislation. Our new capacity is  
being filled ahead of expectations and we are well-placed to continue to benefit  
from the overall growth expected in the industry. Wins and renewals in the  
year included Allied Irish Bank, Aviva, City of l ondon Police, Friends Provident, 
Knight Frank and State Street. In total, just under 40 new contracts were signed in 
2009/10, and there is particular interest going forward in our recently expanded 
media tapes facilities.
Containers: •	 By extending our services for customers back up the supply chain, 
from distribution centre to port, we are generating efficiency, visibility and service 
level improvements in the inbound supply chain of major manufacturers and 
retailers. Over 370,000 containers are moved every year, by road and by rail, 
through our national network of port and inland container terminals. New contract 
gains in the year included wins with existing customers such as Argos, Panasonic 
and Screwfix, confirming the considerable potential for further market share gains. 
These market share gains, particularly through the cross-selling of services into 
existing customers, combined with volume uplift through economic recovery in 
due course, will be the key drivers of growth in this activity.
Construction: •	 Our business in the construction sector focuses on providing  
high quality and reliable service, on a national basis, to large building product 
manufacturers, housebuilding and infrastructure companies and builders’ 
merchants. Supply chain services for such customers have, traditionally, been 
either in-house or provided by a fragmented supplier base of small regional 
operators. Our national network of sites and vehicles offers a collaborative, 
sustainable and cost-effective alternative not previously available to companies 
in the sector. Contract wins and renewals were recorded in the year with Ibstock, 
Cemex and Speedy Hire, adding to our existing activities with groups such as 
l afarge, Saint Gobain and Wavin. This is another activity in which economic 
recovery should add further momentum to market share gains.
Home •	 delivery: Home delivery represents the UK’s fastest-growing retail 
distribution channel. Wincanton’s services to customers in this sector include call 
centre operations, automated picking in e-fulfilment centres, two-man home 
delivery and installation and returns management. Already operating for 
customers such as Comet and Homebase, the major contract award in the year 
to manage M&S’s home delivery operations confirms the strength of Wincanton’s 
service offering in the marketplace. Now successfully implemented, including the 
integration of a new, leading-edge IT system, the contract is delivering significant 
cost and service level benefits to M&S. 
defence: •	 Fundamental supply chain changes are under way in the defence  
sector, as Government agencies are actively considering greater outsourcing 
and changes in procurement processes require major manufacturers to provide 
equipment on the basis of ‘contracts for availability’. With an extensive track record 
of successful management of major procurement programmes, and a strong 
customer base amongst the leading sector manufacturers, Wincanton is extremely 
well-placed to benefit from these changes. Major wins and renewals in the year 
included contracts with BAE Systems, AgustaWestland and the Aircraft Carrier 
Alliance adding to existing operations for other groups such as Thales, General 
Dynamics, Rolls-Royce and vT Group. A further sign of progress in this area is the 
Framework Procurement Agreement now in place with BAE Systems making us a 
preferred logistics provider. 
Recycling: •	 l egislation increasingly places the responsibility for recycling waste 
onto retailers and manufacturers. Our customers are facing major pressures  
to manage waste flows, whether paper and packaging from grocery retailers,  
white and brown goods from electrical retailers, or food waste from hotel and 
restaurant customers. By combining collection, sortation and the recycling of 
waste materials, particularly electronic and electrical equipment through our own 
processing sites, Wincanton is helping customers to address this significant new 
challenge to their existing supply chains.
These businesses clearly have the potential to  
 transform the scale and profitability of the Group.
Construction: Our national network of shared  
user sites and vehicles offers a collaborative,  
sustainable and cost-effective alternative
Records management: Our new capacity 
is being filled ahead of expectations 8   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
t he strategic focus
dEliv ERing OUR g ROWt H pOtE nti Al
MAINLANd EUROPE:
Recovery and growth
Mainland Europe reported operating profit of £6.2m on revenue of £856.5m  
in the financial year to 31 March 2010. 
Our Mainland European strategy remains focused on:
•	Offering national, cross-border and Pan-European services to our major customers. 
The growing list of customers for which we operate on a multi-country basis 
includes Goodyear, Dow, Honeywell, GSK, Danone, Panasonic, InBev, velux and 
Nutreco. Multi-country relationships such as these not only offer opportunities for 
further growth but also, to differing degrees, help to secure important contracts in 
key national markets, not least in the UK & Ireland.
•	A common link between these customers, in addition to domestic warehousing 
and transport operations as further discussed below, is our growing expertise in 
international transport and freight management, whether by road, rail, river or sea. 
–  we are a market leader in the management of container traffic on the Rhine,  
with river-based activities also in France and Poland. 
–  we move goods by rail across Europe working either with partners, or, in 
Germany, through our in-house rail operations.
– we move goods by road on a Pan-European basis using a combination of our 
own managed activities in certain countries and partners in other countries in 
which we do not have a domestic presence. 
– we offer customs clearance and freight forwarding services at a number of 
locations across Europe including l e Havre, Strasbourg, Rotterdam, Basle, 
Hamburg and Gdansk. 
– our Dutch business has developed a particular expertise in freight management 
and forwarding into the former Soviet republics in Central Asia with extensive 
operations for the major structural steel companies such as Corus, Thyssen 
Krupp and Arcelor Mittal supporting the huge offshore oilfield investment 
programme in Kazakhstan. 
•	In addition to investing in this cross-border freight management expertise,  
we are continuing to develop critical mass in major economies such as Germany, 
France and Poland. In each of these countries we have extensive domestic 
operations and are progressively building a track record, customer base and 
market reputation which will enable us to win and implement the complex 
warehousing and supply chain contracts that have for many years been at the 
profitable core of our UK & Ireland operations.
Wins, renewals and successful contract implementations in the period included 
those for customers such as Wincor Nixdorf, Honeywell and John Deere in Germany, 
Total, Daikin, Goodyear and Eprus in France, and Danone, Electrolux, Panasonic, Kraft 
Foods and AMICA in Poland. We also have domestic operations in Holland, Hungary, 
the Czech Republic and Slovakia, either operating and winning new business 
independently, or helping to service Group customers on a regional basis. Wins and 
renewals in the period included Provimi in Holland, and Henkel and BAT in Hungary.
A major objective for us in the year was the restructuring of the loss-making activities 
within our German road transport business, involving a reduction in headcount of 
some 400 employees, the closure of five sites and the substantial scaling back of 
activities at a further four locations. This major programme of operational, customer 
and employee change was successfully delivered without disruption to our business 
or deterioration in service quality. We now have a more profitable and significantly 
stronger business base in Germany. 
With the restructuring of our German road activities now implemented, and with the 
negative effects of our surplus space issues in France progressively reducing, we are 
in a position to focus on growth opportunities for the future without diverting 
management and financial resource to deal with the legacy issues of the past.
We will generate sustainable profit and cash flow  
 performance from Mainland Europe.
Building a brand with high-quality credentials in a demanding service industry  
has not proved to be easy for us in Mainland Europe. The volume impact of the 
recession has pushed us backwards rather than forwards in our efforts to deliver 
growth from a more stable, efficient operational base. We continue to believe, 
nonetheless, that this growth can and will be delivered. 
We expect to make progress again in 2010/1 1 towards our margin targets for 
Mainland Europe. Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   9
dRiving FOR g ROWt H in OUR t HREE kEy AREAs...
> Operational excellence
> leading -edge technology
> project and change management
> l everaging customers’ assets
> World-class service
> Customer partnerships
> sector expertise and knowledge
> productivity and efficiency
Uk & ireland new sectors and services mainland Europe
By delivering our core  
strengths across the business
