 Annual Report 2010  Wincanton plc   3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2009/10: ANOTHER RESILIENT PERFORMANCE
Wincanton has a blue chip customer base, leading market positions and a 
cash-generative business model. Its financial performance through the recession 
has proved the resilience of its operations, the breadth and diversity of its activities 
and the strength of its contract portfolio. It is this profit and cash flow resilience, 
together with the growth potential of the Group’s businesses as we look to the 
future, that has given the Board the confidence to maintain the full-year dividend  
at 14.91p.
Underlying operating profit of £54.6m, although an 8.4 per cent reduction on last 
year, is a creditable performance given the severity of the economic recession that 
we have experienced. Underlying earnings before interest, tax and depreciation 
experienced a smaller, 3.8 per cent decline, to £93.2m although both our profit-to-
cash flow conversion rates and returns on capital employed remained very high,  
at 153 per cent and 75.5 per cent respectively.
Wincanton invests in the skills of its people, in operational excellence and in  
the highest standards of customer service. Sustaining focus on these key areas 
creates, over time, a highly-skilled and motivated workforce, an industry-leading 
reputation for service quality and long-standing partnerships with our customers. 
My thanks, and those of the Directors, go to all the Group’s employees, who have 
again demonstrated the commitment, expertise and enthusiasm which remain 
fundamental to the continuing success of Wincanton.
We are targeting an improvement in the Group’s 
underlying performance next year and a return 
to growth.
STRATEGY: THREE PLATFORMS FOR GROWTH
We have three areas of strategic focus. 
Our mainstream supply chain services activities in the UK remain strong and 
continue to demonstrate growth potential. We would expect these activities to 
grow faster than underlying GDP . 
Our new sectors and services, of which there are currently seven, have all been  
set stretching targets of delivering £10m of annual profit contribution within the  
next five years. These new sectors and services have the potential to transform  
the scale and profitability of our operations in the UK & Ireland. 
Our operations in Mainland Europe continue to offer geographic diversification  
for the Group and the opportunity to leverage customer relationships and sector 
expertise across borders. The restructuring of our German road network is nearing 
completion and we now expect to have a stronger and more stable platform for 
growth, enabling us to focus both on those countries in which we have critical  
mass and the continuing expansion of our Pan-European freight management  
and forwarding operations.
We have invested heavily in recent years in restructuring our business, increasing 
capacity in some of our newer activities and expanding the range of our operations 
through infill acquisitions. Our year-end net debt of £1 5 1.9m represents our substantive 
investment in these areas. We are now highly focused on ensuring that this 
investment delivers the profit and cash flow returns that will see Wincanton continue 
to build on its strong pre-recession track record of earnings and dividend growth.
OUTLOOK: RECOv ERY ANd GROWTH 
As we start the new financial year, our development pipeline is encouraging and 
customer volumes give grounds for cautious optimism. We remain cautious about 
the economic outlook but are nonetheless targeting an improvement in underlying 
performance next year and a return to growth. Through next year and into the 
medium term, we expect Wincanton’s portfolio of activities in the UK & Ireland to 
benefit strongly from economic recovery and from the substantial investments 
made in recent years in new capacity and in new sectors and services. We also 
anticipate a steady improvement in profitability in Mainland Europe.
The Board believes that the underlying strength of Wincanton has been 
demonstrated through the recession. It gives us a platform on which we can  
build growth.
David Edmonds
Chairman
CHAiRmAn’s int ROdUC ti On
Wincanton has performed well through the 
recession and is now well-placed for recovery 
and growth in the wider economy.”
David Edmonds
Chairman 4   Wincanton plc  Annual Report 2010
Overview
gROWt H dRivERs
strong positions in 
growth markets
innovation and 
sector expertise
l everaging 
our core skills
l ong-term 
partnerships
8,000 vehicles
health and safety 
excellence
tailored solutions
operational excellence
scale and diversity
warehouse and 
transport  
management
multimodal capabilities
dedicated teams
28,000 
employees
continuous 
improvement 
culture
change management
end to end supply 
chain solutions
proven track record
inventory management
sharing assets
strong industrial relations
vehicle design
We are successfully leveraging our skill base across 
customers, sectors and geographies, building 
on the strength of our core business and on our 
long-term partnerships.
