 Our performance over the year confirms our broadening
customer appeal, successfully delivered in a wide range of 
stores from 11,000 to 40,000+ square feet. We have identified
significant potential to attract new customers and will focus 
on space growth in order to take us from a national to a
nationwide company.
Strategy update
Our three year strategy, as laid out in our 2007 Annual report, is to position the
business as the UK’s ‘food specialist for everyone’. This builds on our historic
strengths of value and fresh food quality, now applied to a national, bigger business
following the Safeway acquisition in 2004. As a food specialist, we are clearly
differentiated from our larger competitors, all of whom are seeking to expand their
non-food credentials. We also emphasise our deep understanding of food: through
being closer to source than other retailers, through our unique manufacturing and
packing facilities, through the amount of food preparation undertaken in our stores
and through the employment of more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers
than our competitors. We stress that our offer is for everyone, because our great
food is also always great value.
Our strategy builds on our strengths, and is in tune with our customers’ need for
excellent value and their increasing focus on the health, provenance, quality and
freshness of the food they buy. In order to deliver our strategy, we have previously
outlined the building blocks that need to be put in place, and our plans to do this 
by 2010. These include freshening up our stores and improving and developing the
infrastructure of the business in the key areas of manufacturing, distribution and
operating systems. The operating review of the year, set out on pages 6 to 8,
highlights our progress towards these goals.
Store estate development
From our position as the fourth largest grocery retailer in the UK, we see significant
opportunities to expand our store estate. As the food specialist for everyone, it is our
conviction that we offer a real difference in grocery retailing that is highly attractive
to a broad range of customers. However, there are many parts of the country where
we remain under-represented. We estimate there to be over eight million households
in the UK which are not located within a 15 minute drive of a current Morrisons
store. This represents a higher target customer base than any of our three larger
competitors. Our offer works well in a wide range of store sizes, from 11,000 to over
40,000 square feet, giving us flexibility in site selection. A key part of our strategy,
therefore, has been to grow the number of Morrisons stores, and in 2007 we
published a target of adding 1.0m square feet of new space by January 2010. Our
acquisition of Co-operative/Somerfield stores, completing in the coming year, will
see that target exceeded by 0.5m square feet, and we are confident that we will open
a further 0.5m square feet of retail space in the year to January 2011.
We believe that delivery of our strategy of expansion and further optimisation of the
operation of the business has resulted in strongly improved profit margins for our
shareholders, whilst also positioning the Group for long term growth.
Chief Executive’s business review
Marc Bolland
www.morrisons.co.uk/annualreport09
5
Our focus on fresh food and
value appeals to shoppers
everywhere and provides 
a strong platform to take
Morrisons from national 
to nationwide.
“
”
Performance review Strategic review Governance
Group
financial statements
Company 
financial statements Investor information Solid shareholder investment and returns
The Group is securely financed and has a strong balance sheet. We are confident 
that our planned investment requirements can be met from existing facilities. We
will continue to pursue a prudent approach to financial management which is based
on a number of principles:
• we wish to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet;
• operational control of our retail stores is fundamental to us;
• we are a prudent organisation and we structure our finances accordingly; and
• our defined benefit pension schemes’ assets and liabilities are effectively part 
of our balance sheet, and should be managed as such.
The Board concluded in March 2008 that surplus capital of £1bn should be returned
to shareholders during 2008 and 2009, with £500m of that to be delivered in the
first 12 months of the programme. Whilst £146m was returned in 2008 through
share buybacks, the Board also identified new investment opportunities for the
Group, over and above our original plans. These were the acquisition of stores 
from the Co-operative Group, the purchase of the freehold interest in our planned
distribution centre at Sittingbourne and the acquisition of the freehold interest 
of four existing stores which, combined, account for unplanned investments of
£460m. The Board believes these growth opportunities represent a more attractive
deployment of capital than the planned share buyback. The Board also believes that
further investment opportunities may arise in the medium term and has therefore
decided that the capital originally earmarked for share buybacks in the 2009/10
financial year should be retained within the business to give Morrisons maximum
financial flexibility.
We have targeted progressive dividend growth in 2008 and 2009, over and above
earnings growth, in order to bring dividend cover to a level in line with the average 
for our sector, which is around 2.5 times, by January 2010. Funding for this enhanced
return to shareholders will come from operating cash flow and committed facilities
available to the Group.
Operating review of the year
2008/09 was another good year for Morrisons – we made sure that we offered 
our customers great value every day, in a rapidly deteriorating economy, whilst 
still investing for the long term future of the business.
New retail space
We opened nine new stores in the year, at Giffnock, Gorleston, Whitefield,
Kidderminster, Granton, Northallerton, Blandford Forum, Clifton (Nottingham) and
Holyhead. Two of these (Giffnock and Kidderminster) were replacements of existing
stores and two (Blandford and Northallerton) were former Safeways, which had been
closed since the acquisition due to their small size. Our decision to reopen them
reflects our growing confidence in the operation of, and return from, smaller stores,
and we have been pleased with their performance. A further two of the stores
(Gorleston and Clifton) were previous Co-op/Somerfield stores that we acquired 
and converted to Morrisons. In both cases we saw very significant uplifts in sales
compared to those achieved under their former ownerships, and as a result we were
pleased, later in the year, to agree the acquisition of a further tranche of stores from
the Co-op/Somerfield that we will open in 2009/10.
Chief Executive’s business review continued
6 Morrisons  Annual report and financial statements 2009
Like-for-like sales
(ex-fuel)
+7.9
%
5.2
4.6
7.9
2007 2008 2009
Like-for-like sales is the measure 
of growth in existing stores.
Source: internal
Key Performance Indicators
(%) We continued our programme of store extensions, with 90,000 square feet added 
in the year, and ended the year with 382 stores and a total of 11.1m square feet of
retail space, growth of 2.7% on the start of the year.
Turnover growth
Turnover grew by £1.5bn to £14.5bn, a 12% increase. Part of this increase (c.3%)
was due to the very high prices of fuel seen in our forecourts business in the year
caused by a worldwide spike in oil prices, and this will unwind again in the coming
year as pump prices have come back down. We were pleased with our stores sales
growth, which was industry leading and broad based. Like-for-like sales, the measure
of growth in existing stores, increased by 7.9% with customer numbers up 4.2% 
and average basket spend up 3.6%.
Market share growth
Based on TNS market research data, we believe our grocery market share grew from
12.1% to 12.3% in the year.
2008/09 2007/08
Like-for-like stores Other Total Total
Sales of goods (£m) 11,877 317 12,194 11,238
Fuel (£m) 3,523 74 3,597 2,871
Total sales inc VAT (£m) 15,400 391 15,791 14,109
Turnover exc VAT (£m) 14,171 357 14,528 12,969
Sales per square foot (£) 21.65 13.46 21.41 20.18
Customer numbers (m) 500 11 511 482
Customer spend (£) 23.92 21.14 23.86 23.10
Geographically, we grew in all regions, with the South particularly strong as the
Morrisons brand continued to become better known. Across our store estate, we
grew in all sizes of stores, with smaller stores below 25,000 square feet leading the
way. Our market research shows that we won customers from all major competitors
in the year. In-store, our Market Street ranges did well, responding to our strong
emphasis on fresh food preparation. Our own-label ranges all showed growth, albeit
the strong trends of the previous two years towards premium products slowed, with
Eat Smart up 13%, the Best up 5% and Organics up 10%. By contrast, the Value
range – relaunched in the year – saw 50% growth.
Industry leading offers
The growth of the Value range reflected the very difficult economic environment
experienced by consumers throughout the year. Commodity price inflation, which
began in 2007 but fed through strongly into products during 2008, meant that
customers were paying more for their weekly shopping basket for the first time in
some years. At the same time, disposable incomes were decreasing due to the
impact of high energy prices, reduced availability of mortgage credit, a rising tax
burden and increasing unemployment. We were quick to respond to the challenges
being faced by our customers. Whilst we maintained our focus on the quality,
healthiness and provenance of our food, we also delivered a year of innovative value
offers to our customers. We launched over 21,000 price cuts throughout the year,
and designed our promotions to help customers save money while eating well. Our
£4 meal deals proved very popular, and we switched more of our promotions into
‘half price’ rather than ‘buy one, get one free’ in response to customers’ need to
spend less each week. We helped customers to treat themselves too, with great
value deals such as 2 for 1 offers on party foods, the Mamma Mia DVD for £7 and 
a range of games for Nintendo Wii at £10. In the run-up to Christmas, we rewarded
our most loyal customers with a £20 shopping voucher through the Collector 
Card scheme.
www.morrisons.co.uk/annualreport09
7
UK Grocery market share
12.3
%
11.9
12.1
12.3
2007 2008 2009
We have increased our 52 week UK
grocery market share with good
performance across the whole country
and particularly strong growth in 
the South.
Source: TNS
Key Performance Indicators
(%)
Performance review Strategic review Governance
Group
financial statements
Company 
financial statements Investor information In addition to value messages, we continued to profile our unique food production
capabilities, in our factories and in Market Street, and our understanding of food
provenance. Our broad appeal and community involvement was well illustrated by
our new schools initiative, ‘Let’s Grow’, which is designed to help schools teach
children how to grow food. Over 18,000 schools registered for the scheme, well
beyond our expectations, and in February 2009 we began to dispatch free planting
and gardening equipment including over 30,000 tools, 29,000 pairs of gardening
gloves, 13,000 bags of compost and over 10,000 growing kits.
Operating results
Our forecourts business grew strongly in the year. As fuel prices moved above £1 per
litre, consumers became highly price conscious and shopped around for value. We
made sure that our pricing was always highly competitive, and indeed led the market
back down below the key £1 price point when oil prices again began to fall. Average
unleaded pump prices were 103.5p in the year, compared with 94.9p the previous
year. Litreage grew by 11%, in a declining market.
2009 2008 Change
Summary income statement £m £m %
Turnover 14,528 12,969 12
Gross profit 913 818 12
Other operating income 37 30 23
Administrative expenses (281) (268) (5)
Property transactions 2 32 (94)
Operating profit 671 612 10
Finance income and cost (16) – (100)
Taxation (195) (58) (236)
Profit for the period 460 554 (17)
Gross profit grew in line with the level of turnover growth. The gross profit margin 
of 6.3% was level with the previous year, although lower than it would have been
due to the dilutive effect of high fuel sales, which have a very low margin. The impact
of this, we estimate, was a 20bps reduction in margin. Offsetting this was the release 
of a provision first taken in 2005/06 relating to the rationalisation of our distribution
infrastructure. The original provision was £75m, and after taking all final costs
associated with this restructuring we were left with a balance to release of £8m,
which is included in gross profit. The details of this can be found on page 71 of 
the accounts. Adjusting for these two effects, our gross profit increased by 0.1%
despite the headwind effect of high energy costs in our stores and supply chain. 
We successfully mitigated these costs through continued delivery of our
Optimisation Plan.
The Group’s two biggest costs, after cost of goods sold, are store wages and
distribution costs. After a number of years of strong improvement in store labour
productivity, the year under review saw us investing in customer service to support
our sales growth. Despite this, labour costs as a proportion of sales improved by
0.5%. The cost to deliver each case through our distribution network continued 
to fall, despite higher fuel costs, with a further reduction of 2.5% year-on-year. 
We gained good benefits from new systems that improved the efficiency of our
delivery schedules.
Our administrative expenses were up by 5%, below the rate of the turnover increase,
reflecting tight control of our overheads. Marketing costs, which account for over
one-third of administrative expenses, increased in line with turnover, as we continued
to seek, with success, to articulate the Morrisons story to a wider audience.
Chief Executive’s business review continued
8 Morrisons  Annual report and financial statements 2009
Underlying earnings per share
16.7p
8.3
14.4
16.7
2007 2008 2009
Basic underlying earnings per share has
increased 16%.
Key Performance Indicators
(pence) Optimisation Plan progress
Our aim is to become the ‘Food Specialist for Everyone’, and that means:
Our Optimisation Plan, originally communicated in 2007, set out a number of
programmes designed to deliver by our financial year ending January 2010, and 
we remain well on track. Key elements of the Plan included:
• refreshed and rebranded stores;
• range extension and product innovation;
• investment in further manufacturing capacity;
• an increase in distribution capacity in the South;
• in-store efficiency initiatives;
• replacement of our systems; and
• Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives.
Progress in each of these areas is outlined below.
Refreshed and rebranded stores
Customers visiting Morrisons today experience a modern and unique food specialist,
following the successful completion of the programme to freshen-up our stores and
brand. The programme covered the exterior and interior signage of the stores, our
Market Street counters, our trucks and our filling stations. All work was completed,
on time, at an average cost per store of £0.5m – a very cost effective new design
scheme when compared to similar programmes elsewhere. Alongside the physical
work, all staff were fitted with uniforms carrying the new brand and over 3,000 own-
brand Morrison products received new packaging. 
Range extension and product innovation
Our product ranges, too, have been extensively reinvigorated. Range development
has been particularly strong in ‘Value’ lines but value and freshness are not
incompatible, as seen in the launch of our innovative ‘Fresh Ideas’ ready-to-cook
fresh meals, which offer a great value alternative to dining out.
Our control of the fresh food supply chain, through our bakeries, fruit and vegetable
packing facilities, meat and cheese processing plant and abattoirs gives us great
flexibility to respond to changing customer needs and priorities. The value conscious
behaviour that came to the fore in 2008 provided us with the opportunity to use this
flexibility to great effect. We led the industry with great value deals on fresh foods,
such as our £4 family meal deals which comprised eight fresh food items for 50
pence each. Such deals, when advertised, create great demand, and it was only our
close control of the supply chain that allowed us to cope with the volumes generated
Food specialist We really understand food:
• we know where it comes from
• we pack it and make it in our factories
• we make it in our stores
• we employ craft skills in every store
For everyone Great food which is also: 
• great value
• for every day, not just special days.
www.morrisons.co.uk/annualreport09
9
Dividend cover
2.9times
2.1
3.0
2.9
2007
0.5
2006 2008 2009
We have targeted progressive dividend
growth in 2008 and 2009, over and
above earnings growth, in order to
bring dividend cover in line with the
average for our sector, which is around
2.5 times, by January 2010.
(times)
Performance review Strategic review Governance
Group
financial statements
Company 
financial statements Investor information
Key Performance Indicators without disappointing customers looking for a bargain. Similarly, our abattoir and
butchery operations are designed to use the whole animal, with minimal food waste.
We have long sold lower priced cuts of meat such as brisket and neck fillet, which
make delicious meals at bargain prices. These cuts are once again popular, and
Morrisons is best placed to provide such variety and value. Equally, by being close to
the source of supply, by being in the livestock markets every day and by only offering
fresh fish on our counters, our fresh meat and fish quality cannot be matched even 
by much more expensive competitors.
Our advertising campaigns built on the previous year’s success, with a continuation
of the ‘Fresh Choice for You’ message placing emphasis on freshness, in-store
production, in-season food and our food provenance knowledge. We continued 
to use down-to-earth, approachable personalities including Helen Baxendale and
Richard Hammond – the campaign produced the highest consumer recall in 2008
1
.
Our research has confirmed that the campaign has significantly increased consumer
awareness of Morrisons and what we stand for. To balance the ‘Fresh’ message, we
launched a high impact ‘Price Crunch’ campaign in April, which ran through the rest
of the year and was used to highlight our great value offers and everyday prices. 
This too, struck a chord with our customers.
Distribution network investment
We continued to invest in our infrastructure as part of our Optimisation Plan. The
new distribution centre at Sittingbourne, in Kent, is well under way. It will manage
the growing volumes of our business in London and the South East and will open by
the end of 2009. We took the opportunity to acquire the freehold of the site during
the year, at a cost of £80m, in order to ensure maximum flexibility for the future. 
We were pleased to open our new abattoir at Spalding during the summer of 2008,
and it is already producing at high volumes and very good levels of efficiency. This
extra capacity has been key to ensuring that we can offer fresh pork, beef and lamb
that is all UK sourced and all processed by us – something unique in British
supermarket retailing.
In-store efficiency initiatives
We continue to invest in ways to improve customer service whilst also becoming
more efficient in our stores. Following a successful trial, self-scan checkouts are now
rolling-out to over half our stores. Queue management software, which predicts very
accurately the number of tills required to be open to serve the customers in store, 
is also at an advanced stage of roll-out.
Replacement of our systems
The Group’s major programme of systems renewal continued to make good progress
during the year, with detailed planning completed and Wipro, one of the world’s
premier computer services companies, selected as our implementation partner. 
As previously announced, the implementation programme began in late 2008 with
the pilot phase of our new human resources and payroll system, which will go fully
live during 2009. The coming year will see the implementation of financial systems,
depot systems and the start of the roll-out of the new point of sale systems into
stores. In 2010 we will begin to replace systems in our manufacturing facilities,
throughout the supply chain and the product masterfile.
Chief Executive’s business review continued
10 Morrisons  Annual report and financial statements 2009
1 (source: Marketing Magazine – Adwatch)
We were proud to win all 
three major industry titles 
in the same year.
Retailer of the Y ear
2008 & 2009
Retail Week
We are the only retailer to have 
won this prestigious award for two
consecutive years, being commended
for the use of imaginative and
extensive marketing to highlight our
traditional strengths in fresh produce
and our competitive stance on price.
Supermarket 
of the Y ear 2008
Retail Industry Awards
The judges commented that we won
the award because we came back
stronger following a challenging
period; they also noted the efforts 
we had made in refreshing our 
product ranges. 
Grocer of the Y ear
2008
The Grocer Gold Awards
The Grocer judges praised Morrisons
for the success of its stores’ refresh
programme and our focus on the fresh
food offering of Market Street. Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives
Much of our investment, whilst improving the business, has also improved our
carbon emissions. In the past two years we have invested £66m in new, efficient
refrigeration capacity in our stores and £18m in new trucks and trailers. These
measures have improved our chill chain, and also significantly reduced our
emissions. A similar programme to replace all our petrol pumps with new, low
emission technology, is well advanced, with 220 out of 287 filling stations having
been re-pumped at the year end. As a result of these and other initiatives, our target
to reduce our carbon footprint by 36% from 2005 levels has been achieved one year
early. We are delighted to be the only grocery retailer to have been awarded the new
Carbon Trust Standard for carbon reduction.
Long term growth
The overall investment requirements for the Optimisation Plan, outlined last year,
are £450m over and above the normal run-rate of capital investment, and the
programme will run to January 2010. In 2008, £182m of this was invested, bringing
the cumulative total to £250m.
Alongside the Optimisation Plan, our new space programme laid out a target of
opening an additional 1.0m square feet of retail space in the three years to January
2010. We are well on course to achieve that through our normal pipeline of new
stores and store extensions, but over and above this target, the acquisition,
announced in November, of smaller Co-op and Somerfield stores, which will
complete in 2009, will add around a further 500,000 square feet to our estate 
to bring the total at 31 January 2010 to approximately 12m square feet.
www.morrisons.co.uk/annualreport09
11
17
25
36
2007 2008 2009
36
2010
target
We have met our target of 36%
reduction of CO
2 
emissions one 
year early from a base set in 2005.
* Source: externally validated using Defra’s
Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
Carbon footprint*
(% cumulative reduction)
Key Performance Indicators
Performance review Strategic review Governance
Group
financial statements
Company 
financial statements Investor information
