 In my first annual statement as Chairman, I am pleased that 
we are reporting another year of good progress for Morrisons.
These are challenging times for the UK economy, but whilst we
are not complacent, we are confident that Morrisons offer meets
and is in tune with the demands of our customers and the
economic background.
Results
Profit before tax was £655m compared with £612m last year. This included £2m of
property gains, compared with £32m last year. Underlying basic earnings per share
(EPS) increased by 16% to 16.7p, whilst statutory basic EPS decreased by 16% 
due to an abnormally low tax charge last year. The Board is recommending a final
dividend of 5.0p per share, to bring the total for the year to 5.8p – an increase of
21%. At this level, the dividend is covered 2.9 times, and we will continue our
progressive policy of increasing the dividend by underlying earnings and additionally
moving dividend cover towards the average for our sector, which is around 2.5 times,
by January 2010.
Cash generation was strong – with cash from operations of £964m, a year-on-year
increase of £208m, or 28%. The Group’s pace of investment picked up, with capital
expenditure in the year increasing to £678m following the opening of nine new
stores and the acquisition of the freehold of our new distribution centre at
Sittingbourne, in Kent. Additionally, we completed the planned second instalment
payment into our defined benefit pension schemes of £100m and bought back 58
million shares in the market for £146m, an average share price of 251p. Following
these investments, net debt increased from £543m to £642m. As previously
reported, new five year term debt facilities of £1.1bn were agreed in September
2007, and only £250m of this facility was drawn at the year end, leaving gearing 
at 14%.
Board changes
As previously announced, Roger Owen, the Group Property Director, retired at the
conclusion of the financial year after 34 years with the Group and 21 years’ service
on the Board. Roger played a major role in building the store estate which forms the
backbone of the business, and he goes with our thanks and best wishes for a long,
happy and well deserved retirement.
We are pleased to welcome Philip Cox to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, with
effect from 1 April 2009. Phil is Chief Executive of International Power plc, and a
previous CFO of Siebe plc. He will chair the Audit Committee after a suitable period
of induction, taking over from Paul Manduca who will continue in his role as Senior
Independent Director. The Board would like to record its thanks to Paul for his
assured steering of the Audit Committee over the past three and a half years.
Chairman’s statement
Sir Ian Gibson
www.morrisons.co.uk/annualreport09
3
This was another year of
good progress for Morrisons
as we continued to grow
sales, profits and dividends,
whilst also investing to
generate future growth.
”
“
Performance review Strategic review Governance
Group
financial statements
Company 
financial statements Investor information 4 Morrisons  Annual report and financial statements 2009
Industry recognition
Morrisons success in the past year has been recognised with numerous industry
awards, including Retailer of the Year from Retail Week, the Grocer of the Year 
from The Grocer and Supermarket of the Year at the Retail Industry Awards. This 
is welcome recognition of the terrific efforts of all our 124,000 employees, and 
on behalf of the Board I want to express our thanks for their dedication, hard work 
and professionalism. I am pleased that our growth in the year will provide a profit 
share pool for them of £34m, a 13% increase on the previous year.
Charitable donations
Our colleagues across the business are always enthusiastic supporters of our
charitable activities. Our stores become involved in many initiatives in support of
their local communities, such as Remembrance Day collections, and national events
like Children in Need where we passed a cheque for £250,000 to the BBC again 
this year. Our own nominated charity of the year was Protecting Generations for
Generations, a partnership between Help the Aged and Childline, and we were
delighted to support them with funding of over £930,000 during the year.
Outlook
Your Board views both the short and the long term outlook for Morrisons positively.
The business is well on track to achieve its goal of being the food specialist for
everyone, and the Executive team continues to see opportunities to invest in the
business for further growth. We expect to open c.350,000 square feet of new retail
space in the coming year, on top of c.500,000 square feet that we have agreed to
acquire from the Co-operative Group, reflecting our confidence in the attractions 
of Morrisons core grocery business.
In the current economic environment we expect the competitive landscape to 
be extremely challenging. However, the Group’s balance sheet is strong, and our
financing arrangements are prudent. We will remain focused on delivering freshness
and value to our customers.
Chairman’s statement continued
Final dividend
5.0p
Total dividend for the year
5.8p
+21
%
The Board has recommended a final
dividend of 5.0p per share, bringing
the total dividend for the year to 
5.8p per share.
