 3 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
continues to retain its position as the world’s
number one distributor of heating and
plumbing products and a leading supplier of
builders’ products to the professional market.
Dividends 
In line with the strong ﬁnancial performance
of the group, the board is recommending 
a ﬁnal dividend of 13.90 pence (2001: 12.35
pence), an increase of 12.6%. With the
interim dividend of 5.0 pence already paid,
total dividends for the year will amount to
18.90 pence per share, an increase of 11.8%
over dividends declared in respect of last year.
The dividend reinvestment plan continues 
to be available to shareholders.
Employees
As always, I would personally like to extend
my thanks to all our employees, without
whose contribution this excellent set of
results could not have been achieved. Over
the years I have had the honour of meeting
many of them whilst travelling around the
group. I continue to be impressed and
encouraged by the strong and efficient
international teams that make up the 38,000
employees in Wolseley. I would also like 
to welcome all the new employees who have
joined during the course of the year,
especially our Dutch colleagues from Wasco,
the specialist trade distributor of plumbing
and heating products and spares, which we
acquired in July this year.
The board
I started this Chairman’s statement by talking
about change and will now conclude by
Chairman’s statement
Continued ﬁnancial strength
We live in a fast changing world to which
business has to respond quickly or risk
failure. Last year we witnessed the terrible
and tragic events of September 11 and at 
that time, many faced an uncertain future.
Businesses also had to adapt to the new
commercial environment in which they 
found themselves.
Despite the major economic uncertainties
that followed, Wolseley proved its resilience
and produced record proﬁts for the sixth 
consecutive year. The Group Chief
Executive’s review and the Operating and
financial review set out in more detail how
these results were achieved and outline the
group strategy. These excellent results
reinforce my view that Wolseley, building 
on its strengths, has earned, deserves and
outlining the changes to the board which have
taken place this year. After 12 years of service
to the group, David Tucker retired as 
a non-executive director in April. On behalf
of the board, I would like to thank him 
for his dedication and valued contribution 
to the group’s affairs especially as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. We welcomed 
Jim Murray, formerly Finance Director of
Land Securities PLC, to the board as a 
non-executive director. Jim is ideally suited 
to succeed David as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Finally, and on a more personal note, I am
retiring as Chairman this year after 47 years
with Wolseley, with 27 of those years spent on
the board and the last six years as Chairman.
It is with mixed emotions that I write this
statement for the last time. During my time
with the group, I have watched it progress 
to become the major international building
materials, plumbing and heating distributor 
it is today. I am proud to have been involved
in that development. It is also a matter of
some pride that I leave the group in such
strong ﬁnancial shape and under the guidance
of an outstanding management team. In
April, it was announced that John Whybrow
would succeed me as non-executive Chairman
following my retirement immediately after
this year’s AGM. As well as thanking him for
his contribution as deputy Chairman I wish
him all success in his new role.
I know that I leave the group in excellent
shape and good heart and I wish it and all 
its people everywhere good fortune.
Richard Ireland
Chairman
These excellent results reinforce my view 
that Wolseley, through building on its
strengths, has earned, deserves and continues
to retain its position as the world’s number
one distributor of heating and plumbing
products and a leading supplier of builders’
products to the professional market.
