 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 08 Group Chief Executive’s review
Group Chief Executive’s review
An eighth consecutive 
record year for Wolseley:
High quality businesses
directed by a proven 
strategy and led by 
outstanding managers
I am proud and honoured to report that this has been the eighth consecutive
record year for Wolseley. In 22 of the last 23 years, we have seen either
increased sales or trading profits. Sales and profits stand at record levels 
as we once again produced double-digit growth. On a constant currency
basis, these figures are more impressive still.
What has driven our growth? The principal reason that we have out-performed
the market to a significant degree is due to our focus on high quality businesses
directed by a proven strategy and led by outstanding managers. We are 
also fortunate that a good economic environment in the UK and an improving 
one in the USA have played their part and that the bulk of our business is
generated in these economies. This year’s figures have also benefited from
increased commodity prices, particularly those for lumber, copper and steel.
Charles A Banks
Group Chief Executive
WO10065_01-43  12/10/04  11:14 am  Page 08 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 09 Group Chief Executive’s review
Meeting customer needs across two continents
Whether they distribute pipes in Ottawa, help 
to fix leaking taps in Provence or sell boilers in
Arkansas, Wolseley companies are high quality
businesses that meet customer needs more
effectively than the competition.
Amongst the investments made during the year was a further expansion 
of our distribution centre network on both continents. In the USA, Ferguson
opened a new distribution centre in Richland, in the state of Washington,
and progress is well underway in expanding two of its existing facilities. 
In France, Brossette has reorganised its branch and distribution network 
to improve operational efficiency. With better distribution to an expanded
network of branches, customers are sure that when they visit one of our
outlets, the products they require will either be in stock or be available in 
the shortest possible time, with most branches receiving next day delivery.
Customers tell us that they want easy access to branches and when they
get there, they want to find the widest possible range of products and
employees who are knowledgeable and well trained in those products and
their applications. Wolseley as a Group is constantly increasing the number
of products available at our branches so that whether a customer needs
building materials, plumbing parts or underground pipes, more can be
obtained from one place. And for those customers who don’t have the
opportunity to visit the branch, we can take orders over the phone, by fax
or through our websites which allows them to order from home and take
delivery of our products to the job site. 
Building for the long-term
Wolseley is not in the business of continuously 
re-inventing itself to achieve short-term gain. 
We remain faithful to the strategy established 
over three years ago and which has proven 
itself as the platform for long-term success. This
strategy includes continuing with the aggressive
branch opening programme, seeking growth 
from acquisitions, investing in infrastructure, and
leveraging the Group’s unique international position.
A key component of the strategy is our target of double-digit growth through
acquisitions and organic growth, which we once again achieved in 2003/4.
In contrast to last year, when our acquisitions included the purchase of the
French business PB & M (formerly Pinault Bois et Matériaux) (“PBM”), at a
cost of some m565 million (£390 million), the last 12 months have witnessed
fewer acquisitions but greater organic growth from existing businesses. As I
mentioned in last year’ s report, the opportunities for acquisitions do not present
themselves in a neat, evenly spread fashion to enable us to hit our target 
for bolt-on acquisitions of £200 million per year. Provided they fit in with our
strategy and meet our financial criteria, we seize them whenever and wherever
they arise, which could mean spending over £500 million, as we did in 2002/3,
or spending considerably less, as is the case with the year under review.
Fifteen acquisitions were completed for an aggregate spend of £124 million
and I relish the prospect of bringing these companies into the Wolseley family.
The most significant purchase in the 2003/4 financial year was the £54 million
acquisition of Tobler, which heralded our entry into the Swiss heating market.
+
23.2
%
> Group sales 
up 23.2% to 
£10.1 billion
With a market share of around 24 per cent, Tobler is Switzerland’s leading
wholesaler for heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and ‘behind the wall’
sanitation products, and is also one of the leading providers of technical
maintenance services. Three further acquisitions were made in Europe, all in
the French building materials sector, at a total cost of £6 million. We continue
to look at opportunities in both Europe and North America, although the
balance in the year under review was weighted towards North America,
where 11 acquisitions were made for a total consideration of £64 million.
Stock Building Supply (“SBS”) acquired four businesses during the year 
for £36 million in total, the largest of which was Bellevue Building Supply of 
New York State. Bellevue operates from seven branches, a distribution centre,
a truss manufacturing centre, a kitchen warehouse and a manufacturing
centre that specialises in doors, stairs, worktops and wall panels.
Another source of growth has been the expansion of our branch network.
Branch numbers worldwide increased by 5.5 per cent to 3,637, with 62 added
through acquisitions and the remaining 126 being net new branch openings. 
In the UK, a net 97 branches were added, bringing the total to 1,513. In
mainland Europe, our branch network now numbers 880, including 30 new
branches. In North America, we welcomed a further 61 branches into the
Group and our network currently stands at 1,244. 
Whilst acquisitions fuel some of the step-changes in our performance,
organic growth delivered by continuous improvement underpins the steady
increase in Group efficiency and profitability. During the year, our companies
completed a number of reorganisations. Ferguson integrated Familian
Northwest, creating one plumbing and heating company across the USA,
while SBS reorganised itself into ten districts and changed the way it
interfaced with suppliers and customers with specialist sector teams set 
up to service, for example, the national house builders. Brossette in France
changed its management structure to enable managers to specialise and
focus on either sales or branch operations and its branch structure was
reorganised to optimise regional infrastructure and synergies. 
WO10065_01-43  12/10/04  11:14 am  Page 09 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 10 Group Chief Executive’s review
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
During the year both the UK and French businesses took the first steps to
moving to new office accommodation to support their national businesses.
For Wolseley UK, this means that ten offices are to close while the move to 
a new head office will create a much more cohesive and efficient management
team, leading all the UK brands.
Investment continues to be made in distribution centres, either with new
sites being constructed as in the case of Richland, USA, which opened 
in November 2003, or through the expansion of existing sites, for example 
at Front Royal and Fort Payne in the USA. 
International leverage
As Wolseley grows, so too does the potential
for leveraging our size and expertise across the
business. During the year, further investment 
was made in our Group’s infrastructure, in logistics,
systems and human resources. In order to support
our ambitious growth targets and as part of our
continuous improvement programme, we are
bringing about greater cohesion across our operating
units through leveraging our international purchasing,
international sourcing and supply chain efficiencies. 
In support of these initiatives, we committed to a major investment 
in a common IT software platform. We have created a dedicated team, 
led by Rob Marchbank, Director of Information and Processes, which 
has appointed PeopleSoft as the key contributor for the project to manage
the implementation of the technology throughout the Group, starting in 2005. 
In the first two years, we expect to spend £30 million, and this investment
marks the beginning of a concerted drive to bring our companies closer
together, allowing them to share resources and work together to streamline
the supply chain and generate new efficiencies. Initially, the IT project is
focusing on a common financial application which will provide all companies
with detailed information, in a consistent way, giving us greater knowledge
and control whilst helping us to address the complex governance issues
which we face in different countries.
A number of other applications are also being developed for the common
IT platform including, for example, a branch warehouse management
package, which is being piloted by some of our plumbing and heating
businesses. Significant benefits are expected to arise over the next 
few years from the Group’s improvement programme, enabled by 
the common IT platform.
The common IT platform investment will leverage our software 
spend ensuring that all operating companies benefit from leading-edge
technology and lower prices. Long term, the IT project will bring even
higher standards of consistency and reliability to Group-wide data and 
key performance indicators. 
As we begin to make our size count, we will be the winners, in terms of
reduced costs, increased efficiency and a better return on our investments.
We will gain from purchasing economies, from international sourcing, 
an increase in the use of our own brand products and economies of 
scale from greater market penetration, and our distribution centre network. 
In addition, our customers will also benefit from access to more products,
which will be supplied with even greater reliability and cost-effectiveness as,
in partnership with our suppliers, we take costs out of the supply chain.
New segments, new geographies
We have continued to implement a strategy 
of diversification, bringing new products to
customers in new geographic areas and in 
new business segments. 
For example, our acquisition of PBM means that Wolseley’s proven
expertise in building materials can now win new customers among French
construction professionals. PBM, which trades under the principal brands
of Reseau Pro and Panofrance, is the natural complement to our Brossette
business, which already meets customer needs in the plumbing and heating
segment. Together, these companies have given us a greater market share
in France and provide a solid platform for future growth. PBM will gain
significant benefits in the year ahead, as they draw on the building materials
and timber expertise of Build Center in the UK and of SBS in the USA.
+
31 .0
%
> Group operating 
profit up 31.0% 
to £580.2 million
WO10065_01-43  12/10/04  11:14 am  Page 10 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 Group Chief Executive’s review
This expertise in building materials distribution will also be available to 
the Brooks Group, acquired in Ireland after the year-end. The addition 
of building materials and timber distribution to the existing plumbing 
and heating business, Heatmerchants, offers the scale and cross-selling
opportunities already seen in the UK and France.
In terms of geographic diversity, the acquisition of Tobler has given us access
to the important and profitable Swiss marketplace. Tobler currently focuses
on ‘behind the wall’ sanitation, the hidden pipework of a typical bathroom
or plumbing project. Now Tobler is eager to examine ways of selling a more
diverse product offering such as ‘in front of the wall’ products where our
expertise will help them. At the same time, we intend to exploit Tobler’s
knowledge of underfloor heating and, where appropriate, to incorporate 
it into our other businesses.
In 2003/4, SBS expanded into several new cities in the USA. High quality,
cost-effective building materials are now available to customers in cities as
far apart as Los Angeles, California to Boston, Massachusetts and Rush
City, Minnesota to McAllen, Texas.
In the UK, Bathstore.com completed its first full financial year as part of the
Wolseley Group. Where our other UK businesses, such as Plumb Center,
sell to customers through warehouse-style operations, Bathstore.com
enables us to reach a new customer base through a network of stylish, 
up-market showrooms. Over the 12 months, the number of showrooms
has increased from 33 to 58.
Best practice sharing has become a strong feature of the Wolseley culture
in the past year and this has been demonstrated in the way that the
Wolseley UK model of small express branches were piloted at five 
Ferguson locations in the USA. The success of these pilots has resulted 
in the decision to roll-out more than 50 of such “XpressNet” branches in 
the year to 31 July 2005.
People make the difference
What is it that makes Wolseley the company 
it is today? Looking beyond the branches and 
the distribution centres, the products and the
logistics, I believe that it is the quality of our
people that sets us apart. Our customers rely 
on the combined efforts of our 50,000 people 
to provide the right products and services, 
when and where they need them.
Over the last year we have continued to expand our commitment to
developing human resources. We are unique and too large to rely on our
peers to train the talent we need for the future, so we invest considerable
sums to ensure that we attract and retain the brightest people in the industry.
Our Executive Education programmes are delivered by the Darden School 
of Business at the University of Virginia and also by the IMD in Lausanne,
Switzerland. More than 160 senior executives have attended Darden since
2000, while 80 attended IMD in November 2003 alone. We intend to double
our commitment in the coming year, with two programmes scheduled for
each venue. 
Towards the close of the financial year, we launched the European
Graduate Recruitment Programme, under the banner headline of
‘Wolseley: Europe’s best-kept secret’. The Programme complements 
our established graduate initiatives in individual companies, and will
provide us with a pipeline of skilled, multi-lingual professionals able 
to bring a pan-European perspective to our business. 
We have also identified a set of management competencies that will 
help us to improve our performance appraisal processes, assess our
current pool of talent and develop programmes that meet our future
human resources needs. A new programme of long-term international
assignments is enabling our people to share knowledge across national
borders and cultures. The past 12 months have seen a steady flow of
Wolseley managers crossing the Atlantic to apply the lessons learnt in 
one business to the challenges faced in another.
More efficient, lower cost, enhanced margins
We have enjoyed a tremendous year but there is
always room for improvement. At the heart of the
Wolseley culture is the desire to create innovative
solutions for our customers. Armed with expertise
gained through experience in 13 countries, we
constantly invest in our infrastructure in the hunt
for more efficient, lower cost and better ways 
of working, which enhance our margins. 
One of the highlights of the year under review was the inaugural Wolseley
Cup, a new internal competition aimed at generating and circulating
innovative thinking. As we get bigger, we need to leverage our creativity
and resources, and the high quality of the Cup presentations demonstrated
what we can do when we begin to share and work together. The following
pages detail just six of the ways in which we are providing innovative new
solutions for our customers, including the winning Wolseley Cup entry
from our Ferguson business in the USA, together with those from the
two runners-up: Wolseley Canada and Wolseley UK.
The ideas that sprang forth from the Cup are practical as well 
as inspirational. These are real examples of how innovation and
commitment are transforming the way in which we work. Great ideas
have to be nurtured if they are to fulfil their full potential, so I have asked
all seven Cup finalists to update the evaluation committee on their
progress and compete in a new competition, the Graduate Cup.
Next year’s Wolseley Cup will reflect our increased focus on human
resources and focus on achievements which have promoted our 
people recruitment, retention and development throughout the Group.
WO10065_01-43  12/10/04  11:14 am  Page 11 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 12 Group Chief Executive’s review
Looking
ahead with
confidence
This has been a great 12 months for Wolseley and I believe that the
coming year will prove no less rewarding. We have the right strategy 
in place and it is being executed with skill and passion by a great
management team.
We have identified further opportunities for geographic and product
diversification, and are investing significantly in the human and
technological resources that will enable us to seize these opportunities
with vigour.
I am proud of our achievements and confident that we will continue 
to meet customer needs by providing the right products and services,
when and where they are needed, at competitive prices. 
Charles A Banks
Group Chief Executive
WO10065_01-43  12/10/04  11:14 am  Page 12
