 4 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Group Chief Executive’s review
The group has performed strongly in its markets, 
despite challenging business conditions. This year’s 
results conﬁrm that we have been pursuing the right
strategy to deliver improving returns for our shareholders.
I see no reason to change that strategy and will continue
to build upon the solid foundation which Wolseley 
has ﬁrmly established. 
Driving the business 5 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
It is always gratifying as Chief Executive to 
be able to report excellent results for the group,
especially in the economic environment
which followed the tragic events of
September 11, 2001.
However, before I outline the key points of
our strategy, I want to take this opportunity
to pay tribute to Richard Ireland, our
Chairman, who retires at the AGM this year,
after a long career with the group. Richard
joined the company in 1955 and over his 
47 years with Wolseley, he has risen through
the ranks, joining the board in 1975 as 
Group Finance Director, serving for 20 years
before retiring in 1994, when he became 
a non-executive director. In 1996, he became
non-executive Chairman. Following John
Young’s early retirement in June 2000, the
board were grateful when Richard stepped
into an executive Chairman role for almost 
a year, until I took up my post in May 2001. 
It is impossible to quantify the enormous
contribution that he has made to the 
group, guiding the business towards
international expansion and presiding over
the implementation and enforcement of
Wolseley’s conservative accounting legacy.
More recently he helped bring focus to
Wolseley with the decision to divest of its
manufacturing businesses. He hands over 
the group in excellent shape with ﬁrm plans
in place to continue to deliver the results that
shareholders expect. I would personally like
to thank him for his help and support over
the last year, and on behalf of the board, 
I wish him well in his retirement.
The strategic direction of the Wolseley group is key to its
future success. When I took up my post as Group Chief
Executive in May 2001, I said that we would:
Charles Banks
Group Chief Executive
forward
Grow through acquisition 
and organic expansion
Wolseley remains committed and focussed on distribution and continues to set itself the 
target of annual double digit growth in sales and earnings. Growth will come through 
a combination of both acquisitions and organic expansion.
Develop a European strategy
Europe is becoming one market. By managing the European Distribution division as 
a more cohesive European unit, Wolseley should achieve significant benefits and synergies 
and be better able to exploit market opportunities.
Leverage our international position
The business world is becoming increasingly global. Wolseley has a unique international
position and a great opportunity to take advantage of this globalisation. The group intends 
to leverage its international market presence to ensure it can continue to enhance 
the business.
Enhance business diversity
Wolseley has deﬁned itself as a distributor of construction materials with a current market focus
on North America and Europe. The diversity comes from a broad range of product, type of
customer, geography, value added opportunities for growth and increased investor returns.
and develop our people
Wolseley recognises that the continued success of the group depends on its people, their
development and commitment to the company. This will require a strategic emphasis 
on a continual programme of recruitment, training and development of top quality 
people at all levels. 6 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
of acquisition spend compared to the 
average annual target of £200 million a year
reflected the uncertainties in the market 
in the immediate aftermath of the events 
of September 11. The group continues 
to seek acquisitions to expand all areas 
of its activities. 
In Europe, the £60.3 million of acquisitions
include the group’s ﬁrst entry into plumbing
and heating distribution in The Netherlands,
through the £36 million acquisition of Wasco
Group in July 2002, the leading heating
equipment and spares distributor in that
country. This acquisition will be used as 
a platform for expansion of the sanitaryware
business and the opening of new collect
centres to service smaller, professional
contractors. Wasco’s spares business will 
also be developed, utilising its recently
established 110,000 square feet spare parts
distribution facility. In the UK, Wolseley
expanded its plastic pipes distribution
business by acquiring 26 outlets from
Glynwed Pipe Systems for a consideration 
of £23 million.
Most of the £86.3 million acquisition activity
in North American Plumbing and Heating
Distribution related to the expansion of
Ferguson’s presence in the fast growing
waterworks market. Clayton, the fourth
largest distributor of waterworks, wastewater
and storm drainage material in the USA, was
acquired in April for £75 million. Clayton
operates from 31 branches in six states
(Florida, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Georgia
and Mississippi) and one in each of Barbados
and Trinidad. The business has a particularly
strong market position in Florida which has 
Wolseley’s target remains double digit growth
in sales and earnings. This is a substantial
and challenging target, but one that creates
opportunities for our employees and our
investors. It is not unrealistic when you look
at the structure of our group and our
markets. We are in a very fragmented
industry and we look at our acquisitions as 
a way of expanding our product offering 
and our geographic presence to provide the
platform for future organic expansion. The
group broadly aims to spend £200 million 
on acquisitions each year, principally bolt-
on’s to existing businesses, but never ruling
out the opportunity for larger transactions
which could take us into new markets or
signiﬁcantly expand our market share in
existing markets. The level of acquisition
spend each year will vary in amount and 
by division as opportunities arise. The
Operating and financial review on page 24
gives more details of acquisitions.
The group sets rigorous acquisition criteria,
which, when met for a proposed acquisition,
are followed by a period of intensive due
diligence. There is no ideal balance to the
group’s geographic presence and neither the
US nor the European market is favoured.
Acquisitions arise as a combination of careful
targeting and opportunism. More investment
will be allocated in those geographic and
product areas, where the group needs to
strengthen its presence in order to be 
a major player in a market. 
During the year, 14 acquisitions were
completed for an aggregate consideration,
including debt, of £160.3 million (2001:
£399.6 million). The slightly lower level 
a high investment in the waterworks and
underground drainage sector. Wolseley’s
Canadian business completed three
acquisitions for £4 million, primarily 
to expand its presence in the HVAC and
engineered pipe markets.
The US Building Materials Division
completed two acquisitions in Washington
State and Northern Virginia for £13.7
million as part of its continued strategy to
expand its geographic coverage into markets
which offer good growth prospects. 
Branch numbers increased by 193 (7.0%) 
to a total of 2,939 at 31 July 2002. A net 104
new branches were opened during the year.
In the UK, 86 were added bringing the total
to 1,219. In mainland Europe, 52 new
branches were added bringing the total there
to 580. There were a net 29 closures in the
USA, primarily due to a disposal of certain
loss making HVAC locations and closure 
of duplicated Westburne US locations. 
The number of locations in North America,
including Canada, now totals 1,140.
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Growth through acquisition 
and organic expansion 7 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 8 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Group Chief Executive’s review continued 9 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Last year we indicated that developing a 
new European strategy and an appropriate
structure was an important part of Wolseley’s
strategy going forward. This is work in
progress which we will continue to report on
as it develops. Our European businesses have
outstanding management and personnel.
They are doing an excellent job for Wolseley
and our customers. However, there are a
number of cultural issues that need to be
understood and respected in the process of
developing a more comprehensive integrated
European strategy. We want to enhance the
performance of these companies and their
people, while at the same time ﬁnding ways
to broaden our presence and take advantage
of the changing European market.
We are currently working on plans to exploit
the successful customer approaches and
programmes that we have in our markets 
in all the countries in which we operate. 
This offers us exciting opportunities 
for growth in existing markets, as well 
as improving the prospects for identifying
acquisitions in new markets and countries. 
Opportunities exist to leverage our
investment in the operational and
administrative side of the business. Strong
progress has been made in the development
of logistics and supply chain management
programmes in some of our markets and we
believe this can be helpful towards profitable
expansion in both existing and new markets.
We are also very excited about the potential
operational benefits that can be derived 
from a more cohesive and integrated
approach to the application of technology,
human resource development and the
ﬁnancial systems of our European operations.
The group takes pride in its strong position
in the European markets in which it operates.
These companies form the basis of an
expanded organisation that can focus on the
changing European market and provide
continued growth for Wolseley. 
The European market is changing to 
become a single market with fewer obstacles
to commerce and increased opportunities for
growth. Wolseley recognises that its European
division has an opportunity to adapt its
structure to reflect these changes. By
managing the European Distribution division
as a more cohesive European unit, Wolseley
should achieve significant benefits and
synergies and be better able to explore market
opportunities. We are already located in ten
European countries and supply a wide variety
of products and services to our customers.
This provides us with a foundation to create
a European business with a more integrated
approach to the market. 
Developing a European strategy 10 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
From a ﬁnancial perspective, we are already
international in our approach to investors.
We have been listed on the London Stock
Exchange for decades and we are in our
second year with an ADR listing on the New
York Stock Exchange. Our investor base is
now more diverse and we recognise access to
capital markets on both sides of the Atlantic
as an opportunity and a strength. We have
also expanded our banking relationships on
both sides of the Atlantic, in order to ensure
our expansion plans are supported by
appropriate ﬁnancial plans.
We believe our international position
provides an opportunity to create growth 
in returns for our investors, exciting
opportunities for our employees and
enhanced ways of servicing our customers.
dealing with the same supplier in a number
of different countries. We believe our
purchasing power and relationship with 
these suppliers offers exciting market
opportunities. As more and more products
are manufactured in lower cost areas, there
are increasing opportunities to leverage
buying power to acquire them.
In the area of technology, vendors are also
consolidating and the technology to manage
processes is becoming global. This is a good
opportunity to eliminate duplication, to
minimise cost and improve performance 
and processes. It provides a platform to 
share information and creativity among 
Wolseley’s companies.
Customers are also becoming more
international. While our average installer is
not crossing international boundaries, many
of our large industrial accounts, as well as
many of the large home builders and
contractors, are crossing borders and dealing
internationally. No one is in a better 
position to serve these customers than
Wolseley, and this offers another growth
opportunity to leverage the group’s position.
Wolseley has pursued an international
expansion strategy since 1982 when it
acquired Ferguson Enterprises in the USA.
Since that time we have expanded from our
small origins in the UK into 11 additional
countries. This expansion strategy has
propelled the group’s growth in sales and
proﬁtability and we see it as a key
opportunity for the future.
Today, even more so than in 1982, the 
business world is becoming increasingly
globalised. We think this trend will 
continue and we intend to take advantage 
of these changes.
Currently we operate in 12 countries with
outstanding companies in their local markets,
acting independently at the operating level
subject to financial and strategic direction
from the corporate centre. We deal with 
our customers and our local markets in
accordance with their local customs. This
approach is a very important part of the
success of Wolseley and one which will
continue to be applied and enhanced.
At the same time, the globalisation of 
markets and products gives us some unique
opportunities to leverage our position,
structure and size. The supplier base is
consolidating and increasingly we are 
Leveraging our international
position 11 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 12 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 exceptional on time delivery. Our buying
power can be enhanced by the volumes of
similar product across our business, such as
PVC, copper and steel pipe. 
Lastly, the opportunity to provide value
added services to our customers not only
improves margins, but increases our
relationships with our customers. Whether 
it involves fabricating steel pipe, assembling
valve actuators, assembling roof trusses or
creating custom millwork, these capabilities
are critical in differentiating us in the market. 
Diversity is just one part of the foundation
that provides substantial growth
opportunities and stability of earnings for
Wolseley and is shown on an annual basis 
by our historical results. We intend to
enhance this diversity by taking advantage 
of geographic expansion opportunities and
new products and services, as well as new
lines of business.
13 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Wolseley is a very diverse business and we
want to build and expand that as part of 
our strategy. Wolseley’s strategy is to have a
diversified approach to the marketplace that
provides for growth, as well as ensuring it is
insulated from the cyclicality of the sector.
This diversity is reflected in several ways:
diversity of geography, lines of business 
and products and services. By having a 
broad offering, Wolseley’s performance 
has been resilient in a volatile and cyclical
market sector.
Wolseley will continue to look for geographic
areas that offer growth opportunities and
foundations for further solid investments.
Being located in multiple countries on two
continents provides balance from fluctuations
in local market economies. 
Enhance business diversity
This allows Wolseley to take advantage 
of strong markets, and to minimise the
impact on the group when a local market
softens. It also helps towards providing a
better service to our customers who do
business across geographical boundaries.
Wolseley is well positioned to expand market
share as well as to take advantage of changing
business cycles. Our ability to capitalise on
the residential, commercial, repair,
maintenance, improvement and industrial
sectors enables the businesses to
accommodate changes in demand. In
addition, Wolseley is able to leverage
capabilities and investments across a broad
business offering.
Our competitive advantage is the ability to
offer a broad bundle of products. It allows
the customer to have all product
requirements met in one location and at one
time, thereby lowering the cost of doing
business. By having this wide product
offering, Wolseley is able to increase service
levels, improve ﬁll rates and provide 14 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Distribution is a people business. The quality
of our people is a major differentiator from
our competitors in the marketplace. 
Wolseley has 38,000 employees worldwide
and as we continue to grow and expand 
this number will increase. These people are
our major asset and the quality of our
recruitment, the effectiveness of our staff
retention and their development will play 
a major role in the success of Wolseley 
in the future.
A key part of an effective retention and
recruitment programme is providing visible
opportunity within the organisation. With
the growth we have planned, we feel there 
is tremendous opportunity for the people that
make up Wolseley. Our ability to capitalise
on those opportunities depends on
developing effective skills to meet the
challenges ahead.
Developing our people
A part of our strategy will be to ensure that
appropriate training is conducted within 
the individual companies and branches, 
so that people are prepared to perform at 
the highest level and also prepared to take on
career growth and additional responsibility
over time. We will continue to use the newly
implemented management development
programme at the Darden School of Business
and we will complement this and expand it
with an additional management development
programme in Europe, working with a
leading European business school. Wolseley 
is an international organisation and we will
develop exchange programmes designed to
ensure that many of our best people
experience the international aspects of
business. This is an opportunity to expose 
our people to challenges, opportunities, 
best practice and innovative ways of doing
business, so that they can learn and beneﬁt
from them and apply them in their future
roles and responsibilities. 
As Wolseley grows, top quality people 
are needed to deal with customers, to 
manage processes and to differentiate us 
in the marketplace. 
Our ability to perform as a leading
organisation is dependent upon our human
resources capability and the implementation
of our strategy. With this in mind, the
development of our people is of paramount
importance and a critical part of the 
group’s strategy. 15 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Distribution is a people business. One of the things that
differentiates Wolseley from its competitors is the quality 
of its people. Not only are they an integral part of the success 
of the group, but they are also committed to helping others
achieve their goals. Many give time to community events and 
a range of charities. They continually demonstrate that they 
are prepared to go beyond the call of duty to support the
business and the people in the community.
Brossette – The Brossette BTI branch in
Toulouse, France, was completely
destroyed last year in the chemical plant
explosion that killed 30 people and
injured 2,442 others. The first priority
for our staff was to ensure the welfare 
of all those wounded in the blast, which
included a number of Brossette staff. 
The second priority was to reconstruct
the branch as quickly as possible in order
to keep the customers supplied. Our
people showed an amazing spirit of
solidarity and determination. Just two
weeks after the blast, temporary offices
were set up, orders made to suppliers and
the branch started business again.
16 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Our people in the community
Ferguson – Two year-old Emma North,
together with her father Leigh North and
eleven other Ferguson Enterprises volunteers,
helped clean up the beach in south eastern
Virginia, in the USA. The project called
‘Clean the Bay Day’ successfully removed
175,455 pounds of rubbish within a 205-
mile area in Virginia. < 
Wolseley Centers – 16 Plumb Center 
staff and customers raised £40,000 for the
NCH (National Children’s Home).They
successfully completed a trek along sections
of the Great Wall of China and the
surrounding mountains. The team walked
over a 100 miles in high altitudes and 
soaring temperatures. The trip was very
demanding physically but with lots of pre-
fitness training and preparation, the team
completed the challenge.
> Wolseley Centers – Builder 
and Hire Center’s staff
celebrated the opening of 
a new branch in Plymouth 
by donating money to
Plymouth Argyle’s Football in
the Community scheme, to
help fund a six-week coaching
programme. This is just one 
of the many examples of
Wolseley Centers’ staff giving
money to the local community.
< 
Stock Building Supply – The staff at Anderson Lumber, part of
Stock Building Supply, welcomed the world as Salt Lake City, in the
US state of Utah, hosted the 2002 Olympic and Paralympic Winter
games. For 17 days in February and ten days in March, more than 
ten Anderson Lumber staff joined over 26,000 volunteers needed to
host the games. The volunteers helped with many tasks during the
event – including driving athletes, officials and Olympic families to
and from sporting events, answering spectators’ questions, removing
snow from the course and solving any problems on the day. Many
volunteers had to be up at 4.00am, work all day and then turn 
around and do it all over again the next day.
17 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002
Ferguson – Connie Luhrs, showroom
consultant in Ferguson’s Syracuse branch, 
in the USA, received a request for some
sunglasses from her son Christopher Miller,
who is in the military in Afghanistan. She
relayed the message to her manager and he
suggested sending some safety sunglasses out
to the soldiers in Afghanistan. The glasses
worked exceptionally well at keeping the
sand out of their eyes, so the Syracuse
branch sent additional glasses out to help
other soldiers on duty in the region. 
Wolseley Centers – Plumb Center staff
and customers raised £17,000 to help
buy a 15 seater Sunshine Coach minibus
for disabled children in the north of
England. It is the fifth Sunshine Coach
Plumb Center has given in co-operation
with the Variety Club golf society of
stars from the entertainment world.
