 06   Chairman’s statement Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
John W Whybrow
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
This is my first statement to you since becoming Chairman in
December 2002, following five years as a Non Executive Director of
Wolseley. Over the past year, I have had the opportunity to meet with
all our businesses, both large and small, across Europe, the USA
and Canada, and also to review the effectiveness of your board.
It is clear we have a strategy which is delivering shareholder value,
supported by excellent people, determined leadership and strong
brands in our various markets. The opportunities for growth are
evident, be they through acquisition or organic. One of our core
strengths has been our ability to service our customers and 
develop local markets. This remains a key competency, which 
will be increasingly complemented by leveraging our international
strengths throughout the organisation, from material procurement 
to IT infrastructure.
Good results have been achieved this year in spite of generally flat or
negative markets and a weakness in the US dollar. Cash generation
was strong, enabling maintenance of a healthy balance sheet combined
with a record level of expenditure on acquisitions, the largest being
Pinault Bois et Matériaux in France for m565 million.
Dividend
With our earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rising 
to 56.69 pence, the board is recommending a final dividend of 
15.6 pence which gives a total dividend for the year of 21.2 pence, 
an increase of 12.2% over the dividend declared last year. 
This reflects our confidence in the future.
Chairman’s statement The board
During the year there have been a number of changes to the board.
Richard Ireland retired, having been a board member for some 
27 years, the last six as Chairman. Richard made a major contribution
to the Company, steering it through many changes to become the
leading player it is today. Andrew Hutton, Executive Director with
responsibility for the UK and Northern Europe, retired on 31 July 2003
after 18 years with the Group, the last nine of which were on the
board. Andrew is recognised and respected as a man of great
integrity who consistently delivered excellent results. On behalf of the
board and our employees, I would like to thank both Richard and
Andrew for their strong support and wish them well in the future.
In July we were delighted to welcome Gareth Davis and, in August,
Gérard Legtmann to the board. Gareth joined the board as a 
Non Executive Director. He has an outstanding track record as 
the Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and is well
respected in international business. Gérard joined the board as 
the Chief Executive for Europe. This is a new position which reflects
the increasing opportunities we see to manage the business across
European boundaries, as we pursue our international strategy.
Gérard also brings with him considerable international experience 
in both Europe and the USA, including experience in implementing
change across organisations. I look forward to working with them 
in the future.
2003 will be seen as the year of corporate governance debate. 
The Wolseley board has paid significant attention not only to the
Higgs and Smith Reviews, but also to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The majority of the recommendations represent good practice and
are supported. There cannot, however, be a perfect governance
model and your board has been pleased to see that a number 
of changes recommended in the Higgs Report have been revised 
in the new UK Combined Code published on 23 July 2003. 
Your board believes it is important that leadership and responsibility
are clearly defined and that there is continued consideration and
debate in this area. Meanwhile, we will continue to apply high
standards of governance, conform to standards and, above all,
ensure entrepreneurial leadership.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our employees for their contribution
and efforts over the year. The pride and care taken by them all in
serving our customers is second to none. I would also like to thank
our shareholders for their continued confidence in the Company.
There is no doubt that the year ahead will be challenging, but I
assure you that we are committed to delivering a solid financial
performance together with ongoing growth.
John W Whybrow
Chairman
07   Chairman’s statement Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
