 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 06 Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
We continue to
meet customer
needs through
strong businesses
operating in local
markets
John W Whybrow
Chairman
WO10065_01-43  12/10/04  11:14 am  Page 06 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 07 Chairman’s statement
One year ago, in my first statement to you as Chairman, I said that it was
clear that the Wolseley strategy was delivering shareholder value. Twelve
months on, I am pleased to preface an Annual Report and Accounts that
documents the most successful year in the Company’s history. 
We continue to meet customer needs through strong businesses operating
in local markets across Europe and North America. The Board is particularly
pleased with the Group’s performance in the UK, USA and Ireland. Across
these countries, we have worked with considerable success to fully reap
the benefits of market conditions.
Elsewhere in this report you will find details of the Group’s core strategy,
which remains at the heart of the Wolseley business. This strategy is a 
real and practical policy, which our management is actively implementing
with commitment and expertise in every corner of our organisation.
Charlie Banks and his fellow Executive Directors lead the management
team with vision and energy. This ranges from implementing a Group-wide
information technology project that will transform our infrastructure and 
our potential for improvement, through to exploiting growth opportunities 
in the marketplace be they organic or by acquisition.
The Group is increasingly recognised by our peers and external
commentators for our consistently strong financial performance, 
as well as for our leading role in the marketplace.
This year our results have been particularly impressive despite weaknesses
in the US dollar and in some of the economies of Continental Europe.
From an international perspective, we have continued to promote the
Wolseley name and I look forward to our brand not only being increasingly
recognised as the authority on building materials distribution across all 
the countries in which we operate, but also representing the generation 
of shareholder value.
Dividend
With our earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rising to 
74.84 pence, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.0 pence,
which represents a total dividend for the year of 23.8 pence. This is an
increase of 12.3 per cent over the total dividend paid last year.
The Board
There have been four major changes to your Board during the year.
John Allan reluctantly decided that the demands of his Chief Executive role
at Exel plc, together with a range of new industry responsibilities, meant that
he was no longer able to fulfil his Non Executive duties. Jacques Descours
left the Board on 7 October 2004 in anticipation of his expected retirement
from Wolseley France in 2005. I would like to thank both John and Jacques
for their insight and active contributions that each has brought to the Board
over the last few years and wish them every success in the future.
During the year we were delighted to welcome Nigel Stein and Andrew Duff
to the Board as Non Executive Directors. Appointed on 1 December 2003,
and subsequently joining the audit committee, Nigel is Finance Director of
GKN plc. Andrew was appointed on 1 July 2004 and is a member of the
remuneration and nominations committees. Following 14 years at BP plc, 
he is Chief Executive of RWE npower. I look forward to working closely 
with both of them and am confident that they will bring new skills and
experiences to the Board.
The issue of corporate governance has continued to exercise the minds 
of the business community and I am pleased to report that Gareth Davis 
has now taken on the role of Senior Independent Non Executive Director. 
In common with many other UK companies with US listings, we are finding
that we need to put significant time and effort into complying with the
requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are formalising many internal
processes and are ensuring that they are documented in a form that can 
be externally verified. We are on track to comply with the requirements in 
this financial year.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their support
over the past year. From suppliers, customers and investors, we rely 
on your goodwill and commitment as we strive to maintain our record of
double-digit growth. I must reserve special thanks though for our 50,000
people, each of whom has played their part in making this such a very
successful year for Wolseley.
Together, we face the future with confidence and optimism. Buoyed by 
a strategy that continues to deliver, along with strong management teams 
in our operating businesses who demonstrate leadership as well as
management skill, we will generate further growth and improvement 
as we go forward.
John W Whybrow
Chairman
WO10065_01-43  12/10/04  11:14 am  Page 07
