 Charles A Banks
Group Chief Executive
WOLSELEY IS MEETING MORE
CUSTOMER NEEDS, IN MORE
PLACES AND WITH A WIDER RANGE 
OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, 
THAN A T ANY TIME IN OUR HISTORY
08   Chief executive’s review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Chief executive’s review 09   Chief executive’s review
An excellent performance 
in challenging circumstances
Today, Wolseley is meeting more customer needs, in more places
and with a wider range of products and services than at any time 
in our history.
Major construction companies building new condominiums in 
North America, self-employed plumbers fixing taps in the UK,
heating installers remodelling infrastructures in France and Canadian
contractors fitting out new homes inside the Arctic Circle… all rely 
on the strengths of Wolseley; strengths that have produced another
record performance despite some difficulties in the economies of
both the USA and continental Europe.
Wolseley has produced seven straight years of record results and
18 out of the last 21 years have seen increased sales and trading
profit
1
for the Group.
During the year under review the UK marketplace was buoyant 
and our management team took advantage of market opportunities
to turn in a top performance. With new branch openings, acquisitions,
tight cost controls and a strong sales effort the UK businesses grew
quickly and recorded an excellent financial performance.
Elsewhere in Europe, markets experienced low growth and in some
cases no growth. Yet we continued to outperform the market and
grow our profits. New branch openings in Italy, new products in 
the Netherlands and acquisitions in France all helped to produce
improved performances.
The US economy has been uncertain with some wide market 
and geographic variations. Housing and Repair, Maintenance and
Installation, along with Water and Sewer Infrastructure, were all
strong markets while Commercial and Industrial were weak.
Our US plumbing and heating division, Ferguson, produced robust
growth in earnings. Great progress was made on the integration of
the Clayton and Westburne acquisitions along with Familian Northwest
into Ferguson to produce a strong coast to coast and border to
border company. 
Ferguson celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2003 with another 
year of outstanding growth and profit contribution. The Ferguson
Enterprises team continues with its programme of bolt-on acquisitions,
enhanced supply chain management and market consolidation.
Our Canadian company produced another excellent year with
strong organic growth, several acquisitions and improved margins.
The Canadian economy was resilient; our people took advantage 
of those opportunities, outperformed their competitors and enhanced
their position for future growth.
1
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
The ongoing reductions in timber prices led to a disappointing year
for our Stock Building Supply (“SBS”) business. In the USA, timber is 
a major component in new housing and accounts for about 40% of
SBS’s turnover. Currently there remains too much timber supply in
the market and the average price has fallen for the third successive
year. SBS has taken the challenge, and is restructuring the business 
by consolidating operations and expects to take out $10 million 
of cost by 2005, while responding to changing customer trends.
I would like to put on record my gratitude to the people who,
together, have made Wolseley the great company it is today. 
During my 35 years with the Group, I have been accustomed to 
the passion and skill of our people, but I confess that even I have
been pleased and impressed by the drive, expertise and customer
dedication shown by our teams in the past year. Thank you!
Looking forward, we have a great opportunity for growth but we
must strive for continual improvement to really take advantage.
We are building a strong, diversified international Group serving 
the construction industry and focusing on the distribution of building
materials. Our customers are contractors, industry and government,
giving us a large market and diversified product offering together
with a customer base that is primed for growth.
Our international Group is made up of strong national companies
that develop their unique organisations and human resources,
maximising their effectiveness for their customers. This ensures 
a competitive and responsive organisation in our local markets.
Our presence in 12 countries gives us opportunity to leverage our size
as few others can. In particular, we are concentrating on purchasing
and back office functions and the elimination of duplication. 
We have a great opportunity and our strategic direction is focused
on the following six areas to ensure continued success: 
> growing through acquisition and organic expansion
> continuous improvement
> leveraging our international position
> enhancing our business diversity
> developing our human resources
> creating innovative solutions to meet our customers’ changing needs
As you can see from the following pages, we believe our efforts 
will make our companies more competitive and more effective, 
as we strive to bring greater benefits to all our stakeholders.
Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 10   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Growing through acquisition
and organic expansion
A key long-term strategy, acquisitions and expansion, ensures that we
continue to be able to meet more customer needs, in more locations,
and create more opportunities for our investors and employees. 
The target is double-digit growth in sales and earnings, year on year.
Consequently, we constantly examine all sectors, identifying quality
companies that will enhance our product and geographical diversity
while also showing evidence of the sound financial position that is 
the hallmark of a Wolseley brand.
We are able to fund our growth as a result of our financial strength.
Most acquisitions are bolt-ons to existing businesses, extending
either our diversity, our reach or both. However, we never rule out 
the opportunity to move into new markets in Europe or North America.
So while the focus remains on our core businesses of plumbing and
mechanical, heating and building materials, we constantly monitor and
evaluate emerging possibilities in the construction materials sector. 
In all cases, we set rigorous acquisition criteria. When these are met,
there follows a period of due diligence. Although we aim to invest
£200 million per year in bolt-on acquisitions, clearly the opportunities
do not always fall neatly into 12 month periods. During the previous year,
for example, we invested just £160 million in acquisitions. Yet in 2002-03,
we passed the £500 million barrier – a record for the Group.
Twenty four acquisitions were completed for an aggregate spend of
£513 million, with the most significant purchase being the m565 million
acquisition of Pinault Bois et Matériaux (“PBM”). This company is the
second largest heavyside distributor in France, with a market share 
of just over 8% and more than 5,000 employees working at some
300 locations across the country. Around 85% of PBM’s business
relates to the distribution of building materials and 15% to the
importation and distribution of timber. In the year to 31 December 2002,
PBM recorded sales of £861 million and operating profit, before
goodwill amortisation, of £50 million.
Neither do the opportunities fall equally between Europe and 
North America, the continents where we currently operate. 
There is no pre-set balance between the two regions. We are 
active in 12 countries and have ambitions to be active in many 
more. We will seize opportunities wherever they arise, whenever 
they arise, provided that they meet our acquisition criteria.
The majority of our acquisitions were made in Europe. In addition 
to the investment in PBM, we purchased 13 further companies at 
a total cost of £61 million. Of these, the largest was the acquisition 
of Bathstore.com which operates a network of branches in the UK.
Bathstore.com complements our existing Just Bathrooms brand. 
The US Building Materials Division, SBS, acquired three businesses
during the year for a total of £36 million. The largest of these was 
Wenco Distributors of Texas. Wenco is a leading distributor of 
millwork, lumber and building materials to professional contractors
and operates from eight facilities in Texas. This acquisition underpins
SBS’ continuing focus on value-added activities which represent 60%
of Wenco’s turnover (£88 million in the year to 31 December 2002).
The North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution business saw
£26 million of acquisitions. Seven companies were purchased, including
Meridian Specialities Inc. which became part of Wolseley Canada.
Meridian supplies industrial valves to the oil and gas, pulp mills and
mining sectors in Western Canada and had a turnover of £20 million
in the year ended 28 February 2002.
Branch numbers worldwide increased by 494 (16.7%) to 3,449 
at 31 July 2003. Altogether, 101 new branches were opened and 
393 were added through acquisitions, during the year. In the UK, 
153 were added, bringing the total to 1,372. In mainland Europe, 
our branch network now numbers 894, including 314 new branches.
In North America, we welcomed 27 branches into the Group and 
our network currently stands at 1,183.
1. Knowledgeable employees
Our specialists operate warehouses 
on behalf of Feenstra. We know our
customers’ business, and the needs 
of their plumbers, inside out.
Our response
2. Depth and breadth of product
During the day, our scanner technology
monitors product usage by Feenstra
plumbers. Overnight, we replenish
stocks in the vans outside the 
plumbers’ homes.
3. Same day and next day deliveries
We provide the right products in the
right place at the right time. Because 
the plumbers no longer have to visit the
warehouse to stock up, they are able to
attend up to two extra jobs per day. I NEED
MY V AN STOCKING UP
OVERNIGHT , WHILE I SLEEP
Ilco tem Bokum > Plumber for
Feenstra > Twello, The Netherlands
Our WASCO business has worked
with Feenstra, the national gas
company in the Netherlands, 
for more than 15 years. WASCO
is now the sole distributor of spare
parts to Feenstra.
Twello I NEED
TO KEEP THE TAPS
RUNNING FOR THE
PEOPLE OF VIENNA
Thomas Weichselberger > 
Reservoir Manager > 
Vienna, Austria
Our ÖAG business supplies the
pipework, valves and associated
products that carry water over 
100 miles from mountain springs 
to underground reservoirs to taps 
in Vienna.
Vienna 13   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Continuous improvement
For 20 years, Wolseley has set high standards in terms of sustained
growth and profitability; yet we are neither complacent nor content.
We know that the pursuit of double-digit growth and acceptable
returns for all stakeholders demands continuous improvement 
from all our businesses.
Over the past 12 months, we have continued to support initiatives
that will advance the organisation. An example is the three-year
focus that has seen the establishment of a framework and strategy
to improve our use of capital. At a Group level, we aligned executive
compensation and provided direction on areas that should be
addressed. The operating companies then took the initiative to
develop specific action plans relevant to their own circumstances,
such as accounts payable, surplus inventory or accounts receivable
management. This focus has seen working capital ratios improve
from 16.1% in 2001 to 15.4% in 2003. The result is a substantial
improvement in free cash flow, from £214 million in 2001 to 
£248 million in 2002 and £269 million in 2003.
Initiatives at our Ferguson distribution centres (“DCs”) in the USA
illustrate the point. Over the last three years, the Ferguson team has
worked with passion and determination to improve the operating
performance of the DCs. Particular attention has been paid to areas
including supplier lead times, demand forecasting, the replenishment
process between the branches and the DCs and data management.
While maintaining a service level of over 96% for the period, 
the team reduced the days in inventory from a 12-month average 
of 60 days in 2001 to 33 days in 2003. In addition, ‘no value
inventory’ was reduced by 70%.
The use of measurements such as Key Performance Indicators has
been central to continuous improvement at Ferguson and elsewhere
across the organisation. In the UK, for example, our Heavyside
Division has implemented a Balanced Scorecard approach that
focuses on financial best practice and also promotes service,
understanding and development among customers, staff and
suppliers. This new initiative now forms the bedrock of the culture
within the UK businesses and early benefits have been noted in
terms of financial performance, staff training and development 
and the level of customer understanding and service.
In the drive for improvement, SBS is re-inventing the way in which
the company goes to market and how it conducts its internal
processes. The central concepts include:
>re-organisation of the company around markets, instead of stores
>improved service created by deeper understanding of customer needs
>growth and expansion of value-added products and services
>development of SBS and associated brands
>reduced costs through process standardisation and improvement
SBS has already re-organised its structure in North Carolina, 
South Carolina and Georgia, consolidating five regions into two districts.
All credit, payables and purchasing functions have been centralised
at a district or central level. To support the ongoing re-organisation,
the company is recruiting national business managers who will tighten
the SBS focus on customer needs and value-added services.
1. Process management
We work closely with customers such
as the Viennese Water Company to
continuously improve our process
management expertise.
Our response
2. Price
ÖAG currently has more than 2,000
contracts to supply the products that
enable the people of Austria to enjoy
water supplies – at an affordable price.
3. Product availability
The Viennese Water Company relies on
us to deliver peace of mind as well as 
a full range of pipework, valves and
associated products. 14   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Leveraging our 
international position
Operating through 3,449 branches in 12 countries, we have access to
an extensive bank of experience and expertise that we are increasingly
leveraging in order to share benefits across the business.
During the year, we increased the focus on conducting pan-European
negotiations with major suppliers. Where in the past our brands
have sourced products independently, we are now beginning to
negotiate better value through centralised purchasing processes.
Similarly, we are examining our Group-wide purchasing patterns in
the Far East and aim to establish a collective sourcing programme
which will reduce costs. Across the Group, we buy many products
from many sources. Now we intend to make sure we enjoy the best
possible terms, as befits a major customer.
In North America and Europe, we have also focused on the 
Group’s indirect spending and identified opportunities to reduce
costs and leverage our global purchasing of items such as stationery,
telecommunications and insurance.
Increased integration and information, and data sharing, are further
examples of how we are capitalising on the international strength and
resources of the Group. IT is a key component of the plan, enabling
the organisation to effectively implement these programmes as well
as addressing duplications and encouraging synergies throughout
the business.
We are currently looking at a number of different areas to apply
technology within the Group. We plan to introduce a common
financial application across the Group over the next year. We will 
be replacing the IT systems in our Austrian operations. We have 
had a team of over thirty people, representative of all of the Group’s
operations, who have been examining ways in which the Group’s
processes and procedures can be improved. We are looking for
ways of moving towards more commonality of approach to drive
increased synergies and leveraging opportunities internationally,
across the Group.
The year also saw the introduction of a corporate ‘strapline’ for 
the first time. The descriptor ‘a Wolseley company’ now underpins
the individual identities of the brands, and serves to bring a new
cohesion and sense of unity to the different businesses. We intend
to achieve more linkage between companies and brands and 
to inspire customers and employees to recognise and value 
the connections.
The renewed emphasis on leveraging our international presence in
no way compromises our firm commitment to the principle of local
teams building local businesses which meet local customer needs.
Every Wolseley brand is strong in its own right, in its own marketplace
and we will continue to empower management to manage.
Finally, we established four Learning Centres, each sponsored by 
a member of senior management to promote common initiatives
across Wolseley. These initiatives will not only support the sharing 
of ideas and information, but will also assist in expediting the
implementation of these ideas in other areas of the business.
1. Job site management
Every delivery to the Warwick site is
made to a specific plot, as and when 
it is required – twice a day if necessary.
Our response
2. Depth and breadth of product
From Durox and aggregate blocks to
Dunbrik flues, the customer is confident
in the price, quality and availability 
of Builder Center products.
3. Value added services
A team of Builder Center representatives
is dedicated solely to meeting the needs
of Taylor Woodrow and is constantly
innovating new and improved services. Stephen Parr > Director of 
Supply Chain > Taylor Woodrow,
Warwick, UK
Our Builder Center business in 
the UK delivers consistency and
reliability across a huge range of
projects for leading builder Taylor
Woodrow, including a major 
‘Bryant Homes’ site in Warwick.
I NEED
THE RIGHT
MATERIALS 
AT THE
RIGHT TIME
Warwick 16   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Enhancing our 
business diversity
Our products include condensers, blocks and boilers; tubes, flues
and felts; A-frames, pumps and septic tanks; plywood, softwood
and hardwood. They cover every type of fixing and ironmongery 
that you can imagine and many more that you probably can’t.
Construction, plumbing and heating professionals depend on
Wolseley for the timely delivery of a vast and ever-increasing range
of products, as we continue to implement a strategy of diversification:
of geography; of lines of business; of products and services.
The results are twofold. Firstly, we are able to meet more customer
needs in more locations. Secondly, by having a broad offering, 
we are more insulated from downturns in particular markets 
and are able to take advantage of strong markets elsewhere.
Our competitive advantage is built on an ability to offer the broadest
bundle of products and to therefore meet all customer requirements 
in one company, reducing the cost of doing business. We are trusted
partners who help our customers carry out their jobs more easily
and effectively. As we become more diverse, so the customer/
Wolseley relationship strengthens.
During the year, a number of developments enhanced our business
diversity and deepened our business relationships. In Canada, 
for example, we expanded into the distribution of High Density
Polyethylene (“HDPE”) and the Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
(“HVAC”) sector in order to more fully meet the demands of our
customers. Those customers are now reaping the rewards of our
expertise in supply chain logistics, as well as our buying power, 
and seeing the benefits in terms of fill rate, availability and price.
It is a similar story in Eastern Europe, where we have invested 
in excess of £1 million in a new distribution centre in Budapest.
Customers in Hungary are now able to enjoy levels of service
previously unavailable in the region.
In the UK, the purchase of Unifix has enhanced our catalogue sales
capability and ensured that UK customers can benefit from Wolseley
standards through their channel of choice.
We will continue to add new products and services to our existing
operations. In particular, we are keen to replicate successful models
across the Group. We will continue to add geographic diversity such
as our recent moves into the Netherlands and Canada. This diversity
is significant in providing continued steady growth of sales and profits.
1. Standard automated processes
Ferguson’s computer tracking system
routes deliveries more efficiently,
ensuring on-time service as well as
reducing unnecessary freighting costs.
Our response
2. Diverse product range
Humid weather, combined with the use
of chemicals, creates a constant need
for equipment repair and replacement.
Ferguson always carries the right range
to keep the mill in operation.
3. Project management
Regular project meetings between the
local Ferguson manager and the customer’s
purchasing team mean that we can
continue to surpass their expectations, 
in terms of service, price and availability. I NEED
REPLACEMENT
PARTS QUICKL Y
AND A T THE
RIGHT PRICE
Chea Hak > Winder operator 
at Newsprint Division, 
Alabama River Pulp Co Inc 
> Monroeville, USA
Our Ferguson business has a 
25-year relationship with the team 
at the Alabama River Pulp Co Inc,
delivering the products that keep 
the mill turning.
Monroeville I NEED
PRODUCTS THAT MEET THE
NEEDS OF MY CUSTOMERS
M. José Sebban > Owner of
Mounier Sanitaire > Lyon, France
Our Brossette business has
supported the success of 
Lyon-based Mounier Sanitaire 
for more than a decade.
Lyon 19   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Developing our 
human resources
We offer an excellent product range distributed through a diverse
network of branches. Yet it remains an indisputable fact that
customers do not buy from store locations: they buy from people.
Furthermore, it is people and not processes or technologies that
execute strategies.
We rely on our people on the ground to drive sales. Managers are
empowered to create innovative solutions to meet the changing
needs of their customers. Consequently, we continue to expand 
our commitment to the human resources function, ensuring that we
attract and retain the best and the brightest people in the industry.
There is a long tradition of loyalty within Wolseley. Many of our
people have been with the Group for most of their working lives 
and 15-20 years of service is commonplace. At the same time, 
we acknowledge the need for a ready flow of fresh thinking and
innovation. In the USA alone, our plumbing and heating business
recruits almost 500 graduates each year. These are the people 
with the skills, commitment and passion to serve that will drive 
the Wolseley brands forward in the coming years.
The Executive Development Program is delivered by the Darden
School of Business at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville.
Focused squarely on teaching practical, valuable skills that can be
put to work immediately, the programme is the foundation for future
management insight and expertise. The last 12 months have seen
the number of Wolseley executives who have attended Darden rise
to over 120 and a further 40 will benefit during the current year.
Additionally, almost 80 of our most senior managers will attend a new
programme at the IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland in November 2003. 
It focuses on the strategies outlined in this document and how 
they can best be executed worldwide.
We are now embarking on an international assignment programme,
which will enable managers from one part of the business to be
seconded to another. During the past year, we produced the first issue
of Directions magazine. Complementing our growing use of the
Intranet, Directions is a publication that will extend and enhance the
dialogue between managers throughout the Wolseley organisation.
The aim of both the assignment programme and the magazine is to
encourage the Group-wide sharing and understanding of best practice.
The corporate commitment to acquisitions creates a major challenge
for our HR teams. In the 12 months to 31 July, we welcomed many
thousands of new people into the organisation as a direct result of
acquisitions. The PBM purchase alone brought 5,300 people into
Wolseley. Our approach towards integration is centred on partnership
and mutual understanding: we respect cultural differences and
support new employees as they become part of the Wolseley family.
1. Relationship with the company
Brossette provides a personal, 
proactive service to Mounier Sanitaire
that accurately reflects the company’s
hands-on approach to its own customers.
Our response
2. Depth and breadth of product
A family-run business specialising 
in bathrooms and heating, Mounier
Sanitaire consistently specifies and
recommends the Nabis range supplied
by Brossette.
3. Knowledgeable employees
The owner of Mounier Sanitaire relies 
on the sales and support experts 
at Brossette to keep him up to date 
with the latest developments. 20   Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003
Creating innovative 
solutions to meet our 
customers’ changing needs
Ours is an ever-changing industry.
New techniques, legislation and products, together with a range 
of economic and social factors, are constantly shaping the needs 
of our customers. The building, plumbing or heating solution 
of today is the outdated, expensive concept of tomorrow.
How do we continue to meet these evolving needs?
Firstly, by investing time and drawing on our fund of industry
experience to anticipate or recognise shifts in demand and putting
the processes in place to meet them in good time. Secondly, 
by taking a proactive stance and being the driving force behind
some of those changing market needs. We play our part in the
industry by encouraging innovation within Wolseley and remaining
flexible and open to new ideas at all levels of the business.
There are a number of examples of how Wolseley innovation
delivered benefits to customers during the year under review.
Many of our branches now incorporate updated and refreshed
showrooms. As well as showcasing extended ranges from our
manufacturer partners, the showrooms also enable customers to
see ideas and product solutions in action for themselves. Express
and self-service counters have been upgraded in locations across 
all our businesses, allowing the experienced professional contractors
to buy the products they need with minimum delay.
We constantly innovate new or improved ways in which to help our
customers run their businesses more effectively. Capitalising on the
trend towards outsourcing among local authorities, Wolseley Centers
is the supply chain partner for a facilities management company
which provides maintenance and repair services for around 33,000
council-owned homes in Liverpool, UK. We supply everything from
stationery and building materials to spares and plant. In the first year
of the seven-year contract, this relationship has delivered significant
earnings for the Group while reducing costs for the customer 
and also ensuring a high level of satisfaction for the Council.
We worked closely with customers on several initiatives, listening 
to their needs and developing appropriate solutions. We’ve set 
up integrated supply solutions for industry, municipal customers 
and contractors. Furthermore, all Wolseley businesses are now
introducing own-label products to fill gaps in the marketplace 
by offering features and price points unavailable in existing lines.
Recognition is a key component of any effective innovation
programme, and this year Wolseley introduced The Wolseley Cup,
which will be awarded to the Wolseley business that has created 
the most innovative customer solution.
Connecting with our communities
We employ 46,000 people in a diverse range of communities, 
from capital cities to small rural towns. In each case, we aim to
maximise the benefits of our presence among local people while
minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
Wolseley brands are an integral part of the construction, plumbing
and heating sectors throughout North America and Europe. As you
will see from this report, we’re keen to play our part to the full. 
Charles A Banks
Group Chief Executive
1. Depth and breadth of product
Whissell relies on Wolseley Canada Inc
for the huge range of products involved
in the effective installation of large
pipework projects, such as fire hydrants.
Our response
2. Next day delivery
A computerised ordering process and
ready availability of products combine to
ensure that deliveries are made to meet
the precise needs of the customer.
3. Relationships with company
Personal service is the cornerstone of
the Wolseley Canada Inc advantage.
Wolseley people work closely with the
customer team to identify objectives
and monitor performance. I NEED
QUALITY PRODUCTS
AT COMPETITIVE
PRICES
Mark Dumont > Site foreman 
at Whissell Contracting 
> Calgary, Canada
Our Wolseley Canada Inc business
works closely with Whissell
Contracting, helping to sharpen 
the customer’s competitive edge 
in Calgary’s local government 
and private sectors.
Calgary
