 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8
Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information
Another year of substantial progress
Chairman’s statement
* Restated for IAS 19 (Revised) “Employee Beneﬁts”.
Results and strategy
I am delighted to report that 2013/14 has 
been another year of substantial progress 
in what continues to be a transformational 
period for the Group under the stewardship 
of Ian Meakins, our Group Chief Executive, 
and his Executive team. Like-for-like 
revenue grew 4.2 per cent with a strong 
trading proﬁt performance, up 8.6 per cent 
in constant currency. Headline earnings 
per share of 196.2 pence was 9.9 per 
cent ahead of last year (2012/13 restated*: 
178.5 pence). We delivered an excellent 
cash performance, which is enabling us to 
both invest in the business and appropriately 
reward shareholders. You can read about 
this year’s performance in detail in the 
Financial review on pages 36 to 41.
Over recent years our priorities have 
developed from reshaping the portfolio 
towards driving proﬁtable growth and 
developing our business models. The heavy 
lifting is now largely completed and the 
business today is on a much stronger 
footing. We are now focusing on our 
attractive businesses with strong market 
positions. Today over 81 per cent of the 
Group’s revenue is generated by businesses 
that are either number one or number two 
in their markets. The growth opportunity 
in these markets remains large and we 
will continue to invest in and expand these 
businesses in the future. 
Now that we have a strong set of 
businesses to invest in, we have reﬁned 
our strategy to accelerate proﬁtable growth. 
In addition, we are also now stepping 
up investment in new business models, 
infrastructure and technology to ensure 
we drive appropriate beneﬁts of scale. 
I am immensely proud of the progress 
we have made this year in this area and 
you can read about some of the exciting 
projects, beneﬁting both our customers 
and our businesses in Ian’s review on 
pages 12 to 13.
Good governance and 
transparent reporting
It is my role as Chairman to lead the Board 
effectively and central to this is good 
governance. So you can easily see how we 
are governed, we have provided a corporate 
governance overview on page 57 of this 
Annual Report. We also brieﬂy set out how 
our governance structure supports delivery 
of our business strategy. You can ﬁnd more 
detail in the Governance section starting on 
page 56. On page 42 we have also provided 
an overview of the principal risks that might 
prevent us from achieving the full potential of 
our strategy and the actions we are taking to 
mitigate and control those risks.
Hand in hand with good governance goes 
transparent reporting and this year we have 
made a number of changes to the Annual 
Report to promote this. Some have been 
required due to changes in UK reporting 
regulations, others through changes to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and some 
by ever-evolving reporting best practice. 
Signiﬁcant changes include this Strategic 
report, which starts by explaining our 
business model and goes on to describe 
how each element helps to deliver our 
strategic goals. 
Finally, running Wolseley on a sustainable 
basis is an integral part of achieving our 
overall strategy. As such, the Board remains 
fully committed to this important aspect of 
how we operate. Our progress and our drive 
for continuous improvement is set out in the 
Sustainability section of this report on pages 
48 to 53.
The changes we have made to the Annual 
Report are also intended to reﬂect 
our efforts to make it fair, balanced 
and understandable.
In summary 
Strong earnings per share 
growth of 9.9 per cent
Rebased total dividend 
to 82.5 pence  
(2012/13: 66.0 pence)
£250 million share 
buyback programme
Further strengthening 
of the Board with three 
Non Executive Directors 
appointed in 2013/14 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9
Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information
Shareholder returns
We are strongly committed to maximising 
shareholder value. This year we rebased 
our dividend with an interim dividend 
increase of 25 per cent. The Board is now 
proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 55.0 pence 
per share (2012/13: 44.0 pence per share) 
for payment on 27 November 2014 to 
shareholders on the register on 17 October 
2014. This represents an increase of 25 per 
cent and will bring the total dividend for the 
year to 82.5 pence per share (2012/13:  
66.0 pence per share).
During the year we took the decision to 
return £298 million of surplus cash to 
shareholders by way of a special dividend, 
paid on 16 December 2013. Our balance 
sheet remains very strong and the Group 
will continue to target net debt in the 
range of 1x to 2x EBITDA, consistent 
with investment grade credit metrics. 
Due to the continuing strong cash 
generation of the Group and after taking 
into account the excellent opportunities to 
invest in organic growth and acquisitions, 
the Board considers that the Group has 
surplus cash resources available. The Group 
will now commence a £250 million share 
buyback programme with the intention to 
complete this within the next 12 months.
Leadership and people
During the year there have been a number 
of changes to the Non Executive Directors 
serving on the Board. In November 
2013, Andrew Duff stepped down from 
the Board after nine years of service as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
Michael Clarke also stepped down in March 
2014 to take up a new executive role based 
in Australia, having served on the Board 
since March 201 1. Finally, in July 2014, we 
also announced that Michael Wareing will be 
stepping down at this year’s AGM after over 
ﬁve years’ service. I would like to thank them 
all for their dedicated service and signiﬁcant 
contributions to Wolseley and I wish them 
well for the future.
Over the past three years I, alongside my 
colleagues on the Nominations Committee, 
have sought to ensure that the right balance 
of skills and breadth of experience are 
reﬂected on the Board. In particular, we 
wanted to enhance the Board’s retail and 
international experience and ensure we had 
successors for the Chairmanship of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The retirement of former Non Executive 
Directors has afforded the opportunity to 
augment the strength of our Board and we 
conducted a thorough search to identify the 
following new members. On 1 May 2014, 
Darren Shapland joined the Board as a 
Non Executive Director, having previously 
been Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of J Sainsbury 
plc. Darren will succeed Michael Wareing 
as Chair of the Audit Committee following 
the AGM in November. On 21 May 2014, 
John Daly and Jacky Simmonds joined 
the Board as Non Executive Directors. 
John has over three decades of business 
and management experience, including the 
last 14 years with British American Tobacco 
plc in a variety of senior leadership roles 
running large international businesses. 
Jacky is a highly experienced HR 
professional in the international retail and 
leisure industry. She is currently Group HR 
Director of TUI Travel plc, one of the world’s 
leading leisure travel companies, a role she 
has held since 2010. In July 2014, Jacky 
took over from Alan Murray as Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank all of our colleagues throughout 
Wolseley for the tremendous efforts made 
by everyone to deliver the results this year, 
in what continues to be a very exciting 
period for the Group. It is their continuing 
commitment and focus to deliver great 
service to our customers which enables 
the delivery of substantial progress for the 
Group as a whole. 
Gareth Davis  
Chairman
“ We are 
strongly 
committed 
to maximising 
shareholder 
value. ”
