 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
08 Group Chief Executive’s review
I was delighted and honoured to take over as
Wolseley’s Group Chief Executive on 1 August 2006.
We enjoyed a great run under Charlie Banks’
leadership and I want to put on record my admiration
for his tremendous achievements. 
Charlie established some fine foundations which are
reflected in the figures you see in this Report, with
2005/6 characterised by excellent growth in North
America, strong market outperformance in the UK,
good performances in Holland, Switzerland and Italy
and broadly satisfactory results elsewhere in the Group. 
In North America, Stock Building Supply achieved
excellent results, outperforming the market and growing
sales by 27.4%. Towards the end of the year a
reduction in housing starts and a fall in the price 
of timber affected revenue and this is likely to be
continued into the current financial year. Ferguson 
saw outstanding growth, with a 35.1% increase in 
top line performance and 40.4% bottom line growth
driven by some of the highest fill rates in the industry,
our ongoing distribution centre strategy, our market
focus and a clutch of successful acquisitions. Wolseley
Canada recorded a solid performance and again
delivered double-digit growth.
Despite major changes to our UK business, which
included the completion of a comprehensive
restructuring, the business performed well in a
challenging market, with good acquisition performance
driving sales up by 14.4%. In continental Europe, the
highlights included good progress in Switzerland and
Italy, the Benelux countries and also a rewarding
performance from our French business, PBM. The
results from Wolseley Austria and Brossette were less
satisfactory, although we remain confident that both
these businesses will deliver improved performance in
the coming 12 months.
This time next year, I expect to be reporting results 
from three new Wolseley countries, after the completion
of our acquisition of DT Group, which was agreed just
before the year end. At just over £1.3 billion this is the
largest single acquisition in Wolseley’s history so far.
DT Group is the Nordic region’s leading distributor of
building materials, with a strong presence in Sweden,
Norway, Finland and Denmark and significantly
broadens our European reach.
Just as the DT Group acquisition will take us into 
new geographic areas, others have taken us into 
new product areas. For example, during the year
Wolseley UK bought William Wilson and AC Electrical
to move into the electrical distribution sector for the
first time and moved further into the insulation
materials market through the acquisition of Encon. 
In the USA, Stock Building Supply also entered into
the electrical products and services market and
strengthened its position in installed services, meeting
a clearly emerging need from our major home
construction customers.
We invested £914 million on a total of 53 acquisitions 
in seven countries during the year, as follows:
North America Europe
Number of acquisitions 31 22
Total consideration for 
acquisitions £497m £417m
An impressive year
This has been another
outstanding1 2 months 
for the Group, with record
results for the1 0th year 
in succession. W e are
positioning ourselves  
to make further progress
Group Chief Executive’s review
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:09 pm  Page 08 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
09 Group Chief Executive’s review
Our European market: At the end of the 
financial year we had operations in1 3 European
countries, having moved into Belgium for the 
first time. As the new year opened, we were 
finalising our acquisition of DT Group which 
gives us a major presence in Sweden, Norway, 
Finland and Denmark.
Historically, acquisitions have delivered around half 
of our annual growth and this is an area where our
management team are strong. In industry at large,
there is always concern that acquisitions fail 
to deliver the anticipated benefits; at Wolseley a
rigorous assessment process and skilful integration
into the Group ensures that acquisitions perform in 
line with expectations and deliver shareholder value.
A simple business model, executed with
commitment and focus
A distribution business like ours is not an overly
complex model. 
What makes us different is the way in which we focus
on our markets and execute our business model.
That’s the competitive advantage behind our growth 
– and we’re not about to radically change such a
proven strategy.
So the future is about evolution not revolution. The
emphasis remains on growth, through acquisitions 
and through organic growth driven by our capabilities
in four key areas which are at the heart of our success:
People
We invest in – and support – the most important
resources that we have: our people. Our customer
experience is based on interaction with our 70,000
plus people and customer service is at the heart 
of every recruitment we make and every training
programme we launch. Our commitment is to recruit
and train the best people available throughout our
industry that have a particular eye on providing
outstanding customer service. This includes the way
we assist customers in all aspects of their business, 
by providing the right products at the right time, as
well as being knowledgeable in all aspects of their
particular needs.
Product
We continue to offer more products and services to
more customers in more sectors in more countries.
We buy the right products at the right specification
and the right price. Our objective is to have the widest
product offering of anyone in the industry, so we 
can fulfil all of our customers’ particular needs. This
includes carrying some of the most recognised brands
in each of our business sectors to allow us to support
our customers in each specific area.
Distribution
We buy our products well and provide those products
and services reliably, efficiently and quickly to our
customers. Our logistics infrastructure allows us to
ensure that our size translates directly into better,
faster service. Our objective is to have the highest
order fill rates of anyone in the industry, as this will be
of great benefit to our customers so that they consider
us to be not only reliable, but also, more importantly, 
a true partner in their business.
Service
We shape our business to meet our customers’ 
needs in whatever way is most advantageous for
them. We go out of our way to make it easy for
customers to choose Wolseley – whether that’s
through deliveries, collection services, online shops,
shared branches or any other initiative. Since the
largest majority of our business is transacted at the
local level, through more than 4,650 locations across
Europe and North America, our objective is to lead 
the industry when it comes to access and availability 
of product.
You can read practical examples of our model in
action on pages 12 to 19.
A track record of success and a 
focused future
We have demonstrated year after year that by 
doing it our way, we can consistently deliver excellent
performance. In this, our tenth successive year of
delivering record results, we have again demonstrated
that, despite facing some challenging market
conditions, we can continue to grow and in most
cases have been able to outperform both the market
and the competition. 
So our emphasis remains on profitable growth driven
by an ever stronger focus on the core competencies
that underpin the execution of our business and 
some key factors that we believe give us true
competitive advantage.
Our structure is designed to keep the right activities 
at the right level in the Group – the continental groups
are directly responsible for the profits of the operating
companies they oversee. This is their key priority and
area of focus. In addition, they are responsible for
organic growth; being same branch sales, new branch
openings, expansion into new geographies, as well as
expansion into new customer types throughout their
areas of responsibility.
At the Group and continental levels we also focus on
the strategy and our five core competencies, which
feed into the operating companies and underpin their
ability to grow.
Human resources and leadership development
Customer service is why we exist as an organisation.
Identifying and training the top talent within our
industry therefore not only impacts customer service,
but also our ability to support double-digit growth.
Whilst we recognise that people are a large component
of our costs, we strive to identify and train people as
one of our most valuable investments. 
Ireland
UK
Netherlands
Denmark
Luxembourg
France
Belgium
Switzerland
Czech Republic
Austria
Hungary
Italy
San Marino
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:09 pm  Page 09 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
10 Group Chief Executive’s review
Our North American market: We have an 
extensive branch presence across the continent,
served by our impressive Distribution Centre 
network. During the year we continued to grow 
our leading positions in both the building materials 
and the plumbing and heating markets in the US
and Canada.
Charlie Banks retires
Charlie Banks retired at 
the end of the financial 
year, following 39 years with
Ferguson and Wolseley, the
last five as Group Chief
Executive. Here is his parting
message.
“It has been an honour and a
privilege to have been associated
with Wolseley for so many years.
In my time as Group CEO, we
saw sales almost double in size
and both the share price and 
EPS rise dramatically. It has 
been an amazing journey.
None of our achievements would
have been possible without the
continued support of our
shareholders and debt providers.
I am also grateful to the Board for
giving me the opportunity to lead
this great company and to our
employees, without whose
unswerving commitment we
would not have been able to
execute our strategy and deliver
such exceptional growth.
I know that we have laid the
foundations for continued
success in the coming years and
I have total confidence in Chip
Hornsby and his team to lead
Wolseley to new and even 
greater heights.” 
Organic growth and acquisitive growth 
We have just appointed Adrian Barden, previously
Managing Director of our UK business, to a newly
created position to lead our global M&A efforts. 
This will bring even more focus to our acquisition
processes, in a more competitive market, including
developing a target base of acquisition opportunities
on both continents, establishing a formalised
integration process of acquisitions into the Group and
refining our post acquisition performance review process.
Sourcing
We are elevating sourcing to a higher level to deliver
the right products to our customers. This will include
responsibility at the Group level for the top 30–50
suppliers, which will be coordinated with both the
continental groups.
We want to identify and drive low cost country/own
brand/proprietary brands throughout the entire Group
so that this will be a significantly larger portion of our
business within the next two to three years. Indirect
spend initiatives will also deliver cost savings across
our business.
Supply chain 
We are developing a format such that supply chain
becomes a distinct competitive advantage across the
Group. Simply put, our intent is to have the broadest
product offering with the highest fill rates of anyone in
the industry. We believe that the right combination of
sourcing and supply chain will become a significant
competitive advantage.
Business improvement
Our aim over the next several years is to continually
improve our net margin by focusing on a number 
of growth and cost reduction initiatives. In looking 
at the longer term, increased focus on efficiency and
productivity throughout the entire Group will bring great
benefit in improving our overall net margin. The utilisation
of information for the benefit of customer service and
productivity will be at the forefront of this initiative, but
it is certainly not limited to that aspect alone.
The future
So what are my objectives for our organisation in the
immediate future? We are still focused on delivering
double-digit sales growth – but now with a greater
emphasis on margin improvement and the new
leadership structure is designed to allow us to build 
on our experience and our scale. 
Our customer base runs into millions – every one of
them with individual needs, being serviced by our front
line staff. Above all, this is a relationship business and
the only way to make it work is by serving local
customers, locally. We will continue to go out of our
way to try and help our customers succeed – we
make their problems our problems and we work with
them to find solutions. Loyal customers provide repeat
business and increasingly more business, as the
amount of product they buy from us increases.
We are also making it easier to do business with us 
at all levels. In the USA and the UK we have structured
our branches into focused “business groups” (USA) 
or “core brands” (UK) to put a real emphasis on a
particular sector, customer or product range. 
Results from the businesses structured this way 
show significant organic growth, so it’s a model we 
are extending across the Group. This single point
focus on specific customer groups, be they plumbers,
electricians, roofers, or general contractors, means our
customers know what they can expect. Our team of
people are real subject and product experts, the
products are relevant to the requirement and the
customer remains loyal.
Looking ahead
We have huge potential for further growth. As you will
see in our Performance review on pages 20 to 41 the
size of our potential market is vast and despite our
success we still have only a relatively small share.
Look across the 19 countries where we currently
operate and you’ll find that we are in just about every
sector of construction materials somewhere – but we
don’t as yet provide a complete offering anywhere.
Even without moving beyond Europe and North
America, there are significant opportunities for our
businesses to share knowledge and learn from each
other’s experiences in order to extend our product
range and introduce ourselves to new customers.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Board and you,
our shareholders, for giving me the opportunity to lead
this great company. I believe we have a tremendous
future ahead of us and with the continued loyal
commitment of our outstanding 70,000 plus strong
team, without whom we would be nothing, we can
look to the future with confidence. We are committed
to making Wolseley “the name the world builds on”.
Chip Hornsby
Group Chief Executive
Distribution centre
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  16/10/06  3:00 pm  Page 10 >
Looking
ahead
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:09 pm  Page 11 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
12 Group Chief Executive’s review
People – we’ll continue to create and develop
exciting and innovative programmes to attract
high quality employees into the Group. 
But we’ll also increasingly invest in training 
and development programmes which are
designed to help all our people fulfil their – 
and our – potential.
> Investing in people
People are our key
competitive advantage.
We support them in many
different ways, ensuring that
they have the skills to meet
our requirements and their
career goals.
Invest
>
Thomas Kopsa, Amy Beal and Jason Powers, 
Ferguson Trainees in Raleigh Durham, USA
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:09 pm  Page 12 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
13 Group Chief Executive’s review
In North America, Ferguson is widely respected for
market-leading graduate programmes that once again
brought people into the organisation in 2005/6 and
has recently seen them recognised by Business Week
magazine as one of the top 50 places in the USA to
start and build a career. People don’t just join Wolseley
companies – they stay at Wolseley companies for long-
term careers. Our new Group Chief Executive, the
head of our North American organisation and the
President and CEO of Ferguson, along with countless
other members of our leadership team, each have
over 20 years’ service with the Group.
The European Graduate Programme (“EGP”) delivers 
a pipeline of internationally-minded graduates who 
can move effortlessly between cultures as well as
languages. The programme, which provides a mix 
of on-the-job training with formal residential courses, 
has proved popular with trainees and managers alike.
Across the Group, the EGP is complemented by 
a wide range of innovative activities, ranging from
established programmes at Stock Building Supply to
the new Groupwide International Leadership
Development Programme, among others.
During the last year we invested £21 million on
142,000 days of training and development.
This investment in our people allows us to deliver the
services our customers need. For example, British 
Gas service engineers are able to get on with their
jobs, thanks to an innovative agreement with Wolseley
UK. A single national account means that engineers
can collect products and spare parts from any of our
branches throughout the UK, with just a signature,
meaning better and more immediate service for British
Gas customers.
> Delivering to the customer
We work hard to ensure that
our recruitment programmes
are geared to identify
customer-focused people
with the passion to deliver.
Deliver
Duncan Fellows, British Gas Engineer, Cheltenham Spa, UK
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:09 pm  Page 13 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
14 Group Chief Executive’s review
Product – we’ll continue to introduce new
products to our existing customers, giving
them the opportunity to buy more goods 
and services from us. But we’ll also use our
understanding of industry trends to identify
emerging demands and win new customers 
in new sectors.
Today
> Today’s trends
We believe that we 
offer the broadest product
range in our industry, under 
the umbrella of countless
brands from more than 4,650
branches across 19 countries.
>
Earth wire sold by William Wilson, UK
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:09 pm  Page 14 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
15 Group Chief Executive’s review
In the UK, we moved into the electrical distribution
sector for the first time, through the purchases 
of William Wilson and AC Electrical. In the USA, 
we followed suit with the acquisition of Efficient, 
an electrical supplier based in Las Vegas. In both
instances, we’re giving customers more opportunities
to become – and remain – Wolseley customers.
In the Spring, Brossette and PBM opened a joint
facility “Batipole” in Lannion, France, allowing
customers to purchase from one location building
materials from PBM’s Reseau Pro brand, electrical
products from Brossette’s CDL brand and plumbing
and heating equipment from Brossette. The French
businesses will continue to innovate to find ways to
meet their customers’ needs.
High volume, production builders in the western States
of the USA are increasingly demanding a turnkey
installation service from suppliers – they need the
people who provide the frames to also install
equipment throughout the build project.
Stock Building Supply evolved its business model 
to meet this new demand, shaping its service to win
business from a new set of customers by providing
the products and services they need, how and where
they need them.
Tomorrow
> Tomorrow’s advantage
We’re always looking for 
new opportunities where 
our expertise and experience
can provide customers with
more products at the right
specification and the 
right price.
Charles Evans and Ronnie Patterson, Stock Building Supply, North Carolina, USA
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  11/10/06  8:36 pm  Page 15 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
16 Group Chief Executive’s review
Distribution – we’ll continue to roll out our
proven Distribution Centre (“DC”) strategy,
using our expertise and financial strength to
set the industry standard in logistics. But we’ll 
also develop initiatives at the sharp end of 
the supply chain, creating new ways to get
products to customers, with increased speed
and reliability.
> More choice and availability
Over 50% of Ferguson products
now pass through the doors of
one of their 9 DCs – and the 
Iowa facility alone handles 
over 77,000 products.
Scale
>
Wolseley UK’s new DC, Royal Leamington Spa, UK
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:10 pm  Page 16 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
17 Group Chief Executive’s review
Our DCs have helped to transform the Ferguson
business in the US. DCs don’t only save costs – they
also have impact on customer satisfaction. Fill rates
out of the US DC facilities regularly exceed 94% and
are amongst the highest in our industry.
Now we’re rolling out the DC model across Europe.
The new National Distribution Centre opened in the UK
in August 2006 and the Italian DC will follow towards
the end of the year. Plans are already advanced to
open similar facilities in other countries.
Through the “branch within a branch” initiative, we
establish a counter from one brand in the premises of
another, thereby increasing the branch’s total product
offering without increasing the size of the branch itself. 
At the Wasco branch in Diest, Belgium, we have gone
one step further – implanting not one but two new
product areas within the branch. So in addition to 
their regular plumbing and heating supplies, Wasco
customers can now access spare parts from a Parts
Center area and specialist fixings from a Unifix area, 
all under a single roof. These additional product areas
are also introducing a new customer base to the
Wasco brand.
> Less hassle and cost
We constantly search for
innovative ways, such as 
our “branch within a branch”
concept, to take more
products to more customers.
Simplicity
Wasco branch, Diest, Belgium
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  11/10/06  7:33 pm  Page 17 Convenient
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
18 Group Chief Executive’s review
Service – we’ll continue to exploit technology
in order to interact with customers in whatever
way they prefer. But we’ll never forget that
successful business relationships are built 
on successful personal relationships.
> Remote capability
We look for ways to make
it easy for customers to do
business with us – and that
includes Internet technology
that enables customers to 
buy online.
>
Tobler’s innovative website – www.haustechnik.ch
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:10 pm  Page 18 Personal
Few people would place plumbers close to the top 
of a list of those who use the web in their daily lives.
Yet a recent e-business initiative at Tobler in Switzerland
is proving the very opposite. The Tobler website
experiences an average of over 1,600 hits each day
and more than 15,000 unique visitors per month.
All 50,000 plus Tobler products are available online. 
If customers place an order by 6pm, products are
delivered first thing the following morning, either to 
the plumber’s business or to the job site.
In the UK and the USA, we’ve structured our branches
to put a real emphasis on a particular sector, customer
or product range. This single point focus on a specific
customer group – such as plumbers, electricians,
roofers and so on – delivers a truly personal,
knowledgeable service. Customers know what 
to expect and they know that our people will give
them the personal service they need to get on with
their jobs.
Our customers’ experiences are based on their
interaction with our people. We invest in a wide range
of programmes that help ensure that when customers
meet any of our people, they do so with somebody
who speaks their language – literally as well as
professionally – knows their business, understands
their pressures and can meet their needs. 
> Personal service
We get close to our
customers, listening to what
they need and then creating
innovative, often highly
personalised services, 
to match.
Bob Smith, Wolseley UK, providing customer service for 60 years
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
19 Group Chief Executive’s review
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:10 pm  Page 19
