 Wolseley plc 01
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report – Business review
Directors’ report – Corporate governance
Financial statements
Other information
Wolseley has begun to emerge from the extremely 
difﬁcult market environment of the last three years. 
Through tough actions and a new strategic approach, 
the business is well positioned to exploit the 
opportunities that lie ahead.
1
  Trading proﬁt, a term used throughout the Annual Report, 
is deﬁned as operating proﬁt before exceptional items 
and the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets. 
See note 12 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for 
a reconciliation from operating proﬁt to trading proﬁt.
Highlights of the year
Markets stabilising
In 2010 revenue was down 9 per cent 
to £13,203 million. There was a gradual 
stabilisation of our markets, with RMI 
segments generally holding up better than 
the more volatile new residential segments. 
This led to a strong second half and like- 
for-like revenue growth in the fourth quarter.
Lower cost base
Since the start of the recession we have 
taken action to lower the cost base, 
as revenues decreased. Operating costs 
in the year to 31 July 2010, were reduced 
by a further £353 million or 10 per cent.
Resource allocation completed 
In March 2010 we announced our intention 
to focus future growth on those Wolseley 
businesses where we have built substantial 
scale, leading market positions and 
excellent customer franchises. We have 
completed our plans for this year.
Improved trading proﬁt
1
Despite a decrease in revenue of 9 per cent, 
actions to protect gross margins and the 
beneﬁt of a lower cost base enabled 
the Group to increase trading proﬁt to 
£450 million (2009: £447 million).
Exited underperforming 
businesses
During the year the Group has exited 
from several businesses. This included  
our businesses in Ireland, the French 
Public Works business and our  
plumbing and heating activities in  
the Czech Republic,  
Belgium and Slovakia.
Net debt reduced
The Group continues to place a high 
degree of emphasis on cash generation. 
Continued working capital discipline and 
management actions to conserve cash 
and capital expenditure meant that our 
net debt at 31 July 2010, was reduced 
by £613 million to £346 million (2009: 
£959 million).
£1 3.2bn –£353m 
£450m
–£613m
