 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12
Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information
Performance
I am pleased to report a good overall result 
in 2013/14 against a backdrop of good 
market conditions in the USA and continued 
weak demand in Europe and Canada. 
The standout performance was the USA 
where we achieved a record 7 .7 per cent 
trading margin, strongly outperforming 
the markets in all of our major segments. 
Like-for-like revenue growth in the UK was 
lower as we continued to protect gross 
margins. We faced economic headwinds 
in Continental Europe and here we have 
taken further action to lower operating 
costs. Our strong balance sheet means 
we have continued to invest in technology 
and processes to develop more efﬁcient 
business models to support improvements 
in operational efﬁciency and to improve our 
trading margin, which is now up to 6.0 per 
cent for the ongoing businesses. 
See pages 26 to 35 for more about 
our performance
Group strategy and 
business model
Our strategy is unchanged and you can 
read about our progress this year in the rest 
of this Strategic report. Over recent years we 
have embedded the process of allocating 
capital for investment to those businesses 
capable of generating the best returns for 
shareholders. For example, a signiﬁcant 
proportion of investment is now being 
allocated to our USA operations where we 
have strong, market-leading businesses 
with considerable growth opportunities in 
large, fragmented markets. We have also 
continued to develop detailed business unit 
strategies with the objective of accelerating 
proﬁtable growth in these businesses. 
This is now working well, although outside 
of the USA where market conditions have 
been much slower to recover, we have not 
made enough progress to date.
In each country our management teams 
have signiﬁcant opportunity to develop 
our businesses depending on market 
conditions. In the USA, for example, 
where the market has been growing, this 
year we have continued to drive above 
market revenue growth and gross margin 
improvements. However, in the Nordic 
region, Central Europe and France, where 
markets have been tough, we are focusing 
on holding market share and protecting 
gross margins and controlling operating 
costs tightly. We are working very hard to 
improve customer service to gain a greater 
share of our existing customers’ business. 
We are also looking at ways to improve how 
we manage our sales teams to win new 
customers and to provide a more responsive 
service to our existing customers. 
3
See pages 14 to 17 for more about our 
progress accelerating proﬁtable growth
Investment
This year we have stepped up capital 
investment to a total of £201 million 
(2012/13: £140 million), a signiﬁcant 
proportion of which was invested in the 
development of more efﬁcient business 
models. This has included new distribution 
centres and distribution hubs to support 
our expansion plans. We have also invested 
in the branch network, including 26 new 
branches, supporting showroom expansion 
and branch refurbishments. You can read 
more about our progress in this important 
element of our strategy on pages 18 to 25.
All of our businesses are developing 
technology, process and network 
infrastructure to help us become more 
productive. This year this included the 
successful implementation of new core 
ﬁnancial systems in the UK, a new European 
data centre, major telecoms and network 
upgrades in the UK and the USA and 
master data and middleware projects to 
support our business model development 
initiatives. In 2014/15, we expect capital 
expenditure to be in the region of 
£200 million to £220 million as we continue 
to invest in these transformational projects. 
In summary 
Strong results and 
excellent cash generation
Eight bolt-on acquisitions 
completed
Signiﬁcant investment 
in new business 
models, technology 
and infrastructure
Delivering our strategy to drive 
strong results
Group Chief Executive’s review Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information
The associated incremental operating 
costs will be approximately £30 million. 
Shareholders rightly expect our investments 
to generate appropriate returns and this is 
assessed as part of a rigorous investment 
appraisal process. It is also worth bearing 
in mind that some projects are updating 
systems infrastructure, which will support 
the business for many years to come.
4
See pages 18 to 25 for more about our 
investment in new business models
Bolt-on acquisitions 
and disposals
As well as organic expansion we have 
many opportunities to deploy capital on 
bolt-on acquisitions. During the year, we 
acquired eight businesses with annualised 
revenue of £444 million. These were small 
bolt-ons in our existing geographies that 
will be integrated rapidly into our strong 
businesses to yield good cost synergies 
and deliver attractive returns. We would 
expect that in the coming year we will be 
able to invest £200 million to £300 million on 
acquisitions. However, we will only acquire 
businesses which are appropriately priced 
and clearly support our strategic objectives. 
At the same time, we will also maintain a 
conservative, but efﬁcient, balance sheet, 
with investment grade credit metrics. 
During the year we announced the exit of 
the Cheapy DIY business in Sweden and 
the ÖAG plumbing and heating business in 
Austria. In addition, we recently announced 
that we are reviewing exit options for the 
future of the ISB wood solutions business 
in France.
See pages 26 to 35 for more about this 
year’s acquisitions
Sustainability
We have made good progress in 
several components of the sustainability 
programme this year. A robust health and 
safety programme protects our workforce, 
whilst improving productivity and we made 
good progress reducing our lost workday 
rate by 2.8 per cent. However, the vehicle 
collision rate increased slightly by 0.2 per 
cent this year and that is disappointing. 
We have mitigating actions in place to deliver 
a better performance going forward. 
Over the last two years Wolseley has also 
succeeded in reducing carbon emissions 
by 7 .3 per cent and the tonnage of waste 
sent to landﬁll by 18.0 per cent (both per 
£ million of revenue generated). In order 
to achieve this, the businesses have 
implemented many projects, not least an 
8,000 solar panel installation on the roof of 
our largest distribution centre in the UK in 
Royal Leamington Spa, which will more than 
account for its power needs and achieve 
carbon savings of around 1,280 tonnes 
a year. 
See pages 48 to 53 for more about our 
sustainability programme
Looking ahead
The overall like-for-like revenue growth rate 
for the Group since the beginning of the new 
ﬁnancial year has been broadly in line with 
the fourth quarter of 2013/14. 
Overall we expect the Group’s like-for-like 
revenue growth rate for the ﬁrst six months 
of the new ﬁnancial year to be about 
5 per cent.
Our people
Our achievements are, of course, down to 
the people who work for Wolseley. So on 
behalf of the Executive team I would like 
to thank all of my Wolseley colleagues for 
their continued dedication and commitment 
to our customers. We have much work to 
do in the years ahead, but we continue 
to approach this with a growing sense of 
optimism and an absolute sense of purpose.
Ian Meakins  
Group Chief Executive
