 04
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
Delivering shareholder value
I am pleased to present my ﬁrst statement to shareholders as 
Chairman of Wolseley and to report on a year of substantial 
progress across the Group. A return to like-for-like revenue 
growth, together with a continuing focus on improving 
customer service, cash generation, cost reduction and 
margin protection have produced a strong set of results 
despite a weak economic climate. Our Executive team, led 
by Ian Meakins, has also made robust and encouraging 
progress during the year on strategic initiatives, in particular 
in refocusing Wolseley on those businesses where we have 
or can create leading market positions. Several disposals 
of non-core businesses have been announced in the year. 
At the same time, in the core business the leadership teams 
have continued to impose greater rigour on the management 
and execution of strategy at the business unit level, which 
will serve us well in the future.
Group results
I am particularly pleased to report a strong set of ﬁnancial 
results for 2010/11. Like-for-like revenue growth for the year 
ended 31 July 2011 was 5 per cent and headline earnings per 
share was strongly ahead at 142.9 pence (2010: 74.1 pence). 
We continue to place a high degree of emphasis on generating 
cash. Our balance sheet remains strong and our adjusted 
net debt position at 31 July 2011 improved by £490 million 
to £705 million.
Dividend
In view of the Group’s improved prospects and strengthened 
ﬁnancial position, the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend 
of 30 pence per share. Together with an interim dividend of 
15 pence per share paid in May 2011, the total dividend for 
ﬁnancial year 2010/11 will amount to 45 pence per share, 
costing £127 million. Our policy is to grow the dividend over 
time, taking into account the signiﬁcant opportunities for 
investment in proﬁtable organic growth and selected bolt-on 
acquisitions. The Group will continue to target adjusted net 
debt in the range of 1x and 2x EBITDA, consistent with 
investment grade credit metrics.
In summary
Strong ﬁnancial results.
Dividend reinstated.
Successful redomiciliation to Switzerland.
Board refreshed with three new 
appointments.
For our Corporate governance report  
see page 56 05
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
Redomiciliation to Switzerland
In November 2010, we completed the incorporation of 
Wolseley plc in Jersey, a new holding company for the 
Group, tax resident in Switzerland, which has a less complex 
and more certain system of taxation compared to the UK. 
The business case for redomiciling was compelling and the 
Board felt strongly that action was required to keep the 
Group’s effective tax rate competitive and that the action 
was in the best interests of shareholders. The redomiciliation 
does not make any substantive changes to our corporate 
governance or to any existing investor protection measures, 
nor has it had any adverse tax implications for shareholders. 
I am conscious of the UK coalition Government’s publicly 
stated desire to simplify UK tax law as it applies to 
multinational corporations such as Wolseley, and the Board 
will keep the Company’s position under review should the UK 
tax environment change materially.
Governance
The Board is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance. It recognises that it is accountable 
to the Company’s shareholders for good governance, 
to facilitate efﬁcient and effective management in order 
to deliver shareholder value over the long term, within 
appropriately established risk parameters. The Directors, 
both individually and collectively, take governance seriously 
and I am satisﬁed, as borne out again by this year’s Board 
review, that our Board operates effectively, is properly 
engaged on critical matters and that all Directors set 
aside the time required to fulﬁl their duties. Following the 
redomiciliation to Switzerland, a new meeting schedule 
was developed for the Board and its Committees, which 
has resulted in higher quality discussion of the issues facing 
the business. Further details are outlined on pages 56 to 70. 
Board changes
I have also reviewed the composition of the Board with the 
Nominations Committee and we have refreshed the team with 
three new Non Executive Directors. I am conﬁdent that these 
appointments will ensure that the Board continues to operate 
with a broad and diverse range of complementary skills and 
specialised knowledge to take the Company forward. 
In November 2010, following the redomiciliation, Alain Le Goff 
stepped down from the Board as a Non Executive Director. 
The Board and I were sorry to see Alain leave and we wish 
him well for the future. 
In January 2011, John Whybrow retired as Chairman having 
served nearly 13 years as a Non Executive Director, eight 
of which were as Wolseley Chairman. John steered the 
Company and the Board through a time of considerable 
change and we thank him for his steadfast leadership 
and his wise counsel. We wish him well for his retirement. 
At the same time Nigel Stein also stepped down as a Non 
Executive Director as a result of his increasing commitments 
as Chief Executive of GKN plc and President of the Society 
of Motor Manufacturers and Traders. He was a valued 
colleague and we wish him continued success. Andy Duff 
has assumed responsibility as the Company’s Senior 
Independent Director.
In March 2011, Tessa Bamford and Michael Clarke joined 
the Board as Non Executive Directors. Tessa is a Consultant 
at search ﬁrm Spencer Stuart and is also a Non Executive 
Director of Barratt Developments plc. Michael was recently 
appointed as Chief Executive of Premier Foods Plc and was 
previously President of Kraft Foods, Europe. We recently 
announced that Karen Witts will join the Board as a 
Non Executive Director, she brings with her tremendous 
experience in senior ﬁnance roles at Vodafone and BT. 
The Board and I welcome the ﬁndings of the Davies Report 
“Women on Boards” which recommends that targets are set 
for the appointment of women to Boards and Executive 
Committees. Our recent appointments to the Board 
mean that we are substantially in line with Lord Davies’ 
recommendations. Our objective here is to deliver an 
optimum level of skills and experience to lead the Company 
in its future developments. We also continue to put a 
signiﬁcant effort into succession planning for Executives, 
Non Executive Directors and all senior management. 
People
Lastly and most importantly, I would like to thank all our 
employees and pay tribute to their dedication, professionalism 
and loyalty to Wolseley; they have delivered a very good set 
of results for our shareholders. As a service business, at 
Wolseley our people really do make all the difference. 
Gareth Davis  
Chairman
