 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
07 Chairman’s statement
Staying ahead
An international group
committed to improving
performance
Chairman’s statement
Whilst we continued our record of substantial organic
growth, especially in the US, we also recorded our
highest-ever spend on acquisitions in 2005/6. Added
to this, shortly before the financial year closed, 
we agreed to buy, subject to competition approval, 
DT Group, the Nordic region’s leading distributor of
building materials. The Board is delighted with this
acquisition, particularly as it demonstrates our clear
commitment to the European business while also
delivering an excellent balance between our operations
in North America and Europe.
There has been a marked shift in the characteristics 
of the Group in recent years. Wolseley is now a
genuinely international company, with leadership 
from the corporate centre complemented by talented
management throughout the European and North
American organisations, ably supported by high quality
teams in the operating companies.
Organisational culture has evolved to reflect the
Group’s increasingly international position. Today, 
our managers across the world identify with the
Wolseley name. They remain committed to improving
the performance of their own operating companies, 
but they also recognise the opportunities available
internationally.
We now, therefore, have a Group where the sum of
the parts is truly greater than the individual components.
We have established significant leadership capabilities
both centrally and regionally in areas such as IT,
Procurement, Human Resources, Mergers &
Acquisitions and Strategy, supporting not only our
ongoing businesses, but also increasing our capability
to add value to acquisitions going forward.
Further, two successful debt issues confirmed
Wolseley’ s status as a soundly financed, well-
respected international group. In November 2005, 
the Group completed the largest ever US$ Private
Placement, followed by a bank syndication in May
2006 which was heavily over-subscribed by Wolseley’s
relationship banks.
Dividend
With our earnings per share before intangibles rising
19.7% to 98.9 pence, the Board is recommending a
final dividend of 19.55 pence, which represents a total
dividend for the year of 29.4 pence. This is an increase
of 11.4% over the total dividend paid last year.
The Board
The handover of Group Chief Executive responsibilities
from Charlie Banks to Chip Hornsby proceeded to
plan, with Chip being succeeded by Frank Roach 
as Chief Executive, North America. Frank joined the
Board in December 2005 and has already made a
significant contribution to our deliberations.
I would like to thank Charlie Banks not only for 
the efficient handover but also for the leadership,
experience and good humour he displayed throughout
his five years as Group Chief Executive. Charlie made
a major contribution to the Group and during his 
time at the helm we witnessed a marked change 
in management mindset to a more international
perspective. We saw Group sales rise by 96.8% 
and the share price by 144%. I, and the whole Board,
wish him every happiness in retirement.
Chip Hornsby has made an excellent start as Group
Chief Executive and I look forward to working closely
with him in the coming years. He spent the first three
months of this calendar year building on his already
solid knowledge of our European businesses and the
following three months acquainting himself with matters
at the Corporate level.
As Chip makes clear elsewhere in this Report,
Wolseley has delivered excellent performances 
over many years – but now it is time to encourage 
a step-change and to push forward to fully realise
Wolseley’s true potential.
In conclusion, I wish to thank our customers, 
suppliers, investors and debt providers for their
unswerving support over the last year. But of course
the year’s achievements would not have been possible
without the skills and unyielding commitment of 
more than 70,000 people and to each of them I
extend our wholehearted thanks.
The Board looks ahead with confidence. The proven
strategy we have followed in recent times will continue,
sustaining our record of growth and business
development. We have achieved a great deal, but
there remains much to do. The Board is confident that
Chip and his team will lead Wolseley to new and even
greater heights.
John W Whybrow
Chairman
WO40006_R&A 2006_01-19  10/10/06  10:09 pm  Page 07
