 02 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
In my last year as Chairman I am delighted 
to report that as we begin to emerge from 
the extremely difﬁcult market environment of 
the last three years, your Company is well 
positioned to exploit the opportunities that lie 
ahead. The organisation looks to the future 
with increasing conﬁdence and an enthusiasm 
to develop our strong local market positions 
working from the foundation of a low cost base 
and strong, focused leadership. Last year was 
again difﬁcult, starting with a weak declining 
market which has only begun to show signs 
of stability, and in some cases recovery, in the 
last few months.
Group results
This is clearly reﬂected in the results for the year 
with Group revenue for the 12 months to 31 July 
2010, down 9 per cent to £13.2 billion, and 
earnings per share before exceptional items 
and amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangibles down 22 per cent to 74.1 pence. 
We have continued to manage the cost base 
actively to minimise the effects of the recession 
on the Group’s results and during the year 
headcount was reduced by a further 3,400 and 
220 branches were closed. We have also taken 
ﬁrm action to exit those businesses where we 
do not see future value creation potential.
We continue to place a high degree of emphasis 
on cash generation and, in particular, driving 
improvements in working capital. This is 
reﬂected in a strong free cash ﬂow performance 
of £660 million (2009: £851 million). Our net 
debt position at 31 July 2010 improved by 
£613 million to £346 million.
Further, I am pleased to report that Wolseley 
exits the ﬁnancial year in a strong position in 
terms of its balance sheet, its assets and its 
people. That strength is in no small part due to 
the period of critical self-examination we have 
undergone as a business this year. The resulting 
strategy crafted by our new Chief Executive, 
Ian Meakins and his team, endorsed by the 
Board, is already bearing fruit and has put 
us in a much stronger position to weather the 
remainder of the recession and look forward 
to the future with great optimism. 
Ian got to grips with the business very quickly. 
He spent time reviewing the management 
structure and the future planning required to 
take the Company forward. He has drive and 
energy and a passion for operational excellence 
and delivery. It is through his leadership that I 
see a new conﬁdence in our people. The Board 
is fully supportive of Ian’s approach of focusing 
future growth on those Wolseley businesses 
where we have built sufﬁcient scale, leading 
market positions and an excellent product 
offering. He has also introduced greater rigour 
in how we drive performance improvement and 
the execution of strategy at the business unit 
level, which will serve us well in the future. 
This approach is set out by Ian in his review 
on pages 4 to 5.
Redomicile to Switzerland
In September, we announced a proposal to 
change the corporate structure of the Group. 
This will create a new holding company which 
is UK-listed, incorporated in Jersey with its tax 
residence in Switzerland. I want to emphasise 
that this proposal will not make any substantive 
change to corporate governance or to any 
existing investor protection measures, nor 
will it have any adverse tax implications 
for shareholders. It does not change Wolseley’s 
business strategy, or the day-to-day conduct of 
our businesses, including in the UK. In addition, 
the tax position of the UK businesses will remain 
unchanged.
The organisation looks to the future with increasing 
conﬁdence and an enthusiasm to develop our strong 
local market positions working from the foundation  
of a low cost base and strong, focused leadership.
Chairman’s statement
Revenue
£13.2bn
−9%
Trading proﬁt
£450m
Net debt
£346m
–£61 3m Wolseley plc 03
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report – Business review
Directors’ report – Corporate governance
Financial statements
Other information
However, the proposed move is intended to 
provide a more stable tax regime for our 
international business and the Board feels 
strongly that it would be delinquent in its duty to 
shareholders if it ignored the strong business 
case for redomiciling and thereby keeping the 
Group’s effective tax rate competitive. As I write, 
I am conscious of the new coalition Government’s 
publicly stated desire to simplify UK tax law as 
it applies to multinational corporations such as 
Wolseley, and naturally the Board will keep this 
under review.
Governance
As we do each year, the Board reviewed its 
effectiveness and the overall strength of the 
governance and controls framework of the 
Company. It took the opportunity to streamline 
and verify some of the Company’s policies 
and procedures and to refocus its time and 
attention on material strategic and operational 
improvements designed to further improve the 
efﬁciency of decision-making.
Dividend
The Board understands the importance of the 
dividend to investors and we have announced 
our intention to resume paying a dividend during 
the 2011 ﬁnancial year.
Board changes
In March, Steve Webster stepped down as 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (CFO) and John Martin 
was appointed by the Board as his successor 
in April. John brings a wealth of operational 
experience from Travelex Group and Hays plc 
and is already showing himself as a highly 
capable CFO. I am conﬁdent his experience  
will be of great beneﬁt to Wolseley. 
Rob Marchbank, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Europe, left the Company in March following the 
reorganisation of our European businesses. 
I would like to take this opportunity to wish both 
Steve and Rob well and thank them for their 
signiﬁcant contribution to the success of the 
Company. 
As previously announced, Jim Murray, Non 
Executive Director and former Chairman of the 
Audit Committee will retire from the Board on  
30 September. I wish him well in his retirement.
Now I come to my own retirement. I do this with 
great sadness because it has been a privilege to 
be associated with this very special Company. 
However, after nearly 13 years on the Board, 
including eight as Chairman, and now with 
a new Executive team in place with a clear 
strategy to deliver future proﬁtable growth, 
it seems right to hand over to someone else. 
I do so knowing that my successor, Gareth Davis, 
was an outstanding CEO of some 14 years’ 
standing at Imperial Tobacco plc, is well 
respected in the City and has a strong track 
record of creating value. 
Wolseley today is now a very different Company 
to the one I ﬁrst chaired, and is well placed to 
continue to enjoy an exciting and proﬁtable 
future. I wish everyone at the Company the very 
best and thank you all for your support during 
the last eight years as your Chairman.
Finally I would, of course, like to pay tribute 
to Wolseley’s 47 ,000 people who work in 
25 countries around the world. As a service 
business we are wholly dependent on their 
skills and imagination to service our customers 
every day.
John Whybrow
Chairman
