 06
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In summary…
Strong ﬁnancial 
results and cash 
generation.
Further clariﬁcation 
of our strategy and 
business model.
Increased total 
dividend to 60p 
(2010/11: 45p).
Proposed capital 
return of £350 million.
Chairman’s statement
Results and strategy
I am pleased to report another year of 
progress for Wolseley in which we have 
delivered improved trading proﬁt and strong 
free cash ﬂow generation. We have achieved 
this against a tough economic backdrop, 
particularly in Continental Europe, and I am 
immensely proud of the hard work and 
commitment to achieving these goals shown 
by my colleagues around the Group. 
Our fundamental strategy is unchanged 
and our core focus remains on delivering 
shareholder value from our strength and 
the signiﬁcant growth opportunities in the 
distribution of plumbing and heating and 
building materials. Since Ian Meakins was 
appointed as Group Chief Executive three 
years ago, he and his Executive team have 
made excellent progress in refocusing 
Wolseley through top-down resource 
allocation on those businesses where we 
have or can create market leading positions. 
Our objective is to improve and expand 
our market leading businesses through 
execution of bottom-up business unit 
strategies to make sure we grow these 
businesses faster than the competition. 
A number of disposals of non-core 
businesses have been made, which 
allow us to focus all our resources on our 
strategically strong businesses. I am pleased 
to say that we are broadly at the end of the 
major disposal process and today 86 per 
cent of Wolseley revenue comes from 
businesses which are either number one 
or number two in their markets. We have 
also continued to place a great deal of 
emphasis on strong cash generation and 
our balance sheet remains one of the 
strongest in the industry. During the year we 
completed the deleveraging of the business 
with net cash of £45 million at 31 July 2012 
(31 July 2011: net debt of £523 million). 
Our ﬁnancial strength will stand us in 
good stead in these uncertain times.
An important theme of the past year has 
been the further work undertaken by the 
Executive and the Board in reﬁning our 
strategy and its execution. In particular, 
in each country we are now beginning to 
deﬁne more precisely the inherent strengths 
of our business models which drive 
competitive advantage in our local markets. 
Over the medium term we will progressively 
move our business units to a local service 
common process business model, with 
core processes being developed to 
achieve beneﬁts of scale, productivity and 
efﬁciencies. You can read more about our 
progress in Ian’s review on pages 8 to 11.
Dividend increase
Our commitment to creating shareholder 
value remains strong. This year, we rebased 
our dividend with an interim dividend 
increase of 33 per cent. The Board is now 
proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 40 pence 
(2010/11: 30 pence) for payment on 
30 November 2012. This brings the total 
dividend for 2012 to 60 pence (2010/11: 
45 pence) costing £172 million, which is 
a year on year increase of 33 per cent.
Special dividend
The Board is committed to a progressive 
dividend policy. 
During the year, cash proceeds from the sale 
of businesses and other assets amounted to 
£317 million. These proceeds are surplus to 
the reinvestment requirement of the Group 
and therefore, in line with the Company’s 
policy, we are proposing a special dividend 
Our strategy is 
unchanged and our 
core focus remains 
on delivering 
shareholder value.” 07
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information
Corporate governance 
See page 62
Our clear strategy, 
focused set of 
market leading 
businesses and 
strong balance 
sheet will enable 
further progress.”
to shareholders of £350 million which is 
expected to be paid in December. The 
special dividend and associated share 
consolidation will be subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM on 29 November 2012.
Governance, Board 
composition and changes
Central to the effective management of the 
business and maintaining the conﬁdence 
of our shareholders are high standards of 
corporate governance. As Chairman, I seek 
to ensure that the Board is as effective as 
possible and I believe strongly that this is 
the case. An externally facilitated Board 
evaluation was conducted this year, in line 
with the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. This year’s third party 
review indicated that the Board and its 
Committees are operating effectively to high 
standards of governance. It found that the 
Board had an open and transparent style 
of discussion, with good engagement and 
contribution from all members, particularly 
on strategic planning and risk management. 
A more detailed overview of the evaluation 
process, together with details of the 
outcomes and actions to be taken, 
are discussed further on page 72.
During the year, the Board and I (through 
the Nominations Committee) gave a great 
deal of attention to its future composition, 
with an emphasis both on executive and 
non-executive succession planning. This 
took into account the tenure of Andrew Duff, 
our Senior Independent Director and 
Remuneration Committee Chairman, which 
we expect will come to an end in 2013. 
We have identiﬁed the balance of skills, 
experience, capabilities, independence, 
diversity and knowledge required on the 
Board and its Committees against which 
future appointments will be made. 
The Board composition today provides 
a balance of operational expertise, deep 
knowledge of our principal end markets, 
and City and ﬁnancial experience. As 
mentioned last year, we welcomed the 
ﬁndings and recommendations of Lord 
Davies’ report, “Women on Boards”. 
At this time, we have one woman on the 
Board, Tessa Bamford, due to the recent 
departure of Karen Witts. In light of her 
recent appointment as Finance Director of 
Kingﬁsher plc, Karen stepped down from 
the Board in order to avoid any risk of a 
conﬂict of interest. We thank her for her 
contribution to the Board and wish her well 
in her new role.
As a result, there are likely to be further 
changes to the Board through 2012 and 
2013. We will continue to refresh the team 
to ensure it operates with a broad and 
diverse range of complementary skills and 
specialised knowledge to take the Company 
forward. We shall always consider the 
beneﬁts of greater diversity while ensuring 
that the best person is recruited to the 
relevant role.
People
It is important to thank all our employees 
whose tremendous hard work has been 
the driving force behind our performance. 
Wolseley is very much a people business 
and success is absolutely a team effort. 
As you will see in the following pages, the 
overall theme of this year’s annual report is 
‘Best customer service, every day’ and the 
strong service ethic of our people and their 
dedication to serving our customers well is 
central to the delivery of our strategy.
As we look to the future, concerns over 
the health of many of the world’s major 
economies continue. It is difﬁcult to predict 
how strong these economic headwinds 
could become, but we approach 2012/13 
with the conﬁdence that our clear strategy, 
focused set of market leading businesses 
and strong balance sheet will enable further 
progress. I believe that challenges will 
present opportunities and that Wolseley 
is well placed to make the most of them. 
Gareth Davis  
Chairman
