 Group Chief Executive’s review 05
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Overview
We are now entering the third
financial year where macro-
economic conditions have
continued to have a profound
impact on our industry and
consequently the Group’s
financial results. In fact, in 
many ways, the current cycle
reflects some of the toughest
market conditions that I have
seen in my 30 years in the
construction industry.
There are no signs of any immediate 
upturn in our principal markets and the
constraints on liquidity in global financial
markets, which are driving the cyclical
downturn, show no signs of abating. With
this in mind, our focus within the current
environment remains unchanged and has
been firmly on the areas we can continue
to influence – aggressive cost reduction
and cash flow enhancement. 
We are resolute in our determination to
take the appropriate action to position the
business to respond to the current market
conditions. We will drive our business hard,
take the necessary decisions to lower our
cost base and continue to generate strong
cash flow to further reduce net debt. In
doing this, I strongly believe we will be
better placed for the challenges ahead 
and to benefit from the market recovery
when it occurs.
Group results
Our results this year have continued to
reflect the deteriorating US housing market
and reducing consumer confidence arising
from global credit restrictions. While the
principal effects of the liquidity squeeze
have continued to be felt by the US
consumer during 2008, in the second half
of the financial year we have increasingly
started to see the deterioration of market
conditions across Europe. After currency
translation, Group revenue increased by 
2 per cent to £16,549 million (2007:
£16,221 million) although trading profit
reduced by 22 per cent to £683 million
(2007: £877 million), before charging £76
million of exceptional restructuring costs. 
In North America, in addition to the impact
of the deteriorating US housing and repairs,
maintenance and improvement (‘RMI’)
markets, the results were adversely
affected by price deflation in lumber and
panels and the weakness of the dollar.
However, the US commercial and industrial
markets have remained stable. The Group’s
European division achieved revenue growth
although profits declined, reflecting a rapid
deterioration in market conditions in the 
UK in the final three months of the financial
year and a softening in many other
European markets. 
Despite the lower profitability, operating
cash flow performance was strong at
£1,262 million (2007: £1,299 million)
reflecting increased focus by the Group 
in this area over the past two years. We
have established aggressive improvement
targets for each business in inventory,
receivables and payables and intend 
to keep all of our operating companies
focused on keeping up the momentum. 
Further details of market conditions 
and financial performance in each of 
the Group’s businesses are set out in the
Performance review on pages 10 to 31.
Actions to cut costs and reduce 
net debt
During the year we have remained focused
on positioning Wolseley to meet the
challenges created by the increasingly
difficult market conditions. Throughout this
period we have also remained cognisant 
of the need to ensure the Group remains
compliant with its borrowing covenants,
which require net debt to be less than 
3.5 times annualised EBITDA, before
exceptional items. At 31 July 2008, net
debt to EBITDA (before exceptional items)
was 2.7 times EBITDA, which was well
within the Company’s agreed covenants. 
We will continue to take the necessary
action to preserve cash and reduce
overheads in order to protect our profit
position, while at the same time, generating
cash to reduce our debt. We have a
number of contingency plans in place 
to ensure continued compliance with 
our banking covenants should markets
deteriorate further. 
Since the year-end, additional actions 
have been taken which include further
restructuring and streamlining of
management in key businesses, driving 
our working capital even harder, limited
asset disposals and curtailment of some
planned capital expenditure over the next
12 months. I would like to stress that 
our actions will continue to be designed 
to achieve the best long-term value for 
the Group, ensuring that our strategic
objectives are not compromised and 
that infrastructure is protected. 
The key actions taken during the year and
since the year-end are as set out below:
1. Cost cutting
Annualised savings of £176 million are
expected from business improvement
initiatives and actions taken to reduce
headcount by 7,100 and close 270
branches. To achieve these savings, the
Group incurred £76 million of exceptional
restructuring costs in the year ended 
31 July 2008. The 2008 results benefited
by around £47 million of these savings. 
Since 1 August 2008, another 600 
people have left the Group. Further plans
are in the process of being developed 
to carry out additional restructuring 
and cost reductions. In particular, a
fundamental review is currently being
undertaken to reduce Stock’s impact 
on the Group’s results.
2. Cash flow and debt
The rigorous focus on cash flow
continues, with further improvements 
in working capital ratios. Spot cash to
cash days improved by 5.9 days (11.4 
per cent), from 51.8 days at 31 July 2007
to 45.9 days at 31 July 2008. This reflects
an improvement of 30 per cent in working
capital days over the last two years. The
benefits of the distribution centre (‘DC’)
network have helped Ferguson Enterprises
(‘Ferguson’) to reduce inventory by 
23.4 days (30 per cent) in the past two
years, while improving service levels to
customers. In Europe, cash to cash days
improved significantly by 13.6 days to
30.9 days (2007: 44.5 days), reflecting 
a 15.1 days improvement in the UK, 
11.6 days improvement in France and 
5.6 days improvement in Central and
Eastern Europe (‘C&EE’), as a direct 
result of the focus and initiatives to
improve working capital during the year.
These working capital reductions have
been achieved without compromising
customer service levels. In July 2008,
Wolseley France entered into a receivables
factoring arrangement which reduced 
net debt at 31 July 2008, by £74 million.
The additional cost of servicing this
arrangement is expected to be £2 million
per annum. An additional factoring facility
has been agreed by Wolseley France
since the year end, reducing net debt by 
a further £78 million, the incremental cost
of which is £3 million. 
Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 
Group Chief Executive’s review
WO40011_R&A_01-09  3/10/08  14:42  Page 05 06 Group Chief Executive’s review
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Cash conversion was up at 185 per cent,
compared to 148 per cent in the prior year.
The Group is targeting an improvement of
more than 10 per cent in working capital
cash to cash days in 2009, excluding the
effect of receivables factoring. 
Net debt was relatively unchanged at
£2,469 million (2007: £2,467 million) despite
an adverse currency translation impact 
of £321 million, due to collective actions
taken to drive working capital improvement,
curtail capital expenditure and acquisitions
and to make selective business and asset
disposals. Gearing was 73.5 per cent
compared to 71.5 per cent in July 2007
and 83.9 per cent in January 2008. 
The Group has committed and undrawn
banking facilities available of £1.2 billion 
as at 31 July 2008 and has no need for
additional facilities until after the year 
ended 31 July 2011.
3. Capital expenditure and acquisitions
The Group continues to adopt a highly
selective approach to acquisitions with 
no further transactions completed since 
the interim results announcement in 
March 2008. As previously indicated,
capital expenditure plans have also been
curtailed. Capital expenditure for the year
ended 31 July 2008 was £317 million
(2007: £396 million), compared to an
original estimate of £500 million, as all
capital expenditure across the Group 
was carefully scrutinised and non-essential
projects, such as branch openings,
refurbishments, and other infrastructure
projects, were postponed. 
Capital expenditure for the year ended 
31 July 2009 is expected to be further
reduced to around £180 million. This
follows the decision to continue to defer
non-essential works and also to slow down
the deployment of the Group’s Business
Change Programme to conserve cash 
and to avoid business disruption in current
difficult markets. Following the recent
implementation in Switzerland, no further
roll-out will take place in C&EE in 2009
and, as a consequence, the shared central
services centre in Brno, Czech Republic 
will close. Plans to begin implementation 
of the programme across Canada and
extend the pilots in Ferguson are also 
being deferred. These delays have resulted
in an impairment charge of £15 million being
incurred in the year ended 31 July 2008,
with £12 million related to C&EE and 
£3 million to central costs.
We remain absolutely committed to the
long-term delivery of the Business Change
Programme. Longer term, the programme
will continue to play a fundamental role in
enabling us to achieve the organisation’s
strategy and increase our long-term
competitive advantage. Specifically, the
programme which will result in a common
IT platform for the Group will improve
working capital efficiencies, and deliver
more efficient business processes and
better quality information, which will allow
us greater insight into our business, our
suppliers and, of course, our customers. 
4. Asset disposals – property, plant,
equipment and businesses
Wolseley continues to actively manage 
its portfolio of more than 900 properties
and, where it makes financial sense,
routinely enters into sale and leaseback
arrangements or makes disposals. As a
result, property, plant and equipment was
sold for £84 million during the financial 
year, realising a profit of £16 million (2007:
£62 million, with a profit of £27 million).
Since the year end, a further eight
Ferguson properties have been sold for
£43 million, with a profit of £11 million.
Three peripheral businesses that were 
not strategic to Wolseley were disposed 
of in the year ended 31 July 2008, for a
consideration of £18 million. An additional
£3 million has been realised since the 
year end. 
Group strategy
While our short-term priority must remain
on the cost base, it is critical we do not
lose sight of the need to continue to build
our long-term business model. However,
this year we have needed to strike an
appropriate balance between continuing 
to take the necessary short-term actions
commensurate with the market conditions
we face, while maintaining the momentum
of driving our long-term strategy to build 
a truly world class company.
The Group continues to place a great deal
of emphasis on the ‘Earn, Turn, Grow’
initiative which is now in its second year of
operation. The programme has established
priorities for each business on margin
enhancement, strong cash flow generation
and growth. This initiative has been widely
communicated across the Group with 
clear objectives at the individual, branch,
business and Group levels. Remuneration
is also being linked to performance
measured against each area of focus. 
The continued success of the programme
was evidenced this year by the Group’s
strong cash flow performance. The
objective of the ‘Earn, Turn, Grow’ initiative
is to provide a framework for driving
improved performance and expectations
across the Group. This year there will be
continued emphasis on further enhancing
working capital performance and increasing
cash flow generation. 
Group Chief Executive’s review
WO40011_R&A_01-09  3/10/08  14:42  Page 06 Group Chief Executive’s review 07
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Where appropriate, we continue to
selectively invest in our business and 
will work to increase our competitive
advantage. We aim to deliver purchasing
and sourcing opportunities that our
competitors find hard to replicate. For
example, during the year we added to 
the DC capacity opening new facilities in
Chorley, UK and Stockton, USA. In France,
the national DC which opened at the end
of last year in Orléans is now operating 
at very high service levels of more than 
97 per cent. This has led to reduced
inventory and it has also recently started to
distribute plumbing and heating products.
Elsewhere this year we have rationalised
the supply chain in the UK, closing surplus
warehouse facilities. We are now also
seeing increased efficiencies at the national
DC in Leamington Spa.
An example of the competitive advantage
the DC network brings was highlighted this
year in the retention, by Wolseley UK, of an
important contract with one of its largest
customers, British Gas. For over 25 years,
Wolseley has supplied the energy company
with boilers, radiators and parts to install
and maintain domestic heating systems.
Recently Wolseley won more business 
from British Gas following their decision 
to reduce suppliers from three to two. 
An innovative, centralised solution was
devised, with deliveries direct to customers
from dedicated ‘branches’ within two DCs
– replacing a decentralised branch-based
system. This was especially important as
British Gas has grown in the installation
market and has ambitious plans for the
future. Wolseley’s distribution network
utilisation is a key competitive advantage
and differentiator in the marketplace.
Sourcing also continues to be a major
source of competitive advantage and 
this year Wolseley North America (‘WNA’)
launched a private label range that has
been hugely successful. Wolseley acquired
the handtools brand ‘Raptor’ through the
acquisition of DT Group in September
2006, which is an established private label
brand within their DIY business, Silvan in
Denmark. WNA launched a new range of
Raptor tools geared for the North American
market in February of this year, which
includes over 160 stock keeping units
(SKUs) and is already generating significant
sales and profits since its introduction.
Raptor has now been launched in over
1,300 Wolseley locations across North
America and shares some of the same
global sources as DT Group, allowing 
us to leverage our supplier relationships.
Corporate responsibility
With the future firmly in mind, we will 
place greater emphasis on corporate
responsibility (‘CR’) and our vision is to 
be one of the most trusted companies in
the markets in which we operate. We take
our responsibilities seriously. Issues such 
as the health and safety of our employees
and customers and minimising the Group’s
adverse contribution to climate change 
are important subjects for the Board, 
and for me personally. 
Our CR strategy to support this is outlined
in a five-year programme which sets 
out our principal areas of focus, helps us
define our priorities as an organisation and
to all our stakeholders. We recognise we
are on a journey. As ever, some of our
operating companies have shown excellent
improvements this year and the challenge
is to instil a culture of best practice and
continuous improvement throughout the
Group. You can read about our progress
this year and our aspirations for the future
in the CR report on pages 32 to 39. 
Summary
We have continued to make good
progress this year in what has been 
an extremely challenging period for 
the Group with many of our businesses
continuing to gain market share. In the
short term we remain very focused 
on aggressive cost reduction and an
unrelenting drive for cash generation. 
I remain confident in the long-term
fundamentals of our markets and also
that Wolseley will emerge from this
current downturn as a stronger
organisation, with an excellent platform
for growth. 
Chip Hornsby
Group Chief Executive
Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 
In many ways, the current cycle reflects some of 
the toughest market conditions that I have seen 
in my 30 years in the construction industry.
“
”
WO40011_R&A_01-09  3/10/08  14:42  Page 07 08 Group Chief Executive’s review
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Customers are at the heart
of our business and we
never lose sight of that
WO40011_R&A_01-09  3/10/08  14:42  Page 08 Group Chief Executive’s review 09
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 
We have a wide range of customers
operating in different industry sectors
ranging from the individual plumber or
builder through to national contractors,
house builders and large industrial and
commercial organisations.
Our primary customer focus is on
professional contractors who work 
with households, governments, 
property developers and industrial
companies in the construction of new
homes, offices and industrial buildings, 
or in the repair and maintenance of 
existing premises.
Establishing good relationships with 
our customers is critical to obtaining
ongoing and repeat business that will
secure our future success, as well as 
that of our customers’ own businesses.
WO40011_R&A_01-09  3/10/08  14:42  Page 09 Steve Webster
Chief Financial Officer
We have made 
good progress on
improving working
capital efficiency,
and the focus on
cost reduction
and cash flow
enhancement
will continue.
WO40011_R&A_10-31  3/10/08  14:43  Page 10
