 Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12
Chief Executive’s review
In summary
 Strong ﬁnancial results and cash 
generation.
 Further progress in reﬁning strategy 
and business models.
 France strategy being executed 
as set out at the half year.
 Several small in-ﬁll acquisitions 
completed in the year.
“The Group delivered a 
strong overall result 
against a backdrop of 
good market conditions 
in the USA, improving 
conditions in the UK and 
continued weak demand 
in Continental Europe.”
 Focus on performance 
and growth
The Group generated revenue of 
£12,854 million (2011/12: £12,345 million) 
4.1 per cent ahead of last year with like-for-
like growth of 2.9 per cent. Gross margin 
in the ongoing business improved to 27.8 
per cent (2011/12: 27.5 per cent) despite 
very competitive market conditions and 
underlying margins were 0.1 per cent 
ahead. Trading proﬁt of £725 million 
(2011/12: £655 million) was 10.7 per cent 
higher than last year. The trading margin 
was 30 basis points higher at 5.6 per cent. 
This year Ferguson achieved a record 
trading margin of 7.3 per cent in its 60th 
anniversary year since incorporation. 
We continue to see excellent opportunities 
to make incremental improvements to the 
business in the next few years as long as 
markets remain reasonable.
During the year we managed the balance 
sheet conservatively. Working capital 
was tightly controlled and capital 
expenditure increased to £140 million 
(2011/12: £135 million) as we funded 
organic expansion of the business. 
We continue to place a great deal 
of emphasis on driving strong cash 
generation. Operating cash ﬂow was strong 
at £633 million (2011/12: £747 million). 
Group strategy and  
business model
Our strategy remains unchanged. Our  
process of top down resource allocation 
to those businesses which have, or are 
capable of, market leadership will give 
us the best returns. In addition, through 
bottom-up detailed business unit strategies 
we will make sure we grow our best 
businesses faster than the competition. 
This parallel path of resource allocation 
and performance management is outlined 
in our value creation model. We operate 
in fragmented markets and the structural 
growth opportunity is signiﬁcant. Overview
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
Wolseley’s value creation model
Expand 
gross 
margins
Improve 
productivity
Gain  
market 
share
Improve 
returns and 
cash
p
Proﬁtable 
growth
“This year Ferguson 
achieved a record trading 
margin of 7.3 per cent 
in its 60th anniversary 
year since incorporation.”
We want to drive proﬁtable growth in each 
business unit and during the monthly 
performance reviews we review like-for-
like revenue growth, balancing this with 
a relentless focus on improving gross 
margins and keeping costs under control. 
Given the tough economic backdrop in 
some of our markets we are keeping a 
keen eye on operating costs, particularly 
where we have experienced volume 
declines. However, even where markets 
are growing and we are increasing our 
investment, we still want to ensure that 
we convert revenue growth strongly to 
trading proﬁt. 
During the year we have continued to 
reﬁne the portfolio to focus on attractive 
market positions where we believe we can 
win. At the half year results we announced 
the outcome of the strategic review of 
our activities in France. Our proposals 
included restructuring the Building 
Materials business and refocusing it as 
a regional player in the north of France 
where we have a decent scale position. 
This will be achieved through the sale of 
88 branches in the south to Chausson, a 
regional distributor. Following employee 
consultation and competition clearance in 
the summer we are now in the process of 
transferring those branches to Chausson. 
We have also agreed to collaborate in 
the future on product sourcing which will 
beneﬁt both businesses. We will retain the 
Wood Solutions business which whilst 
cyclical is proﬁtable and cash generative. 
Management responsibility was transferred 
to the Central Europe region in the year.
While organic growth remains a priority, 
we have continued to make selective in-ﬁll 
acquisitions to our existing businesses. 
These have been small in-ﬁlls so far in 
our existing geographies so we can 
integrate them rapidly into our strong 
businesses, extract the cost synergies and 
deliver attractive returns. In line with this 
approach we made six small acquisitions 
this year including: 22 Burdens branches 
in the UK, a leading utilities business; 
Power Equipment Direct, a Chicago 
based online distributor of outdoor power 
equipment; and Keramikland, a small 
Swiss sanitary business. In September 
2012, we completed the acquisition of 
Davis & Warshow, which is a leading 
plumbing distribution business in New 
York. The North East of the USA continues 
to be a signiﬁcant opportunity for regional 
expansion for the US business.
Over the past four years we have 
deleveraged the balance sheet and this 
has been achieved through a keen focus 
on cash generation. We want to maintain 
a strong balance sheet which will enable 
us to invest in both organic growth and 
in-ﬁll acquisitions while at the same time 
rewarding shareholders with an attractive 
and sustainable ordinary dividend through 
the economic cycle. Net debt at 31 July 
2013 was £411 million (31 July 2012: 
net cash of £45 million) after payment 
of the special dividend of £348 million 
on 31 December 2012. 
Reﬁning our strategy – driving 
towards a systematically 
managed branch network 
Now that we have a strong set of business 
units to invest in and build, we are 
continuing to evolve our business unit 
strategies and in doing so we are reviewing 
the business models employed by each. 
Here, our objective is always to have the 
lowest cost platform in the industry, to drive 
continuous improvement by better process 
management and to make sure that we are 
executing our processes at the right point 
in the organisation. Some processes we 
will leave very local, whilst others we will 
execute above the branch network to give 
us beneﬁts of scale. 
We are now identifying and using the best 
core processes in our most successful 
business units to derive further beneﬁts 
from a more systematic approach. Over the 
medium term this will mean gradually 
moving away from a model where all 
processes and decisions are based in 
the branch. For example, in Stockholm,  Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14
Chief Executive’s review continued
Our values
We act with 
integrity
We drive for 
results and 
improvement
We value our 
people
We conduct all our 
activities with fairness, 
honesty and integrity.
We listen and respond 
to the needs of our 
customers, then exceed 
their expectations; we are 
not happy with the status 
quo, and constantly strive 
to improve.
We understand, respect 
and value personal and 
cultural differences;  
we are open and honest 
in all our dealings with 
our people.
“Over time and as 
new technology becomes 
more freely available 
our customers are 
increasingly choosing 
how they interact 
with us.”
Sweden, this year we relocated outbound 
logistics for eight branches that would 
normally be run independently, into a 
single hub for the region. This has given 
us productivity beneﬁts by avoiding cost 
duplication, and has freed up the branches 
to concentrate on customer service. 
We are able to offer customers later 
ordering and earlier delivery times which 
they hugely value.
The evolution from a loose confederation 
to a systematically managed network will 
have a signiﬁcant impact on the ﬂexibility of 
decision-making in our branches. We will 
need to achieve greater compliance with 
our core processes in areas such as pricing 
discounts, identifying and maintaining 
core product ranges and supply chain 
programmes. We will have to achieve better 
efﬁciency from our vendor programmes 
to ensure we do get the best terms and 
there will be increased use of centralised 
sourcing processes and private label in 
speciﬁc categories. There will be more 
delivery from distribution centres, avoiding 
cost duplication. We will move to labour 
models that reﬂect the customers’ needs 
by the month, week, day and even by the 
hour rather than a set “9 to 5” plus overtime 
structure. Overall, people will transition 
from being generalists to masters of a few 
key specialist skills and this will require us 
to be more functionally skilled, for example, 
in supply chain, marketing and 24/7 IT 
support and recovery.
We will also utilise Group business models 
where they can be replicated in other 
geographies. For example, during the year 
we have taken our successful Build.com 
business to consumer (“B2C”) e-commerce 
business and, using the same business 
model approach and a common IT 
platform, launched new businesses in the 
UK and Canada. Over time, and as new 
technology such as mobile e-commerce 
becomes more freely available, our 
customers are increasingly choosing 
how they interact with us.  Overview
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
“The overall scores 
for both service and 
employee engagement 
have continued to 
improve across all 
our businesses.”
We are also building market leading 
transactional B2B e-commerce sites 
for the major geographies as we know 
customers value doing business with us 
this way. Customers don’t always want to 
make purchases face-to-face in a branch, 
particularly for everyday items, and we 
need to give them greater ﬂexibility and 
choice over how they do business with 
us. In the USA, B2B e-commerce now 
represents about 9 per cent of revenue 
and we expect this to grow signiﬁcantly 
over the next few years. This year we have 
achieved over 6.5 million self-service events 
where B2B customers have completed 
an activity online rather than directly in a 
branch or on the phone.
We are making progress in improving 
customer service and employee 
engagement in our businesses which 
we have been regularly measuring for 
several years now. The overall scores for 
both service and employee engagement 
have continued to improve across all our 
businesses. We know that at the heart 
of our business, great people are working 
very hard to provide great service to our 
customers. This allows us to generate a 
margin and ultimately a decent proﬁt and 
good returns on capital, but it is our people 
who absolutely drive this performance from 
every one of our 2,917 branches across 
the world.
We have some real strengths and the 
work we have undertaken shows us that 
we deliver excellent service in many of our 
branches. However, it also shows us areas 
of improvement down to speciﬁc branches 
and customers, which we can act upon. 
The feedback has also reinforced that 
“price” as a choice factor continues to rank 
relatively low on many customers’ priorities 
behind product availability, staff knowledge, 
next day delivery and breadth of the 
product range – showing that customers 
recognise the value of these beneﬁts and 
are willing to pay for them. This gives us 
great conﬁdence that as we continue to 
improve service we can also incrementally 
improve gross margins.
So, in summary, in making this major 
transition for Wolseley the overriding factor 
has been to ensure that the evolution of our 
business is always in service of customer 
needs. The theme of this year’s annual 
report is “listening to our customers” 
and you can see several examples of the 
innovations we are bringing to the business 
in support of this. These are outlined in the 
operating reviews on pages 26 to 37.
Corporate Responsibility
We see Corporate Responsibility as a 
reﬂection of how we want to do business 
at Wolseley. I am pleased to report excellent 
progress on a number of fronts this year 
including higher employee engagement 
scores, better controls in the management 
of our ethics programme and reductions 
in our carbon emissions and waste. 
More remains to be done and it was 
disappointing to report an increase in 
the Group’s injury and lost workday rate. 
We have set a clear path to improve our 
performance in this and other areas which 
you can read about in the Corporate 
Responsibility report on pages 48 to 63.
Our people
Finally, on behalf of the Executive team, 
I would like to thank all of my Wolseley 
colleagues for their continued contribution 
and commitment to our customers. It is 
their energy, enthusiasm, commitment and 
dedication to providing great service that 
makes Wolseley such a great company 
to work for. 
Ian Meakins  
Chief Executive Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16
Listening to our customers
I want to spend more time helping my customers
Stockholm is the largest 
metropolitan market in Sweden. 
Our Swedish building materials 
business, Beijer, is the market 
leader and has a strong presence 
in Stockholm operating from eight 
branches across the city. Instead of 
putting more capacity in branches that 
would normally be run independently, 
we recently centralised the outbound 
logistics for the Stockholm region 
into a single hub. Now all deliveries 
for Stockholm are dealt with centrally 
which gives the customer more 
ﬂexibility on delivery times and also 
efﬁciency savings for the business, with 
better capacity planning for deliveries 
across the city. Most importantly it has 
freed up time in the branches for staff 
to focus on serving customers and 
growing the business. Overview
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
I don’t have time to chase paper
Electronic proof of delivery 
(“ePOD”) was deployed this 
year in the USA and is providing 
a more efﬁcient approach to 
managing customer deliveries 
than traditional manual methods. 
The new system allows our drivers 
to capture electronic signatures on 
outbound deliveries at the job site at 
the time of delivery. With just a few key 
strokes, a POD can now be printed, 
faxed or emailed to a customer as 
and when required. Previously the 
manual process was much slower for 
the customer and time consuming for 
associates. Customers can now be 
set up to receive ePOD 100 per cent 
of the time, or they can access ePOD 
themselves online. The end result 
is providing a new level of customer 
service and efﬁciency savings at the 
same time.
