 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 
Chairman’s statement 03
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Trading conditions across the Group
became increasingly challenging over the
year. Our European markets weakened 
in addition to the continuing deterioration 
of the US housing market, exacerbated by
global liquidity issues in the banking sector.
As a consequence, the Group has seen
little revenue growth with substantial
variation across the businesses as typified
by Stock Building Supply, (‘Stock’) whose
revenue in constant currency was down 
24 per cent. This was offset by stronger
performances in Europe, particularly in 
the first six months of the financial year. 
In order to ameliorate the impact of this
particularly harsh market environment, 
a variety of management actions have 
been taken to adjust the Group’s cost
base. In the US, there have been significant
headcount reductions at both Stock 
and Ferguson Enterprises, along with 
the closure of a number of branches. 
In Europe, headcount and overhead cost
reductions have been announced, and 
in part implemented; further rationalisation 
and restructuring of businesses will 
be undertaken.
Additional focus has also been given 
to cash generation, with considerable
success. Targets for working capital have
been met and, across both continents,
actions have been taken to reduce capital
spend and dispose of non-core assets 
and businesses.
Within this environment, revenues were 
up 2 per cent at £16,549 million, earnings 
per share before exceptional items and 
the amortisation and impairment of acquired
intangibles down 35.6 per cent to 56.58
pence and free cash flow at £571 million.
Whilst the principal elements of our
strategy remain in place, it has been
necessary to achieve the appropriate
balance between realising market
opportunities and the husbanding of 
cash. Acquisition spend was reduced to
£223 million, with no acquisitions since 
the interim results announcement in March
2008. Nevertheless, the Board was not
aware of any major opportunities being
missed as a consequence of this reduction
in expenditure. We have also reduced 
the rate of expenditure on our Business
Change Programme and IT but we remain
committed to business improvement 
and have implemented SAP in several 
pilot businesses in both Europe and 
North America. In May, we opened the
Sustainable Building Center in the UK 
to showcase products and help develop
our future position in the high growth
market in sustainable materials and in 
the energy management sector. 
Inevitably your Board has focused its
attention on cost reduction, cash generation
and restructuring the businesses. We have
rigorously reviewed our ability to comply
with our banking covenants, in the event
that markets continue to deteriorate, 
to ensure that adequate headroom exists
for the future. A contribution to this is the
recommendation that there will be no final
dividend paid in 2008, resulting in a cash
saving of £150 million. The dividend for the
year will therefore be 11.25 pence per share. 
Shareholders will also have noted that
Wolseley delisted from the New York
Stock Exchange and deregistered from
the Securities and Exchange Commission
(‘SEC’) on 2 January 2008 with the
Company now having a Level I American
Depository Receipt (‘ADR’) programme.
The costs associated with SEC registration
and, in particular, compliance with the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements became
increasingly prohibitive for little benefit.
Indeed, since delisting, we have retained
the key elements of our established
internal controls process and our US
shareholder base has almost trebled.
In summary, it has been a particularly
demanding year for Wolseley. The 
Board is acutely aware of the decline 
in market capitalisation along with the
need for recovery. While the short-term
outlook for our markets continues to 
be uncertain, our objective remains 
to ensure the appropriate sizing of our 
cost base in line with the expected
environment. The Board remains
committed to ensuring that Wolseley
emerges from this economic cycle a
stronger business ready to meet the
challenges and growth opportunities 
that will undoubtedly be presented. 
The management team, led by Chip
Hornsby, has demonstrated enormous
energy and commitment to ensuring your
Company is robust in the short run whilst
positioning it as a platform for growth 
in the future. Further, our staff have
demonstrated dedication and initiative 
in difficult conditions over the past year.
My thanks go to all employees and
associates across the Group.
John W Whybrow
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
WO40011_R&A_01-09  6/10/08  14:31  Page 03 We are resolute in
our determination
to take the
appropriate action
to position the
business to respond
to current market
conditions.
Chip Hornsby
Group Chief Executive
WO40011_R&A_01-09  3/10/08  14:42  Page 04
