 Our business is divided into two geographical divisions: 
Europe, which covers business segments in the UK 
and Ireland, France, the Nordic region and Central and 
Eastern Europe; and North America, which consists of the 
North America plumbing and heating businesses namely 
Ferguson and Wolseley Canada. As at 31 July 2009 the 
Group had approximately 51,000 employees and operated 
in 27 countries.
North America plumbing and heating
Ferguson is the leading distributor of plumbing and 
heating supplies to professional contractors and the 
second largest distributor of pipes, valves and ﬁ ttings 
in the US. As at 31 July 2009 the business had 1,228 
branches and 17,402 employees. Wolseley Canada is a 
signiﬁ cant player in wholesale distribution of plumbing, 
heating and ventilation products. As at 31 July 2009 the 
business had 225 branches and 2,487 employees.
UK and Ireland
Wolseley UK and Ireland is one of the leading 
distributors of heating and plumbing products to the 
professional market and a major supplier of building 
materials. As at 31 July 2009 the business had 1,643 
branches and 11,673 employees in the UK and Ireland.
 Nordic region
DT Group is a leading distributor and retailer of building 
materials in the Nordic markets. Stark and Beijer are 
market leaders in Denmark and Sweden respectively, 
while Starkki is the second largest brand in Finland. 
As at 31 July 2009 the Nordic region had 296 branches 
and 6,749 employees.
France
Wolseley France is made up of Brossette, which is the 
second largest distributor of plumbing and heating 
equipment in France, and Réseau Pro, which is an 
integrated distributor of heavyside building materials in 
France. The business also has an active presence in 
the French timber and timber-derived products market. 
As at 31 July 2009 the business had 776 branches and 
9,053 employees.
Central and Eastern Europe
Central and Eastern Europe is made up of the plumbing 
and heating businesses located in Switzerland, Austria, 
the Netherlands, Italy, Luxembourg and Denmark. 
At 31 July 2009 the region had 226 branches and 
2,936 employees.
2 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our business
Wolseley is the world’s largest specialist trade distributor 
of plumbing and heating products to professional 
contractors and a leading supplier of building materials 
to the professional market. Primarily we purchase pre-
assembled products such as plumbing supplies, heating 
and ventilation equipment, building materials, industrial 
pipes, valves and ﬁ ttings. These products are then 
delivered to our branches or our regional distribution 
centres for onward sale to customers against orders 
or over the counter. Goods are either collected by our 
customers or delivered to their site. 
Wolseley supplies a wide range of customers operating 
in different industry sectors that range from the individual 
plumber or builder through to national contractor chains 
and house builders, including large industrial and 
commercial organisations. Our primary customer focus is 
on professional contractors who work with households, 
governments, property developers and industrial buildings 
or in the repair and maintenance of existing premises.
Our focus
Group at a glance
Revenue split by region
North America
plumbing 
and heating
45%
Nordic region
14%
UK and 
Ireland
19%
France
15%
Central and
Eastern Europe
7%
£1 4 billion
Total Group Revenue The following strengths and key competitive advantages 
are common to our businesses:
Fundamentally attractive 
business sector
Whilst the construction industry operates in a cyclical 
manner correlating directly with economic output, we 
believe that the long-term drivers for house building and 
construction are positive in all of the regions in which 
Wolseley operates. Ageing populations, as well as an 
ageing housing stock, in Europe and North America 
indicate that demand for new housing and remodelling 
should remain strong over the long term.
Scale advantages
We believe that scale advantages such as the 
Group’s distribution network utilisation and sourcing 
activities are key competitive advantages and 
differentiators in the marketplace. Historically the Group 
has achieved higher returns where it has consolidated 
its position, built strong local brands and a critical mass 
which delivers signiﬁ cant cost and scale advantages. 
Strong local brands and knowledge
We have a track record of building strong trading 
brands in local markets. We believe that the skills 
and commitment of our employees are a signiﬁ cant 
competitive advantage. We believe that local knowledge 
of market dynamics and customer needs is essential, 
as is retaining and motivating strong and successful 
leadership teams who can drive the future growth 
of the business.
Strong business model
Over several years we have invested in large distribution 
centres, particularly in the US, which enable us to 
purchase in bulk from suppliers, to better serve 
customers by reducing delivery times, improving ﬁ ll 
rates and increasing the availability of products, and 
to manage inventory more efﬁ ciently. The distribution 
network also facilitates cost reduction in the supply 
chain, more efﬁ cient establishment of new branches 
and quicker integration of acquired companies.
Wolseley plc 3 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our strengths Our key achievements
Continuing to drive performance
In the year ended 31 July 2009, we have announced 
restructuring actions which are expected to deliver 
annualised beneﬁ ts of £431 million. We will continue to 
lower the cost base but without losing sight of the need 
to position Wolseley strongly for the upturn. Alongside 
proﬁ tability, the delivery of strong cash ﬂ ow is also 
important. Despite the signiﬁ cant reduction in trading 
proﬁ t this year due to market conditions operating 
cash ﬂ ow was down only 5 per cent at £1,200 million 
(2008: £1,262 million). In the year ended 31 July 2009 
challenging targets for working capital have been exceeded 
and across both continents actions have been taken to 
reduce capital expenditure and dispose of non-core assets 
and businesses.
Financial restructuring complete
In addition to the actions outlined above, in April 2009 
we successfully completed a £1 billion capital raising 
in the form of a share placing and rights issue. We also 
arranged a €1 billion multi-currency committed two-year 
forward start debt facility. This signiﬁ cantly extends our 
debt maturity proﬁ le and reduces any reﬁ nancing risk in the 
period to 1 August 2011, when the facility commences. 
Both the above actions have strengthened our capital base 
to create a more stable position from which we can take 
advantage of any recovery in our markets. 
Future focus on our core businesses
We believe that signiﬁ cant shareholder value can be 
generated through an even greater level of focus on 
the Group’s core businesses. During the year we have 
identiﬁ ed a future focus on North America plumbing 
and heating, UK and Ireland, France, Nordic and certain 
Central and Eastern Europe regions which present the best 
opportunities for return on investment in the longer term.
Exit of Stock Building Supply and strategic 
review of Central and Eastern Europe
In May 2009 we announced the exit from Stock Building 
Supply (“Stock”), our US building materials business. 
This business has been severely affected by the US 
housing downturn. The Group now owns a minority 
shareholding in Stock through a joint arrangement, 
with the majority holding owned by Gores Group LLC, 
an American private equity investor. This transaction 
gives our shareholders an opportunity to participate 
in the long-term value potential of the Stock business 
whilst ensuring deconsolidation of Stock’s operating 
losses and conserving cash.
Following a strategic review during the ﬁ nancial year 
of Central and Eastern Europe, Wolseley has determined 
to focus on those constituent countries where it has built 
sufﬁ cient scale, established leading market positions and 
can deliver an appropriate ﬁ nancial return. Accordingly, 
the Group has decided to retain a presence in Switzerland, 
Austria, Luxembourg, Denmark, Holland and Italy.
