 Group Chief Executive
Chip
Hornsby
Group Chief Executive’s review
DRIVING WOLSELEY
TOWARDS EVEN
GREA TER
ACHIEVEMENTS
The new housing market in the US has been tough, but our results
demonstrate the benefits of our diversity. We have continued to 
invest for future growth, made acquisitions and restructured our
operations to reduce costs and improve margins going forward.
WO40009_R&A_01-41  12/10/07  11:02  Page 08
     My first year as Wolseley’s Group Chief Executive has presented 
us with challenges in the US housing market, lumber price deflation
and a weaker dollar but I am encouraged by how our businesses
and people have responded and by what the Group has achieved.
The results demonstrate the benefits of the Group’s diversity and 
its ability to react swiftly to changing market conditions. We have
continued to invest in the business for future growth, made
acquisitions that further increase diversity and restructured our
operations to reduce costs and improve margins going forward. 
In North America, our businesses were impacted by the sudden
and rapid slowdown in the US new housing market. Our building
materials business, Stock Building Supply (‘Stock’), was most
affected as more than 80 per cent of its revenues have historically
been generated from customers who are house builders. It also faced
significant price deflation to add to the volume decline with around
45 per cent of the products it sells being commodity lumber and
panels. As a result, Stock’s local currency revenue fell 13.4 per cent
and its trading profit fell 74.9 per cent. In response to the poor market
conditions, headcount was reduced in Stock by around 20 per cent
with some 46 branches being closed. Stock’s branch network
going forward will comprise 287 branches in 33 states. The
measures taken to restructure the Stock business should show
increasing benefits as the US housing market improves.
Our US plumbing and heating business, Ferguson Enterprises
(‘Ferguson’), has performed very well with the growth in the
industrial, commercial, utilities and residential remodelling sectors
more than offsetting the effect of the decline in new housing.
Ferguson’s local currency revenue grew 14.8 per cent, including 
5.5 per cent organic growth, and trading profit increased 18.4 per cent.
Our market outperformance, once again, demonstrated the benefits
of our business diversity, specialist product offering, investment in
high calibre people, our unique distribution centre network and a
focus on cost efficiency.
Wolseley Canada achieved local currency revenue growth of 
2.1 per cent and trading profit increased 0.7 per cent, as it continued
to align its operations with the US business structure. Since 
1 August 2007, Wolseley Canada has been integrated into Ferguson,
which will enable further synergies, sharing of best practice and a
consistent approach to broadening the customer base. Increasing
synergies are being realised across our North American operations
as roles in areas such as IT, HR, indirect spend and property
management are performed at the continental level, reducing the
need to duplicate activities in the three businesses.
In Europe, we continued to grow, expanding the number of
countries we operate in from 13 to 21 as well as making good
progress across our established businesses.
In the UK, the restructuring continued whilst also achieving good
levels of organic revenue growth. Acquisitions made in the past 
few years, such as Brandon Hire (tool hire), Encon (insulation) 
and Neville Long (insulation and ceilings), are now well established
alongside our traditional brands. In addition, the electrical distribution
businesses of William Wilson and AC Electrical, have been merged
and rebranded as Electric Center, providing a good base on which
to derive future growth in that new product area. Revenues in the
UK were up 17.9 per cent including 9.9 per cent organic growth,
well ahead of the market generally. Trading profit rose a more modest
5.0 per cent, reflecting the £13 million of one-off restructuring costs
relating to 40 branch closures and rationalisation of head office.
Branch numbers grew overall by 74 to 1,917 and deliveries
commenced from the new 330,000 square foot National Distribution
Centre, which is located alongside Wolseley UK’s head office in
Leamington Spa.
In France, the three businesses – plumbing and heating, building
materials and timber import and solutions – now report into 
one management team following a period of major restructuring,
particularly in Brossette, the plumbing and heating business. 
It was encouraging to see good organic growth of 5.9 per cent 
in France with total local currency revenue up by 10.3 per cent and
trading profit up by 13.1 per cent. A national distribution centre was
opened in France during the year in Orléans with 210,000 square feet
of space. 
In Central and Eastern Europe we achieved a strong performance
with revenue up 22.4 per cent and trading profit up 9.6 per cent
with particularly good results in Switzerland, the Netherlands,
Austria and Luxembourg. We also continued our geographic
expansion with the acquisition in October 2006 of Woodcote, 
a general builders’ merchant. This acquisition has taken us into 
the new geographic areas of the Slovak Republic, Poland, Romania
and Croatia and has also extended our reach in the Czech Republic
and Hungary. The businesses we already had in the Czech Republic
and Hungary have been integrated into Woodcote giving us more
critical mass and a strong management team which is now integral
to our Central and Eastern European team.
Our ability to identify and integrate acquisitions has been a key
feature of Wolseley’s growth and success for many years and last
year was no exception. In fact it was a record year for the Group 
with £1,718 million being spent on acquisitions. The biggest by far
was the acquisition of DT Group, the number one building materials
distributor in the Nordic region, for £1,339 million in September 2006.
We have been very pleased with how quickly DT Group has been
integrated into Wolseley and also by the quality of its ongoing
performance. It has an excellent management team which has been
very focused on driving efficiencies, cost control and cash flow and 
is now pursuing our aggressive growth objectives.
We invested £1,718 million on a total of 44 acquisitions in 17 countries
during the year, as follows:
Number of Acquisitions Spend £m
Europe 22 1,445
North America 22 273
Historically, acquisitions have delivered around half of our annual
growth and this is an area where we have considerable expertise.
We follow a rigorous assessment process before an acquisition is
made and then carefully integrate the business into the Group. By
monitoring the performance of our acquired businesses we ensure
that they perform to expectations and our track record demonstrates
that they deliver significant shareholder value.
A simple business model
Wolseley does not have a complicated business model – we buy
products well, add value for our customers, sell them at healthy
margins and create profitable growth and good returns for our
shareholders. We have demonstrated for many years that we 
are good at growing our business, taking advantage of our strong
market positions and using our experience to ensure that we
outperform our markets. We are not going to radically change 
the way we do business, but we must remain alert to changing
customer requirements and the behaviour of our competitors. 
With around £708 billion of construction products distributed
annually across Europe and North America, we have enormous
growth opportunities available to us and it is vital that we continue
to invest and to make our competitive advantages really count for
the benefit of our customers, employees and shareholders alike.
Group Chief Executive’s review 09
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
WO40009_R&A_01-41  12/10/07  11:02  Page 09 The impact that the weak US housing market has had on the
Group’s short-term profitability is clear. As a result, we have had 
to take some difficult decisions to reduce our cost base in order 
to maintain an acceptable level of profitability. This slowdown has,
however, created an opportunity for us to consider how we want
the Group to evolve over the next stage of its development and 
to put in place initiatives to enhance future performance. We are
determined to create a truly world class company.
Historically, Wolseley has an excellent track record of revenue and
profit growth, typically in excess of 10 per cent per annum. In the
last two years, however, as we have invested significantly in our
businesses, the rate of profit growth has been lower than that for
revenue and we have seen our trading margin slightly reduced. 
The initiatives we are putting in place are designed to reverse this
trend with the target of reaching a minimum 7 per cent trading
margin by 2011.
Our objective is to continue to achieve an average of double-digit
growth year on year and to ensure that our profits increase more
rapidly than our sales. We also aim to generate the cash required
to continue to invest in the business to sustain further growth. 
To achieve that aim, we have been putting increased focus on
improving our working capital performance. The results of this increased
focus were clear from the impressive improvement in free cash flow
generation delivered in the past year.
Margin enhancement, strong cash flow generation and growth 
are key attributes of world class performance. Within the Group 
we have started to communicate the ‘Earn, Turn, Grow’ initiative,
as these are the priorities that we wish each of our operations to
emphasise in their activities. A number of specific initiatives have
been launched across the Group to drive improved performance 
in these areas.
Earn
The ‘Earn’ focus means achieving profit growth in excess of
revenue growth, resulting in an improved margin, far in excess 
of anything we have achieved to date. This means increased cost
efficiency to generate productivity improvements, making the most
of all the investment that has been made in the past and those to
come through the business change programme. Further rewards
will be achieved from the distribution centres, supply chain and
sourcing strategy. 
Part of our sourcing strategy is to leverage our size and buying
power in order to enhance our gross margin. With around 5,300
locations to service our customers, we are a great route to market
for our suppliers. With cost of goods sold of around £12 billion 
last year, there is significant opportunity to improve our margins,
particularly as we develop Wolseley’s private label product offering
which will underpin and enhance our reputation for quality and 
high customer service. 
Turn
We will continue to focus on cash flow and working capital to ensure
that we have sufficient cash to enable us to continue to invest in the
business and to fund our bolt-on acquisitions. The three components
of inventory days, receivables and payables are being closely
monitored in each business to target improvement: turning our
inventory more quickly, collecting receivables efficiently and as 
fast as possible, and extending our payables terms with the
agreement of our suppliers. Cash is what drives a business and 
it will support our growth ambitions.
Grow
We want to continue to grow and double in size every five to seven
years. In the short term there needs to be more emphasis on our
organic growth, ‘sweating the assets’ by putting more volume through
our existing locations and taking advantage of past investments.
We will be putting a great deal of emphasis on improving our 
like-for-like sales growth in every branch. In addition, acquisitions
will continue to be a key part of our strategy, building on our ability
to seek out good quality companies that are successfully integrated
into Wolseley and then grown within our ownership.
We are a Group with a real understanding of our markets and
customers, an absolute grip on the basics of what differentiates 
us from our competitors and a clear desire to continue to grow 
and deliver even better overall business performance.
With the ‘Earn, Turn, Grow’ priorities clearly communicated across
the business units, we have identified five key areas that we will
focus on as a Group which will differentiate us from our competition
and which will support our objectives. These include:
• people development
• sourcing 
• supply chain
• growth
• business improvement
These are discussed in further detail on pages 11 to 21.
I am excited by the opportunities that we have as a Group. 
We operate in very fragmented markets, so there is plenty of 
scope for growing our business and our market share further. 
We have a business model where size really does make a
difference and the scale of our operation gives purchasing benefits
and sourcing opportunities which smaller competitors cannot
achieve. Our continued investment in the logistics network and
distribution centres gives competitive advantages that become 
ever greater as the business grows. We are currently in 28 countries
with a total of 5,296 branches, employing around 79,000 highly
talented people, I believe this is only the beginning. I am confident
that our priorities and focus will help make Wolseley a better, more
effective, world class company. Our goals are within our reach as
long as we continue to focus on our priorities, manage our growth
and increase the emphasis on margin enhancement and cash flow.
We have been through a difficult year with market conditions
continuing to be tough in the new US residential housing market
but I am confident that we will come through this as a leaner,
stronger organisation, eager and able to achieve world class status. 
Chip Hornsby
Group Chief Executive
10 Group Chief Executive’s review
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
From the Boardroom...
to the Branch
= Improve margin
= Enhance cash flow
= Organic and
   acquisitive growth
World
Class
WO40009_R&A_01-41  12/10/07  11:02  Page 10 Group Chief Executive’s review 11
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Customers
Sourcing
Supply Chain 
Growth
Customers 
Sourcing 
Supply Chain 
Growth 
Customers 
Sourcing 
Supply Chain 
Growth 
Customers
Sourcing 
Supply Chain
Growth
Customers
Sourcing
Growth
Supply Chain
Improvement
Development
Business 
Improvement 
People 
Development 
Business 
Improvement 
People 
Development 
Business
Improvement People
Development
Business 
Improvement 
Business 
Improvement 
Business 
Improvement 
People
Development
Supply Chain 
Growth 
Business  
Improvement 
Sourcing 
Customers
are at the heart of our
business and we
never lose sight of that
Development 
People 
 
Business
People
Our Five Key Focus Areas:
Effective and streamlined
organisation from business
improvement initiatives
People are essential
in everything we do
More products
available, quickly
and efficiently
delivered
Aim to double in 
size every five 
to seven years
Right products,
right price,
increased
private label
WO40009_R&A_01-41  12/10/07  11:02  Page 11 12 Group Chief Executive’s review
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 ‘RIGHT
PEOPLE,
RIGHT
SKILLS’
People development
The distribution of construction products to 
satisfy our customers is a relationship business,
with people at the heart of everything we do. 
It is vital that we have the best leadership talent
in the industry.
It starts with our extensive selection and recruitment programme at all 
levels and continues throughout our employees’ careers as they are trained
and developed, whether it be to provide better customer service, product
knowledge or management capability. The skills and commitment of our
employees are a major competitive advantage, which is why we invest 
so much in people and leadership development.
Group Chief Executive’s review 13
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Customers 
Sourcing 
Supply Chain 
Growth 
Business 
Improvement People 
Development 
1 ,030
graduates recruited
79,000
employees
1 26,000
training days provided
Ferguson named by Business Week as 
‘one of the best places for new graduates’ ‘RIGHT
PRODUCTS,
RIGHT
PRICE’
Sourcing
Buying the right products, with the 
right specification and at competitive
prices is at the heart of our business.
Wolseley’s size and scale means that
through our global sourcing programme
we can search the world for the best
products and buy in quantities that
ensure we get the best prices. With 72 per cent of our costs arising from the hundreds 
of thousands of products we buy, there is an opportunity to
reduce our £12 billion purchasing bill by standardising some 
of our products and suppliers across the Group. Increasingly
we will source products directly from manufacturers globally 
and sell more private label products through our extensive 
branch network.
Wolseley provides a powerful channel to the market for 
manufacturers’ products and through our partnerships 
we are confident that we will continue to meet the needs 
of our customers as well as our own financial objectives.
Customers
Sourcing 
Supply Chain
Growth
Business
Improvement People
Development
1 million+
products
20,000+
suppliers
350,000+
private label products ‘FROM THE
FIRST TO THE
LAST MILE’
Supply Chain
New and expanded distribution 
centres are helping us move more
products, more quickly and 
efficiently, to more customers. 
Over many years, Wolseley has invested in large distribution 
centres (‘DCs’). These enable us to obtain bulk purchasing 
benefits, improved inventory management and better service 
to more customers, through a wider product offering and higher 
availability rates. In essence, working in partnership with our 
suppliers, we are able to take costs out of the supply chain.
Every day thousands of products are moved from our DCs to 
our branches for local onward delivery or pick up, or taken directly
to customers’ sites.
But it isn’t just about delivery. Whether it is online, from a catalogue
or at a branch, we want to provide our customers with easy access
to our products and to our knowledgeable staff. We want to make
doing business with Wolseley as easy and efficient as possible;
from the first mile out of our suppliers’ factory gates to the last 
mile to our customers …and all the miles in between.
Once the decision has been made to acquire a certain 
manufacturer’s products, the rest of the supply chain is 
then concerned with getting the product from the factory 
to the customer or the job site, in the most effective way. Group Chief Executive’s review 17
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Customers
Sourcing
Supply Chain 
Growth
Improvement Development
Business
People
5,296
branches
5million
square feet of DC space ‘DOUBLE-DIGIT   Growth
We are focused on growing our
business, organically and through
acquisitions, with the aim of doubling
in size every five to seven years.
GROWTH’
Organic growth is achieved from existing branches expanding
the range of customers they serve and the products they sell
and also from new branches. In 2007, 638 net new branches
were added to give a total of 5,296 across 28 countries in
Europe and North America.
We have had an extremely successful run on acquisitions over 
the past year, spending £1,718 million on a total of 44 deals, 
a record year for the Group. Achieving half of our double-digit
growth target from acquisitions currently requires spending 
of £400-£450 million on bolt-on deals. Occasionally we may 
find a larger company to buy and, in 2007, our spending included
the £1.3 billion acquisition of DT Group, the largest builders
merchant in the Nordic area with 275 branches in Denmark,
Sweden, Norway, Finland and Greenland. Since this acquisition,
DT Group has also become the leading builders’ merchant 
in Greenland. Another four new countries – Poland, Slovakia,
Croatia, and Romania – were added to our Central and Eastern
European operations in October 2006 through the acquisition 
of Woodcote.
The competitive advantage we obtain from our acquisitions
stems from our ability to find quality companies with good 
people, being able to integrate them effectively into the 
Wolseley structure, gain synergies, improve working capital 
and enhance their performance.
With acquisitions come new people, new facilities, new 
products, new customers and new growth opportunities. 
The construction materials distribution market in Europe 
and North America is worth around £708 billion per annum.
Wolseley, although it is the biggest player in its field, has a 
3 per cent market share and that is why we are confident 
of being able to grow well into the future.
£1 .7 billion
acquisitions spend
638
branches added
28
countries in Europe 
and North America
Group Chief Executive’s review 19
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Customers 
Sourcing 
Supply Chain 
Growth 
Business 
Improvement People 
Development  ‘FROM TOP
CLASS TO
WORLDCLASS’
20 Group Chief Executive’s review
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business
improvement
In our industry, Wolseley is already 
a top class company, a leader in our
field, in terms of size, scale, financial
results and efficiency. However, we
have the opportunity to be even
better, to become truly world class.
The Group has continued to invest in key business improvement
initiatives to support its long-term growth objectives, whilst creating
a more effective and streamlined organisation.
As well as the investments we are making to leverage our size 
and scale in supply chain and sourcing, we are also embarking 
on a global business change programme to drive best practice,
establish more efficient processes, reduce costs and benefit from
synergies across the Group.
In particular, we have defined a target operating model that
captures Wolseley’s future vision and we are implementing a
common set of processes across the Group supported by a world
class, Company-wide, common IT platform. The systems being
developed will enable the Group to operate more effectively and 
will lead to continued market outperformance over the long term.
Wolseley is beginning to reap the rewards as several early 
programmes are being rolled out, such as the human resource
management system and a common IT platform across the
Austrian operations. In addition, we are assessing, updating 
and improving our supply chain and branch operations.
Wolseley’s business change initiatives aim to deliver real 
advantages and enhanced benefits to support the organisation’s
growth ambitions.
By creating a culture of continuous improvement, we are raising 
the bar – each year having higher expectations than the last.
Group Chief Executive’s review 21
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Customers
Sourcing
Growth
Supply Chain
Business 
Improvement 
Business 
Improvement 
Business 
Improvement People
Development
82
locations implemented common
warehouse management system
1 2,000
employees served by common 
HR systems to date
