 04 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Our objective is to maximise shareholder value through 
delivering proﬁtable growth in our chosen markets.
Operations, processes and people
A year ago I outlined in this review what I felt 
were the inherent strengths of the Wolseley 
business I had just joined. During the past 
12 months, I have undertaken a thorough 
evaluation of our operations and processes. 
Everything I have seen has reinforced my view 
that this is essentially a great business with a 
fundamentally sound business model. We have 
strong market leading positions in our core 
markets. The quality of our front line people and 
their dedication to our customers is impressive. 
We have built signiﬁcant businesses over time 
and in many geographies, which have good 
records of serving our customers well, backed 
by strong relationships with key vendors, 
talented people and an efﬁcient operating 
model. These factors should enable us to 
leverage our scale and expertise to generate 
organic growth in the future. It is also testament 
to the strength of the business model that 
over many years gross margins have remained 
broadly consistent, even during the recent 
deep recession. 
Business strategy
Between July 2009 and March 2010 the 
Company’s Executive Committee developed 
an operating framework to deliver sustainable 
and proﬁtable growth (see diagram opposite). 
Our approach is based on a top down resource 
allocation process, to allow us to choose which 
businesses will give us the best returns in the 
long term. In addition, we have also developed 
bottom up detailed business unit strategies to 
make sure we invest in the right projects and 
plans to deliver our future growth at a local level. 
To assist this I have dismantled the divisional 
structure around North America and Europe so 
that we have greater visibility of the underlying 
performance of local businesses. New monthly 
reporting processes and regular business 
reviews with country management teams 
ensure that all of us are focused on the 
right priorities.
Our objective for each business unit strategy 
is to grow proﬁtably faster than our competition. 
Our business is local in the sense that the 
majority of our 1 million customers travel less 
than 20 miles to reach a branch. Our aim is 
therefore to gain a greater share of our existing 
customers’ business in every branch and to 
gain new customers by providing them with 
the best local customer service, delivered by 
the best branch staff in the industry and by 
partnering with the key vendors in the industry. 
Underpinning this we want to operate a low cost 
efﬁcient operating model, which ensures we are 
competitive and can attract favourable terms 
from our vendors. 
We have now completed the top down resource 
allocation process, so we are clear which 
business units we want to drive for faster growth 
– in short, those where we believe we can win, 
versus the competition. We’re now building and 
executing the individual business unit strategies 
and three year plans. I believe that the progress 
we have made this year, which you can read 
about on pages 6 to 9, represents a decent 
start and there is still much to be done.
Overview of performance
During the year Wolseley experienced a 
gradual stabilisation in its markets. The repair, 
maintenance and improvement (“RMI”) 
segment has held up better than the new 
construction markets and many of our 
customers have changed their focus to the 
RMI markets. However, the new construction 
markets remain weak, especially in the 
US, and commercial markets in particular 
remain depressed. This relative stabilisation 
of our markets led to a decent second half 
performance and a return to modest like-for-like 
growth in the ﬁnal quarter. We also focused on 
protecting gross margins and carefully managing 
the cost base. Revenue of £13,203 million was 
9 per cent below last year, though the decline 
was restricted to 6 per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. The gross margin at 27.7 per cent was 
consistent with last year and we continue to 
focus on improving customer and product mix. 
Chief Executive’s review
Change in like-for-like 
revenue
−6.0%
Gross margin
27 .7%
Trading margin
3.4%
Operating cash ﬂow
£705m Wolseley plc 05
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ report – Business review
Directors’ report – Corporate governance
Financial statements
Other information
Trading proﬁt of £450 million was £3 million 
ahead of last year, despite the revenue decline 
and was achieved as the result of the improved 
cost base. Operating costs in the year excluding 
exceptional items were reduced by £353 million 
(or 10 per cent).
During the year we continued to manage the 
balance sheet conservatively. Cash was tightly 
controlled, but not at the expense of damaging 
customer service, and capital expenditure was 
reduced to £84 million (2009: £157 million). 
We continue to place a great deal of emphasis 
on driving good cash generation, with a 
particular focus on working capital discipline. 
Operating cash ﬂow continued to be strong at 
£705 million. As a result net debt, at 31 July 
2010 was reduced to £346 million compared 
with £959 million at 31 July 2009. We are now 
placing a much greater emphasis on driving 
across-the-year improvements and we aim to 
deliver better month-on-month cash ﬂow 
performance in the year ahead.
Restructuring and disposals
In the year ended 31 July 2010, the Group 
continued to take restructuring actions to 
lower the cost base and incurred exceptional 
restructuring costs of £81 million. During the 
year we disposed of Wolseley’s activities in 
Ireland, the Czech, Belgian and Slovakian 
plumbing and heating businesses, Friosol 
(a small Swiss refrigerant distribution business) 
and the Public Works business in France. 
In the year ended 31 July 2010 these 
businesses generated revenues of £95 million 
and £7 million of trading losses. The businesses 
disposed in the year (and businesses held 
for sale) gave rise to an exceptional loss of 
£57 million in the period which has been 
recorded as an exceptional item. Since the 
year end we have also disposed of Brandon 
Hire in the UK. 
Summary
2010 has been a challenging year for Wolseley, 
especially given the prevailing market conditions, 
against which we can benchmark our future 
performance. Good progress was made 
on customer service, vendor management, 
improving the development of our people and 
driving a more efﬁcient operating platform. 
By stepping up the intensity with which we 
manage the performance of the businesses, 
especially the ones with strong growth potential 
and those which generate synergies, we are 
well placed to deliver proﬁtable growth and 
ultimately create sustainable shareholder value. 
Our shareholders, employees, customers and 
vendors have given strong support to Wolseley 
this year and I thank them for their trust, patience 
and loyalty. We have started to deliver on our 
plans for the business and we have much to do, 
but I am conﬁdent that we are in much better 
shape for the future even in these volatile 
market conditions.
Ian Meakins
Group Chief Executive
Value Creation model 
33 See pages 6 – 9
In March, we introduced a 
value creation model which 
combines top down resource 
allocation with bottom up 
business unit strategies. 
This is outlined in more detail 
in the following pages.
Strategy
Operational 
performance
Proﬁtable 
growth
Resource 
allocation
Business unit 
strategies
Within  
business unit
Cross-  
business unit
 See pages 6-7 
for further details on  
Wolseley’s resource 
allocation strategy
 See pages 8-9 
for further details on 
driving operational 
performance
