 06
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Value creation model
Strategy
Business 
unit 
strategies
Within 
business 
units
Cross-
business 
unit
Resource 
allocation
Operational 
performance
Proﬁtable growth
Chief Executive’s review
Overview
We have delivered a decent performance this year despite 
the challenging economic conditions. Further improvements 
in customer service and a return to like-for-like growth 
contributed to strong trading proﬁt growth. Our ongoing 
focus on operational efﬁciency has enabled us to both 
invest in future growth and deliver another increase in the 
trading margin of 120 basis points as well as delivering 
strong cash generation. During the year we announced our 
intention to exit some businesses and signed or completed 
most of the major disposals that were planned. This will allow 
us to focus all our resources on our strategically strong 
businesses going forward. 
Group results
During the year our markets broadly stabilised, driven 
principally by improving New Residential construction and 
the more resilient Repair, Maintenance and Improvement 
markets. 
The Group reported revenue up 3 per cent to £13,558 million 
(2010: £13,203 million). Like-for-like revenue was ahead by 
5 per cent which, coupled with an ongoing focus on 
protecting gross margins and careful cost control, led to a 
strong operating performance. We have continued to focus 
hard on achieving a better mix of products and vendors and 
despite considerable pressure on selling prices the gross 
margin was 20 basis points higher at 27.9 per cent (2010: 
27.7 per cent). We also continued to keep the cost base 
under tight control and operating costs excluding exceptional 
items were reduced by £45 million. Consequently the Group 
experienced strong operating leverage from incremental 
revenue and Group trading proﬁt in the year was up 38 per 
cent to £622 million (2010: £450 million). 
In summary
Markets broadly stabilised.
Operating performance improving.
Exit of non-core businesses largely 
completed in the year.
Improving customer service and 
employee engagement scores.
Focus on organic expansion 
and bolt-on acquisition.
For Value creation in action  
see pages 10–17
Most efﬁcient operating model
Gain share of existing customers and gain  
new customers
Best 
customer 
service
Preferred 
vendor 
relationships
Best  
branch  
staff 07
Wolseley plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Strategic overview Corporate governance Business and performance Financial statements Other information
During the year we continued to manage the balance sheet 
conservatively. Cash was tightly controlled enabling us 
to invest in additional capital expenditure of £93 million 
(2010: £84 million). 
Strategy update 
Our strategy remains unchanged: focusing Wolseley through 
a top down resource allocation process on those businesses 
which already have, or are capable of market leadership 
which will give us the best returns in the long term. Alongside 
this we have developed bottom up detailed business unit 
strategies to make sure we grow these businesses faster 
than the competition. In short, we are driving a parallel path 
of resource allocation and performance management to 
generate proﬁtable growth which is outlined in our value 
creation model opposite. In addition, you can read about the 
progress we are making on delivering the strategy on pages 
10 to 17.
Resource allocation 
During the year we have re-run the resource allocation process 
and we have disposed of a number of underperforming 
businesses which we felt had insufﬁcient scale or no clear 
economic synergies with our major businesses. These 
Performance Builder businesses included Brandon Hire 
and Electric Center in the UK and the plumbing and heating 
business in Italy. In July 2011 we also announced the sale of 
Build Center in the UK and exclusive negotiations for the sale 
of Brossette, our French plumbing and heating business. 
Both transactions are subject to clearance from the 
relevant competition authorities. On completion the total 
consideration for the two transactions is expected to be 
£310 million. Completion of the above transactions will 
conclude Wolseley’s signiﬁcant business disposals planned 
following last year’s strategic review.
Our business model also remains unchanged: we believe 
that delivering excellent customer service will allow us 
to deliver attractive levels of organic revenue growth 
whilst driving sustainable proﬁt and margin improvement. 
In combination with disciplined capital investment and tight 
control over working capital, this will result in strong cash 
ﬂows. Our markets are typically highly fragmented and have 
some really exciting growth prospects. We have some 
excellent businesses with strong market positions. 
We will continue to invest, both organically and in value 
creating bolt-on acquisitions where we can generate 
synergies. With acquisitions, our strong preference is for small 
to medium sized businesses in our existing geographies, so 
that we can integrate them rapidly into our strong businesses 
and deliver attractive returns. In line with this approach we 
made three small bolt-on acquisitions this year, including a 
small Waterworks business in the USA and two small building 
materials businesses in Denmark. Overall, we believe this 
focused approach will deliver real value to our shareholders. 
Operational performance
Our objective for each business unit strategy is to improve 
customer service by developing and training our staff so 
that we can win market share from our competition. 
Therefore in every branch we want to gain a greater share 
of our existing customers’ business and also attract new 
customers by providing the best local customer service, 
delivered by the best branch staff in the industry. 
Underpinning this is an efﬁcient operating model which 
ensures we are competitive and can attract favourable terms 
from our vendors. Here we have focused on establishing 
preferred partnership relationships to achieve the most 
competitive costs. 
Underpinning this is a performance review process which 
continues to gain traction. We now have good visibility down 
to business unit level and also down into our 3,837 branches. 
For example, in Ferguson for each branch we now have a 
dashboard of performance for customer service, product 
availability, local market share performance and branch 
manager performance as well as key ﬁnancial data. Regular 
customer feedback is now embedded in every business unit 
and it is informing our thinking and decisions every day. 
There is a clear correlation in our business between engaged 
employees delivering excellent customer service and strong 
ﬁnancial results in a branch. We are now therefore measuring 
employee engagement on a regular basis. This has improved 
in the last year even in the tough markets we have had to 
contend with. So having the right staff, properly trained and 
developed and with a clear view on how we can build their 
careers long term is fundamental to our future success. We are 
also beginning to share best practices across our business 
units and have increased our IT investment in projects that will 
deliver better front line performance. This includes sales force 
productivity, pricing and trade terms management, 
and product availability at the branch level. 
Priorities
Looking forward, we are well placed to exploit the signiﬁcant 
growth opportunities in our chosen distribution markets. 
The performance of the business is improving and we are 
now getting good visibility down to a branch level across all 
the key performance measures. We know we still have great 
opportunities for the future.
Lastly, I would like to reiterate Gareth’s comments about 
all our staff. I am very proud and lucky to lead this great 
organisation. So I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
our staff – their commitment during another tough year has 
made all the difference to our results. 
Ian Meakins  
Chief Executive
