 Chairman’s statement
Chairman
John
Whybrow
PROGRESS MADE IN
A CHALLENGING YEAR
With our size and scale we can continue to invest
and take advantage of the growth opportunities 
that the European and North American construction
markets will provide in the future.
WO40009_R&A_01-41  12/10/07  10:57  Page 04
     2007 has been a particularly challenging period for the Group. 
In a year when we have achieved good performance across
European operations generally, we have also had to contend 
with a very difficult market for new housing in the US. Equally, 
we recorded our highest spend ever on acquisitions of £1,718 million
which included the purchase of DT Group in the Nordic region.
Overall, revenue ended up 14.6 per cent with trading profit down 
0.6 per cent.
The new housing market in the US has seen its biggest fall in more
than 15 years. As a result, it was necessary to significantly reduce
our cost base in Stock Building Supply (‘Stock’) (which is the
Group’s business most exposed to the new housing market in 
the US), closing a number of branches, reducing employee
numbers and tightly controlling overheads. However, the Board
continues to believe that the European and North American
construction markets, including new housing in the US, will provide
good opportunities for growth in the future. Ensuring that we have
the appropriate organisation to respond to customers’ changing
needs and yet be efficient in the way we do business continues to
be a priority.
With this in mind, Chip Hornsby, in his first year as Group Chief
Executive, has created a number of new roles, started new
initiatives and agreed new targets with the Board; among which 
are to improve cash flow along with generating a 7 per cent trading
margin by the year ending 31 July 2011. In the pages that follow,
you can read more about these initiatives, all of which are designed
to ensure that Wolseley benefits from being a genuinely international
company and develops into a truly world class Group. 
The size and scale of our operations mean that we can continue 
to invest in people, infrastructure and technology. Our aim is to
source products at the right price from our suppliers and deliver
these to our customers in the most effective manner possible. 
In support of this, we continue to expand our capabilities in areas
such as procurement, supply chain and IT to support our existing
businesses and to maximise the value that we obtain from
acquisitions going forward.
Dividend
In September 2006, the Group raised £646 million after costs from
the placement of new shares, equivalent to 10 per cent of its issued
share capital, in order to provide funding headroom for bolt-on
acquisitions and capital expenditure for expansion. The impact 
of this share issue and the lower profitability due to the difficult 
US housing market has caused our earnings per share before
amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles to fall 11.2 per cent
to 87.80 pence. However, the Board is confident of the Group’s
future prospects and it is, therefore, recommending a final dividend
of 21.55 pence, which represents a total dividend for the year of
32.40 pence. This is an increase of 10.2 per cent over the total
dividend paid last year.
The Board
Fenton Hord, who was responsible for the Group’s US building
materials business, retired from the Board on 31 July 2007 after 
20 years with the Group, including seven years as a Board member.
The Group has also announced that Robert Walker, a Non Executive
Director since 1998, will leave the Board on 31 October 2007. 
To both Fenton and Robert, I wish to extend the Board’s sincere
thanks and appreciation for their significant contributions to the
Group and wish them both well for the future.
I also wish to thank all of our customers, suppliers, investors and
each of our 78,948 employees for their support not just over the
last year, but over many years. 
The Board looks ahead with confidence. We have a sound strategy
with a proven track record of growth sustained over many years
and we operate in markets that are extremely fragmented. We are
confident that the initiatives and investments that Chip and his
team are undertaking today will drive Wolseley to new and even
greater achievements in the future.
John W Whybrow
Chairman
Chairman’s statement 05
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
WO40009_R&A_01-41  12/10/07  10:57  Page 05
