 4 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
We enter 2010 after a year of profound
change and unprecedented challenges
in both our industry and our Company ,
but I am conﬁ dent the measures we have
taken to reposition Wolseley this year will
enable us to take maximum advantage
of the opportunities that will arise as the
global economy recovers.
Chairman’s statement
John W Whybrow Chairman Wolseley plc 5 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
 Group results
2009 has been an extraordinary year, by 
any measure, and we are experiencing 
the most severe global downturn since 
the 1930s. It was triggered by problems 
in the US housing market, which spread 
to the ﬁ nancial services industry and has 
now moved on to the broader economy. 
During the year the construction 
industry in North America and Europe 
that Wolseley serves has continued to 
be signiﬁ cantly adversely affected by 
these circumstances and consequently 
many of our businesses have dealt with 
peak to trough declines in activity levels 
which would not have been considered 
possible only 18 months ago.
The difﬁ cult operating environment is 
clearly reﬂ ected in the results for the 
year. Group revenue from continuing 
operations for the 12 months to 
31 July 2009 was down 2.5 per cent 
to £14.4 billion and earnings per share 
from continuing operations before 
exceptional items and amortisation and 
impairment of acquired intangibles was 
down 60.2 per cent to 95.6 pence. 
While our ﬁ nancial results reﬂ ect these 
macro-economic conditions and our 
exposure to them, management action 
this year has remained resolutely 
focused on the deployment of plans to 
deal with this severe market contraction. 
Particular focus has continued on 
restructuring actions to lower the 
cost base and driving strong cash 
generation. These actions are expected 
to reduce headcount by 9,848 and 
we have closed 653 underperforming 
branches through speciﬁ c restructuring 
programmes. These restructuring 
actions are expected to deliver 
annualised savings of over £431 million. 
Further considerable progress has 
been made in driving improvements 
in working capital which showed 
through in an excellent operating cash 
ﬂ ow performance of £1,200 million 
(2008: £1,262 million), which is only 
5 per cent below the prior year despite 
the signiﬁ cant reduction in trading proﬁ t. 
Challenging targets for working capital 
have been met and across both 
continents actions have been taken to 
reduce capital expenditure and dispose 
of non-core assets and businesses. 
Financial restructuring 
and capital raising
Despite the signiﬁ cant ongoing 
actions, the demands imposed by the 
operating environment and outlook 
for our industry also required that we 
reviewed more fundamentally how 
we run the business. In particular, it 
became apparent that action was 
required to strengthen Wolseley’s 
balance sheet and ensure that the 
Company maintained its focus and 
put its resources into our principal 
business activities. 
A comprehensive package of measures 
was announced with the accelerated 
Half Year Results in March which 
included a share placing and rights 
issue, which raised approximately 
£1 billion, and a €1 billion committed 
two-year forward start debt facility from 
1 August 2011. It was pleasing that the 
share issue was well subscribed with 
over 99 per cent of our shareholders 
voting to accept our proposals and over 
98 per cent of the rights offered being 
taken up.
Revenue £14.4bn
Trading proﬁ t
 1
  £44 7 m
Operating cash ﬂ ow £1 ,200m
Cash conversion
 2
  364 %
Operating loss £(606)m
Summary results (continuing operations)
1  Trading proﬁ t, a term used throughout the 
Annual Report, is deﬁ ned as operating proﬁ t 
before exceptional items and the amortisation 
and impairment of acquired intangibles. 
See note 12 of the consolidated ﬁ nancial 
statements for a reconciliation from operating 
proﬁ t to trading proﬁ t.
2  Cash conversion is the ratio of operating cash 
ﬂ ow to trading proﬁ t (including discontinued 
operations). 6 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The Board is conscious that the 
inevitable but regrettable consequence 
of the capital raising exercise has been 
the dilution of the interests of some 
existing shareholders. The Directors 
considered a range of alternative 
options to raising equity, including 
the negotiation of amendments to 
the ﬁ nancial covenants in the Group’s 
existing facilities and the possibility of 
further disposals of businesses. 
After careful consideration, the Board 
determined that the share issue was 
necessary and clearly provided the 
correct path to achieving ﬁ nancial 
stability for the Group within an 
appropriate time frame and in a 
manner that best preserved long-term 
shareholder value. As a consequence 
of the capital raising and a strong 
working capital performance for the 
year ended 31 July 2009 gearing was 
signiﬁ cantly lower at 28.4 per cent 
(2008: 73.5 per cent).
Aligning executive 
remuneration with 
shareholder interests
In recognition of the substantial 
decrease in proﬁ tability in 2009, the 
Remuneration Committee of the 
Board has been working to bring 
about fundamental change to the way 
remuneration works for our senior 
executives. These changes are outlined 
in the Remuneration report on page 62. 
Our approach has sought to balance 
the reality of our current level of ﬁ nancial 
performance with a need to offer a 
competitive remuneration package for 
individuals who are performing well 
and in a manner aligned with long-term 
shareholder interests.
In summary, at Board and Executive 
Committee level there will be no 
bonus payments for the year ended 
31 July 2009, no salary increase for the 
coming year and a reduction in long-
term incentive plan and share option 
awards. In addition, this year both 
Executive and Non Executive Directors 
will contribute between 10–15% of 
salary or fees to be used to invest in 
shares in the Company, thereby further 
reinforcing the relationship between 
Director and shareholder interests.
Focusing on our strengths
At the time of the capital raising, 
announced with the release of the 
Half Year Results, we also outlined 
a greater focus for the Group on the 
North America plumbing and heating, 
UK and Ireland, Nordic and French 
businesses. We strongly believe that 
signiﬁ cant shareholder value can be 
generated through an even greater level 
of focus on these core businesses, 
which we regard as presenting the 
best opportunities for growth and return 
on investment in the medium term. 
The Group historically has achieved 
higher returns where it has consolidated 
its market position, and developed 
strong local brands and a critical mass, 
which delivers signiﬁ cant cost and 
scale advantages. 
In March we also determined to exit 
Stock Building Supply (“Stock”), the 
Group’s US building materials business. 
The business was loss making 
and highly exposed to continuing 
deterioration in the US new residential 
construction market. In May we 
announced the disposal of the 
business and the formation of a joint 
arrangement with the Gores Group 
LLC. Going forward Wolseley has 
retained a minority holding in Stock, 
which will allow shareholders to beneﬁ t 
from any future market recovery in 
US housing, while deconsolidating its 
results from our ﬁ nancial statements 
and excluding these from our banking 
covenant commitments. We wish the 
business every success under Gores’ 
stewardship and continue to have an 
interest in its overall direction through 
Board representation.
In July we announced the outcome 
of the strategic review of those countries 
that comprise the Group’s Central and 
Eastern Europe activities. Our future 
focus in the region will be on those 
countries where we have built sufﬁ cient 
scale, established leading market 
positions and can deliver an appropriate 
ﬁ nancial return. Accordingly, we have 
determined to sell our businesses 
in Belgium, Slovakia and the Czech 
Republic. 
During the year we also disposed of 
MART, Wolseley’s Hungarian plumbing 
and heating business, and Wasco-
Anbuma, a carbon and stainless steel 
pipe business based in Belgium, to local 
management. 
Board changes
In June, Chip Hornsby stepped down 
as Group Chief Executive and the Board 
appointed Ian Meakins as his successor. 
In all, Chip spent over 31 years in our 
industry, joining Ferguson in 1978 and 
working his way up to take over as 
Chief Executive of that business in 
2001. He was appointed as Wolseley 
Group Chief Executive on 1 August 
2006 and led the drive to reduce costs 
and improve cash ﬂ ow in response 
to increasingly challenging trading 
conditions arising from the global 
ﬁ nancial crisis. I would like to take 
this opportunity to recognise Chip’s 
signiﬁ cant contribution to the Group in a 
long and distinguished career and wish 
him and his family well for the future. 
Ian Meakins started in his new role 
on 13 July and brings a wealth of 
operational experience in global 
business, having undertaken a number 
of leadership positions in brand, retail 
and wholesale distribution operations 
on an international scale. His track 
record on improvement of business 
performance is impressive and he is 
already making an impact in his ﬁ rst 
few weeks. Later on in this report, Ian 
will share some of his early thoughts 
with you about his intentions to keep 
the focus on operating performance 
given market conditions. In addition, 
he is already turning the organisation’s 
attention to further sharpening our 
strategy to ensure prioritising investment 
in Wolseley’s most attractive businesses.
Action has also been taken to 
strengthen the broad range of skills 
and senior experience of the Board. 
On 1 September, Alain Le Goff joined 
the Board as a Non Executive Director. 
Alain has signiﬁ cant international 
experience in logistics and cost 
reduction from the consumer products 
industry through his previous role at 
Reckitt Benckiser. 
Chairman’s statement continued Wolseley plc 7 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In October, Michael Wareing will also join 
the Board as a Non Executive Director. 
Michael was formerly International Chief 
Executive of KPMG and will assume the 
role of Chairman of the Audit Committee 
on 1 January 2010. Although Jim 
Murray will not be retiring from the 
Board until 2010, I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank him for his 
signiﬁ cant contribution over the last 
eight years, and in particular for his 
conscientious and constructive 
leadership of the Audit Committee. 
I should also comment on a Board 
review which we undertook during the 
year. This review, using an external 
facilitator, undertook an evaluation of 
the performance of the Board, that 
of its Committees and individual 
Directors. I am pleased to report that 
your Board was rated as being highly 
effective in comparison with other 
FTSE 100 companies regarding its 
engagement and contribution, and in 
its response to the economic situation. 
Equally, opportunities for continued 
development of the Board, being 
cognisant of the changing internal and 
external dynamics, were also identiﬁ ed. 
Dividends
It is not appropriate to pay any dividend 
on the ordinary shares in 2009. 
However, the Board is very mindful that 
dividends are an extremely important 
part of shareholder return and income. 
It is the Board’s intention over time 
to return to paying dividends, taking 
account of the Group’s capital position, 
retained earnings and prospects. 
I also recognise that the reduction in 
the Group’s value over the last year 
has caused considerable hardship and 
has demanded the actions we detail 
in this report. I would like to thank 
our shareholders and banks for their 
support and faith in what we are doing.
Summary
In summary, last year was undeniably 
difﬁ cult and a continuing weak 
economic environment means that 2010 
will present signiﬁ cant challenges in all 
of our markets. During the year I have 
spent a considerable amount of time 
working with executives, managers and 
employees throughout the organisation 
and I continue to be impressed by 
their professionalism, dedication, and 
application. I would like to thank all our 
employees who have worked extremely 
hard, often meeting very demanding 
deadlines with great enthusiasm. 
In the current operating environment, 
the path to recovery will be neither 
smooth nor straight. But we build on 
a number of strengths: strong core 
businesses with appropriate scale 
and leading market positions, talented 
people and, above all, thousands of 
loyal customers around the world who 
recognise the quality of service that we 
provide. By doing our best by them, in 
all of our enduring franchises around 
the world, we will take the actions 
that will deliver once again sustainable 
returns for our shareholders. I am 
conﬁ dent that through Ian’s leadership 
and the continued commitment and 
determination of our people, Wolseley 
will make rapid progress towards 
this objective.
John W Whybrow Chairman
