 06 Chairman’s statement Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Meeting customer
needs today,
building an
organisation 
for the future
Chairman’s statement
John W Whybrow
Chairman
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 06 Chairman’s statement 07 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
The figures you see in this Annual Report represent yet another excellent
performance. 2004/05 was a year to remember, one where we achieved
high levels of growth whilst also shaping the business for continued
success in the future.
Although we made many acquisitions during the year and the Board 
is delighted at the progress made in this regard, we are particularly
pleased with organic growth of 8.7% in sales.
In North America, our companies recorded remarkable achievements. 
We further enhanced our leading positions with skill and commitment in 
a positive market. The American businesses performed well in delivering
strong organic growth and Ferguson started the successful roll-out 
of the XpressNet branch concept and invested for future growth in
expanding our distribution network and new branches.
We are pleased with the performance in the UK and Ireland, where 
we again achieved double-digit growth. We completed the acquisition 
of Brooks Group Limited in Ireland and it has been good to see the
business integrating so well into the Wolseley family. In Continental
Europe, the operating companies generally performed well in flat 
market conditions.
Organisational changes
In recent months we have announced the establishment of the new 
North American organisation, under the leadership of Chip Hornsby. 
We now have two regional business structures, North America and
Europe, supported by Group management giving leadership in areas
such as strategy, mergers & acquisitions, finance and administration,
human resource management, purchasing, IT and legal. This is a Group
structure towards which we have been working for some time. It is a fine
platform for the future, enabling us to exploit opportunities and synergies
within each region as well as between regions, whilst still allowing
management to run their businesses locally and to recognise market
opportunities within their own geographies.
Dividend
With our earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rising 
14.8% to 85.93 pence, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 
17.6 pence, which represents a total dividend for the year of 26.4 pence.
This is an increase of 10.9% over the total dividend paid last year.
The Board
There have been three major changes to your Board during the year.
Early in the financial year, Jacques Descours stepped down from the
Board ahead of his retirement from Wolseley in 2005. Jacques brought
great knowledge and experience to the boardroom and I would like to
place on record our appreciation of his hard work. We wish him well.
Gérard Legtmann left the Group during the year to pursue other
interests, having laid the foundations for the European organisation.
He was succeeded by Robert Marchbank, a highly-qualified internal
candidate for the post of Chief Executive Europe. Rob has wide
experience of Wolseley, through his time at Ferguson and at Group level
in strategic and IT roles. Rob’s understanding of the different cultures
and businesses around the Group has enabled him to give immediate
leadership to the European organisation as it continues to evolve. I look
forward to working more closely with Rob as he takes his place on a
strong Board.
We have also announced a major change to your Board which will 
take effect next year. Charlie Banks will retire on 31 July 2006, after 
39 years with the Company and will be succeeded by Chip Hornsby,
Chief Executive North America. Charlie has made an outstanding
contribution to the Group during his many years of service and has 
led the Company through an extensive period of growth and change
since 2001.  
The Board is confident that Chip Hornsby will provide the Group 
with the continuity the Company requires over the next phase of its
development and will bring to the role clear leadership, vision and
commercial judgement.
I look forward to working with him in the coming years.
Corporate governance remains an issue for all organisations, none more
so than those like Wolseley which operate on more than one continent.
We have continued to make good progress with compliance with the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, one of the most significant recent changes to
American corporate law and we are on target for full implementation 
in the coming year.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their
support over the last year. We rely on the goodwill and commitment of
our suppliers, customers and investors as we continue to maintain our
record of double-digit growth. In particular, I give special thanks to our
60,000 people, each of whom has played their part in this rewarding year.
We face the future with confidence. Our proven strategy, strong local
businesses, supported by the North American, European and Group
organisations, will ensure that we continue to deliver growth and
improvement in the coming years.
John W Whybrow
Chairman
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 07
