 This has been 
another momentous 
year for Wolseley 
as we achieved 
our ninth consecutive    
year of record results
Group Chief Executive’s review
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  11:25 am  Page 08 Group Chief Executive’s review 09 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
One good year is an achievement and two is
impressive. But consistently delivering record
levels of growth in sales and profits over almost 
a decade is an accomplishment of some note 
and the cause of great pride for me and for my
management team.
As well as delivering this performance we have, at the same time, 
been building the foundations for continued growth and an improved
competitive position in the future.
We have invested and innovated, planned and executed, promised 
and delivered. And the result is a solid platform for sustained growth
across two continents.
Our efforts are increasingly gaining external recognition. We are currently
341 in the Fortune Global 500, are positioned in Forbes’ top 500 and
merit inclusion on their A-List of The World’s Best Big Companies. 
We were also ranked 14th in the European Business Week Fifty and
placed at Number 10 in the ‘Most Admired Companies’ league table 
in the UK’s Management Today magazine. All of this recognition is a 
fine tribute to our people and our companies. 
Our consistent performance has also led to a satisfying advance up 
the FTSE100, from being outside the Index in 2001 to Number 39 
as at 31 July 2005. We believe that this demonstrates the strength 
of our business model and our strategy, which we are continuing to
deploy in order to maintain that success and deliver continued growth
and constant improvement.
Proven strategic drivers
We believe our strategy is working and is
providing the right impetus for present and future
success. We see no point in simply changing
strategy mid-stream. Instead, we have continued
to focus on the six key strategic drivers that have
contributed so much to our success in recent
years: growing through acquisition and organic
growth; continuous improvement; leveraging our
international position; enhancing our business
diversity; developing our human resources; 
and creating innovative solutions to meet our
customers’ changing needs.
Double-digit growth, year after year, is challenging, yet as our
performance demonstrates, is also eminently achievable. We look for 
half of our growth to be delivered by bolt-on acquisitions and currently
aim to spend £225 –£250 million per year. Exactly how much varies 
from year to year, depending on the availability of suitable targets that
are aligned with our strategy and also meet our financial criteria. We 
are constantly looking for new opportunities to develop our business, 
both within our existing countries and elsewhere, as well as looking to
expand the range of products that we sell and the customer segments
that we serve.
The year ended 31 July 2005 saw 26 acquisitions completed for an
aggregate spend of £431 million, with the split of acquisition spend
slightly in favour of North America with 60% versus 40% in Europe. 
Each of these new businesses has real potential, offering substantial
opportunity for future organic growth.
We started the year with a flourish with the £137 million acquisition of
Brooks Group Limited. Brooks is the largest timber distributor and the
third largest builders’ merchant in the combined Republic of Ireland and
Northern Ireland markets. We have now owned Brooks for 12 months
and the integration is proceeding well, with business performance 
ahead of plan.
Then, after a steady year which saw a further nine acquisitions in
Europe, ten in our North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution
and five in our US Building Materials Distribution, we closed the year 
with another large acquisition: Vegas General Construction. This
company is a turnkey supplier of construction materials and services 
to the residential builder in the Las Vegas and Denver markets. In 2004 
it achieved sales of $231 million. Vegas General Construction is a fine
example of how Wolseley is responding to changing customer needs as
we increasingly offer a framing and installation service for housebuilders.
We look for our acquisitions to deliver product and geographic diversity.
In Ireland, for example, our purchase of Brooks means we can now
bring together their timber and building materials experience with
Heatmerchants’ expertise in plumbing and heating supplies so our Irish
customers can benefit from a broader Wolseley offering. We pursued 
a similar route in France, where our plumbing and heating distribution
business Brossette was complemented by the acquisition of building
supplies and timber specialist PBM a little over two years ago.
Sharing ideas across businesses
We continue to transfer the skills and knowledge
gained in one market to meet the challenges 
and opportunities encountered elsewhere. In
North America, for example, Ferguson has taken
the concept of multiple small branches that work
so successfully in the UK and is rolling out their
own version – XpressNet branches – to offer their
customers a new, more flexible service. Across
Europe, companies are expanding their traditional
product bases by learning from their counterparts
in other countries. PBM in France and ÖAG in
Austria, for example, have recently introduced a
tool hire offering to their markets which has been
directly replicated from the Hire Center operation
in the UK.
Continuous improvement is a way of life at Wolseley, as is working
together and sharing ideas for growth and success. We understand 
that there is always a better way to work and we invest time and
resources to identify opportunities for improvement.
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:36 am  Page 09 10 Group Chief Executive’s review
Investing for the future
To meet our targets for growth and performance
we can never be complacent. We need to
constantly invest for our future and in this last 
year we have made many substantial business
improvement investments designed to lay 
the long-term foundations for an ever-sharper
competitive advantage. 
The supply chain is being radically transformed by an ongoing major
investment in Distribution Centres (“DCs”) which will allow us to better
serve our customers worldwide. We continue to expand our successful
network of DCs in the USA, and in Europe and Canada we are making
significant investments to adapt and tailor the DC concept to meet 
the specific needs of our customers in these very different markets. 
Back up the supply chain, our global sourcing programmes have already
generated considerable benefits and there is potential for much more.
There are currently around 30 co-ordinated programmes in Europe and
almost 70 in North America, with many more at the planning stage. 
We are also making significant investments in technology that will 
enable us to work faster and more efficiently. The financial management
system, which will generate consistent financial data across the Group,
is now live at Wolseley Canada, Wolseley UK and Stock Building Supply
(“Stock”), with the remaining companies scheduled to follow within the
next few months. We are currently piloting a warehouse management
system, developing a new HR system and are also considering other
software applications, including budgeting, business intelligence and
customer and employee portal software.
Our investment in people continues at a record pace. In 2005 we expect 
to recruit over 1,300 graduates, up from 754 in 2004/05 – these are the
talented, committed people who will underpin our future, ensuring that
the huge investments we are making in the business will have the right
leadership for the future.
Current employees are equally important and we invest to support 
the wealth of talent amongst our leaders and managers. In 2004/05 we
invested £12 million in training and, as part of this, doubled the number
of places available at the Wolseley programmes we run at Darden in 
the USA and IMD in Switzerland. Our objective is simple: to improve the
quality of our people in order to improve the service to our customers
and grow our business.
Our most recent Wolseley Cup – the internal Group-wide competition
that encourages innovation and best practice – focused on ‘Developing
our Human Resources’. What is clear to me from the entries this
competition attracts each year is the energy, expertise and sheer 
spirit that exists across all our businesses. The first three Wolseley Cup
competitions have concentrated on three of the most important aspects
of our business: on customers, on employees and, in the coming year,
‘Adding Value to Internal Communications’.
We aim to meet customer demands by providing
the products and services they need, when and
where they need them, at prices that help them
achieve their objectives. The Cup – and the range
of ongoing initiatives it has inspired – is a snapshot
of how we are continuing to improve what 
we believe to be an impressive track record 
of achievement.
£239m
spent on capital expenditure,  
up by 54% on 2004
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 10 Group Chief Executive’s review 11 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Re-organising for the future
At a time when we delivered record performance
for the ninth year running, we also undertook
major organisational changes to position us well
for the future, demonstrating yet again our ability 
to achieve today, while investing for tomorrow. 
Wolseley UK reported excellent results, recording double-digit growth.
During the year the business continued a major re-branding and 
re-structuring programme, which included a transformation into one
cohesive organisation, with a new headquarters and national distribution
centre being built in Royal Leamington Spa. The re-organisation has
been carried out swiftly and efficiently and we expect it to have a very
positive impact on our future performance.
Early in 2005 I was pleased to welcome Rob Marchbank as CEO of
Wolseley Europe. I have worked with Rob for over 20 years and he has
been a key player in the development of the current Wolseley strategy. 
He knows the Group, he knows our objectives – and I know he will 
be able to work well with our European businesses. We have been
restructuring and reorganising across the region and we are pleased 
that, despite this and fairly flat market conditions, we have nevertheless
grown market share and most of our businesses have delivered improved
performance. I am confident that under Rob and his management team
we will see even stronger performance in the future.
In North America, our businesses have again achieved excellent results
and made big investments in process, distribution and supply chain
improvements. Ferguson aggressively outperformed in its markets, 
and delivered a stellar performance with exceptional organic growth.
Stock had a terrific year with double-digit growth and an expanded
market share. Wolseley Canada grew market share, and achieved yet
another year of growth in double digits – something they have done 
every year since they joined the Group.
The establishment of the new North American organisation at the 
end of the year was an important step to building even further on 
this success. I am very excited by the prospect of all three Wolseley
businesses on the continent – Ferguson and Stock in the USA together
with Wolseley Canada – working more closely than ever before to
accelerate growth and improve customer service. 
The new organisation will be led by Chip Hornsby
until early 2006 when he will begin preparations 
to succeed me as CEO of the Group. Chip is 
a man I have worked closely with for 24 years 
and in whom I have total confidence. In his 
North American role, Chip is able to draw on 
the experience and expertise of Fenton Hord,
President and CEO of Stock, and of Paul
Lachance, President and CEO of Wolseley
Canada, and their respective management teams. 
It is important to emphasise that the three
companies remain distinct businesses and retain
their individual strengths, cultures and identities,
but I know we will see definite benefits from the
new structure.
£6.6bn
combined Wolseley 
North American sales
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 11 +
16.8
%
growth in Operating Profit 
while investing for the future
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Achieving today while investing for tomorrow
We have recently announced that I will retire 
from the Company in July 2006, by which time 
I will have spent almost 40 years of my life with
Ferguson and Wolseley. During that time the
Company has gone from strength to strength
and I am really confident that under Chip’s
leadership we will see even further growth 
and greater success.
It is an honour to lead this fine Company and 
I am focused on ensuring that when I handover 
to Chip next year, he will have the strongest
platform from which to continue to build.
I am excited about the investments we are 
making and confident that we are positioned 
to be even more competitive in the years ahead. 
Doubtless there will be challenges, but I am upbeat
about our prospects, buoyed by the knowledge
that our European and new North American
organisations will continue to focus on our key
strategic drivers and strive for our constant 
pursuit of double-digit growth.
Our people are at the heart of everything that 
we do and it is their skill and enthusiasm that 
is behind our ability to sustain growth, year 
on year on year. I thank them for their support, 
their ability and above all for their commitment. 
I am proud of every one of them, proud of 
our businesses and immensely proud of our
achievements during the past year.
This has been a momentous year – and I am
confident that the investments we are making
today will ensure an even more successful future.
Charles A Banks
Group Chief Executive
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  11:26 am  Page 12 Group Chief Executive’s review 13 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Q. How are we   
sustaining our growth? 
A. By investing in our 
infrastructure, by  
developing our people  
and by delivering 
a broader range of  
products and services   
to an ever expanding   
customer base…
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  11:27 am  Page 13 INVESTIN
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 14 We succeed in markets across 
13 countries because we meet the 
needs of a wide range of customers.
We are never complacent and we constantly
look for ways in which we can operate faster,
more efficiently and deliver greater value to 
our customers.
From new distribution centres to our global
sourcing programme, we invest in assets,
organisational structures, technology and
systems that provide benefits to our customers
and ensure we have the foundations 
for long-term sustained success.
FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS NG:
Investing for our customers 15
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 15 Stock Building Supply
Distribution Centres
Ferguson Distribution Centres
Proposed Ferguson Distribution Centres
NEW DISTRIBUTION
CENTRES ARE HELPING US
MOVE MORE PRODUCTS,
MORE QUICKLY AND
EFFICIENTLY, TO MORE
CUSTOMERS
77 ,000
different items available from our
new Distribution Centre in Iowa
our aim for on-time complete deliveries
95
%
+
16 Investing for our customers Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
US Distribution Centre locations
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 16 Investing for our customers 17 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Investing in logistics management
We are continuing to evolve and develop the concept
of our Distribution Centres (“DCs”) being at the heart
of our integrated supply chain. We are now rolling
them out across the Group and they are integral to
our ability to improve service and reduce costs. During
the last year we completed work on four DCs in the
USA that provided a further 1.2 million sq ft of space.
In Waterloo, Iowa, USA, we have opened a £15 million
over 600,000 sq ft DC that is helping us improve
service to our branches – and therefore our customers.
With 225 employees and around 60 truck loads
coming in or going out each day, the DC is already
processing products worth some $40 million per
month and provides our branch network with access
to 77,000 different items. Our Front Royal, Virginia, DC
has been expanded and is now serving over 100
locations in the Eastern USA with more than 29,000
discrete items from 200 different suppliers. Over 25
trucks and 1,200 courier packages pass through its
doors daily. We generally achieve our 95% target for
on-time complete deliveries which gives us a real
competitive advantage.
Our Canadian business opened the first of three
planned Regional Supply Centres (“RSCs”) during 
the year. The 42,500 sq ft facility in Burlington, 
Ontario will be followed by a 61,715 sq ft RSC 
in Quebec in October 2005. Locations in 
Western Canada are currently under review.
In Europe we are implementing a logistics strategy that
will result in a more strategic approach to supply chain
management across the Continent. Wolseley UK has
begun work on a new £100 million distribution network
in the UK to complement our three large, existing DCs.
Investing in international synergies 
We search the world for the best products at the 
best prices.
As part of our global sourcing programme, we are
currently rolling out a Common Supplier Strategy 
for Europe to help standardise quality, lower costs 
and improve product availability and choice for our
customers. During 2004/05 we signed a number 
of international agreements with suppliers.
In tandem with this initiative, our European businesses
are working together to co-ordinate brands across
national boundaries. Increasingly, customers in
locations from Paisley to Paris will see similarities
amongst our family of low-cost, high-quality brands
– including Wolseley own-brand products on ranges
sourced from low-cost countries.
We are also looking at ways to leverage our global
buying power and expect to put in place an increasing
number of supply contracts on a global level.
42,500
square feet in new Ontario RSC
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:16 am  Page 17 WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  2:27 pm  Page 18 OUR 
PEOPLE
Developing our people 19
Our customers know 
that our people are
amongst the brightest,
most knowledgeable 
and customer-focused 
in the business
and we constantly invest 
in recruitment, executive
education and training
schemes to keep it this way.
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  2:27 pm  Page 19 WITHOUT THE BEST PEOPLE
WE CANNOT SUCCEED.
THAT’S WHY IN 2004/05 
WE CONTINUED TO OPERATE
PROGRAMMES THAT ATTRACT,
DEVELOP AND RETAIN THE
HIGH QUALITY INDIVIDUALS
WHO HAVE THE EXPERTISE
AND LEADERSHIP QUALITIES 
THAT WILL UNDERPIN 
OUR GROWTH PLANS
754
graduates recruited in 2004/05
20 Developing our people Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
£12m
invested in training to develop
talent amongst our managers
and leaders at all levels.
For our executives we offer
programmes at Darden at the
University of Virginia and IMD 
in Switzerland. In 2004/05 
149 executives attended 
these courses.
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:17 am  Page 20 75,250
training days provided in 2004/05
Developing talent across boundaries
Across Wolseley, we currently have in excess of 1,500 people in leadership
and management positions who joined through graduate programmes.
Now moving into its second year, our European Graduate Programme
(“EGP”) is one of the Group’s initiatives to cross international boundaries.
Graduates, who are all multi-lingual, are recruited onto a two-year
programme, spending half their time in the UK and the remainder 
in another European operating company. The objective is to build 
an internationally-minded management cadre able to move effortlessly
between cultures as well as between languages.
The EGP complements a range of dedicated, successful and rapidly
expanding, business-specific graduate programmes. In 2004/05 
we welcomed 754 graduates to the Group, an increase of 228 on 
the previous year. In 2005/06 we expect to recruit over 1,300 graduates.
Encouraging talent across the Group
The 2005 Wolseley Cup focused on ‘Developing our Human Resources’,
reflecting the Group-wide commitment to people and HR-related issues.
The team from Stock took the trophy for its ‘Race for Excellence’ project,
against stiff competition from a further 41 entries. ‘Race for Excellence’ 
was developed to enhance employees’ understanding of their individual
role within the Stock business at 11 branches around Atlanta, Georgia. 
In second place, the team from Wolseley Austria used youth, enthusiasm
and their understanding of their peer group to create a new approach to
school leaver recruitment.
Investing in the talents of our 60,000 people
The Group has a strong commitment to training, with our operating
companies running programmes ranging from product knowledge 
to leadership development.
Sharing talent across companies
The International Assignment project is 
an important way in which expertise can
be shared across the business whilst also
providing individuals with the opportunity
to develop their careers. For example, 
the team responsible for Project SWIFT –
our Group-wide IT initiative – has included
a number of Europeans moving to the
project head office in Newport News,
Virginia, USA.
Developing our people 21 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:17 am  Page 21 DELIVER
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:17 am  Page 22 We deliver our products 
and services on time and 
on budget to thousands 
of different customers 
every day. We deliver growth
– over the past 20 years our
business has doubled in size
every five years. This impressive
performance is appreciated 
by all our stakeholders, from
employees, customers and
suppliers to investors and 
the communities in which 
we operate.
GROWTH RING:
Delivering growth 23
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:17 am  Page 23 24 Delivering growth Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
WE ARE FOCUSED ON
GROWING OUR BUSINESS,
ORGANICALLY AND 
THROUGH ACQUISITIONS
acquisitions spend for the year ended 31 July 2005
£431 m
3,920
branches in 13 countries 
as at 31 July 2005
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:17 am  Page 24 60
XpressNet stores in 2004/05
5.5% growth through acquisitions
During the year we invested a total of £431 million 
on 26 acquisitions. These acquisitions and those 
from last year contributed 5.5% of our sales growth 
in 2004/05.
In Ireland we completed the acquisition of Brooks for
£137 million. Brooks is the best-known timber and
builders’ merchant in Ireland and is a superb fit with
Heatmerchants, the leading Irish lightside distributor. 
In Italy, we purchased Iser Zauli, a long-established
family business in the Romagna and Marche regions
south of Venice. Iser Zauli is an excellent complement
to our Manzardo business and extends our footprint 
in Italy. 
Further notable acquisitions included Parnell-Martin, 
a plumbing distributor with 17 locations in the Eastern
USA, Record Supply Company of Nevada and
California and Duval Matériaux de Construction of
France. At the end of the year we acquired Vegas
General Construction, a turnkey supplier of construction
materials and services. This is Stock’s first entry into
the Las Vegas market – one of the largest and 
fastest-growing housing markets in the USA.
8.7% growth through organic means
More than 160 Wolseley locations were added in the
last 12 months, and around 10,000 new employees
have been welcomed into the Wolseley Group.
At the same time, our businesses have teamed,
shared and supported each other to expand product
ranges, learn new skills and meet customer needs in
new, different and better ways.
In Calais, PBM and Brossette have opened their first
joint branch, enabling customers to source building
materials and plumbing and heating supplies from a
single location. Wolseley UK is following a similar route
and has opened new ‘super sites’ in Middlesbrough
and in Highgate, London, where customers can
access all the company’s offerings, across all
operating brands, on one site.
In the USA, our Ferguson and Stock businesses are
increasingly sharing branch premises, benefiting from
lower costs and access to a broader customer base.
Since the Stock store in Little River, South Carolina,
incorporated a Ferguson Express counter in 2004, 
the location has experienced organic growth of 
18% driven by a 10% increase in walk-in traffic. 
Ferguson is making good progress with the roll-out 
of the XpressNet concept. 55 have come on stream
during 2004/05, with even more due next year.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
WO40004_Wolseley R&A_01-45  7/10/05  12:17 am  Page 25
