 8 Wolseley plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
T o be successful we must focus on 
enduring customer franchises, with top 
tier competitive positions where we 
choose to compete – we must also 
focus on where we can achieve the best 
ﬁ nancial returns. Equally , we need to have 
a clear understanding of the best way 
to develop our most attractive businesses 
to be even more successful in the future. 
Group Chief Executive’s review
Ian K Meakins Group Chief Executive Wolseley plc 9 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The road to proﬁ table growth
As this is my ﬁ rst review for Wolseley 
shareholders, I should open by saying 
how aware I am of the responsibility for 
leading this Company into better times.  
Wolseley has a great importance to 
thousands of customers, to many 
corporations worldwide, to our 
shareholders and to all those in the 
communities we serve. In common 
with many businesses, we are facing 
tough times and the downturn in our 
markets and the wider economies of 
the world shows little sign of abating.  
A key short-term priority will be to steer 
the business through this, to support 
our customers while working steadfastly 
to restore Wolseley to proﬁ table growth 
in the future. 
Over the past few weeks since joining 
Wolseley and visiting many of our 
operations, I have seen at ﬁ rst hand the 
inherent strengths of our businesses.  
We have leading market positions in 
many of the segments in which we 
operate, the quality and dedication to 
our customers of our front line people is 
impressive, and the business model is 
fundamentally sound. Wolseley operates 
in an attractive industry sector where 
the long-term drivers for construction 
materials distribution are positive in all 
the geographic regions where we 
operate. Ageing housing stock and 
demand for new housing and 
remodelling should remain strong over 
the long term and the vast majority of 
the businesses have excellent customer 
franchises and operate in highly 
fragmented markets. There is lots of 
growth and market share to go for.
However, the recession and its recent 
impact on Wolseley’s ﬁ nancial results 
highlight the cyclicality of the business. 
While a downturn was anticipated, 
no one could have foretold the 
unprecedented market disruption and 
global economic downturn of the last 
12 months. With roots in economic 
imbalances across many countries, 
the downturn has weakened many and 
the path to recovery is far from certain. 
In a number of ways the recent 
economic turmoil has redrawn the 
map in terms of future trajectories 
of our markets and consequently will 
require Wolseley to adapt to these harsh 
new conditions.
Continuing to drive 
performance
With this call to action as a backdrop, 
in the current environment we will 
remain focused on driving operational 
performance. We will continue to lower 
the cost base, but without losing sight 
of the need to position Wolseley strongly 
for the upturn. We will do this prudently 
and according to the markets we serve. 
At the same time we will sustain our 
businesses that continue to operate 
through unprecedented pressures, 
challenges and change. What the last 
12 months has shown is that actual 
conditions have proven to be far worse 
than anyone expected, so we cannot be 
complacent about what the coming 
months might bring. 
Alongside proﬁ tability, the delivery of 
strong cash ﬂ ow is also extremely 
important. Our aim will be to deliver this 
through revenue growth and operating 
efﬁ ciency, supported by disciplined use 
of capital expenditure and working 
capital. The delivery of strong cash 
ﬂ ow provides us with the opportunity 
to reinvest that cash to grow the 
business and to reward shareholders. 
It is encouraging that during 2009 
challenging targets for working capital 
have been exceeded and across both 
continents actions have been taken 
to reduce capital expenditure and 
dispose of non-core assets and 
businesses. We will continue to keep 
the organisation focused on driving 
sustained working capital improvements 
and keeping up the momentum.
Finally, we will continue to place a 
huge degree of emphasis on improving 
customer service at the local level so 
we beat the competition where it counts 
– at the front line. Very often Wolseley’s 
businesses compete close to where 
our customers operate their businesses. 
This makes it particularly important that 
we are better than the competition, 
especially in terms of product availability, 
competitive pricing, advice, correct 
billing and collections, as well as on-time 
in full delivery. To achieve this we need 
motivated and skilled people at the front 
line, supported by accountable local 
management. I passionately believe that 
excellent customer service is the heart 
of every successful business and an 
area where we can always improve.
Prioritising future investment
While managing short-term performance 
remains critical, we must also prepare 
the Company for when our markets 
recover. The geographic markets 
which Wolseley operates in, whilst 
vast in terms of overall size, are also 
fragmented. What is more, each 
business has different characteristics 
in terms of mix of new residential 
construction and repairs, maintenance 
and improvement business, the degree 
of supplier or customer consolidation, 
the customer mix and product mix – all 
therefore have different gross margins 
and returns on capital. 
In the current market conditions we 
have to be far more rigorous in where 
we choose to compete and win as well 
as make sure that the businesses are 
capable of the best performance and 
get the resources needed. To be 
successful we must focus on enduring 
customer franchises, with top tier 
competitive positions where we choose 
to compete – we must also focus on 
where we can achieve the best ﬁ nancial 
returns. Equally, we need to have a 
clear understanding of the best way to 
develop our most attractive businesses 
to be even more successful in the 
future. Consequently, to identify and 
prioritise where and how we want to 
win, I have recently initiated a review 
to assess Wolseley’s portfolio in each 
geography and we will share the 
outcomes with shareholders later 
in the ﬁ nancial year.  
In management style we want to be 
purposeful, to “make it happen” for 
our customers and then for our 
shareholders. We will anchor our efforts 
in securing a strategic understanding of 
the businesses, focusing on long-term, 
high quality proﬁ tability and delivering 
customer satisfaction. In doing this we 
will ensure that when the markets turn 
and we get back to growth, we will 
do so by developing and building on 
Wolseley’s strengths and the most 
attractive businesses to get the best 
returns for our shareholders. 
Despite the challenging outlook, our 
businesses all around the world are 
inherently sound and fully engaged in 
sustaining as robust a performance 
as the environment permits. And the 
restructuring we have embarked on will 
continue to see high levels of activity 
designed to reposition Wolseley 
successfully. My special thanks go to 
all my colleagues around the world 
serving our customers every day, 
and I look forward to working with 
them in redoubling our efforts to move 
Wolseley forward again and delivering 
proﬁ table growth.
Ian K Meakins Group Chief Executive
