 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
8
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
In the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2007, total Group revenue 
from continuing operations was £2,737.0 million. This represents 
an increase of 4.0 per cent. There was a marked contrast 
between the performance of the Retail business and that of 
our Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses. 
Overall Retail sales decreased by 5.5 per cent as we continued 
to experience decline in core markets and increasing competition.
Sales in the Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses
increased by 29.7 per cent as our customer base outperformed
the market and we saw the benefit of acquisitions made during 
the year .
Adjusted profit from continuing operations (before taxation,
exceptional items, adjustment for fixed rental uplifts and
amortisation of certain intangible assets) was £21.8 million. 
The results have benefited from a review of accounting
methodologies, which improve profits by £9 million. In addition,
there have been a number of one-off costs and benefits, which
approximately offset each other . These changes are fully detailed
in the Financial Review.
The results reflect a highly challenging retail environment, a 
year of investment in our multichannel capability and store 
estate and a year of change for our Entertainment Wholesale 
and Publishing business. 
Retail
During the year , like-for-like Retail sales fell by 6.6 per cent. 
The adjusted loss from the continuing Retail operations was 
£12.9 million against a profit in the prior year of £1 7.1 million. 
It is obviously disappointing that Retail moved into a loss. The 
key driver was not failure to control margins or costs but rather the
underlying sales performance, which was worse than anticipated.
A combination of factors held back the sales performance, the
most material of which were: a marked decline in our share of the
music market, coupled with significant price deflation; continued
expansion of the supermarkets into non-food markets; and
declining levels of high street footfall particularly in the summer .
Across the categories, trading performance was variable. The
strongest area was the T oys and Stationery business unit. Here,
absolute sales increased year-on-year , reflecting a gain in market
share and evidencing the value of a differentiated product offer . 
Our Chad Valley brand continues to underpin performance.
T revor Bish-Jones
In the 53 weeks ended 
3 February 2007, total Group
revenue from continuing
operations was £2,737.0
million. This represents an 
increase of 4.0 per cent.  Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
9
The weakest sales performances were in the Entertainment
sectors and the Confectionery product categories. A recurrent
theme in these markets is the increasingly commoditised nature 
of the product. A chart CD or a Christmas tin of confectionery
provides a very visible price point to customers where retailers 
can offer little or no differentiation. As a consequence, these 
types of product are used selectively to give a headline price 
from which a retailer hopes to convey an overall perception 
of low prices. This dynamic has resulted in significant retail price 
deflation compounded by volume decline in some markets. 
The opportunity going forward is to reduce exposure to these
types of markets and further differentiate our product offering.
When considering the Entertainment markets it is important
however not to view all formats in the same way . The music
market is the most challenged not only because of increasing
commoditisation but also from the impact of digital downloading
and sales through internet retailers. The overall DVD market
continues to show volume growth and should benefit from the
stimulus of High Definition formats. In this market we accepted 
a loss in share as we chose to compete selectively on the major
new releases over the Christmas period.
At the start of the 2006/07 financial year , we expected that both 
Sony and Nintendo would launch new Games formats in the
autumn, with good product availability expected at Christmas.
This proved not to be the case, with Sony delaying PS3 until
March 2007 and Nintendo launching Wii in November with
insufficient product to meet demand. Despite these factors,
across the year our Games share has grown and gives us 
a good base from which to capitalise on what we expect 
to be a growth market in 2007.
Of all Entertainment markets, Books has been the most
predictable and less exposed to the vagaries of the technology
cycle, whilst consistently delivering annual sales growth of 2–3 
per cent. The Books offer in Woolworths was expanded during 
the year and produced good year-on-year sales increases off 
a small base.
Apart from T oys and Stationery , two other categories which
generated more cash profit than the prior year were Clothing 
and Electrical and Outdoor . The Clothing performance reflects 
the strength of the Ladybird brand which benefited from the
introduction of ‘Ladybird’ shops into 92 stores in the autumn.
Since the relaunch, volume market share on clothing has 
started to grow. In Electrical and Outdoor , it has been primarily 
the performance of Outdoor that led to the increased cash
contribution. This is due to a number of factors; firstly , the very 
hot weather over the summer and secondly the success of the
multichannel strategy , which enabled us to offer what can be 
very large items such as swing sets and trampolines. Sales of
Electricals were disappointing.
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
2002/03
2003/04
2004/05
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Retail Margin
(basis points improvement)
50
50
50
50
40
40
40
40
40
40
40
50
20
50
50
20 105
50
50
50
2001/02
2002/03
2003/04
2004/05
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Retail Shrinkage
(£m)
36.5
36.3
42.2
41.8
47.7
53.2
Like-for-like Sales
-6.6%
Service Centre — Calls Received
846,000
90.0%
Service Level 
The Woolworths Customer Support department handles
all customer enquiries and complaints for all stores and 
also our websites. With the launch of the Big Red Book 
in autumn 2006 the number of contacts increased significantly
from over 200,000 in 2005/06 to over 800,000 in 2006/07, 
whilst a high level of service has been maintained. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
10
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
The Home area was relatively encouraging and is benefiting in
particular from higher availability levels in standard listed basic
lines, following work on the supply chain. During the year we 
have continued to invest in and develop the Retail business to
improve the underlying strength of our operational capability 
and customer offer , to set us up well for the future.
Multichannel
An area of particular focus continued to be the enhancement 
of our multichannel capability . During the year we introduced 
new capabilities which allow customers to have access to over
260,000 products which are now available to be ordered either 
at home or in-store with delivery to either the customer’ s home or
for collection in-store. This service has been very well received by
customers and in our peak week the service generated 155,000
orders and £6.4 million of sales. Sales were driven in particular 
by the first ‘Big Red Book’, our new catalogue that featured 5,000
products. As this part of the Woolworths proposition was new 
to customers, it was important to provide a good first experience
of the service. T o facilitate this, we incurred some additional costs
of circa £4–5 million on new warehouse capability and supporting
delivery lead times. These extra costs will not recur in 2007/08. 
For the full year , our multichannel sales were £77.2 million and 
it is on this base that we build in 2007/08.
Store Refurbishment
We have continued to make significant investment in the store
estate. This year saw the effective completion of the 10/10 store
refurbishment programme. During the year we refitted a further 93
stores bringing the total number of stores to 203. The sales uplift
from these 93 stores was 4 per cent ahead of the control group.
We have now reached a position where the majority of the larger 
and medium size stores in highly competed markets have been
refitted. This has been a necessary action as non-refitted stores
looked increasingly dated as the rest of the high street is
upgraded. Going forward, aside from the obvious customer
benefit of better looking, easier to shop stores, our performance
will benefit from reduced pre-opening costs of circa £5 million 
and reduced levels of maintenance capital reflecting the improved
condition of the estate.
The 5/5 programme for smaller stores continued to evolve during 
the year . Many of the learnings from the early 5/5 conversions
were introduced across the entire estate. Indeed the entry into
multichannel and the use of catalogues was the original basis 
for the  5/5 concept. The performance of the most recent
generation of 5/5 stores is delivering an uplift of 5.5 per cent
against the control stores. This is in part due to the introduction 
of intensified planograms and reallocation of space. As with 
the multichannel offer , we endeavour to identify ways to access
these benefits on a chain-wide basis that does not require
significant capital expenditure or time delay . 
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Store Self-audit
Compliance points score (out of 100)
77.4
74.9
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — T ransport
Vehicle distance (kilometres millions)
27.2
30.5
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — T ransport
Fuel consumed (litres millions)
8.0
8.8
2004/05
2006
2007
Group KPIs — Retail Stock
(£m)
290.6
298.6
2005/06
2006/07
Group KPIs — Mystery Shopper
Service standards (out of 100)
76.4
73.3
The store self-audit is a scheme to check that our stores 
are compliant with Company procedures and also external
factors such as trading standards and health and safety
issues. During 2006/07 the average store score has 
increased by 3.3 per cent to 77.4 as store standards 
continue to improve.
All stores receive regular visits from ‘mystery shoppers’. 
This allows us to gain a true reflection of how our stores are
performing and to benchmark our service standards. The
Christmas cycle is a key review to ensure the stores are ready
for the busy Christmas trading period, so an average increase 
of 4.2 per cent demonstrates improved customer service
during our busiest period.
In evolving the supply chain, vehicle mileage has been 
reduced by 10.8 per cent and fuel consumption has
decreased by 9.1 per cent. This has been achieved through
better vehicle utilisation and the use of double-deck trailers. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
11
A further development of our customer proposition has been
trialled in four stores where we have completely focused the 
offer on Children’ s products. In what we term ‘Kids+’, we have
endeavoured to do this in a way that provides a more exciting
store environment. The trial has provided us with a lot of learning 
in terms of what customers respond to. As with 5/5, there are
some clear lessons which we plan to roll out to as many stores 
as possible during 2007. 
Evolving the Supply Chain
Given the changing demands of customers and the need to
deploy stock in the most effective manner , we continue to work
hard to evolve our physical distribution network. Ultimately , the
network will need to deliver , cost effectively , the ability to move 
an individual customer-ordered item alongside bulk replenishment
orders with increased frequency . We are beginning to see the
benefits of the systems and distribution network changes we 
have made. Stock levels have on average been £5.1 million below
the prior year whilst availability has been improved. We plan to
rationalise the network further and access some step changes 
in cost levels.
Keeping costs controlled during the year was an important theme
particularly as sales were weak. T otal comparable costs increased
by £12.4 million, reflecting cost increases in some areas such as
rents, rates and energy , where there was little management action
that could be taken to mitigate increases. These three cost lines
accounted for £12.5 million of the increase partly offset by net cost
savings in other areas. Stock levels were well controlled during the
year particularly in light of the sales shortfall. This was achieved on
the back of improved information systems and the introduction of
more robust control processes. It was not just the level of stock
that was improved but also stock quality .
Improved stock control was also a factor in helping to improve
gross margin delivery in the business. T otal gross margin improved
by 105 basis points following a series of initiatives across all
business units. Of the total gain, 19 basis points are due to the 
mix effect of reduced sales in Entertainment. The rest of the gain
reflects better cost price and other margin support negotiation,
sourcing more product from our established Hong Kong and
recently opened Shanghai offices and reducing exposure to
markdown through more accurate forecasting. 
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
12
The phasing of the margin gain across the year saw margin flat in
the first half and an improvement in the second half of 190 basis
points. We thus enter the new year with the benefit of a higher 
run rate on our margin as compared to last year . Summarising 
our Retail performance, it has to be said that the underlying sales
and profit numbers are disappointing. It was a year in which we
radically enhanced our customer offer albeit with some attached
one-off costs. Looking forward, we can see further opportunity 
to enhance our efficiency but we will need to make progress on
driving the sales line. The investment in our multichannel capability 
will assist this, as will taking the lessons from the 5/5 stores and
the Kids+ initiative.
Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing
This has been a transformative year in the Entertainment
Wholesale and Publishing businesses where we have been able 
to enhance materially the underlying quality of and prospects for
the division. T otal adjusted profits for this part of the Group fell 
5.9 per cent. This reflects stable profitability from 2entertain, our
joint venture with BBC Worldwide and a similar level of releases 
of historic accruals to the prior year . The adjusted profits of
Entertainment UK together with THE and Bertram from their
respective dates of acquisition, after a £2.4 million provision 
in relation to Music Zone (a THE customer which went into
administration in January 2007) were down £2.7 million on the
previous year . This reflects a very active year in which the impact
of improved trading terms granted to retain the T esco business
until April 2007 were largely offset by growth and efficiency
improvements.
Entertainment UK (EUK)
At the start of the financial year EUK was grappling with the
confirmed termination of the core supply contract with T esco 
in April 2007. With T esco then representing over 40 per cent of
EUK’ s turnover there were potentially far reaching consequences
attached to this change. As a result, a key focus in the past year 
has been to replace the T esco business. We have sought to do
this by widening both the customer base and spread of markets 
in which we operate. Three pivotal actions now place us in a
position where we have succeeded in creating a much broader
customer base, a significant exposure to the growing Books
business and replaced all the T esco sales volume.
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
Group KPIs — EUK Unit Handling Cost
-9.3%
reduction in 
pence per unit 
handling cost
Group KPIs — 2entertain DVD Rankings
(source British Video Association)
TV Genre Ranked 1 st
Sports and Fitness Genre Ranked 2nd
Special Interest Genre Ranked 2nd Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Directors’ Report Business Review — Chief Executive
13
Firstly , the acquisition of T otal Home Entertainment (THE) in
September 2006 gave access to a significant number of new
customers and an entrée into primary distribution. Secondly , the
acquisition of Bertram Group in January 2007. Bertram is a large
books wholesaler servicing most sectors of the market including
library services and international markets. Finally , securing 
a contract to buy and supply product for Virgin Retail for a 
three-year term with effect from May 2007.
The above acquisitions and contract win now offer the opportunity
to rationalise the physical infrastructure of the business and
thereby access an array of combination benefits. Planning for 
this is now well under way . 
This activity has required considerable management focus 
and it is to the credit of the EUK and THE operational teams 
that they have continued to maintain good levels of service to
existing customers. They have done this at a time when sales for
the year have continued to grow. T otal third-party EUK and THE
sales in 2006/07 were £861.4 million, an increase of 33 per cent
(8.3 per cent excluding THE). EUK continues to develop its 
digital capability and now has some 600,000 tracks on its digital
database. Revenues generated from digital downloading remain
small. The relationship with the jukebox network operator ,
Inspired, continues to develop with 1,290 boxes installed and
plans to increase this to 2,700 by 2008. The immediate challenge
facing EUK is the realisation of permissible combination benefits
from its acquisitions in a manner that protects customer service
levels. Over the longer term we will continue to build EUK’ s
position in providing retailers with supply chain solutions in
markets where there is a clear need for a point of consolidation.
2entertain
2entertain had another successful year . Sales have grown 
slightly to £194.9 million and dividend flow from the joint venture
increased to £11.6 million. There was a reduction in sales achieved
by the Demon Music Group business, where price erosion in the
full price new release market ate into Demon’ s core mid price
market. The Christmas DVD performance was evenly spread
across the release schedule without a clear ‘runaway success’.
The absence of a ‘runaway success’ exposes an attractive 
feature of the rights that 2entertain has access to. The business
has secured access to some enduring franchises that will sell over
a sustained period of time. Examples are ‘Dr Who’, the ‘Planet
Earth’ documentaries and ‘T op Gear’.
Now in its second full year of trading, the joint venture is well 
past its integration period and is increasingly looking to new
opportunities. We continue to forge relationships with the best 
of the independent production base. International sales and
revenues have also progressed well rising by 16.7 per cent. 
This remains an area of opportunity , particularly where broadcast
programming is reaching wider audiences and driving DVD sales.
Outlook
We enter 2007 having completed a number of major investments.
We can see opportunity both in the multichannel arena and in the
chain-wide deployment of learnings from our store development
work. With tight control of costs and a higher gross margin, this
provides the opportunity to drive improved financial performance
in the retail business, notwithstanding the challenging retail
environment which we expect to continue.
For EUK the agenda for the coming year is clear . It must 
manage the permitted integration of the acquired businesses, 
the Virgin contract and the departure of T esco. This will result 
in some one-off costs to deliver synergy benefits. 2entertain
continues to trade robustly . 
Sales for the short seven-week period to 24 March 2007 are
reasonably comparable to the prior year . In the period, Woolworths
like-for-like sales were up 0.8 per cent. We will provide a further
update on trading in our Interim Management Statement at the
time of our AGM in June.
T revor Bish-Jones
Chief Executive
27 March 2007
Directors’ Report 
Business Review
Chief Executive’ s Report
