 Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman’s Statement
2
Chairman’ s Statement
Gerald Corbett
The year was difficult for W oolworths Group. Profits fell on the back 
of weak sales in Retail although significant advances were made
within our multichannel business. Within EUK, the acquisitions 
of THE and Bertram together with winning the contract to supply
Virgin Retail places the business on a stronger footing. Our 
40 per cent owned publishing joint venture with BBC W orldwide,
2entertain, continues to do well. 
Profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptional 
items fell from £43.7 million to £7.3 million. Adjusted profit 
(which is before tax, exceptional items, adjustment for fixed 
rental uplifts and amortisation of certain intangible assets) 
fell from £57.7 million to £21.8 million.
Basic earnings per share improved from 0.7 pence to 
0.9 pence. Adjusted earnings per share, which removes the 
effect of exceptional items, the adjustment for fixed rental uplifts
and amortisation of certain intangible assets fell from 2.8 pence 
to 1.2 pence. 
Average net debt was £113 million, an increase of £76 million 
on the previous year largely reflecting the acquisition of 
THE and the completion of the 10/10 and multichannel 
investment programmes.
In our retail business the rapid decline in the value of CD and 
DVD markets resulting from price deflation and the increase in
digital downloading made a profit decline inevitable. This was
compounded by the cost of completing the refit programme, 
the cost of the investment in multichannel retailing and stock
clearance activity in the first half, none of which should recur this
year . Gross margins in the year improved by 105 basis points and
stock was kept tightly under control, but a sales decline of 5.5 per
cent and the above factors pushed our Retail operation into an
adjusted loss of £12.9 million. 
Gerald Corbett
Much has changed during my
six years at the Woolworths
Group. I am pleased with the
business we have built in the
Publishing and Wholesaling
side, but Woolworths Retail’ s
recent performance has 
been disappointing. Woolworths Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chairman’s Statement
3
This performance is clearly not acceptable. The plan for this year 
is to return the division to profit by keeping costs under tight
control, improving the sales performance with a further expansion
of our multichannel capability and the launch of further ‘Big Red
Books’ (the Woolworths catalogue) during the year . 
A new brand called ‘Worth It’ of really competitive entry price 
point items will be launched across the chain to improve footfall
and value perception. Better buying and tighter management of
the sales mix should result in another year of margin improvement. 
It will not be an easy year and we expect a further decline in the
market for entertainment products. 
Third-party sales in our Entertainment Wholesaling and Publishing
divisions increased 29.7 per cent to £923.8 million although
adjusted profits fell by £3.3 million impacted by the change of
terms in our business with T esco which business ceases in April
this year and after a £2.4 million provision in relation to Music
Zone, a THE customer which went into administration in 
January 2007. 
However , the loss of the T esco contract, announced last year , 
will not be as damaging as once feared. The acquisition of THE
and with it the Sainsbury’ s account and the winning of the Virgin
Retail business should more than replace the lost T esco contract. 
The acquisition of Bertram makes the division the leading book
wholesaler in the UK. Books is a stable market and this division
can now look forward to a stable and positive future with a good
spread of business and a diversified customer base.
These acquisitions and the winning of the Virgin Retail business
with the consequential investment in working capital will increase
the Group’ s average debt. All these are profitable investments
which will improve the Group’ s financing ratios.
2entertain, our 40 per cent owned joint venture with BBC
Worldwide, continues to trade well, contributing a similar level 
as last year to Group profits. It is an excellent business with 
a leading market position benefiting from privileged access 
to all of the BBC’ s current and historic video content.
We have maintained the final dividend which gives a full year
dividend of 1.77 pence per share, an increase of 1.1 per cent 
on last year . 
I have decided to step down as Chairman on completion 
of my second three-year term at this year’ s AGM on 6 June. 
Richard North, who joined our Board in October , will take over 
as Chairman from that date. Richard has a wealth of business
experience having served during his career as a Chief Executive
for Intercontinental Hotels, Finance Director of Bass plc, Finance
Director of the Burton Group and as a non-executive director 
of Asda. I am sure he will work well with our Chief Executive,
T revor Bish-Jones and his team. During the year T ony Page,
formerly director of non-foods trading at ASDA, joined us as
Managing Director , Commercial & Marketing. 
Much has changed during my six years at the Woolworths 
Group. I am obviously pleased with the business we have built 
on the Wholesaling and Publishing side. Woolworths retail is a
challenging business, but although its recent performance has
been disappointing I believe the building blocks are in place 
for a better result.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their support 
and all our colleagues throughout the Group for their hard 
work and efforts during a difficult year and indeed during 
my whole period as Chairman.
Gerald Corbett
Chairman
27 March 2007
Chairman’ s Statement
Gerald Corbett
