 06
Review of the year
WorkPlace Systems International plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Financial Year under review continued our 
development and transformation to a SaaS 
provider of Workforce Management Solutions 
with WorkPlace OnLine. Commercial gains 
were made with WorkPlace OnLine in all three 
regions in which the Group operates – Europe, 
North America and Australia.
In these difficult times, the SaaS speed 
of deployment methodology with its operational 
payment plan results in an early return of 
investment for WorkPlace’s clients. The model 
is now becoming widely understood and 
accepted, and this augurs well for your 
Company as we go forward. 
The SaaS business has grown from 17% 
to 27% as a percentage of revenue during 
the year.
The Company continued to roll-out solutions 
with its existing On Premise, StaffPlanner and 
StaffTracker, clients and new customers were 
also added for this range of products in the UK.
Whilst the economic climate during the last 
two years has been challenging, the Company 
has continued to invest in its products. 
During the year under review we invested 
£2.2m into Research and Development, a 
similar level to the previous financial year. 
Investment was undertaken to add new 
modules to WorkPlace OnLine which provided 
our customers with greater integration with 
their existing systems, introduced new features 
and resulted in our clients being provided 
with increased value from the service. 
The Company also continued to invest 
in its large On Premise solutions.
It is important to note that computing power 
and high availability are very important in the 
SaaS world. The year saw the opening of a UK 
data centre, operated by the Company’s US 
Partner Navisite to run WorkPlace OnLine, 
which replicates the SAS70 environment that 
is offered to customers in North America. 
This allows UK clients to enjoy the high level 
of service provided in North America.
Chief Executive’s statement
Summary
A The WorkPlace OnLine SaaS business has 
grown from 17% to 27% as a percentage 
of revenue during the year.
A A number of large organisations in the 
UK have chosen to pilot our WorkPlace 
OnLine solution as a means to introduce 
this new service to their organisations. 
A The infrastructure for our SaaS solution 
has been put in place and I believe that 
this will enable the Company to benefit in 
the future from the decisions and transition 
made by the Board during the last two years.
WorkPlace OnLine
WorkPlace OnLine delivers a 
comprehensive suite of WFM solutions 
over the web; including Workload Demand 
Forecasting, AutoScheduling, Schedule 
Management, Attendance Management 
(T&A). Historically WFM vendors have 
assumed that in order to improve 
schedules, one first needed to create 
a highly detailed forecast. Their next step 
was to convert this forecast through an 
optimising engine into workforce shifts. 
Sounds logical but unfortunately this 
approach rarely works.
It can take months to model the business to 
create a suitable forecast, and then to build 
all the constraints and preferences into the 
schedule optimiser is fraught with difficulty, 
taking additional months, and rarely 
produces schedules acceptable to the 
existing staff.
In the meantime, schedulers are still managing 
schedules on paper or in spreadsheets and 
gain no benefit from the system. WorkPlace 
starts by giving schedulers what they need, 
simple template-driven scheduling tools. 
In the Financial Year under 
review commercial gains were 
made with WorkPlace OnLine 
in all three regions in which 
the Group operates, Europe, 
North America and Australia. Business overview Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
07
  Visit our website at www.workplacesystems.com
WorkPlace Systems International plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Review of the year
Employees work schedules to which they are 
accustomed; schedulers see costs, overtime, 
premiums, work-rule conflicts etc. Then, at 
the appropriate time, the labour forecast is 
used to analyse these schedules and 
propose improvements.
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   0
Forecasting
Business intelligence/dashboards
Autoscheduling
Schedule 
management
legend a
legend b
legend c
legend c
legend d
Attendance 
management
Region/area End user
UK and Europe
A number of large organisations in the UK 
have chosen to pilot the WorkPlace OnLine 
solution as a means to introduce this new 
service to their organisations. The number 
of clients who are running pilots of the SaaS 
solution in the UK has grown to eight, with 
several of these pilots commencing after 
the year end. Initial feedback from these 
customers is that the pilots are achieving 
their business case requirements and the 
Company is confident that a number will 
convert to roll-out in the current financial year.
During the year the focus continued on the 
Retail Sector with success in the international 
expansion of major customers including 
Metro and H&M. In addition, new customers 
were signed including Fiskars, the international 
consumer products group, who have chosen 
to roll-out the WorkPlace OnLine solution 
across Europe. 
In other sectors the breadth of functionality 
within the Company’s products allowed 
WorkPlace to win further business in 
transportation and other sectors, including 
the expansion of the Menzies Aviation 
contract and the previously announced 
win at Mersey Rail.
North America
Progress in North America has continued 
on the back of the Company’s major US 
customer who ordered additional services 
during the year. Following WorkPlace’s well 
publicised success at this major pharmacist, 
the Company has entered into talks with 
a number of other large US groups and 
believes that it is creating a reputation as 
a specialist in this area. WorkPlace OnLine 
in the US has proved extremely reliable with 
uptime in excess of 99.98% throughout the 
twelve month period on a 24/7 basis, the 
downtime of 0.02% including scheduled 
maintenance time.
Australia
The potential of the Australian operation 
continues to grow as WorkBuddy, the 
Company’s Australian subsidiary, has benefited 
from the size and experience of the Group to 
sell to larger customers in its local market. 
During the financial year WorkBuddy moved 
into profitability for the first time and the SaaS 
revenue model in Australia enables the 
Company to view the future success of this 
operation with confidence.
Product Development 
In our SaaS suite, WorkPlace OnLine, the 
Company further developed the integration 
between modules to facilitate the more 
seamless transfer of data. The look and feel 
of our User Interface was upgraded and 
standardised across modules to give a very 
easy to use and efficient user experience. 
Working closely with its customers 
the Company enhanced a number of the 
core modules to support mobile devices.  08
Review of the year
WorkPlace Systems International plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Revenue from SaaS (£’000)
As at 31 March 2011
2010 2011
2,495
1,555
 Software licence and bespoke  
development charges 1,764
 Recurring revenue from  
maintenance and hosted services 4,594
 Consultancy and  
implementation services 2,085
 Other 654
Revenue of sales by type (£’000)
As at 31 March 2011
 Software licence and bespoke  
development charges 1,764
 Recurring revenue from  
maintenance and hosted services 4,594
 Consultancy and  
implementation services 2,085
 Other 654
 UK and Europe 7,002
 North America 1,462
 Australia 633
 UK and Europe 7,002
 North America 1,462
 Australia 633
Revenue invoiced to third parties (£’000)
As at 31 March 2011
 Software licence and bespoke  
development charges 1,764
 Recurring revenue from  
maintenance and hosted services 4,594
 Consultancy and  
implementation services 2,085
 Other 654
 UK and Europe 7,002
 North America 1,462
 Australia 633
Chief Executive’s statement
 continued
Summary
A Our WorkPlace OnLine SaaS solution in 
the United States has proved extremely 
reliable with uptime in excess of 99.98% 
throughout the twelve month period on 
a 24 by 7 basis. The downtime of 0.02% 
includes scheduled maintenance time.
A During the financial year WorkBuddy 
moved into profitability for the first time.
A The Company invested £2.2m in design 
and development of our product set 
during the financial year.
Product Development continued
This enhancement allows fast accurate 
dissemination of schedule, assignment 
and other information to handheld devices 
irrespective of location of the users. 
These new features have been made 
available across the product range.
Customers of the On Premise solutions 
continue to rely on WorkPlace expertise to 
extend and enhance the software with new 
features. These enhancements have helped 
customers to extend the use of WorkPlace 
solutions and further empower their 
employees to improve productivity.
Direction
The pipeline has grown throughout the financial 
year and I believe that our continued investment 
in the SaaS solution will generate solid returns 
in the coming years as it addresses many 
issues facing our customers in the current 
business environment.
The infrastructure for our SaaS solution has 
been put in place and I believe that this will 
enable the Company to benefit in the future 
from the decisions and transition made by 
the Board during the last two years. 
Barney Quinn 
Chief Executive
1 July 2011
