 WorkPlace Systems International plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
04
Business overview
Chairman’s statement
The Financial Year ended 
31 March 2011 saw increased 
interest in the WorkPlace 
Software-as-a-Service 
(“SaaS”) business model, 
particularly from the Retail 
and Hospitality markets.
The Financial Year ended 31 March 2011 
saw increased interest in the WorkPlace 
Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) business 
model, particularly from the Retail and 
Hospitality markets, which addressed the 
challenges of this sector to increase revenues 
whilst tightly controlling on-going expenditure.
During the first half, business confidence 
remained weak and this was reflected in the 
first half results reported in October 2010. 
During the second half, activity levels increased 
significantly in the UK market enabling the 
Company to trade profitably once again on 
the back of a number of pilots for UK Retail 
and Hospitality groups. The pilot or phased 
project approach by customers to this new 
business model had been anticipated by the 
Board. However, the economic conditions 
caused a greater level of business uncertainty 
within the targeted sectors and, as a result, 
a number of these pilots were extended and 
are now likely to be rolled out during 2011/12.
In the Financial Year, the Company 
maintained its total revenue at prior year 
levels whilst continuing the transition to 
a SaaS model which grew to 27% of total 
revenue compared to 17% in the year 
ended 31 March 2010.
The difficult trading conditions of 2009 and 
early 2010 meant that the Board prioritised 
the conservation of cash and tight control 
over the Company’s cost base for the 
2010-2011 Financial Year, whilst continuing 
to develop the Company’s products and 
respond to opportunities. During the 
year, the Group spent 25% of turnover on 
Research and Development, focusing on 
the internationalisation of the SaaS service 
for Europe and North America whilst continuing 
to develop the traditional WorkPlace products 
and to integrate the two business technologies. 
This level of expenditure is similar to previous 
years and is expected to be continued in 
the future to enable the Company to extend 
its SaaS offering into Europe and other 
geographic areas.
The Company continues to maintain a 
strong customer base in the UK and Europe 
and during the year supported a number of 
clients in their international expansion within 
Europe. The business continues to provide a 
strong level of Annual Use and Maintenance 
revenue on conventional products which, 
together with our growing SaaS business, 
increased Recurring Revenues to over 51% 
of total revenues, compared with 44% in 
the prior year.
Summary
A The Company maintained its total revenue 
at prior year levels whilst continuing 
the transition to a SaaS model. 
A During the second half, activity levels 
increased significantly in the UK market 
enabling the Company to trade profitably.
A WorkPlace remains debt free and 
maintains cash balances of £2.3m. Business overview Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
05
  Visit our website at www.workplacesystems.com
WorkPlace Systems International plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
WorkPlace’s US operation continued to 
be profitable during the year and additional 
staff were employed in Chicago to support 
existing customers and to develop the SaaS 
business in this market. The Company is 
developing a strong reputation within the 
US and in the International Pharmacy Retail 
sector. We expect to see further benefits in 
the coming year.
Whilst the rate of progress was slower than 
originally anticipated, particularly during the 
first half of the year, the Board believes that 
the underlying strength of the WorkPlace 
customer base together with the growth in 
the WorkPlace OnLine SaaS business sets the 
foundations for significant growth in the future.
During the Financial Year, the Company 
contracted with Navisite to establish a UK 
Hosting Centre on a similar configuration 
to that of the US Centre set up during 2010. 
The establishment of this data centre provides 
the Group with global hosting coverage and the 
ability to provide fully-mirrored environments 
to ensure the SaaS service meets both internal 
targets and contracted service levels.
Financial Results
Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011 
was £9.1m (2010: £9.1m). Gross margins 
reduced to 89% (2010: 91%) reflecting the 
move to the SaaS model and the recognition 
of hosting costs as a cost of sale. Recurring 
revenue received from Annual Use Licences, 
Managed Services and SaaS revenues rose 
to £4.6m (2010 £4.0m) and accounts for 51% 
of total revenue (2010: 44%).
Following the First-Half loss, a Second-Half 
profit of £130k (2010: £17k) resulted in a loss 
for the year of £355k (2010: profit of £46k). 
Finance income on deposits generated £6k 
(2010: £4k) and the Loss before Tax was £349k 
(2010: profit £50k).
EPS was a loss of 0.24p per share 
(2010: profit 0.03p).
Cash Position
WorkPlace remains debt free and, in spite 
of the loss incurred during the financial 
year, maintains cash balances of £2.3m, 
a small increase compared with the prior year 
(31 March 2010: £2.1m). These balances are 
held predominately in short term deposits 
denominated in sterling with operating levels 
of currency held in US Dollars, Euro and 
Australian Dollars. At a time of continued 
pressure on credit and increasing cost 
of borrowing, the Board believes that this 
positions WorkPlace strongly when compared 
to a number of our highly geared competitors. 
Cash balances at 31 March 2011 were £2.3m 
(2010: £2.1m). 
Dividend
The Board does not propose a dividend to 
be paid based on the results for the Financial 
Year ended 31 March 2011. In the current 
climate the Board considers it prudent to 
conserve cash within the Company with the 
expectation of a resumption of dividend 
payments in future periods when trading 
conditions improve.
Outlook
The Company has started the new 
Financial Year with a number of pilots 
being undertaken by customers in the UK 
and the expectation that a number of these 
will develop into full roll-out within the 
current Financial Year. Whilst the decision 
making within a number of customers 
remains cautious, business levels for 
both the Company’s SaaS and On Premise 
customer base have continued to grow 
and provide the basis for strong confidence 
in the future.
Ian Lenagan
Chairman
1 July 2011
