 06 Introduction
Chairman’s Statement
The Group had another  
successful year. We have  
a strong balance sheet and  
will continue to invest in  
developing the business.
>
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 07
Results
I am pleased to report that the Group  
had another successful year, with revenue 
up 13% and normalised diluted earnings 
per share up by 23%. We have, as 
planned, continued to make further 
progress in increasing operating margin 
from 6.6% to 6.9%. This continued 
development of the Group, including the 
improvement in operating margins, was 
achieved against a challenging economic 
backdrop in the second half of the year.
In the UK, our Rail, Highways and 
Transportation and Management and 
Project Services segments all performed 
well. There were good performances  
from the majority of our businesses within 
the Design and Engineering Solutions 
segment other than in our building design 
business which was adversely impacted  
by the slowdown of its market. The results 
of our small Asset Management segment 
were very disappointing, reflecting 
problems with one legacy long-term PFI 
facilities management contract.
The result for our business in the Middle 
East was significantly ahead of last year, 
with operating profit of £17.3m, up 82%. 
In the first half of the year the business 
grew strongly but confidence in the 
region was significantly impacted by the 
global economic slowdown and a liquidity 
crisis in the region in autumn 2008.  
A number of projects were cancelled 
during the third quarter, necessitating  
a re-sizing of the business in the fourth 
quarter of the year. Our businesses in 
China and Europe have both delivered 
increased profits.
The Group’s liquidity remains strong 
helped by a very good cash performance 
and we ended the year with net funds  
of £234.2m.
People
After a number of years of sustained 
growth, the Group’s staff numbers 
reached a peak of approximately 18,600 
in November 2008. In response to the 
worsening market conditions in the latter 
part of the year, principally in our UK and 
Middle East commercial and residential 
property-facing businesses, we 
announced the redundancy of some 
1,200 staff. Approximately 600 staff  
had left the business by the year-end, 
taking our year-end staff numbers to 
approximately 18,000, with the remainder 
leaving in the subsequent few months  
as their notice periods come to an end. 
We do not make such decisions lightly,  
as we take our responsibilities to our 
people very seriously, but they were 
necessary in order to reduce our costs  
in response to the changed economic 
environment. At the same time, however, 
we are continuing to recruit to fill 
specialist vacancies in other areas of our 
business, such as nuclear, which continue 
to experience growth in demand and  
to take in graduate trainees.
I would like to thank all our employees 
throughout the Group for their 
commitment and efforts during these 
turbulent economic times.
Board of directors
Robert MacLeod, who has served as 
Group finance director since June 2004, 
and James Morley, who has served as a 
non-executive director since January 2001, 
have both announced their intention to 
leave the Board in June 2009. Robert will 
step down as Group finance director and 
leave the Board on 19 June and James  
will retire from the Board on 30 June. 
They have each made an invaluable 
contribution to the Group and I wish them 
every success in their future endeavours.
I am delighted to welcome Heath Drewett 
and Joanne Curin to the Board. Heath 
joined the Board on 15 June 2009 and  
will assume the role of Group finance 
director on 19 June 2009. Joanne joined 
the Board as a non-executive director  
on 10 February 2009 and will take the 
chair of the Audit Committee on  
30 June 2009. Lord Boyce will assume  
the role of senior independent director, 
also on 30 June.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 17.25p, making the total 
dividend for the year 26.0p (2008: 24.0p), 
an increase of 8%. If approved, the 
dividend will be paid on 25 September 
2009 to ordinary shareholders on the 
register on 14 August 2009.
Outlook
We start the new financial year in a good 
position with work in hand representing 
54% of our budgeted revenue (2008: 
55%). The macro-economic climate varies 
significantly across our diverse range of 
markets. The majority are relatively stable 
but some uncertainties remain in our UK 
building design business and confidence 
has yet to fully return in the Middle East. 
We are, however, well prepared to 
respond to fluctuations, both positive  
and negative, in all our markets.
The Group is well placed to navigate 
through the challenging overall 
environment. We have a strong balance 
sheet and will continue to invest in 
developing the business.
Ed Wallis
Chairman
16 June 2009
