 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
08 Introduction
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Our strategy 
Plan, design, enable is what we do.
Our vision is to be the world’s best
infrastructure consultancy . 
To be the world’s best infrastructure consultancy.
World’s
We will target 
chosen geographies,
and develop deep
local expertise.
Best
We will seek to
consistently anticipate
and address our
clients’ needs.
Infrastructure
Buildings, transport,
utilities, Government
and industry and 
their social and
environmental context.
Consultancy
Our primary business
model will be 
selling expertise. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 09
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Atkins is a consultancy which exists to plan,
design and enable our clients’ capital
programmes. We aim to improve all aspects
of our activities within well understood
business models. The strong performance
of the Group has demonstrated over the
last few years that this focus has been
appropriate and the forecast of continued
high demand for capital programmes of
increasing complexity dictates that it
remains so.
The key to much of the activity that the
Group undertakes is the national and local
nature of the relationships we build with
our clients. The vast majority of our clients
continue to come to Atkins at a local level
because we have key local relationships. 
As a result we have de-centralised our
organisation, empowering local management
as far as reasonably possible. Many of our
core skills and the values of our excellent
service culture have currency across the
world, but we do not have a strategy of
becoming a global company; instead our
strategy involves focusing our efforts
where we are able to develop these deep
local relationships with our clients. We call
this part of our strategy multi-local.
In addition to developing local skills, our
local management teams are able to draw
upon the Group’s wide range of skills and
resources. One of Atkins’ key differentiators
is the extensive range of skills that we have
in the organisation. There is rarely a technical
question that cannot be answered by
someone within the Group, allowing us 
to be flexible and to consider all options.
Our clients recognise that, by harnessing
this breadth of skills, we can answer their
questions better. This part of our strategy
we call multi-skill.
We believe that our focus upon being 
a multi-skill, multi-local consultancy, 
with the best combination of quality, 
local understanding and breadth of skills, 
will allow us to be trusted to deliver
infrastructure projects more often than 
our competitors. Bringing the extensive
capabilities of the Group to bear at a local
level is therefore fundamental and will
deliver superior performance. 
Climate change is a significant issue for the
world in which we live and it is becoming 
a significant issue for many of our clients.
Apart from the normal social responsibility
issues, we are focusing on the area of carbon
calculation and the carbon mitigation of
both the embedded elements and the
whole-life effects of our designs. We have
termed this Carbon Critical Design. We are
doing world-class work in a number of areas
but the practice of embedding carbon
reduction into the design process is still in
its infancy. We need to act now to develop
this capability so as to be able to respond
to the emerging demand and ensure that
clients can meet their carbon agendas over
the next five to ten years. We have therefore
set ourselves the challenge to resolve how
we deliver Carbon Critical Design within
100 weeks. We are investing heavily this
year and next to raise awareness, develop
tools and actively engage with clients on
this important issue.
Carbon Critical Design will affect everything
we do in the long term. It demands an
expansive multi-skilled outlook. It is no
longer appropriate, for example, to segregate
building design from structures, as the whole
system must be optimised to reduce carbon.
This makes Atkins supremely well placed to
lead. We design a very large part of the built
environment and we can engage clients
and change the question. We are not
aspiring to everything being carbon neutral
but we are looking at an iterative journey
to reduce carbon in everything we do. 
If we are successful in addressing all 
of these areas, we will be well along 
the path to being the world’s best
infrastructure consultancy.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
10 Introduction
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Our strategy 
Continued
Strategy process
The Atkins strategy is developed by an
integrated process of establishing the Group
priorities and evaluating the strengths of
the businesses within the Group. Business
unit bottom-up five-year plans are therefore
set in the context of the top-down Group
strategic aims.
We evaluate the market areas in which we
may best use our skills, identifying any skill
or market gaps, and formulate options for
approval at Board level. 
We review our strategy on an annual basis
focusing on different aspects each year. In
2006 we established a new five-year plan
for the Group providing medium-term
targets that ensured we would deliver
shareholder value. In 2007 we revalidated
the fundamental aspects of the Group
strategy and carried out a thorough market
segmentation exercise to analyse options
for the Group going forward. The 2008
process will review five-year targets in light
of the strategic direction set in 2007 and
Company and market developments since. 
Strategy review
The 2007 review confirmed:
•The primary objective of creating long-
term shareholder value as measured by
growth in normalised diluted earnings
per share can be achieved by both our
business activity and our business model
•Atkins will remain a consultancy –
diversification by becoming a pure
contractor, technology company or
developer is not an attractive option 
for the Group
•Working across multiple markets gives us
robust underlying performance – we will
focus on those markets that are attractive
and are aligned with the Group’s strategy
•Demand for our services is present in
many countries across the world –
however we focus on those services and
countries that will provide the best 
long-term returns for the Group
•The financial stewardship of the Group
allows a return of capital to shareholders
whilst retaining considerable financial
capacity to pursue organic growth and 
to exploit suitable strategic opportunities
that might arise
•The recruitment, retention and
development of our staff remain 
key to growth.  
Following the review we confirmed that
we need to continue to:
•Reinforce our focus upon Identity 
and Excellence 
•Deepen and improve the quality of 
our service offering through recruiting,
retaining and developing our staff 
and management
•Follow appropriate sector opportunities
into new and related markets.
We have made good progress by increasing
headcount by 24% in the past three years
and a key element of this has been to apply
considerable effort in recruiting appropriately
qualified staff in Sharjah, Bangalore and
Manila to work for our key home markets
– the UK and Middle East. We need to
continue to focus on maximising the
effectiveness of such intra-group working
and continue to enhance the mobility and
flexibility of our staff. This has improved
materially in the past two years.
With confidence in our markets over the
medium term, the Group has robust
foundations from which to build.
Business Unit strategy
The Group’s decentralised structure and
empowered management allow business-
level strategy to be established very close
to the customer, leveraging the competitive
advantage that being part of a larger
group brings.
Decisions about product and market diversity
form part of the Group-level strategy.
Consequently, the business units can focus
on the excellence of their offering in specific
areas where the Group’s capability is best
used to advantage. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 11
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Each business considers its strategy 
for addressing its market taking into
consideration various factors: 
• Competitive advantage – the ability of
the business to differentiate itself from
the local competition
• Resource-based advantage – the skills
and capabilities that the Group has that
may confer a unique advantage
• Operational advantage – ways in which
we may understand our business models
better and improve our products.
Atkins’ position in each of its home markets
is strong and, increasingly, multiple business
units are being brought together to deliver
complex projects in various parts of the world.
Strategic position 
The environment
In the medium term, global drivers will
bring unprecedented change to the world’s
infrastructure, not least growing urban
populations and all the issues connected
with sustainability and climate change.
Quality, local understanding and breadth 
of skills will therefore continue to be 
in demand. 
In the UK alone the market size for
engineering and design has been estimated
at nearly £14 billion
1
. The top 150 design
firms in the world generate revenue of
more than £40 billion
2
. While growth and
consolidation continues at the top end,
there remains an endless tail of small
consultancies capable of competing 
for significant percentages of most 
market sectors.
In the UK, the New Civil Engineer (NCE)
survey regularly puts Atkins in the top four
across a wide range of sectors. The UK
market continues to grow and Atkins is
increasing its market share. The Group has
also been successful in building meaningful
domestic businesses in the Middle East,
the US and some European markets.
Acquisitions and organic investment will
continue to be considered which deepen
the Group’s skill base and strengthen our
market position, usefully accelerating our 
multi-local, multi-skill business model.
Conditions in 2008
The requirement for new and upgraded
infrastructure remains and many of our
important markets are buoyant. Competition
for resources to deliver projects is strong,
which also provides a healthy indicator of
the markets in which we work. However,
whilst we have been successful in improving
the attractiveness of Atkins as an employer
in recent years, we are also experiencing
increased upward pressure on remuneration.
Our direct exposure to the commercial
property market in the UK is limited, but
we are mindful of indirect consequences 
of a prolonged downturn and the timing
of projects may be subject to some
variability in the short term.
Keith Clarke
Chief Executive
25 June 2008
1 Survey of UK Construction Professionals 2005/06 –
Davis Langdon Management Consulting, July 2007.
2 Engineering News Record, 23 July 2007.
UK Rank Company
1(1) Atkins 3 3 1 4 2 2 1 1 2 7 3 1 1 1 1 2 3 1 5
2(2) Mott MacDonald 7 2 3 9 7 4 16 5 1 1 3 2 4 3 8 2 5 2
3(3) Arup 1 10 9 13 9 10 2 3 3 3 5 13 3 10 4 5 1 12 10
4(4) WSP 2 13 2 6 5 4 4 4 9 9 6 7 2 1 7 4 19
5(5) Mouchel 6 20 1 2 5 2 18 11 3
6(6) Jacobs 14 8 2 6 3 3 7 9 1 10 4 4 9 3 9 4 2 9
7(7) RPS 1 14
8(9) Halcrow 16 15 10 16 14 1 6 2 8 8 8 5 10 5 8 6
9(8) Scott Wilson 13 12 11 10 13 3 15 7 5 6 6 4 6 17 3 14
10(10) Capita Symonds 9 7 7 14 4 9 10 2 13 14 17 7 13 9 6 13 6 12 25
Note
NCE Consultants File 2008 market rankings.
Building
Construction and
Project Management
Defence
Environment
Facilities
Management
Flooding 
and Coastal
Geotechnics
Health and Safety
Manufacturing
Ports, Harbours,
Airports and Canals
Power
Public Sector
Rail/Rail Bridges
Roads/Road Bridges
Telecommunications
Transport Planning
Tunnelling
Waste
Water WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
12 Introduction
Chief Executive’ s Statement
Our strategy 
Continued
Summary
Mission
We exist to plan, design and enable 
capital programmes.
Vision
The Group intends to be the world’s best
infrastructure consultancy.
Strategy
Objective
The aim of the Group is to maximise shareholder
return over the long term.
Scope
The Group will operate as a multi-local, 
multi-skill consultancy. We will continue to 
evolve world-class skills in infrastructure-related
disciplines. We will focus these skills in selected
home geographies where our full capability can
be brought to bear. 
Advantage
Our breadth and depth of skills give us the ability
to deliver simple solutions to complex questions.
The reputation we build will attract employees
and customers worldwide. We will help to deliver
the changes demanded of infrastructure in 
a carbon critical world.  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Operating and Financial Review
18 Overview of the business 
and performance in the year
20 Segmental performance
20 Design and Engineering 
Solutions
22 Highways and Transportation
24 Rail
26 Middle East, China and Europe
30 Management and Project 
Services
32 Asset Management
33 Discontinued operations
34 Financial performance
37 Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review
Reviews
