 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012
08 Introduction  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Statement
Our strategy is clear and the Group  
is well positioned to deliver further  
growth in the year ahead.
>  Introduction 09
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012
Introduction
Business position
I am pleased to report that the year to  
31 March 2012 was another good year  
in terms of our ﬁnancial performance. 
Turnover grew by 9% to £1,711.1m. 
Reported proﬁt before tax was £135.5m, 
with the beneﬁt of £30.9m from pension 
gains, as we continue to actively manage 
our pension liabilities and £7.2m 
generated from the sale of our UK asset 
management business in November 2011. 
Excluding these beneﬁts, together with 
amortisation of intangible assets on 
acquisition of £4.2m, gives a more 
representative underlying proﬁt of 
£101.6m, which is comparable with last 
year. Taking into account the departure  
of around 550 staff following the sale  
of our UK asset management business  
in November 2011, underlying headcount 
increased through the year, with a closing 
headcount of 17,420 at the end of  
March 2012.
The Group proﬁt after tax for the year  
of £106.8m (2011: £72.6m) is shown  
in the Consolidated Income Statement 
(page 96).
The Group’s liquidity remains strong, 
driven by a good cash performance in the 
second half of the year as a result of our 
strategic focus on operational excellence 
and cash ﬂow. Net funds at the end  
of the year were £122.6m.
These results include the ﬁrst full year  
of our acquired North America business. 
Integration has gone well and we have 
started to share resources and knowledge 
across the Group which is improving our 
competitive and market share position  
in North America. 
The UK region ended the year well and,  
as anticipated, saw modest growth in 
underlying headcount in the second half 
of the year. The North American region 
reported a slight margin improvement 
despite challenging market conditions  
and a small loss in our Peter Brown 
construction management at risk  
business in relation to some legacy issues. 
The Middle East region continued to enjoy 
strong market conditions while client 
relations remain challenging and the scale 
and complexity of the major projects 
require heightened attention with regard 
to change management and payment 
terms. With projects like the Central 
Planning Ofﬁce in Doha we are 
positioning ourselves strategically as the 
key expert for integrated infrastructure 
consulting in the region. The Asia Paciﬁc 
and Europe business continued to deliver 
a steady performance and Faithful+Gould 
traded well with tailored service solutions 
for major international corporations in 
Asia, Europe and North America. Our 
Energy business achieved strong organic 
growth, which was augmented by the 
strategically important acquisition of 
Pöyry’s oil and gas business during  
the year.
Atkins continues to demonstrate the 
highest levels of technical excellence and 
expertise as it delivers the world’s most 
challenging and time critical infrastructure 
projects. The London 2012 Olympic and 
Paralympic Games is a perfect example  
of Atkins at its best as we are the ofﬁcial 
engineering design services provider to 
the Games. This project showcases British 
engineering expertise on a world stage 
and demonstrates the breadth and depth 
of Atkins’ capabilities. Atkins’ engineering 
is considered to be some of the best in  
the world, and it is from this heritage, 
with engineering design excellence and 
our employees’ passion to perform  
and exceed clients’ expectations, that  
we will continue to grow internationally  
in the future. 
We remain committed to safety in the 
workplace and on all of our project sites. 
Safety forms part of our commitment to 
quality and reliability. It is derived directly 
from the values of our Company and,  
as we push to improve productivity and 
proﬁtability, we should never forget that 
safety must come ﬁrst. The implementation 
of our safety standards worldwide is  
a leadership responsibility at all levels  
in the organisation.
We have formed a strong senior 
leadership team and with a highly skilled 
and motivated employee base we will 
continue to do what Atkins does best: 
listening carefully to the project needs  
of our clients and designing and 
engineering the best possible  
solutions for their requirements. 
Priorities
Our objective is simple: to drive 
shareholder value with unrelenting  
focus on operational excellence and  
to implement our growth strategy with 
the priority on portfolio optimisation  
and focused sector, as well as  
regional, expansion. 
Our medium term goal is to generate 
more than 75% of revenue from our non 
UK and Energy businesses and to generate 
a margin above 8%. We will grow 
organically and through acquisitions that 
add new skills or a regional presence.
Conclusion
We have made good progress in the last 
twelve months despite the challenging 
economic environment. During the  
second half we continued to diversify the 
business, improved cash ﬂow, reduced  
our pension liabilities and are returning  
to growth. We remain focused on driving 
operational excellence throughout the 
business to improve margins, optimise our 
portfolio and meet the evolving needs of 
our clients. Our strategy is clear and the 
Group is well positioned to deliver further 
growth in the year ahead.
Dr Uwe Krueger
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
13 June 2012
We are proud to be 
engineering London for 2012
 
www.atkinsglobal.com/twenty-twelve
