 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
PAGE SEVEN
RESULTS
I am pleased to report that the Group performed well last 
year, with revenue up 20% and normalised profit before 
taxation up by 19%. This result was driven by substantial 
growth in the Middle East; good performance from our Design 
and Engineering Solutions, and Highways and Transportation 
segments; and the recovery in the workload of our Rail 
segment. The Group’s cash performance continues to be 
strong and we ended the year with net funds of £199.1m.
The Group’s results, however, were adversely impacted by 
an exceptional loss of £121.3m (£120.1m after tax) in relation 
to the Metronet Enterprise. This loss includes an impairment 
write-down which reduces the carrying value of the Group’s 
investment in Metronet to £nil.
On 21 June 2007, Metronet announced its intention to 
invite the Arbiter to conduct an Extraordinary Review on 
Metronet BCV in July and on Metronet SSL later in the year. 
Negotiations are ongoing with Metronet’s banks to ensure 
that it has adequate funding until the completion of the 
Extraordinary Review.
Atkins is committed to working with Metronet, its banks 
and other stakeholders to ensure that it can continue through 
to the outcome of the Extraordinary Review.
PEOPLE
Headcount rose by over 1,900 in the year to nearly 
17,000 and it is encouraging that our focus on people has 
reduced staff turnover from 14.1% to 13.8%. We have 
made significant investment in enhancing our training and 
development programmes to ensure that our employees can 
continue to develop their careers within the Group. Staff 
mobility remains a priority to allow the transfer of skills 
and sharing of resources on significant projects. To remain 
successful with an increasingly diverse workforce we must 
continue to encourage excellence and create an environment 
in which all our people can flourish.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our 
employees throughout the Group for their efforts in the year.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
On 31 December 2006 Christopher Kemball retired as a 
non-executive director. I would like to thank Christopher for 
his valued contribution to the Board over the last four years, 
during which time the Group has seen many challenges. On 
13 March 2007 we welcomed Fiona Clutterbuck to the Board 
as a non-executive director and on 1 April 2007 she joined 
the Audit Committee. Fiona heads the financial institutions 
advisory practice of ABN AMRO. Our Group HR director  
Alun Griffiths also joined the Board on 13 March 2007  
as an executive director.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.0p,  
making the total dividend for the year 20.0p (2006: 16.0p), 
an increase of 25%.
OUTLOOK
We start the new year in a very good position with work  
in hand representing 58% of our budgeted revenue (2006: 
62%). The demand for our services in our key markets is 
strong and we are confident that the Group will continue  
to achieve further progress in the year ahead.
Ed Wallis, chairman 
26 June 2007
Chairman’s statement
Ed Wallis
I am pleased to report that the Group performed 
well last year, with revenue up 20%.
