 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
06 Introduction
Chairman’s Statement
We have made further good progress
this year. Our markets remain strong,
and, as we continue to improve our
services, we are confident that the
Group will achieve further good
progress in the year ahead. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
Introduction 07
Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Results
I am pleased to report another successful
year for the Group, with revenue up 11%
and normalised diluted earnings per share
up by 18%. We have made further good
progress demonstrated by the substantial
increase in operating margins before
exceptional costs from 5.7% to 6.6%. 
We believe that improvements in margin
will continue.
Once again there was substantial growth 
in the Middle East and there were good
performances from our Design and
Engineering Solutions and Highways and
Transportation segments in the UK.
Faithful+Gould also performed well and
margins improved substantially within our
Rail segment, as anticipated. The Group’s
cash generation remains very strong 
and we ended the year with net funds 
of £168.4m.
As previously reported, the Group’s results
also benefited from a £20m profit on the
sale of Lambert Smith Hampton and the
£17m accelerated release of Metronet
deferred income. These are included within
discontinued operations.
Share buyback
During the year the Board reviewed the
strength of the Group’s balance sheet and,
mindful of the benefit of maintaining an
efficient balance sheet, commenced a share
buyback programme in November 2007
with the intention of returning up to £100m
to shareholders. As at 31 March 2008
3.2m shares had been purchased at a total
cost of £34.9m. A further 0.7m shares
were purchased at a cost of £7.6m between
year-end and the commencement of the
Company’s close period on 25 April 2008. 
People
Our staff numbers in continuing operations
rose by over 1,400 in the year to nearly
17,300 but, given the strong markets 
in which we operate, our staff turnover
increased from 13.8% to 15.4%. This
increase was not unexpected but we
continue to make substantial investments
in enhancing our training and development
programmes and total reward to ensure
that our employees can continue to
develop their careers within the Group.
I would like to take this opportunity to
thank all of our employees throughout 
the Group for their efforts in the year.
Board of Directors
I am delighted to welcome Dr Krishnamurthy
“Raj” Rajagopal who joins the Board 
as a non-executive director. Raj brings
international experience to the Board
having previously been chief executive
of BOC Edwards until November 2006.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 16.5p, making the total dividend for 
the year 24.0p (2007: 20.0p), an increase
of 20%.
Outlook
We start the new year in a good position
with work in hand representing 55% of
our budgeted revenue (2007: 58%) and
are continuing to increase headcount.
While there is of course uncertainty about the
future direction of some of the economies
in which we operate, we have not seen
any sign of reduction in activity. Climate
change is becoming a significant issue for
many of our clients. We are working actively
to raise awareness, develop tools and
engage with clients to help them respond
to the complex requirements of a carbon
critical economy.
Our markets remain strong and as the
Group continues to improve its services we
are confident that the Group will achieve
further good progress in the year ahead.
Notwithstanding the share buyback
programme, we continue to review further
opportunities to add to the depth and
range of our technical skills and invest 
in the sustainable growth of the Group.
Ed Wallis
Chairman
25 June 2008
