 08 Introduction
Plan, design, enable is what we do.
Our vision is to be the world’s best 
infrastructure consultancy. 
>
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our strategy
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 09
Objective and business position
Our primary objective is to create 
long-term shareholder value measured  
by growth in normalised diluted earnings 
per share. We are confident that our  
core activity, that of professional design 
consultant serving the built environment, 
will enable us to continue to perform  
as a successful company in spite of 
unprecedented economic turmoil. 
We believe our objective can be best 
achieved by continuing to develop the 
current business model of predominantly 
professional consulting – Plan Design 
Enable – with the ‘enable’ part generally 
limited to activities such as management 
of road maintenance and signalling  
where our technical expertise gives us  
a competitive advantage. The majority of 
our business relates to our clients’ capital 
expenditure programmes as opposed to 
their day-to-day operating expenditure. 
As capital programmes become more 
complex and our clients, in both the  
public and private sector, face increasing 
pressure on expenditure, the Group’s 
capabilities will remain in demand. 
Effective use of current assets and 
efficient procurement with low-carbon 
drivers provide a platform that plays  
to the Group’s strengths. Where capital 
programmes are demanded we are in  
a position to plan and design cost and 
carbon savings. Where more effective use 
of current assets is needed we can design 
and enable efficient life extension and 
imaginative alternatives – for example in 
ramp metering and hard shoulder running 
on the road networks and extending the 
life of existing nuclear reactors. 
We remain optimistic regarding the 
medium-term demands for our services. 
Growing urban populations and all the 
issues connected with a low-carbon 
economy will require appropriate 
infrastructure. Quality, local understanding 
and breadth of skills will therefore 
continue to be needed. We do, however, 
view the near term cautiously. The global 
economic position has impacted demand 
levels in many markets. Nevertheless, 
governments are determined to push 
through stimulus packages and are 
aligning many of these with climate 
change minimisation goals. This plays well 
to the strengths of the Group provided 
the related projects can be brought to 
market in a timely manner. It is also 
possible that short-term demand for some 
of our services will rise as governments 
come to terms with the need for additional 
strategic planning of capital projects.
Our decentralised professional consulting 
organisation with its very wide range of 
deep technical skills provides an excellent 
base to respond across the Group to 
market fluctuations. Our ability to 
continue to grow, enhance and add to 
these skills gives us confidence of both 
successfully negotiating the global 
economic issues and continuing to meet 
the prime objective of EPS growth.
Vision
Our vision is to be the world’s best 
infrastructure consultancy. 
‘World’s’ means that we will develop  
deep local expertise in certain targeted 
geographies. We aim to be recognised  
as the best infrastructure consultancy in 
our chosen geographies because of the 
projects and service we deliver. We will 
not be global, with offices everywhere, 
although our multi-national reach will  
be extensive.
‘Best’ means that we will be close to  
our clients, anticipating their needs, 
developing long-term relationships and 
winning repeat business. We aim to help 
answer questions our clients don’t know 
they need to ask. We will help them to 
define their questions. Our values will 
espouse the way we carry out our work 
– with integrity and respect, always 
striving for excellence. We will not 
necessarily be the biggest or broadest  
– although this may be a consequence  
of our success.
Our skills lie in the expansive area of 
‘infrastructure’ – the wiring of society  
– covering buildings, transport and utilities 
(including power and water), as well as 
work for national and local governments 
and other industrial clients. The social  
and environmental framework, combined 
with our social policy planning skills,  
is also important – it is essential that we 
view all of our projects in the context  
of the communities in which they will  
be undertaken.
‘Consultancy’ means that we will  
operate a business based on selling advice 
and expertise. We are not a developer, 
construction company or generalist 
outsourcer. We do, however, have the 
financial status and commercial skills  
to successfully engage in a wide  
variety of contract forms as clients  
are increasingly demanding. 
Group strategy
We will achieve our vision through a 
strategy of multi-local, multi-skill excellence. 
The key to much of our activity is the 
national and local nature of the 
relationships we build with our clients.  
The vast majority of our clients continue 
to come to Atkins at a local level because 
we have demonstrated deep technical 
performance. Our decentralised 
organisation, empowering local 
management, also leverages resources 
from across the Group. Our strategy 
involves focusing our efforts where we  
are able to develop these deep local 
relationships with our clients. We call  
this part of our strategy multi-local. WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
10 Introduction
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our strategy
Continued
The implications of a multi-local  
strategy are:
•  we will have several home markets, 
where the business is a market leader 
and is material to us
•  we will only offer services where we 
have a high degree of technical 
competence in each of these markets
•  we will be seen as deeply local  
by customers
•  home businesses will be autonomous, 
but we will leverage capability from one 
region to another – collaborating and 
sharing knowledge across the Group
•  we will not be global, offering identical 
commoditised services.
In addition to developing local skills,  
our local management teams are able  
to draw upon the Group’s wide range  
of skills and resources. One of Atkins’ key 
differentiators is the extensive range of 
skills that we have in the organisation. Our 
ability to mobilise multidisciplinary teams 
and deep expertise from around the 
Group for local projects is a demonstrated 
capability that we have continued to 
successfully develop. Our clients recognise 
that, by harnessing this breadth of skills, 
we can answer their questions better.  
This part of our strategy we call multi-skill.
The implications of a multi-skill  
strategy are:
•  our competitive advantage will come 
from our breadth and depth of skills
•  our breadth will allow us to address the 
world’s most complex projects, small  
or large, and give us flexibility to react  
to new market opportunities
•  we will continue to invest in ensuring 
collaboration between skill groups and 
business units
•  we will not be satisfied with skills that 
are less than world-class just for the 
sake of breadth.
None of this strategy works unless we 
constantly strive for excellence. Economies 
rely upon the capital projects on which  
we work, and customer trust in our 
delivery is paramount. This trust depends 
on us maintaining world-class skills, and 
constantly pushing the boundaries of 
what is technically achievable.
Our scope is clear. We will continue  
to evolve world-class skills in 
infrastructure-related disciplines.  
We will focus these skills in selected  
home geographies where our full 
capability can be brought to bear. 
Our advantage is clear. Our breadth and 
depth of skills give us the ability to deliver 
simple solutions to complex questions. 
The reputation we build will attract 
employees and customers worldwide. 
Skills
Atkins has a huge range of technical skills 
evidenced by the vast array of services 
that the Group can offer. The devolved 
strategy is to have deep understanding of 
the skills demanded and offered (Identity) 
and to deliver these to a degree of  
quality to remain competitive (Excellence).  
At business unit level this strategy is 
articulated as Identity+Excellence.
Our drive for improvement and growth 
has been organic supplemented by 
targeted bolt-on acquisitions. Stringent 
acquisition criteria are applied to ascertain 
the appropriateness of the skill-set and 
cultural fit and to assess whether 
companies will usefully accelerate the 
multi-skill, multi-local strategy. Given the 
sound financial position of the Group, 
acquisitions can be readily financed and 
we can direct significant investment into 
areas in which we see value. We have 
continued to make good progress on 
acquiring new skills and extending  
our capabilities in recent years. The 
acquisitions of, for example, Nedtech  
and M.G. Bennett reflect our desire  
for skill acquisitions – enhancing our 
capability in specific areas and embedding 
new expertise alongside the existing 
Atkins offering.
Low-carbon economy
The transition to a low-carbon economy 
poses extraordinary challenges and 
opportunities. Our Carbon Critical Design 
programme is producing new ideas and 
ways of working. We are endeavouring  
to embed low-carbon design in all of our 
work in a marketplace that is still immature.
This encompasses all of our areas of 
operation as people around the world 
wrestle with how to approach the issue  
of climate change.
We are making good progress on our 
journey to have some 5,000 Atkins people 
engaging with clients on carbon issues 
within the next year. We are investing  
in carbon tools and running training 
courses to raise awareness of the issues 
among our staff. We regularly contribute 
to external conferences and debates on  
the subject. 
We continue to work with governments 
to offer advice about the delivery of  
a low-carbon economy. In this financial 
year we have also invested to build  
a range of carbon calculators across most 
areas of our business to support us in the 
delivery of low-carbon design and planning.
This remains an iterative journey but one 
that is of fundamental importance. We 
will not lose sight of this even in difficult 
market conditions. We will continue to 
invest in raising awareness, developing 
tools and actively engaging with our 
clients to help them meet their carbon 
agendas over the next decade.  Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction 11
Health and safety
It is with deepest regret that we report  
on a fatality that occurred on the Diego 
Garcia Joint Venture DG21 during a tree 
felling operation. Atkins has an equity 
stake of 24.5% in the Joint Venture and 
we have provided support, including 
advice on how to further improve the 
health and safety arrangements. 
We set our own challenging targets for 
health and safety and our performance 
remains better than the industry average 
performance as compiled by the HSE 
Labour Force Survey. We are keen to 
continue to improve, by expanding our 
safety leadership programme, and to 
reduce the number of manual handling 
accidents which account for 23%  
of serious accidents in construction.  
We also actively encourage the reporting 
of incidents and near-misses as a positive 
step towards accident prevention. 
All of our operations are now covered by 
OHSAS 18001 and three of our businesses 
have also received RoSPA awards: Gold  
for Highways and Transportation, and 
Design and Engineering Solutions; and 
Distinction for Asset Management (which 
was awarded for the 22nd year running).
Strategy process
Our strategy is developed by establishing 
the Group’s priorities and evaluating the 
strengths of the businesses within the 
Group. Business unit bottom-up five-year 
plans are set in the context of the  
top-down Group strategic aims.  
The Group top-down strategic aims 
encompass market sectors and 
geographies in which to operate and 
establish ways in which the business units 
may be assisted in delivering superior 
performance. Increasingly multiple 
business units can be brought together  
to deliver complex projects in various parts 
of the world. 
Last year we noted that we were mindful 
of the indirect consequences of a 
prolonged downturn in the commercial 
property market. Macro-economic 
conditions worsened during late 2008  
and started to affect our UK and Middle 
East building design businesses. We 
recognised the position and took swift 
action to reduce headcount and match 
costs to the available market. The Group 
will continue to monitor market 
developments and take appropriate 
action. We have a diverse skill base and 
geographic footprint which provides  
resilience in uncertain times. Many 
markets remain resource-constrained.  
The Group is agile and flexible enough  
to continue to hire as necessary and  
shrink where required to maintain levels  
of performance.
The 2008 strategy review focused on the 
evolution of the Group strategy, building 
on the work of previous years.
The review confirmed:
•  the consultancy business model  
is appropriate
•  the business units remain the core  
of the strategy 
•  economic uncertainty could lead  
to a wider range of credible scenarios 
– but the Group is well placed to deal 
with this
•  communication of the strategy  
is important
•  implementation of the strategy is now  
at the forefront of activity – determining 
how to optimise delivery, what services 
and skills to offer and in which 
geographical markets to operate.
The majority of our business is in the UK 
which remains the core market for our 
activities. Our existing businesses outside 
of the UK present attractive opportunities 
for further growth. The huge potential 
outside the UK includes areas where we 
are well established such as the Middle 
East, which despite recent liquidity issues, 
has significant medium-term promise. 
We have strong technical skills in  
a number of robust markets where quality 
is a significant determinant for selection.
•  In the UK we have niche positions in 
numerous markets. We propose to 
continue to invest in management, 
deepen the skill base and organise the 
business in a suitable way. We will, as 
demonstrated, undertake controlled 
reduction or exit of businesses and 
structure appropriately for downturns  
in activity.
•  In the Middle East we will continue  
to add niche skills and prepare for the 
economic upturn.
•  In Asia Pacific we will focus on and  
push hard in our available markets – 
principally the transit market in Hong 
Kong and building design and urban 
planning in China. We will continue  
to invest to take advantage of 
opportunities as the market opens up, 
recognising that it could be at least  
two years before significant growth  
is achieved.
•  In Europe we will continue to develop 
our local businesses.
•  In the USA, Faithful+Gould and our  
oil and gas businesses provide the 
organic growth focus. Skill additions 
remain possible.
•  Other geographic areas will continue  
to be reviewed.
The Board met in the final quarter of 
2008/09 to consider strategic themes  
in light of global market developments. 
The main tenets of the strategy were 
re-affirmed and the top-down multi-skill, 
multi-local strategy remains unchanged. 
The decentralised and empowered 
business model is fundamental to the 
success of the Group. In current conditions, 
tactical responses have priority in certain 
markets but the need to maintain  
a medium-term view in many of the 
businesses was also noted by the Board  
so that the Group may adequately position 
itself to take advantage of opportunities 
as they arise.  WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
12 Introduction
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our strategy
Continued
During 2009/10 the Group will continue 
to evaluate the services and countries that 
will provide the best long-term returns for 
the Group and, where appropriate, will 
follow specific sector opportunities into 
new and related markets. Acquisitions  
and organic investment will be considered 
which deepen the Group’s skill base and 
strengthen our market position in line with 
our strategy. Acquisitions can accelerate 
growth in our home geographies and 
elsewhere. Attractive geographies 
continue to be those with good cultural  
fit and market scope i.e. a material market 
with good growth prospects and potential 
for Atkins to grow market share.
The Board remains alive to the challenges 
and opportunities that arise from 
unprecedented world economic conditions. 
The Group is well placed to weather the 
downturn and take advantage of 
opportunities that may present themselves. 
It has the resources to emerge strongly  
as markets recover. 
Business unit strategy
The decentralised consultancy model 
demands that elements of the strategy  
be established at business unit level. Each 
business actively considers its competitive 
and resource-based advantage together 
with ways in which we may apply our 
business models better and improve  
our services. 
Each business determines a medium  
to long-term view of its prospects and 
positioning within its markets in the 
context of Group objectives. This year, 
while actions have been focused on the 
near term to ensure navigation through 
rapidly changing markets, strategic action 
plans have continued to be developed to 
ensure medium-term objectives remain in 
sight. Our management depth and ability 
are key to ensuring that we maintain a 
forward looking view within the business.
Looking forward
Our UK activity is underpinned by the 
provision of specialist, not commodity, 
services to several long-standing  
clients in the private and public sectors. 
With approximately 50% of our UK 
revenue coming directly from UK 
government (central or local), the Group  
is highly dependent on continued 
government expenditure.
The current economic turmoil and increased 
government debt will undoubtedly put 
pressure on the government’s finances, 
particularly from 2010/11 onwards.
The Group is, however, well positioned 
despite potential spending cuts because  
of a number of factors:
•  There will always be a demand for 
high-value technical skills – where 
quality is the major determinant – and 
these will be in greater demand as the 
complexity of the questions and 
challenges facing our clients increase. 
•  The drive to satisfy the UK’s Carbon 
Reduction Commitment will further 
increase the need for technical solutions 
to achieve the government’s targets. 
•  Decarbonising the economy, together 
with an increasing need for capacity, 
reliability and predictability should 
particularly enhance demand for  
skills in, for example, our nuclear, 
transmission and distribution,  
utilities and rail markets.
•  The government can increase efficiency 
by spending more time on the planning 
and designing of projects. Putting more 
thought into less construction is an area 
where the Group is particularly strong.
The Middle East comprises several  
markets and although the Dubai property 
market was effectively frozen from late 
calendar 2008, many other geographic 
markets and sectors continue to be active. 
The challenges arose from a liquidity  
issue in the region which led to a number 
of confidence issues. Confidence will 
return, and the region as a whole will 
continue to be an attractive area that  
can support a significant Atkins business, 
increasingly in essential infrastructure  
as well as buildings, built on experience 
and relationships established in the 
decades that we have been present in  
the Middle East. 
The US workload, driven by a variety of 
clients, is steady and we anticipate that 
fiscal stimulus will help to increase activity 
levels in infrastructure-related areas.
Europe and China are longer term 
prospects for the Group – but 
infrastructure needs will drive medium 
term demand.
Our deep local presence and drive for  
the type of value-for-money engineering 
that cannot be achieved at the commodity 
end of the spectrum place us well to 
deliver in all of these markets in the  
short term and beyond.
We are confident that with our culture, 
skills and business model we are, as 
evidenced by this year’s continued 
improvement in financial performance, 
well positioned to weather the  
turbulent global economic climate  
and emerge stronger.
Keith Clarke
Chief Executive
16 June 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
Reviews
Reviews
14 Human Resources Review
18 Business Review
 18  Overview of the business  
and performance in the year
 20  Segmental performance
 20  Design and Engineering Solutions
 22  Highways and Transportation
 24  Rail
 26  Middle East, China and Europe
 30  Management and Project Services
 32  Asset Management
 34  Financial performance
 37  Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Corporate Responsibility Review
