 06 Introduction
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013
Chairman’s Statement
In 2013, Atkins celebrates 75 years  
of design, engineering and project 
management consultancy. We have 
learned from the past to create the 
present and to inspire the future.
>  Introduction 07
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013
Introduction
Performance
I am pleased to report that the Group 
delivered another year of good results  
in worldwide markets which continue to 
be challenging. The increasing diversity, 
breadth and depth of our geographic  
and sector reach continue to provide  
the Group with resilience and we are 
beginning to see growth opportunities 
return in the UK and internationally. It is 
our combination of technical excellence 
and outstanding regional and segmental 
capabilities that enable us to continue  
to deliver these results. 
We have also made good progress 
towards achieving our strategic priorities. 
We have continued the work to optimise 
our portfolio and during the year we 
reached agreement to sell our UK 
highways services business which will 
enable us to focus on higher growth, 
higher margin activities. 
People
Over the past 75 years our success has 
been due to the expertise, quality, hard 
work and dedication of our people.  
We have a technical heritage dating  
back to 1938 with deep rooted values  
that drive every aspect of our business: 
outstanding people; placing our clients  
at the centre of everything we do; 
working together; being innovative  
and delivering winning performance.  
As we celebrate our anniversary year,  
I would like to thank our people, past  
and present, for making Atkins what it  
is today. In particular, I would like to look 
back at last summer’s hugely successful 
London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games. The Games were the culmination 
of seven years’ work from Atkins 
colleagues. I commend them for playing 
their part in delivering a Games to be 
proud of and for inspiring the next 
generation of engineers as the world 
looked on in appreciation of the design 
and engineering work that was necessary 
to stage this event. I look forward to the 
next chapter in our history as we continue 
to influence, design, engineer and manage 
projects that are creating the future. 
Board of directors
As chairman of the Board, I am responsible 
for ensuring its effective management  
and processes. I have set out my 
commitment to excellence in governance 
in the Corporate Governance Report 
(pages 64 to 75). An important aspect of 
this governance is an annual review of the 
effectiveness of the Board. During the year 
we carried out an external, independent 
review that, while recognising the progress 
we have made, also identified a number  
of opportunities for the Board to increase 
its effectiveness. We have created  
a detailed action plan which will be 
implemented throughout the coming year.
Last year, Dr Raj Rajagopal took over as 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
when Sir Peter Williams retired from the 
Board. I would like to thank him for his 
first full year in his new role.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 22.0p per ordinary share in 
respect of the year ended 31 March 2013, 
making the total dividend for the year 
32.0p (2012: 30.5p), an increase of  
4.9%. If approved at the Company’s 
annual general meeting, the dividend  
will be paid on 23 August 2013 to 
ordinary shareholders on the register  
on 19 July 2013. Further details regarding 
dividend payments can be found in 
Investor Information (page 164).
Outlook
The Group has maintained its resilience to 
challenging markets worldwide through 
the breadth and depth of its geographic 
and sector reach. This is reflected in the 
results we have reported for the year 
ended 31 March 2013. While we will 
continue to face challenges in some of  
our markets and sectors due to ongoing 
uncertain economic conditions and 
increased competition, we have made 
good progress towards our strategic 
priorities and expect this positive 
momentum to continue in the year ahead.
Allan Cook CBE
Chairman
12 June 2013
Full biographies of our Board 
of Directors can be found  
on pages 58-59
www.atkinsglobal.com/investor-relations
Corporate Governance Report. Pages 64-75
Board of Directors. Pages 58-59
