 08 Introduction
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Our strategy is clear and we are making 
good progress to deliver profitable 
growth and shareholder value.
>  Introduction 09
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013
Introduction
Business position
I am pleased to report that the year  
to 31 March 2013 was another good year. 
While future market conditions remain 
uncertain, we are building positive 
momentum and are starting to see  
growth opportunities return. 
Our underlying profit before tax was 
£104.5m, an increase of 2.9% over last 
year’s profit of £101.6m, on turnover  
that was broadly unchanged at £1.7bn. 
We believe underlying profit is a more 
representative measure of performance, 
removing the items that may give a 
distorted view of performance. In the 
current year we have removed profits  
on disposals and costs associated with 
disposals of £4.5m (2012: £7.2m), 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets 
of £10.0m (2012: £4.2m), including the 
write down of intangible assets in our 
Peter Brown business in North America, 
together with one-off pension gains of 
£4.3m (2012: £30.9m) arising as we 
continue to actively manage our pension 
liabilities. The unadjusted reported profit 
before tax was £103.3m (2012: £135.5m).
The Group’s profit after tax for the year of 
£88.4m (2012: £106.8m) is shown in the 
Consolidated Income Statement (page 100).
Headcount grew steadily over the year 
closing at 17,899, a 2.7% increase on last 
year’s closing position.
The UK region had a good year, achieving 
our strategy to sell the UK highways 
services business, the completion of which 
is expected in the summer, allowing us  
to focus on higher margin businesses.  
We have achieved positive momentum 
across all our UK businesses, resulting  
in headcount growth in continuing 
operations. Workload in the rail business 
has strengthened and utilisation is much 
improved and our water business is 
performing well through the Asset 
Management Plan (AMP) cycle.
L Joe Boyer became CEO, North America 
in April to lead this business to growth. 
While this region’s consultancy business 
continues to experience soft market 
conditions, the highways and 
transportation business is operating  
well. Our Peter Brown construction 
management at risk business, which 
reported a loss in the year of £6.5m,  
has been focusing on closing out legacy 
contracts and building a pipeline of  
new business.
In the Middle East, protracted negotiations 
on contract variations and delays in 
contract awards had an impact on our 
financial performance and have suppressed 
headcount growth. Notwithstanding this, 
we see significant project opportunities in 
Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in the year ahead.
Our Asia Pacific and Europe businesses 
have continued to trade well, increasing 
the diversity of their client and skills base. 
In particular, the industrial client base of 
Faithful+Gould is providing balance and 
good growth opportunities. Asia Pacific 
remains a key area for investment for us 
and we aim to deliver focused growth  
in this region. In Europe, our largest 
operations are in Scandinavia which is  
a stable, well funded market in which  
we have performed well.
We delivered good organic growth in  
our Energy business where we are well 
positioned in the growth markets of  
oil and gas and nuclear. We have 
strengthened our service offering by 
continuing to team up and partner with 
companies offering complementary skills. 
We will continue to invest in this business 
to grow organically and through targeted 
acquisitions.
Priorities
Our commitment to safety in our 
workplace and on all of our project sites 
remains a priority. Over the past year we 
have maintained a positive safety culture 
through our worldwide Safe by Choice 
programme and our senior leadership 
teams received behavioural safety 
coaching to help us maintain a ‘natural’ 
state of safety consciousness within the 
Group. We have achieved a 17% increase 
in near miss reporting which demonstrates 
a more proactive approach to safety 
management. We were recognised by  
the Royal Society for the Prevention of 
Accidents (RoSPA) with the achievement  
of a Gold Award for Occupational Safety 
and a Diamond Jubilee Award in 
conjunction with the Olympic Delivery 
Authority for outstanding health and 
safety on the London 2012 Games project.
As a consultancy, we rely on our team of 
dedicated people throughout the world, 
who carry out their work quietly and 
brilliantly, whether they are client facing  
or in a functional support team. We trust 
our people to go beyond what is required 
and our clients trust them to excel. We  
are committed to ensuring that we are 
developing our people so that they can 
deliver the best solutions for clients as  
well as achieving fulfilling careers.
Our strategy remains clear: to drive 
shareholder value by focusing on growth, 
selectively increasing our geographic 
footprint through targeted international 
expansion while continuing to deliver 
improved financial performance in all  
our markets and geographies.
In the medium term, our goal remains  
to generate a margin above 8% across  
all of our businesses and regions. 
We will grow organically and through 
bolt-on acquisitions that add new skills  
or a regional presence.
Conclusion
These results could not have been 
achieved without the dedication of our 
people and the continued support of our 
clients. We are proud of our teamwork 
among colleagues and with our clients  
and stakeholders. I would like to thank  
all our stakeholders for their continued 
commitment to Atkins.
We have delivered another year of good 
results and made notable progress 
towards the implementation of our 
strategy over the past 12 months. We have 
continued to optimise our portfolio with 
the agreed sale of our UK highways 
services business and sustained positive 
momentum in our UK, Asia Pacific and 
Europe and Energy businesses. We remain 
focused on driving operational excellence 
throughout the Group to improve margins, 
optimise our portfolio and meet the 
evolving needs of our clients. Our strategy 
is clear and unchanged. I am confident  
we will achieve further underlying growth 
in the year ahead.
Prof Dr Uwe Krueger
Chief Executive Officer
12 June 2013
We are confident we will 
achieve further underlying 
growth in the year ahead
www.atkinsglobal.com/investor-relations
