 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012
Chairman’s Statement
Atkins is an international engineering 
consultancy company with strong 
leadership and management, delivering 
both an excellent service to our clients  
and a strong ﬁnancial performance.
> 
06 Introduction    Introduction 07
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012
Introduction
Performance
I am pleased to report that the Group 
delivered good results for the year  
ended 31 March 2012 in an economic 
environment that continues to be 
challenging. This is testament to the 
breadth and depth of the services we  
offer across the world. It is our geographic 
presence and the broad mix of work that 
we do that have continued to give the 
Group resilience at a time when many  
of our markets still experience uncertainty.
We ended the year in line with 
expectations having improved turnover 
and maintained underlying proﬁt before 
tax as we continue to balance our 
geographic footprint. It is particularly 
pleasing to report that we have 
successfully integrated our PBSJ  
acquisition – which is the largest in the 
Group’s history. In the ﬁrst full year that 
we report results for this new business  
in North America, we have achieved good 
margin progression in our consultancy 
business which conﬁrms that our 
integration strategy and operational 
efﬁciency measures are working.
I remain conﬁdent that our multi local 
presence, together with the mix of skills 
and expertise that we provide to our 
clients’ increasingly complex engineering 
challenges, places us in a strong position 
to provide effective solutions, as clients 
put greater emphasis on planning and 
design disciplines to optimise value from 
their infrastructure programmes. 
We continue to work with governments 
around the world to offer expert opinion 
about how growth can be achieved 
through investment in infrastructure and 
securing vital energy supply for the future. 
We have worked with country leaders  
and their cabinets through one to one 
brieﬁngs and by attending a number  
of trade visits, in particular to the Middle  
East and Asia Paciﬁc regions, where  
there continues to be strong growth 
potential for the Group.
People
Atkins is a people business, and I would 
like to thank our employees in all areas  
of the Group for their hard work and 
dedication over the past year. It is a 
combination of our colleagues’ technical 
excellence and outstanding regional  
and sector capabilities that enables  
us to deliver these results, despite the 
challenging economic environment.  
I would also like to welcome new arrivals 
to the Group: those who are just starting 
their careers, those who have moved  
to Atkins for personal development  
and those who have joined us  
through acquisition.
Board of directors
As chairman of the Board, I am 
responsible for ensuring its effective 
management and processes. I have  
set out my commitment to excellence  
in governance in the Corporate 
Governance Report (pages 64 to 72).
Dr Uwe Krueger succeeded Keith Clarke 
CBE as chief executive ofﬁcer in August 
2011. He has reviewed the Group’s 
strategy and concluded that overall it 
remains appropriate. He has identiﬁed 
three strategic priorities to accelerate  
the growth of the Group: operational 
excellence, portfolio optimisation and 
sector focus. We are making good 
progress against these priorities.
Sir Peter Williams, non-executive director 
and chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee retired from the Board of 
Atkins in September 2011. I would like  
to thank personally Sir Peter, on behalf  
of the Board, for the seven years of 
dedicated service he gave to Atkins.  
I am pleased to report that our existing 
non-executive director, Dr Raj Rajagopal 
has taken over from Sir Peter as chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee.
Also in September 2011, we welcomed 
Rodney Slater as a non-executive director. 
Mr Slater is based in the United States  
and was formerly the secretary of 
transportation under president Bill Clinton 
between 1997 and 2001. Mr Slater’s full 
biography can be found in the Board of 
directors section (pages 58 to 59).
 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a ﬁnal 
dividend of 20.75p per ordinary share in 
respect of the year ended 31 March 2012, 
making the total dividend for the year 
30.5p (2011: 29.0p), an increase of 5.2%. 
If approved at the Company’s annual 
general meeting, the dividend will be  
paid on 31 August 2012 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register on 27 July 
2012. Further details regarding dividend 
payments can be found in Investor 
Information (page 158).
Outlook
The Group’s geographic and sector 
diversiﬁcation continues to provide 
resilience, which is reﬂected in the  
results we have reported for the year 
ended 31 March 2012. Atkins is  
positioned to deliver further growth  
in the year ahead.
Allan Cook CBE
Chairman
13 June 2012
 
Corporate Governance Report. Pages 64-72
 
Board of Directors. Pages 58-59
Full biographies of our Board 
of Directors can be found  
on pages 58-59
 
www.atkinsglobal.com/investor-relations
