 WSP Annual Report 2004  1
Financial Highlights
In the above charts, 2004 and 2005 figures reflect the results of the Group, reporting in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). It is not practicable
to re-state previous years’ results according to IFRS, and therefore the charts reflect the results for 1996 through to 2003 according to UK GAAP as originally reported. Due
to differences between IFRS and UK GAAP , there may be some inconsistency in the charts. Refer to note 30 on page 74 for an indication of the adjustments to comply with
IFRS. Set out in Table 3 on page 9, are the adjustments made to the statutory financial information relating to the taxation of joint ventures and associated undertakings and a
pension credit in 2004 which the directors believe assist with understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
Revenue (£m) Adjusted Earnings per share
(pence)
Adjusted Profit before 
Interest and Tax (£m)
Property
WSP is one of the largest consultants providing management and
design expertise in the property sector throughout the world. Our
expertise ranges from the world’s tallest buildings and corporate
headquarters to hospitals, urban regeneration and leisure.
Revenue Profit Before Employees
Interest and Tax
58% 54% 59%
Transport & Infrastructure
WSP provides expert advice on a wide range of transport 
related engineering projects, including roads, rail, bridges, tunnels 
and utility services. Our extensive experience includes planning,
analysing, designing and managing projects for a wide range of
service providers.
Revenue Profit Before Employees
Interest and Tax
29% 31% 30%
Revenue Profit Before Employees
Interest and Tax
13% 15% 11%
Environmental
WSP combines long experience from environmental projects with
commercial awareness and an understanding of the property and
financial sectors. WSP delivers business solutions on a global basis 
that range from sustainability consulting to due diligence auditing to
contaminated land and financial engineering of environmental liabilities.
