 4 WSP 2003
I am pleased to report a successful
year for the Group with good results. 
Our order book has improved once
again this year through major project
wins, more framework agreements and
importantly a deeper penetration into
many of the markets in which we
work. The long-term order book is now
at a record £410 million, an increase of
more than 35% on the previous year. 
In addition, I am delighted to confirm
that we have recently been appointed
as multi disciplined designers for the
North Staffordshire Hospital and two
other significant medical facilities,
several high rise commercial and
residential buildings in Asia, UK and
USA and a number of road and rail
appointments in Europe, including 
the City Line Rail Link in Stockholm. 
Financial Results and Dividends
Turnover for the year, excluding our
share of joint ventures and associated
undertakings, increased by 8.5% to
£283.6m (2002: £261.5m).In addition,
we have seen net profit margins 
rise across the Group and operating
profit, before exceptional items 
and amortisation of goodwill, has
increased to £16.0m (2002: £14.5m),
an increase of 10.7%. Total operating
profit increased to £8.5m from £2.8m.
Despite the increase in turnover and 
the payment during the year of the
final deferred consideration due in
respect of one of our acquisitions 
in the USA, net debt has fallen to
£44.6m (2002: £45.6m).
Following an adverse arbitration
hearing in the last quarter of 
2003, and a negotiated settlement
concluded in January 2004, the
Group has an exposure of up to
£2.25m on a contract claim arising
from 1991, against a company WSP
acquired in late 1993. The directors
have considered it prudent to
provide for the Group’s maximum
exposure in respect of this matter 
as an exceptional item.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date
we have renewed our long term banking
facilities, on more favourable terms
than before, in order to replace the
existing syndicated facility which was
due to expire in May 2004.
In view of these results and our 
stated dividend policy, the directors
propose to maintain the dividend at
2002 levels, with a final dividend of
3.0p (2002: 3.0p) which, together 
with the interim dividend of 2.0p
(2002: 2.0p), gives a total for the 
year of 5.0p (2002: 5.0p). 
I consider the Group to have strengthened its position considerably over the last twelve
months and improved its standing in many of the markets in which we work. With this
increased resilience and the growing order book I look forward to further improvements
in financial performance this year which will contribute to enhancing shareholder value.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DAVID TURNER Chairman 
WSP_R&A03 ARTWORK  29/3/04  12:10  Page 8 WSP 2003 5
Review of Activities
WSP is a major international multi-
disciplinary consultant operating in 
all market sectors in the UK and
Scandinavia, with an increasing
presence worldwide. From this position
we have seen considerable success in
progressing cross-selling opportunities,
particularly in international markets,
and we have been awarded a number
of commissions using skills from both
within country and across border. I am
naturally pleased that our strategy of
diversification and the resultant ability
to cross-sell is proving to be successful
and a direct contributor to our
improved order book.
Our transport and infrastructure
business, operating primarily in the
UK, Sweden and Africa has seen
significant growth with improving
margins and some notable contract
wins. We will continue to develop
this business and expect to benefit
from the continued and increasing
commitment to public sector
expenditure, both in the UK 
and Sweden. 
The progress of our environmental
business has been very satisfactory
with a 27% increase in profits from an
ever increasing and diversified client
base both here and overseas. This
performance is particularly pleasing as
environmental has, for the most part,
been developed organically.
In property, where we have a greater
exposure to the private sector, we
have experienced another year with
no material change in market
conditions. However, we have more
than held our position by increasing
our involvement as consultants to
major PFI projects in education,
defence and, importantly, health
where we have recently won three
major hospital projects. Commercial 
work has remained slow whilst
residential and retail have been
particularly active, demonstrated 
by the successful completion of the
Bullring, Birmingham and the
commencement of a significant urban
regeneration scheme at Paradise
Street, Liverpool for Grosvenor.
With the support of our businesses
in the United States we have won 
a number of projects around the
world in the growing high-rise
development market, and this
confirms the added value these
businesses bring to the Group.
In the United States we have
encountered difficult trading
conditions, which in turn have impacted
on our financial results. However, I 
can report that we have responded
quickly to changing market conditions
both by reducing costs and focusing 
on those areas of business that remain
active. We are now well placed to
benefit from the upturn, which we
anticipate in the months ahead.
Generally our other international
operations have seen improved
performances particularly in
Southern Africa. In Asia we have
continued to experience difficulties,
however the introduction of new
management coupled with an
improving economy should contribute
to an improvement this year.
RAIL NETWORKS
Significant contracts for major long term rail projects
have been won both in Sweden and the UK
WSP_R&A03 ARTWORK  29/3/04  12:10  Page 9 6 WSP 2003
Directors
During the year Peter Welch, who had
been chairman of WSP since 1993,
retired from the Board, as did Jan
Åkesson who joined in 2001. I would
like to thank both for their contribution
to the development of WSP .
We have also welcomed two new
independent non-executive directors,
Christopher Stephens and Caroline
Brown, who I am sure will continue to
contribute significantly in the future.
Staff
I am very appreciative of the
commitment and hard work of all our
staff, who are now well accustomed 
to the various markets in which we
work and who have ensured the
improving performance of the Group.
Furthermore, I congratulate them 
on winning a number of large and
prestigious projects during the year.
The Future
I expect most of the markets in 
which we work to remain similar 
with continued strong growth in the
public sector; however, we are seeing
evidence of recovery in the United
States, and some early indications of
an improvement in the private sectors
in both the UK and Sweden. I also
believe our environmental operations
will benefit from the improvements in
these markets.
I expect our order book to grow
further this year, which will continue
to demonstrate the benefits of our
broad skill and regional base which
will improve our position to win major
projects through cross-selling.
The directors will maintain, as a
priority, their strategy and emphasis
on existing core business delivery,
where controlled growth, added value
activities, and uncompromising quality
service to clients will ensure ongoing
improved performance.
The Group will continue to remain
alert, though cautious, to corporate
opportunities that may present
themselves as the year progresses. 
I consider the Group to have
strengthened its position considerably
over the last twelve months and
improved its standing in many of the
markets in which we work. With this
increased resilience and the growing
order book I look forward to further
improvements in financial performance
this year which will contribute to
enhancing shareholder value.
DAVID TURNER
Chairman 
5 March 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
BARCLAYS BANK HEADQUARTERS, London
WSP is acknowledged as a world leader in the
design of high-rise buildings
WSP_R&A03 ARTWORK  29/3/04  12:10  Page 10
