 Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report a successful year
for the Group with good financial results
that have exceeded expectations.We
have seen increased turnover with
maintained profit margins together with
improved operating profits and strong
cash-flows from our trading activities.
Our order book is at another record
level, with more than £500m of secured
orders representing a 23% increase on
last year.The quality of this order book 
in terms of prestigious projects and long
term framework agreements confirms 
our leading position in the market and
underpins the sustainability of our 
future operations.
These good results also reflect the
improvement in our overall operational
performance coupled with our ability to
win market share from our competitors.
Financial Results and Dividends
Turnover for the year, including our 
share of joint ventures and associated
undertakings, increased to £328.2m
(2003: £298.9m), and this generated an
operating profit, before amortisation of
goodwill, of £17.8 m (2003: £13.8m),
an increase of 30%. Operating profit
increased by 46% to £12.4m 
(2003: £8.5m).
Basic earnings per share has more than
doubled to 7.6p (2003: 3.6p), and fully
diluted earnings per share before
amortisation of goodwill has increased 
by 29% to 16.0p (2003: 12.4p).
We have also seen strong operating cash
flows from our trading activities of
£24.0m (2003: £17.3m) and despite the
outflows of £9m arising from one-off
transactions including the closure of the
Swedish cross currency swap and the
payment of a contractual claim, net debt
has remained stable at £45.0m 
(2003: £44.6m).
In view of these results and our stated
dividend policy, the directors believe that
it is appropriate to increase the proposed
final dividend to 3.2p (2003: 3.0p) giving a
full year dividend of 5.3p (2003: 5.0p)
representing an increase for the year of
6%, the first increase since 2001.
Review of Activities
Our largest business segment, Property,
has progressed well and the hard work
over the last few years to improve our
business is now beginning to show
tangible rewards. As a world leader in the
commercial and financial private building
sector, we will particularly benefit as this
area continues to improve and this is
already noticeable in the USA where we
have seen stronger markets.
Our appointment to many prestigious
projects, particularly in the high-rise
sector, has been significant and I am
pleased to say that we are working on
more tall building projects under
construction in this country and in 
New York than any of our competitors.
Our involvement with so many major
schemes throughout the world in different
stages of design and construction has
created a unique market position enabling
us to promote our services for
consideration on many future projects.
Our skill and experience to cross-sell and
deliver all our services on a major project
makes WSP one of a select group of
international businesses with this unique
capability and presents the opportunity for
us to continue to grow our market share.
Our global Environmental business has
performed well and we continue to invest
to grow, diversify and strengthen the
business. Our focus has been on opening
new and strengthening existing offices
around the world to service our increasing
number of global clients with whom we
have won long-term framework agreements
and we have been successful in recruiting
many talented individuals to provide high
value consultancy support to deliver this
growth and geographical coverage.
The Transportation sector in Sweden,
where we are the market leader, has
flourished, and we have won a number
of high profile projects reflecting the
Government’s long-term financial
commitment to maintain and improve
the country’s infrastructure.This has not
been as evident in the UK where new
appointments were slow to materialise
and given our relative size in this market
we have seen a decline in margins.
However, we have once again received
an excellent CAT score from the UK
Highways Agency and we expect to
benefit from this in the year ahead.
The majority of our international activities
outside Europe have progressed well,
particularly in South Africa where
excellent growth and financial
performance has been achieved.We
continue to win projects in many new
countries including Libya, Serbia, Estonia,
Latvia, Romania, the Middle East and India
which maintains our diversification strategy
of generating 20% of our revenues from
work outside the UK and Scandinavia.
2 WSP Annual Report 2004
David Turner
Chairman
I am confident we will build on these good financial results to deliver continued growth, improved
profit margins, strong cash flows and an increasing long-term order book which includes major
international projects. Staff
Our performance this year and the
foundations now laid down for the future
have been delivered by our loyal and
talented international workforce of more
than 5,300 people. My thanks to them all
for their hard work and dedication and I
share their optimism for the future.
We have seen progress this year in the
retention of key staff as well as success in
recruiting a number of high profile senior
managers.We are very mindful of the
need to achieve our goal as the preferred
employer in our sector and we have
increased our investment in all aspects of
professional development and training.
The Future
We have a clear strategy where organic
growth remains a priority complemented
by strategic start-up businesses and niche
acquisitions to reinforce our existing
operations.We have also identified new
sectors and countries we wish to enter
progressively in order to develop our
core activities further.
Our focus on high added value
appointments will continue and to
support this we have recently established
a new management consultancy division.
In addition, we have a specific target to
improve the efficiency of our workforce
through improved resource management,
increased use of our off-shore, low-cost
design production centre and efficient,
central infrastructure support.
Our long-term order book, which is
evenly split between public and private
sector work, will continue to grow with
more success in winning major
international projects, where our unique
multi-skilled technical services will be
employed. Our portfolio includes some of
the world’s greatest projects, providing a
real testament to the Group’s progress
and position on the world stage.
We are confident that our global
Environmental business, which competes
with the world’s largest providers, will
continue to develop in this increasing
and important market. Our
entrepreneurial drive to enter new
sectors and countries will ensure we are
well placed to service our increasing
number of multinational clients.
I expect our world markets to remain
stable and I consider we are well
positioned to address these prevailing
conditions. I am optimistic that the UK
and Scandinavia will see progress in the
commercial markets and that growth in
the USA will be maintained.
We have a strong management team who
have now built the appropriate platform
and structure to continue the strategic
growth of the Group.
I am confident we will build on these
good financial results to deliver
continued growth, improved profit
margins, strong cash flows and an
increasing long-term order book which
includes major international projects. As
a result of this performance and our
position as a leader in the market I
believe we will deliver enhanced
shareholder value in the year ahead.
David T urner
Chairman
4 March 2005
WSP Annual Report 2004  3
The Winter Garden, New York City
This atrium at the World Financial Centre connects
restaurants with three levels of retail space and
serves as a unique venue for public events, concerts
and gala receptions.
