 4 WSP Annual Report 2005
Chief Executive’s Review
The future strategy of the Group is clear, ambitious and importantly, achievable.The strategy
does not promote radical change, but it does progress continued diversification which remains
one of the cornerstones of our growth.
I am pleased to report that all aspects
of our business have made excellent
progress in 2005. We have seen
increases in both revenue and profit,
coupled with an improvement to our
overall net profit margin. Careful cash
management has reduced our net debt
ahead of expectations.
Our order book has continued to
increase throughout the year and now
stands at £580m, a 15% improvement
compared to this time last year.
Furthermore, our secured work, on a
rolling 12 months basis, is at a record
level of 70% of targeted revenue, with
framework agreements and other long
term procurement arrangements
making up 40% of our order book.
Our unequalled range of
multidisciplinary skills continues to be
successfully cross-sold to our broad
client base, which in turn has ensured
an increase in our market share.
As we expected, over the course of
2005, the division of work has became
a little more private sector biased.
However there are regional
differences with Sweden remaining
evenly divided between the public and
private sectors. In the UK we are
seeing increasing activity in the private
sector and the busy market in the
USA remains predominantly private.
We have made progress in staff
retention and the recruitment of
quality staff and our worldwide
workforce has increased to more than
6,000 people, thus reinforcing our
prominent position in all our markets.
The Group structure, supported by
effective management and processes,
has ensured a resilient platform to
control our diverse operations.
We are focused on embedding the
culture that excellent client care and
service are paramount business
priorities, providing added value to our
clients and thus improving
performance.We continue to regard
this as the fundamental cornerstone of
our business. This culture, when
combined with our activities to
enhance our efficiency through
improved management and investment
in the latest technologies, has
continued to ensure a sustainable
improvement in all aspects of our
performance.
We have experienced stable and
generally robust markets in the
sectors and regions in which we work.
There has been particularly strong
demand in the USA, Southern Africa
and the Middle East, whilst the public
sectors of the UK and Scandinavia
remain buoyant. Many areas in the
private sector continued to be active
including urban regeneration, aviation
and residential, and we are seeing
improvements in the commercial and
financial markets in the UK and the
industry sector in Scandinavia. In line
with our expectations, the
Environmental business continues to
grow significantly on a global basis in
strong markets with a continual
demand for an increasing range of
expertise and technological solutions.
During 2005 we have made a number
of small acquisitions in the UK,
Scandinavia and in the Middle East. In
order to complement our already
strong position in the UK health and
education market, we acquired front-
end consultancies, IBS and Edunova, to
position us higher up the value supply
chain. In Dubai we acquired a
property design consultancy to
reinforce and extend our existing
small business in the region and since
this transaction was completed in April
we have doubled our local resource to
more than 150 people. In Sweden we
acquired Riskteknik, a risk
management business, and Transek, a
traffic management consultant.
Property
Our Property segment, which is
predominantly private sector focused,
has progressed well and represents
58% of our worldwide revenue and
56% of our operating profit, before the
results of associates and joint
ventures. Net profit margins in this
segment have increased from 5.1% to
5.7%. We now hold a prominent
market position in Property services
across all our principal regions of
operation.
In the UK, I believe WSP is the most
diversified consultant with a leading
position in the majority of sectors.
The stable markets and the improving
commercial activity have supported
our growth and this is demonstrated
by our pre-eminence in the high-rise
design market where we are actively
engaged on ten schemes representing
more than half of the current
opportunities in this country.
Our urban regeneration and retail
skills have ensured our appointment to
major new schemes in Dublin, Bury St
Edmonds and Glasgow. The residential
market remains strong both in terms
of large, high quality city centre
projects and the master planning of
extensive rural developments in cities
such as Swindon, Cambridge and
Exeter.The recovering commercial
sector has provided significant new
appointments from clients including
Land Securities, Hammerson and the
Royal Bank of Scotland.
Christopher Cole Chief Executive WSP Annual Report 2005  5
Our framework activities in the
aviation sector continue where we act
for BAA and British Airways at
Terminal 5, Heathrow. In addition, we
have been won substantial work at
Luton Airport and our existing
appointments on the new Stansted
terminal are progressing well. We
were also pleased to have supported
BAA in their successful management
bid for Budapest Airport.
In the health sector, notwithstanding
the current funding issues faced by the
Local Health Trusts, our existing
projects are unaffected and we
continue to work on new enquiries.
In addition, the Building Schools for
the Future programme is providing
new opportunities in education,
underpinned by our selection as
BECTA framework consultants in this
sector.
In Sweden, similar market dynamics
exist but added to this is our
participation in a strong industrial
sector, including steel, mining, paper
and pulp for clients including Stora
Enso, LKAB and ARLA. Low interest
rates have ensured continued activity
in the residential market where we are
a leading designer with attractive
“green” credentials. Whilst increased
activity in the commercial sector is
not yet evident, there is a new
optimism for imminent progress. The
Government’s strong and predictable
public sector expenditure
commitment underpins our ongoing
workload in health and education, with
service offerings complemented by
our UK experience.
In Finland, where we now employ
nearly 300 people, we completed the
design for the timber office
headquarters project for Finnforest,
the largest such structure in Europe,
which has received national
recognition and awards. To strengthen
our operation and accelerate
integration, we have recently
appointed a new managing director.
Multiconsult, our associated
Norwegian company, has delivered a
strong trading performance from their
diverse markets which notably include
the oil and gas sector. Small local
operations in Germany, Poland and
France have each contributed to
Europe’s significant contribution.
In the USA, where Property is our
principal area of activity, the
performance has been excellent. We
work on some of the world’s largest
and tallest schemes including the 15
million square foot mixed leisure
development in Las Vegas for MGM,
which has enabled us to open a local
office and we have just opened
another local office in Los Angeles.
The USA order book is currently at
record levels underpinned by projects
including the Freedom Tower,Walt
Disney Family Foundation Museum and
Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Our
USA reputation and experience on
such major projects has contributed
to the winning of other large
international projects in Asia, the
Middle East and the UK.
South Africa has had another good
year with substantial growth in what
are considered strong local market
conditions influenced by more stable
interest and currency rates. Our work
in Africa is carefully developing into
new territories, including Nigeria,
Ghana,Tanzania and Mozambique, and
the future 2010 World Cup continues
to provide business confidence and
opportunities.
We are pleased that our small Asia
business under the direction of a new
managing director has shown
sustainable progress. We have
maintained our presence in Hong
Kong whilst increasing in China,
particularly Shanghai, in addition to
our smaller offices in Beijing and
Shenzhen. We have secured large
leisure projects in Macau and
commercial schemes in Shanghai. The
off-shoring facility in the Philippines
continues to service the Group as a
low-cost production centre. We still
consider the markets unchanged but
we have had some success in
penetrating specific sectors. Our
presence in the region has also aided
our offices in the UK and USA to win
high-value, front-end consultancy work
in the region.
The progress in the Middle East,
particularly Dubai, has been very
satisfying following the local acquisition
of PHB in April 2005. Following the
merging of our local business, the re-
branding as WSP and securing larger
premises, growth and financial
performance have been significant. We
are working on landmark projects
including the City of Arabia with a $1
billion construction value, Dubai
Festival City, Dubai International
Financial Centre and the Mall of the
Emirates, currently the largest
shopping mall outside North America,
which opened recently. As activity 
New Providence Wharf, London
WSP is delivering multi-disciplinary services to this
development that includes 1050 homes and an hotel. increases in other Gulf regions,
notably Qatar and Abu Dhabi, we are
looking to open new offices in these
locations to further build upon the
work other offices have already won
in the area.
We have recently opened an office in
Delhi to explore the opportunities for
the Group in India and provide an off-
shoring production facility for the
Middle East, which will also act as a
back-up for our existing facilities in
the Philippines.
Transport and Infrastructure
Our Transport and Infrastructure
segment, which focuses principally on
the public sector road and rail markets
in the UK, Scandinavia and South
Africa represents 29% of our
worldwide revenue and operating
profit, before the results of associates
and joint ventures. Net profit margins
in this segment, including joint
ventures, have increased from 5.7% to
5.9%. During 2005 we have also
secured transport projects in other
regions including China, Estonia, Serbia
and Romania.
The principal market in the UK
remained unchanged with our
emphasis being on the roads sector.
We were recently appointed to two
significant projects by the UK
Highways Agency, our largest UK
client, which complements our existing
framework agreements. We are
penetrating the Local Authority
market with further wins from Essex
County Council, the London Borough
of Barnet, Dublin Council and
extensions to our major appointments
with Transport for London and
Westminster City Council. I am
pleased to announce the appointment
of a new UK Managing Director
whose brief is to progress our growth
and financial performance in this
sector.
Our joint venture with Carillion for
Yorkshire,Area 12, has performed
excellently throughout the year and
provides encouragement for future
such ventures. The reassessed CAT
(Capability Assessment) score
continued to secure our position as
technically in the top three consultants
operating in the UK. The successful
early completion of the M25 widening
and Terminal 5 Heathrow access has
been positively acclaimed.
Although the Group carries out only
limited rail line work in the UK, we
have seen opportunities arising from
Network Rail’s realisation of their
substantial station assets. In particular,
we were very pleased to be appointed
as lead consultants to the £350m
redevelopment of New Street Station,
Birmingham which complements our
existing extensive activity in the city.
In Sweden we remain the most
prominent consultant in both the road
and rail sectors.The National Rail and
the Road Administration of Sweden
are the Group’s largest clients and we
have continued to win major awards in
all regions, including the Western Link
in Gothenburg and the Botnia line in
the north. Our work on the Southern
Link road tunnel under Stockholm
received a national award. The recent
acquisition of Transek AB in 2005 and
the earlier acquisition of Inregia
presents a high-value transportation
service to the market.
In Finland, where our business has an
international reputation in bridge
design we have completed the Binh
Bridge in Vietnam and we are also
working on projects in Africa and India
as well as securing new projects in
South America. In South Africa, we are
the principal consultant to the N3
motorway between Durban and
Johannesburg, a project that has
generated substantial revenue.
Elsewhere, Aid Agency work has
resulted in projects in the West Indies,
T urkey, Bangladesh,Vietnam, Ukraine
and we have established a significant
presence in Libya to support a major
infrastructure project in Tripoli, which
will continue for some years.
Environmental 
Our Environmental segment, has again
delivered strong organic growth with
revenue growing by 25%, representing
13% of our worldwide revenue and
15% of our operating profit, before the
results of associates and joint
ventures. Net profit margins in this
segment have also increased from
7.0% to 7.3%.
Having grown consistently from a zero
base 10 years ago, we now have
established operations in the UK,
Scandinavia and South Africa with
newer businesses in the USA and the
Middle East.To continue our global
strategy and provide our clients with
increased coverage we have opened
offices in China, Italy, Romania, France
and we are currently reviewing a
future presence in Australia.
Our order book continues to
incorporate global framework
agreements with new clients such as
Chief Executive’s Review – continued
6 WSP Annual Report 2005
Binh Bridge,Vietnam
WSP’s team of bridge specialists prepared the feasibility study and detailed design for the 1,347m bridge at
Haiphong which was opened in May 2005. Seagate, Cisco Systems, and Deutsche
Bank which demonstrates our position
as one of the few global environmental
consultants.
The UK market continues to present
diverse opportunities which last year
included acting for Abbey National on
the UK’s largest property transaction
with ING, the design of the first
carbon neutral airport terminal at
Stansted and environmental planning
for the redevelopment of the
Birmingham Gateway.
We delivered a much improved
performance in Sweden, where we are
moving away from the delivery of
commodity services, and focusing on
innovative environmental and energy
technology, creating a knowledge base
which we transfer to our clients
worldwide.
We are witnessing growth in the areas
of sustainable master planning,
corporate outsourcing of
environmental and social responsibility
reporting, carbon trading and risk
liability transfer, and we are using these
skills to support our entry into new
territories.With regard to energy, we
will shortly be launching WSP Energy,
utilising existing resources and
supplemented, where appropriate, with
new recruitment to provide the global
market with expert management and
design services across a wide range of
energy issues. In addition, to address
the opportunities in waste
management, we have formed 
WSP Waste.
Staff
Firstly, my sincere thanks to all our
directors and staff for their hard work,
commitment and motivation in
delivering an excellent set of results.
During the year we have engaged wide
audiences from within the Group at
conferences, workshops and
presentations to convey to them our
progress, future strategy and thanks. I
am pleased with the confident and
positive demeanour seen throughout
our business regarding our
performance and prospects.
With growth this year of nearly 15%,
recruitment and retention of staff has
been a priority. Our management and
human resource support continually
strive to achieve our objective of being
the preferred employer in all our
sectors.With the exception of Asia,
where we have restructured, we have
improved our overall retention rate
and have different targets set for our
various operations and staff grades
going forward.The Group overall
target is to achieve a voluntary staff
turnover worldwide of 12% and we
achieved 14% in 2005.
Strategy and Outlook
The future strategy of the Group is
clear, ambitious and importantly,
achievable.The strategy does not
promote radical change, but it does
progress continued diversification
which remains one of the
cornerstones of our growth.We
continue to identify new sectors, skills
and regions in which to develop the
Group, while ensuring we maintain a
thorough understanding of the
markets in which we work.We remain
convinced that well researched
diversification ensures resilient growth
and smoothes operational
performance through inevitable
market and economic cycles.
We expect to deliver profitable
growth with increased margins
through organic and niche acquisitions.
In 2005, we more than achieved the
first step of our five year strategy plan
with our goal, over that time, to
increase our revenues by more than
50% and deliver net profit margins of
above 7%, excluding any significant
acquisitions that may arise.
Our commitment to improve
continually the efficiency of our
operations and the embedded culture
of client care and client relationships,
will ensure we continue to improve
our overall performance.As we grow
we are mindful of the need to ensure
a mature management and technology
infrastructure, and we are
implementing the appropriate changes
in a timely manner.
We expect all areas of the Group to
grow in the coming years and
particularly the attractive
environmental, energy, and waste
sectors together with potential PFI
opportunities in Europe.We will
continue to enter and develop new
regions and make further progress in
the Middle East, India and 
Eastern Europe.
We believe our environmental
business will continue to deliver
strong global growth underpinned by
the increasingly growing and diversified
global market, the recognition of our
brand and resource, major company
trends to outsource all aspects of the
environmental and CSR agenda, and
importantly the maturing ability and
motivation of our management and
workforce to manage growth.
We will continue to build upon our
UK success in cross selling our unique
and diverse range of services to our
clients, whilst ensuring the promotion
of a single source consultancy
worldwide. Our focus on developing a
global business and securing an
increased global client base is
supported by our business
development commitment and related
strategic investment.
With our markets expected to remain
stable and generally strong, together
with the continued growth of the UK
commercial sector and recovery of
this business area in Europe, we
remain very confident that our long
term order book will continue to
grow with high quality project wins. In
the UK we are experiencing early
opportunities directly relating to the
2012 Olympic Games, where clients
are already addressing the
enhancement of their strategically
located property portfolios.
I am very pleased with our progress
and performance in 2005. I believe we
are well positioned, financially and
operationally, to responsibly achieve
ongoing strong growth.
I am therefore confident, and know
this view is shared by my management
and staff, that we will continue our
growth in 2006 and beyond.
Chris Cole
Chief Executive
9 March 2006
WSP Annual Report 2005  7
