 4 WSP Annual Report 2004
Chief Executive’s Review
We remain focused on the long-term benefits of providing our clients with a single point
consultancy through the cross-selling of our unique range of services and the opportunity to
lead major projects.
I am particularly pleased with our 2004
performance which has demonstrated
how well we have built upon the hard
work of the previous year.We have
continued to be focused on improving 
the business and providing the very best
service to our Clients.We have seen an
overall increase in net turnover and
operating profits of nearly 9% and 46%
respectively with our overall margins
maintained, good cash flow and significant
growth in our order book.
The markets in which we work have
remained similar to last year with
continued strong demand in the public
sector and mixed demand in the private
sector.Transportation has generally
remained sound, whilst we did note some
temporary delays in the UK roads market
in the second half of last year.We have not
yet witnessed any material improvement in
demand from the rail sector in the UK
whereas in Sweden, where we are a
market leader, activity is strong.
Health, education, prisons and defence
sectors have remained good, as have
residential and urban regeneration
schemes in all our regions.The retail and
leisure markets, as part of long-term
urban regeneration and mixed
development schemes, have remained
satisfactory. Our European industrial
sector has continued strongly. However,
the commercial and financial sectors
remained quiet, but we have witnessed
some improved activity.
Our global Environmental operations
have seen growth, gaining market share in
a growing market and presenting
themselves to a widening diversity of
clients across the world where they have
entered into a number of new
framework agreements.
We are increasingly moving towards
higher value front-end management
consultancy appointments and we have
realigned this part of our business to
ensure we focus on improving our
penetration into client organisations.
Our improved business has performed
well in these stable market conditions.
The Group’s infrastructure has provided
excellent support and I am pleased with
the manner in which we have matured in
this respect.
The strengthening of our long-term
order book to £505m is a sound
indicator of our strong position in the
market. It is also rewarding to note that
growth in orders has occurred in all of
our principal territories and that
framework and long term agreements
with major clients account for 40% of
the total.We have continued to receive
appointments where we have cross sold
all our skills and sometimes linked up 
our different territories, thus enhancing
the quality of our order book and
demonstrating our global reach. In
addition, our prominent market position
is presenting opportunities for major
projects where we are the overall
project leader. 2004 was a good year 
for our long-term order book and we
retained a desirable even split between
the private and public sector as well as
seeing good progress internationally.
Property
This largest division, which operates in all
regions, accounts for nearly 60% of the
Group’s turnover and over 50% of the
profit, and therefore I am pleased to see
Property profit margins improving. Our
markets were varied but generally similar
to the previous year, with the exception
of the USA where we saw good growth,
which has been achieved without any
material recovery in the commercial and
financial markets.
Our position in the UK and Europe has
strengthened throughout the year.
Sweden’s performance has been
underpinned by major industrial projects
and also winning two city centre
relocation schemes and two prominent
hospital projects, and the UK has benefited
from our leading position in urban
regeneration, health and education.The
range of work in the UK includes projects
such as the redevelopment of Great
Ormond Street Hospital, Addenbrookes
Hospital in Cambridge, and major schools
and prison programmes in Scotland.
Interestingly, after some years, we have
recommenced the design of high
technology data and call centres.
In Scandinavia we have been particularly
active in the industrial and energy markets
where we provide design and project
management services.
In the development arena our UK
transportation planning and modelling
resource, which looks after both the
private and public sectors, is now
regarded as the UK’s pre-eminent
resource in this high value sector and we
have taken initial steps to export this
expertise abroad.
Our international reputation has been
significantly underpinned through our
involvement on the world’s largest
projects.We are busy on the world’s
Christopher Cole
Chief Executive WSP Annual Report 2004  5
tallest building,The Freedom Tower in
New Y ork City , and Europe’s tallest, The
Shard of Glass in London.We are
currently involved in more high-rises
under construction in New York and the
UK than any other consultant. In addition,
new global opportunities are arising
regularly in this market to ensure we
maintain our position.
Our diversification strategy is well
illustrated by our involvement in all these
areas of Property and thus our increasing
resilience to the inevitable sector cycles.
The USA markets in which we work
continue to recover and this is evidenced
by our growing order book.The impact of
currency movements meant that our
turnover remained static last year but, as
we draw down on our increased order
book, we expect to see turnover increases
this year. Our new projects include the
New Y ork Plaza Hotel regeneration
scheme, the Brooklyn Arena and
Indianapolis Stadium. Our newer offices in
Seattle and Miami have each progressed
well during the year where we have
received significant new appointments.
Our operations in South Africa have
performed well with excellent growth 
in this region during the year, supported
particularly by their asset management
activities.We are now increasingly working
internationally for South African clients in
various countries, including Qatar and
Morocco, and our activities grow in Africa
overall.The market has been buoyant and
we believe this will be supported by the
award of the forthcoming 2010 Football
World Cup to South Africa.
The year has not seen the progress
expected from our Asia operations, where
we have centres in Hong Kong, Shanghai
and Manila.These markets are difficult but
our performance has been disappointing.
We have therefore made certain changes
and whilst we intend to commit to the
region to support our global activities,
we aim to limit our exposure through
restructuring the business and additionally
employing new management.
In Norway, the performance of our
associate company, Multiconsult, has
improved in line with expectation and in
the Gulf States, where we currently have
minimal presence, we are evaluating various
opportunities to expand in the area.
Our other international activities
continue to develop with new work in
many countries including Libya, Serbia,
Latvia, Nigeria, the West Indies and also
Central Asia, where we have maintained
a consistent presence. Our new office in
India has recently announced its first
meaningful project for road audit work 
in two states on behalf of the Asian
Development Bank.
Transport and Infrastructure
In the UK we had a mixed performance in
our highways and aviation sectors, where
we encountered a temporary reduction in
roads activity in the second half of last
year, which resulted in reduced turnover
and profit. Our size in relation to our
competitors somewhat restricts our
flexibility in addressing any short-term
change. Our leading position in aviation
has delivered a strong performance
particularly with the work associated 
with the building of Terminal 5 at
London Heathrow.
Notable recent wins have included the
new second generation terminal building
for Stansted Airport, where our
worldwide experience was recognised
by the client, and the N6 motorway for
the National Roads Authority in the
Republic of Ireland. In addition, the
Highways Agency recently reassessed
our Capability Assessment (CAT) score
and again our teams performed
excellently, ensuring we remained near
the top of the preferred supplier list.
This rating will ensure we engage with
the principal opportunities in the roads
market and form the most effective
partnerships with other suppliers.We
also participate with the Highways
Agency on two major frameworks for
road planning and our joint venture 
with Carillion on the Area 12 in
Yorkshire is progressing well.
Freedom Tower, New York City 
(Architect: Skidmore, Owings and Merrill LLP)
Our expertise in the design of high rise buildings 
is reflected in our appointment as the structural
engineer for the world’s tallest building. During the year we have refocused our
attention on the Local Authority market
with senior recruitments and some
important framework wins for the City of
Westminster, Newcastle City Council and
the London Borough of Barnet. Growth in
this sector is seen as a business priority.
We have seen little improvement in
railway work during the year. However, we
have recently been engaged in
opportunities arising out of Network
Rail’s review of their considerable assets
related to their main stations.
In Sweden, we have continued to do well
in the strong road and rail market, where
we are now the country’s largest
consultant.The National Road and Rail
Administration have re-confirmed their
significant budgets for infrastructure, where
£11bn is allocated to roads and rail over
the next ten years.We are consultants to
the country’s largest schemes including
new road and rail tunnels, stations and
highways in Gothenburg, Stockholm and
the West Link.
Our other principal businesses which
deliver these services are in Africa and
Finland. Africa has made excellent
progress, illustrated by major project wins
including the supervision of the
Johannesburg to Durban N3 motorways
upgrade, and the Caja bridge in
Mozambique.The businesses in Finland
are experiencing stable markets and our
operations have been complemented by
the acquisition last year of WSP Kortes,
which is an internationally renowned
bridge designer and has recently been
appointed for the Chenab Bridge in India,
the world’s longest single arch railway
bridge. In late 2004 the Finnish businesses
were re-branded to WSP and now
comprise nearly 300 staff.
Environmental
We are an increasingly global operation
with significant presence around the
world.The businesses are represented in
all the Group’s territories and, additionally,
we have a presence ranging from Australia
to the Middle East to various countries in
Europe.This coverage enabled us to work
on projects in 50 countries for global
Clients including Goldman Sachs, Smiths
Industries,Westpac Bank, Seagate Systems
and ANZ Bank.
We have seen solid year-on-year growth
and a good profit margin increase this
year.We continue to recruit talented
people to support our growth and
diversification. Our regions have all been
busy, whilst Sweden, which had a slow
start, initiated some changes in the first
half of the year, to the overall benefit of
their performance.
The markets and opportunities are
significant and diverse, which enable us to
exercise some project selectivity and
develop new professional services.
We challenge the world’s largest
environmental consultants and have
established a bespoke brand in the
market.We continue to focus on higher
value work in the areas of due diligence,
management systems, sustainability and
corporate and social responsibility.
Our global expertise is engaging us in
opportunities on a national scale, where
energy master-plans and carbon emission
models are formulated for cities and
global Clients, and to support this
specialist area we acquired a small niche
company in Finland, EMP , which has this
acknowledged expertise.
Staff
My sincere thanks to our directors and
staff for their energy and enthusiasm to
deliver an excellent set of results.Whilst
ensuring such achievements, they have
also strengthened the Group through
recruitment and improved retention. Our
2004 staff surveys and improved retention
statistics have confirmed this progress to
our goal of becoming the industry’s
preferred employer.
Our directors and staff have all played
their part in strengthening the Group and
ensuring ongoing sustainability and I sense
their optimism for the future.
Future Strategy and Outlook
During 2004 we have reviewed our future
strategy and outlined the principal goals of
the Group.
We are clear in our ambition and
expectations for growth, improved
performance and continued diversification
within our overall sectors.We have
identified areas of our business to develop
as well as sectors and territories to
reinforce and enter, particularly in the UK
and Europe. Organic growth, which
remains an imperative, supported by
strategic local acquisitions and start-ups,
will continue to ensure further progress.
The Group remains focused on the needs
of the Operational Plan which has
provided such a sound platform for this
year’s performance and future growth.We
will continue to ensure that the Group’s
infrastructure and costs effectively
complement our growing operations.We
have implemented action to ensure we
can improve on the utilisation of our staff
and we will increase the usage of our
low-cost production centre in Manila, and
Chief Executive’s Review – continued
M25 Motorway Heathrow, London
WSP are part of the consortium with Balfour Beatty
to widen the M25 including the spur to the new
Terminal 5 at Heathrow, where we are also
providing environmental and multi-disciplinary
engineering services.
6 WSP Annual Report 2004
