 06 Strategic Report
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s Statement 
In our 75th year, we celebrated  
our worldwide reputation for 
excellence in design, engineering  
and project management.
>
Performance
I am pleased to report that the Group 
delivered another set of good results. 
During the year, we have made significant 
progress on the delivery of our strategy.
Our operational excellence programme 
has been rolled out into our North 
America and Middle East regions. The 
portfolio optimisation pillar of our strategy 
is now almost complete, following the 
sale of our UK highways services business 
to Skanska, the final stage of which was 
completed in early October. The disposal 
of our construction management at risk 
business, Peter Brown, was also 
completed in a similar timeframe. The 
diversity, breadth and depth of our 
geographic and sector spread continue  
to provide the Group with growth 
opportunities, particularly in our sector 
focus area of Energy and our regional 
growth area of Asia Pacific.
We were delighted to welcome 
Confluence Project Management Pte. Ltd., 
the project and programme management 
business headquartered in Singapore, to 
the Group in October. The team is already 
fully integrated with our Faithful+Gould 
business across the regions and has added 
an attractive client base. Furthermore,  
we are now reaching the final stages in 
achieving regulatory approval for the 
acquisition of Nuclear Safety Associates Inc., 
an engineering and technical services firm 
based in North America. Strategic Report 07 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014
Corporate Information
Chairman’s Statement continued
During the year we also invested in our 
employer brand known as the Atkins Way, 
which is a celebration of how our people 
behave and what motivates them. We 
believe that nobody can tell the story of 
an organisation as effectively and as 
genuinely as the people who work for it, 
so we are using the Atkins Way as the 
foundation of all our communications 
with existing and potential colleagues.
Board of directors
We welcomed a number of new  
Board members this year as Admiral the 
Lord Boyce retired from the Board and 
Joanne Curin stepped down as she took 
up a new position in the Middle East.  
I would like to thank both for their service, 
support and commitment to Atkins.  
Lord Boyce has been highly influential  
as our senior independent director  
and I have greatly appreciated his wise 
counsel. We were pleased to appoint 
Fiona Clutterbuck as senior independent 
director in his place and to welcome 
Allister Langlands and Thomas Leppert, 
who joined the Board as independent 
non-executive directors during the year. 
Allister has succeeded Joanne as chairman 
of the Audit Committee. Joanne has  
made a great contribution to the Board 
and to the leadership of the Audit 
Committee over the last five years and  
for this we thank her.
Rodney Slater will be retiring from the 
Board after our annual general meeting 
on 30 July 2014. He has served the Board 
for three years and I would like to thank 
him for his input during that time.
Alun Griffiths, our Group HR director, will 
also be retiring from the Board after our 
annual general meeting on 30 July 2014. 
Alun has been with the Group for 28 years 
and has served on the Board as an 
executive director for the past seven years. 
I would like to thank Alun for his long-
standing dedication to the Group and for 
his contribution to the Board. He will be 
succeeded as Group HR director by James 
Cullens, who joins us from Hays plc and 
who will join the Board on 1 July 2014.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 23.25p per ordinary share in 
respect of the year ended 31 March 2014, 
making the total dividend for the year 
33.75p (2013: 32.0p), an increase of 
5.5%. If approved at the Company’s 
annual general meeting, the dividend  
will be paid on 22 August 2014 to 
ordinary shareholders on the register  
on 11 July 2014. Further details regarding 
dividend payments can be found in 
Investor Information (page 182).
Outlook
As we look forward to the new financial 
year, we are confident of making further 
progress towards our strategic goals. 
While our markets and clients’ needs are 
constantly evolving, we will continually 
seek ways to deliver their requirements 
effectively and efficiently. We believe our 
exposure to transportation markets across 
the UK and North America provides us 
with a good backlog of business. Our 
Middle East region is benefiting from our 
more focused approach and in Asia Pacific 
we are investing to diversify beyond our 
historic Hong Kong base. In Energy we  
see an attractive pipeline of opportunities. 
Overall, we see positive momentum in  
the year ahead.
Allan Cook CBE
Chairman
11 June 2014
We welcomed 
Confluence Project 
Management Pte. Ltd.  
to the Group in October. 
People
I would like to thank our people for their 
quiet brilliance in helping us to deliver 
some of the most time-critical, complex 
solutions to our clients this year. We have 
a highly engaged and aligned team of 
people who continue to work together  
to make the world just that little bit  
better as a result of the projects they 
deliver. I would also like to thank families 
and friends for supporting our people  
as they go about their work for Atkins  
in all corners of the world.
Maintaining our focus on bringing more 
young people into the engineering sector, 
we welcomed 500 new graduates across 
the Group and accelerated our apprentice 
programme to attract school leavers by 
recruiting over 90 apprentices in the UK.
This year we worked hard to achieve  
our commitment to build a diverse 
organisation. We created a women’s 
leadership council to enable the 50  
most senior women in the business to 
support, mentor and encourage the next 
generation of Atkins’ female leaders.  
Also, women’s professional networks 
around the world became more active  
in their work to ensure women feel 
well-connected across the Group. In 
addition, the UK business was recognised 
by workingmums.co.uk, winning awards 
for Overall Top Employer and Innovation  
in Flexible Working. I am personally 
leading an industry group for the UK’s 
Royal Academy of Engineering with the 
purpose of increasing the number of 
women engineers in the sector.
Our 75th anniversary celebrations in 2013 
gave us an excellent opportunity to involve 
and unite our people around the world. 
We joined together for celebratory  
events and recognised 89 colleagues  
with the Sir William Atkins medal for  
their outstanding achievements.
Human Resources Review
  Find out more about  
our people on page 48 
Our Board of Directors
  Find out more about our  
Board of directors on page 60
Related sections
