 WSP 2003 7
The commitment made last year to improve the Group’s performance in challenging
markets and benefit further from strong markets remains our priority. Our medium
term operational plan prepared last year to ensure we deliver controlled growth, added
value, improved performance and enhanced benefits to our clients and staff will remain
the focus this year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CHRISTOPHER COLE
Chief Executive 
I am pleased with the steady progress
achieved throughout the year following
the restructuring implemented in 2002.
Our operational plan has focused our
concentration on improving the core
businesses, ensuring that our
complementary support services are
correctly matched, with increased
emphasis on efficient delivery of a high
quality service to our clients and wider
business development activities. This
focus has ensured that our principal
activities in the UK and Europe, which
comprise more than 80% of the Group’s
turnover and profit, have improved their
performance in all sectors.
We have further increased our already
strong position in the public transport
and infrastructure sector and I can
report solid growth, where we have
achieved more than 10% increase in
turnover and an excellent 24% uplift 
in our profit with more than 12%
improvement on our margin.
Our young organically grown
environmental company has delivered,
as promised, significant well-earned
growth from their diversified client
and business base. Their turnover 
has grown by 16% and their profit 
by 27% on improved margins.
Our property activities, which are
mainly private sector, have more than
maintained turnover and contribute
more than 50% of the Group’s
turnover. I am pleased that this sector,
with mixed market conditions, and
having borne the majority of the
Group’s restructuring in 2002 has
shown improved margins in the UK
and Europe.
In our other main regions we
experienced contrasting fortunes. In the
USA very difficult market conditions
prevailed and reduced our turnover 
and margins whereas South Africa has
performed particularly well in stable
markets. Our performance in Asia has
been disappointing for the year, but
significant improvement has been seen
in the second half of the year, which
demonstrates the new management is
steadily turning the business around in
relatively unchanged markets.
The Group’s long-term order book has
further increased driven by our success
in winning more framework agreements,
major projects in all regions and a
general improvement in the penetration
of the markets. This progress in the
strength of our order book to a record
level of £410m confirms early success
of our operational plan with
concentrated business development
and client facing activities, whilst
looking after core businesses. In
addition, we are continually seeing
evidence of our increasingly regarded
global brand, enabling us to be
considered for the largest of projects in
all regions. Our developing cross-selling
culture has enabled an increasing
number of project wins both on a multi-
disciplinary basis in one region and very
pleasingly between regions. We have
linked both clients and project wins as
far apart as Norway to Africa, USA to
Asia and UK to Europe. In addition,
clients to whom we have cross-sold like
Ericsson, IBM, AIG and Royal Bank of
Scotland provide evidence that growth
through our strategy for promoting
cross-selling, facilitated by the global
presence of the Group is both well
founded and deliverable.
WSP_R&A03 ARTWORK  29/3/04  12:10  Page 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
HUNGERFORD FOOTBRIDGE, London
This innovative design provides a key new
pedestrian link in central London
8 WSP 2003
The following brief review of our
principal sectors and regions
highlights our operations and the
opportunities available to us.
T ransport and Infrastructure
In the UK, this market is firmly
forecasting growth in the two principal
activity areas, namely roads and
aviation. The roads programme under
the Government’s direction has a
forecast spend over the next 10 years
of £30bn. We are well placed to further
benefit from this market and build upon
recent successes including the M25
widening and Heathrow T erminal 5
intersection and the recently released
Capability Assessment (CAT) scores
by the Highways Agency. Our dedicated
teams performed very well to ensure
we have achieved one of the highest
consultant CAT scores, which will ensure
that we are a preferred partner of the
similarly high scoring contractors in
tendering for the largest capital projects
proposed in the Government budgets.
In addition, we are participating in
increasing opportunities in Ireland and
for various UK Local Authorities.
During the year we have further
confirmed our premier position in the
aviation sector where we are the only
consultant selected by BAA for three
separate principal building framework
agreements, and as a result our
workload continues to increase. 
In addition, we have recently been
awarded framework agreements by
the Manchester Airport Group. In
addition to our growing participation
in T erminal 5 we expect to benefit
from BAA ’s budgeted capital
expenditure of nearly £5bn over 
the next five years. We have yet to
benefit from our multi-functional
consultancy framework agreement
with Network Rail but expect to do 
so as capital projects emerge.
In Sweden, the National Road and
Rail Administration have recently
confirmed increased expenditure to
£15bn over the next ten years in the
public sectors in which we work. We
are a major force in this market and
we have recently won significant
contracts in both Stockholm and
Gothenburg for major long-term rail,
road and tunnelling projects, and we
expect to continue to benefit from the
growth in this sector.
We have other principal resources in
this sector operating in South Africa
and Central Asia where we continue
to perform well.
The sector of Transport and
Infrastructure is strong in all regions
and we have performed well and will
continue to do so.
Environmental
Whilst managing substantial organic
growth last year this division has
continued to mature globally, and
although the majority of its current
turnover is derived in the UK and
Scandinavia we are seeing an
increasing trend with commissions
on a worldwide basis including
China, Middle East, Eastern Europe
and Africa.  We have, and continue
to invest in a wide range of
services, which uniquely position us
in the market. These services range
from boardroom corporate, social
and environmental guidance to
major remediation of brown field
land to urban sustainability to
international due diligence contracts
for corporate asset management,
investment and transactions.
Increasing legislation presents
further business opportunities in
areas including energy, hazardous
materials and health and safety.
The environmental market is a
growing sector and we are
progressively positioning ourselves 
as one of its leaders.
Property
This division remains our largest by
both turnover and staff. It provides
professional services from concept
stage including strategic traffic
planning for urban regeneration
schemes to the entire engineering
and environmental design and
management of all types of
completed buildings. 
WSP_R&A03 ARTWORK  29/3/04  12:10  Page 12 WSP 2003 9
In the UK and Scandinavia we have
continued to experience quiet
commercial and finance sectors but
reasonably strong residential and
retail markets. In addition, in the UK
urban regeneration projects, where
we are recognised as a market leader,
have continued to provide us with
substantial long-term schemes. In
Sweden our industrial sector
experience has enabled us to be
appointed to the two principal large
pulp and paper projects for Stora
Enso, where the total investment
value of approximately £450m was
approved in late 2003.
The continuing strong residential markets
have provided us with a number of
significant building projects in both the UK
and Sweden and in addition our traffic
planning resource, the largest in the UK,
provides front-end services to major
clients in this sector.
Our commitment to high-rise
development following our acquisition
of the USA business has positioned
us as leaders in this field. This enabled
us last year to win significant high-rise
developments including the tallest
buildings in Leeds, Manchester and
Birmingham which is already under
construction for Beetham. These add
to similar projects already completed
or under construction in Docklands,
including the Barclays Bank
Headquarters. These awards and the
increased demand again for high-rise
buildings position us excellently in the
sector, and similar opportunities on 
tall buildings are being progressed
elsewhere in the world including, of
course, the USA.
A vibrant sector of activity in the UK
property market relates to health,
education, defence and public buildings
procured through the PFI route. We
have had good success in this sector,
particularly health, which has helped
support our turnover in the UK. Major
new hospitals and the new healthcare
initiative, Procure 21 ensure we will be
busy on long-term schemes for years
to come. As a major consultant in this
field we will selectively continue to
position ourselves on future major
projects. Although at present PFI 
has not meaningfully penetrated
Europe, we are well placed to benefit
as it progresses.
In the USA where we principally only
work in the property sector, we have
seen difficult trading conditions.
However, in increasing our business
development activity and addressing
the busier public sectors we have
limited the reduction in turnover , however
the profits have been more adversely
affected. More recently we have seen
improving activity in a number of sectors
on both the East and West coasts.
Some recent significant project wins
include Jets Stadium and Brooklyn
Arena New York, Kansas City Federal
Reserve Bank, JF Kennedy Performing
Arts Centre Washington DC and large
condominium schemes in New Y ork and
Miami. We are encouraged by our
increasing success at cross-selling 
our skills as demonstrated by major
wins by our USA companies for the
Agha Khan University in Karachi and
Embassies in Berlin, Cape Town and 
ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND WORLD HEADQUARTERS, Edinburgh 
Our developing cross-selling culture has 
enabled an increasing number of project 
wins using our multi-disciplinary skills.
WSP_R&A03 ARTWORK  29/3/04  12:10  Page 13 10 WSP 2003
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Stockholm. In addition they work
closely with our Asia business on
work in China for USA clients.
Overall we are appropriately
resourced for the varying markets 
in the property sector and well
positioned to address and benefit
from changes as they arise.
Our operation in Asia is now fully
registered in China with an office and
work in Shanghai. The Hong Kong
market has remained difficult for us
but we have sensed recent signs of
improvement. I therefore expect Asia
to make progress this year.
Our operation in South Africa is
benefiting from restructuring and is
progressing well with significantly
increased turnover and profits. We
provide all sector services in this region
from principal centres at Johannesburg,
Cape Town and Durban.
Our International Management
Consultancy company, operating
worldwide from their centres in 
the UK and Sweden, provides
international support, education 
and management to improve the
transport, infrastructure, financial 
and social elements of developing
countries. They again performed 
well last year with a strong ongoing
long-term order book.
In Europe our Finnish company 
LT-Konsultit also performed well and
we continue to build the business. 
In Norway, Multiconsult, where we
have a 24.7% stake, performed below
expectations following a prudent 
view they have taken on provisions 
for specific projects. However, their
ongoing order book and outlook
remains very strong.
Finally, we have opened an office with
senior local representation in Mumbai,
India. This is a controlled and cautious
investment, which we will consider
extending as we see benefits arising
from this fast growing economy.
Staff
Firstly my thanks to all our directors
and staff for their efforts and
commitment to ensure that the 
Group built on the previous year’s
restructuring and progressed so
positively on many fronts. We
together, have been party to significant
successes throughout the year thus
delivering our improved performance
and importantly strengthening us
further for the coming year.
In addition, we are launching a
reinforcement programme for our staff
to clearly engage them in the Group’s
vision and values, and how we will
continue to deliver them and thus
improve shareholder value, enhance
client service and staff well-being.
We have continued to seek and
employ key and strategic recruits to
further strengthen and widen the
Group’s resource.
Future Strategy and Outlook
The commitment made last year to
improve the Group’s performance 
in challenging markets and benefit
further from strong markets remains
our priority. Our medium term
operational plan prepared last year to
ensure we deliver controlled growth,
added value, improved performance
and enhanced benefits to our clients
and staff will remain the focus this
year. I believe this defined strategy
has already served us well through
2003, and we will maintain continuous
improvement in all businesses.
We will build on our now identified
success in cross-selling the Group’s
significant and varied skills. This
culture has taken time to be
integrated into the company,
particularly where acquisitions have
assisted growth. We are now seeing
the benefits of our perseverance and
opportunities are uniquely presenting
themselves to us – we will continue
and build on this strategy.
I see similar market dynamics this
year in most of our sectors, however
confidence grows in the USA where 
I expect improvements, as I also do 
in Asia. In addition, there are early
signs that some quieter private sector
markets in the UK may gradually
improve as the year progresses.
However, most importantly we are
now better positioned to address the
prevailing markets and also materially
benefit as quieter markets improve. 
I consider that we are continuing to
further enhance our position in our
various sectors and progress towards
being a market leader in all of them.
The maturing WSP brand is being
reinforced and will continue 
to strengthen and thus assist 
this objective.
I therefore believe we are well placed
to achieve ongoing improvements 
in all aspects of our performance 
this year.
CHRISTOPHER COLE
Chief Executive 
5 March 2004
WSP_R&A03 ARTWORK  29/3/04  12:10  Page 14
