 WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 2
INTRODUCTION
I am delighted to be able to report another year of significant
progress and success for White Young Green Plc (WYG). For
the seventh successive year WYG has achieved a record level
of turnover and profit with turnover up 17.3% in the year to
£89.9m (2003: £76.6m) and operating profit before goodwill
amortisation up 15.2% to £7.6m (2003: £6.6m). Operating profit
after goodwill amortisation increased by 12.2% to £6.5m (2003:
£5.8m). In addition the Group has experienced significant growth
in new business resulting in order book increasing in the year by
more than 47% to £200m (2003: £136m) at June 2004 and has
continued to improve working capital management in the year.
This has been a landmark year for WYG’s corporate development
with a successful placing and open offer completed in January 2004
giving the Group the financial resources to complete a total of
seven strategically important acquisitions in the second half of the
year. These acquisitions have broadened and strengthened the
range of complementary life cycle skills now available to clients
from the Group’s in-house resources whilst also providing an
exciting platform for future international growth through the
acquisition, in June 2004, of IMC Consulting Limited.
IMC Consulting is also particularly important in the context of
WYG’s strategic development as it provides social-economic
advisory services to the aid-funded market on large scale, long
term projects to assist in building economic capacity in countries
in transition. This front end service in turn stimulates infrastructure
regeneration and environmental regeneration to the potential
benefit of WYG’s traditional skill sets. It is extremely encouraging
to be able to report that IMC Consulting has secured new
contracts to the value of £10.5m in the first three months of
WYG ownership. This includes a strategically important £8.8m
European Commission project to manage the implementation
of a local economic development programme in KwaZuluNatal,
South Africa. This is one of the largest projects ever placed with
either WYG or IMC Consulting.
The current focus for the Group is therefore to complete the
integration of these new acquisitions to enable WYG to maximise
growth in the months ahead.
RESULTS
Gross turnover grew by 17.3% in the year to £89.9m (2003:
£76.6m) and included a contribution from acquisitions of £5.0m.
Turnover attributable to third parties, on which the Group does
not make a margin, increased to £11.3m (2003: £9.3m) of which
£1.1m was due to acquisitions. The underlying growth of
turnover from continuing operations was therefore 11.0%.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation increased by
15.2% to £7.6m (2003: £6.6m) and included a contribution from
acquisitions of £0.4m. Operating profit after goodwill amortisation
increased by 12.2% to £6.5m (2003: £5.8m). This result was
achieved after writing off the final exposure on outstanding
contracts as a result of the Ballast Plc administration.
Net operating margin, calculated as operating profit before
goodwill amortisation divided by turnover net of payments to
third parties, was 9.6% confirming WYG’s position as one of
the most efficient and profitable professional consultancies in
the support services sector. WYG is, however, committed to
delivering double digit operating margins and it is expected
that the recent acquisitions will assist in achieving this.
Basic earnings per share in the year was 11.1p (2003: 12.0p).
Earnings per share adjusted to exclude goodwill amortisation
was 14.2p (2003: 14.6p). These figures have been impacted by the
share placing and open offer in January 2004. Given the acquisition
activity since then, and in particular the acquisition of IMC Consulting
in June, it is expected that the temporary adverse impact in this
financial year will be mitigated going forward by the turnover and
profitability introduced by the acquisitions.
The financial position of WYG remains strong. Net debt at the
year end was £14.2m (2003: £12.2m) and interest was covered
10.5 times (2003: 7.7 times) by operating profit before goodwill
amortisation. There is a commitment across the Group to control
the investment in working capital and it is pleasing to see working
capital days falling from 125 days to 117 days during the course
of the year. Gearing, defined as total Group borrowings divided
by total net assets, also reduced in the year to 29% (2003: 38%).
DIVIDEND
It is proposed that the final dividend be increased by 10% to
3.7p (2003: 3.35p) per share making a total for the year of 5.9p
(2003: 5.4p). The dividend is covered 2.4 times (2003: 2.7 times)
by adjusted earnings per share and 1.9 times (2003: 2.2 times)
by basic earnings per share. The final dividend will be paid on
7 December 2004 to shareholders on the register at 8 October 2004.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
We enter the new financial year with an order book at record levels, a workforce
committed to delivering excellence and a client base which is broad and diverse.
We remain committed to engaging strategically with our clients over the total
life cycle of their assets and balancing our delivery of service between the
planning, implementing and operating segments of that life cycle. WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 3
VISION
“To be the leaders in the built,
natural and social environment”
VALUES
MISSION
“To deliver success for all
stakeholders, through excellence,
and innovation, by the improvement
of our built, natural and social
environment from concept through
creation to sustainable operation”
TEAMWORK
INTEGRITY
QUALITY
ADAPTABILITY
INNOVATION
CLIENT FOCUS
CARING
Strategies
 Corporate development
 Working infrastructure
 Sales & marketing
 Risk management
 Human resource
 Customer service
 Research & development
Strategies & plans
Factors critical to 
achieving excellence
Performance measurement 
& improvement
Targets & KPIs
Excellence factors
 Technical excellence
 Profit & cash
 Customer satisfaction
 Employee satisfaction
 Leadership
 Service innovation & delivery
 Corporate & individual social
responsibility
WHITE YOUNG GREEN BUSINESS EXCELLENCE
The WYG Business Excellence Model was introduced in July 2004 and sets
out our vision for the future, the values underpinning our behaviour and the
key strategies and plans guiding our actions.
REVIEW OF THE YEAR WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 4
ACQUISITIONS
The second half of the year saw significant corporate activity.
In that time the following businesses were acquired:
Denis Rooney Associates – January 2004
Denis Rooney Associates Limited – January 2004
CETEC Consultancy Limited – January 2004
Hawthorne Kamm Limited – May 2004
IMC Consulting Limited – June 2004
IMC Europe Limited – June 2004
DWP Consulting Limited – June 2004
All of these acquisitions were significant in their own right with
CETEC bringing specialist composite materials and finite element
analysis expertise, Hawthorne Kamm contributing town planning
skills, particularly in the important residential market, and DWP
strengthening WYG’s mechanical and electrical engineering skills
in the Midlands region.
The acquisition of the Denis Rooney businesses in Ireland added
strategically important complementary skills including project
management, cost management and building surveying and was an
important step in the achievement of total project delivery in Ireland.
The acquisition of IMC Consulting has marked a significant step
forward in the evolutionary development of WYG and represents
a step change in the size, skills balance, geographical coverage,
critical mass and earnings potential of the Group. IMC Consulting
provides WYG with a growing, profitable, sustainable and flexible
international management services business stream in growth
markets at the very beginning of the investment life cycle in
those markets and is therefore of significant strategic importance
to WYG. IMC Europe also strengthens and diversifies WYG’s
engineering and environmental business in the Midlands region
bringing with it many core specialisms including ecology, water
quality, hydrogeology and minewater engineering.
BUSINESS EXCELLENCE
As a business WYG is constantly striving to deliver excellence.
To this end 2004 has seen the introduction of ‘Fast Forward’, a
business improvement programme built around the WYG Business
Excellence Model. Business excellence factors have been defined
based on an agreed vision and set of values. These factors will be
measured and improvement targets agreed and set. All members
of staff have been empowered to contribute to this initiative and it
will constitute a key driver in the ongoing development of WYG.
Our vision is for WYG to be leaders in the built, natural and
social environment. The Group prospers because it has staff who
are dedicated and committed to delivering this vision and I would
like to take this opportunity to thank all staff for their exceptional
energy, enthusiasm and commitment which has been consistently
delivered over the past year.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The senior management team at WYG has evolved and been
strengthened in the past year with John Purvis stepping up into
the position of Chief Executive following the retirement of
Richard Brayson, and Denis Connery and Peter Wood joining
the Board as Commercial Director and Non-executive
Director respectively.
I am pleased that this period of management transition has been
achieved seamlessly and I am confident that the Board is now
well structured to not only continue, but to increase, the rate
of growth experienced in the seven years following the merger
of White Young and Ernest Green in 1997.
Given this very positive outlook I feel that it is now an appropriate
time for me to retire from the Board and I will therefore be standing
down as Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting
(“AGM”) in November 2004. I have been privileged to have been a
director of the Group since 1993, firstly of Ernest Green Holdings Plc
and then as Chairman of White Young Green Plc, and have seen the
Group grow from being a £7m turnover regional consulting engineer
to the £120m plus turnover international multi-skilled consultancy it is
today. I have thoroughly enjoyed my time on the Board, have been
proud to have been associated with the Group’s success and feel that
I am leaving at a time when it is ideally placed to prosper further.
I am pleased to confirm therefore that Peter Wood has agreed
to take over as Chairman of WYG with effect from the AGM
to be held in November 2004. Arrangements are also in place
to recruit a third non-executive director and therefore retain the
balance of executive and non-executive directors on the Board.
CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY
WYG’s success this year, and in previous years, has been
underpinned by a clear corporate philosophy for the development
of the business that directly impacts the Company’s acquisition,
business development and recruitment policies. This philosophy
is shared equally by management and staff and is the cornerstone
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 5
of the strength, stability and resilience of the business. 
Key aspects of this philosophy are as follows:
■ WYG operates as an integrated business unit across all
skill sets, offices and business units. There is a single brand,
common corporate objectives and an ethos that recognises
the primary importance of overall Group performance;
■ WYG provides clients with a complementary range of skills
appropriate to the planning, implementation and operation
stages of the life cycle of their key wealth producing assets.
Those assets include the built environment in which they
operate, their interface with, and utilisation of, the natural
environment and the human resources they draw from the
social environment. Having originally developed as a business
involved primarily in the implementation stage, WYG is in
the process of moving to a much more balanced
contribution from all three stages of the life cycle;
■ WYG maintains a policy of diverse sector penetration building
on a demonstrable expertise in all key sectors of the domestic
economy. This provides the business with its stability and
resilience to changes in investment patterns across the
economy and between the public and private sectors.
As a consequence WYG is not sector dependent as the vast
majority of key skills are transportable between sectors. This
flexibility and diversity is fundamental to WYG’s ability to take
advantage of investment commitments from wherever they
may emanate in a continually changing market environment;
■ WYG believes that long term strategic engagement with clients
is much more readily achieved through an appropriate fusion
of strategic management services with the more traditional
technical skills. As a consequence WYG is building a balanced
business, balanced between management services and technical
services, balanced around the asset life cycle and balanced in
terms of sector penetration and key clients. In this way WYG’s
corporate philosophy is to avoid disproportionate dependencies
and thereby maximise both resilience and opportunity;
■ WYG believes strongly that client care should be relationship
focused rather than transaction focused. Long term relationships
are therefore managed and nurtured outwith projects, future
collaborative engagement is pre-planned and appropriate
commercial and problem resolution frameworks are established
at corporate level rather than at project level; and
■ WYG is a people business and as a consequence the
WYG philosophy includes a commitment to encourage
all staff to reach their potential and to participate in the
evolution of policy direction and ethos within the business.
The commitment to staff development and participation can
be measured through the commitment to achieve “Investors
In People” certification across all offices during the course of
2004. This programme is currently ahead of target with the
majority of offices having been recommended for certification
in the first half of the calendar year.
These complementary underlying philosophies have served WYG
extremely well since the inception of the business in 1997 and
they will continue to form the cornerstones of our corporate
development policy in the foreseeable future.
OUTLOOK
The recent acquisition activity and a continued focus on underlying
organic growth has provided a platform from which to deliver
enhanced growth in future years.
We expect that public sector investment in health, education,
law and order and transportation will continue at a high rate and
detect some welcome recovery in private sector markets including
retail, residential, commercial development and financial services.
WYG is particularly well placed to take advantage of that recovery
given the Group’s strong track record in all of those markets and
the proven flexibility of our workforce in being able to respond
positively to changes in investment patterns across the economy.
We enter the new financial year with an order book at record
levels, a workforce committed to delivering excellence and a
client base which is broad and diverse. We remain committed to
engaging strategically with our clients over the total life cycle of
their assets and balancing our delivery of service between the
planning, implementing and operating segments of that life cycle.
Trading is currently in line with expectations and we expect to
continue to deliver value for clients, employees and shareholders.
Gareth Cooper, Chairman
28 September 2004
SUMMARY OF THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
■ A landmark year for WYG’s corporate development
■ Strong financial results for the seventh successive year
■ WYG Business Excellence Model launched
■ Management team strengthened
■ A platform for future enhanced growth established
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
