 The opportunities for the Group as it begins a new financial year are therefore
immense with its strong foothold in both the public and private sector markets,
the platform it has established for future international growth and the wider
appeal it now has to clients as a consequence of the gradual development
of complementary professional skills all around the asset life cycle.
WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
INTRODUCTION
This year has been pivotal in many respects for WYG with
unprecedented volumes of new business being secured, order
book increasing significantly, a major fundraising successfully
completed, seven strategically important acquisitions concluded,
a sustainable framework established for future international
engagement and key new appointments to the Plc Board.
More importantly all of this was achieved against a background
of strong turnover growth, profit growth and margins on net
turnover amongst the best in the industry.
None of this could have been achieved in a people business
without the exceptional levels of commitment, professionalism
and imagination shown by staff throughout the business during
the course of the year. Neither could it have been achieved
without strong, clear and decisive management and, in that
regard, it is appropriate to recognise the important role played
by Gareth Cooper, who retires as Chairman after the AGM in
November of this year, in the growth and development of WYG
over the last eleven years. Gareth’s wise counsel, wealth of
experience and commitment to shareholder value has underpinned
the success of the business in that time, helping it to evolve
seamlessly from a regional Consulting Engineer to the international
multi-skilled business it is today. It is also important to recognise
the significant contribution made by Richard Brayson, the previous
Chief Executive, who retired in December 2003 and who laid the
foundations of the success that the current management team
are building upon as the business embarks on the next stage
of evolutionary corporate development.
During the course of the year two new directors have been
welcomed to the Plc Board. Denis Connery joined WYG as
Commercial Director in November 2003. Denis is a lawyer
by profession and brings a wealth of experience in acquisition
management, contract negotiation, dispute resolution and
commercial management to the Plc Board. In February 2004
Peter Wood joined the Board as an additional non-executive
director to balance and strengthen the team. Peter is an
accountant by profession with extensive Plc experience and
knowledge of corporate finance, investor relations, corporate
governance and business management. He will be of invaluable
benefit to WYG as the pace of corporate development increases
in the months and years ahead. It is therefore pleasing to be able
to report that Peter has agreed to take up the Chairmanship
of WYG when Gareth Cooper retires from the Board.
Arrangements are in place to recruit a third non-executive
director following the appointment of the new Chairman in
order to retain the balance of executive and non-executive
directors on the Board. It is also likely that a Group Operations
Director will be appointed to the Board during the course
of 2005 in order to retain an effective balance of financial,
operational and commercial skills at Plc Board level.
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT
ACQUISITIONS
WYG significantly increased the rate of corporate development
in 2004 by acquiring seven new businesses in the first six months
of 2004 which collectively generated approximately £39m of
profitable turnover in the 12 months prior to acquisition on a
proforma basis. The total initial consideration excluding costs for
these businesses was £17.3m, comprising £12.4m in cash and the
balance in shares. Contingent consideration amounts in total to
a maximum of £2.3m depending upon profit performance in the
first year of WYG ownership. WYG operates as a fully integrated
business and therefore, in line with Group policy, all of these
acquisitions are in the process of rebranding to WYG livery.
WYG always seeks to identify the potential ‘added value’ from
each acquisition over and above the basic trading value of the
business. This can be in the form of cross-selling potential, enhanced
sector penetration, access to new key clients or new markets,
potential future senior managers, new skills, enhanced profile,
track record or simply reputation. It is by realising this ‘added
value’ that WYG can maximise the return from its investment
in acquisitive growth. Further details of each of the acquisitions
completed in the year are provided below together with details
of the added value they contribute to the Group and, where
appropriate, an update on their performance post acquisition.
DRA – Belfast and Dublin
In January 2004 WYG acquired Denis Rooney Associates in
Belfast and Denis Rooney Associates Limited in Dublin (together
“DRA”). DRA were privately owned businesses offering project
management, cost management, building surveying and planning
supervisor services throughout Ireland employing approximately
40 people. The acquisition of these businesses brought WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 7
strategically important cost management services to WYG in
Ireland. This, along with building surveying and commercial project
management, was an entirely new skill set for the WYG Group
enabling the business in Ireland to offer clients a full range of
complementary professional services to assist them in both the
management and design of their projects.
The added value for WYG from these particular acquisitions
includes the cross-selling potential generated by the introduction
of these important new skill sets, enhanced sector penetration in
education, housing and healthcare in particular and more efficient
utilisation of WYG’s existing premises in Belfast which is being used
to co-locate all staff. In addition Denis Rooney, the ex-Principal of
DRA and a leading figure in the Irish business community, has
taken up the position of Chief Executive of WYG Ireland Limited.
CETEC – Southampton
In January 2004 WYG acquired CETEC Consultancy Limited,
a highly specialised structural engineering and project management
consultancy. CETEC provides WYG with complementary niche
skills including finite element analysis, particularly in the context
of specialist structures utilising innovative polymer based
composite materials.
Added value from the CETEC acquisition includes access to
a broad range of high profile professionals and clients actively
supporting the development of new technologies in the field
of structural materials. 
IMC – Nottingham and Overseas
In June 2004 WYG acquired IMC Consulting Limited and IMC
Europe Limited having received overwhelming support for this
transaction from shareholders. IMC Consulting is a leading
project management and consultancy business working primarily
with Governments and regional authorities on large scale, long
term aid-funded, social and economic regeneration projects
designed to build capacity in countries in transition. IMC Europe
further strengthens WYG’s existing environmental and engineering
business streams in the UK particularly in the important urban
regeneration, environmental and infrastructure markets. The
acquisition of IMC Consulting in particular marked a significant step
forward in the evolutionary development of WYG and represents
a step change in the size, skills balance, geographical coverage,
critical mass and earnings potential of WYG. IMC Consulting
provides WYG with an international management services business
stream which is profitable and growing. It is entirely complementary
to WYG’s existing skill sets and geographic markets.
The added value from the acquisition of IMC Consulting is the
provision of a strong, established platform from which WYG can
develop a growing market for the Group’s traditional skills in
appropriate international locations given the direct link between
social-economic regeneration, infrastructure regeneration and
environmental regeneration. It is therefore extremely encouraging
that in the three months following acquisition IMC Consulting has
secured new contracts with a net value of £10.5m, including a
strategically important £8.8m European Commission (EC) project
to manage the implementation of a local economic development
programme in KwaZuluNatal, South Africa. This is a major
success, as significant in scale and profile as anything previously
secured by the Group. Other EC aid-funded projects have also
been won in that period in Poland, the Balkans and the CIS. 
Hawthorne Kamm – Southampton
In June 2004 WYG acquired Hawthorne Kamm, a privately
owned Town Planning Consultancy based in Droxford in
Hampshire. Hawthorne Kamm provides clients in Central and
Southern England with important front-end advocacy skills 
in the Planning arena.
The added value from the acquisition is that it focuses
predominantly on the wider residential market comprising national
house builders and residential developers from which cross-selling
opportunities can be pursued for other complementary skill sets
within WYG. In addition, WYG Planning can now provide
nationwide Town Planning services to those clients in the future.
DWP – Leicester and Birmingham
In June 2004 WYG acquired DWP Consulting Limited,
a mechanical and electrical consultancy services business based
in Leicester. This acquisition provides WYG with a team of
professionals whose specialist skills and experience add value
by significantly strengthening the Group’s technical capacity in
the building services field in the Midlands region. Added value
is also achieved from the broadening of the client base and the
provision of high level management support to lead WYG’s
ambitious expansion plans in the Birmingham area.
ORGANIC DEVELOPMENT
Acquisitive growth is, of course, only one part of the toolkit used
by WYG to deliver sustainable corporate development. Of even
more importance in a people business is the underlying rate
of organic growth which is a better measure of the ability of a
business to secure increased market share, attract more high
quality staff, nurture specialist skills and open up new markets.
It is therefore encouraging to note that over half of WYG’s 22%
per annum average rate of growth over the last seven years to
June 2004 has been organic rather than acquisitive with organic
growth over the last year running at 11%. 
All of the corporate development that has taken place during
the course of the last year has significantly changed the shape
of WYG as it moves into the new financial year. The corporate
philosophy outlined in the Chairman’s Statement has informed
and guided both acquisition activity and organic development
during the course of the year with particular reference to the
following characteristics:
■ Front end skills in the planning stage of the asset life cycle
have been significantly enhanced and these now comprise
40% of WYG’s overall business. All of these front end skills
are key to the client’s decision making processes and often
attract higher margins. They are also influential in facilitating
subsequent appointments associated with the implementation
and operational stages of the life cycle.
The breakdown of the business at the beginning of the
new financial year is therefore 40% planning stage, 45%
implementation stage and 15% operational stage with an
ongoing strategy to balance the business around all three
stages of the life cycle;
■ Technical design services have almost been balanced by the
more strategically important management services with the
latter now comprising 37% of the overall Group turnover
compared to the 43% of the former. It is only through
a complementary balance of management services and
technical services that real strategic engagement with clients
can be achieved at boardroom level and therefore further
developments in this skill area are anticipated in the future;
■ Further sector diversification has been achieved through
penetration of the important residential market with major
national house builders and residential developers being
added to WYG’s key client list; and
REVIEW OF THE YEAR WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 8
ORGANIC DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED)
■ A significant but relatively low risk international dimension
has been added to WYG’s portfolio which provides the
ideal platform for taking a broader range of WYG services
to selected overseas locations within a controlled, managed
and established business framework.
SECTOR ANALYSIS
The strength of the WYG business lies in the fact that the
diversity of sectors in which it has a strong presence and
an established reputation allows it to effectively ride the
ebb and flow of investment patterns within any one sector,
as a consequence of the majority of skills within the Group
transferable between individual sectors. The important factor is
to be meaningfully active in each of the key sectors, retain and
nurture the relationships within those sectors, particularly when
they are in temporary difficulty and be fleet of foot when either
pressure or opportunity arises with regard to resource allocation,
marketing effort or service delivery structures.
This philosophy has served WYG well in the past and, in particular,
allowed the Group to grow consistently, irrespective of the
predominance of either public sector or private sector investment.
In that regard in the year 2000 before the more recent spending
commitment to health, education and transportation, 70% of
Group turnover was from the private sector. Between 2000 and
2003 it remained more or less constant in quantum terms whilst
the public sector element grew significantly to peak at 61% in 2003
with only 39% emanating from the private sector. During that time
private sector clients continued to be nurtured and developed and
in 2004 the first signs of real recovery in private sector markets has
become apparent with the public/private split adjusting back to a
58%:42% split in the year.
Private sector turnover has increased in the year by an average of
26%, or £7.9m in quantum terms, compared to the overall Group
top line growth rate of 17%. This has been spread consistently
over most of the key private sector markets as follows:
Industry Up 25%
Commercial, Leisure and Residential Development Up 28%
Retail Up 17%
Financial Services Up 17%
Public sector turnover has also increased in the year by 12%,
or £5.4m in quantum terms, following three consecutive years
of taking a consistently increasing share of overall Group turnover.
However the more detailed breakdown below confirms that
there is a much more variable pattern to the spread of this
increase across the public sector markets than is the case with
the private sector split above:
Health and Education Up 42%
Law and Order Up 51%
Transportation and Infrastructure Up 9%
Defence Down 30%
The 30% reduction in defence turnover, or £2.3m in quantum
terms, is a reflection of the defence infrastructure market generally
which has seen the last year being used primarily to set up and
establish the five major regional prime contracts, without any of
these prime contracts actually reaching a fully productive, steady
state condition. In addition spending priorities within those regional
prime contracts have come under review to ensure that they
fully align with the changed operational requirements and priorities
recently announced by the Secretary of State. With the government’s
plans now published and the prime contracts established WYG
expects increased business in this sector in the new financial year.
Financial year 2004 has clearly been a successful year for WYG
across a broad range of sectors and skill groups and this is best
illustrated by reference to some of the more significant project
successes for the Group during that period within each of the
key sectors referred to above.
DEFENCE
■ SOUTH WEST REGIONAL PRIME CONTRACT
WYG is the principal professional advisor providing a range
of multi-disciplinary design services to the Debut consortia
led by Bovis/Babcock for the Tri-Services Estate Prime
Contract in South West England, with an anticipated capital
works value in excess of £500m over a seven year term.
■ QINETIQ LONG TERM FRAMEWORK CONTRACT
WYG is one of only three consultants to partner QinetiQ
on its Long Term Partnering Arrangement with Defence
Estates for the MoD Range sites. This commission will run
for five years.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
CONTINUED TURNOVER BY SECTOR 2004
DEFENCE 6%
HEALTH & 
EDUCATION 17%
LAW & ORDER 9%
TRANSPORTATION &
INFRASTRUCTURE 25%
POWER & 
UTILITIES 7%
INDUSTRY 10%
COMMERCIAL, LEISURE &
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT 12%
RETAIL 8%
FINANCIAL SERVICES 2%
OTHERS 4% WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 9
SUMMARY OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
■ Seven strategic acquisitions adding £39m to proforma turnover
■ Consistently strong organic growth at 11% per annum
■ Significantly active in both the public and private sectors
■ Platform for international growth established
■ 57% of turnover from long term framework contracts
CLIENT
ASSETS
Traffic & 
Transportation
Environmental
Services
Geotechnical
Engineering
Project 
Management
Multi-Discipline 
Design
Construction
Management
Sustainablility
Management
Management
Systems
Health 
& Safety
Property
Management
Facilities
Consultancy
Town 
Planning
Social & Economic
Regeneration
Cost Management
Cost 
Management
Building
Surveying
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
ASSET LIFE CYCLE
WYG provides clients with a complementary range of skills appropriate to
the planning, implementation and operation stages of the life cycle of their
key wealth producing assets. WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 10
HEALTH
■ BIRMINGHAM NEW HOSPITALS PFI PROJECT
WYG has been appointed to provide civil, structural and
environmental engineering services to a preferred-bidder
joint venture between Balfour Beatty, AWG and Haden
Young on a six year, £521m PFI project. Financial closure
of the main contract is anticipated in March 2005. 
■ NHS LIFT SCHEMES
WYG is providing a full range of consultancy services on a
number of NHS LIFT schemes including North Tyneside,
Oldham, St Helens and Knowsley. Each of these comprises
typically 20 to 30 individual primary health care projects with
a combined capital value of up to £100m per region.
EDUCATION
■ LEEDS PRIMARY SCHOOLS
QED are the special purpose vehicle for the construction
of ten primary schools in Leeds at a value of approximately
£30m with WYG providing consultancy services to Wates
Construction who will be undertaking the construction work
on behalf of QED. Financial close occurred in April 2004
with a construction period of only one year commencing
in summer 2004.
■ UNIVERSITY FRAMEWORK CONTRACTS
WYG has been awarded a series of long term framework
engineering consultancy contracts for Leeds, Manchester,
Newcastle and Liverpool Universities as well as a number
of individual high-reliability laboratory projects at other
universities throughout the UK.
LAW AND ORDER
■ HOME OFFICE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 
FRAMEWORK CONTRACT
WYG has been appointed by the Home Office on an
initial four year commission to undertake total professional
property services in the management of the entire Home
Office non-custodial property portfolio throughout the
UK. The commission, amongst other things, requires the
deployment of full-time helpdesk facilities that are now
at the disposal of other clients.
WYG is responsible for the delivery of all services and
draws upon the entire skill base and national coverage
of the business in support of the Home Office’s estate
management objectives. 
■ DCA UNIFIED COURTS PROPERTY MANAGEMENT – 
WALES AND CHESHIRE
WYG has been appointed to provide professional property
management for 100 Crown, County and Magistrates Courts
and Tribunal Buildings throughout the Wales and Chester
circuit for the next five years. WYG is also providing
technical support to DTZ on the equivalent contracts
covering the North West and North East of England.
URBAN REGENERATION
■ NWDA – NEWLANDS
WYG Environmental (WYGE) has been appointed
Framework Panel Consultant to the Forestry Commission,
with partial funding by the North West Development Agency
on a project to regenerate community woodlands and
develop appropriate open-air leisure facilities on previously
brownfield land, initially in the North West of England but
with a view to extending the scheme to other regions of the
UK in due course. The full range of WYGE’s in-house specialist
skills will be utilised throughout the course of this project.
■ LONDON DEVELOPMENT AGENCY FRAMEWORK CONTRACT
WYG has secured a multi-skilled long term framework
contract with the London Development Agency which, inter
alia, involves the major assemblage of sites in Stratford, East
London preparatory to the regeneration of infrastructure
and accommodation in the area. This work will be critical to,
but not dependent upon, the success of the London 2012
Olympics bid. 
HIGHWAYS AND TRAFFIC
■ M1 JUNCTION 19
As Employer’s Agent, WYG will carry out preliminary design,
undertake a Stage 3 Environmental Assessment, prepare the
Statutory Orders and manage the Early Contractor Involvement
tender procedure to construct a new three-level, free-flow
traffic interchange estimated at £100m capital investment. 
■ A45/A46 TOLLBAR END
The Highways Agency has appointed WYG as Employer’s
Agent on a £57m project to improve this junction between
three major motorways in a highly urban area.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
CONTINUED PROFORMA TURNOVER BY SKILL
DESIGN SERVICES 43%
MANAGEMENT 
SERVICES 37%
ENVIRONMENTAL 16%
TOWN PLANNING 4% WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 11
THE BUILT 
ENVIRONMENT
3
4
2
1
1. The Devonshire Building at Newcastle University won the first
RICS North East Renaissance Award for Building of the Year.
WYG provided mechanical and electrical services for this low
environmental impact building. 
2. Wolfson Molecular Imaging Centre, Christie Hospital,
Manchester. A high technology hospital laboratory which was
awarded a Structural Heritage Commendation by the Institute
of Structural Engineers.
3. The Light, Leeds. A mixed retail development was awarded a
Structural Heritage Commendation by the Institute of Structural
Engineers and a Civic Trust Award for its contribution to
the community. 
4. National Distribution Centre for Lever Fabergé, Doncaster.
As lead consultant, WYG provided environmental, civil,
mechanical and electrical services on this project.
REVIEW OF THE YEAR WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 12
RAIL
■ LONDON MAJOR STATIONS
WYG Rail has been appointed by Network Rail to prepare
a feasibility study and outline design for a new platform on
the east side of Kings Cross Station including all associated
trackwork, signalling and electrification alterations. In addition,
the rail team has been instructed to undertake a detailed
examination and assessment of London Victoria Station roof.
■ EAST COAST MAIN LINE
WYG Rail is currently working with Network Rail to successfully
produce Overhead Line Allocation Designs for failing anchor tie
foundations at 14 locations on the East Coast Main Line.
INDUSTRY
■ RUTHERFORD APPLETON LABORATORY – ISIS SECOND
TARGET STATION
WYG has been appointed Lead Consultant on this important
groundbreaking research facility project at a total project
value of £100m, an estimated £16m of which will constitute
the construction works capital value.
When completed, the facility will be used by scientists from
around the world to investigate materials at the atomic level,
for research in physics, earth sciences, chemistry, materials
science, engineering, biology and archaeology.
■ TILBURY DOCKS REDEVELOPMENT
Working with Dew Construction and Forth Ports through
the Port of Tilbury, WYG will act as Lead Consultant on
the £31m ‘Project Enterprise’ in the creation of a southern
distribution centre for Stora Enso for the more efficient
shipment of paper to the national daily newspapers market.
The terminal will incorporate fully automated warehousing and a
rail cross-dock facility to enable multi-modal national distribution.
COMMERCIAL, LEISURE AND RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT
■ KINGSWAY BUSINESS PARK, ROCHDALE
WYG will act as Lead Designer and Planning Supervisor to
Wilson Bowden Developments Ltd as agent for the North
West Development Agency on this estimated £300m,
15 year, mixed use development of a 170 hectare site
adjacent to Junction 21 of the M62.
■ TOTTENHAM HOUSE GOLF RESORT HOTEL
WYG Planning has been appointed Agent on this restoration
and conversion development of listed accommodation and
stables to create a 200-suite hotel and an 18 hole golf course.
RETAIL
■ TESCO CLAPHAM SOUTH LONDON
WYG has been appointed as a Panel Consultant on Tesco’s
‘Centre of Excellence’ programme, to provide engineering
design services on this £23m project comprising the
construction of 104 flats over a new Tesco store and
basement car parking. The project will require the retention
of facades on two elevations immediately adjacent to
London Underground’s Northern line.
■ ST STEPHENS REDEVELOPMENT – HULL
WYG has been appointed to provide the full range of
engineering and environmental consultancy services on this
£80m redevelopment of St Stephens, Kingston-upon-Hull, to
create a covered street retail environment, leisure, residential
and performing arts/theatre complex and the refurbishment
of the Grade II listed Paragon railway station to form an
integrated transport interchange.
LONG TERM FRAMEWORK CONTRACTS
Long term framework contracts clearly represent an increasingly
important part of WYG’s overall portfolio. They generate a
continuous, substantial and reliable flow of work over a long
period of time without the need to re-tender, or re-negotiate,
individual contracts for each new project. They therefore provide
long term visibility of future earnings, reduce bidding and marketing
costs, and facilitate the establishment of long term collaborative
relationships with both the client and the supply chain. They
also allow technical resources to be more effectively planned
and deployed and, as a consequence, efficiency is gradually increased
particularly when they comprise a large number of smaller individual
projects which are all similar in nature. Framework contracts
accounted for 57% of WYG’s turnover in 2004.
Framework contracts now represent over 53% of WYG’s total
order book which equates to £106m in quantum terms. This
is an increase of 34% on the previous year and is indicative of
the scale of WYG’s success in securing such contracts over the
last 12 months. This is particularly so in the case of property 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
CONTINUED PROFORMA TURNOVER BY LIFE CYCLE SECTOR 
PLANNING 40%
IMPLEMENTING 45%
OPERATING 15% WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 13
1. WYG is providing a comprehensive range of engineering
and environmental services in the field of renewable energy,
including impact assessments through to the construction
and operation of wind farm facilities.
2. Environmental issues were at the forefront of the A43
Towcester-M40 highways project, including extensive
ecological mitigation of wildlife requirements.
3. WYG completed an ecological management plan for sections
of the Royal Canal and River Shannon in Ireland. The project
received an award from the Irish Heritage Council.
4. WYG carried out a vegetation survey and full ecological
appraisal for a potential development site at Chatterley Whitfield.
THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT
3
2
1
4
REVIEW OF THE YEAR WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 14
LONG TERM FRAMEWORK CONTRACTS (CONTINUED)
management contracts for national public sector clients with large
estates portfolios, such as the Home Office, the Department
of Constitutional Affairs and the Scottish Executive, where EC
procurement processes have enabled WYG to quickly develop
a strong and profitable property management business stream
organically. Further progress is anticipated in 2005.
There is also an increasing trend amongst clients to set up these
framework contracts to be effective over longer periods of time.
In that regard, WYG has ten such contracts which extend
beyond 2010, eight of which have been secured in the last year.
In total WYG has in excess of 180 active framework contracts
of which 28 will generate future income of at least £1m each
over their duration including those referred to above that
extend beyond 2010.
ORDER BOOK
WYG’s net order book has increased in the year by 47% to a
total of £200m comprising £106m from framework contracts
and £94m from individual projects. Orders of £91m already
secured for 2005 are equivalent to approximately 81% of the
2004 proforma turnover. This is an extremely strong position
to be in at the beginning of the year given that WYG’s average
monthly net order intake for the 12 months ending 30 June 2004
was £7.5m excluding any contribution from the acquisitions
announced in June 2004.
BUSINESS EXCELLENCE
Underpinning WYG’s strong order book is a commitment to
excellence and quality in all aspects of business activity which,
in turn, is the bedrock of the Group’s reputation with staff, clients
and other professionals in all key market areas. That commitment
to excellence has been reflected in 2004 by a determination to
roll out ‘Investors In People’ in all offices during the course of
the calendar year and it is pleasing to report that 15 of WYG’s
19 offices in the UK and Ireland achieved that standard by
September 2004.
Also of vital importance to both staff development and corporate
development is collective ownership of WYG’s vision for the
future, the values that should underpin our behaviour both within
the business and externally, the key strategies and plans that will
guide our actions and an acceptance of the critical success factors
that we need to constantly measure to ensure delivery of those
plans and, ultimately, the Group’s vision for the future. All of this
has been brought together during the course of the year in the
WYG Business Excellence Model with all staff being involved at
business unit and office level in contributing to its development
and implementation. The WYG Business Excellence Model will
therefore be the glue that binds us together on the journey to
become leaders in the built, natural and social environment.
THE FUTURE
WYG is extremely proud of the consistent growth and business
re-engineering that has been achieved as the Group has evolved
over the last seven years; however that journey has only really
just begun. There is much more to do, much more that can be
achieved, new markets to be developed and others that have
yet to reach full maturity.
The opportunities for the Group as it begins a new financial year
are therefore immense with its strong foothold in both the public
and private sector markets, the platform it has established for
future international growth and the wider appeal it now has
to clients as a consequence of the gradual development of
complementary professional skills all around the asset life cycle.
WYG therefore begins the new year with confidence; confidence
that market conditions are favourable to sustain and feed the
Group’s ambitious corporate development plans; confidence that
the business model that has delivered consistent growth in the
past can continue to do so in the future; and confidence that
the professionalism, commitment and enthusiasm of a dedicated
workforce will reach its full potential as WYG strives to attain its
vision to be leaders in the built, natural and social environment.
John Purvis, Chief Executive
28 September 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
CONTINUED PROFORMA TURNOVER BY GEOGRAPHY 
UNITED KINGDOM 69%
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND 7%
INTERNATIONAL 24% WHITE YOUNG GREEN PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 15
1. Managing a healthcare education programme to assist in the
alleviation of HIV/AIDS in Russia.
2. Providing corporate restructuring in the water resources
industry in Romania.
3. Managing a labour redeployment and vocational training
programme in Poland.
4. Providing small and medium enterprise (“SME”) support
to businesses across eastern and central Europe.
THE SOCIAL
ENVIRONMENT
3
4
2
1
REVIEW OF THE YEAR
