 – 6 –
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Summary
The year under review has been one of signiﬁcant progress.  We have achieved strong ﬁnancial results, with 
increase in turnover and proﬁt, working within a competitive commercial environment.  We have successfully 
implemented a restructuring programme affecting all disciplines and product types, which have realised beneﬁts 
during this period and which will continue to support us in the new ﬁnancial year.
We have won a number of new and high proﬁle contracts which will provide a base loading for our new 64 
page press at Wyndeham Heron, our ﬂagship web offset plant, an investment that keeps us at the forefront of 
technological advances in the print arena.
Looking forward, although margin pressure will remain an issue, we are conﬁdent that our new initiatives planned 
for implementation in the current ﬁnancial year will further enhance our stated strategies to improve efﬁciency 
and reduce costs.
Group Strategy
Our strategy remains to serve a broad range of print markets through a diverse product offering, providing our 
customers with a ‘one stop shop’ for all of their print requirements.
Internally, we continue to promote maximum co-operation and ﬂexibility between all our operations and we are 
structuring the Group management and resources in order to achieve this objective.
We continue to pursue cost and efﬁciency improvements by leveraging the Group resources and by adoption of 
‘World Class’ manufacturing measures.
In addition we will continue to invest in technologically advanced equipment and infrastructure to offer our clients 
competitive advantage and to support Wyndeham’s continued growth.
Group Integration and Reorganisation 
Sales and Marketing
Following the creation of a centralised Group sales team in early 2004 our sales staff are now able to offer the 
whole range of Group options to our customers.  We have already started to realise the beneﬁts, with contract 
wins that have been dependant on this co-ordinated offering and that span a number of Wyndeham sites.  The 
contract awarded to us in December 2004 from the National Magazine Company where we provide both pre-press 
and print services endorses the value of an integrated sales force.
This has been enhanced by the formation of Wyndeham Bespoke, our new Print Management business enabling our 
sales team to offer a range of in house and outsourced solutions.  Print management is a rapidly growing business 
and we are encouraged that Wyndeham Bespoke has already gained an important foothold in the market.
Costs and Efﬁciency
Following the assessment and subsequent centralisation of our purchasing function during the last year, we have 
seen both ﬁnancial beneﬁts and improved service levels.
In addition we continue to work on a number of initiatives to improve efﬁciency and lower operating cost. These 
include: the introduction of ‘Lean Manufacturing’ techniques in a number of Group companies, the closure of 
manufacturing operations at Wyndeham Keyne Print, work previously produced at this site is being successfully 
produced in other Group locations, and a project to examine logistic costs at our major sites.
In order to achieve these business improvement initiatives, we have made a number of key management changes, 
including a new managing director at our continuous stationery business, Wyndeham Print Direct, and the 
appointment of two divisional ﬁnance directors reporting directly to the Group Financial Director.
However, despite the continual pressure on selling prices, we are subject to certain increases in costs.   This year, 
we have incurred extra cost as a result of electricity and gas price increases and these costs which are forecast to 
increase signiﬁcantly again on renewal of contracts. In the year ended 31 March 2005 we suffered a 30% increase 
and we are anticipating a further 45% increase in the current ﬁnancial year. We are active in monitoring and 
assessing cost increases with a view to minimising their impact without affecting the quality of our products. – 7 –
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Capital Investment
As expected, capital investment has remained at a relatively low level this year at £5.2m (2004: £4.4m).
At our half year results we announced the purchase of a new 64 page press for the Heron site at a cost of £7m. 
This is currently being installed and will be operational by September 2005 and will result in capital expenditure of 
approx £10m in total during the current ﬁnancial year.
In addition the Group has also invested in additional improvements to facilitate improved use of resources and 
common working methods across all sites in two areas; pre-press workﬂows and a Group wide production planning 
system. These investments will cost approximately £0.5 million to be spread over 3 years.
Market Conditions
During the year, market conditions have remained challenging.  Advertising levels remained at similar levels to 
the previous year and as a result there has been little change in pagination. Advertising levels in the current year 
are difﬁcult to predict but if the consumer slow down continues it is likely to have an impact. However industry 
statistics show that overall, copy sales have increased and we have seen an increase in new launches in the weekly 
sector, a trend which looks set to continue in the coming year. In the commercial print markets, demand has 
remained stable during the year.  Much commercial print is aimed at the consumer market and we are therefore 
closely monitoring the developments in consumer spending and the response from the business community. 
Magazine
We continue to print a wide range of both consumer and business to business titles, providing a good mix of work 
for all our sites.   
We have won a number of new contracts.  In January we were pleased to announce the signing of a new 5-year 
contract with Haymarket Publishing worth approximately £50m over the contract term of 5 years.  We have also 
won new business with Dennis Publishing and National Magazine Company totalling approximately £4 million per 
annum.
These contracts were targeted in order to provide the right balance of work to utilise the additional capacity which 
will be available following the installation of the 64 page press at Wyndeham Heron. The overall capacity in the 
sector remains an issue and we will remove old equipment as planned to keep supply in line with demand as far 
as possible.
Commercial
Our initiatives put in place to capitalise on the opportunities in this market have been encouraging.  
The centralised sales team, working in tandem with our new Wyndeham Bespoke business have brought a number 
of new opportunities particularly in the ﬁnancial sector.  
We also continue with our work for a number of blue chip clients including: General Motors, Tesco and Thomas 
Cook Holidays. 
Margin pressure remains high in this sector.  We have consolidated capacity with the closure of manufacturing 
operations at Wyndeham Keyne Print and alongside new business opportunities, we continue to look at ways to 
improve efﬁciencies.
Financial Review
Turnover for the year increased by 14% to £141.3m (2004: £123.6m) and this generated operating proﬁt, before 
exceptional costs relating to restructuring (totalling £0.6m) and goodwill amortisation (totalling £1.2m) of £9.5m 
(2004: £6.6m). 
There is a slight reduction in interest payable to £2.0m (2004: £2.3m), due to a reduction in net debt. Proﬁt before 
tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was £7.5m (2004: £4.4m). 
Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 9.8p (2004: 6.9p) reﬂecting a 42% 
increase.
(continued) – 8 –
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
(continued)
Outlook
Despite the fact that the challenging trading conditions look set to remain, we believe that Wyndeham, with 
our emphasis on investment in improved technology and with our strategy to drive internal improvements on all 
fronts, will continue to show progress this year and onwards.
Paul Utting
Chief Executive 
15 June 2005
