 08
Xaar plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chairman’s statement
Arie Rosenfeld
Chairman
Introduction
I am delighted to report another excellent year for Xaar. Our technology 
and products continued their rapid advance, resulting in strong growth 
in sales and proﬁ tability. 
Results and ﬁ nance
Group revenues increased by 23% in the year to £42.8m (2004: £34.8m). 
Product sales were £39.9m (2004: £33.1m), royalty revenues £1.3m 
(2004 £1.1m) and development fees £1.6m (2004: £0.6m). Included in 
development fees are integration and early stage business development 
revenues. Sales increased across the whole range of printheads 
demonstrating the strength and depth of the product portfolio which 
the group continues to develop. 
Proﬁ t for the year also grew strongly and proﬁ t before tax and exchange 
movements on inter-company loans was £11.0m (2004: £6.5m), an 
increase of 69% over the prior year. Earnings per share, stated before 
the exchange movement on inter-company loans, increased by 62% to 
12.8p (2004: 7.9p).
Cash balances at the end of the year were £14.4m, a reduction of 
£0.9m during the year reﬂ ecting investment of the group’s cash 
resources in the next phase of our development through increased 
capital expenditure, working capital and trade investments. We also 
funded the purchase of the company’s own shares for its Employee 
Share Ownership Plan (ESOP). The ESOP forms a key part of our 
remuneration strategy for retaining the highly skilled people we have 
within the group. 
Dividend
The board is recommending payment of an annual dividend for the year 
of 1.5p, an increase of 50% on the 1.0p dividend paid in 2004. 
Trends
Turning to the wider print market, inkjet continues its penetration of 
traditional printing markets. In a recent press release, Agfa reiterated 
its intention to become a major player in the industrial inkjet market 
and during the year several other large global imaging companies 
entered the market or signiﬁ cantly expanded their inkjet activities;  09
Xaar plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chairman’s statement
Hewlett Packard acquired Scitex Vision (a major Xaar customer) and 
also announced a new strategic partnership with Seiko Instruments 
(a Xaar licensee); Fuji Photo Film acquired Sericol Inks and Avecia Inks, 
both Xaar ink partners, and Dainippon Screen purchased Inca Digital 
Printers in Cambridge. 
The interest shown by such global businesses can only enhance the 
prospects for inkjet printing and accelerate its acceptance as a primary 
printing process. In addition, we continue to see progress in the 
development of inkjet as an industrial manufacturing process in non-print 
related industries such as packaging, electronics, three dimensional 
modelling and biotechnology. We now have the products that enable us 
to address the requirements of these markets and we continue to build 
strategic partnerships with the main players in these sectors.
In the immediate future, sales of the OmniDot to Agfa are expected 
to build more slowly than originally planned due to a slower roll-out 
by Agfa of its wide-format products which use the printhead. This is 
to allow Agfa to focus on the introduction of its radical digital press, 
the M Press, which is also built around the OmniDot. Xaar’s margin 
on sales to Agfa is signiﬁ cantly lower than that on other printhead 
sales, reﬂ ecting Agfa’s co-funding of the OmniDot’s development and 
its direct investment in Xaar’s Swedish manufacturing facility. The lost 
margin on any shortfall in sales to Agfa in 2006 is, therefore, not material and 
will be covered by incremental sales to other customers. 
Investment in capacity expansion
During the year the board has reviewed the longer term capacity 
requirements of the company given the increasing momentum building 
across all inkjet markets, as well as our own future product and market 
development plans. The review concluded that the group’s present 
manufacturing plant, in Järfälla, Sweden, is likely to become fully utilised 
over the next two years and will be unable to meet future demand. 
After considering a number of options the board has decided to 
establish a second manufacturing plant in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, 
close to the group’s Cambridge headquarters. The second plant 
should begin operations by the end of 2006 and will initially produce 
our Platform 3 HSS product. This expansion will require an investment 
of up to £10.0m, including the additional working capital required to 
support the incremental sales these new products will generate. 
Board changes
In October 2005, we were pleased to welcome Robert Eckelmann, 49, 
to the board as an independent, non-executive director. Mr Eckelmann 
had spent a large part of his career at Intel Corporation where he ran 
Intel’s European operations and started up its business in the major 
Asian markets. He replaced Michael Geary who stood down at the 
2005 Annual General Meeting following nine years of valued service. 
Queen’s Award for Enterprise
The company was honoured during the year to be the recipient of the 
Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the Innovation category. The award is 
a ﬁ tting tribute to the inventiveness and determination of our staff both 
past and present. 
Outlook
We see the use of inkjet technology growing strongly in both printing 
and industrial markets and, as a market leader, intend to remain at the 
forefront of that growth. 
Our sales of established products continue to grow and our new 
products launched in 2006 will add growth in the medium term. For the 
longer term we have further new products due for commercial launch 
in 2007, together with an expanding range of applications ready to 
adopt them. 
The Board looks forward to another year of positive results in 2006.
Arie Rosenfeld 
Chairman 
13 March 2006
“ …the use of inkjet technology is 
growing strongly in both digital printing 
and industrial markets…we intend to 
remain at the forefront of that growth.”
