 4 5 www.wynnstay.co.uk Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Our business at a glance
The	Group	has	two	complementary	divisions,	Agriculture	and	Specialist	Retail	with	an	interest	in	a	number	of	Joint	Ventures	
and	an	Associate	Company.	
The agriculture division covers the manufacturing and supply of a comprehensive range of agricultural inputs to customers 
throughout Wales, the West Midlands, Lancashire and Yorkshire.
Our Retail Division covers the supply of specialist agricultural and retail products to customers throughout 
Wales and the Midlands.
Agriculture
Specialist Retail
Retail
FEED	DIVISION	
The Feed	Division, which operates two compound feed mills and one blending plant, offers a full range 
of animal nutrition products to the agricultural market. The mills’ location allows for logistically efficient 
delivery of our products throughout our trading area, third party mills are also used to satisfy additional 
seasonal and geographic requirements. Both mills are multispecies allowing the business to provide a 
broad range of products to service the requirements of ruminant and monogastric animals. 
	
The Glasson	Group, which operates from Glasson Dock near Lancaster, is traditionally a 
raw materials trader and fertiliser blender. Glasson’s activities now include the packaging 
of added value products supplied to specialist animal feed retailers. The business is also 
involved in a joint venture, FertLink, which is based at Birkenhead, near Liverpool.
WYNNSTAY	STORES	
The rural retail outlets are well established and provide a comprehensive range of products for farmers 
and rural dwellers. The stores, which now number 28 operating in North and Mid Wales and the West 
Midlands, supply a wide range of specialist products to farmers, smallholders and pet owners. Our 
dedicated team are happy to help customers with technical advice on all aspects of products on offer. Our 
increased diversity complements our core agricultural business, acting as an important route to market 
for pharmaceutical companies with whom the Group works with closely to provide specialist professional 
advice to livestock farmers. 
ARABLE	DIVISION	
The Arable	Division supplies a wide range of products to arable and grassland farmers throughout the 
trading area. The Group is recognised as a significant supplier of fertiliser, acting as a principle supplier 
of GrowHow products together with our own Top Crop brand of fertiliser.  Seed is processed in Shropshire 
at the arable base as well as at Woodheads Seeds in Yorkshire. Agrochemicals are supplied to complete 
the range of products.
JUST	FOR	PETS	
Just for Pets currently has 19 specialist pet product stores operating on busy retail sites throughout the 
West Midlands, extending east to Cambridge and south to Bristol. All stores offer a wide range of pet related 
products and are recognised as convenient one stop shops for all pet owners.  Our staff have considerable 
experience within the pet sector and a significant proportion are qualified to offer specialist advice to pet 
owners. Two stores have an easipetcare concession offering veterinary advice and services to customers; 
this is further complimented by vaccination clinics in 3 of our other stores. In October 2011 the distribution 
centre was re-located to Hartlebury, Worcestershire to allow further expansion of specialist pet outlets.
YOUNGS	ANIMAL	FEEDS	
Youngs Animal Feeds manufactures equine and small animal feeds from its production facility at Standon in 
Staffordshire. It also acts as a distributor of products to the equine market through wholesalers and retailers 
in the West of the UK.
GrainLink, the Groups in-house grain marketing company, provides farmers with an 
independent professional marketing service backed by the financial security of the 
Wynnstay Group. The Company has access to major markets for specialist milling and 
malting grain as well as feed into mills throughout our trading area.
Woodheads	Seeds operates a seed processing plant, near Selby in Yorkshire, supplying a 
full range of cereal and herbage seeds to farmers and wholesale customers. The Company 
also trades grain and supplies fertiliser to farmers in its trading area.
Agriculture
Wynnstay Stores
Just for Pets Stores
Joint Ventures and Associate Company
Youngs Animal Feeds
Locations
Astley Llansantffraid
Rhosfawr
Carmarthen
Hartlebury
Glasson
Selby 6 7 www.wynnstay.co.uk Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
OVERVIEW
I am very pleased to report that Wynnstay continues to perform strongly and 
results for the year to 31 October 2011 set a new high for the Group against 
the backdrop of a volatile market. Revenues for the twelve months increased 
by 42% to £346.18m and Group pre-tax profit rose by 17% to £6.94m. The 
increase reflects the benefit of recent acquisitions, inflation, especially on 
feed and fertiliser prices, which has been a key feature over the year as well 
as organic growth.  
The broad business base of the Group continues to be an important factor in 
delivering overall growth and looking across Wynnstay’s range of activities, 
our raw materials trading, arable supplies and specialist retailing activities 
all delivered especially good results. 
The acquisition in May 2011 of Wrekin Grain Ltd, a leading independent grain 
marketing and agricultural inputs supplier based in Shropshire, has further 
strengthened our presence in the arable sector. It significantly increases 
Wynnstay’s grain marketing volumes and extends the Group’s geographic 
trading area and farming customer base.  We have now completed its 
integration with our existing grain trading activity and have rebranded and 
launched the combined businesses as “GrainLink Ltd”, giving us a national 
presence in grain marketing.
As well as expanding our agricultural supplies activities, we continued 
with the steady expansion of our specialist retailing division.  This division 
saw very good like-for-like growth from Wynnstay Stores, helped by our 
refurbishment programme. Mainly targeting the farming community, 
although we also attract custom from country dwellers in general, these 
stores typically supply non-discretionary products and therefore sales have 
remained buoyant.  We continued with the roll-out of our Just for Pets pet 
products chain, expanding by another three stores in the year. Results from 
all our newer stores are encouraging and the total number of Just for Pets 
stores now stands at 19. We plan to open three further new stores in 2012. 
FINANCIAL	RESULTS
The year to 31 October 2011 saw total revenues increase by 42% to £346.18m 
(2010: £243.74m). The Group’s agricultural supplies activities contributed 
revenues of £274.57m (2010: £178.02m) and specialist retailing contributed 
£71.32m (2010: £65.47m) to this result. The Group’s pre-tax profit was 
£6.94m (2010: £5.95m), an increase of 17% on last year.  The operating 
profit contribution from agricultural supplies activities including joint 
venture results was £3.82m (2010: £3.00m) and specialist retailing activities 
contributed £3.70m (2010: £3.46m). Other activities showed a small loss of 
£0.19m (2010: loss of £0.13m) and net finance charges amounted to £0.39m 
(2010: £0.38m). After a Group taxation charge of £1.94m (2010: £1.71m), 
net earnings were 18% higher than last year at £5.00m (2010: £4.23m). This 
equates to 30.23p per share (2010: 27.48p) representing an increase of 10% 
over the preceding year.
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong, with net assets at 31 October 
2011 amounting to £51.70m (2010: £47.37m) or approximately £3.12 
per share (2010: £3.08). Gearing remains low, despite funding the Wrekin 
acquisition through additional debt, and stands at 13% (2010: 7%) at the 
year end, based on a net debt position of £6.67m (2010: £3.47m). Return on 
net assets increased to 14.2% (2010: 13.5%).
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to propose the payment of a final dividend of 5.20p 
per share, which together with the interim dividend of 2.60p per share, 
paid on 31 October 2011, takes the total dividend for the year to 7.80p, 
an increase of 10% on last year (2010: 7.10p). The final dividend will be 
paid on 30 April 2012 to shareholders on the register on 30 March 2012. 
A scrip dividend alternative will continue to be available as in previous 
years.  The last date for election for the scrip dividend will be 16 April 2012. 
THE	BOARD
At the Group’s AGM, in March 2011, Non-executive Director Edwin Hughes 
stepped down from the Board, having reached the Company’s agreed 
retirement age. Edwin has had a long and successful tenure with the Group, 
having joined the Board in 1989 when our business merged with the Vale of 
Clwyd Farmers.  He has always been very supportive of our growth strategy 
and has made a very significant contribution to the Group over the years, 
latterly as Non-executive Vice Chairman.  I would like to thank him for all 
his support and, on behalf of the Board and staff, I wish Edwin, together with 
his wife Jo, a long and happy retirement.
Subsequently, Jim McCarthy was appointed to the Board in July 2011. Jim 
has assumed the role of Senior independent Non-executive Director and we 
welcome him as a valuable new contributor to the Group. Jim brings a wealth 
of corporate and management experience to Wynnstay, having served in a 
number of very senior and high profile roles, particularly in retailing.  He is 
Chief Executive Officer of Poundland Ltd, the high street retailer, which he 
has led since joining in 2006.  Previously, he was at J Sainsbury Plc, where he 
was Managing Director of Convenience, and between 1989 and 2003, Jim was 
Chief Executive Officer at T & S Stores Plc, the convenience store chain which 
he built up to over 1,100 outlets and subsequently sold to Tesco Plc in 2003.   
OUTLOOK
The significant inflation in agricultural commodity prices, which the Group 
has experienced during the last twelve months, is beginning to reverse. Good 
grain harvests across the globe have increased world grain stocks and, as a 
result, we have seen a weakening in cereal prices. Feed prices are reflecting 
these trends and we expect Group revenues to show the effect of deflation 
in the coming year. Nonetheless, global macro-economic trends, including 
population growth, rising food consumption and the shift to a westernised 
diet, remain unchanged.  These powerful trends will continue to maintain 
the underlying strength of world demand for agricultural products and create 
opportunities for the agricultural industry as a whole. 
Against this backdrop, Wynnstay continues to be very well positioned.  The 
Group is well financed with a strong balance sheet and the spread of our 
activities is a major strength. We will continue to pursue our twin-track 
strategy of growth via acquisition, particularly within our core agricultural 
business, together with organic growth.  We believe that the prospects for 
the Group across both our agricultural and specialist retailing activities 
remain very positive.
£346.18m
revenue for the year 
to 31 October 2011
John	Davies	
Chairman 
24 January 2012
Chairman’s Statement
The broad business 
base of the Group 
continues to be an 
important factor in 
delivering overall growth
