 16 17 www.wynnstay.co.uk Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
This net cash outflow in the year has increased the Group’s year end net 
debt position to £6.67m (2010: £3.47m), producing a gearing level of 
12.9% (2010: 7.3%) of shareholders total equity at the year end. The Board 
planned for an increase in debt levels during the year in order to finance the 
expansion projects completed. The support for the new facilities obtained 
demonstrates the continuing confidence of the Group’s main bankers and 
the Board believes current overall debt is still at a comfortable level, well 
within existing facilities. This provides sufficient headroom to absorb any 
further inflationary pressures from volatile commodity prices.
RISK	MANAGEMENT	
Risks and uncertainties for the business are classified into two main 
categories, Financial and Operational. The Board monitor such risks and 
have developed policies for managing the uncertainties they bring. The main 
elements of these controls operate in the following areas:
Financial	Risk	Management:
The Group policies for managing treasury risks are developed and approved 
by the Board and are designed to minimise exposure to market volatility 
and include: 
Interest	Rate – While currently most of the Group’s term debt is floating 
base rate linked, the Board constantly reviews its option to fix the rates 
attached to this debt through the use of interest rate swap derivatives. Fixed 
rate term finance is used for the acquisition of vehicles.
Foreign	Currency – The main currency related risk to the Group comes from 
the forward purchasing of imported raw materials for our Glasson business. 
This risk is mainly managed by entering into currency purchase agreements 
at the time the underlying transaction is completed. 
Commodity	 Price – While the Group does not engage in the taking of 
speculative commodity positions, it does have to make significant forward 
purchases of certain raw materials, particularly for use in its animal feed 
manufacturing activities. Position reporting systems are in place to ensure 
the Board is appraised of the exposure level on a regular basis, and where 
possible hedging tools, primarily wheat futures contracts on the London 
LIFFE market are used to manage price decisions.
Credit – A significant proportion of the Group’s trade is conducted on credit 
terms and as such a risk of non payment is always present. Detailed systems 
of credit approval before initial supply, the operation of credit limits and 
an active credit control policy act to minimise this risk and historically the 
incidence of bad debts is low. The establishment of the GrainLink business 
has exposed the Group to certain new substantial customer credit exposures, 
and to assist in mitigating this perceived additional risk, a credit insurance 
policy has been purchased to provide partial cover against default by certain 
customers. 
 
Finance Director’s Statement	(continued)
Operational	Risk	Management:
Trading concerns are regularly reviewed in monthly Divisional Management 
meetings, with conclusions reported to the Board. Existing issues include :
Customer	Loss	&	Competition – There is a constant risk of customer loss 
from both industry contraction, particularly in the dairy sector, and through 
enhanced competition. The Group’s continuing strategy for overcoming this 
issue is market share growth through geographic expansion and acquisitions. 
A specific strategy of expanding the multi species feed activities of the 
business has been successfully implemented which will help minimise 
dependence on any particular livestock sector. Significant recent investment 
has also been made in the Company’s direct sales force, both in terms of 
numbers and training.  
Manufacturing	 Productivity – Much of the Group’s feed business is 
conducted on a customer “made to order” basis. This requires sophisticated 
order processing, manufacturing and delivery systems, as low lead times can 
provide a competitive advantage. The breakdown of any of these systems, 
through mechanical fault, weather and traffic disruption, or computer 
malfunctions and errors can create the risk of order fulfillment failure. The 
Group protects against this through the operation of multiple supply points, 
with third party manufacturing arrangements in place, and the back up of all 
IT systems supported with a disaster recovery plan.   
Supply	 Chain	 Efficiency – The Group’s considerable inventories both in 
the retail businesses and as raw materials for the manufacturing activities 
are vital to the success of the organisation, and disruption to this supply 
would damage revenue streams. To minimise this risk, the Group operates 
partnership relationships with as many suppliers as possible which endeavour 
to ensure that optimum stock levels are maintained in Group warehouses, in 
wholesaler locations or within committed supplier facilities.
Reputation – The Group’s trading philosophy is to seek to be the “supplier 
of choice” to its customers. To achieve this, a reputation for quality products, 
service and value for money must be maintained. Through a comprehensive 
employee Information and Consultation policy, all members of staff and 
local management are tasked with enhancing the Group’s reputation in the 
eyes of customers and all other stakeholders of the business.  
Fraud – More difficult general economic circumstances may increase the 
risk of fraud being perpetrated on the Company. The Board has recognised 
this increased risk, and continually reviews internal systems and controls, 
addressing areas of identified weaknesses including any matters raised as 
part of the Group audit process.   
KEY	PERFORMANCE	INDICATORS
The performance of the business is regularly monitored against Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI’s), the comparative results for which are 
reported in the Chairman’s Statement on page 6. These indicators are 
defined as follows :
Revenue: The invoiced value of sales from the Group’s activities, measured 
at a fair value net of all rebates and excluding value added tax.
EBITDA: Group pre-tax profit, including share of pre-tax profits of joint 
ventures and associate, including profit on fixed asset disposals, before 
interest, taxation, depreciation, fixed asset impairment charges and share 
based payments.
Earnings	 per	 share: Profit  for  the year after taxation divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the year excluding any 
shares held by the Group’s Employee Share Ownership Trust.
Return	on	Net	Assets: Group  pre-tax  profit,  including  share  of  pre-tax 
profits of joint ventures and associates before any goodwill impairment or 
share based payment charges, divided by the balance sheet net asset value.
Net	Asset	Per	Share: The balance sheet net asset value, divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding any 
shares held by the Group’s Employee Share Ownership Trust.
Paul	Roberts	
Finance Director 
24 January 2012 18 www.wynnstay.co.uk Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19
DIRECTORS’	APPOINTMENTS	AND	RETIREMENTS
Under Article 91, Mr K.R. Greetham, Mr B.P. Roberts and Lord Carlile CBE QC 
retire from the Board by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Under Article 86, Mr J..J. 
McCarthy, having been appointed to the Board on the 21 July 2011 retires 
and being eligible offers himself for re-election. 
DIRECTORS’	AND	OFFICERS’	LIABILITY	INSURANCE	
During the year the Company purchased and maintained liability  
insurance for its Directors and Officers which remained in force at the  
date of this report.
EMPLOYEES
The Company has procedures for keeping its employees informed about the 
progress of the business. The Company continues to encourage employee 
motivation by operating a Savings Related Share Option Scheme open to all 
employees. The Company provides training and support for all employees 
where appropriate and gives a full and fair consideration to disabled 
applicants in respect of duties which may be effectively performed by a 
disabled person. Where existing employees become disabled, the Company 
will seek to continue employing them, bearing in mind their disability and 
provided suitable duties are available. Failing this, all attempts will be made 
to provide a continuing income.
POLICY	FOR	PAYMENT	OF	CREDITORS
The Group agrees terms and conditions with suppliers before business takes 
place and, while there is no Group code or standard it is not Group policy to 
extend supplier payment terms beyond that agreed. There are no suppliers 
subject to special arrangements. The average credit terms for the Group as 
a whole based on the year-end trade payables figure and a 365 day year is 
50 days (2010: 55 days).
DISCLOSURE	OF	INFORMATION	TO	AUDITORS
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving 
the Directors’ Report are listed on page 2. Having made enquires of fellow 
Directors, each of these Directors (at the date of this report) confirms that:
•  to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company and the Group’s auditors are 
unaware; and
•  each Director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be 
expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company and the Group’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
AUDITORS
The Board have decided to seek competitive tenders for the Group audit for 
2012. Whittingham Riddell LLP have indicated their willingness to continue 
in office up to the point of the conclusion of this competitive review and 
accordingly a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted 
to the Annual General Meeting. Whittingham Riddell LLP have further 
expressed their willingness to be considered in the competitive review, but 
have agreed to resign should they be unsuccessful, to enable the Directors 
to appoint a new auditor in accordance with s489(3)(c) of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
STATEMENT	OF	DIRECTORS’	RESPONSIBILITIES
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•  make judgments and  accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
•  state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements 
in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s and the Group’s 
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and as regards 
the Group financial statement, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Wynnstay Group website is the 
responsibility of the Directors. The work carried out by the auditors does 
not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors 
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to 
the financial statements since they were initially presented on the 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names  are listed on page 2 confirm that, to the 
best of their knowledge:
•  the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of 
the Group; and 
•  the Chief Executive’s Review includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
it faces. 
By order of the Board
B	P	Roberts	
Secretary 
24 January 2012 
The Directors present their report together with the audited financial 
statements of the Parent Company (“the Company”) and the Group for the 
year ended 31 October 2011.
Wynnstay Group Plc (“the Company”) is a public limited Company 
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies 
Act 2006.
The address of the Company’s registered office is Wynnstay Group Plc, Eagle 
House, Llansantffraid-Ym-Mechain, Powys, SY22 6AQ.
The Company has its primary listing on AIM, part of the London  
Stock Exchange.
The Group financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of 
Directors on 24 January 2012.
PRINCIPAL	ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Group continue to be that of the supply of 
agricultural farm inputs to both livestock and arable enterprises, and the 
retailing of specialist merchandise through country stores and specialist pet 
product centres. 
BUSINESS	REVIEW	AND	FUTURE	DEVELOPMENTS
A review of the business and future developments of the Group and a 
discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are 
presented in the Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive’s Review 
included within the Group’s published accounts.
SHARE	CAPITAL
The movement in the share capital during the period is detailed in note 27 
to the financial statements.
RESULTS,	DIVIDENDS	AND	TRANSFERS	TO	RESERVES
Reported under IFRS the Group profit before taxation is £6,852,000 (2010: 
£5,877,000).  After a taxation charge of £1,851,000 (2010: £1,645,000), the 
Group profit for the year is £5,001,000 (2010: £4,232,000).
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 5.20p per ordinary 
25p share net (2010: 4.70p per ordinary 25p share net), to be paid on 30 
April 2012, to shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 30 
March 2012.
The share price will be marked ex dividend with effect from the 28 March 
2012. In accordance with the rules of the Company’s Scrip Dividend Scheme, 
eligible shareholders will be entitled to receive their dividend in the form of 
additional shares. New mandate forms for this scheme should be signed and 
lodged with the Company Secretary 14 days before the dividend payment 
date of 30 April 2012.
DONATIONS
During the year ended 31 October 2011 the Group made charitable 
donations of £2,700 (2010: £2,320) principally to local charities servicing 
the communities in which the Group operates.  
LAND	AND	BUILDINGS
In the opinion of the Directors, the current open market value of the Group’s 
interest in land and buildings exceeds the book value at 31 October 2011 
(refer to note 12) by approximately £3,200,000 (2010: £5,165,000).
	 SUBSTANTIAL	SHAREHOLDERS	
At 31 October 2011, the following shareholders held 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company:
	 Registered	Shareholder  Beneficial	Holder
 Ferlim Nominees Limited  4.90% Discretionary management funds of Investec Wealth & Investment Limited
 Europe  Nominees Limited 4.88% Polar Capital
 The Bank of New York (Nominees) Limited 3.07% Blackrock BGF World Agriculture Fund
 Vidacos Nominees Limited  3.03% Blackrock Agriculture Fund
The Directors are not aware that any other person, Company or Group of Companies held 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
	 DIRECTORS	AND	THEIR	INTERESTS
 The Directors of the Company who held office during the year and their interests in the share capital of the Company at the year end were as follows:
 25p	Ordinary	Shares	 SAYE	Options	 Discretionary	Options
  2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 J E Davies 40,658	 39,815 - - - -
 E G Owen 25,050	 24,530 - - - -
 J C Kendrick 9,980	 9,773 - - - -
 E E Hughes (retired 15 March 2011) n/a	 61,926	 n/a - - -
 B P Roberts 106,000	 110,000	 5,046	 5,046	 36,500 36,500
 Lord Carlile CBE QC 31,656	 30,999 - - - -
 K R Greetham 36,593	 34,668	 7,331	 7,331	 54,000	 54,000
 D A T Evans 12,550	 12,290	 5,918	 5,918	 27,500	 27,500 
 J J McCarthy (appointed 21 July 2011) - n/a - n/a - n/a
No Director held any direct interest in any subsidiary or associate company. Mr J C Kendrick has an interest in Morrey Oils Limited, the controlling shareholder 
in Wynnstay Fuels Limited. Biographical details of the directors are set out before the director’s report.
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 October 2011 20 21 www.wynnstay.co.uk Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
THE	PRINCIPLES	OF	GOOD	GOVERNANCE
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  The 
adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility of 
the Board as a whole, who have considered the twelve principles of good 
practice published in the QCA Corporate Governance Guidelines for Smaller 
Companies issued in September 2010. The Board believes that it has 
incorporated these principles in formulating a Corporate Governance policy 
appropriate  to the size of the Company, and which can provide comfort for  
the Company’s numerous and widespread shareholder base who have the 
right to expect the highest possible level of standards. The Directors are 
pleased to provide the following information:
THE	BOARD	OF	DIRECTORS
The Board currently comprises eight directors, three of whom are executive 
and five non-executives. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are 
separated. The Chairman is non-executive and is elected by the whole Board 
on an annual basis. The executive directors all have considerable experience 
in the agricultural supply industry and have a total of over 53 years 
service with the Group. The non-executives bring a range of business and 
commercial expertise to the Board, including direct agriculture, specialist 
retail, transport & logistics experience and legal and political skills. Primarily 
due to their length of service, three of the non-executive directors are not 
deemed independent under the Combined Code on Corporate Governance. 
James McCarthy, having been appointed in July 2011, is deemed the Senior 
independent non-executive, and Lord Carlile CBE QC, although having served 
on the Board for twelve years, is still deemed independent through the 
integrity provided from his other roles, which include, sitting as a part time 
judge, chairing the Competition Appeals Tribunal, and advising Government 
on various sensitive matters. A formal schedule of matters requiring Board 
approval is maintained, and covers such areas as Group strategy, approval of 
financial budgets and results, Board appointments, approval of major capital 
expenditure and dividend policy. The Board normally meets once a month 
with additional meetings as necessary. Directors are able, if necessary, 
to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties, at 
the Company’s expense. All directors and some senior members of staff 
have adopted a set of guidelines in regard to their responsibilities for the 
management and conduct of the Company. 
BOARD	COMMITTEES
Audit	Committee
This Committee consists of three non-executive directors, Mr J C Kendrick 
(Committee Chairman), Mr E G Owen and Mr J J McCarthy. The Committee 
meets at least four times a year with additional meetings as required. The 
Committee has standard terms of reference in place, which have been 
formally approved by the Board, and which include the supervision of 
the external audit process and the effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls. The terms of reference further task the Committee with identifying 
and evaluating significant internal and external risks faced by the 
Company, and then making recommendations to the Board on appropriate 
strategies for effectively managing these risks. Such risks include: 
•  The reliability of internal and external reporting systems;
•  The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use, loss and fraud;
•  Identifying and properly managing liabilities; and 
•  Ensuring the business operates within all applicable legislation and 
uses best practice wherever possible. 
The Audit Committee met four times during the year. The Committee 
agreed the nature and scope of the audit with the auditors and monitored 
the findings of the auditors. The Committee organise Internal Audit 
assignments to test the operating effectiveness of internal systems and 
controls as appropriate. The Committee has procedures in place to enable 
it to meet with the auditors without the presence of the Company’s 
management and it formulates and oversees the Company policy on 
maintaining auditor objectivity and independence in relation to non audit 
services. The policy is to ensure that the nature of the non audit services 
performed or the fee income relative to the audit does not compromise  
the auditors’ independence, objectivity or integrity and complies with 
ethical standards.
Remuneration	Committee
This Committee of the Board consists of three non-executive directors, Mr E G 
Owen, Mr J C Kendrick and is chaired by Lord Carlile CBE QC. The Committee 
normally meets at least once a year and has standard terms of reference 
in place which have been formally approved by the Board. These terms of 
reference include the formulation of remuneration policies for executive 
directors and senior managers, and the supervision of employee benefit 
structures throughout the Company. The Remuneration Committee did not 
meet  during the year as the Chairman was satisfied that all necessary and 
relevant matters had been considered and agreed in their previous session.
Nomination	Committee
This Committee of the Board currently consists of Mr E G Owen, Mr K R 
Greetham and is chaired by Mr J E Davies. The Committee meets at least 
once a year and has standard terms of reference in place which have been 
formally approved by the Board. The Committee is tasked with reviewing the 
leadership needs of the Company and to make recommendations to ensure 
the continuity of such leadership through the identification, evaluation and 
appointment of both executive and non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and all 
committee members attended.
RELATIONS	WITH	SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders 
and maintains dialogue with institutional shareholders and analysts, and 
presentations are made when financial results are announced. Lord Carlile 
CBE QC is the nominated independent non-executive Director who makes 
himself available to shareholders who may require an independent contact.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with 
private shareholders who are given the opportunity to raise questions at 
the Meeting.  The Company aims to send out notice of the Annual General 
meeting at least 21 working days before the meeting.  Shareholders also 
have access to the Company’s website at www.wynnstay.co.uk.
GOING	CONCERN
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern 
basis, having satisfied themselves from a review of internal budgets and 
forecasts and current bank facilities that the Company and the Group  
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the  
foreseeable future.
Corporate Governance
for the year ended 31 October 2011
INTERNAL	CONTROL
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system of internal 
controls, including financial, operational and compliance, operated by the 
Group and for its effectiveness.  Such a system can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the failure to achieve business 
objectives.  
The key procedures within the control structure include:
•  Managers at all levels in the Group have clear lines of reporting 
responsibility within a clearly defined organisational structure;
•  Comprehensive financial reporting procedures exist with budgets 
covering profits, cash flows and capital expenditure being prepared and 
adopted by the Board annually. Actual results are reported monthly to 
the Board and results compared with budgets and last year’s actual. 
Revised forecasts are prepared as appropriate; and 
•  There is a structural process for appraising and authorising capital 
projects with clearly defined authorisation levels.
AUDITOR	INDEPENDENCE
The Board is satisfied that Whittingham Riddell LLP has adequate policies 
and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence 
is maintained. The Company meets its obligations for maintaining the 
appropriate relationship with the external auditors through the Audit 
Committee, whose terms of reference include an obligation to consider and 
keep under review the degree of work undertaken by the external auditors, 
other than the statutory audit, to ensure such objectivity and independence 
is safeguarded. The Board have resolved that they will conduct a competitive 
tender process for the role of Group auditor during the next six months 
and believes that such a process conducted periodically represents sound 
business practice.
By order of the Board 
B	P	Roberts	
Secretary 
24 January 2012  22 23 www.wynnstay.co.uk Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
to the Shareholders of Wynnstay Group Plc
Independent Auditors’ Report
We have audited the financial statements of Wynnstay Group Plc for the year 
ended 31 October 2011 which comprise the Group Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, 
the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
RESPECTIVE	RESPONSIBILITIES	OF	DIRECTORS	AND	AUDITORS
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set 
on out page 19, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16  
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
SCOPE	OF	THE	AUDIT	OF	THE	FINANCIAL	STATEMENTS	
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the Directors, and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the 
Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with  
the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent  
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implication for 
our report.
OPINION	ON	FINANCIAL	STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 October 2011 and 
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
•  the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; 
and 
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 .
OPINION	ON	OTHER	MATTERS	PRESCRIBED	BY	THE	
COMPANIES	ACT	2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
MATTERS	ON	WHICH	WE	ARE	REQUIRED	TO	REPORT	BY	ExCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
•  the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or 
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit.
Andrew Malpass BA FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of 
WHITTINGHAM	RIDDELL	LLP	
Chartered Accountants & Statutory Auditor
Belmont House 
Shrewsbury Business Park  
Shrewsbury  
Shropshire 
SY2 6LG
Date: 24 January 2012
	 	 		 2011	 		 		 2010
 Note £000		 	 £000	 £000   £000
Continuing	Operations
Revenue 2   346,176		 		 243,744
Cost of sales    (303,672	 )	 		 (204,946 ) 
Gross	Profit    42,504		 		 38,798
Distribution costs    (30,957	 )	 		 (28,539 ) 
Administrative expenses    (4,038	 )	 		 (3,712 ) 
 
Group	Operating	Profit	Before	Goodwill	
Impairment	and	Share-Based	Payment	Costs    7,509		 		 6,547
Goodwill impairment and share-based payments     (422	 )   (474 )
Group	Operating	Profit 4   7,087		 		 6,073
Interest income  3 72	            31
Interest expense 3 (468	 )	         (412 )
Finance charges - net    (396	 )   (381 )
Share of profits/losses in associate and joint ventures  246	    253
Share of tax incurred in associate and joint ventures  (85	 ) 161	 (68 ) 185
Profit	Before	Taxation    6,852		 		 5,877
    
Taxation 8   (1,851	 )	 		 (1,645 )
Profit	for	the	Year    5,001		 		 4,232
Earnings per 25p share 10   30.23p	   27.48p
Diluted earnings per 25p share 10   29.47p	   27.06p
All of the above are derived from continuing operations.
There were no recognised income and expenses for 2011 and 2010 other than those included in the consolidated statement of Comprehensive Income above.
The notes on pages 27 to 50 form part of these financial statements.
for the year ended 31 October 2011
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
