 10 www.wynnstay.co.uk
INTRODUCTION 
The Group continues to perform well and Group pre-tax profits and revenues 
for the year stand at record levels. This has been achieved against a backdrop 
of ongoing price inflation in agricultural products and overall difficult 
economic conditions in the UK. Our robust business model continues to 
provide us with the opportunity to further develop the Group, and the UK 
agricultural market remains well positioned to benefit from increasing world 
demand for food and renewable energy. 
Group revenue increased by 9% to £375.78m over the year, supporting a 
13% rise in Group pre-tax profit to £7.82m. Product volumes varied by sector 
over the period, in line with industry trends, with increased animal feed 
volumes but decreased fertiliser volumes. Traded raw material volumes also 
decreased although this was offset by higher grain volumes, which benefited 
from a full year contribution from GrainLink, our grain trading business 
established following the acquisition of Wrekin Grain Ltd in May 2011.
Over the twelve months under review, we completed a number of small 
acquisitions of agricultural supplies businesses, further expanded our Just 
for Pets chain and established FertLink, a joint venture fertiliser business, 
operated by our Glasson Grain subsidiary. These moves will help to support 
ongoing growth across all our activities and also extend Wynnstay’s 
geographic reach into Oxfordshire and Gloucestershire.
REVIEW OF ACTIVITIES
Agriculture
The agricultural division performed extremely well in a market dominated 
by inflation and adverse weather conditions worldwide. The operating profit 
from our agricultural activities as a whole increased by 23% year-on-year to 
£4.71m on revenues of £295.19m, helped by a full 12 month contribution 
from GrainLink and more realistic margins in feed products. The increased 
revenues reflect variation in product volumes and continuing inflation. The 
feed market was buoyant during the summer, whereas demand for fertiliser 
reduced, in line with industry trends, as the inclement weather and poor 
harvest conditions tempered customers’ confidence to purchase ahead of 
anticipated usage. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Our robust model  
continues to provide us  
with opportunities 11 Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Feed Products
Demand for feed was strong in the second half, reversing the trend in the first 
half, as farmers relied on purchased feeds to balance the poor grazing and 
harvest conditions, a consequence of the poor weather experienced throughout 
the summer. This meant that like-for-like volumes for the year as a whole 
increased by 2% while margins also continued to strengthen. 
As ever, the broad portfolio of feed products we supply, catering for both the 
monogastric and ruminant markets, helped to minimise the effect of any 
individual sector volatility. Increased costs challenged the profitability of 
the dairy farming sector, however many of our customers committed to feed 
contracts during the autumn, mitigating some of the effect of poor milk prices. 
There has been some positive movement in farm gate prices for dairy farmers, 
although input costs have also continued to increase. 
Bibby Agriculture, our joint venture business, performed well, with sales 
increasing year-on-year. 
Glasson
The Glasson business continues to make an excellent contribution to the 
Group. The business supplies raw materials to the feed compound industry as 
well as added-value lines, including wild bird feeds and feeds for smallholder 
farmers, to animal feed outlets. The volume of raw materials traded was lower 
than the previous year (which benefited from a high usage of maize gluten), 
however demand in the second half was strong and forward contracts are very 
encouraging. Glasson’s fertiliser sales increased, primarily as a result of the 
additional throughput generated by Fertlink, the new fertiliser blending activity 
we established as a joint venture at Birkenhead in November 2011. FertLink has 
also enabled Glasson to gain market share beyond its traditional trading area. 
Arable Products
We have expanded the arable division significantly over recent years as part of 
our strategy to balance our presence across the livestock and arable markets.   
Grain volumes increased by over 35% as we benefited from a full year’s trading 
contribution from GrainLink and further volume increases at Woodheads 
Seeds. The very poor weather during the summer had a devastating effect 
on the quality of grain and yields were reduced compared with the harvest of 
2011. This had a small effect on traded volumes towards the year end and we 
expect a further reduction in volume through to the 2013 harvest.  
Seed sales remained resilient, despite the effect of the adverse weather, 
however difficult field conditions have restricted cultivation opportunities and 
many customers will resort to spring varieties if conditions do not improve. 
Demand for these products is at record levels and we anticipate a good spring 
season.
Demand for fertiliser was subdued in the second half, in line with industry 
trends, as poor weather conditions reduced usage on grassland crops. 
Currently forward orders for spring usage are lower than normal as customers 
have been reluctant to commit to early purchases. However we anticipate 
demand recovering as we move towards the spring and the business is well 
placed to meet this demand, with the extended production facilities available 
at FertLink.
8%
increase in revenue from  
our agricultural activities 12 www.wynnstay.co.uk
Specialist Retail
The retail division, which comprises Wynnstay Stores, Just for Pets and 
Youngs Animal Feeds, continues to grow, supported by a combination of 
acquisitions, new store openings and refurbishments. Revenues for the year 
increased by 13% to £80.47m with operating profit up by 5% to £3.90m.  
Wynnstay Stores
Wynnstay Stores comprises a network of rural retail centres providing 
essential supplies for the farming community together with a strong offering 
to smallholders and country dwellers. Total revenues increased by 15% year-
on-year, reflecting the increased number of stores, changes in product mix 
and inflation, with non-discretionary spend by farmers remaining high. The 
importance of our stores within their local rural communities was illustrated 
in October 2012 when the Group was named as the “Powys Business of 
the Year” in an annual regional awards event. Our stores network is also 
recognised by suppliers as an important route to market for their agricultural 
ranges. 
We are continuing to invest in our stores, including personnel, to ensure 
that we offer both relevant range and a professional and reliable service 
to our expanding customer base. Over the course of the second half, we 
acquired two further farm supply outlets, in Tetbury in Gloucestershire and 
in Whitchurch in Shropshire.  After the year ended we purchased another 
outlet in Banbury in Oxfordshire, taking the number of our stores to 31 and 
further expanding the geographic reach of the Group. The new acquisitions 
are performing in line with budget and we look forward to a full year’s 
contribution in 2013. The store refurbishment programme continues and in 
2013 the outlet at Llanfair Caereinion, in Mid Wales, will be relocated to a 
new site we have already acquired.
The division benefited from a significant demand for solar energy products 
during the year and although we do not expect this to be repeated, we 
continue to explore community friendly renewable initiatives to reduce 
energy costs for our agricultural customers.
Just for Pets
The pet products division continues to develop and revenues for the year 
including new store openings increased by 9%. Like-for-like sales rose 
by 2.9%, assisted by increased promotional activity in the first half.  As 
indicated in the half year report, margins were affected in the first half and 
the profitability of the division for the year was lower than the prior year 
although sales improved in the second half. We continue to focus on tight 
cost control and remain proactive with our marketing initiatives to promote 
continuing growth in footfall.
In line with our growth plans, we opened new Just for Pets outlets at Yardley, 
Birmingham in February 2012 and in Coventry in August 2012 and are 
considering further sites for 2013. 
We were delighted to achieve an award from the Pet Care Trade Association 
for the third consecutive year, when our new store at Yardley was voted 
“Favourite pet care retailer” by its customers. The award reflects customer 
care at the store and we believe it typifies the level of service provided 
throughout the chain. 
Youngs Animal Feeds
Youngs Animal Feeds, which manufactures and distributes equine products 
to specialist outlets within the UK, made a good contribution to results.
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
13%
increase in revenue from  
our retail activities 13 Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Joint Ventures and Associate
Our joint ventures, comprising Bibby Agriculture, FertLink, Wynnstay Fuels, 
and Wyro, continued to perform in line with expectations over the year.
STAFF 
The year has been one of challenges and opportunities, and I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank all staff for their contribution to the record 
results we achieved this year. Our personnel continue to be a key factor in 
the ongoing expansion of the Group and I look forward to the Group’s further 
success.
OUTLOOK
There has been significant pressure on our farming customers during the 
season, as a result of adverse weather and rising input costs. While some 
farm gate prices have improved, there is scope for further price rises to 
mitigate the increasing costs. 
The new financial year has started well, specialist retail sales are encouraging, 
feed demand has been strong and we expect a recovery in the demand for 
fertiliser as we move towards the usage period. With the poor grain harvest 
of 2012 and the poor planting conditions for the 2013 crop, we are not 
expecting volumes of traded grain to be buoyant.  Nonetheless, our balanced 
business leaves us well placed to accommodate expected sector variation 
and the new financial year will also benefit from the growth initiatives we 
have put in place over recent years.  
I remain confident about the forthcoming year for the Group and look forward 
to updating all stakeholders at our AGM in March.
Ken Greetham 
Chief Executive 
22 January 2013
Our Personnel  
continue to be a key  
factor in the Group 
