 4 www.wynnstay.co.uk
Our business at a glance
The Group has two complementary divisions, Agriculture and Specialist Retail as well as an interest in a number of Joint 
Ventures and an Associate Company.
The agriculture division covers the manufacturing and supply of a comprehensive range of agricultural inputs to customers 
throughout Wales, the West Midlands, Lancashire and Yorkshire.
Our Retail Division covers the supply of specialist agricultural and retail products to customers throughout 
Wales and the Midlands.
Agriculture
Specialist Retail
FEED DIVISION 
The Feed Division, which operates two compound feed mills and one blending plant, offers a full range 
of animal nutrition products to the agricultural market. The location of the mills allows for logistically 
efficient delivery of our products throughout our trading area, third party mills are also used to satisfy 
additional seasonal and geographic requirements. Both mills are multi species allowing the business 
to provide a broad range of products to service the requirements of ruminant and monogastric animals.
WYNNSTAY STORES 
The rural retail outlets are well established and provide a comprehensive range of products for farmers 
and rural dwellers. The stores, which now number 31 operating in North and Mid Wales and the West 
Midlands, supply a wide range of specialist products to farmers, smallholders and pet owners. Our 
dedicated team are happy to help customers with technical advice on all aspects of the wide range of 
products available. Our increased diversity complements our core agricultural business, acting as an 
important route to market for pharmaceutical companies with whom the Group works with closely to 
provide specialist professional advice to livestock farmers.
ARABLE DIVISION 
The Arable Division supplies a wide range of products to arable and grassland farmers throughout the 
trading area. The Group is recognised as a significant supplier of fertiliser, acting as a principle supplier 
of GrowHow products together with our own Top Crop brand of fertiliser. Seed is processed in Shropshire 
at the arable base as well as at Woodheads Seeds in Yorkshire. Agrochemicals are supplied to complete 
the range of products.
JUST FOR PETS 
Just for Pets which is based in Hartlebury in Worcestershire currently has 21 specialist pet product stores 
operating on busy retail sites throughout the West Midlands, extending east to Cambridge and south to 
Bristol. All stores offer a wide range of pet related products and are recognised as convenient one stop 
shops for all pet owners. Our staff have considerable experience within the pet sector and a significant 
proportion are qualified to offer specialist advice to pet owners. Two stores have an easipetcare concession 
offering veterinary clinic advice and services to customers; this is further complimented by vaccination 
clinics in six of our other stores.
YOUNGS ANIMAL FEEDS 
Youngs Animal Feeds manufactures equine and small animal feeds from its production facility at Standon in 
Staffordshire. It also acts as a distributor of products to the equine market through wholesalers and retailers 
in the West of the UK. 5 Wynnstay Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Locations
Astley Llansantffraid
Rhosfawr
Carmarthen
Hartlebury
Glasson
Selby
 
Glasson, which operates from Glasson Dock near Lancaster has traditionally been a raw 
materials trader and fertiliser blender. Glasson’s activities now include the packaging of 
added value products supplied to specialist animal feed retailers. The business is also 
involved in a joint venture, FertLink, which is based at Birkenhead, near Liverpool.
GrainLink, the Groups in-house grain marketing company, provides farmers with an 
independent professional marketing service backed by the financial security of the 
Wynnstay Group. The Company has access to major markets for specialist milling and 
malting grain as well as feed into mills throughout our trading area.
Woodheads Seeds operates a seed processing plant, near Selby in Yorkshire, supplying a 
full range of cereal and herbage seeds to farmers and wholesale customers. The Company 
also trades grain and supplies fertiliser to farmers in its trading area.
