 10
Xaar plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Ian Dinwoodie
Chief Executive
Introduction
2005 was a very successful year for Xaar. 
It is particularly pleasing to report another twelve months of strong 
sales, conﬁ rming that our technology is well-placed to beneﬁ t from 
the excellent long term prospects for all aspects of digital printing. 
It is also encouraging to note the expanding range of applications 
for our technology, taking us into the new ﬁ elds of ﬂ uid and materials 
deposition – not just printing in the traditional sense. Our long experience 
in manufacturing piezo-based inkjet products has continued to ensure 
that Xaar is highly proﬁ table with strong margins in the year at both the 
gross and operating level. 
During the second half of the year we embarked on the next stage of 
the group’s development with plans for a new production facility in the 
UK to manufacture our ﬁ rst Platform 3 product, the speciﬁ cation of 
which has now been ﬁ nalised following extensive and positive feedback 
from our early alpha test partners. Evaluation kits for the printhead have 
already been shipped to potential customers and volume supply will be 
available from the end of 2006. 
Product sales
Printheads remain the dominant proportion of our revenues, representing 
85% of total group sales. As we expand our product portfolio we have 
taken the opportunity to simplify its presentation by grouping it into 
three discrete product platforms, each with a clear focus on particular 
market segments. 
Platform 1, which comprised the majority of product sales in 2005, 
encompasses our lower resolution products – the XJ126, XJ128 and 
XJ500 printheads – targeted at external signage and advertising, 
together with coding and marking applications. All Platform 1 
products experienced double digit growth in the year and equipment 
manufacturers continue to introduce new printing machines based on 
our best-selling printhead, the XJ128. During the year we introduced 
a new product to this platform, the OmniDot 380, which has been 
designed to ﬁ ll the gap between the XJ128 and the XJ500. 
“ Our primary long term 
objective is to maintain 
the proﬁ table growth 
of the last two years...”
As we move from outdoor or wide-format graphics to higher 
resolution indoor graphics for point-of-sale materials the OmniDot 
760 is ideally positioned with its greyscale variable drop capability.  11
Xaar plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Platform 2 was introduced during the year and currently consists of the 
greyscale OmniDot 760 in 3 and 8 picolitre dropsize variations bringing 
Xaar into the higher resolution indoor advertising and poster markets 
(including the version of the product manufactured for Agfa). The 
products commenced commercial shipments during the year and, whilst 
they are modest contributors at this early stage, I expect the contribution 
from this range of products to grow signiﬁ cantly in the future. 
Platform 3, the HSS, will be launched commercially at the end of 2006 and 
will open up the higher productivity narrow format sheet and web fed print 
markets and non-print related industrial applications. Selected partners in 
these markets have already received the printhead for evaluation. 
For the future we will continue to enhance and develop products across 
all three platforms to meet the evolving needs of the markets they 
serve, as well as enhancing the core technology on which all platforms 
are based.
Xaar’s ink business continues to contribute positively to the group’s 
results. The business is a combination of our own direct sales of 
low volume, Xaar-branded specialist inks together with growing 
commissions from partners on their sales of approved Xaar-compatible 
inks. During the year we added seven more commission-based ink 
partners, including well known brands such as Hexion and Tetenal, 
to broaden the choice available to end customers by both geography 
and application. We also saw early ink revenues from India and South 
America, which is encouraging for the future.   
Royalties and development fees
Royalty receipts from licensees increased as the volume of printheads 
designed and manufactured by licensees using our patents increased. 
Development fees also include revenue from Vivid, our small integration 
operation in the US, early-stage business development activities 
and design work carried out on behalf of third parties. Since the year 
end we have sold Vivid to one of our integration partners, Xennia 
Technology Ltd. (see Finance Director’s report). 
Geographic markets
When considering the geographic split of our business it is important 
to understand that Xaar’s immediate customers are printing equipment 
manufacturers, not the end-users of such equipment. As a result, 
our geographic analysis of sales is not representative of where our 
printheads are actually used. 
Asia remains our largest market, representing 59% of turnover with 
growth of 29% in the year. Most of our Asian customers produce 
graphics printing machines and many of them now export a signiﬁ cant 
proportion of their equipment to the American and European markets.  
Europe (and the Middle East) is our second largest geographic market 
accounting for a third of group sales with growth of 24% in 2005. 
Wide-format graphics and coding and marking make up the majority 
of sales in this market and Europe continues to be a highly active and 
innovative region for new inkjet applications.
Sales to the Americas fell by 12% during the year to 8% of total revenues 
due to one large customer ceasing its manufacturing operations in 
the USA. Longer term we see future growth in sales to the Americas 
coming from both new customers in the graphics market – where 
high-end sophisticated machines continue to be manufactured in the 
US, and new industrial applications as these develop over the next few 
years. In addition, we expect growth from South America where we 
now have a Brazilian sales ofﬁ ce, through which we will be supporting 
a number of local printer manufacturers in their planned launch of 
wide–format printing machines in the coming year. 12
Xaar plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s review continued
End user markets
The graphic arts market, and particularly the wide and grand format 
sectors of this market, continues to be the largest single application 
for Xaar technology today. Sales to the graphics printing market grew 
28% in the year and accounted for 77% of total revenues. The growth 
of digital printing in what was the traditional analogue screen printing 
market continues apace. 
Outer-case coding provides the primary demand for Xaar’s technology 
in the packaging market and represents 15% of group sales. We saw 
some shrinkage in 2005, following a signiﬁ cant burst of growth in 2004, 
with sales falling 5%; however, sales have grown nearly 40% over the 
last two years and we expect volumes to pick up again in 2006. 
Our business development initiatives for industrial markets continue 
to make progress and are covered in more detail in the Finance 
Director’s report. Applications ranging from display screens, through 
printed electronics, biomedical and human tissue engineering are being 
developed with key strategic partners in each sector. These represent 
medium to longer term opportunities but are already generating 
early-stage revenues. 
Product development
The group continued to invest in research and development during the 
year in each of our three product platforms and in the next step forward 
in our core technology. Total R&D spend for the year was £5.5m, 
or 13% of revenue.
The ﬁ rst Platform 2 products – our own OmniDot and its Agfa variant – 
together with their support peripherals, the XUSB drive electronics and 
ink supply system, have now been transferred to full scale production 
and are commercially available to customers. 
With the increasing demand to print on a wide range of substrates 
(surfaces) we continue to test and approve a wide spectrum of 
inks and functional ﬂ uids from a variety of vendors. The addition of 
aqueous-based inks, to those already compatible with the OmniDot 760, 
allows us to move into new markets such as textiles. 
“ Our business development initiatives 
for industrial markets...are already 
generating...revenues.” 13
Xaar plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s review continued
Xaar’s Platform 3 product, HSS, is now ready for initial production. 
The ﬁ rst HSS prototypes were shipped on schedule to alpha test 
sites during the year and, based on the positive feedback received 
from those tests, the ﬁ nal production speciﬁ cation has been set. 
Fully functioning prototypes are now being produced in the Cambridge 
pilot line to satisfy customer testing programmes in 2006, prior to its 
commercial launch in 2007.
Manufacturing
Despite the high standards we have already achieved, operational 
improvements continue to be made in the key areas of quality, cost and 
delivery. These improvements increased gross margins to 62%, despite 
some signs of pricing pressure in the marketplace. Further product cost 
savings are expected to maintain margins. Commercial production of 
the OmniDot 380 and 760 was also successfully started during the year 
and volumes are increasing.
Work on our second plant in Huntingdon is now underway; ﬁ t-out of 
the facility is due to be complete by mid 2006, with installation and 
commissioning of production equipment scheduled for the second 
half of the year. Although the process is highly automated, the plant 
will initially create around 30 new jobs.
Priorities for the future
Our primary long term objective is to maintain the proﬁ table growth of 
the last two years whilst developing further growth through a broader 
revenue mix across products, geographies and end user markets based 
on the aggressive extension of our lead in inkjet technology. 
Our main markets today, graphic arts and coding and marking, are 
widely forecast to maintain their recent growth rates over the medium 
term – maintaining the growth of our Platform 1 products. Incremental 
sales will be generated by our Platform 2 products as they take us into 
the high resolution or ﬁ ne feature print markets – which initially will be 
weighted towards Europe and the Americas. Our Platform 3 products 
will add further sales from web and sheet fed applications – also 
weighted towards non-Asian locations. 
Progress in development of non-print related industrial applications 
through our business development activities remains on track. Whilst 
these opportunities are not short term initiatives, the innovation and 
potential for longer term growth remains attractive.
People
Once again I would like to thank all of our staff for their skill and 
dedication which has resulted in the excellent performance for 2005. 
We are now entering a very exciting period of development for the 
group; through the ﬂ exibility and determination of our staff we expect 
be able to maximise and exploit the many opportunities we see ahead. 
Ian Dinwoodie 
Chief Executive
13 March 2006
