 Chairman’s statement
Well placed in  
a growing market
I am delighted to report on a year of 
significant progress in our business during 
the 12 months ended 31 December 2013. 
Continuing the theme from my 2013 Interim 
Report, we have continued to deliver 
excellent financial results, whilst investing 
heavily for the future. All of our investments 
during the period in additional staff, facilities, 
and assets have been self-funded.  
Due to the substantial rise in our market 
capitalisation we were pleased to be 
admitted to the FTSE 250 in June 2013.
We have grown our revenue in each of  
our markets such that we achieved record 
revenue in the year, growing 55% over 2012 
and more than trebling revenue over the last 
four years. Adjusted profit before tax has 
more than doubled over 2012, which was 
itself a 7 4% increase over 201 1. Adjusted 
diluted earnings per share has also more 
than doubled to 43.2p in 2013 (2012: 20. 1p), 
this being the fourth year in a row of 
substantial earnings growth. We continue  
to generate cash despite the investments 
referred to above and ended 2013 with  
net cash (cash and cash equivalents  
and treasury deposits) of £53.5 million  
and no debt resulting in a very strong 
balance sheet.
Sales into the industrial sector continue  
to account for a high proportion of our 
revenues, driven primarily by the continued 
conversion of the global ceramic tile market 
and success of Platform 3 (P3) products. 
Other applications in the sector, including 
decorative laminates and additive 
manufacturing, continue to make good  
early stage progress, albeit generating 
modest revenues to date. The packaging 
market continues to be a key focus area  
for the Company, and during the year we 
achieved strong growth in the primary label 
application. It was also pleasing to see the 
first public demonstrations of ‘direct-to-
shape’ printing technology during the  
second half of the year and we will continue 
to work with our OEM partners in this space 
to support the field trials of the technology 
during 2014. Sales into the graphics market 
continue to be dominated by our older 
generation of products; this will be 
addressed by the launch of a new 
generation product during 2014 which is 
intended to re-start growth in this market.
Our excellent profit performance has  
been achieved as a result of extremely  
high asset and people utilisation. In order to 
bring utilisation back to standard levels and 
create the opportunity for further growth we 
are investing £30 million in manufacturing 
assets at the Huntingdon facility to generate 
an additional 75% manufacturing capacity 
for the Xaar 1001/2 product, which is 
scheduled to be in place by mid-2014. The 
dramatic, but virtually trouble free, increase 
in output during 2013 could not have been 
achieved without the dedication and talent 
of the Xaar Operations team. 
During this rapid growth phase we have 
continued to hire talent globally. Whilst  
the majority of hires have been from the UK, 
the specialised nature of our business and 
our desire to employ only the best means 
that we have attracted people from around 
the world and have built a truly multi-national 
team of approximately 800 staff. Our 
Huntingdon manufacturing site has 
increased staff by 57% during 2013. 
Additionally, we have increased research 
and development (R&D) staff by 64% and 
this has required us to take a third building 
on the Cambridge Science Park.
I reserved comment on our new thin film 
piezo technology (Platform 4) deliberately  
until after mentioning the significant 
additional investment we are making in 
R&D. We anticipate that our bulk piezo 
technology has a strong future, but we 
know that there is plenty of opportunity  
for a new supplementary technology  
Phil Lawler
Chairman 
18 March 2014
6 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 with different attributes. Progress has  
been made during 2013 culminating 
in a successful internal technology 
demonstration in December 2013. We 
remain on track with our plan to deliver  
the first thin film product commercially  
in late 2016. Our plans are ambitious and 
therefore come with risks. However, as a 
global leader in this very large but highly 
segmented market, we believe this is 
unquestionably the right decision. 
Xaar’s consistent approach is one of 
delivery and we have deliberately chosen  
to be relatively low profile. However, it was 
pleasing during one week in November 
2013 to receive the following awards:
• ‘Main Stock Market Company of the Year’ 
– Shares Magazine
• ‘Tech Growth Business of the Year’ –  
UK Tech Awards
• ‘UK Manufacturing Site of the Year’ – 
National Microelectronics Institute
Additionally, in March 2014 Xaar plc won 
‘Company of the Year’ for 2013 at the  
PLC Awards.
These awards are a testament to the 
increased standing the Group has achieved, 
due entirely to the high quality and 
dedication of its management and staff.
Xaar’s continuing financial performance  
and increased net cash in 2013 has enabled 
the Board to recommend a final dividend of 
5.5 pence. This, together with the 2.5 pence 
interim dividend paid on 4 October 2013, 
equals 8 pence for the year, a doubling  
of the total dividend paid for 2012.
There were no changes to Board 
membership during 2013; however,  
due to the significant growth of the 
Company there will be changes during 
2014. Due to the significantly enlarged scale 
of the R&D function, the Board has decided 
to appoint a Chief Technical Officer (CTO) 
and I am delighted to announce that 
Edmund Creutzmann will join the Board  
as CTO on 1 April 2014. Edmund brings 
over 30 years of digital printing R&D 
expertise to the Company following an 
extensive career at Siemens AG and Océ 
Printing Systems GmbH. Reporting to the 
CTO the R&D function has been split into 
two departments, with R&D 1 focusing on 
bulk piezo technology products (Platform  
1, 2, 3) and R&D 2 focusing on thin film 
technology products (Platform 4). Ramon 
Borrell, previously R&D Director, will  
become Director of R&D 2, and a new  
hire, Brian James, will head up R&D 1.  
As a consequence Ramon Borrell will step 
down from the Board effective 1 April 2014, 
allowing him to concentrate all his efforts  
on the critical task of successfully bringing 
Platform 4 to market. We welcome Edmund 
to the Board and thank Ramon for all his 
contributions as R&D Director. We look 
forward to his success on the thin film 
programme. A second planned change  
to the Board anticipated for 2014 is the 
recruitment of an additional experienced 
Non-Executive Director to bring 
organisational development experience  
to the Board as well as improving the 
balance of Executive to Non-Executive 
Board membership.
After 12 years of dedication and focus  
to Xaar, Ian Dinwoodie, CEO, has informed 
the Board of his intention to retire during 
2015. Ian has overseen the significant 
development of the Company, with an 
adjusted diluted earnings per share of  
1.6 pence when he took over as CEO  
in 2003, growing to a record 43.2 pence  
in 2013. An extensive search will now  
be undertaken for Ian’s successor.
The annual report and accounts have  
been re-designed for 2013 to provide a 
more focused and useful document to 
readers of the accounts, giving a good 
understanding of both the opportunities  
and risks faced by the Group. This is in  
line with recommendations from the 
Combined Code and best practice. The 
Group continues to comply with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2010. Board 
meetings are supported by detailed papers 
and timely minutes. Attendance by all 
members remains excellent and I take  
this opportunity to thank them for their 
continuing commitment, professionalism 
and, above all this year, results. The Board 
continues to take dedicated days to 
consider and review the Group’s strategy. 
Detailed market and competitive analysis  
is undertaken in advance and the future 
direction and capabilities of the Group are 
debated in detail. The Board, its Executives, 
Chairman and Non-Executives are all 
evaluated annually against specific and 
relevant performance criteria.
Whilst 2013 has been an excellent year  
of progress for the Company, and the  
next period is expected to be more modest 
in terms of growth, we believe we are still 
very much at the start of the analogue  
to digital print transformation and as  
such we continue to see significant 
opportunities ahead. 
‘ We have grown our revenue in  
each of our markets such that  
we achieved record revenue  
in the year . ’
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
www.xaar.com 7
