 Our business at a glance
Xaar is a world leader in the development of inkjet technology 
and a manufacturer of piezoelectric drop-on-demand 
industrial inkjet printheads, the key component in a digital 
printing system. Unlike analogue printing, digital printing 
requires no physical master image to copy from, and hence 
enables economic short run, or variable data, printing. The 
printhead is the device which converts the electronic image 
data into the physical image on the substrate. To achieve this, 
Xaar technology is a combination of high speed mixed signal 
electronics, micro-mechanics, and fluid dynamics. 
Our flagship printhead is the Xaar 1001, but our full range 
includes numerous other printheads. A typical industrial inkjet 
machine could be firing up to 300 million drops of ink per 
second – that’s over 1 trillion drops per hour, all controlled 
within the picolitre range of volume and the micron range  
of placement accuracy (a picolitre is a millionth of a millionth  
of a litre, and a micron is a millionth of a metre).
Xaar sells its technology in component form (the printhead)  
to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) who produce 
and sell the end digital printing product to the end market. In 
addition to our close engagement with OEMs we also actively 
partner and co-develop with fluid suppliers, hardware and 
software integrators, and substrate suppliers to deliver a 
robust and attractive total solution to the end user. 
Our technology is used all over the world in a wide range of 
manufacturing applications.
We design and manufacture our printheads in the UK and 
Sweden, exporting over 90% of our production to customers 
around the world. We also develop and sell ink systems, 
electronics, and fluid optimisation services to accelerate  
inkjet system development and adoption.
Industrial
The Industrial sector presently includes ceramic tile 
decoration, decorative laminate, and advanced/additive 
manufacturing processes.
Packaging
The Packaging sector presently includes primary  
labels, secondary labels, coding and marking,  
and direct-to-shape printing.
Graphic Arts
The Graphic Arts sector presently includes Grand/Wide-
format graphics.
Revenue 
£98.2m
2012: £55.0m 
Contribution to 2013 
adjusted revenue 
73%
2012: 64% 
Revenue 
£15.7m
2012: £12.0m 
Contribution to 2013 
adjusted revenue 
12%
2012: 14%
Revenue 
£13.3m
2012 £13.1m
Contribution to 2013 
adjusted revenue 
10%
2012: 15% 
4 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2010
160
120
140
80
100
60
40
20
0
2009 2011 2012 2013
■ Industrial 
■ Graphic Arts Royalties
■ Packaging
■ 
Adjusted revenue £m
Ceramic tile production 
Ceramics is a 10.5 billon m
2
 market currently and 
digital conversion was estimated to be around 
40% at the end of 2013. There are c. 10,000 
production lines around the world, with almost  
half of these in China. Decoration is the key feature 
which sells the tile. Xaar digital inkjet solution 
provides an end result which is superior in terms  
of image quality, at a lower cost, plus with the 
advantages of flexibility, inventory reduction,  
and larger tile size capability. Tile manufacturing 
operates in a harsh industrial environment with 
high reliability/duty cycle requirements; hence any 
technology deployed needs to be appropriately 
robust. The market has been moving to digital 
inkjet decoration over the last ten years but 
the pace of change has recently accelerated 
significantly because the Xaar 1001 with TF 
Technology™ delivers both quality and cost 
advantages over traditional analogue methods 
within a robust architecture suitable to this  
harsh environment. 
Coding and marking 
Coding and marking is an application of printing 
predominantly monochrome bar codes and  
logos on outer case/secondary packaging of 
consumer goods. This is an established and 
stable business based on bulk piezo which 
competes with alternative technologies  
including laser and thermal inkjet.
Grand/Wide-format graphics 
Grand/Wide-format graphics (GWFG)  
includes both internal and external signage  
and advertising, including billboards, posters 
and point of sale advertising. It is the most 
mature industrial inkjet market, active for over 
15 years. Xaar’s growth to date has been based 
on its original set of bulk piezo products, which 
delivered annual growth from 2003 to 2007 .  
To stimulate further material growth for Xaar 
new product developments are required to 
enhance the portfolio, the first of which is 
expected to launch during 2014.
Decorative laminates
Decorative laminates is estimated to be at  
7 .9 billon m
2
 of annual output with c. 1,600 
production lines around the world supplying 
simulated wood materials to the furniture and 
building industries. Decoration is often the key 
feature which sells the board/plank/finished item 
and digital quality is now being demonstrated 
which matches the analogue process, thereby 
offering the opportunity for more economic  
short run work to be undertaken whilst reducing 
inventories and improving time to market. Inkjet  
is the only digital solution which meets the high 
reliability and high duty cycle requirements 
needed within this industry. Digital adoption  
is still at the very early stages in this application, 
and the rate of adoption is expected to grow  
over the next few years.
Primary label 
Primary label printing is estimated to be  
a market producing over 55 billion m
2
 annually,  
with only 5% of this market converted to digital 
printing to date. The change driver is the delivery 
of lower cost per copy on run lengths up to 
100,000 impressions (versus only 50,000 
impressions 3 years ago). There is a large range 
of substrates and inks in this application which 
adds complication to the conversion process; 
however, over the past year progress in this  
space is clear.
Advanced/additive manufacturing 
Applications include demand for the fine coating, 
patterning and printing of functional fluids onto 
numerous substrates in numerous industries.  
The square meterage of these types of 
applications is smaller than many mainstream 
printing processes; however, the value of the  
fluid deposition process is considerably higher. 
Applications are challenging and push inkjet to  
its known limits and beyond in fields such as 
nano imprinting, solar cell manufacturing and 
display screen production. Xaar has been 
working with multiple partners in laboratories  
all over the world exploring what may be possible  
in the future. Technical progress is promising but 
volume commercial implementation of many of 
these applications is still believed to be some 
years into the future.
Direct-to-shape 
Direct-to-shape is a new application  
where the bottles and containers are directly 
imaged without the need for a label. This 
emerging sector will undergo first field trials 
during 2014. The solution is aimed at shortening  
time to market whilst simultaneously reducing 
inventory and unit costs versus existing 
methods. This approach also enables mass 
customised marketing and event targeting. 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
www.xaar.com 5
