 Chief Executive’s statement
A clear strategy 
for growth
2013 has been an exceptional year for  
Xaar and represents the fourth year in a  
row of substantial growth in both revenue 
and profits for the Company. This year’s 
excellent financial performance has been 
mainly driven from the acceleration of  
the adoption of Xaar’s market-leading 
technology in the Chinese ceramic  
tile market and good progress in the 
development of the packaging market. 
Sales growth has been enabled by a 
rapid ramp in output from the Huntingdon 
facility which has been working at well  
over 100% of its standard capacity  
for the majority of the year.
Two important investment decisions  
were taken during 2013. Firstly, we began  
a programme to further increase capacity  
at the Huntingdon site to ensure that growth 
over the next few years would not be 
restricted by the availability of production 
capacity. Secondly, we accelerated the 
growth in R&D resources and re-organised 
the R&D function to ensure that appropriate 
resources are allocated to the development 
of both our existing bulk piezo technology 
and our new thin film piezo technology. 
Given that the industry is still at an early 
stage of the transition from analogue to 
digital printing, and the size of the potential 
opportunity, we are committed to continuing 
to make substantial R&D investment for 
many years to ensure that Xaar maximises 
its future potential. 
Our strategy is to drive the development  
of Xaar technology into selected multiple 
applications and industries, delivering 
sustainable profitable growth. Our tactics 
are to become the primary enabler of 
change in our target markets, leading the 
initial wave of conversion, and then to 
protect our position through replacement 
product sales enabled by continuous 
product development. The size of the 
conversion opportunity, the rate of change, 
and the key characteristics enabling that 
change will vary from market to market. 
OEMs are mostly market specific which 
means we work with a number of OEM 
customers in developing their inkjet 
solutions for a discrete market.
Further detail on our strategy and  
progress made in 2013 is set out  
in the ‘Our strategy’ section.
Market adoption of our technology 
strengthened during the year with revenues 
from industrial applications growing 79% 
and packaging applications growing 31%. 
Our graphics business grew very modestly 
and is expected to grow faster following  
the launch of the Xaar 501 in 2014. Within 
Industrial applications, the ceramic tile 
business moved ahead very strongly  
with laminate and advanced/additive 
manufacturing applications making 
encouraging but early modest progress. 
Ian Dinwoodie
Chief Executive 
18 March 2014
8 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Within the packaging applications the 
primary label revenues grew strongly  
whilst the coding and marking revenues 
were stable. Good technical progress was 
made in the ‘direct-to-shape’ application; 
material revenues are not expected until 
2015 at the earliest.
The doubling of R&D spending and the 
creation of two discrete R&D labs, each 
focused on its own technology stream, is 
intended to enable a multi-year pipeline  
of new products based on both bulk and 
thin film piezo technology. During 2014  
both the Xaar 1002 and the Xaar 501 
products will launch, which are intended  
to both strengthen our offering in existing 
markets and open up new opportunities. 
Also releasing in early 2014 is our gigabit 
ethernet based electronics sub-system 
named XPM. This product offers customers 
significantly increased data transfer rates 
and memory for data intensive applications. 
Additionally, during 2014 we will market  
test a completely new bulk piezo jetting 
structure aimed at significantly higher film 
weight applications where drop sizes up  
to 10,000 times the size normally used in 
digital printing are required. If successful, 
material revenues could be expected from 
2015 onwards. 
Significant progress has been achieved  
on our thin film technology development 
during the year, culminating in a successful 
internal technology demonstration in 
December 2013. The first thin film product 
development is now under way and as 
previously stated we would anticipate 
sampling this to customers in 2015 with  
first commercial revenues planned for late 
2016. The thin film programme is aimed at 
converting new markets and accelerating 
the conversion of others through a portfolio 
of new products.
Substantial capacity and capability have 
been added to the Company during the 
year including £19.8 million of capital asset 
additions, 2,500 m
2
 of additional laboratory 
and design/development space, and over 
300 people hired. I would like to thank all  
of our staff for their efforts to achieve  
this substantial change in scale of the 
Company over such a short period.
Whilst growth is expected to be more 
modest over the next period, looking further 
forward the opportunities for digital print 
continue to develop, with industry forecasts 
projecting that the conversion to digital over 
the next 10 years is expected to be twice 
that seen in the last 20 years. Technology 
and product developments are key to  
this change and Xaar is committed to 
maximising its opportunity by continuing  
to push at the forefront of this revolution. 
After 12 challenging and enjoyable years  
at Xaar I have decided to retire during 2015. 
My decision is entirely a personal one, and  
I remain fully committed to continuing the 
development of the Company between  
now and my planned retirement date. We 
are beginning the search for my successor 
now, and I will ensure that a smooth 
transition occurs during 2015.
‘ 2013 has been an exceptional year 
for Xaar and represents the fourth 
year in a row of substantial growth  
in both revenue and profits. ’
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
www.xaar.com 9
