 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 18
KEN LEVER 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Chief Executive’s report and Market review
2014: T urning the corner
“We continue to simplify our 
structure as we exit legacy business 
and have invested significantly in 
our strategy to put technology at 
the core of all our businesses. ”
MEETING THE CHALLENGE
We have completed our transformation into a business 
technology and services provider . In last year’s annual 
report we said 2014 would be a challenging year as we 
transition from ‘old’ to ‘new’ Xchanging. We set ourselves 
two objectives for the year: to match 2013 profitability, 
despite the additional ground we needed to make up from 
businesses we chose to exit in the previous year; and to 
position the Company for a resumption of growth in 2015. 
I am pleased to report we have met the stretching challenge 
we set ourselves and achieved both our objectives. 
STRATEGIC PROGRESS
In 2014 Xchanging turned the corner . We continued 
to simplify our structure as we exited legacy business 
and, as set out in last year’s report, we have invested 
significantly in our strategy to put technology at the 
heart of all our businesses.  Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 19
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
MARKET REVIEW
MOVING FROM OUTSOURCING TO ‘OUT-TASKING’
The Business Processing Services (‘BPS’) market has changed. 
Low-priced service provision is no longer enough. Service 
providers must add value for their customers. Innovation and 
technology-enablement are prerequisites for successful 
partnerships. Providers are turning to analytics and data 
manipulation to move from data provider to knowledge creator , 
empowering decision makers within customer organisations.
As the BPS market matures, becoming more sophisticated, 
enterprises are increasingly recognising value in signing deals 
with specialist, best-in-class providers.
i
 Industry-specific 
providers, or those with focused offerings within industry 
agnostic services are well-placed to address this demand. 
Delivery models are also changing. Approximately one-in-three 
enterprises are already using (or are about to use) Business-
Processing-as-a-Service (‘BPaaS’) or Software-as-a-Service 
(‘SaaS’) as an alternative to traditional outsourcing in areas 
including industry-specific operations and procurement.
ii
 
Recognising these trends, Ken Lever predicts that “ As part of this 
market evolution, I see a trend towards ‘out-tasking’ rather than 
outsourcing. Processes will no longer be acknowledged as 
processes, just things that are done. Companies rarely invest in 
technology and capabilities to provide their own postal service. 
At Xchanging, we are positioning ourselves for this trend. ” 
Xchanging provides both technology and technology-enabled 
services to customers in a range of industries. Industry-specific 
solutions are provided for the P&C Insurance and Banking and 
Capital Markets sectors. In P&C Insurance, customers are 
increasingly demanding that service providers inject innovation 
into their operations.
iii
 Xchanging has responded with, for 
example, Netsett, Xpresso and Xoom. In Banking and Capital 
Markets, the market for BPS is driven by cost reduction; however , 
analytics, regulatory management capabilities and the demand 
for technology-enablement are creating new opportunities. 
Xchanging is identified as a ‘leader’ and ‘technology-driven’ 
provider to Capital Markets customers.
iv
Some of the markets where Xchanging has targeted for growth 
are explored on the next three pages.
Although interest is strong, the signing of Xuber contracts is taking 
longer than we anticipated, affected by softness in the market and 
the inherent time it takes for large software infrastructure 
investments to be approved by potential customers. The uncertainty 
created by the CMA review process has also impacted this business. 
The significant Everest Re win in the US in late 2013 however 
evidences why we remain confident about the prospects for Xuber 
over time. 
Our T echnology business is also being reshaped by the strong 
emergence of our Application Services business, which came 
under dynamic new leadership in late 2011. This business, which was 
also reviewed at our November 2014 Investor Seminar  
(see www.xchanging.com), addresses a large and attractive global 
market where we have demonstrated our ability to grow existing 
accounts as well as to win new contracts.
PROCUREMENT
We have now also largely dealt with the legacy issues in our 
Procurement business which since July has been under new 
leadership. We have dramatically refocused the range of our 
traditional services and introduced a new offering, Tail-end Spend 
Management. This is an emerging market segment where we believe 
we can compete very effectively. All our procurement offerings are 
now based around the MM4 technology platform which is enhanced 
by our acquisition of Spikes Cavell in February 2015. 
Following these changes mid-year we have seen some significant 
sales successes in the second half of 2014, building on a good 
year’s performance by the core MM4 business. Our rejuvenated 
Procurement business was reviewed at our November 2014 Investor 
Seminar (see www.xchanging.com). 
BUSINESS PROCESSING SERVICES
We exited another Enterprise Partnership when we gained 100% 
ownership of our German Investment Account Administration BPS 
business, Fondsdepot Bank. We further strengthened this business 
by acquiring the remaining accounts we did not already own. The 
contract to service these remaining accounts was due for renewal 
in 2015, so by securing this customer base we have removed 
a significant risk. We now have an opportunity to develop and grow 
this business.
Our remaining, core, partnerships lie in our Insurance business 
where we enjoy a good and mutually supportive relationship with our 
Lloyd’s and International Underwriters Association partners. In our 
provision of services to the market we are active contributors to the 
Lloyd’s Central Services Refresh Programme and integral to the 
Lloyd’s Market Modernisation Programme. Investment will 
commence in 2015 alongside investment by our partners as we 
collectively invest in technology to support market modernisation. 
TECHNOLOGY
In our T echnology segment, to accelerate the building of our Xuber 
insurance software business, we made two acquisitions: T otal Objects 
and Agencyport Europe
*
. These two businesses offer operating 
synergies, bring new customer bases and open up or support 
existing additional segments of the insurance software market 
including in Binders, Risk exposure modelling and Health Insurance 
claims processing. The CMA decision to refer the Agencyport Europe
*
 
acquisition for a Phase 2 review was disappointing. We await the 
outcome which should be known by the middle of the year .
Insurance is increasingly a global business and we are well 
positioned to offer insurance software products that meet the 
international and standardised needs of global players. 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 20
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR FUTURE GROWTH
T o support our future growth, we continued to invest in our 
organisational infrastructure in 2014. This has in part involved 
rationalising a myriad of legacy systems, for example in HR, Finance 
and IT , as well as introducing new technology, in particular , to 
enhance our Management Information systems and our ability 
to collaborate efficiently.
We also made further investment in the development of our Sales 
& Marketing infrastructure, and our improving sales performance in 
2014 provided some first rewards from this. After three years, we are 
well through both of these investment programmes, which are 
starting to show returns. We will continue to invest incrementally.
Our London head office move into new premises in early April has 
proved successful, offering a much improved working environment 
for employees and the technology infrastructure to suit our  
re-focused technology-enabled portfolio of offerings.
INVESTMENT PROPOSITION
In 2011 we set out to reshape the Company. We recognised that 
revenue was likely to shrink as we improved the quality of our 
earnings. Navigating through the replacement of legacy business 
with new has presented timing challenges, in particular in 2014. We 
have had disappointments, for example in not winning the re-bid for 
the New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract in Australia, 
and the CMA Phase 2 referral for the Agencyport Europe acquisition.
*
 
Xuber contracts are taking longer to secure than we originally 
anticipated. 
However we have now completed our transformation process. Our 
BPS business has substantially exited all the legacy business that did 
not fit our future strategy and will see the last of this run off in 2015. 
T echnology has also made good progress exiting its legacy portfolio 
and reshaping the business, although we must wait for the CMA 
outcome to know if we can look forward to the benefits of the 
Agencyport Europe acquisition.
*
 Procurement is now remodelled 
and already demonstrating significant sales agility. 
Chief Executive’s report and Market review
continued
MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED
INSURANCE SOFTWARE
The market is characterised by the need to overcome the 
constraints of legacy systems while reducing operational costs and 
expanding technology use into areas like mobile and analytics.
iv
 
Property and casualty (‘P&C’) insurers are facing particular 
competitive pressures. Many drivers for change are internal, 
including the need for greater operational efficiency, lower cost 
of maintenance and the imperative of combining new technologies 
such as mobile and analytics effectively with old software systems. 
Externally, primary catalysts are growing regulatory requirements 
and an increasingly global and consolidated competitive 
landscape.
Ken Lever reflects, “We have anticipated the dynamics which are 
accelerating the requirements for legacy replacement and have made 
investments to develop a best-in-class Insurance Software business, 
Xuber . Xuber provides an end-to-end modular product suite targeted 
at the global complex P&C insurance market, a market where 
Xchanging has a strong history and a wealth of domain expertise. ”
The market for industry-specific insurance software requires 
insurance industry expertise, a global reach to mimic the 
multinational operations of insurance providers, and investment 
to develop the software itself. Many large insurance companies 
have established an international presence by acquisition and 
are increasingly looking to standardise software solutions across 
their organisation. 
The software functionality required for the nuanced London Market 
has historically resulted in global insurance companies 
implementing additional software alongside that for the rest of 
their operations, where functional requirements are more limited. 
Providers must offer a global solution that addresses this scope of 
needs. Xuber achieves this, with a single, componentised solution. 
A recognised brand for global complex commercial P&C insurance 
software, Xuber specifically targets this marketplace. It is in order 
to build our capabilities here that Xchanging made the acquisitions 
of T otal Objects and Agencyport Europe
*
 during 2014. 
Ken Lever comments that “The acquisition of T otal Objects will 
accelerate Xchanging’s insurance strategy in London and globally , 
providing potential synergies with Xuber . The combination of 
Xchanging’s Binder 360 solution and T otal Object’s BinderCloud 
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129 21
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 
Our objective remains to develop higher value offerings that help 
customers achieve their desired business outcomes, rather than 
simply offering discrete processing services. Our three business 
segments together provide a range of offerings that, through 
technology, are increasingly bound together . This is evidenced  
by the growing level of cross-selling we are achieving. 
The new Xchanging shape is clearer now. We have a core Business 
Processing Services business, built on significant depth of expertise 
in the complex areas of the Insurance and Financial Services sectors. 
The business offers lower risk, predictable revenue with good 
margins, moderate growth, and strong cash generation. Currently 
this represents the majority of our business.
Coupled with BPS, our T echnology and Procurement businesses, offer 
the potential for higher growth and margin expansion. Both of these 
businesses have been going through significant transformation and 
carry higher risk profiles than our BPS business. They also have the 
potential to rebalance our overall business significantly in the future.
will provide insurers with greater efficiency and data accuracy . 
We recognise the importance of driving value and insight from 
data and will continue to add value to our customers by providing 
technology-enabled solutions to drive knowledge creation. ”
APPLICATION SERVICES
T echnology markets are changing rapidly. The size of the 
worldwide IT Services market is estimated at US$648 billion with 
a compound annual growth rate (‘CAGR’) of 4.7% between 2012 
and 2017.
vi
 T raditionally, this market has been suited to large 
technology providers benefiting from economies of scale and 
operating on transactional processing models. The marketplace 
for large enterprise software systems supports demand in an 
adjoining market, for customisation of those systems, integration 
and maintenance. As the technology market moves towards a 
more agile and flexible model, new opportunities are presenting 
themselves for specialist best-in-class providers. Services are often 
provided on an outcome based model.
Ken Lever considers that “We have found ways of carving out a niche 
for ourselves where we are able to bring value to our customers and 
sell technology-enablement as a service or as technology itself . 
The large application services market allows many companies 
with differentiated offerings to participate and still have a healthy 
business in this marketplace. ”
Enterprises are increasingly demanding an ‘unbundling’ of 
services, giving rise to a market for dedicated providers. Nimble 
approaches to application services are requisite in a world where 
the norm is constant technological change. Companies are 
re-examining their engagement with technology, demanding 
greater IT agility. The result: a sharp shift towards simple, modular , 
custom apps.
vii
 
Ken Lever comments “We look to provide differentiated, technology-
enabled capabilities which we combine with our deep industry 
expertise in our target markets, keeping us relevant and critical to our 
customers’ IT environments. Our Application Services business is 
important for Xchanging as a whole – it provides a technology 
backbone that helps us supplement and support the entire Xchanging 
business with a source of knowledge, skills and capabilities that we 
can use to drive innovation. ” 
“Basic business processing based  
around people has commoditised and 
customers are looking further for value. ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 22
Chief Executive’s report and Market review
continued
MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED
PROCUREMENT
The Procurement Outsourcing (‘PO’) market reached nearly 
US$2 billion in 2014 and has a forecast CAGR of 10. 4% to 2018.
viii
 
Within this expanding market, Xchanging was recognised by 
industry analysts Everest Group as a ‘Leader’ and a ‘Star 
Performer’ for the second consecutive year .
ix
 
Ken Lever reflects, “ As in the wider BPS market, the PO market is 
now well established. Procurement has evolved and is now perceived 
as a ‘value focused’ activity as well as a ‘cost focused’ activity . 
Examples of ‘out-tasking’ have emerged, of which MM4 is a good 
example. eSourcing is not disruptive to companies’ existing 
infrastructure. Rather than investing to develop in-house capabilities, 
this very specific operation is increasingly ‘out-tasked’. This shift 
has made investment in technology an imperative. ”
Everest Group have established that partnerships between 
procurement vendors and technology firms are the preferred 
way for service providers to deliver technology-enablement to 
their customers. However , there is a potential weakness in this 
approach. Multiple service providers using the same technology 
vendors can lead to undifferentiated solutions, resulting in the 
erosion of PO providers’ competitive edge.
x
 
As technology becomes increasingly central to PO delivery, 
Xchanging has differentiated itself by obtaining intellectual 
property in technology capabilities. This includes acquiring 
MM4 (in 2013), Spikes Cavell (in February 2015) and developing 
proprietary in-house solutions, including a savings tracker , now 
incorporated within the MM4 platform. 
The maturing PO market and increasing vendor technology 
capabilities have given rise to a market for Tail-end Spend 
Management (‘TSM’). The ‘tail-end’ of a procurement 
department’s spend refers to the 20% of non-core transactions 
that typically go unmanaged. The 20% ‘tail’ is often made up of 
a large number of ‘one-off’ or low volume purchases from 
multiple suppliers that are difficult to source cost-effectively if 
in-house resources and processes are limited. Service providers 
are typically able to achieve incremental savings of 15-17% of the 
customer’s cost base
xi
 using technology to enhance sourcing 
effectiveness. T o do this effectively requires strong technology 
capabilities, scale efficiencies, a track record of sourcing and 
credible supplier relationships. Service providers in TSM today 
have an early mover advantage to establishing best practice 
strategies and strong reputations in a new PO market segment. 
Ken Lever believes Xchanging’s established position in PO 
means we are well placed to address the new TSM market: 
“Xchanging’s technology capabilities and agile delivery model 
are uniquely suited to this new marketplace and we have several 
customers for whom we already provide T ail-end Spend 
Management services. ”
SUMMARY
Ken Lever summarises, “Xchanging looks to position itself in 
markets that are attractive and where we have differentiated 
offerings and the organisational capabilities that allow us to 
compete to win. It is against this backdrop that our strategy , 
outlined on page 10, has been built. ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 23
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
Technology Procurement BPS
T echnology
Xchanging IP
T echnology-enabled
Third party IP or Xchanging IP
Customer
platform
Customer Customer 
‘Big T’ ‘Little t’
TECHNOLOGY-ENABLEMENT
OUTLOOK
In 2014 the ‘new Xchanging’ emerged.
An enormous amount of work has been accomplished over the last 
four years to reshape the business. We are clear about our strategy 
(see page 10). We are no longer pursuing major business process 
outsourcing contracts. This market is commoditising in the absence 
of technology and organisations are increasingly looking to automation 
or to returning activity in-house. The potential for the growth we seek is 
no longer available in that arena.
T o address the future market we have re-defined and focused our 
range of higher value offerings, based around technology, both in 
its own right and as an enabler and differentiator , and driven by 
innovation and insight into our markets.
In the first half of 2015, our T echnology business will be hampered 
by the CMA review of our Agencyport Europe acquisition* and the 
longer than expected Xuber sales cycle. However , Xchanging has 
undoubtedly turned a corner . We have repositioned the Company 
and in 2015 we will devote our resources to proving our technology 
strategy and demonstrating renewed revenue and profit growth.
KEN LEVER 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
26 February 2015
References
i Everest Group: Rising Anti-Incumbency in Outsourcing – Breaking Up is Not Hard to Do, 
October 2014
ii Horses for Sources: The state of services and outsourcing in 2014, October 2014
iii Horses for Sources: Closing the Innovation Gap in Insurance Operations, April 2014
iv Everest Group: Banking and Financial Services (BFS) BPO Annual Report 2014 – Low 
on Growth, High on Regulations – BFS BPO Adapts to the “New Normal”, August 2014
v Celent: IT Spending in Insurance: A Global Perspective, April 2014
vi Horses for Sources: Outsourcing is Dead, Long Live Outsourcing!, June 2013
vii Accenture: Every Business is a Digital Business: From Digitally Disrupted to Digital 
Disrupter, 2014
viii Nelson Hall: Procurement BPO Market Forecast: 2014 – 2018, August 2014
ix Everest Group: Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Annual Report: Expanding 
New Horizons, June 2014 
x Everest Group: Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Service Provider Landscape 
with PEAK Matrix™ Assessment 2014, September 2014
xi Everest Group: Betting on Tail Spend to Save Coin, March 2014
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129
