 Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 06
 2 01 5 is the year  
we prove ourselves 
Chairman’s statement
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
In last year’s annual report I said that the new Xchanging 
was clearly starting to emerge. The last four years have been 
spent working to transform the Company according to a new 
business model (see page 8) and to position it as a strong 
competitor in its chosen markets. 2014 was another year of 
intense activity as the new Xchanging took further shape as 
a business technology and services provider . 
First and foremost, we took a number of organic and 
inorganic steps in pursuit of our strategy of putting 
technology at the core of our business. We further simplified 
the Company’s structure. In Germany we drew to a close 
another legacy Enterprise Partnership, giving us direct 
control and full enjoyment of the benefits of future growth. 
We have made good progress addressing customer 
concentration and are starting to see the balance of 
smaller customers grow.
GEOFF UNWIN  
CHAIRMAN
“2014 was another year of intense 
activity and the new Xchanging 
took further shape as a business 
technology and services provider . ” Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 07
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PEOPLE
Once again in 2014 we made challenging demands of our 
employees, and once again they have responded with dedication 
and enthusiasm. After a strong improvement last year , it was very 
encouraging to see another good response to our annual employee 
engagement survey in 2014. The results showed particularly strong 
engagement with our Values initiatives and Awards programme and 
with the Company’s objectives (see more on page 40). 
Although cultural change is challenging and takes time, especially in 
a Company undergoing significant transformation, it is clear that the 
new ‘One Xchanging’ culture is steadily taking root. I would like to 
thank all our employees for their continuing support and hard work 
without which we would not have been able to make the progress we 
have in such a short space of time. 
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS AND DIVIDENDS
After a strong +23% performance in 2013, and a further 20% rise 
by autumn 2014, the share price ended the year flat. This was 
disappointing. We believe the Competition and Markets Authority 
(‘CMA’) decision towards the end of the year to refer the Agencyport 
Europe
*
 acquisition for a Phase 2 review has had an impact.
We have felt and, in the first half of 2015, will continue to feel the 
negative effects of the demands the CMA review process places 
upon the Company’s resources, and on our ability to win new 
business in the insurance software market. We cannot predict the 
outcome of the review, expected mid-2015, however we remain 
confident that our own assessment at the time we made the 
acquisition in July 2014, showing no competition issues, was sound.
Given the year’s performance, sales success in 2014 and the growth 
prospects for the business in 2015, the Board feels it is appropriate 
to recommend raising the dividend by 0.25 pence to 2.75 pence.
FUTURE
After four exacting years, we have completed the re-shaping of the 
Company and have positioned it for a resumption of revenue and 
profit growth in 2015. We have a much stronger senior management 
team and have started to demonstrate our ability to sell effectively. 
We are closer to our customers and are using the insights we gain 
to raise the value of the services we provide to them. 
Much still remains to be done, and in 2015 our challenge will be to 
prove ourselves and demonstrate absolute growth in the business. 
Our focus will remain on developing and deploying our sales 
capabilities; on stimulating and harnessing innovation; and on putting 
technology at our core. Having resolved the majority of our legacy 
issues, simplified the business, continued to progress our strategy 
and invested in strong offerings with improved sales capability, 2015 
is the year we prove ourselves.
GEOFF UNWIN 
CHAIRMAN 
26 February 2015
CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION AND MARGIN 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
£million %
CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION AND MARGIN
 Revenues from customer contracts greater than £10 million
 2011 2012 2013 2014
 Revenues from customer contracts less than £10 million
 Margin on net revenue     
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Critically, building on the work of 2013, our sales and marketing 
capability has gained momentum. We focused on putting our 
resources behind a prioritised range of offerings and were more 
selective about the sales opportunities that we pursued. The benefits 
are starting to show. Management changes have re-energised parts 
of our business, notably in Procurement and Application Services, 
and investment in a more efficient infrastructure is evidenced by the 
reduction in our operating cost.
We said in last year’s annual report that we expected 2014 to be a 
challenging year . We rose to the challenge, achieving our objectives 
of matching 2013 profitability, making up the additional ground from 
business exited in 2013, and positioning the Company for growth in 
2015. We had our disappointments: Xuber contracts have proved 
slower to crystallise than we expected; the Agencyport Europe
*
 
acquisition was referred for CMA Phase 2 review; and we did not 
win the New South Wales Workers’ Compensation contract re-bid. 
Despite these, we achieved a commendable performance in a 
demanding year . We have concluded the year having met our 
financial objectives and having also further shaped the business 
in line with our strategic aims (you can read more on these themes 
in the Chief Executive’s report on page 18).
BOARD
Our current Board composition has been in place for two years. This 
period of stability has enabled Board members to develop a deeper 
understanding of the Company and its operations. In turn, this has 
brought continuity to the Board’s strategic thinking at a critical and 
demanding period in Xchanging’s development.
The benefits these factors are bringing to overall Board performance 
were reflected in the first external assessment which was conducted 
during the year . Other factors included the satisfactory resolution of 
legacy issues and stronger relationships between Board members. 
We have welcomed a number of new people at Executive Board and 
senior management levels. The appointments are a further measure 
of the transformation of our businesses, and an integral part of our 
repositioning for renewed growth in refocused markets.
* 
The Agencyport Europe acquisition is currently under review by the Competition and Markets Authority .  
All Agencyport Europe companies acquired by Xchanging have now been rebranded as Xchanging Software. Please see note 29 on page 129
