 TECHNOLOGY PROCUREMENT
BUSINESS  
PROCESSING 
SERVICES
Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 04
Xchanging at a glance
 Putting technology  
 at our core
BUSINESS PROCESSING 
SERVICES
USING TECHNOLOGY TO ENHANCE THE 
VALUE OF BUSINESS PROCESSING SERVICES
We manage complex back and middle office processes enabling 
customers to focus on the growth of their core businesses. T o 
support our customers, we offer flexible solutions supported by 
domain expertise and, increasingly, by innovative technology. 
T echnology is changing the approach our customers take to their 
own markets: digitalisation is a significant driver . 
We help customers address these sometimes ‘disruptive’ challenges 
and opportunities, including linking their digital and legacy 
environments by using technology-enabled processes. 
Whilst we have particular domain strength in the P&C Insurance 
and Banking and Capital Markets industries, we have customers in 
a variety of industries, including: Private Equity, Construction & Real 
Estate, Manufacturing, Retail & Distribution, Healthcare and the 
Public Sector . Our depth of insight into our customers’ markets and 
into their individual businesses enables us to provide differentiated 
innovative industry and customer-specific solutions in response to 
new challenges. Our delivery locations across 11 countries allow us to 
offer solutions that are delivered from on, near and offshore centres 
as well as across multiple geographies to address our customers’ 
processing challenges and add value to their businesses (see the 
Business review on pages 28 to 29). Xchanging plc Annual Report 2014 05
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
PROCUREMENT
WRAPPING SERVICES AROUND A CORE 
TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM
Our Procurement business remains a global leader in its field
*
. 
Across 48 countries we employ over 900 procurement specialists 
who, every year , manage over £13 billion of spend and help 
improve customers’ business profits by up to 30%. This global 
reach and strength of industry expertise allows us to add value 
to a wide range of businesses. 
Our Procurement business has been significantly repositioned 
in 2014 following the acquisition of MM4 in September 2013. The 
acquisition enabled us to put technology at the centre of our 
procurement offerings. MM4 can now be offered as technology in its 
own right, via a stand-alone licence to the MM4 platform; and as part 
of a newly re-focused set of four technology-enabled procurement 
services: Procurement Outsourcing (‘PO’), Software-as-a-Service 
(‘SaaS’), Procurement-as-a-Service (‘PaaS’) and Tail-end Spend 
Management (‘TSM’). In February 2015 we announced a further 
procurement technology acquisition, Spikes Cavell, to complete 
the procurement technology platform.
The broadening of our offerings to span simple and low cost entry 
point SaaS licences through to complex technology-enabled 
services is allowing us to build our customer base more rapidly. 
We are also building our leadership position in the TSM market, 
addressing the 20% of organisations’ spend that typically goes 
unmanaged (see the Market review on page 18 and the Business 
review on pages 32 to 33).
TECHNOLOGY
PROVIDING ENABLING TECHNOLOGY  
FOR CUSTOMERS’ BUSINESSES
T echnology is at the core of everything we do at Xchanging,  
but it is also a business in its own right. We employ over 2,000 
technology professionals including project management teams, 
testing staff, solutions architects and software developers.
Constantly innovating, Xchanging uses its market insight and 
understanding of its customers to help them to maintain a 
competitive edge in the face of rapid industry and technology 
developments. We are investing significantly in our capabilities to 
bring technology to the market either directly, for example in the 
form of software licences, or through technology-enablement of 
business processing services that we provide. Within our Application 
Services business, we build, test and support software applications 
for customers, many of whom are global leaders in their own field 
(see the Business review on pages 30 to 31).
OUR PEOPLE
At the end of 2014 we had over 7 ,400 employees 
globally. Our employees are spread across our global 
offices including the UK, India, the US, continental 
Europe, South East Asia and Australia. 
We actively promote adoption of Xchanging’s Values 
across our global Company in a number of ways. The 
2014 employee engagement survey showed that 88% 
of employees apply these values in the way they work 
(see page 40 for more information on the survey). This 
is a very encouraging step towards achieving ‘One 
Xchanging’ (see page 10 – Our strategic objectives).
*
Everest Group: Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Annual Report 2014: Expanding New Horizons, June 2014
370
102.3
54.1
282.4
93.1
31.3
2014 2013
NET REVENUE (£million)
 Business Processing Services
 T echnology
 Procurement
59.7
9.2
1.8
64.1
6.8
(2.5)
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (£million)
 Business Processing Services
 T echnology
 Procurement
16.1
9.0
3.3
22.7
7.3
(8.0)
2014 2013
ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN (%)
 Business Processing Services
 T echnology
 Procurement
