 03
Chairman’s statement 
Technology-enablement and constant innovation,  
not just cost effectiveness, are vital if we are to  
win business and ensure that customer satisfaction 
remains high.
02
 X changi ng plc 
Annual report 2012
wo years ago, in 2011, we 
evaluated Xchanging’s portfolio 
of businesses in order to 
understand intrinsic value, 
identify underperforming assets 
and assess how best to redefine our strategy. 
We also recognised that significant work had  
to be done to regain the confidence and trust  
of some of our customers. 
Our aim was to re-energise the business and 
unlock value for shareholders in a company whose 
business model and strategy had not kept pace 
with market developments and which, frankly, in 
some instances, had lost touch with its customers.  
The business was also too complex for its size. 
Last year we were able to report good progress 
implementing the outcome of that assessment.
This year we pressed on with the next stage  
of our turnaround plan, continuing the 
reshaping of our business portfolio, putting  
the foundations for sustainable growth and 
value creation in place and, most importantly, 
listening and responding to our customers. 
The sound financial performance for the year 
and the steadily growing flow of new business 
wins in the second half indicates that we are 
moving in the right direction. 
Strategic progress
Our turnaround process is well under way.  
The optimisation of our business assets sees 
Xchanging in much better shape. Many of the 
issues we faced have been dealt with, and this 
year, most notably, we have resolved the 
strategic future of our Italian business.  
However, more still needs to be done.
Our strategic planning is fundamentally driven 
by the fact that we must increase the value  
of our offerings and improve their propensity  
to become embedded in our customers’ 
processes. Technology-enablement and 
constant innovation, not just cost effectiveness, 
are vital if we are to win business and ensure 
that customer satisfaction remains high. 
T 03
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Company overview 01-15
The innovation vision 
 Inspiring innovation by challenging the status 
quo and approaching our business with 
creativity, fresh ideas, lateral thinking and  
a commitment to the way we do things.
This was reflected during the year in the 
appointment of new Heads of Innovation and  
of Technology, the introduction of the new role 
of Chief Information Officer and the signing  
of a joint venture with our customer YTL 
Communications Sdn. Bhd. (“YTL ”) in Malaysia.  
Following new appointments, we now also have 
significant technology expertise at Board level. 
Board
There have been a number of changes to the 
composition of the Board during 2012. In May, 
after a long period of illness, Pat O’Driscoll 
stepped down from the Board, and sadly 
passed away shortly afterwards. We would  
like to note the valuable contribution Pat  
made during her tenure. 
In July, Stephen Wilson joined the Board as  
a Non-executive Director and in August he 
became Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
taking over from Dennis Millard. 
In September, Saurabh Srivastava joined the 
Board as a Non-executive Director and Dennis 
Millard stepped down to enable him to move  
at short notice to be Executive Chairman at 
Halfords plc. 
I would like to thank Dennis Millard for his 
dedicated service to Xchanging, particularly 
through some difficult times. 
In October, Ian Cormack joined the Board as  
a Non-executive Director and was appointed 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director. 
I believe the Board and its newly constituted 
committees now have the appropriate balance 
of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge necessary for the long-term success 
of Xchanging, and its challenge to drive the 
regeneration of profitable growth in the next 
phase of our development. 
People
It has been another year of change in the 
make-up of our leadership team, at both  
Board and Executive levels (see pages 53 to 60). 
We have significantly increased the talent to 
execute our strategy, drive the pursuit of growing 
economic value and, crucially, improve 
relationships with our customers and the  
value we provide to them.
We have reviewed our remuneration structure  
to ensure our leadership is motivated to succeed, 
and that incentives are linked to the right 
measures of value creation. You can read  
more about this on pages 61 to 69.
Any service organisation is only as good as its 
people. Once again this year, I would like to thank 
all our employees who have worked so hard and  
in such a dedicated way to drive our plans forward. 
It has been a year of building foundations for  
future growth and it was gratifying that the two 
management ‘Business Week India’ conferences, 
held in February and October, showed such a high 
level of enthusiasm and energy.
Dividend
The year was more rewarding for investors  
with the share price, which almost doubled, 
reflecting growing confidence in our business 
prospects and the impact of our turnaround 
plan on the intrinsic value of the business.  
The Board has duly considered whether the 
time is right to re-introduce the dividend. 
After due consideration, the Board is pleased  
to recommend a dividend of 1 pence per share. 
This reinstatement of the dividend reflects 
progress to date, the significantly healthier 
financial condition of the company and its  
cash generation capabilities.
Future
Looking forward, we are focusing our resources 
on what we do best, positioning ourselves 
strategically in markets where we can compete 
most effectively, continuing to listen and 
innovate, and to simplify the business. 2013 will 
be dedicated to increasing the momentum we 
started to see in the second half of 2012. 
Geoff Unwin, Chairman 
28 February 2013
Our innovation vision in action
Encourages individuals to bring forward innovative 
ideas to Xchanging management, who will be able 
to invest in bringing the idea to fruition.
Provides an independent entrepreneurial 
framework and capital investment for early stage 
ideas, concepts and companies to develop into 
flourishing businesses.
Creates an innovation culture throughout the 
business to improve key operations and services 
within Xchanging, as well as for the end  
customer. Successful ideas will be rolled  
out to other parts of the business.
“Ken’s Den”
The  
Incubator
Service Innovation 
