 16
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 17
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
We have made good progress and have started to  
see the benefits, with much higher levels of interest  
in our offerings, the award of new contracts and  
the successful renewal of existing ones.
Objectives for 2012
1. 
 Compete to win
 
  See page 17
2.   Increase revenue from  
existing customers
 
  See page 18
3.  Achieve ‘One Xchanging’
 
  See page 19
4. 
 Year-on-year improvement  
in financial performance
 
  See page 20 17
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
wenty twelve was a year  
in which we restored the 
confidence in Xchanging  
of our shareholders, our 
employees, our customers  
and our partners. It was a year in which we  
got fit again and demonstrated our ability  
to compete to win. Moreover, it was a year  
in which we built a foundation for the future  
of the business and delivered year-on-year 
improvement in financial performance. 
In a year of intense activity we made good 
progress. At the beginning of the year we set 
out our four objectives for the year, and said  
our performance for the period should be 
judged against these. I can now report on  
what we have achieved.
Compete to win
From a low base historically it has been 
paramount to build our sales and marketing 
capability. Under the new global sales and 
marketing leadership of Stephen Scott (see 
pages 48 to 49), we are much more customer 
and market focused. 
We reviewed and consolidated our product and 
service offerings to provide focus for our 
customers, our account directors and our 
growing sales force. Amongst other marketing 
collateral developed, our newly defined service 
offerings have been incorporated into a sales 
and marketing mobile application, harnessing 
technology to improve delivery. 
Early in the year we established a ‘Bid Factory’ 
based in India which has reduced the time taken 
to respond to Requests for Proposals (‘RFPs’) 
considerably whilst improving the quality and 
consistency of our documentation. The Bid 
Factory also provides research information, 
competitor analysis and supports the 
development of service solutions.
We developed an account management group 
and a system to nurture, and where necessary 
rebuild, existing relationships and to develop new 
relationships in a methodical way. We introduced 
Salesforce.com to track and cross reference sales 
activity. Sales pipeline information is now 
available in real time to senior management. 
Our Third Party Adviser (“TPA”)  programme  
is now well established, and has driven the 
increased flow of RFPs into Xchanging. We are 
continuing to develop this channel to market.
These measures have started to have an  
effect, and during the year we won a number 
of new contracts, which I refer to in the 
Business Sector Review. Although many are 
small or medium sized, these demonstrate our 
ability to compete successfully. Experience 
shows that strong customer relationships can 
grow from the initial small contracts. Most 
importantly, we are seeing a much higher level 
of interest and RFPs across all our businesses 
than was previously the case. This suggests  
our renewed focus on sales and marketing is 
bearing fruit. 
Grow revenue from existing customers
Last year we recognised that we have been 
missing growth opportunities by not 
assiduously developing valuable existing 
customer relationships. The sales and marketing 
activity I describe above has supported our 
efforts here. 
However, to generate new business with 
existing customers we must innovate, bringing 
fresh ideas and ways to add value to our 
customers’ businesses. During 2012 we  
put greater focus on ‘Inspiring Innovation’, 
developing channels to stimulate and  
capture innovative thinking (see page 3). We 
established a cross-company Innovation Group, 
holding an ‘Innovation Olympics’ mid-year  
and rolling out the first ‘Ken’s Den’ innovation 
competition. The response has been very 
encouraging and we have taken a first set  
of ideas into development. 
T
1.  
Compete to win
Under the new global sales and 
marketing leadership of Stephen 
Scott (see pages 48 to 49), we are 
much more customer and market 
focused. These measures have 
started to have an effect and during 
the year we won a number of new 
contracts. Experience shows that 
strong customer relationships can 
grow from the initial small contracts. 
Most importantly, we are seeing a 
much higher level of interest and 
RFPs across all our businesses than 
was previously the case. This suggests  
our renewed focus on sales and 
marketing is bearing fruit.
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information
Adjusted operating profit margin 
(%)
 Insurance Services  19.0
 Technology 9.7
 Financial Services 6.5
 Procurement and Other BPO 3.8
  18
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 19
Other opportunities to grow business with existing 
customers lie in cross-selling, since the collective 
spectrum of our offerings are relevant to the vast 
majority of medium to large scale businesses. 
To cross-sell successfully we must behave as 
‘One Xchanging’. I talk more about this below. 
Of the supporting practical measures  
we introduced this year, our new Account 
Management programme provides a structure 
for routinely exploring new sales opportunities 
within existing relationships; and our marketing 
mobile application provides our sales force with 
both a mobile database on our offerings and 
subject matter experts, and a prompter to 
ensure opportunities are not missed. 
One Xchanging
Many multi-faceted businesses suffer from ‘silo 
mentality’. We recognised the need to break 
down silo barriers, to drive business growth 
through collaborative working and business 
efficiencies, to optimise innovative thinking  
and promote a good working environment  
for employees. 
We started by introducing our six corporate 
values last year (see page 44), and during 2012 
we have continued to promote these in all we 
do. Group wide initiatives such as ‘Values 
Months’ have helped individual employees 
work through what each value means to them 
in their role. At our two internal conferences, 
Business Week India 1 in February and Business 
Week India 2 in October, awards were 
presented to employees who have shown 
excellence in ‘Living the Values’.
Our efforts have been underpinned in a very 
pragmatic way by the introduction at the year 
end of a pilot Enterprise Social Network. Named 
‘Leapfrog’ for its potential contribution to our 
business efficiencies, this platform facilitates 
communication, collaborative working and 
knowledge sharing, right across the company. 
Cultural change takes time; but we have made  
a good start and we are seeing the mantra 
 ‘One Xchanging’ being translated into 
behaviours. Our 2011 ‘Changing Xchanging’ 
programme led to ‘Xchanging is Changing’  
in 2012. 
Entering 2013 we have launched ‘Going for 
Gold’. This is a programme of six work streams 
designed to support achievement of our 
business objectives: year-on-year improvement 
in financial performance; increased sales to 
existing customers; compete to win increased 
sales to new customers. 
Based on ‘One Xchanging’ teamwork, the work 
streams focus on: differentiating our service 
offering through innovation; world class selling 
and customer engagement; creating an 
organisation with customer focus built around 
our industry sectors and our service lines, which 
will ensure all our capabilities can be taken to 
market; developing talent for the future; 
enhancing our competitive edge by establishing 
shared services, optimising cost of delivery 
through standardisation and simplification,  
and enhancing provision of management 
information for decision-making; and the 
simplification and standardisation of internal  
IT processes and systems.
The Going for Gold programme will continue  
to hone our business, aiming to make the way 
we operate leaner, more efficient and more 
productive whilst we focus on delivering 
innovative offerings to customers.
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
continued
“ Our markets are evolving. We  
are increasingly providing higher  
margin, technology-enabled  
business processing services.”
2. 
 Increase revenue from 
existing customers
To generate new business with 
existing customers we must 
innovate, bringing fresh ideas and 
ways to add value to our customers’ 
businesses. During 2012 we put 
greater focus on ‘Inspiring 
Innovation’, developing channels  
to stimulate and capture innovative 
thinking (see page 3). Other 
opportunities to grow business with 
existing customers lie in cross-selling, 
since the collective spectrum of our 
offerings are relevant to the vast 
majority of medium to large scale 
businesses. To cross-sell successfully 
we must behave as ‘One Xchanging’.
Adjusted revenue 
(£million)
 
  668.3
650.0
2012
2011
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information 19
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Year-on-year improvement  
in financial performance
Year-on-year improvements in revenue, profit, 
cash flow and return on invested capital have 
been achieved in challenging markets. With 
our focus on building our sales and marketing 
infrastructure, developing our position with 
the TPA channels and on our new integrated 
sales platform, our pipeline has been steadily 
strengthening and we have started to see the 
benefits through the second half of the year. 
As set out at the beginning of the year, profit 
growth has been supported by sustaining the 
cost reductions achieved in 2011. 
Business sector review
Business Processing Services
a) Insurance Services
Our insurance business had a good year,  
with higher volumes in the UK market, good 
progress winning new customers, and an 
increased market share granted to our 
Australian State of Victoria contract. Developing 
our US strategy around the existing Xuber 
customer base has meant costs have been  
kept under control as we enter that market.
As the London Market Modernisation 
programme moved forward, we continued  
to work closely with the Lloyd’s and London 
market. We believe we have demonstrated  
the strength of our business processing and 
technology capabilities and the integrity of our 
trusted partner status, as evidenced by winning 
a five year £65.5 million contract to continue 
providing the IMR  service, previously an  
annual contract. 
We also won accreditation as one of the two 
Lloyd’s market Volume Claims Providers and, 
towards the year end, the contract to develop 
Lloyd’s market Claims Reporting Suite. The 
publication of high level Governance Principles 
mid-year placed us firmly at the centre of the 
service provisioning process for the Lloyd’s 
market going forward. 
More recently, the announcement that the 
Darwin project – the part of the Market 
Modernisation programme relating to the 
provision of central services – is being replaced 
with the more evolutionary Central Services 
Review has provided further, significant 
reassurance of Xchanging’s position. 
Two new products were launched. In October, 
our insurance software suite was re-launched 
under the brand name ‘Xuber’ – this is reported 
below under Technology. 
We also launched a pilot for our new global  
net settlement service, ‘Netsett’ (see page 21). 
Primarily aimed at the global insurance market, 
Netsett is also suitable for other settings such  
as large global enterprises where high volumes  
of two-way intra-party settlements are being 
made daily. In December, we launched a live 
Netsett pilot with RSA, the multi-national 
insurance company.
To support the protection and growth of our 
existing London insurance business we 
established a dedicated product and service 
development function. In February 2013,  
this team introduced a mobile application, 
‘X-presso’, linked to our Electronic Claims File 
database for agents and brokers, enabling 
mobile data loading and viewing.
We won a number of industry awards, 
including the Insurance Day’s London Market 
Technological Initiative of the Year Award (for 
our work on the Electronic Claims File), Treasury 
Today’s Adam Smith Award for ‘One to Watch’ 
(for Netsett) and Post Magazine’s Major Loss 
Award (for our handling of claims in the 
Japanese earthquake aftermath).
In Australia we won the Top Performing Agent 
Award in the State of Victoria. This contract 
continues to perform well, winning the grant  
of additional market share.  The New South 
Wales contract has been profitable but  
remains challenging. 
3.  
Achieve  
‘One Xchanging’
Entering 2013 we have launched 
‘Going for Gold’. Based on ‘One 
Xchanging’ teamwork, the work 
streams focus on: differentiating our 
service offering through innovation; 
world class selling and customer 
engagement; creating an 
organisation with customer focus 
built around our industry sectors and 
our service lines which will ensure  
all our capabilities can be taken to 
market; developing talent for the 
future; enhancing our competitive 
edge by establishing shared services; 
optimising cost of delivery through 
standardisation and simplification, 
and enhancing provision of 
management information for 
decision-making; and the 
simplification and standardisation  
of internal IT processes and systems.
External adjusted revenue 
(£m)
 Procurement and Other BPO 209.0
 Insurance Services 197.5
 Financial Services 163
 Technology 98.8
 
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information
Business review 16-45 20
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 21
During the year we also won an extension  
to our contract with Crawford. Our aim is to 
pursue more business in the self-insured market.
In December, we appointed a new  
Executive Director for Insurance Services,  
Adrian Guttridge (see pages 48 to 49). 
b) Financial Services 
The Financial Services business performance 
was flat as cost control measures, particularly  
in Xchanging Transaction Bank, GmbH (“XTB”), 
offset the impact of the weak securities  
market volumes. In our FdB operations, we  
continued to balance core activity for Allianz 
Global Investors with new customers, which 
now account for approximately half the 
business’s revenue. 
We continued to build a broader base to our 
Financial Services business, serviced from our 
Indian operations, with the second half of the year 
continuing to add new customers. We have also 
started to establish a financial services presence in 
Spain, building on the initial Xchanging footprint 
established there in 2011 to service the L’Oréal 
procurement contract won that year.
In November, we announced the acquisition  
by our Italian subsidiary Kedrios of securities 
market software company AR (see page 23). 
AR provides Kedrios with important 
technology, and the combined business will 
have a leading position in the Italian market. 
The transaction accelerates our plan to bring 
Kedrios to profitability and resolves the 
strategic challenge to this operation. It also 
means we no longer have any loss making 
businesses. The two businesses formally 
merged under the new name, Xchanging  
Italy S.p.A., in January 2013.  
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
continued
c) Enterprise Services (business sectors 
other than Insurance Services and  
Financial Services)
We continued to build our customer base in  
the other industry sectors we serve, both 
internationally and in the growing domestic 
Indian market. Contract wins included a UK 
transport company and a national ministry  
of education.
July saw the formal opening of our new global 
delivery centre in Shimoga, Karnataka. Located 
in a Special Enterprise Zone, this centre forms 
part of our strategy to sustain our ability to offer 
lower cost offshore processing capabilities. 
Seating nearly 600 employees by the end of  
the year, the facility has a capacity of 1,000. 
Technology
Our Technology business made steady progress 
in 2012. The Application Management Services 
business (formerly ‘Information Technology 
Outsourcing’) returned to profit and our 
Software business benefited from encouraging 
early interest in the newly launched Xuber 
insurance software products.
At the beginning of the year we appointed 
Andrew Binns as Executive Director,  
Technology (see pages 48 to 49). During 2012  
we reshaped the business, with the primary  
focus being to accelerate completion of the 
development and launch of our insurance 
software suite of four products. This was done 
in October under the brand name ‘Xuber’  
(see page 23). 
The Xuber products will sit at the core of the 
insurance offering we provide in the UK as well 
as in markets we are developing outside the  
UK, namely the US and Bermuda.
We have won a number of technology  
contracts with new customers, including  
Visa, and some substantial new business with 
existing customers, including Gatwick Airport.
Adjusted operating margin 
(%)
 
  7.5
6.6
2012
2011
4.  
Year-on-year 
improvement in 
financial performance
Year-on-year improvement in 
revenue, profit, cash flow and  
return on invested capital have been 
achieved in challenging markets.  
With our focus on building our  
sales and marketing infrastructure, 
developing our position with the 
Third Party Adviser channels and on 
our new integrated sales platform, 
our pipeline has been steadily 
strengthening and we have started  
to see the benefits through the 
second half of the year. As set out  
at the beginning of the year, profit 
growth has been supported by 
sustaining the cost reductions 
achieved in 201 1.
   See pages 36 to 43 for more information 21
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Our Application Management Services  
business based in India, the UK, Singapore  
and Malaysia performed much better following 
some reorganisation and sales reinvigoration. 
During the year we launched a new product, 
Torque; a product that helps reduce testing 
time for new software in development by as 
much as 40% (see page 12). Our Infrastructure 
Management Services business had a 
particularly successful year of contract wins, 
and we made good progress within our new 
Joint Venture with YTL in Malaysia. 
Procurement
The procurement business has had a busy year. 
The two large contracts won in 2011 made 
slower progress than expected working through 
to completion of their implementation phases. 
This business sector also gained new leadership 
during the year with the appointment of Ed 
Cross as Executive Director (see pages 48 to 
49). We reorganised the senior management 
team and re-oriented marketing strategy on a 
global basis, building a sales team to support 
this and establishing an office in Chicago.  
In 2013, we will focus on winning additional 
contracts for our new US platform to  
establish the critical mass needed for  
a sustainable business.
In the UK, we rationalised our operating model 
to achieve greater efficiencies to match the 
lower margin on the BAE Systems procurement 
contract that was renewed in February.
The sector successfully renewed maturing 
contracts with all its existing customers and won 
a number of new customers including a leading 
Financial Services company in the UK and G4S in 
Continental Europe, and with Cerebos, Sydney 
Water, University of South Australia and ACH 
Group in Australia. A new contract with Grupo 
Panrico is helping to develop our procurement 
presence in Spain, building on the existing L’Oréal 
contract. Earlier, I referred to our aim to promote 
cross-selling and we saw a good example of this, 
winning a procurement project in Australia with 
existing insurance customer Aon.
Business Processing Services:
Netsett – Liberating cash
What is Netsett?
Netsett is software that operates as a central accounting and net 
settlement service to the global insurance market. The Netsett platform 
has been created in partnership with Deutsche Bank, which provides 
transaction banking, clearing and foreign exchange capabilities to  
the service.
Netsett has 3 key benefits:
1.  Operational efficiency – Netsett removes the need to manage the 
payments cycle as well as allowing for the reconciliation of incoming 
and outgoing payments to the ledger
2.  Transparency and control – there is continual ledger correspondence  
in relation to the incoming and outgoing payments as well as an audit 
trail in the ledger
3 .   Capital efficiency – Netsett enables a reduction of working capital 
and improved cash flow. Clients benefit from reduced bank charges  
due to the reconciliation of outgoing and incoming charges and the 
weekly netting process
Procurement:
Vault – a multi-benefit trading  
platform for procurement globally
What is Vault?
Vault drives procurement performance across the globe by enabling  
spend and savings forecasting, performance monitoring, savings  
reporting and financial settlement.
There are 4 key features that differentiate Vault:
1.  Vault captures business needs that are determined as a result of  
an annual planning process and tracks them from baseline through  
the sourcing project milestones to negotiated contract and finally  
to tracked savings – truly end-to-end visibility
2.  The system offers transparency, giving both Co-Sourcing partners  
access to sourcing initiatives and detailed savings numbers
3.  Vault has been built using the combined experience of Xchanging’s 
sourcing professionals and financial management professionals and 
drawing upon 10 years’ experience operating a gainshare commercial 
model with its customer base
4.  Vault is unique. There is no other solution in the market that has the  
same end-to-end features that Vault has, nor is there a system that  
has been designed and built specifically for the unique requirements  
of the gainshare business model 22
 X c h a n gin g p lc 
Annual report 2012 23
Chief Executive Officer’s report 
continued
High process complexity /  
Low technology-enablement
–  Traditional business process 
outsourcing and IT capabilities
BPO / IT BPaaS
IaaS / PaaS / SaaS
Technology- 
enabled business 
processing  
services
High process complexity / 
High technology-enablement 
–  Higher value model of Business 
Processing as a Service
–  Combination of Cloud technology  
and complex processes
Process complexity
High
High
Xchanging is moving from...
Technology-enablement
We developed and launched a new analytics 
technology, ‘Vault’, designed to track and 
reconcile activity to ensure planned cost  
savings are being achieved. The new product 
has been well received. 
Strategic direction  
(see also business model on pages 6 to 7)
As our markets grow and become more 
developed, they are reflecting a spectrum of 
activities with varying degrees of added value. 
With our depth of expertise in managing 
complex processes and critical technology, 
Xchanging sits towards the upper end of this 
spectrum. Our aim is to move further up this 
Value Curve (see diagram this page above). 
To achieve this we need to increase the use of 
technology in our offerings, for example 
through mobile delivery, analytics and Cloud 
services. Our commitment to this area is 
reflected in the formalisation of our Joint 
Venture with YTL in Malaysia, the dedicated 
product and service development function  
we have set up to serve our insurance services  
in the UK, and our participation in the  
Frankfurt Cloud project. 
We are making better use of our existing 
technology assets – for example accelerating 
completion of Xuber – and prioritising the 
development of new ones. We also recognise 
that ownership of Intellectual Property will 
become increasingly important, both to provide 
an offering and a barrier to entry. Our new five 
year contract to continue managing the IMR is 
an example. 
To retain existing customers as well as to  
attract new ones, we must constantly innovate 
to generate new offerings, and to differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors. In 2012 we 
embedded channels for stimulating, capturing 
and developing innovative ideas (see page 3) 
and saw the first results of putting our new 
system in place. Examples of innovation in  
the year are our procurement analytics  
product Vault (see page 21) and our software 
testing system Torque (see page 12).  23
 Xchanging plc
Annual report 2012  
Business review 16-45
Technology-enablement and innovation  
will remain central to our business plans  
going forward.
Outlook
We set out at the beginning of the year to 
build the foundations for growth. We have 
made good progress and have started to  
see the benefits, with much higher levels of 
interest in our offerings, the award of new 
contracts and the successful renewal of 
existing ones. We have started our transition 
from the founding business model, based  
on a small number of large contracts, to a 
more broadly-based model.
The challenges we face as we go into  
2013 are the more familiar ones of any  
business: innovation and new product and 
service development, differentiation in the 
market, sales and marketing capabilities, 
attracting and retaining talent and effective 
management of costs.
Our agenda for 2013 will be to maintain the 
pace and press ahead with efforts started in 
2012 to compete to win, contributing further  
to the momentum we saw in the second half  
of 2012. 
Ken Lever
Chief Executive Officer
Technology:
Xuber – software for insurance  
specialists, by insurance specialists
What is Xuber?
  In October, we re-launched our insurance software business  
under the name Xuber
  Xuber provides global insurance software for insurers, reinsurers, 
brokers and managing general agents 
  We have invested over £20.0 million and have an ongoing  
investment programme
  There have been 160 successful implementations of Xuber software  
across 40 countries
  Xuber deals with 130 customers, carriers and brokers
  Xuber has 30 years of insurance software pedigree and presents a  
solution designed by insurance professionals, for insurance professionals
  30% of London Market brokers use Xuber software 
The new Xuber platform has 6 key features:
1.  Powerful configuration tool for users
2.  Seamless integrated workflow management
3.  Central data store for name directory management
4.  Tailored real-time dashboard for data reporting
5.  Business support services with document protection and management
6.  Powerful messaging capability
Business Processing Services:
Xchanging Italy 
What is Kedrios?
In 2012, Kedrios, an Xchanging subsidiary, acquired 100% of the share 
capital of AR Enterprise S.r.L. (“AR”). AR was founded in 1980 and both AR 
and Kedrios are based in Milan. AR is a leading provider of software 
packages and comprehensive IT solutions for the securities brokerage and 
asset management industry in Italy. Previously, AR was deemed the main 
competitor to Kedrios. In June 2008, AR merged with AR Servizi, which 
provides outsourcing and facility management services using software 
packages produced by AR. 
AR brings an existing customer base comprising more than 100 financial 
institutions including market leading brokerage and asset management 
companies in Italy. AR also has a strong technology base and is a 
complementary business to Kedrios.
