 16 Xchanging plc Annual report 2011
Chairman’s statement
Xchanging has emerged from a year of considerable activity 
as it has addressed a number of operating and strategic 
issues. It was a year of transition as we started reshaping  
the business to meet the needs of changing markets.
During the year we generated adjusted 
revenues of £650.0 million and adjusted 
operating profit of £43.2 million. Net 
cash at the end of the year increased 
encouragingly to £45.2 million.
Operating progress 
In early 2011, a Four Part Action Plan 
was developed to address a number of 
strategic and operating issues and to 
stabilise the business. 
By the time of the half year results, 
significant progress with the plan had 
been made. Notably, the US workers’ 
compensation business had been sold. 
In addition, the Group’s bank facilities 
had been re-negotiated. These two 
actions provided reassurance to 
customers, investors and employees alike 
and were significant steps enabling the 
business to move forward. 
By the end of the year, significant cost 
reductions had been made, a new sales 
and marketing framework had been 
established and a cultural change 
programme had been launched. 
It was a busy year. Some initial benefits 
have started to show with cost savings 
and improved working capital 
management feeding into better than 
expected operating cash flow. 
2011 2012 2013
Stop the bleeding
Compete to win
Get fit Company 
overview
Business 
review
Corporate 
governance
Financial 
statements
Other 
information
Xchanging plc Annual report 2011 17
Strategic progress
In its first decade, pursuing the 
founding strategy based on Enterprise 
Partnerships, Xchanging became firmly 
established, developed depth of 
expertise and a strong customer base. 
However, growth stalled. In 2011, the 
Board re-examined the appropriateness 
of this strategy in the context of an 
evolving and maturing outsourcing 
market. This is described in more detail 
in the Chief Executive Officer’s report. 
The Board also faced up to the need for 
transition from the entrepreneurial 
phase of Xchanging’s development  
to a strategy for sustainable growth. 
As a result, towards the end of the year, 
Xchanging embarked on a highly focused 
drive to re-generate profitable sales 
growth, and this is also described in 
some detail in the Chief Executive 
Officer’s report. The process will 
continue in 2012 and the impact should 
be increasingly visible as we move 
through the year and into 2013.
Board
There have been a number of changes  
to the Executive and Non-executive 
members of the Board. In June, Ken Lever 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer, 
after a period as Acting Chief Executive 
Officer following David Andrews’ 
departure in February 2011. At the same 
time, David Bauernfeind was appointed 
to the Board as Chief Financial Officer. 
In August, Stephen Brenninkmeijer and 
Johannes Maret retired from their 
Non-executive Directorships. In December 
Bill Thomas and I joined the Board as 
Non-executive Directors. On 1 January 
2012, I assumed the role of Chairman, 
following the retirement of Nigel Rich 
from that role on 31 December 2011. 
These changes represent, in part, 
retirement after long service. They  
also reflect the view that, to address 
Xchanging’s challenges and to drive the 
regeneration of profitable growth in the 
next phase of development, the Board 
will benefit from a higher degree of 
industry-specific expertise. I would like 
to thank all the departing Board 
members, and my predecessor Nigel 
Rich in particular, for their dedicated 
service to Xchanging.
People
In a very active year there have been 
many changes at all levels, including 
amongst our leadership. This has been 
unsettling for customers and employees 
alike. Our business is dependent on our 
people, and so it was greatly reassuring 
to learn from the year’s employee 
engagement focus groups of the high 
degree of dedication felt by our people.  
I would like to thank all our employees 
for their loyal determination through this 
difficult period.
Dividend and share price
Xchanging’s share price ended the year at 
significantly less than its value at the start 
of the year. Together with the suspension 
of the dividend, this has not been a 
rewarding year for shareholders. However, 
the Board believes it is taking the right 
measures to address Xchanging’s 
challenges, and that during this 
regeneration phase it remains prudent  
to conserve cash. Resumption of the 
payment of a dividend will be reviewed  
by the Board at the half year 2012. 
Future
Xchanging is now moving out of a 
period of difficult change and into a  
time of renewal. Having stabilised the 
operations in 2011, attention is now 
focused on building our position with 
existing customers, further simplification 
of the business, on generating profitable 
new sales growth and increasing value 
for our shareholders.
Xchanging has a strong customer base 
and a track record of successful business 
processing, much of it in highly complex 
and technology-critical areas. However, 
we are not exploiting the full potential of 
either. We are clear about our mission in 
2012. We will get closer to our customers, 
listen and respond better, and grow our 
existing relationships. We will develop our 
sales and marketing culture so that we 
can take the significant capabilities and 
offerings that exist within the Group to 
the market much more actively. We will 
do this by focusing on a more targeted set 
of primary offerings where we are 
demonstrably competitive.
We understand our markets better, as 
well as the opportunities they offer to 
Xchanging with our particular strengths. 
The reshaping of the Group is well under 
way, driven by a rigorous assessment of 
how best to generate value in each of 
the businesses.
2012 will be the year in which Xchanging 
focuses on proving itself. I joined the 
Group because I believe it has the talent, 
track record and capabilities – much of it 
unsung – as well as the opportunity to 
succeed. Under Ken Lever’s leadership,  
a great deal of progress was achieved in 
2011, and we will continue this rapid 
progress in 2012. 
 
Geoff Unwin
Chairman
1 March 2012
