 03
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
Including exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and IAS19 pension finance charges,
reported profit before tax was £2.7m (2010/11: £1.9m).
Underlying diluted earnings per share were up 7% to 19.9 pence (2010/11: 18.6 pence). Including
underlying adjustments, fully diluted earnings per share were up 25% to 7.1 pence (2010/11: 5.7 pence).
The balance sheet remains robust with net assets at the year end of £49.1m (2010/11: £51.3m), including
net cash of £6.3m (2010/11: £6.7m). The year end net cash balance remained similar to the prior year as
the generation of cash from profits and reductions in working capital were offset by the outflows due
to the acquisitions of Hectronic and MTC, exceptional restructuring projects and dividend payments.
Committed banking facilities of £19m, plus £13m of uncommitted facilities leave the Group well
positioned to capitalise on any new opportunities that may arise.
Acquisitions
Hectronic, based in Uppsala, Sweden, was acquired in June 2011 for £1.2m. The business supplies
custom designed computers for industrial control applications.
MTC, based near Munich, Germany, was acquired in October 2011 for up to £3.3m including earn-out.
The business supplies custom designed electromagnetic shielding products for industrial applications.
Both businesses supply own branded products, providing customised, individually designed solutions
and have significantly enhanced opportunities for accelerated growth throughout the Acal network.
Compotron based in Munich and acquired in January 2011, has performed strongly since acquisition.
The integration into the existing German business of Acal BFi is proceeding ahead of plan, and is
forecast to complete in the autumn.
It remains part of the Board's strategy to accelerate growth through the acquisition of value enhancing
specialist electronic businesses, complementing organic growth. The Group targets businesses where
the opportunity exists to build our market position in either a specific technology or geography, and
where the opportunity for above average growth exists.
Dividend
It is the Board's intention to maintain a progressive dividend policy wherever practical to do so, and as
such the Board is recommending an increase to the final dividend of 7% to 5.5 pence per share, giving
a full year dividend increase of 7% to 8 pence per share and with a cover of 2.5 times on an underlying
basis. In total, the dividend has been increased by 14% over the last 2 years. Over the medium term, it
is the Board's intention to maintain dividend coverage in the range of two to three times earnings.
The dividend is payable on 27 July 2012 to shareholders on the register as at 15 June 2012.
Employees
This year has presented many operational challenges as we integrated further acquisitions, exited the
bulk of our remaining non-specialist products, reduced costs in response to market conditions, and
embarked upon the journey to develop a new web marketing capability. As ever, our employees have
responded to the challenges admirably, and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their
continued dedication and commitment.
I would also like to welcome those employees from Hectronic and MTC who have joined the Group
this year through acquisition.
The year ahead
Economic conditions continue to be very challenging, with little forward visibility. Whilst the business
will undoubtedly continue to feel the effects of such uncertainty, the Board believes that the focus on
supplying highly differentiated electronics to industrial customers will continue to build long term
value for shareholders.
Richard Moon
Chairman
29 May 2012
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements
dividend
increase of
14%
over 2 years
