 06
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
chief executive’s review
Acal is the leading supplier of specialist Electronics in Europe and the only such specialist supplier
offering a broad range of complementary technologies across Europe. Technologies include
Communications, Electromagnetic Shielding, Imaging, Microsystems, Magnetics, Photonics, Power,
Sensors and Specialist Semiconductors. The business operates in technically demanding market niches,
supplying a range of industrial sectors, mostly in high technology manufacturing, where customers
appreciate the added value that comes from high levels of technical support and customised solutions.
As well as being the market leader, Acal is the only specialist supplier in Europe to operate across
multiple territories, technologies and industrial sectors. With an increasing focus on selling solutions
rather than individual components, our customers appreciate the technical expertise that we are able
to provide to their design and manufacturing challenges. Around three quarters of Electronics division
sales come from products that are either uniquely created for one customer and/or exclusively
sourced. With such a model, Acal's risk exposure to any one territory, technology or sector is greatly
reduced. Our suppliers are now able to gain access to around 25,000 customers through Acal, rather
than directly via multiple, country specific vendors.
Group Objectives
The Group has a number of key objectives for the short and medium term in order to build a high
performance, growth oriented business. Significant progress has been made in the three years since
the new strategy was implemented and these remain priorities.
Growth ahead of GDP over the business cycle. Organic growth will be further enhanced
by acquisitions.
Electronics sales have nearly doubled over the last three years (CAGR 21%) and total Group sales are
up 56% (CAGR 16%) over that period, resulting from a combination of organic and acquisitive growth.
Excluding non specialist discontinuations, underlying specialist electronics sales grew by 27% CAGR.
Whilst short term sales will be subject to the influence of wider economic trends, both the rate of high
technology innovation and the proliferation of high technology into every day applications is
expected to continue at rates well in excess of GDP .
Develop and maintain attractive margins
Over the last three years, the Group has moved from loss into profit, achieving an underlying
operating margin of 3.1% in the reported year, with gross margins having risen by 3.7 percentage
points over the same period.
Our target in the medium term remains to achieve 5% underlying operating margins through a
combination of continuing robust gross margins, further improvements in operating efficiency and
increasing volumes.
Enhance growth through selective, value enhancing acquisitions
Acquisitions play an important part in developing the long term performance of the business. The
Group’s strategy is to acquire businesses that provide complementary products and or geographic
coverage, enhancing the combined customer offer as well as enabling efficiency improvements
through varying levels of operational integration.
Over the last three years, four businesses were acquired of which three were immediately earnings
enhancing, whilst the fourth, Hectronic has performed in line with our expectations communicated at
the time of acquisition (namely, earnings neutral for this year and expected to be earnings enhancing
thereafter). The £22.6m invested in acquisitions generated a pre tax return on investment (including
integration costs) of 26% this year.
electronics sales
growth of 21%
CAGR over 3 years
significant progress has
been made in the three
years since the new strategy
was implemented 07
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
We retain staff resources dedicated to delivering suitable acquisitions on an ongoing basis.
Develop healthy cash flow to fund future growth and dividends
The Group focuses on free cash flow generation in order to monitor its ability to convert underlying
operating profits into cash and as such, targets free cash flow in excess of 60% of underlying operating
profit, and dividend cover of between two and three times over the cycle.
Free cash flow for this year was £10.5m, (130% of underlying operating profit) and £22.4m for the last
3 years (151% of underlying operating profit for that 3 year period).
Create strong returns on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”)
ROTCE was 21.7% for the current financial year. This is up 3.4 percentage points over last year and 20.8
percentage points over the year ended 31 March 2009. The Group targets to deliver ROTCE in excess
of 25% in the medium term.
Deliver value growth for shareholders
Long term total shareholder return (“TSR”) is targeted to be within the upper quartile. In the three year
period to 31 March 2012, TSR grew by 130%, being in the top 27% performance ranking when
compared to the FTSE Small Cap Index.
Group strategy
The specialist Electronics market place is highly fragmented, characterised by many medium and
smaller sized businesses throughout Europe.
It is three years since the implementation of the specialist approach, and the Group has made significant
progress re-positioning the Electronics business, improving performance, improving the quality of
earnings, reducing risk and enhancing future prospects. There are three key elements to the strategy;
1 Grow presence in key markets
2 Expand the specialist product offer
3 Increase operational efficiency
Grow presence in key markets
The Group has built its position in the key markets in Europe through organic growth with selective
value enhancing acquisitions. Similar specialist markets exist internationally, and to the extent that
they offer higher growth opportunities within a growth oriented economy, also offer scope for further
geographic expansion.
Currently, 90% of the Group’s European sales come from stronger economies. Within this, 63% comes
from the UK & Germany. The Group has little exposure to the peripheral Eurozone countries. Organic
growth is driven by the design and subsequent conversion into production, of electronic equipment
that require specialist products. Production demand can be influenced by general economic factors,
and as such, the manufacturing PMI index provides a useful indicator of macro-economic demand
trends. However, customers’ design activity is less influenced by such factors. Our design opportunities
have continued to grow during the year.
Hectronic, acquired in June 2011, has strengthened our management capabilities in the Nordic region
while MTC, acquired in October 2011, has further enhanced our capabilities in Germany. Both offer the
opportunity to expand sales throughout the network of Acal companies.
Expand the specialist product offer
The Group continues to expand the range of specialist technologies and products on offer through
the addition of complementary products to existing technology units, the appointment of new
suppliers and the creation of additional technology units.
During the year thirteen new suppliers were engaged, expanding our technology offer in four
technology units, and bringing the total number of new suppliers over the last two years to twenty
four. Of these we expect around two thirds to grow into significant generators of revenue over a three
year period. The nature of the business means that there will always be a degree of churn as
established products become commoditised and replaced by new technologies. We continue to seek
well established and differentiated suppliers that are looking to expand into a broader industrial
90% of the group’s
european sales
come from stronger
economies
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 08
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
customer base. With the rate of technology innovation and proliferation into a wider range of
applications continuing apace, we remain optimistic of future opportunities.
The design cycle for new products takes between six months and two years to reach production.
Once reached, demand may continue for several years, providing a degree of future visibility.
Customer design and development activity has been less affected during the current economic
slowdown, and is expected to help fuel sales growth as economic conditions improve and new
projects are released into production.
The acquisition of Hectronic has expanded an existing technology area into the Nordic region. The
business provides custom designed computers for challenging industrial control applications and
complements the Group's similar existing Microsystems business in the UK. The business has sub
contract manufacturing partners in Sweden, Germany and Taiwan.
The acquisition of MTC brought a new product technology capability to the Group. MTC supply
custom and standard Electromagnetic shielding solutions to industrial customers. Their fast
turnaround on custom designs enables them to offer a high level of service on medium and small
production quantities that is typically not available elsewhere. The business owns a production facility
in South Korea, and has manufacturing capability in Germany.
Increase operational efficiency
The Group continues to target improvements in its operational efficiency through increasing sales
of highly differentiated, higher margin value-added products and solutions whilst maintaining tight
control of operating expenses and working capital.
Higher margin products
Gross margins increased throughout the year, being 3.7 percentage points higher than three years ago.
This has been achieved through a change in the sales mix as the Group focuses on selling more highly
differentiated products and solutions and through acquisitions of wholly specialist businesses as well
as, to a lesser degree, the discontinuation of non specialist products.
Tight control of operating expenses
In response to weaker market conditions, operating expenses were reduced by an annualised total
of £6m (9% of last year’s underlying operational cost base) of which £1.4m was recognised this year.
Of the total annualised savings, £4.7m came from Electronics, and £1.3m from Supply Chain.
There were three areas of cost reduction;
1 General cost reductions, incorporating the integration of sales and marketing in preparation
for a single brand Electronics web launch – £3.7m reduction
The two formerly independent trading brands (Acal Technology & BFi Optilas) are being merged
into one in preparation for the launch of the new web capability later this summer. This
integration was brought forward by nine months in response to economic conditions.
The main cost reduction was in the Spanish business in response to a revenue decline of 35%
in the year, as a result of the difficult economic environment. This cost reduction amounted to
£1.5m or 42%.
In addition cost savings were generated from the consolidation of central administration and
finance functions from two locations into one.
2 Discontinuation of non specialist business – £1.0m reduction
Sales of non specialist Electronics products were further reduced in line with our stated strategy.
The discontinued products were multi distributed and provided less differentiation for Acal in the
eyes of our customers. With total revenues discontinued of £5m this year and £11m next year, 86%
of ongoing Electronics sales now come from specialist products. Over time, this proportion is
expected to further increase to in excess of 90%, mostly as a result of organic growth of existing
specialist products, complemented by further acquisitions.
3 Supply Chain division cost reductions – £1.3m reduction
The loss making Retail sector operation was disposed of to a third party for a nominal consideration,
chief executive’s review continued
24
new suppliers
over the last
2 years 09
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
including the transfer of 11 employees under TUPE. Additionally, reductions were made within the
Division’s low margin operations through the reduction of staff and certain unprofitable sales
contracts. The cost savings are part of an ongoing transition of the business towards more highly
differentiated customer contracts, reducing reliance on standard parts trading.
Tight control of Working Capital
Working capital remained low at 12.0% of sales (2010/11: 12.0%).
Significant gains in working capital efficiency have been achieved and sustained over the three years
since the introduction of the new strategy. With the higher degree of customisation and specialisation,
customers place orders in advance of requirements, reducing the need for the Group to hold
uncommitted inventory.
Average debtor days improved to record low levels, being 50 days at the end of the year, 5 days better
than prior year. As well as being a generally well capitalised customer base, the Group’s customers are
sourcing specialist and often single sourced products and are therefore more likely to pay on time so
as to ensure timely delivery of future requirements.
Operating performance
The year has seen further growth in operating performance and profitability. Underlying operating
profits increased by 9% to £8.1m, and underlying operating margin increased by 0.3 percentage
points to 3.1%.
Despite market conditions weakening during the year with a resulting flattening of sales growth
(leading to reported Group revenues being down 3%), gross and operating margins continued to
increase, as the benefits of the strategy continued to come through. Reported gross profits increased
by 4%, as gross margins increased to 30.9% in H2, one year ahead of our target.
Like for like operating expenses excluding acquisitions were down 3% for the year, with the second
half reduced by 7%, being a reflection of the cost saving initiatives taken. As reported above, actions
were taken in response to weaker economic conditions, which resulted in the reduction of £1.4m of
operating expenses during the year (£6.0m on an annualised basis). There was a one off exceptional
charge of £2.2m, with a further £1.3m to come in the new year. In total, these one off costs represent a
payback period of approximately 7 months.
Divisional performance
2012 2011
Underlying Underlying Underlying Underlying
operating operating operating operating
Sales profit margin Sales profit margin
£m £m % £m £m %
Electronics 207.1 10.8 5.2% 210.5 10.3 4.9%
Supply Chain 50.7 1.3 2.6% 54.3 1.2 2.2%
Unallocated
1
(4.0) -1.6% (4.1) -1.5%
Total 257.8 8.1 3.1% 264.8 7.4 2.8%
1
% of Total Sales
Electronics division
The Electronics division delivered underlying operating profits of £10.8m, up 5% over last year.
Reported sales of £207.1m were down 2% year on year and down 9% on a like for like basis as the
focus on specialisation continued. Excluding the discontinuations of the non specialist business,
reported revenues grew by 1%. Underlying operating margins increased by 0.3 percentage points to
5.2%. The business profile has continued to evolve and improve. Three years ago, 55% of Electronics
division sales were from specialist products. By the second half of the year, this had risen to 86% of
ongoing sales. We expect this figure to continue to rise, albeit more slowly. Three years ago, the largest
supplier represented approximately 7% of Group revenues. Today, the largest supplier accounts for less
than 3% which is a reflection of the Group's move to build a lower risk, more diversified business
model. Based on data provided by IDEA, the European electronics distribution industry association,
our market share grew throughout the year.
During the period, the Group received two awards in recognition of business performance. In January,
Honeywell Sensing and Control awarded Acal the Gold Partner Award, recognising outstanding
further growth
in operating
performance
and proﬁtability
overview business review governance ﬁnancial statements 10
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
chief executive’s review continued
organic sales growth in the calendar year 2011, and being their fastest growing distributor in Europe.
In March, Avago awarded Acal the Partnership Excellence award, in recognition of three years of
exceptionally high sales growth. Both awards represent significant market share gains.
By region, reported sales in Northern and Central Europe grew by 5% and 8% respectively, including
the effect of recent acquisitions and excluding sales of terminated non-specialist products. In
Southern Europe, comprising France, Italy and Spain, sales declined by 13% on the same basis. Within
this, sales in Spain declined by 35% as a result of the cancellation of a number of public expenditure
projects. Of the four primary technology groups, three reported growth of between 2% and 8%, whilst
the Light and Imaging unit reported a decline of 14% driven principally by the decline of Imaging
projects in Spain.
Web development
During the year the development of a new Electronics web platform began, creating a marketing
platform with which to reach new customers. The web platform will operate under one brand and
provide much greater visibility of, and access to, the Electronic Division’s wide range of specialist
products and solutions, suppliers and technologies. The platform will create a unique capability in this
sector of the market. Access will be provided via local language websites in each of the twelve
countries that the Electronics Division operates in.
The new website is expected to be launched in the second half of the coming financial year.
Under IFRS, software and development expenditure does not qualify for capitalisation over its useful life.
Therefore, a one-off charge of £0.3m has been taken in the year, with a further £1.0m to come in the
year ahead. Beyond that, ongoing running costs will be included within underlying operating expenses.
Supply Chain division
The Supply Chain division provides service parts and inventory solutions to IT service providers, as well
as aftermarket warranty services in the UK and Germany to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").
Profitability in the Supply Chain division increased by 8% to £1.3m (2011: £1.2m). The business continued
to develop higher margin contract business, reducing dependence on lower margin traded products, and
discontinuing sales of less differentiated products and services as described above. As a consequence,
reported revenues for the year declined by 7% to £50.7m, with like for like sales down 4%. Underlying
operating margin was up 0.4 percentage points on last year to 2.6%.
Roll out of the extension to an existing major contract, announced at the time of the interim results,
has progressed well and is delivering as expected. Additionally, a contract with a large multinational,
market leading hardware and service provider was won in the fourth quarter, to manage the provision
of certain spare parts throughout Europe. Revenues are expected to begin modestly.
Summary and outlook
The business has performed well during the year delivering a 9% growth in underlying operating
profit and free cash flow of £10.5m, building upon the significant progress of the last two years. The
Group has benefited from taking market share from smaller independent competitors who are unable
to match the breadth and technical depth of our offer and has continued to attract new supply
partners to our business.
The plan to become a fully specialist business is now largely complete and on schedule. The business
is resourced to take benefit from the growing pipeline of new opportunities and is well positioned for
further growth when economic conditions improve.
Given the continuing difficult economic conditions in Europe and the uncertainty of the timing and
pace of a recovery, we remain cautious for the year ahead, but well positioned to accelerate growth as
and when conditions improve.
Nick Jefferies
Group Chief Executive
29 May 2012
new web capability
will increase
customer reach
