 02
acal plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2012
chairman’s statement
This is the third full year since the Group changed its strategy to become a differentiated specialist
electronics business, and I am pleased to report another year of progress with improvements in both
operating performance and efficiency. The business model of focusing on the supply of technically
demanding, bespoke electronics for industrial applications, is becoming established amongst our key
trading partners, fulfilling a need not met by other channels.
During this three year period, the Group has returned to profitability, increased operating margins
each year, and generated £22m of cumulative free cash flow. This has been achieved through a near
doubling of Electronics sales as well as a sustained increase in gross margins. Over the same period,
total shareholder return increased 130% up to 31 March 2012, and the annual dividend has returned
to growth, up 14% in the last 2 years. All this against a backdrop of unparalleled economic uncertainty
affecting markets globally.
In addition to developing the existing business during this three year period, the Group has invested
£22m in acquiring four Electronics businesses, and disposed of two loss making Supply Chain
operations, ATM Parts and Retail. The Board is pleased with the progress of each acquisition and looks
forward to the benefits of accelerated growth as the acquired businesses gain access to our technical
specialists and larger pan European customer base.
The European economic and Global electronics contraction during the year slowed our rate of
progress, particularly in the second half, but improvements in the quality and efficiency of the core
business continued to be made. Annualised operating costs were reduced by £6m during the year as
the Group reacted quickly to the changing conditions as well as continuing the move away from
lower margin, non specialist business in both the Electronics and Supply Chain divisions. We expect
growth to accelerate when economic conditions improve. 90% of Acal's European business is
conducted in stronger economies with limited exposure to higher risk areas.
The Group is well positioned, and the Board believes that there is significant opportunity to generate
further long term value for shareholders by continuing to build its leading position in the specialist
electronics marketplace, both organically and through acquisition.
Results
Underlying operating profitability for the year grew by 9% to £8.1m, and underlying operating margin
increased by 0.3 percentage points to 3.1%, driven by efficiency improvements and gross margin growth.
Overall Group revenues declined by 3% to £258m, partly as a result of the discontinuation of non
specialist Electronics products as the Group continues to re-align itself as a specialist supplier (£5m
impact this year and a further £11m impact is expected for next year) and partly as a result of the
market slowdown in the second half.
This reduction in revenues was offset by a significant increase in gross margins of 1.8 percentage
points resulting in reported gross profits being up 4%.
Exceptional costs for the year totalled £3.4m (2010/11: £4.4m), of which £2.2m relate to the following
restructuring initiatives: (i) the non-specialist discontinuations referred to above (£0.7m) and (ii) cost
reductions in response to market conditions (£1.5m). Other exceptional costs comprised expenses of
acquisition, disposal and integration, and the development cost of our new web marketing capability.
Operating cost reductions for the year totalled £6m on an annualised basis of which £1.4m arose in
this financial year.
total shareholder
return up
130%
over 3 years
the board believes that there
is significant opportunity to
generate further long term
value for shareholders
