 02 Xploite plc Annual Report 2008  Annual Report 2008 Xploite plc 03
CHairman’s statement I am delighted to report results ahead of expectations for 
2008, with total revenues from continuing operations up 
60% to £46.3m, gross profits from continuing operations 
up 101% to £12.6m and an adjusted EBITDA from 
continuing operations up 436% to £3.7m. The group 
also made a profit on the disposal of part of the Itheon 
business of £1.1m. The Group has benefited from the 
combined effects of tight working capital management, 
the successful integration of the businesses acquired over 
the previous year and the disposal of part of the Itheon 
business, so that as at 31 October 2008 net debt was 
£0.2m.
This is a considerable achievement by the management 
team, particularly when set against the backdrop of the 
prevailing adverse macro-economic conditions and the 
fact that the Group was also in an offer period from 11 
December 2007 to 27 March 2008.
Our strategy is to identify, acquire, consolidate and 
develop innovative, high growth businesses in the IT 
services marketplace. We create shareholder value by 
identifying and acquiring underperforming businesses, 
integrating and developing them, and improving their 
performance through ‘active management’. It is our 
strategy that, at an appropriate time, we will exit these 
businesses returning profits to shareholders. We continue 
to believe this remains a sound strategy, particularly 
in the current market where there are significant new 
opportunities for consolidation.
In our 2007 financial year we acquired four businesses 
which satisfied our strategic requirements: Anix, Posetiv, 
Red Squared and Itheon. The 2008 financial year has seen 
us deliver on the integration and development of these 
businesses. Our stewardship has begun to build significant 
shareholder value by shifting the focus of these businesses 
onto recurring revenue sources, improving margins, 
winning major contracts and disposing of non-core 
activities. We focussed our acquisitions into two divisions 
Anix and Itheon (now Storage Fusion) and both have 
made substantial progress in the 2008 financial year.
The consolidation of three of the acquired businesses 
(Anix, Red Squared and Posetiv) under the single Anix 
brand was completed in January 2008 and we have 
installed a single operating board for that operation. The 
objective for the enlarged Anix business is to become 
the UK’s leading mid-market managed service provider in 
the storage and server infrastructure sector, focused on 
building strong recurring revenue streams. The ability of 
the business to secure a number of high value managed 
services contracts during the year and post year end has 
demonstrated that there is a strong customer demand for 
managed services and enabled us to build a business with 
long term, visible revenues and improving margins.
The Group’s fourth acquisition, Itheon, was acquired for 
its software development skills rather than what was then 
the bulk of its business. In the 2008 financial year, we 
split its activities and renamed the retained part, being 
the Storage Resource Analysis (SRA) software business 
Storage Fusion. The legacy monitoring software solutions 
operation was sold in October 2008 and with it the Itheon 
brand, to Bluechip Customer Engineering for £3.3m, 
realising a profit on disposal of this business before tax of 
£1.1m.
Storage Fusion is gaining considerable traction from its 
SRA business; we recently announced some significant 
license and royalty agreements. Anix has also successfully 
integrated Itheon’s innovative monitoring software into its 
own service offerings.
As a specialist service company it is imperative that we 
retain high quality employees. The high level of service 
that our customers expect has always been maintained 
and it is thanks to the dedication of our colleagues that 
this has been possible.
The Group’s trading to date in the current financial year 
is line with the Board’s expectations, with good cash 
generation. As our forward visibility grows, the Directors 
remain confident that the Group’s strategic focus will 
continue to provide attractive returns for shareholders.
John Standen 
Chairman
c99861Book.indb   2 11/2/09   13:18:03
