 02 Xploite plc Annual Report 2008  Annual Report 2008 Xploite plc 03
CHief exeCutive’s review
Strategic overview
Our objective is to identify, acquire, consolidate and 
develop underperforming companies and businesses in 
which we see opportunities to create value through a 
combination of integration, investment and enhancing 
both corporate and operational infrastructure. The 
Board aims to grow the Group both organically and by 
acquisition, and to convert this growth into higher profit 
and cash flow, through increased margins achieved by 
careful cost control and management of the revenue mix.
Xploite’s management team first adopted its buy and 
build strategy in 2003. Between 2003 and 2006 it 
acquired nine businesses in the network integration sector 
of the IT industry. These were consolidated into two 
operating divisions.
In February 2006 and June 2006 the two operating 
divisions were sold realising a profit of £19.2m and 
shortly thereafter £10.3m was returned to shareholders. 
Since February 2007 Xploite has begun to acquire and 
consolidate in the managed services and software as a 
service (SaaS) sector of the IT industry. Since then the 
Group has acquired four and disposed of two businesses.
Following the disposal of the Itheon brand in October 
2008, the Group operates two trading businesses Anix 
and Storage Fusion. Anix is a leading implementer of 
advanced storage solutions and one of IBM’s leading 
partners in the UK. Our strategy is to develop Anix into 
the UK’s number one mid market managed services 
provider. Storage Fusion is a software company focussed 
entirely on the SaaS model for storage analytics with a 
range of tools focussed on storage analytics.
The current world market place makes for a potentially 
difficult time for IT services businesses. However, in an 
economic downturn all companies look to save cost and 
in both Anix and Storage Fusion we have businesses that 
allow our customers to do just that.
Demand for managed services in both the public and 
private sector is increasing as organisations look to third 
parties with the necessary specialist skills and scale to 
implement and host key applications on a cost effective 
basis.
As a result, the Board expects demand for the Group’s 
services to increase as more companies recognise the 
benefits of having their data networks actively managed 
by a trusted third party.
Anix
Our objective for Anix has been to become the UK’s 
number one mid market managed services partner with 
a focus on storage and server infrastructure. The key 
performance indicator of our success against this objective 
is the significant underlying growth in recurring revenues 
and gross margin achieved throughout the year.
During the year, the revenue from services (the majority 
of which are recurring revenues) represented 51% (2007: 
36%) of total Anix revenues. In addition, gross margin 
from services grew by 119% from £10.4m to £22.8m. 
Notable wins across the year included a major European 
bank, Speedy Hire, Wyevale Garden Centres, Atos Orgin 
and a major high street retailer.
In the year, Anix was also awarded IBM Server Services 
SPL strategic supplier status, demonstrating the depth 
of relationship Anix enjoys with its largest supplier. Our 
pipeline of new business is strong and already in the 
2009 financial year we have announced new contract 
wins totalling £10m. Our Total Contract Value (TCV) per 
contract is also increasing with an average value now of 
circa £3m on new contracts won.
In the current economic climate, managed services are 
becoming more attractive to both new and existing 
customers. The opportunity to replace capital expenditure 
with operating expenditure allows companies to preserve 
cash for their core business and also removes the fear of 
running under staffed or under budgeted IT departments. 
Our experience has shown the greatest driver for our 
customers is not cost savings per se, but the assurance of 
the smooth running of their IT systems, backed by near 
100% service level agreements.
Despite the growth of its managed services revenues, 
hardware reselling remains an important feature of the 
Anix business and brings substantial benefits to the 
managed services strategy. For example, it helps the 
business to secure high level discounts by virtue of our 
tier one hardware and software relationships with leading 
vendors, and provides a built-in prospect base for the 
managed services practice.
Storage Fusion
This business was born out of the Storage Resource 
Analysis (SRA) software business components of Itheon 
which was acquired in late 2007.
One of the reasons Itheon was originally acquired was 
to deliver cost savings into the Anix managed services 
operation. The core technology of Itheon was based 
around server monitoring which is a key function of 
c99861Book.indb   3 11/2/09   13:18:03 04 Xploite plc Annual Report 2008  Annual Report 2008 Xploite plc 05
CHief exeCutive’s review continued
running a managed service. During the year we migrated 
away from using expensive IBM Tivoli licences in our 
operations and replaced them with the Itheon server 
monitoring technology.
Towards the year end we identified the opportunity to 
sell Itheon, whilst at the same time retaining the core SRA 
technology within the Group, at the same time enabling 
Anix to continue to utilise Itheon at the same price point. 
We took this opportunity and realised disposal proceeds 
of £3.3m and a gain of £1.6m after tax. The opportunity 
resulted in an overall Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 51% 
for the Itheon business.
The second reason for the acquisition of Itheon was the 
potential we saw to deliver its SRA solution. We have 
invested heavily in the development of this software 
which enables us to provide storage analytics as a SaaS 
solution.
This software is very powerful and enables the customer 
to identify and recover large areas of reclaimable capacity 
within their existing infrastructure thereby saving and 
deferring capital outlay. We believe this will prove to be 
a very compelling proposition particularly in the current 
economic environment.
SRA has been successfully trialled by IT Vendors, IBM, 
Sun Microsystems, EMC and Dell in the UK. End user 
customers have included T-Mobile, Reuters, Johnson 
and Johnson and ING among many others. These trials 
have been successful and are now beginning to deliver 
revenues. As an indication the minimum revenue from 
such a client could be £1,500 per report with the largest 
so far in the region of £40,000. In order to really extract 
the full value from this system many customers will elect 
to run regular reports.
SRA was successfully sold to two USA companies on a 
licence basis at the end of the 2008 year. This gives these 
customers the ability to host the software on their own 
platform and sell the service to their own customers on 
a non-exclusive basis. Fees per report will also arise from 
these sales.
Our expectation in the year to 31 October 2009 is to sell 
more licences of this nature. We also anticipate setting up 
our own portal which will allow any customer anywhere 
in the world to log in and utilise the software on a regular 
basis paid for on an as used basis. In addition to this, 
we are also in discussion with major storage vendors to 
deliver branded open SRA portals.
Post year end events
On 15 December 2008, the group completed the 
acquisition of Blue River Systems Limited (‘Blue River’) 
from Cantono plc (‘Cantono’) and the assets of three of 
Cantono’s managed services businesses, following the 
approval of Cantono’s shareholders. The main reason 
for this transaction was to acquire Cantono’s existing 
managed service contract base. These managed service 
contracts are expected to increase the value of annuity 
revenues in the group which is in line with our overall 
objectives.
c99861Book.indb   4 11/2/09   13:18:03
