 12
“ th E sup ERyacht ma Rk Etplac E Is sh OWIng 
s Igns Of g Radual REc OVERy. In 2010, th E 
numb ER Of sup ERyacht sal Es ac ROss th E 
Indust Ry Was h Igh ER than th E pREVIOus 
y Ea R and In th E f IRst Qua Rt ER Of 2011 yc O 
has s EEn an I nc REas E In E n Qu IRIEs .”
charlie birKett
ch IEf E x Ecut IVE Off Ic ER 
ycO cO -f Ound ER
chief executive’s state Ment
r eview OF b u Sine SS Operati On S
bro Kerage 
a fter an encouraging performance by the brokerage 
division in 2009 the board took the opportunity to 
further strengthen the team during 2010, attracting 
four well regarded sales and charter brokers from a 
leading competitor. t he ongoing recruitment and 
retention of industry leading employees remains core 
to our strategy. Overall, both sales and charter 
performed ahead of expectations, both in terms of the 
sales, and also in securing new c entral a gency yachts.
d uring the period yc O continued to offer its clients 
industry innovating services, most recently an ipad 
based application designed as a brokerage tool. a 
superyacht search facility, ‘yachtbox’ is the first 
application of its kind and was well received at its 
launch at the monaco yacht show. 
Manage Ment
a s well as increasing the number of yachts under 
management, yc O took delivery of two new 
superyachts from the prestigious g erman shipyard 
l ürssen (one above 80m and one above 120m). both 
yachts had been overseen by yc O project 
management throughout construction and moved 
seamlessly to the Operational management fleet. 
Overall the department has maintained a satisfying 
market share and its reputation among captains and 
owners for its knowledge and service levels continues 
to grow.
t he g roup continued to develop its management 
service offering globally by transferring management 
personnel permanently to the g ulf. yc O continues to 
look to developing regions in the superyacht market 
for potential growth opportunities.
yco c re W
yc O crew achieved improved results, making more 
placements in 2010 than in 2009. In palma, yc O c rew 
relocated to larger offices and is now able to offer 
logistical support to yc O managed yachts based or 
passing locally. t he division remains an excellent 
client source for the c ompany’s yacht management 
division and as such the board was satisfied with its 
performance and looks to strengthen the recruitment 
team in 2011. 
yacht f uel s ervices
t he fuel services division maintained its position in the 
marketplace, performing in line with expectations. In 
early 2010 the division remained affected by reduced 
transatlantic yachting traffic however, and the board 
continues to review its position within the g roup.
yacht h elp g roup  
(no W yco c lient concierge)
d uring the year the decision was taken to withdraw 
yhg operations from s pain and f rance, with all 
activity transferred to yc O’s expanded offices in 
monaco and palma (yc O c rew). n ow ‘yc O c lient 
c oncierge’, the division’s service offering has been  bus In Ess REVIEW
13 yc O g ROup plc annual RE pORt & acc Ounts 2010
further strengthened by a partnership with a leading 
global concierge provider with offices in 60 further 
cities worldwide. t he board views this as a positive 
development of yc O’s existing concierge services, 
an area of the business which has traditionally 
differentiated yc O from competitor charter firms.
Finan Cial r eview We are very pleased with our financial performance 
over the period after posting a small maiden profit 
in 2009. profits have increased dramatically from 
break even to close to £1m before exceptional items 
of £330k, which includes European Vat provision of 
£150k, goodwill of £102k for the liquidation of yacht 
h elp g roup g ibraltar and fixed asset write off of 
£78k for the closure of offices in palma and barcelona. 
a n increase in charter contracts and office expansion 
means that cash is slightly lower than forecast at 
£500k but yc O remains largely free of debt and 
very well positioned for further growth in 2011.
OutlOO k yc O remains focused on building on the excellent 
client, operational and personnel achievements made 
in 2010. It will do this through the ongoing development 
of our client services as well as leveraging the yc O 
brand through strategic marketing initiatives that will 
help ensure yc O maintains its position as a leader in 
the superyacht industry. a s part of this yc O intends 
to implement an Employee Incentive scheme in 2011 
to retain and attract the industry’s leading talent – 
being the only uk listed superyacht services company 
gives yc O a unique industry advantage in this respect. 
 
t he superyacht marketplace is showing signs of 
gradual recovery. In 2010, the number of superyacht 
sales across the industry was higher than the previous 
year and in the first quarter of 2011 yc O has seen an 
increase in enquiries for sales, charter and yacht 
management. With several prospects also 
commissioning the build of new yachts, yc O is 
currently involved commercially with every major 
shipyard in northern Europe, a significant milestone. 
a s founders of yc O, g ary Wright and I are pleased 
with the c ompany’s performance and welcome new 
arrivals to the board and the g roup, in particular the 
new d irector of sales and c harter, n eil c heston. We 
would like to thank the whole yc O team for enabling 
us to achieve very encouraging results for 2010. 
t he g roup is confident that in this improving market, 
with its industry leading client service offering and team 
of highly respected yacht managers and brokers, yc O 
can continue to build on the momentum gained in 2010 
and accordingly the board looks forward with optimism.
Charl i e b irkett chief executive officer
30 May 2011
2011–2012 yachting 
calenD ar
June 7–11
lORO pIana s up ERyacht 
REgatta, pOR t O cERVO , Italy
June 22–25
s up ERyacht c up, palma 
July 16–24
fIR st EVEnt Of th E 2011–12 
amERIca’s cup W ORld sERIEs
a ugust 12–14
shIpyaRd cup, bOO thbay 
haRbOuR, usa
a ugust 25–28
nEWpOR t buckEt, nEWpOR t, 
usa
septeMber 1–4
pERInI na VI cup, pOR t O cERVO , 
Italy
septeMber 6–11
c ann Es Int ERnat IOnal 
yacht shOW
septeMber 4–10
maxI yacht R OlEx cup, 
pORt O cERVO , Italy
septeMber 21–24
mOnacO yacht shOW
sept 25–oct 2
VOIlEs dE saInt tROpEZ, 
saInt tROpEZ, fRancE  
october 27–31
fOR t l aud ERdal E 
IntERnatIOnal bO at shOW
october 29
s ta Rt Of V Ol VO Oc Ean Rac E 
noveMber 15–17
mEts, amstERdam
DeceMber 4–10
a nt Igua yacht c ha Rt ER 
mEEtIng
January 6–15
lOndOn bO at shOW
March 6–11
dubaI IntERnatIOnal bO at 
shOW
april 30–May 4
gEnO a yacht chaR tER shOW 14
ycO yachts tRa VEl 
all OVER thE WORld, 
and s O d O yc O 
yacht managERs and 
bROkERs. tO OffER a 
bEtt ER s ERVIc E t O Ou R 
gulf basEd clIEnts, 
ycO EstablIshEd a 
pERman Ent p REs Enc E 
In dO ha In 2010, Wh Ich 
WIll gROW t O a full 
s ERVIc E Off Ic E In 2011.  bus In Ess REVIEW
15 yc O g ROup plc annual RE pORt & acc Ounts 2010
a s Ou R cl IEnt bas E g ROWs, 
yc O l OOks t O Expand Its 
REach gl Obally. In 2011 
yc O has Establ Ish Ed a 
pERman Ent bas E In East 
cO ast usa and c Ont Inu Es 
t O Expl ORE OppORtun It IEs 
In d EVEl OpIng sup ERyacht 
ma Rk Ets. 
glObal ExpansIOn
Ou R dI stI nctIO ns
