 OVERVIEW
01
yc O g ROup plc annual RE pORt & acc Ounts 2009
f Inanc Ial h Ighl Ights
OpERat IOnal h Ighl Ights
Completion of Group restructuring with new Chief ■ ■
Executive overseeing the successful implementation 
of a cost reduction programme and the consolidation 
of Yacht Help Group
Strong performance at YCO Brokerage, ahead of ■ ■
management’s expectations 
Increased number of contracted superyachts by 34% ■ ■
to 51 (2008: 38)
Strengthened teams at YCO Brokerage and YCO ■ ■
Management, reflecting confidence in improving 
market conditions
Yacht Fuel Services has maintained its leading position ■ ■
in the market and benefited from increased operating 
margins 
BEtt ER mIx Of REVEnu E, REfl Ect Ing st ROng ER 
pERf ORmanc E Of yc O BROk ERag E, yc O 
manag EmEnt, yc O cREW REc Ru Itm Ent  
and yacht hElp gROup
REVEnuE O f 
 £24.7m
(2008: £28.5m)
gROss pROfIt
 £7.0m
(2008: £5.3m)
pROf It BEf ORE 
tax O f
 £31,000
(2008: loss £684,000)
IncREasEd By 33% t O SERVICES
02
yc O gRO up plc 
IS a COll ECt IOn OF SpECIal ISt COMpan IES 
pr Ov Id In G k EY SErv ICES t O t HE w Orld’ S  
Fl EEt OF Sup ErYa CHt S
2009 has been an important year of transition for the Group. despite the 
backdrop of a very challenging environment for luxury tourism, YCO has 
completed a successful turnaround programme that has resulted in the Group 
reporting a maiden profit. 
a s a result of this turnaround, the Group has a great opportunity, with  
a strengthened management and service offering, to increase our share  
of the superyacht services market going forward. t his combined with  
the continued, gradual recovery of the market leads us to approach the  
future with optimism
Charlie Birkett, Chief Executive
c Ompany OVERVIEW
yc O gRO up c Ompan IEs OVERVIEW
03
yc O g ROup plc annual RE pORt & acc Ounts 2009
■■ ycO group plc
 london, united kingdom 
■ ycO headquarters
 Monte Carlo, Monaco
■ ycO crew
 antibes, France 
 palma de Mallorca, Spain 
 Barcelona, Spain
■ yacht help group
 antibes, France
 palma de Mallorca, Spain
 Barcelona, Spain
 Gibraltar
■ yacht fuel services
 london, united kingdom
h Ist ORy
Off Ic Es
 2004
YCO founded in 
Monaco by Gary 
w right & Charlie 
Birkett
d euxmil Marine acquires 
Yacht Fuel Services in uk 
d euxmil Marine is 
subsequently admitted to 
a IM on l SE as d euxmil 
Marine plc
 2005-6
d euxmil Marine plc 
acquires YCO (and 
subsidiaries) via reverse 
takeover. Group is 
readmitted to a IM as 
YCO d euxmil plc
 2008
 2007
d euxmil Marine plc 
acquires Yacht Help 
Group in Spain
 2009
YCO d euxmil plc 
renamed YCO 
Group plc 04
at 2009 year end, the Group had 65 staff working from 
premises in l ondon, Monaco, a ntibes, palma, Barcelona 
and a presence in the Gulf. t he scope of operations 
stretches worldwide, in particular to Europe, n orth 
a merica, r ussia, the pacific and the Caribbean. 
t he companies within YCO Group collectively offer  
the widest range of services in the industry and the 
Group therefore competes against brokerage houses, 
management companies, crew recruitment agencies,  
fuel providers, provisioners and chandleries globally.
Service S 
ycO 
YCO, the largest subsidiary, with 50 staff, divides its 
service offering between three main areas: brokerage, 
management and crew recruitment. 
t he YCO Brokerage division deals with superyacht sales 
transactions and charters, and the commission based 
model has the potential to generate the highest profits  
of the Group. YCO may represent both sides of 
transactions, but more often represents Buyers. YCO 
Brokerage currently has a presence in l ondon, Monaco 
and the Gulf, although the company handles transactions 
anywhere in the world and has clients based globally. 
YCO Management provides stable monthly revenue 
streams. t he team of 23 operates a Management 
program which allows Owners and Captains of 
contracted yachts to subscribe to any of a number of 
individually priced services. t he project Management 
service for yachts under construction or undergoing a 
refit can be provided onsite at the shipyard or from  
the YCO Management offices in Monaco and the Gulf. 
YCO Gr Oup OpErat ES w It HIn t HE Sup Er Ya CHt 
SECt Or, w HEr E a S up Er Ya CHt IS GE n Erall Y 
COn SId Er Ed t O BE an Y Ya CHt Gr Eat Er  
t Han 24 M (80Ft) I n l En Gt H
ma Rk Ets, sE ct ORs & gEO g Raph Ic pRE sEnc E  OVERVIEW
05
yc O g ROup plc annual RE pORt & acc Ounts 2009
YCO Crew r ecruitment provides crew search and 
placement services for superyachts on a pay-per-
placement basis. YCO Crew is one of the most  
prominent agencies in Europe, and operates from 
a ntibes and palma. at inception in 2007, YCO invested 
heavily in developing software which facilitates  
advanced registration and search facilities. t he database 
has several thousand qualified yacht crew registered. 
yacht f u El sERVI c Es 
Yacht Fuel Services was founded over 20 years ago as  
a fuel brokerage for yachts worldwide. l ongstanding 
relationships with the world’s major producers of  
marine fuel, offer YFS yachts access to premium grade 
yacht fuel, helicopter fuel, oil and lubricants. In addition 
to competitive pricing, the company aims to distinguish 
itself from competition by offering credit terms, free 
voyage planning and providing fuel in more remote 
cruising areas. YFS operates from l ondon headquarters 
and in France, but has delivered fuel worldwide in 2009. 
yacht hE lp gRO up 
Yacht Help Group provides provisions, spare parts, crew 
assistance, shipyard logistics and tax/customs consultancy. 
r evenue is generated on margins for resale items and 
fees for services.
YHG offices are strategically positioned in the key 
yachting locations of a ntibes, palma and Barcelona. In 
palma, YHG is one of the only companies to offer this 
breadth of service and in France the market is less well 
established, with fewer competitors. In Barcelona, YHG 
is considered a leading supplier due to excellent relations 
with local shipyards and competitive prices. 06
What a RE  
cE nt Ral a g Ency y achts?
While any brokerage house can sell or charter any yacht on the market to its clients,  
the majority of yachts available for sale or charter have central agency (ca) agreements in place  
with one or two named brokerage houses. the ca takes on the responsibility and associated cost  
of managing and marketing the yacht’s sales and charter activities. 
ca yachts do not provide visible revenue in a specified period, however upon their sale or charter  
(even if achieved by a third party) the central agent will receive a guaranteed portion of the commission. 
a large number of good quality ca yachts can improve the company’s visibility in the  
marketplace, however there is an additional cost of sales and marketing, which is not  
applicable when representing only the Buyer.  OVERVIEW
07
yc O g ROup plc annual RE pORt & acc Ounts 2009
myBa 
ycO is a full corporate member of the mediterranean yacht Brokers association, founded in 1984 to 
promote standards of professionalism in the yachting industry. 
my Ba only endorses membership to brokerage houses with a proven track record of professional 
excellence, offering valuable benefits and safeguards to clients choosing to purchase, sell, build or charter  
a yacht through a myB a broker. 
myB a enjoys international recognition and the contract used by ycO has been drafted in conjunction 
with a team of international maritime lawyers to protect the interest of all parties. It remains the world’s 
most universally employed charter contract.
