 10
In 2009, the Group successfully achieved a turnaround to 
report a maiden profit for the year following the losses 
reported for both 2008 and the first half of 2009.
key factors driving the performance recovery have been:
successful completion of Group restructuring at both ■ ■
corporate and management level
reductions within the business cost base ■ ■
strengthened teams and expanded operations in ■ ■
brokerage.
a s a result, the Group exceeded the Board’s expectations 
in Yacht Brokerage, which generates the highest margins, 
while increasing our market share in Yacht Management.
t he Group has also continued to reinvest in corporate 
structure and It systems to ensure that it is well placed 
and well structured to leverage the anticipated upturn in 
the market.
r eview of Bu Sine SS o peration S:
BROkER ag E
t he Board was prudent in its expectations for 2009, in 
anticipation of the effects of the economic downturn. 
However the Group took the opportunity to strengthen 
the team, introduce a specialist division handling luxury 
sailing yachts and continue to develop advanced customer 
management systems.
d uring 2009, YCO Brokerage was involved in two of  
the most prominent superyacht sales in the industry.
manag EmEnt
YCO Management operates from two offices with 23 staff, 
generating revenue from contracted monthly retainers  
for Yacht Management, project Management and from 
additionally priced one-off services and consultancy.
YCO Management continued to develop systems and 
services in accordance with its strategy, to ensure its 
clients receive the best possible service. t he division 
completed the roll-out of the (client management 
software) YCO l Iv E to all yachts and introduced the 
YCO v ISa debit card.
a s a result, and due to the increased number of existing 
yacht owners looking for improved cost control,  
YCO Management continued to grow the number of 
contracted yachts.
cREW R Ec Ru Itm Ent
In a highly competitive market, YCO Crew lowered its 
fees to remain competitively priced. a s a result of  
this reduction in margins, combined with a less active 
marketplace, management took measures to reduce 
overheads and to recalibrate the business. t he division 
remains under review as part of the wider ongoing 
restructuring programme.
yacht f u El sERVI c Es
Operating with four staff from headquarters in l ondon 
with an office in the South of France, Yacht Fuel Services 
generates revenue through the sale of fuels and lubricants 
to superyachts.
w hile YFS benefited from a fall in fuel prices, it was 
affected by reduced movement of yachts and fewer 
trans-atlantic crossings. t he Company took steps at the 
tHE Gr Oup’ S d Iv Er SE Bu SIn ESS MOd El and 
COMpl EMEntar Y r Ev Enu E Str Ea MS Hav E BEEn  
a d ECISIv E Fa Ct Or In t HE Gr Oup’ S 
turnar Ound I n 2009
ch IEf E x Ecut IVE’s REpORt
c ha Rl Es BIRkE tt
CHIEF Ex ECut Iv E OFFICEr 11
yc O g ROup plc annual RE pORt & acc Ounts 2009
Bus In Ess REVIEW
beginning of the year to reduce marketing costs in 
preparation for the adverse trading conditions.
YFS maintained its strong position in the market, making 
multiple deliveries to 240 unique yachts of over 30 
metres. Increased margins helped to offset a reduction  
in tonnage sold, and overall the division performed in line 
with management’s expectations.
yacht hE lp gRO up
at the beginning of the year, Yacht Help Group operated 
from three offices with 15 permanent staff, generating 
revenue through the supply of concierge services and 
provisions to superyachts.
d uring the year, the division suffered from the reduced 
number of yachts in transit. a s a result of this the decision 
was taken to reduce the workforce to 10 full time staff, 
with a stronger focus on developing business in the key 
locations of a ntibes and Barcelona.
In particular, the shipyard based provisioning and 
concierge services performed strongly during the year 
and these will continue to be developed as a key area of 
the business in the future.
Summary
It has been the Board’s priority to take the necessary steps in 
2009 to ensure that the Group emerges from the economic 
downturn a stronger and more efficient business and one 
which is well placed to deliver future growth.
In what has been the most challenging of environments, 
the results for 2009 have demonstrated significant 
progress. r ecognition for this achievement must go to 
the whole YCO Group team, as it is the hard work of all 
st Rat Eg y & s t REngths
Br Eadt H OF SErv ICES ■ ■
FInan CIal ■ ■
tran Spar En CY 
Exp Er IEn CE OF ■ ■
pEr SOnn El
d ISCr Et IOn and ■ ■
pr OFESSIOnal ISM
Inn Ovat IOn ■ ■
of our employees which has enabled the restructuring 
of the Group to be achieved so successfully.
o utlook YCO Group continues to benefit from income from 
sales completed in the latter part of 2009 and has 
achieved some smaller transactions in the first part of 
2010 which are encouraging.
t he Group’s diverse business model and complementary 
revenue streams have also been a decisive factor in  
the Group’s turnaround during 2009, in what was a 
challenging market.
w hile it is clear that the market has shown some signs 
of recovery, the Board still expects continuing pressure 
on fees and commissions, therefore it will continue to 
focus on the cross-selling of the Group’s services whilst 
seeking to improve margins.
t he Group will continue to seek to improve its  
service offering and to invest in marketing initiatives,  
It and finance reporting systems, as well as looking  
to reduce corporate overheads further, where 
appropriate. t here are consolidation opportunities in 
the market and the Board is considering its approach  
to growth and investigating possible future expansion 
opportunities.
t he completed restructuring programme gives the 
business a great opportunity, with a strengthened 
management and service offering, to increase our share 
of the superyacht services market going forward. t his 
combined with the continued, gradual recovery of the 
market leads us to approach the future with optimism.
