 10_Yell Group plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Oﬃcer’s strategic overview
John Condron
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
A strong performance in a very tough year
The last year has seen the toughest economic environment 
that any of us have ever experienced. The credit crunch, which
began in 2007, has turned into a global economic recession.
The confusion and the uncertainty has led to extreme caution
and a negative outlook on the part of small and medium-sized
enterprises – our core customer base – which has consequently
had a direct impact on our revenues. 
We have addressed the recession by taking early steps to reduce
our own costs and increase eﬃciency; by focusing on driving 
the usage of our products and services and demonstrating their
cost-eﬀectiveness to our customers; by continuing aggressively 
to grow our internet services and revenues; and by focusing on
customer retention, maintaining high rates of customer loyalty.
As a consequence, Yell has delivered EBITDA at broadly 
the same level as last year with substantially increased cash 
ﬂows and decreased leverage, whilst continuing to invest in 
our future. Given the economic backcloth, that is a creditable
business performance, and I would like to sincerely thank all
14,000 Yell people for the huge eﬀort made in this exceptionally
challenging year.
Regrettably, the economic pressure on our revenue, concerns
over our level of debt in what has been an illiquid credit market
and a lack of conﬁdence in the global directories sector generally,
has resulted in a very signiﬁcant decline in our share price. This is
obviously a great concern, and everyone at Yell is committed to
reversing this decline by demonstrating to all our stakeholders
the continuing value of our products and services and the
strength of our business model.
Yell oﬀers quality business leads 
Our 1.6 million customers choose to advertise with us because
they want real business enquiries and they know that is what Yell
delivers. They know consumers use our products once they have
made a decision to buy, not browse. And they also know that our
multichannel platform means that we will bring them these leads
via the search channel preferred by the consumer. 
Print continues to generate great value for customers. We know
this because we measure it. Indeed, we are so conﬁdent about
the continuing value of print advertising that, over the last year,
we have signiﬁcantly increased the number of monitored telephone
lines that we have made available to our print customers. These
lines provide the customer with a telephone number that is
unique to their Yell print advertising. All calls to these lines are
monitored – enabling us to prove the value we deliver.
We have also continued to invest in our internet channels. 
The results of this can be seen in our usage numbers which
increased throughout the year with all countries increasing
internet user numbers by around 25% in March. This has led to
the substantial growth of our internet revenues, which are now
15% of total Group revenues. We are continuing to build on this
success with the recruitment of a number of highly experienced
New Media specialists who are helping to ensure we are best
placed to continue our success story in the internet space. 
As technology evolves, we fully intend to be at the forefront 
to the extent such technology enhances our ability to deliver
quality leads to our customers. For example, this year we have
further developed our mobile search capabilities, ensuring our
data is easily usable on an increasing number of devices. And 
the inclusion of 2-D bar codes in our print advertising is a great
example of new technologies being applied to add value to our
traditional print products. Yell Group plc Annual Report 2009_11
Performance Chief Executive Oﬃcer’s strategic overview
Our focus on usage, regardless of channel, is the key to our
success. It is why we invest substantially in driving usage to 
our products and services – through traditional advertising 
and promotion and, increasingly, through search engine
optimisation and marketing. 
Six markets, one approach
Each of our operations is managed at a local level with local
management. This means they understand and are able to 
react to the diﬀerent opportunities each market presents. 
That said, in each of the markets, you will ﬁnd the same
underlying focus on driving usage and delivering value. Our
customer strategy in each of our markets is very simple – Win,
Keep and Grow – albeit in this diﬃcult economy, our priority is
customer retention (Keep); rather than winning or growing.
In the UK, this was the ﬁrst year in which we published books
under the RPI – 0% price control. This followed several years 
of operating under an RPI – 6% restriction. This signiﬁcant
loosening of price regulation will, we believe, enhance our 
ability to compete eﬀectively in the ever-growing market for
business leads; albeit its impact in the current year has been 
counterbalanced by the prevailing economic environment. 
In the internet space, we have continued to improve Yell.com
with better search functionality, new products and content
features that improve our customers’ ‘ﬁndability’ on both
Yell.com and the web generally. We recently announced 
that we have reached an agreement to sell Google AdWords 
in the UK. This is another step to delivering more leads to 
our customers. 
In the US, the competitive landscape continues to evolve. 
The very heavily indebted incumbent publishers have continued
to post revenue declines throughout the year and have begun 
to close some of their unproﬁtable companion and expansion
directories. At the same time, they have continued to compete
much more aggressively on price – albeit on an ad hoc basis
which makes direct comparisons with our rate card more diﬃcult.
The independent publishers, which had increased in number over
recent years, are also facing diﬃculties. The economic downturn
has seen their access to credit and customer spend restricted 
and we have seen far fewer launches coupled with an increase 
in withdrawals from the market.
Our response in the US has been to continue to compete in every
market, focusing on value and service. In print, we have decreased
the size of our books to make them easier to use and continued
to beneﬁt from our national footprint. Online, we have continued
to develop our yellowbook.com site; adding new functionality
such as ratings and reviews and electronic coupons. 
In Spain, the back to basics approach is going as planned,
although the severe economic downturn is masking many of 
the integration beneﬁts. The sales force is better trained and
more appropriately incentivised than prior to the acquisition. The
product portfolio has been rationalised and we have completed
the unbundling of products, giving our customers much better
visibility of relative value.
In Latin America, we continue to take advantage of growing
economies with strong print and internet businesses in Argentina,
Chile and Peru.
Managing through the recession
Yell meets a fundamental business need – the need to deliver
quality business leads for our advertising customers. That 
need is never going to go away, and we are highly eﬃcient 
and cost-eﬀective in meeting that need.
Our customers recognise this and recognise that our strength 
is not just in printed directories, but also in internet local search
and telephone-based services – both ﬁxed line and mobile.
These are the reasons for our high customer loyalty today, 
and they are the reasons why each of our markets oﬀer 
growth opportunities when the economic recovery comes – 
as it surely will. 
Over the last 18 months, we have ensured we are best 
positioned to withstand the economic pressures, and to take
advantage of economic recovery. We have reduced our cost 
base by £250 million by reviewing all our activities and processes,
improving sales force eﬃciency, rescheduling publishing schedules,
automating processes and improving our customer targeting.
This means we are now operating more eﬃciently than ever
before and this has given us the capacity to continue investing 
in our business.
Our key asset is our people – not only our best in class sales
force, which is eﬀectively the sales and marketing department 
of so many small businesses, but also all those who work 
so hard and so eﬀectively in making sure we deliver the best
possible products and service to our customers. We will always
continue to invest in our people, and I am proud we have again
been recognised as an Investor in People in the UK and listed 
as one of the top 50 service companies to sell for in the US.
The future
Last year has not been easy; nor will this year be. But we 
have taken the necessary actions and will continue to do so. 
We have produced ﬁnancial results as guided. We shall continue
to manage our business aggressively and ensure Yell remains 
the best source of business leads in all our markets. Looking
forward, we have the business model, the organisation, the team
to manage through the tough times and seize the opportunities
we expect to arise as the economy recovers.
John Condron
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
