 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2009_03
Overview Highlights / Welcome to Yell – Chairman’s statement
Welcome to Yell – Chairman’s statement
This has proved to be a very tough year for Yell and for the
economy in general. In this context, delivering last year’s
guidance of broadly ﬂat EBITDA (at constant exchange rates)
has been no small achievement. The process improvements
implemented throughout the year mean that the business is
now running more eﬃciently than ever. The associated cost
beneﬁts, as well as the continued rapid growth of our internet
businesses, partially oﬀset the decline in print revenue leaving 
an underlying 4.6% reduction in group revenue.
Our reported results reﬂect the beneﬁt of the weaker pound with
our revenue up 8.1% to £2,397.9 million and a 10.4% growth in
EBITDA to £816.1 million, with adjusted earnings per share (EPS)
up 9.3%. At constant exchange rates, adjusted EPS was down
3.5%. Reported EPS was signiﬁcantly down, mainly due to the
one-oﬀ write-down of goodwill associated with the acquisition 
of Yell Publicidad (TPI). This write-down reﬂects the reductions 
in asset values as a result of the economic recession and our
revised forecasts for the business, reﬂecting the severity of the
economic downturn in Spain. The carrying value of the UK and
US businesses are unaﬀected.
Our operating cash performance was particularly strong at
£730.2 million (up 16.6% or 4.9% at constant currency) as we
again increased the proportion of EBITDA we convert to cash.
This cash was more than adequate to service both the interest 
on our debt and capital payments and, in the year, we repaid
£232 million of capital in accordance with the agreed repayment
schedule. Since our debt is denominated in the same currencies
as our earnings, the weaker pound resulted in our reported net
debt increasing to just over £4.2 billion; but our leverage
decreased to 4.7 times EBITDA. 
We continue to oﬀer excellent value to our customers as we remain
their best source of business leads, regardless of channel. Print
remains a very signiﬁcant source of valuable leads and the year
saw us take increasing steps to prove this value. At the same time,
internet usage and revenue has increased in all our countries
and we continue to enhance the value we deliver to both users
and customers. 
The Board remains conﬁdent that our core business proposition
is as relevant as ever. 
Concerns over the revenue impact of the economic downturn and
over our level of debt have interacted to result in a signiﬁcant
decline in our share price. This is a key concern for all of us on
the Board. I can assure you that one of our overriding priorities 
is to resolve our capital structure issues. This will then enable 
the business, without distraction, to deliver revenue and proﬁt
growth when the economic recovery eventually comes. 
During the year, we committed to reduce our leverage to below
four times net debt to EBITDA and, to assist this, we cancelled 
the dividend which we had halved last May. The Board does not
propose to reinstate a dividend until our leverage is below four
times EBITDA.
There are a number of Board changes taking place at the 
Annual General Meeting this year. Both Lord Powell and I will 
not be seeking re-election. Lord Powell has been a member of
the Board since before the Company ﬂoated and his contribution
has been greatly valued. Carlos Espinosa de los Monteros who
has extensive business experience with leading corporations in
Spain joined the Board in May and will be seeking election for
the ﬁrst time. We welcome his participation on the Board.
In completing my seven-year involvement with this group I would
like to take this opportunity to wish the Board and management
every success in the years ahead. The capital structure issues are
a challenge but outstanding operational performance is continually
being enhanced. This is a talented and experienced management
team, who have delivered a very strong operational performance
against the backdrop of an exceptionally hostile environment. 
I am conﬁdent they will ensure that the business recovers strongly
when the economic environment improves.
At the end of this report you will ﬁnd the Notice of the Annual
General meeting which gives full details of the meeting and the
resolutions on which I ask you to vote. The AGM will be held on
24 July 2009 at the oﬃces of Herbert Smith, Exchange House,
Primrose Street London, EC2A 2ED.
I look forward to meeting you then.
Bob Scott
Chairman
Welcome to the Y ell Group plc 
Annual Report for the ﬁnancial
year ended 31 March 2009.
Bob Scott
Chairman
