 2 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003
Significant progress
This has been a year of significant progress.
We have continued to build on our good first
half and have delivered full year results to
plan. In parallel, we have made good
progress on stabilising major programmes in
the UK. We remain committed to the twin
objectives of improving our performance to
meet the expectations of our customers and
delivering enhanced shareholder value. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a maintained
final ordinary dividend of 5.5p per share,
making a total for the year of 9.2p per
share. Subject to shareholder approval at
the 2004 Annual General Meeting, the
dividend will be paid on 1 June 2004 to
holders of ordinary shares registered on 
23 April 2004.
A strong company
We remain focused on leveraging the strong
positions and relationships we enjoy in key
markets.   
“We remain committed to the twin objectives
of improving our performance to meet the
expectations of our customers and
delivering enhanced shareholder value.”
We have a robust and productive relationship
with the UK Ministry of Defence and are a
firmly established constituent of the US
defence industry where we continue to grow
our position. In continental Europe we have
strong positions on key programmes such as
Typhoon and are a proud and active partner
in Airbus.  
Underpinning these positions is world-class
technology and the expertise of our people.
This is illustrated by the high quality of
entries for our annual Chairman’s Award for
Innovation which this year attracted a record
3,000 entries from across the company.
Corporate governance and Board changes 
The Board and I take our obligations
regarding corporate governance very
seriously. The Board has reviewed the new
Combined Code on Corporate Governance
for UK listed companies. Whilst we are not
required to report formally our compliance
against the new code until next year, we
recognise that it is the most recent
authoritative statement on best practice for
companies and therefore later in this report
we disclose how we stand relative to its
provisions. 
Chairman’s letter to shareholders
  BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 3
Sir Peter Mason and Michael Hartnall joined
the Board in 2003; both possess a good deal
of relevant experience and knowledge and are
valuable additions to the Board. Sir Charles
Masefield, Sir Robin Biggam and Keith Brown
all retired from the Board during the year and
Paolo Scaroni will be retiring from the Board
at the conclusion of this year’s Annual
General Meeting.
Business transformation
In recent years BAE Systems has undergone
a radical transformation from a UK-based
aircraft manufacturer to a broadly-based
systems business. Through this
transformation the company has achieved a
more balanced portfolio and geographic
spread. Today BAE Systems is one of a small
group of companies at the top of the world’s
aerospace and defence industry. 
Looking forward we have taken clear steps to
remove impediments to future progress in our
UK Programmes business. We are well
positioned in our key markets and our order
book remains strong.
Sir Richard Evans
Chairman
25 February 2004
