 Management 
and Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05
Chairman’s Statement
Business Review Overview
Roger Parry
In the year ended 31 July 2010, YouGov has made good 
progress in terms of strengthening our Company’s 
operations and developing new services for our customers. 
The Group’s management has achieved all of the 
goals which the Board set for them at the start  
of the period, in particular that of improving 
operating profitability.
Consistent with this and as anticipated, the second-half 
performance was stronger than the first both in revenue  
and profit terms. We also maintained our strong cash 
generation in the full year . This was all achieved against  
the background of continued economic uncertainty .
Financial Results
Revenue for the financial year of £44.2m was at the same 
level as last year , although the second half year saw an 
increase of 5% compared with the prior year . This reflected 
a mixture of success at winning new work, especially in the 
UK and USA, offset by the expected reduction in spend by 
some established clients, notably in the Middle East. With 
continued tight control of operating costs, we have been 
able to increase adjusted operating profit for the year by 
22% to £3.8m. The cash generated from operations totalled 
£4.9m, representing a profit conversion rate of 130% and 
our cash balance increased by £2.7m in the year to £15.6m. 
Adjusted profit before tax was £4.0m (2009: £3.9m) 
although there was a reported loss before tax in the year of 
£9.6m (2009: £0.7m) after charging amortisation, impairment 
and exceptional costs totalling £13.4m. These comprised 
amortisation of intangibles of £3.7m, exceptional costs of 
£1.8m and a goodwill impairment charge of £7.9m relating 
to our German subsidiary . 
Organic Development and Acquisitions
When YouGov was founded in 2000 it was a pioneer of 
internet research techniques. As the use of online data 
collection methods has become more widely adopted, 
YouGov’s priority has been to invest in the development 
 of new market research techniques and technologies.  
We expect that this will lead to further revenue growth  
as we roll out new and more effective research services.
As a result of the actions taken during the last year , YouGov 
now has a more consistent approach across all of its 
operating hubs which should provide a solid base for future 
growth in profits, especially through continued improvement 
in operating margins. 
Going forward, the Board is focused on using the successful 
core UK business as the model for expansion internationally 
which will be largely organic. We now have the technology 
platform in place which we believe will enable us to serve 
customers in new geographic markets and are rolling out 
our products to meet demand. We will, however , continue  
to consider the selective acquisition of businesses that 
strengthen our existing operations and from which we can 
derive further benefits of scale.  Business Review Management 
and Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
06 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Overview
Chairman’s Statement continued
On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would like to 
thank Nadhim for his entrepreneurial energy and his role 
with Stephan in taking YouGov from a start-up to becoming 
one of the world’s best known and most respected market 
research companies in the space of ten years. We wish him 
well in his new political career .
In August 2010, we appointed a new Non-Executive 
Director , Ben Elliot, who is the founder of Quintessentially 
and will bring additional international, entrepreneurial and 
leisure sector expertise to the YouGov Board.
Roger Parry 
Chairman
11 October 2010
This is exactly what we have done in the past year in the 
USA which we regard as our highest potential growth market 
having demonstrated the quality of our panel, methodology , 
and technology . We purchased Clear Horizons in Princeton, 
New Jersey in April 2009 which has proved to be a very 
successful acquisition, leading to good new client wins. 
Consistent with this approach, we completed in August  
(after the end of the current reporting period) the acquisition 
of Harrison Group, based in Waterbury , Connecticut, which 
further enhances our US corporate research offering. The 
Board believes that these businesses, combined with 
YouGovPolimetrix (our first US acquisition in 2007),  
will provide us with a strong base from which to continue  
to expand in the USA. The transaction terms are structured 
conservatively so as to help ensure sustainable growth and 
our management team has undertaken extensive work  
to plan and execute the successful integration of the 
American businesses. 
Board and Management 
In February 2010, Nadhim Zahawi, the co-founder  
and Chief Executive Officer of YouGov , was adopted as the 
Parliamentary candidate for Stratford-on-Avon. He won  
the seat in the subsequent General Election, at which  
point he stood down as a Director of YouGov . 
Stephan Shakespeare, YouGov’s co-founder and Chief 
Innovations Officer who had been joint Chief Executive 
Officer until 2005, took over as sole CEO with effect from 
April 2010. Stephan has placed increased focus on aligning 
all of the hubs with the original core strengths of YouGov 
and building on these to deliver strong organic growth.  
He has also continued to drive YouGov’s innovations in 
research methods and technology so as to deliver more 
new products into the market.
