 Overview Management 
and Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07
Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Report for the year ended 31 July 2010
YouGov has begun the next phase of its development, 
having fixed significant problems, clarified its strategy for 
growth, and developed new research products to drive  
the Group forward. The actions taken have resulted in a 
22% growth in adjusted operating profits during the last 
financial year .
In the last year , our UK business delivered an impressive 
performance growing revenue and profits and taking 
operating margins back to over 27%. We have brought the 
Scandinavian business back into profit as anticipated at the 
half year . In the USA, we continued to make good headway 
with BrandIndex, and have acquired a company whose 
commercial market research expertise significantly 
strengthens our offering and will make fuller use of the 
“engine” (i.e. the panel and the technology) that we have 
built there. In the Middle East we have appointed the head 
of our UK products business as CEO to reinforce the focus 
of the local business on the online quantitative work best 
suited to our methods. In Germany , the online products 
business is growing well and we have begun to re-engineer 
the processes in the custom business utilising the Group’s 
technology platform. However , progress towards higher 
profitability in Germany has been slower than hoped.
We have streamlined operations and strengthened the 
Group-level leadership of our business units, which allows 
us to implement our strategy more effectively and capitalise 
on the strength of our methodology and significant 
investment in technology . Because we have recognised – 
and addressed – the areas which needed improvement,  
we have set a clearer strategy for growth and laid the 
foundations for its delivery . 
It is significant that the parts of our business that 
have continued to grow even in the recession are 
those which are closest to YouGov’s original and 
core offering. Replicating this in other markets is 
now our strategic priority. 
When YouGov was pioneering internet-based research 
some ten years ago, the principal benefits were lower costs 
and greater speed. Online is now accepted as the way  
to do research and as the pace of change and innovation  
in communities and markets speeds up, companies are 
increasingly coming to us for continuous data and analysis 
to steer their own development in the face of that 
demanding environment. YouGov’s rich panel-derived data, 
reported and analysed in real time, is ideally suited to that 
challenge. Because our techniques of panel management 
and data analysis have become more sophisticated,  
we are now in a position to really “take the pulse” of opinion 
through constant interaction. The initial response to these 
developments from our large research clients has been 
very positive.
One of the early examples of this was the recent General 
Election in the UK where we conducted polling on a daily 
basis on behalf of News International. This gave an 
extremely accurate indication of voting intention as was 
evidenced by the fact that YouGov was the first polling 
company to report that the probable outcome would be  
a hung parliament and the first to report the extraordinary 
success experienced by the Liberal Democrat Party in  
the televised debates. Also in this context, we have started 
to embrace the technology of Twitter and the greatly 
increased penetration of smartphones to allow panellists  
to volunteer their instant opinions on a wide range of issues 
through our TellYouGov website.
Building on this, we have been developing some new 
products which will shortly come to market, as well as 
enhancing existing ones. For example, we have been 
collaborating with Bloomberg to provide reports and 
research data products to the investment community and 
expect the first outputs to be issued in October 2010.  
We are also aligning our custom research to make better 
use of the strengths of our methodology and real-time 
research products. 
Our position as a media brand is important to 
YouGov not only because of the visibility it creates 
for clients, but because it also enriches the 
experience of being on the YouGov panel – and 
our sophisticated panel technology lies at the core 
of our research offering and our growth strategy.
Stephan Shakespeare Overview Management 
and Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
08 YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Business Review
It is therefore pleasing to report that not only has  
our dominance in the UK public culture continued to 
develop with daily polling and a series of new trackers and 
methods, but our recognition as a quality research brand 
has also grown in other countries, with significant media 
relationships now in place in the USA, Middle East, Germany 
and Scandinavia.
Current Trading and Prospects
The momentum seen in the second half has continued  
into the current year and trading is in line with the Board’s 
expectations. We expect our UK business to continue its 
good performance and to see further growth in the USA 
supported by our recent acquisitions. Our Scandinavian 
business expects to build on its second half performance 
through the coming year . Our Middle East business will 
maintain its strategy of growing locally generated business. 
Germany is expected to benefit from the continued growth 
in the online products business and the actions being taken 
to improve profitability .
There is greater optimism in the research market generally 
and revenues from new products are coming through as 
expected. This coupled with the positioning of the YouGov 
platform and the strength of our balance sheet gives the 
Board confidence in the future. 
Review of Operations
UK 
Our UK business improved operating profits by 70%  
on revenues which were 9% higher than the prior year .  
It achieved revenues of £12.1m, which increased by £1m 
compared to the year ended 31 July 2009. Operating profits 
improved significantly to £3.4m as did the operating margin, 
up from 18% to 28%. This excellent profit performance 
reflected the benefits of last year’s restructuring of the 
custom business which improved the effectiveness of  
the sector-based teams as well as reducing their costs. 
Revenue growth reflects additional contributions from our 
products business, notably our market-leading Omnibus 
service which expanded its international and UK regional 
coverage and grew revenue by 12% and from polling for the 
UK General Election. Our sector-based client teams have 
also been extending their client base winning significant 
projects from clients such as the Office of Fair Trading and 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report for the year ended 31 July 2010 continued
Pfizer and as well as renewing major contracts with clients 
such as Asda, Costa Coffee and News International. 
An important new business development this year was the 
launch of SixthSense, our new business intelligence service 
that provides in-depth reports on a range of sectors 
drawing on YouGov’s primary research data as well as other 
specialist data sources and expert views. Sales began in 
the second half of the year and are expected to grow 
significantly next year with over 108 report titles covering 36 
topic areas already available. This investment is expected to 
become cash positive in the first quarter of the year ending 
31 July 2011. 
Middle East
In the Middle East, overall revenues were 14% lower at £7.2m 
compared to £8.4m in the previous year and operating profits 
were £1.4m, compared to £2.8m. This was due to the expected 
reduction in revenue from a major long-term contract which 
fell by £1.9m. Importantly, locally generated business grew 
by 30% showing that our strategy of investing to build this 
up is bearing fruit. This business now represents 40% of the 
overall Middle Eastern revenue. A key aim has been to grow 
our online services in the region and to this end Sundip 
Chahal, formerly head of our UK products business, was 
appointed as CEO of the Middle East business in April 
2010. We also re-organised the local team so as to focus 
resources on key growth areas. This reduced the headcount 
by nine and the cost base by £0.5m annually . An enhanced 
regional Omnibus service is now available and BrandIndex 
which was launched in August 2009 has grown sales well. 
The strength of our regional online panel was demonstrated 
by the recent announcement of a contract to provide 
pioneering weekly polling for Al Aan TV a pan-regional, 
Arab language broadcaster . Our Saudi Arabia operation 
grew revenue by 60% and we have also begun to generate 
commercial research sales revenue in Iraq.
Germany
Revenues in our German business were £13.8m, 7% lower 
than the prior year figure of £14.8m. In part this reflected the 
closure of the Austrian research operation which had been 
loss-making. However , the new online products business 
nearly doubled its revenues reflecting the successful growth 
of the new daily Omnibus service launched in September  Overview Management 
and Governance
Financial Statements Additional Information
  YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2010 09
Business Review
2009 as well as continued growth of BrandIndex sales. 
Following YouGov’s original model, a partnership has been 
established with Bild, one of Germany’s leading daily 
newspapers, which has provided valuable media exposure 
to help build awareness of YouGov and the benefits of 
online methods in Germany . This reflects our objective of 
replicating our successful UK model in other markets. The 
custom research side of the business has been broadening 
its sectoral spread and has gained significant new clients 
such as BMW, Fujitsu Siemens and Sanofi-Aventis. This 
adds to its strength in retail banking and insurance (where 
clients include Axa, Zurich Insurance and a number of 
regional banks). Operating costs were reduced by £0.8m 
compared to the previous year , but after a promising first 
half, profitability in the second was disappointing due in part 
to lower than expected gross margins resulting from a high 
proportion of external data collection costs for some large 
projects. Thus, operating profit for the full year was £0.4m 
compared to £0.7m in the year to 31 July 2009. 
We are expecting further significant growth in the online 
products area in the coming year and in the custom 
business we are re-engineering the business processes 
based around the Group’s technology so as to improve 
efficiency and increase operating margins. Although 
corrective actions are being taken, the impact of the trading 
performance has been judged to be sufficiently severe to 
indicate impairment to the carrying value of our German 
subsidiary . An impairment charge has therefore been made 
to reduce the value of goodwill and intangible assets.
Scandinavia
The measures taken in November 2009 to turn around our 
Scandinavian business were successful and as expected  
it was sufficiently profitable in the second half to offset  
the losses in the first half. As a result, it achieved a small 
profit for the full year of £0.1m on revenues of £7.0m which 
were 6% lower than the prior year . We believe that this 
pan-regional business whose research is entirely online  
is now structured so as to achieve good margins for its 
market. We are also continuing to increase regional 
revenues from YouGov’s products such as BrandIndex 
which has a number of local clients and Omnibus which 
was launched there this year . The business’s main strengths 
are in the food and drink sector , with clients such as 
Coca-Cola and Procordia and major clients in other sectors 
this year included Danske Bank and Sony Ericsson. 
USA
As expected, our US business grew revenue by 39% to 
£4.8m and more than doubled operating profit to £0.5m 
following a strong performance in the second half of the 
year reflecting a number of significant project wins. We 
have been successful in our key aim of growing the share 
of commercial (i.e. non-political or academic) revenue 
which rose by 86% in the year . This includes the new 
Marketing Insights division (acquired as Clear Horizons LLC 
in April 2009) which met its first year earn-out target and 
whose acquisition has helped the US business to win more 
complex commercial research projects. BrandIndex has 
also contributed to this growth by doubling its revenues and 
winning new clients such as Domino’s Pizza and Pepsico.  
It is helping to build YouGov’s reputation for innovation in the 
US market and its value as a unique source of daily data on 
brand reputation is now being recognised in influential US 
media such as the Wall Street Journal and New York Times. 
We continue to expand the range of services offered in  
the USA and recently launched HospitalIndex, a new 
syndicated product which gives healthcare providers a 
measure of consumers’ attitudes and perceptions towards 
an area’s hospitals. Its early sales performance has 
been encouraging. 
The acquisition of Harrison Group which was completed 
after the period end is a further step in the process of 
scaling up our commercial market research business in the 
USA. As well as bringing an excellent client list and innovative 
syndicated products such as its Survey of Affluence and 
Wealth in America and the newly released American Pantry 
study, it adds a team of 35 significantly enhancing our 
capabilities and more than doubling our US revenue base. 
The acquisition is expected to be earnings enhancing in the 
first full year following completion.
Stephan Shakespeare  
Chief Executive Officer
11 October 2010
+
