 Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     7
Chief Executive’s Review for the year ended 31 July 2011
We are pleased to report another year of significant revenue 
and profit growth, building on the progress made last year. 
As expected, our performance in the second half of this 
financial year followed a similar trend to that in the first half. 
Our Group’s full-year revenue increased by 27% and adjusted 
operating profit by 40% compared to the prior year. While 
the recent US acquisitions of Harrison Group and Definitive 
Insights contributed to this performance, we also achieved  
healthy organic growth. Our UK, US and Nordic operations 
have all reported double-digit organic growth and gained 
market share.
The US is now our largest region in terms of revenue, with 
the newly acquired businesses performing ahead of original 
expectations and contributing significantly to Group profits. 
As importantly, they are fulfilling our objective of expanding 
YouGov’s US reach into the corporate research market and 
have added a number of US-based global brands to our client 
base. Our UK business continued to grow well and generate 
good margins as well as initiating the development of 
SixthSense, our new reports business. The Nordics completed 
its turnaround to profitability on a full-year basis, while the 
Middle East succeeded in delivering higher profits year-on-
year despite the expected reduction in revenue from a major 
long-term Iraqi contract. This demonstrates our ability to 
exploit new opportunities in the Middle East building on  
the strong relationships, reputation and panel that we have 
developed in the region. 
Overall, we have delivered in line with expectations. This was 
despite a disappointing performance in Germany where the 
benefits of the reorganisation of operations and management 
that we began this year have been slower to materialise than 
we hoped. However, since the new CEO took up his position 
shortly after the year end, the pace of improvement  
is accelerating.
During the last year we have expanded our philanthropic and 
educational reach by collaborating on projects with major 
UK Universities. At the beginning of 2011, YouGov entered 
into an academic partnership with the Department of Politics 
and International Studies at Cambridge University, to establish 
a think-tank and centre of excellence for public opinion 
research. The not-for-profit partnership was formally launched 
in September 2011. Earlier in the year, YouGov collaborated 
with Imperial College and University College London in a pilot 
of StartUp Summer, a development programme for student 
entrepreneurs, which was supported by StartUp Britain, a 
Government initiative to accelerate enterprise in the UK.
Looking Ahead
We continue to pursue our strategy of strengthening the 
foundations of our business while developing new products 
and markets – building on our core strengths and 
innovating for the future.
We will also continue to manage our cost base tightly and 
to ensure that we make best use of the engine we have 
built. That engine (the combination of high-response panel, 
technological platform for data collection and panel 
management, and our profile data library) cost-effectively 
delivers quality data and insight through a scalable model. 
There is additional potential for driving more value from that 
model and in the coming year we will further advance our 
products and our productised methodologies. We will also 
continue to harmonise our marketing and sales systems 
across the Group in particular to increase cross-border 
work. This will be one of the key priorities for the new senior 
management in EMEA and America. 
We will also be expanding into new geographies to meet 
growing demand for our core suite of online products.  
We have already established a new panel of over 50,000 
members in France which began to run its first commercial 
surveys in September 2011 and plan to open a sales office 
in Paris in November 2011. We are also actively evaluating 
entry strategies for other key markets.
BrandIndex, our flagship brand intelligence service, 
maintained its high growth, continuing to win new customers 
in all our markets resulting in revenue up by 35%. We have 
now developed a new version of the product, with major 
enhancements that will make it even easier for clients to 
integrate BrandIndex with their day-to-day management 
information. The new BrandIndex version is now being 
successfully trialled with two clients and will be rolled out 
across the US and UK over the course of the year.
SixthSense, our business intelligence service that 
combines primary research data with that from other 
sources as well as informed commentary, launched in the 
UK in 2010 and grew well in its first full financial year of 
operation. Its product list now comprises some 140 
reports whose scope ranges from a whole sector (such 
as Food and Drink) down to an in-depth study of a 
category (such as Baby Foods). In October 2010, we also 
developed (with Bloomberg) the first of a series of 
macro-data products: HEAT (Household Economic 
Activity Tracker) which measures consumer economic 
Stephan Shakespeare
Chief Executive Officer Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     8
Chief Executive’s Review for the year ended 31 July 2011 continued
covering 400 topic areas. Our sector-based custom research 
teams grew revenue by 7% and continued to add new 
clients such as Argos, the Penguin Group and Lawn Tennis 
Association while renewing major contracts with clients such 
as Asda, Costa Coffee and News International. Operating 
profits grew marginally to £3.5m due to a combination of 
lower gross margins which reflected a change of product 
mix, more international work and the investment of 
approximately £0.4m in SixthSense and in our sales and 
business delivery teams to support further growth.
USA
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July  % 
 2011 2010 % Organic  
 £m £m Change Change
Revenue 15.9 4.8 231% 32%
Operating Profit 1.9 0.5 280% 58%
Operating Profit  
Margin (%) 12% 10%  
Our US revenue has more than tripled this year compared  
to last due to strong organic growth (32%) in the original 
business as well as the acquisitions of Harrison Group in 
August 2010 and Definitive Insights in April 2011 which 
contributed combined revenue of some £9.6m.
As well as performing ahead of expectations, these 
acquisitions have, as intended, created a much more 
significant presence for YouGov in the US corporate research 
market alongside our historic political and academic 
strengths. Corporate clients now account for some 80%  
of our US revenue, with the acquired businesses bringing 
major clients such as GTECH, Microsoft and Panasonic.  
As they largely undertake their research using online methods, 
this has helped the integration process and offers further 
synergy benefits through migration of work to the YouGov 
panel. We have also drawn on the management resources 
they brought in with the appointment of Doss Struse, 
Managing Partner of Definitive Insights, as President in 
charge of operations of our entire US business, which was 
announced in August 2011. One of his initial tasks will be  
to complete the rebranding of our US custom research 
units under a single YouGov brand.
Within our original US business, BrandIndex continued  
to grow well, with revenue increasing by 55% over last year 
and new clients including Skechers and Kaplan Thaler. 
Marketing Insights (acquired in April 2009), which 
specialises in customer segmentation, also performed well 
with revenue up by 33% and met the targets for the current 
year of its earn-out. Its clients this year included Bloomberg 
and Panasonic. Political research remains important to the 
US business, and represented 10% of revenue this year due 
to the 2010 mid-term elections. It is pleasing to report the 
growing acceptance of online methods for political polling 
in the US, which is beginning to catch up with commercial 
research where it has been the norm for a number of years.
activity and confidence and now covers the UK, US and 
China. This will form part of the new reports business 
aimed at the investment community to be launched during 
the current financial year.
We will also be bringing to market a new data product that 
brings together existing YouGov methods with new data 
sources to provide clients with faster and more holistic 
information direct to their desktops. Given the ever- 
increasing consumer connectivity and empowerment, 
which creates rising uncertainty and volatility in markets, 
we believe that there will be a demand for the kind of 
continuous-flow primary data that YouGov can provide.
Finally, we are creating a new web presence with a greater 
emphasis on interactivity and experimentation to make being 
a member of the YouGov panel a more distinctive and 
worthwhile experience. The new website, which goes live  
in November, will support innovative tools for social media 
analysis and marketing. We believe that constantly 
improving the quality, size and responsiveness of the panel 
will become an increasingly important asset for our business 
which we believe is unique to the research industry.
Current Trading
We expect good revenue growth to continue this year despite 
the anticipated ending of the historic contract in Iraq by the 
end of 2011. YouGov remains committed to making additional 
investments in new products and geographical expansion 
which will support further growth. The current year will see 
further benefits from our US acquisitions and continued gains 
in other markets. We are also more confident of improving 
the German results with the new management in place.
Current trading is in line with the Board’s expectations and 
with our strong balance sheet we remain confident of our 
ability to meet our clients’ changing research needs despite 
increasing uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment.
Review of Operations
UK
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July 
 2011 2010 % 
 £m £m  Change
Revenue 13.7 12.1 13%
Operating Profit 3.5 3.4 3%
Operating Profit Margin (%) 24% 27% 
Our UK business has continued to perform well, with 
revenues 13% higher than the prior year. This strong 
growth, well ahead of the market, was largely due to our 
products business which grew by 22% overall. This area 
includes BrandIndex, which grew revenue by 29% and our 
market leading Omnibus service which grew by 16% as it 
continued to expand its international coverage. It also 
includes the first full-year contribution from SixthSense, our 
new business intelligence service. This provides in-depth 
reports on a range of sectors drawing on YouGov’s primary 
research data as well as other specialist data sources and 
expert views. Some 140 report titles are now available  Section 2  Business Review YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     9
Our German business is a substantial company in a major 
world market but is still only part way through the transition 
towards becoming an operation that fits with YouGov’s core 
model and its results clearly reflect this. Overall revenue 
declined by 9% on a like-for-like basis (after excluding the 
Great Place to Work business disposed of in December 
2010). However, the new online products business which 
started up two years ago and includes our flagship 
Omnibus and BrandIndex products continued its excellent 
performance, growing revenue by 90% to £1.3m. Its offer, 
which is new to the German market, has attracted many 
new clients to YouGov and it also has higher margins than 
the traditional business. As reported at the half year, revenue 
in the custom research business has been declining due to 
the financial services sector which was a traditional strength, 
although there has been progress in winning new clients  
in the automotive and technology sectors such as Masda, 
Fujitsu and Nokia Siemens. Some cost reductions have 
been achieved through the closure of one unprofitable 
custom team which will save £0.5m annually and the 
ongoing re-engineering of the core business processes. 
Following the appointment of Andreas Sperling, a former 
regional CEO of Millward Brown, as CEO, we believe that 
we now have the leadership in place to take the significant 
actions necessary to complete the transformation and 
enable YouGov to exploit the opportunities available  
in the German market.
Nordic
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July 
 2011 2010 % 
 £m £m  Change
Revenue 8.3 7.0 19%
Operating Profit 0.6 0.1 500%
Operating Profit Margin (%) 7% 1% 
In the full year, our Nordic business maintained the good 
performance reported at the half year and achieved 
revenue growth of 19% as well as a significant increase  
in profitability following the improvement measures taken 
last year. It gained market share with revenue growth of  
19% overall and 33% in Sweden, the region’s largest market 
where new business development was very successful. In 
February 2011, we launched a new Swedish political opinion 
service led by Lars Björkman, a recognised expert in the 
field. Our annual syndicated study, the Nordic Food and 
Health Survey has also attracted a number of new clients. 
The business’s major clients in the period included Nordisk 
Film Egmont, SonyEricsson and VisitSweden.
Stephan Shakespeare  
Chief Executive Officer 
10 October 2011
Middle East
 Year to Year to 
 31 July 31 July 
 2011 2010 % 
 £m £m  Change
Revenue 7.5 7.2 4%
Operating Profit 1.9 1.4 36%
Operating Profit Margin (%) 25% 19% 
We have been successful this year in our strategy of growing 
the size and profitability of the regionally generated business 
so as to offset the expected scaling down of a long-term 
contract in Iraq. This is reflected in a small overall revenue 
growth of 4% (6% in local currency terms) and a significant 
increase in annual operating profits helped by the full-year 
benefit of the cost reductions undertaken early in 2010. 
Locally generated revenue increased by 34% and now 
represents nearly 60% of the total. This reflected the planned 
expansion in online data services which more than tripled 
their revenue due to more aggressive marketing of our panel 
which now covers 21 countries in the Middle East and North 
Africa and continued growth in the client base for BrandIndex 
and Omnibus products. Our local custom research which 
focuses mainly on clients in the UAE and Saudi Arabia grew 
revenue by 21%. Major clients include Pepsico, Saudi Telecom 
and Johnson & Johnson. We have also established a 
collaboration with Al-Aan TV to provide surveys for their 
pan-regional Arab language channels in line with YouGov’s 
policy of gaining a higher profile through media engagement. 
While the political developments in the region during the year 
clearly create uncertainty, we believe that they will provide 
more opportunities for YouGov to generate value through our 
ability to provide up-to-date information on the views and 
attitudes of people across the Middle East. We have already 
demonstrated this through opinion polls we published on 
Egyptian and Pakistani views during the last year.
The revenue from our Iraq contract fell by 16% in the year as 
the client’s requirements for research continued to be scaled 
back. This will reduce further in the current year and we 
expect the contract to end by December 2011. We will build 
on the success of our regionally generated business which 
we expect will continue to grow significantly.
During the year we purchased the 22% minority interest in 
the Middle East business from the local shareholders. Full 
control of the business will help us to achieve our plans for 
further development.
Germany
 Year to Year to  % 
 31 July 31 July  Change 
 2011 2010 % excluding  
 £m £m Change GPW
Revenue 11.4 13.8 (17)% (9)%
Operating Profit 0.3 0.4 (33)% 
Operating Profit  
Margin (%) 2% 3%  
