 Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     5
In the year ended 31 July 2011, YouGov has recorded  
a high level of growth and significantly increased profits. 
These results were very much in line with the budget set out 
at the beginning of the year. They reflect the management’s 
success in achieving our Group targets and delivering better 
than expected results from the US acquisitions made during 
the year.
Results
This year’s revenue of £56.1m represents an increase  
of 27% over the prior year. Organic growth (excluding the 
effect of acquisitions and disposals) of 9% was well ahead 
of the research market, particularly in the UK and US. 
Adjusted operating profits increased by £1.5m (40%) to 
£5.3m. Cash generated from operations was £5.6m. Our 
cash balance at the end of the year was £9.4m compared 
to £15.6m at 31 July 2010. This was after expenditure in the 
year of £8.1m on acquisitions and investments.
The Board does not propose the payment of a dividend  
at this time but this policy is kept under review.
Strategy
While this year’s performance has benefited from US 
acquisitions, it has also reaffirmed the strength of our core 
business model of online market research. This core model 
delivers accurate information rapidly using our highly 
responsive online panel supported by our own technology 
and strong analytics capability. This includes proprietary 
research data and reports as well as custom research 
conducted by our specialist teams using the common 
operating platform which is tailored to the needs of 
individual clients and sectors.
As identified previously, we are achieving success with  
our core products and services even in markets such as 
Germany where there is greater resistance to change. With 
the evidence of client demand for our rich panel-derived 
data and a stronger delivery platform we are planning to 
expand our core model further into new territories, new 
markets, and also to launch more new products. Some of 
these, such as business intelligence and products tailored 
for the investment community, have already been 
successfully trialled this year. 
Effective execution is clearly vital to the delivery of our 
strategy, especially when we expand geographically. The 
Board was pleased with progress in America which is now 
our largest operation. Our first acquisition, Polimetrix, was 
made there in 2006 and has proved to be an excellent basis 
for expansion. In August 2010, we purchased Harrison Group 
in Connecticut and in April 2011, Definitive Insights in 
Oregon. We believe YouGov is now demonstrating its ability 
to make good acquisitions and integrate them successfully. 
Board and Management
To continue to deliver our plans for future expansion and 
roll-out of our main products across all our businesses, we 
have announced a number of management changes since 
the year end. 
In August 2011, Doug Rivers joined the board as Chief 
Innovations Officer to lead the development of YouGov’s 
key data products and their exploitation across the Group. 
Doug was the founder of Polimetrix, which is the core of 
YouGov’s American business, and has been CEO YouGov 
America since 2007. Doss Struse, currently Managing Partner 
of Definitive Insights, has been appointed as President of 
YouGov America, responsible for its operational management 
including the continued integration of the recently acquired 
businesses. Doss brings extensive experience in managing 
international research businesses which will help to maintain 
the rapid growth of our US business. 
In parallel with these changes, we have promoted Tim Britton, 
CEO YouGov UK, to the new role of Chief Operating Officer, 
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). He will be 
responsible for directing YouGov’s operations and 
Chairman’s Statement for the year ended 31 July 2011
Roger Parry
Chairman Section 1  Overview YouGov Annual Report and Accounts 2011     6
implementing the business and management strategy 
across the region. Phil Rance, formerly Managing Director, 
EMEA at Research Now, has succeeded Tim in the role of 
Managing Director, YouGov UK. 
In Germany, we have appointed Andreas Sperling as the 
new CEO, completing the management reorganisation 
undertaken earlier in the year. Andreas has held senior 
management roles in the research sector in Europe and 
Asia, notably as CEO, Africa, Asia Pacific and Managing 
Director, Germany of Millward Brown. We look forward to 
Andreas bringing his skills and experience to bear in driving 
the changes that are still needed to bring the performance 
of our German business into line with the rest of the Group. 
Growth
Our focus in the coming year is on growing the core business 
as well as extending the model to new markets and new 
customers through organic start-ups and joint ventures.  
We remain open to adding “tuck-in” acquisitions if the right 
opportunities arise. We have the internal resources to fund 
these. The Board has approved selective investments  
in new products, such as SixthSense, which are intended  
to create new long-term sources of profitable revenue.
Prospects
We face economic volatility and uncertainty across all the 
markets in which we operate and our clients are likely to be 
conservative in their spending plans. While we will maintain 
good control over operating costs to reflect this, we are in  
a rapidly changing industry and will keep investing in new 
products and services with good potential so as to deliver 
long-term profit growth. Trading in the first couple of 
months has been satisfactory and in line with the Board’s 
expectations.
Roger Parry 
Chairman 
10 October 2011
Chairman’s Statement for the year ended 31 July 2011 continued
“We will keep investing in new products and 
services with good potential so as to deliver 
long-term profit growth.”
