 4 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003
Performance 
BAE Systems has market leading businesses
operating in the fields of systems and
software, support services and, through
Airbus, large commercial jets. Together these
activities represent some 80% of the group’s
sales. Much of the recent focus of attention
has been on the under-performance of our
major UK Ministry of Defence (MoD)
programmes. Good progress has been made
towards the removal of excessive risk and the
restoration of profitable growth in this latter
portfolio that represents the remaining 20%
of the group. 
The North America business group performed
well, with double digit organic growth and
strong cash flows. This business continued to
design, develop and supply world class
systems and expertise to key US
programmes.   
Customer Solutions & Support made further
progress in growing business in the UK with
an innovative cost and supply chain
management programme with the UK MoD’s
Defence Logistics Organisation. In Saudi
Arabia the strong relationship of many years
continues with the Al Yamamah defence
support programme. 
“Our overall priorities are to deliver enhanced
performance and improve returns,
particularly from our major UK defence
programmes in the medium-term, and to
continue to grow our business in the US.”
Chief executive’s review
Through our Commercial Aerospace business
we are an active partner in all aspects of
Airbus. Airbus performed strongly in a difficult
market that endured the effects of the SARS
virus, the Iraq conflict and the underlying
airline industry cycle. Looking forward, Airbus
is very well positioned for strong growth over
the medium-term.
Much of our business in continental Europe is
conducted in partnership with other
aerospace and defence companies. Our
recent focus has been on enhancing the
performance of these partnerships.
We have taken a three-pronged approach to
improving performance. Firstly, we work hard
with partners to maximise value and the
progress of our MBDA guided weapons joint
venture is successfully demonstrating the
benefit of this approach. Secondly, where
appropriate, we seek to achieve greater
clarity of overall management control, as we
have with the restructuring of STN Atlas,
where we have taken 100% ownership of
Atlas Elektronik, and the steps we are taking
on Eurosystems with Finmeccanica. Thirdly,
where activities are no longer core to our
strategy and show inadequate returns we will
exit, as we did with Astrium. 
Progress has been made to stabilise the
performance of the UK MoD programmes. 
In Air Systems there has been significant
progress on Nimrod and Hawk. Typhoon is
now in production with deliveries to our
customers underway. In order to determine
the way forward and reduce uncertainty, a key
objective remains to conclude the
negotiations with regard to the next phase of
the Typhoon weapon system development and
the second tranche of production aircraft.
In Naval Systems we successfully achieved all
of our 2003 key objectives and milestones for
the Astute submarine, Type 45 destroyer,
Landing Platform Dock, Landing Ship Dock
(Auxiliary) and Sting Ray torpedo programmes. 
Managing risk
If we are to drive growth and value
successfully it is essential that we establish
an appropriate balance of risk and reward in
contracts, notably in our major UK
programmes. In February 2003, as previously
announced, agreements to share risk and
reward with the UK customer were
established. During 2004, it is expected that
the UK’s new Carrier programme will proceed
from the final stage of assessment into the
systems design phase. The terms of this
  BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 5
contract will provide an opportunity to
demonstrate the substantial progress that
has been made jointly with the MoD in
rebalancing risk and reward arrangements for
future major contracts.
Programme management
Our focus on ensuring that the best people
are using the best processes and are
subjected to the most rigorous internal and
external reviews has improved the stability
and predictability of our programmes. In close
collaboration with the UK MoD we now
monitor our performance on strategic
milestones across a number of our major
programmes. Performance is also regularly
assessed by the company’s Executive
Committee, the group responsible for the
day-to-day running of the company.
However, we recognise that there is more still
to be done. Our aim is two-fold: to
out-perform the industry and to ensure that
our approach to programme management, as
set out in our Operational Framework,
becomes truly embedded in the way we do
business, throughout the company. 
Our people
At the heart of BAE Systems, and its joint
ventures, lies a highly qualified and dedicated
workforce and I would like to thank them for
their continued support and commitment.
Priorities
Our overall priorities are to deliver enhanced
performance and improve returns, particularly
from our major UK defence programmes in
the medium-term, and to continue to grow our
business in the US. We will do this by
exploiting fully the opportunities that come
from our strong market positions and
continuing to improve our programme
management capabilities. We are determined
to succeed, and remain committed to
achieving an acceptable and sustainable
return for shareholders.
Mike Turner
Chief executive
25 February 2004 6 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003
Our group strategy is ‘To create
sustainable shareholder value by being the
premier transatlantic aerospace and
defence contractor’. This strategy reflects
our commitment to delivering profitable
growth through improved performance, and
to building a consistent track record. We
recognise that to achieve this means
extending our mutually beneficial
relationships with our customers. 
The transatlantic focus of our strategy
reflects our presence in the UK, continental
Europe and in the United States. The
United States is the world’s largest
aerospace and defence market, and it is in
this market that we are most actively
seeking to grow our business. In the UK
and Europe we already have a leading
position from which to deliver profitable
growth. 
As our market position is spread
geographically, it is also spread between
sectors. Defence remains our core market
with some 60% of the company’s total
sales now from systems and software and
support services and some 20% from
defence platform systems programmes.
The balance of our portfolio comes from
commercial aircraft, primarily through our
involvement in Airbus. 
Delivery of our strategy will be achieved via
four group strategic objectives. The first of
these, to ‘Optimise the value of our
current order book’, means building on our
strong market positions and turning orders
into profit. In doing this we will deliver
increased value to our shareholders. 
Our second objective recognises the
location of our most important markets. We
seek to ‘Create a geographic profile based
on a transatlantic and tactical global
presence’. Transatlantic means more than
our presence either side of the Atlantic. We
actively seek to take part in industrial
partnerships and collaborative
programmes, and play a major role in joint
US/UK programmes. 
In maintaining a tactical global presence,
we will continue to export to, and work in,
selected markets around the world where
we can deliver appropriate shareholder
returns.
To create and maintain a position from
where we can deliver value to our
shareholders we will ‘Proactively manage
investment and divestment in businesses’
based upon value creation criteria. Where
markets have attractive terms of trade, we
will look to grow our position and deliver
the best possible returns. Where
businesses operate in markets considered
non-strategic, they must justify their role by
value creation and contribution to the
group’s performance.
The last of our four group strategic
objectives reflects the behaviours that we
expect from our people. We have taken
actions to ‘Embed a high performance
culture’ through our Performance Centred
Leadership framework. Our challenge is to
ensure that these principles are embedded
throughout BAE Systems, and that all of
our people and our partners understand
what is expected of them.
These four strategic objectives are being
pursued through seven strands of business
portfolio actions supported by the
integrated business plans of our
operations.
Group Strategic Objectives
Group Strategy
Integrated Business Plans
To create sustainable shareholder value by being the
premier transatlantic aerospace and defence contractor
- Optimise the value of our current order book
- Create a geographic profile based on a transatlantic and tactical global presence
- Proactively manage investment and divestment in businesses
- Embed a high performance culture
Achieve an optimised
European position
through a rationalised
portfolio of joint
ventures
Grow and 
maximise the
value of Airbus
Manage 
non-strategic 
businesses
for optimal value
Become the UK’s
system of systems
architect
Create a 
sustainable,
profitable business
as the UK programme
prime contractor
in air, land and sea
Grow our support,
solutions and
services business
in the UK and
international
markets
Grow the business
in the United States
Group strategy
Business Portfolio Actions
