 06 YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Report for the year ended 31 July 2009
YouGov has made good progress in
developing its business despite the
tough market conditions. We are now
a leading global research provider as
recognised by our being ranked for
the ﬁrst time in the industry’s listing:
Honomichl Global Top 25.
In pursuing our strategy we have
focused on four key themes in the
development of our global capabilities.
These are:
 establishing an integrated
global technology platform;
 leveraging our geographic
spread with clients and our
range of skills and experience;
 improving ﬁnancial controls
and strengthening Group
management; and
 innovating in real-time research.
Over the past two years, we have
invested approximately £1.8m in
developing and rolling out our global
technology platform. Its unique survey
and panel management applications
were developed originally by our
US business and will be in use in
all our hubs by the middle of 2010.
We believe that this will give YouGov
a “best of breed” integrated online
research platform and will support
seamless global research operations
enabling, for example, a researcher
in Cologne or London to directly
organise and run a survey across
all of YouGov’s panels without local
manual interventions.
Taking the best elements from each
of our hubs has allowed us to enhance
our ability to innovate and to provide
accurate and fast data to clients
around the world. Consistent with this,
BrandIndex, our proprietary tracker
of brand performance, is now available
in the US, Germany, the Middle East
and Scandinavia as well as the UK. We
recently launched an enhanced version
which combines the technological and
survey expertise of our US hub with the
customer experience and feedback
gained in the UK. Having a US presence
has also enabled us to grow BrandIndex
sales signiﬁcantly with a number of
US based international brand owners
and advertising agencies becoming
subscribers this year . We plan further
enhancement and internationalisation
of this product in response to demand
from global companies.
We have extended our highly successful
Omnibus service beyond the UK with
an international version which has
already proved popular with clients.
We are also planning to follow the
successful UK model by launching
local Omnibus services in several of
our hubs.
Our new branding brings together all
of our hubs under the YouGov banner
and describes our customer proposition
as being to tell our clients “what the
world thinks”. Our wider geographical
reach has also allowed us to tender
for and win larger , international
mandates that would not previously
have been available to the Group.
Recent such projects include surveys
for a global digital media business,
a South East Asian Government and
the European Commission.
YouGov’s successful UK model is
based on using our polling skills to
build our brand and technical
credibility , develop innovative research
products and our sector expertise so
as to address the strategic research
needs of large corporate and public
sector organisations. Our acquisitions
have extended our geographical
coverage and in the case of Germany,
added existing sector capability,
notably in ﬁnancial services. We have
begun to apply our model to the US
market where we enhanced our
reputation for accurate political polling
in the 2008 Presidential Elections and
continue to run a weekly poll on behalf
of The Economist. We also took a ﬁrst
step to extend our commercial custom
research capability in the US through
the acquisition of Clear Horizons.
The business is performing well and
has been renamed YouGov Marketing
Insights, reﬂecting its focus on
providing clients with information
which helps them to plan and deliver
their marketing strategy .
These developments over the past
two years have together succeeded
in expanding the scale and complexity
of research projects that the YouGov
Group can bid for and win.
We also focused this year on improving
our ﬁnancial controls and the quality
of our reporting and forecasting as
well as on harmonising the Group’s
key business processes. Although
this could not prevent external factors,
such as the deterioration of market
conditions, from affecting our business,
these improved systems and controls
made us better able to respond to
challenges when they arose and to
plan and implement corrective actions.
To help us to improve operating
performance across the Group and
deliver the beneﬁts of scale we
appointed Lars Lund-Nielsen, the former
CEO of our Scandinavian business,
to the new role of Group Operations
Director . We have also appointed Ted
Marzilli, head of our US BrandIndex
team, to the new position of Global
BrandIndex Director so as to drive the
product’s sales to global clients and
co-ordinate regional sales through
our hubs around the world.
As we continue to integrate the
previously acquired businesses,
we have further strengthened our
management team through internal
promotions. Andreas Schubert has
been appointed as CEO of our German
business and Ms Iman Annab has
become CEO of our Middle East
business. The head of our UK data
products business, Sundip Chahal, has
moved to the Middle East as its Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer to help accelerate
the development of our online products
business there. These moves were in
line with the succession plans made
at the time that both businesses were
acquired. We are nurturing the talent
pool within the Group and aim to
provide our people with exciting career
development opportunities within the
YouGov family . A long-term incentive
plan has been put in place to ensure
that the interests of all senior staff are
focused on delivering shareholder value. YouGov 07
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Panel Development
The YouGov panel is at the heart of all of
our businesses and we have continued
to invest in and develop it to ensure
that we maintain a representative, high
quality international panel. We have
drawn on nearly ten years of panel
engagement in the UK as well as the
skills and experiences of our acquired
hubs to improve and internationalise
our research products and services.
The development of multiple ways that
people can exchange opinions and join
communities online makes engagement
with proprietary panels even more
critical to delivering high quality
market research. This will become an
increasing differentiator in the future
and thus we continue to enhance our
panels to increase our research
capabilities, both in new geographies
and specialist panels.
As at 31 July 2009, the Group’s online
panels comprised a total of 2,216,000
panellists (deﬁned as the number of
panel registrations), an increase of 24%
over the total of 1,780,000 as at 31 July
2008. The panel sizes by region were:
Panel size Panel size
at 31 July at 31 July
Region 2009 2008
UK 266,000 222,000
Middle East &
North Africa 197,000 142,000
Germany &
Central Europe 122,000 52,000
Scandinavia &
Northern Europe 143,000 126,000
US 1,488,000 1,238,000
Our US panel was increased signiﬁcantly
ahead of the 2008 Presidential Elections
allowing us to be able to provide a
representative sample for polling in each
of the 50 States. We continue to expand
our panel in the Middle East to establish
critical mass in each of the territories
allowing us to support our data products
across the region. The German panel
has been created from nothing in little
over 18 months. It is already more than
capable of supporting BrandIndex and
Omnibus and is being further
developed to support the transition
online of more of our business.
Current Trading and Prospects
The Board expects that the current
challenging economic conditions will
continue as clients keep a tight hold
of expenditure. However , the Group
is now operating with a lower cost base
and a greater level of focus. We are
also conﬁdent that the innovations
we are bringing to market will enhance
our prospects.
Over the past year , we have built the
foundation on which we will now launch
the next stage of online research.
Dynamic sampling will greatly increase
the efﬁciency of our data collection
allowing us to extend the breadth and
detail of what we measure. Advanced
data mining will yield greater practical
value from that, combining this real-
time ﬂow of data with in-depth
knowledge of our two million strong
panel. This will allow us to provide
clients with new analytical tools with
which to understand their markets and
inform their strategies, even as their
campaigns are in progress.
This is YouGov 2.0, marking a signiﬁcant
advance in action-focused research
with a suite of tools to manage brands
in an ever faster moving world. We are
as excited about this next phase as we
were when we ﬁrst set out to challenge
the old methodologies.
So we believe that YouGov’s brand,
ability to innovate and proven online
research skills will enable us to grow
our customer base and continue to
win market share. In the short term,
we will also ensure that we exploit the
individual strengths and market position
of each of our hubs.
With a cash generative business
model, cash on the balance sheet and
an excellent and growing professional
reputation, YouGov is well positioned
to deliver growth and generate
attractive future returns.
Nadhim Zahawi
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
12 October 2009
“We continue to
innovate and invest to
ensure that we are best
placed to capitalise
on industry trends.”
