 16
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operating review
Chief Executive’s review
for the year ended 31 July 2013
Introduction
In rolling out our strategy , Y ouGov has delivered a good operational 
and financial performance for the year . Our investment in data 
products and services is delivering significant growth while our 
custom research business is also still growing ahead of the market. 
Y ouGov remains the pioneer of real-time research based on 
continuous interaction with our engaged panel. This data enables 
us to offer clients cost-effective and highly accurate insights 
through packaged products like our proprietary BrandIndex and 
our market-leading Omnibus service.
Our investment in data products 
and services is delivering 
significant growth while our 
custom research business is 
also still growing ahead of the 
market.”
 
Custom Research 
up 5%
Data Products & Services 
up 17%
Changes in revenue
£m
FY13 FY12
22%
24%
70.0
60.0
50.0
40.0
30.0
20.0
10.0
0.0
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   16 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
17
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Delivering the growth strategy 
Our clearly stated aim is to make our core offering of opinion data, 
derived from our highly responsive panel of respondents, into a 
systematic research and marketing platform delivering data and 
related analyses and reports that can be used to plan, manage 
and refine all types of campaigns whether they have commercial, 
political, social or other objectives. 
In delivering this, we have defined five key strategic objectives. 
We describe these below together with our progress in achieving 
them in the year under review . 
Grow our suite of data products and services
We made further progress in increasing the proportion of Group 
revenue derived from data products and services to bring this 
closer to parity with custom research over the medium term. Overall 
revenue from data products and services grew by 17% to £15m 
from £13m in the year ended 31 July 2013.  
BrandIndex, our flagship brand intelligence service, continued 
to gain clients globally and achieved 22% revenue growth to £5m. 
It now serves over 150 subscribers across all our geographic 
units. The development of BrandIndex as a currency for brand 
measurement has been facilitated by our close collaborations with 
leading global media agencies including OMD and Universal 
McCann who continue to support its global expansion. New client 
wins in the year included Barclaycard, Energizer , Heathrow and 
T ravelodge. During the year , we launched an enhanced version 
(6.0) of BrandIndex which includes weekend data collection as 
well as weekday coverage and an extended range of valuable 
information from consumers, including media awareness and 
expected and reported purchase behaviour . We also launched an 
extension of the BrandIndex service – CategoryView . This provides 
in-depth data on specific market sectors (e.g. telecoms or dining) 
focusing on product ownership, spending patterns and brand 
switching behaviour . It provides additional insight for brand and 
business decision-makers and also for financial investors, such as 
fund managers and analysts. CategoryView has been introduced 
for selected sectors in the US, UK and China and is being 
marketed initially to the investment community , especially in the US. 
Our Omnibus service, which celebrated its tenth birthday in 2013, 
achieved global revenue growth of 20% to nearly £8m. This reflects 
the geographical expansion of the Omnibus service as well as 
continued good growth (18%) in the UK where it is the clear 
market-leader . We launched a daily Omnibus in the USA in January 
2013, overseen by our Group Omnibus Director who is now based 
in New Y ork, which is performing as planned. In the US, as well as 
in other newer Omnibus territories such as France and Middle East, 
we have successfully begun to build media and PR agency 
relationships in support of Omnibus, following the successful UK 
model. New European clients in the year included Money Advice 
Service and Henkel, while new US clients included Diffusion PR 
and KIND. The global roll-out of Omnibus is also enabling us to 
service demand for multi-country Omnibus surveys using the 
Group’s own panels which we expect will contribute to future 
growth. New segmental services covering specific groups such as 
Children and Parents, Shoppers and B2B have also been launched 
which will extend the client base that can be served using the 
common Omnibus platform. 
We have continued to develop SoMA, our measurement tool for 
social media audiences which uniquely includes Facebook 
messages as well as Twitter , so that clients can apply their own 
segmentations to data derived from social media. This provides 
the ability to track social media communications across target 
audiences as defined by a given business or organisation. SoMA 
gives valuable insights into the “customer journey” and is being 
incorporated by clients into their wider research data suite.
Our five  
key strategic 
objectives
Boost 
our public 
profile
Expand our 
geographic 
footprint
Grow our 
syndicated 
products  
suite
Integrate 
custom 
research and 
syndicated 
data
Enhance 
our user 
experience
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   17 01/11/2013   13:17 18
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Expand our geographic footprint
Y ouGov already has twenty offices worldwide covering the USA, 
UK, France, Germany , Nordics and the Middle East and our online 
panels operate in 33 countries with some 3 million panellists 
registered on them. In meeting our clients’ needs for Y ouGov’s data 
we have been expanding our operations across the major global 
markets around a repeatable version of our core offering. We aim 
to do this mainly by organic investment but will consider selective 
acquisitions if these can accelerate our development. Our French 
office, which opened two years ago, is successfully meeting its 
goals. Early in 2013, we set up our first panel of Chinese 
consumers which has enabled us to launch a BrandIndex version 
for China to which clients are already subscribing. 
Integrate custom research and syndicated data 
Y ouGov’s panel centric approach enables us to provide clients with 
the information they require on opinions and behaviours using the 
data that our panellists continuously provide to us, supplemented 
as necessary with tailored surveys or questions added to our 
regular surveys. We have been significantly expanding and 
organising our Profile Data Library (PDL) so that this “connected 
data” enables our clients to understand people’s attitudes and 
consumption decisions. This data already feeds into our syndicated 
products, for example economic confidence data from our 
Household Economic Activity T racker (HEAT) can be overlaid with 
customer segmentations and BrandIndex data can be filtered by 
media consumption types. More and more, we are integrating this 
data with our custom research to make the whole offering stronger 
and have been applying this approach to provide innovative 
solutions to our clients. For example, Y ouGov’s precise media 
consumption data can be used to measure the impact of 
advertising that respondents have seen but do not recall. Our 
innovative solution was demonstrated at the Guardian’s Changing 
Media Summit, in a case study on the advertising campaign for 
“Lynx” a well-known personal care product. A number of clients, 
including RSPB and SHS-Drinks, are already using these new 
methods to measure the impact of their advertising and 
sponsorship campaigns. Delivery of complex data sets tailored 
for our clients also requires sophisticated tools for data delivery , 
analysis and visualisation which our investment in these 
technologies helps us to fulfil. This allows us to capitalise on the 
opportunity that we have identified to integrate syndicated data 
into custom research projects.    
Enhance user experience 
Integrated data, and user experience in producing that data, are 
two parts of the same process. That is why one of Y ouGov’s key 
differentiators is that we treat panel management as part of our 
panel-centric methodology . This centres on using online panels 
with engaged long-term respondents to build up an ever-growing 
web of data. For example, by adding the data from today’s 
interview to that from last month’s interview and so on, we can build 
a full picture of the complexity of consumers’ interactions and can 
track when and how these change. This is a marked shift from the 
old world in which people were stopped in the street or contacted 
by telephone for a one-off survey which provided a single 
snapshot or slice of data and the interviewee then yielded no 
further value. Our panellists are happy to share their lives with us 
with many giving Y ouGov access to their Facebook pages and 
Twitter identities and allowing us to track their online activities.
It follows from the centrality of this method that Y ouGov’s success 
depends on us keeping panel members engaged and responsive. 
During this financial year , we strengthened the management of our 
panels by appointing a Group Director of User Experience who will 
ensure consistent, active management of the relationship with our 
panellists across the Group. This also improves the returns from our 
investment in panel recruitment. We have also continued to develop 
innovative ways for our panellists to extend their interactions with 
Y ouGov beyond responding to surveys. These include “Y ou Made 
the News!" alerts and Opigram. 
“Y ou Made the News!” alerts inform respondents to a survey about 
articles published covering the results of that survey . This feature 
provides panellists with feedback on how the data that they provide 
is being used and satisfies their interest in the overall results 
of surveys that they take. This currently only covers publication 
of results on Y ouGov’s UK and US websites but will be extended 
to other units and to external media coverage.
Opigram, developed in partnership with CoEditor Limited, is a new 
technology for recording and measuring opinions that our panellists 
choose to offer . It is becoming an integral part of Y ouGov’s 
panel-facing websites and allows Y ouGov panellists proactively to 
share their opinion on any subject, whenever they like and to build 
Operating review
Chief Executive’s review continued
for the year ended 31 July 2013
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   18 01/11/2013   13:17 Overview Additional information Operating review Governance Financial statements
19
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
up their own profile through a combination of ratings, opinions, 
and agreeing or disagreeing with the opinions of other panellists. 
It provides people with a way to record their opinions and 
experiences that is organised to be useful to them, and to other 
people. The platform also offers a social network through which 
panellists can exchange opinions. As well as entertaining our 
panellists, Opigram is building a valuable database of how 
opinions on one area or issue correlate with attitudes on others (for 
example, consumer preferences with media usage and changing 
attitudes) and this extends the range of usable data that Y ouGov 
can offer its clients (as always, on an anonymised basis). Opigram 
is the new searchable data-base of the “long tail” of changing 
respondent data and is therefore itself a data product. It is helping 
transform Y ouGov from a company that uses the Internet to an 
actual Internet company .
After a successful soft-launch in the UK, Opigram was rolled-out in 
the USA in July 2012, and the level of engagement across both the 
UK and US websites has demonstrably increased. Since January 
2013, the number of unique visitors has increased by 76% to our 
UK site and by 32% to our US site. Reflecting the importance of 
this technology , Y ouGov has increased its effective holding in 
CoEditor , the company which is developing Opigram, to 57%. 
Boost our public profile
Y ouGov’s reputation for providing accurate and authoritative 
information is enhanced by the strength of our public profile and 
this in turn means that our panellists know that their opinions count. 
In the UK, Y ouGov is quoted twice as often as any of our 
competitors and we are also increasingly quoted in traditional and 
digital media around the world. During the 2012 US Presidential 
Election our regular polling and collaborations with CBS and 
Huffington Post generated significant publicity for Y ouGov . 
We believe that the demonstrable superior accuracy of the online 
methods in this election has clearly tilted the debate over US 
political polling in favour of online. Another innovation during the 
US Presidential Debates was our live polling in partnership with 
Microsoft using the Xbox platform to measure instantly the 
reactions of young adult voters. Y ouGov’s media engagement 
model is being applied in other units too. In France, for example, 
collaboration with Huffington Post has helped our new operation 
to gain rapid media exposure and in Germany , daily polling is 
conducted for a number of media outlets including two national 
newspapers: Die Zeit and Bild. 
We are also ensuring that our brand’s public profile is fully 
leveraged among market research buyers in all geographies. 
We are therefore planning to appoint a global Chief Marketing 
Officer to lead the Group’s marketing activities and increase the 
awareness and understanding of our brand proposition among 
all constituencies. This role will be based in New Y ork with an initial 
focus on the US market. 
Looking ahead
The nature of the market research industry is changing. The old 
model of seeking the views of a structured sample and then 
using statistical techniques to extrapolate a valid answer for the 
population is proving expensive and slow . We are seeing clear 
signs that clients in all types of organisation are increasingly 
demanding accurate, real-time information including analysis of 
social media commentary of the kind that Y ouGov has set itself 
up to provide through the immediate responses of registered and 
documented panellists. This allows far more accurate and rapid 
insights to be obtained. Even the global research groups which   
have large, historic investments in traditional methods are publicly 
acknowledging this trend.  
As Y ouGov is an acknowledged world leader in real-time research, 
we believe we are well placed to benefit from these changes 
that are driven by the growing impact of digital technologies. 
By continuing with our innovation and investment we will be able to 
build on our already strong position and deliver the growth strategy 
to which we have previously committed.
Our focus in the coming year will remain on maintaining the growth 
from our expanding suite of data products and services and on 
focusing resources in all our existing operations so as to exploit 
further the advantages of our core operating model. We will also 
continue to develop opportunities for geographical expansion. 
The Board is confident that Y ouGov will deliver further growth in 
revenue and profits in the current year . 
By continuing with our 
innovation and investment 
we will be able to build on our 
already strong position and 
deliver the growth strategy 
to which we have previously 
committed.”
016612_YouGov_AR13_p16_25_Operating review (Working Copy).indd   19 01/11/2013   13:17
