 The year ended 31 July 2014 was another successful one for 
YouGov. We once again delivered organic revenue growth well 
ahead of the market research sector. We also took further strides 
towards the goal of our revenue from data products and services 
reaching parity with that from custom research services. 
We extended our geographic reach through the acquisition 
of Decision Fuel (since renamed YouGov Asia Pacific), which 
provides the Group with an operational base in China and South-
East Asia. As the Board expected, the successful development 
of our business in line with our stated strategy fed through to 
strong growth in profits and earnings per share in the year (on 
an adjusted basis). We also generated a net cash inflow after 
funding acquisition-related payments and investments in panel, 
technology and other assets to support future business growth. 
This performance together with our continued healthy financial 
position enables the Board to recommend an increase of 33% 
in the dividend payable to shareholders.
YouGov revolutionised market research over a decade ago 
through our use of online data collection methods. We now 
aim to pioneer the development of a real-time and interactive 
dialogue with our panellists which, when combined with 
innovative data analytics, produces extremely rapid, accurate 
and valuable research insights for our clients. YouGov is 
increasingly becoming a true ‘Internet company’ in which 
panellists enjoy interacting with us online which enables us to 
produce data products that are valuable to businesses and 
other public and private organisations as well as to panellists 
themselves. We continue to develop our organisational 
structures and systems to enhance our operation as a company 
with outstanding digital skills, a famous worldwide brand and a 
unified offer of globally consistent and connected data products. 
Based on this strategy, the Board has set ambitious goals for 
the Group with the aim of delivering substantial and consistent 
earnings growth. To support this, we are further developing 
the way that our business and its performance are managed 
and reported. 
As previously announced, Sundip Chahal, the CEO of YouGov’s 
Middle East and North Africa unit, was appointed in August 
2014 to the newly created senior role of Chief Operating Officer, 
reporting to Stephan Shakespeare. He will be responsible for the 
continued scaling of the business globally, ensuring consistency 
of business processes and quality of client service delivery 
across the Group, as well as for overseeing the performance 
of the Group’s geographic units. 
Turnover £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
67.4
62.6
58.1
56.1
44.2
Adjusted operating profit
1
 £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
7.4
6.0
5.6
5.3
3.8
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
for the year ended 31 July 2014
6
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consistent with our strategy, we are moving from our current 
approach of reporting performance mainly by geographic 
unit (which reflects past acquisitions), to a focus on consistent 
global products and services. To reflect this new focus, 
product and service segmental reporting has been introduced 
in the accompanying financial statements for 2013/14 as a 
supplementary analysis to the current geographical reporting. 
We intend to make it the primary analysis from 2014/15 onwards. 
In the coming year, we will be concentrating our resources and 
headcount growth on sales, client service and analytics skills 
with the objective of driving revenues from data products and 
services and from custom research that integrates with the data 
generated from our panel. 
The Board considers it essential for management and 
shareholder interests to be aligned around the creation of long-
term value for shareholders. The Remuneration Committee has 
therefore approved a new Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for the 
Group’s Directors and senior managers, effective from 1 August 
2014, which is designed to reward the participants for the 
achievement of highly demanding EPS growth targets over the 
five year period ending 31 July 2019. In addition to EPS growth, 
the vesting of LTIP benefits will require the Group to improve 
operating margins over the period and individual participants 
to meet specific personal goals. The Board believes that this 
balance of metrics will encourage the creation of long-term value 
and not just simply drive EPS growth, which is only one measure 
of success. The new stretch targets are significantly higher 
than those in place under the current LTIP . The terms of the new 
LTIP have been developed with advice received from Deloitte’s 
remuneration consulting practice, and after consultation with 
Numis and several major shareholders.
The Board expects the Group to make further investments 
in new technologies to accelerate the development of new 
data products and services, in particular of YouGov Profiles. 
Our focus will remain on achieving this organically although we 
will consider tactical acquisitions that support the delivery of our 
plans if the right opportunities arise. 
We have started the current year well in terms of sales to new 
and existing clients. There is a clear understanding amongst 
the senior team of the very ambitious targets being set by the 
Board and detailed plans have been developed to support their 
achievement. The Board believes that we are well positioned to 
continue growing our share of the market research industry in 
a way that creates a more profitable and robust business.
I
Roger Parry
Chairman
13 October 2014
“ This was another 
successful year for Y ouGov . 
We once again delivered 
organic revenue growth 
well ahead of the market 
research sector . We also 
took further strides towards 
the goal of our revenue 
from data products and 
services reaching parity 
with that from custom 
research services.”
Operating cash generation £m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
9.0
6.9
4.9
5.6
4.9
Adjusted earning per share
1
 pence
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
6.1
5.6
4.9
4.7
2.5
1.  Adjusted operating profit is defined as group operating profit before amortisation of intangibles, impairment charge and exceptional items. In the year to 31 July 2014, amortisation 
of intangibles was £4.0m (2013: £3.3m) and exceptional costs were £2.4m (2013: £1.2m). Adjusted profit before tax and earnings per share are calculated based on the adjusted 
operating profit.
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
7
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
