 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
for the year ended 31 July 2014
“ We’re delivering what we set 
out to at the beginning of the 
year . Data products and 
services are growing well, 
with the profit contribution 
from these higher margin 
businesses matching custom 
research for the first time.  
Our geographies are 
performing to plan and we 
have continued to expand  
our footprint, allowing us to 
continue to leverage our 
products internationally . ”
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
9
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Performance in the year 
YouGov’s revenue for the year ended 31 July 2014 increased 
by 8% to £67 .4m (10% in constant currency terms). This is 
significantly above the estimated global market growth of 
between 2% and 3%. In line with our plans, revenue from data 
products and services increased proportionately faster, by 
30% to £20m. This now represents 29% of the total Group 
revenue, compared to 24% in the previous year. Within this, 
BrandIndex grew by 53% and Omnibus by 20%. These high 
growth rates reflect the increased penetration of these products 
in their existing markets as well as their continued geographical 
expansion. Custom research revenue grew by 1% with some 
variation between regions. 
I am also pleased to report a 24% increase in the Group’s 
adjusted operating profit to £7 .4m, compared to £6.0m in 
2012/13 and an increase in the adjusted operating profit margin 
from 10% to 11%. This growth is attributable to the increase in 
revenues together with a 1% point improvement in gross margins 
(to 77%), which was driven by the higher contribution from data 
products and services. The operating cost ratio remained at 
66% of revenue. We maintained a high cash conversion rate with 
cash generated from operations increasing by 29% to £8.9m, 
from £6.9m in the prior year. This represents a conversion rate of 
120% of adjusted operating profit (2013: 116%). The strong cash 
generation was also reflected in a net cash inflow of £1.3m after 
investing £1.0m (2013: £2.0m) in acquisition-related payments 
and £5.8m in the purchase of tangible and intangible fixed 
assets, including £4.7m for the development of our panel and 
technology platforms. 
Our adjusted profit before tax rose by 12% and our adjusted 
earnings per share increased by 11%. These reflected the 
unrealised losses within finance costs arising from the effect of 
£ sterling’s appreciation on cash balances converted from other 
currencies at the year-end. 
We are increasingly managing our business and driving growth 
through our global product and service lines: data products, 
data services and custom research. As we scale our business, 
we aim to harmonise further across all geographies our research 
offerings and approach to the market as well as the operational 
and business processes that enable efficient and effective 
delivery of our research data and services to clients. We also 
expect further operational leverage from the continued growth of 
data products and services. In line with this, we will increasingly 
report our performance in terms of our global service lines.
Changes in revenue £m
FY13 FY14
Custom Research up 1%
Data Products & Services
up 30%
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
24%
29% “ The launch of Y ouGov 
Profiles, a new product that 
allows subscribers to 
interrogate the rich data in the 
Y ouGov engine, marks our 
intent to put our unique 
connected data at the heart 
of the marketing workflow. ”
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
for the year ended 31 July 2014
10
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The UK version of YouGov Profiles is based on a database of 
some 120,000 separate data points on consumers, collected 
initially from approximately 190,000 YouGov panellists. 
YouGov Profiles connects data on profiles, brand, sector, media, 
digital and social data all in one place. For example, it provides 
brand usage and perception data for some 1,000 brands (plus 
usage for thousands more), TV viewing for 5,000 programmes, 
website usage for the most active commercial websites and 
much more. YouGov Profiles will be offered to the market as a 
subscription service (like BrandIndex) with clients accessing the 
data through a dedicated portal. YouGov Profiles complements 
BrandIndex since it allows users to define and understand their 
potential target customers while BrandIndex allows them to 
measure the effect of campaigns and other events on how their 
own and other brands are perceived. It will improve the ability 
of marketers to understand the people and audiences that 
matter to them and will enable media owners to identify potential 
advertisers and make more informed content and scheduling 
decisions so as to deliver the target audience that advertisers 
require. YouGov Profiles will be delivered through a “point and 
click” tool, which will give users access to a wide range of 
detailed and connected data and provides analytics methods 
with which to interrogate and interpret the data. The full UK 
launch will take place at the Festival of Marketing in November, 
followed by rollouts in the USA and Germany later in the 2014/15 
financial year.
Expand our geographic footprint 
As a result of the acquisition of Decision Fuel in January 2014, 
YouGov has extended its footprint into Asia Pacific where 
the growth of a more sophisticated consumer base is driving 
demand for reliable yet economically priced research data, 
which YouGov is well-placed to provide. The new YouGov Asia 
Pacific team has integrated smoothly with the wider Group. 
The regional operation was extended to Indonesia in September 
2014, and we now have an office in Jakarta in addition to the 
Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore offices already in place at 
the time of the acquisition. Consistent with the rest of the Group, 
future growth in the region will be centred on BrandIndex and 
Omnibus both of which are already being rolled out there. 
Grow our suite of data products and services
Data products and services have remained the main driver of 
YouGov’s growth in FY14 and the operational leverage that they 
support also contributed to the significant profit growth in the 
year. In addition to the continued growth and development of 
our existing services, we have made good progress with further 
product innovations that are being introduced to the market. 
Chief among these is the YouGov Profiles product. 
YouGov’s recent product development has focused on 
harnessing the continuous stream of information that panellists 
share with us to provide more detailed and holistic information 
to marketers on the attitudes and behaviours of current 
and potential customers for their products and services. 
The continued expansion of ways in which marketing and 
advertising communications can be exchanged with consumers 
has fragmented audiences and increased the need to tailor 
and target advertising messages to reflect more precisely their 
interests and attitudes. Such targeting requires more detail and 
more precision in audience segmentation when planning media 
campaigns to identify opportunities and efficiencies. YouGov has 
responded to this need by developing YouGov Profiles, a 
ground breaking new tool for media planning and audience 
segmentation for use by brand owners and the agencies who 
serve them. YouGov Profiles is a unique offer in the industry, 
which combines a richer version of the information previously 
available to marketers with additional data on digital and social 
media activity. YouGov Profiles is already being tested by clients 
and will be launched formally in the UK in the autumn of 2014. 
Strategy 
Our clearly stated aim is to make our core offering of opinion 
data, derived from our highly responsive panel of respondents, 
into a systematic research and marketing platform. This delivers 
data and related analyses and reports that can be used to plan, 
manage and refine or adapt all types of campaigns whether they 
have commercial, political, social or other objectives. 
YouGov has continued to pioneer change in the research 
industry, with a focus in the last year on developing new services 
for marketers that build on and extend our range of successful 
data products and custom research. They also incorporate 
more data analytics and technology with which to access and 
manipulate the data. 
We are developing our methodology to produce a new 
class of connected data that allows marketers to understand 
their customers in greater depth, and to evaluate changing 
environments faster and with higher granularity. This is enabled 
for clients by new data-analysis technology that makes its 
everyday application to business needs easy and practical. 
By emphasising public participation in our data creation, we can 
achieve a unique level of completeness, connectedness and 
permissioned detail in our flow of information. Our best-in-class 
scientific custom research uses superior mathematical modelling 
which, together with our data products, answers the needs of 
clients by combining social-attitudinal, consumer-behavioural 
and media-usage information in a single profile of customers. 
We believe that this is a unique market offering in terms of its 
level of granularity, connectedness and speed.
We describe below the progress made in achieving our five key 
strategic objectives over the last year.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
11
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
YouGov now has 24 offices in 16 countries and operates panels 
in 33 countries, giving it one of the most widespread international 
research networks beyond those of the four largest global 
research groups.
Integrate custom research and syndicated data 
YouGov’s integrated operations combine our own highly 
responsive online panels, the expertise of our researchers 
and our analytics and technology capabilities. These offerings 
enable us to meet clients’ individual research needs through a 
combination of the ‘connected data’ that panellists provide and 
data generated from bespoke surveys. The highly structured 
and codified profile data library is known as the “YouGov Cube”; 
it underpins the new YouGov Profiles product by allowing us to 
enhance our custom offering and transform the way that custom 
research is undertaken. In simple terms, our aim is to be able 
to provide clients with answers to their questions about the 
attitudes, behaviours and profiles of the population and minimise 
the extent to which additional data collection is required through 
custom surveys. It also means add-on custom research can be 
better targeted and yield richer insights.
In every project we will consider how YouGov Cube can 
add to this – it improves the service we offer to clients and 
the profitability of each job that we do. The YouGov Cube 
enables YouGov to help clients reduce the cost of custom 
research, and thereby deliver more value for money to them. 
This responds to the challenge acknowledged by all the leading 
research groups of an industry whose clients are choosing to 
re-direct their marketing and research budgets to data-rich 
and more analytically based products rather than traditional 
bespoke surveys.
Enhance user experience
A key element of YouGov’s success is the high degree of 
responsiveness of our panellists and their willingness to share 
opinions and personal data with YouGov. Maintaining this relies 
on our ability to keep panel members engaged and interested 
in being members. We therefore focus significant attention on 
measuring and seeking ways to improve the quality of every 
panellist’s experience under the direction of the Group Director 
of User Experience, a post that was created for this purpose in 
2013. As well as obtaining direct feedback from panellists on the 
quality of the survey experience, extensive analysis has been 
conducted into how survey features and complexity may affect it. 
Another way in which we are extending the relationship between 
YouGov and our panellists is to offer more opportunities for 
them to share opinions and information with YouGov whenever 
they choose and not just in response to survey invitations. 
Opigram, which allows panellists to share opinions, build up 
their own profile of likes and dislikes and compare them with 
others has proved very popular with panellists. It is on track to 
meet the targets set as part of the acquisition of CoEditor Ltd, 
the company that developed Opigram, which was completed 
in December 2013. Thus, the number of visitors to YouGov’s UK 
websites increased by 46% in the year to 31 July 2014, and the 
number of freely shared data points has grown significantly, with 
the monthly rate having increased five-fold during the year to 
over 5 million in July 2014. This measure is also significant for the 
cost-effective development of YouGov’s data products, notably 
YouGov Profiles, as it means that much of the core data and all of 
the long-tail data points included in them can now be collected 
without incurring direct cost to YouGov as distinct from survey 
data for which panellists receive incentive payments. 
To support the roll-out of YouGov Profiles, a new YouGov website 
including Opigram will be launched in UK and extended to the 
US and Germany during the 2014/15 financial year. At present, 
Opigram and the full YouGov Online interactive experience have 
been visible only to YouGov panel members. It is intended to 
offer non-members the ability to participate in surveys on key 
questions of the day and to share their opinions on the platform. 
This is a major shift, which will open up YouGov Online as a 
place for many more people to share their views and personal 
profiles. We expect that YouGov Online will assist organic panel 
recruitment and panel retention, and thus enable a reduction 
in expenditure on panel recruitment in the future. It also opens 
up the exciting possibility that, through the Opigram platform, 
YouGov will gain as much data from the continuous, freely-
shared, structured conversation of its members on the website 
as we do from formal surveys.
Recent enhancements to our survey platform have also 
significantly improved our panellists’ experience when using 
mobile devices and places it at the forefront of mobile-friendly 
market research. We expect the majority of survey participation 
to happen on mobile devices in the not-too-distant future and 
we are investing in the development of more opportunities in 
this area. 
Boost our public profile
YouGov has continued to be the most highly cited market 
research agency in the UK. Our position as the most authoritative 
source of data on public opinion was recently demonstrated 
during the campaign leading up to the Scottish independence 
referendum. In the USA, where there has previously been 
significant resistance to the use of online polling methods for 
elections, YouGov has been appointed jointly by CBS and 
The New York Times to provide nationwide polling for the 2014 
Congressional elections. The first poll which was published in 
August 2014 attracted widespread publicity and we expect this 
initiative greatly to boost the awareness of YouGov’s brand in the 
USA, especially among corporate and public sector decision-
makers. YouGov’s media presence also continues to grow in our 
other markets including France, Denmark and Germany in all of 
which we are now among the top four most quoted agencies. 
Under the guidance of our new Global Chief Marketing Officer, 
who joined the Group in December 2013, we have made good 
progress in developing our global marketing activities. A new 
brand architecture has been developed, bringing all of our 
products and services together within a global ‘master brand 
supported by a new suite of marketing collateral and panel 
recruitment tools. We have also developed a unified approach 
to communicating with our digital and social media environment. 
The global marketing team has been further strengthened by 
adding experienced professionals in key positions in a number 
of units. 12
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Overview of Global Products and Services
Revenue
£m
Revenue 
Growth
%
Operating
Profit 
(£m)
Operating
Margin
%
Data Products  
(incl. BrandIndex) 9.6 45% 1.6 17%
Data Services  
(incl. Omnibus) 10.1 18% 3.9 39%
Total Data Products  
& Services 19.7 30% 5.5 28%
Custom Research 47.7 1% 5.5 12%
Central Costs – – (3.6)
Group 67.4 8% 7.4 11%
Data Products and Services
Data Products are comprised of YouGov BrandIndex, our 
flagship brand intelligence tracker, which accounted for 80% 
of this category, and YouGov Reports, which provides market 
intelligence reports and sector trackers. YouGov Omnibus 
(including field and tab services) represents the majority of Data 
Services with the balance being the provision of sample-only 
services in the Nordic and Middle East regions. 
In general, data products generate higher margins than custom 
research once they reach maturity as the input costs, such 
as data collection and analysis, are incurred only once while 
their outputs are sold to multiple clients. However, they also 
require investment in product development, analytics and sales 
resources during their early stages. In FY14, the overall margin 
of 17% reflected this mix with BrandIndex achieving significantly 
higher margins offset by the lower margins of the relatively 
newer products. 
Within Data Products, BrandIndex grew revenue by 53% to 
£8.0m (2013: £5.3m) and passed an important milestone as 
it now accounts for 12% of total Group revenue, generated 
from over 200 subscribers in 15 markets across the world. 
BrandIndex serves major accounts among both advertising and 
media planning agencies on the one hand and brand owners 
and advertisers on the other. Its long-standing clients include 
OMD, Universal McCann, Bank of America, KFC and Subway. 
New client wins in the year include Carnival Cruise Lines, Air 
Berlin and Commercial Bank of Dubai.
BrandIndex’s growth this year was supported by the global roll-
out of an enhanced version (6.0) whose sampling methodology 
represents even better the consumer population in each 
category and which increased its reported metrics from nine 
to sixteen. These provide more granular measurement of paid 
(advertising) vs. earned (word of mouth) media, as well as 
enabling the consumer journey to be tracked in more stages 
from brand discovery through to actual purchase and brand 
advocacy. Version 6.1 was released in June 2014 and further 
extends the flexibility of BrandIndex data, enabling clients to 
view any BrandIndex metric through the filter of any other metric. 
For example, a client can now compare purchase consideration 
among consumers who have and have not seen recent 
advertising, or evaluate the percentage of its customer base who 
are also customers of a competitor (and vice versa). 
The range of business sectors covered has also been expanded 
to include Hospital and Cable & Satellite TV sectors in the 
US, both of which attracted multiple new clients in FY14. 
More sectors will be added in multiple geographies in FY15 
and the geographic coverage will also be expanded to include 
Singapore and Indonesia, supported by the growing YouGov 
Asia Pacific operation. The YouGov Reports business increased 
revenue by 17% to £1.1m. Its portfolio of market intelligence 
reports (previously branded as “SixthSense”) comprises some 
350 report titles. Financial services have become the main sector 
focus over the past year in response to client demand, with other 
sectors covered including food & drink, technology and utilities. 
The Reports segment also includes HEAT, YouGov’s economic 
confidence tracking study (covering UK, US and China) and 
specialist syndicated trackers on issues such as household 
debt, magazine consumption, smartphones and media content. 
Its geographic coverage includes the UK (its largest market), 
France, Germany and the US. The core of YouGov Reports is 
panel-based research data drawn from YouGov’s panel which 
is combined with information on market sizes, brand analysis, 
competitive benchmarking and market forecasts to produce 
comprehensive analyses of a market or topic within it. 
YouGov Omnibus, our online fast-turnaround service, grew 
revenue by 20% to £8.8m in line with our strategy of applying 
the successful UK model to other markets. Its non-UK revenue 
increased by 70% with the recently launched French and US 
Omnibus services, respectively trebling and doubling their 
revenue and the German service also growing well, in line with 
our plans. The UK service, which is the clear market leader, 
maintained solid growth of 7%. Omnibus continues to enhance 
its service offering with innovations designed to meet client’s 
changing needs. These include a faster 24 hour delivery time as 
the standard in the UK instead of the previous 48 hour service 
and a new “Slides!” facility which provides an automated slide 
pack as the default means for delivering Omnibus survey 
results. Major international clients in the year included National 
Geographic and UNICEF . The segmental services (such 
as Children and Parents, Shoppers and B2B) and focused 
geographical samples such as Citybus, which have been 
successful in expanding the service in the UK, are also being 
rolled-out in other markets. Client demand for multi-country 
Omnibus projects has also grown, stimulated by targeted 
marketing to existing single-country users. 
Custom Research
YouGov’s custom research business conducts a wide range of 
quantitative and qualitative research, tailored by our specialist 
teams to meet clients’ specific requirements. The scope, scale 
and complexity of projects varies significantly both within and 
between our geographic markets ranging from large-scale 
multinational tracking studies through to more narrowly focused 
one-off surveys. With evidence of reduced client demand 
for traditional custom research as well as previous mixed 
performance within our own units, our aim has been to improve 
custom research profitability by focusing external sales effort 
and internal resources into the areas that utilise fully YouGov’s 
panel-centric methodology and exploit the strengths of our 
geographic network. Thus while our global custom revenue grew 
by only 1% in the year, in line with the global market, the adjusted 
operating profit grew by 7%. As expected, performance varied 
between regions. The Middle East business continued to build 
on its regional strength to grow revenue by 45% and our UK 
custom revenue grew by 6%, with YouGov’s reputation for 
reporting public opinion accurately also continuing to resonate 
with corporate clients. US custom revenue fell slightly by 4% 
although this was largely in lower margin areas, while there was 
good growth from new and existing clients in the consumer 
and technology sectors as well as in political and academic 
work. In the Nordics, where the strategy has been to reduce 
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review continued
for the year ended 31 July 2014 “ T oday we are entering our 
next phase. We have a 
powerful brand, a global 
platform and now are 
developing a new 
technology and approach 
to data collection and 
analysis that will allow 
Y ouGov to fulfill its mission 
as a true Internet company .”
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
13
YouGov
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
the proportion of smaller, often less-profitable custom projects, 
custom revenue fell by 16% but operating margins increased 
significantly, reflecting the cost reductions undertaken in the 
previous year. German custom revenue fell by 13%, due partly 
to client consolidation reducing demand in the financial services 
industry and also re-orientation of work away from traditional 
offline methods.
We believe custom research services will continue to be a very 
significant part of YouGov but increasingly they will make full 
use of our panel and data resources rather than being one-off 
projects involving conventional data collection. 
Dividend
The Board has previously indicated that it intends to follow a 
progressive dividend policy. Having considered the Group’s 
performance in the year ended 31 July 2014 and future 
expectations as well as its financial resources, the Board is 
pleased to recommend payment of a final dividend of 0.8p per 
share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014, payable in 
December 2014. This represents an increase of 33% over the 
dividend paid in 2013.
Prospects 
Fifteen years ago, YouGov began life as a challenger to the 
market research industry by pioneering online data collection. 
We grew internationally by acquisitions, and have now integrated 
these to become a more efficient organisation. Today we are 
entering our next phase. We have a powerful brand, a global 
platform and now are developing a new technology and 
approach to data collection and analysis that will allow YouGov 
to fulfill its mission as a true Internet company.
What do I mean by a ‘true Internet’ company? I mean a company 
that interacts with the world online and which creates its core 
product from that interaction.
The constant conversation we have online with millions of people 
is indeed our core product. As a result, companies can access 
the rich connected data in different forms. It measures the world 
today and how it is changing, helping to predict what will happen 
next and reveal how to influence that direction. Crucially, the 
process is useful for all participants: panellists and clients alike.
The foundation of this conversation was the online survey. 
That is now developing into increasingly sophisticated variations 
including the never-ending opinion profile that is Opigram: 
an enjoyable, panellist-centred programme to create rich, 
structured, shareable, personal profiles. The aggregated, 
crunchable data that it generates helps to power 
YouGov Profiles. 
The new website to be launched this autumn marks our next 
phase, in which our way of interacting with our panellists and 
what we do for our clients is visible as a single system. That is 
what I mean by becoming a true Internet company.
Stephan Shakespeare 
Chief Executive Officer 
13 October 2014 
