 4 Chairman’s letter
I am pleased to report that BAE Systems
has made good progress in 2004. The
company maintained its focus on performance
improvement, addressed inappropriate risk
in the business and made progress in
restructuring its joint venture portfolio in
Europe. At the same time, we have continued
to grow our position in the US defence market.
Much progress has been made to deliver
long-term shareholder value.
Since succeeding Sir Richard Evans as
Chairman at the beginning of July , I have spent
considerable time meeting the company’ s
management and visiting our businesses. 
It is clear that BAE Systems is a company rich 
in technology and with highly capable people.
In accepting my appointment, I had to consider
the ways in which I could add value for
shareholders. I believe my job as Chairman 
is to ensure that the Board operates effectively
in three key areas: framing the strategy for the
company; monitoring the performance of the
executive team as they implement that strategy;
and leading on governance matters by setting
values and standards that are followed
throughout the company.
With the full involvement of executive and
non-executive directors, we used the annual
planning process as a framework to challenge
and refresh our strategy . We describe this in
some detail later in this report but, in essence,
we will further strengthen the focus on 
improving corporate performance while 
building on the strong position now established 
in the United States. 
Through the effective implementation of 
this strategy we aim to continue to build on
BAE Systems position as one of the world’ s
premier aerospace and defence companies 
and deliver sustained returns to our
shareholders.
I and my fellow directors are committed to
ensuring that BAE Systems has a robust
governance framework and has the processes
to provide the assurance to the Board and
stakeholders that the company is operating 
in accordance with these prescribed values 
and standards.
Chairman’s letter
“The company’s executive, together with the commitment and hard
work of the wider BAE Systems team, has delivered a good operational
performance in 2004 establishing a solid base for future growth. ” 5 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
The company’ s executive, together with the
commitment and hard work of the wider
BAE Systems team, has delivered a good
operational performance in 2004 establishing 
a solid base for future growth. In addition, the
measures taken to enhance the terms on which
we do business and mitigate risk going forward
have underpinned the company's recovery. 
The Board is recommending an increased final
ordinary dividend of 5.8p per share, making a
total of 9.5p for the year . Subject to shareholder
approval at the 2005 AGM, the dividend will be
paid on 1 June 2005 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 22 April 2005.
Governance is equally important to our
relationship with the wider community in which
we operate. In this report, together with our
separately published Corporate Responsibility
Report, we provide more information on our
social, environmental and ethical policies. 
There has been much change in this area 
for all companies, both in how we report to
stakeholders and in the priority this is given.
Within BAE Systems we will ensure that this is
appropriately managed and reported, striving 
to be one of the leaders in this regard.
Accordingly, the Board has agreed recently to
form a Corporate Responsibility Committee that
will be responsible for reviewing and monitoring
the processes the company uses to manage
social, environmental and ethical risk to assist
the Board in overseeing the development of
strategy and policy in this area. It will be chaired
by a non-executive director .
BAE Systems should be proud of its role in 
helping to provide the means of establishing
and maintaining security in a turbulent world. 
It is always important that the company aspires 
to high standards of corporate behaviour and
responsibility. 
I have taken over the chair from Sir Richard
Evans under whose stewardship the company
has risen to be one of the world’ s leading
aerospace and defence businesses. The Board 
is grateful to Dick for his great contribution, over
many years, to this company and the industry in
which we operate.
Lord Hesketh will be retiring from the Board at
this year’ s AGM. The Board has valued greatly
the contribution he has made during his 11
years as a director of the company.
Dick Olver
Chairman
23 February 2005
