 6 Chief Executive’s review
to bear fruit with a number of significant new
business wins in supporting air platforms.
Building on the company's record in growing
support business in the air sector , BAE Systems
identified a substantial support opportunity in the
land sector . The acquisition of Alvis plc was a key
step in delivering a land sector support strategy .
Alvis significantly enhances the company’ s
involvement in the land sector . The merger 
of Alvis and BAE Systems complementary 
RO Defence activity into a new Land Systems
business enables the company to offer coherent
land sector support to the UK’ s armed forces
and the large installed base of fighting vehicles
in service with customers worldwide.
Support solutions also lie at the heart of
BAE Systems relationship with the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia. BAE Systems has a long and
successful history providing integrated support
to the Saudi armed forces. The company has 
for some time adopted a strategy to integrate
progressively greater local Saudi content in the
programme. The company is a large employer 
of Saudi nationals and a leader in technology
training in the Kingdom. 
The company’ s strong position in both the US
and UK markets presents future opportunities
for industry to support the increasingly joint
nature of peacemaking and peacekeeping by our
armed forces. Industrial participation, including
access to the highest level of technology on
programmes in which both nations participate,
such as the Joint Strike Fighter programme,
remains an important objective in this regard.
The company has benefited from good cash
generation during the year enabling several
acquisitions to be completed in line with our
strategy. In the US, five acquisitions were
completed. The largest transaction, DigitalNet,
elevates BAE Systems to rank as a top 10
provider of IT systems support to the US 
Department of Defense and other government
agencies. With these acquisitions BAE Systems
now generates annualised sales of some
$5.6bn in its North America business and now
employs over 27,000 people across the US.
The company has continued to build on its 
strong position in military support solutions. 
The strategy to work in partnership with the UK
MoD’ s Defence Logistics Organisation continues
“We look forward with confidence to delivering growing returns to 
our shareholders in the future. ”
Chief Executive’s review
BAE Systems performed well in 2004, both in
delivering good financial results and executing
actions that will underpin performance
improvement over the longer term.
In particular , the signing of contracts for the
next, T ranche 2, phase of the Eurofighter
T yphoon programme established a way forward
for the programme. This completes the actions
taken over recent years to address excessive
risk in our UK Ministry of Defence (MoD)
programmes businesses.
These actions will result in a sustainable growth
in profitability in an area of our business that,
in the past, had overshadowed the performance
of the majority of the company’ s portfolio. 
BAE Systems has for some time been pursuing 
a strategy to focus on its capabilities in
aerospace and defence with an emphasis 
on accessing higher value opportunities in the
integration and networking of complex defence
systems and provision of support solutions 
to the armed forces. BAE Systems is alone
amongst the leaders in our industry in being
able to pursue this strategy on both sides of 
the Atlantic.  7 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004
Consistent with this in-Kingdom strategy
BAE Systems has invested in aerospace and
defence companies in Saudi Arabia which will
enable the company to work in partnership with 
Saudi investors whilst undertaking aircraft 
and avionics maintenance and upgrade work 
in-Kingdom. Whilst this trend to greater
indigenous content will reduce margins, these
partnerships will provide significant technology
and employment benefits to the Kingdom and
long-term value for BAE Systems. 
BAE Systems has the leading naval systems
business in the UK. Like its UK air systems
activities, the performance of the naval
business in recent times has been affected by 
the company having agreed, in prior years, to
contracts for programmes with excessive risk.
In addition, over many years, the UK naval
shipbuilding industry has suffered from a 
lack of strategic planning and the company
commenced an evaluation of the options for its
shipyards. Whilst that evaluation was underway
the company welcomed the UK government
initiative to determine a strategy for naval
shipbuilding in the UK, in dialogue with all
industry participants. BAE Systems welcomes
this dialogue as a real opportunity to secure a
future for the UK’ s naval shipbuilding
capabilities that will deliver value for money to
the UK government and an acceptable return to
shareholders of the companies concerned.
We have also made good progress in 
re-focusing our joint businesses in Europe.
Recognising the complexity of the earlier
proposed Eurosystems transaction with
Finmeccanica we have moved to a simpler
model. The revised agreement, signed in January
2005, provides for  BAE Systems to take full
ownership of the UK activities of the former 
AMS joint venture in exchange for the company’ s
existing 50% of the Italian activities and a cash
equalisation payment. We have also agreed to
sell to Finmeccanica the group’ s defence
communications business and certain avionics
activities comprising principally the UK-based
airborne radar and electronic warfare business. 
When completed, this transaction will generate
substantial cash and improve management control
and business performance in the strategically
important field of network-enabled capability .
BAE Systems has a 20% interest in Airbus and
the company maintains a close management
involvement in the business through the
shareholder board. 
Airbus is a highly successful enterprise and
BAE Systems is now seeing the benefit of its
investment and support over many years as the
business fought to build a family of aircraft and
secure a strong position in the large commercial
jet market. The A380 is the culmination of this
strategy. The public presentation of this new
aircraft took place in January 2005 and the
programme is for first deliveries in 2006.
At the heart of BAE Systems, and its joint
ventures, lies a highly qualified and dedicated
workforce and I would like to thank them for 
their continued support and commitment.
The last few years have seen our business
turned around, with clear management targets
set and consistently delivered. Scale is being
achieved in the US and our business with the 
UK MoD has been de-risked to acceptable 
and manageable levels. We look forward with
confidence to delivering growing returns for 
our shareholders in the future.
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
23 February 2005
