 4 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Chairman’s letter
“The executive team and all employees have
demonstrated their ability to deliver results 
and I applaud their hard work and dedication. ”
Dick Olver
Chairman BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 5
With a combination of effective
strategy, continued good programme
execution and achievement of key
business objectives, including a
focus on winning future business,
2005 was a successful year for
BAE Systems.
I believe that BAE Systems has evolved 
a comprehensive and robust process for
developing strategy, including appropriate
review and challenge by the Board. The
Company’ s strategy, described in detail later
in this report, reflects the accomplishment
of key objectives in 2005 and establishes
the framework for continued performance
improvement and growth in future.
There were several noteworthy
developments over the past twelve 
months: first, the acquisition of United
Defense in June was a step change in the
implementation of our US strategy and
establishes BAE Systems as the world’ s
second largest land systems company;
second, the Understanding Document
signed between the governments of 
the UK and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
establishes a framework for modernising
the Saudi armed forces, including the 
supply of T yphoon aircraft; and finally,
the publication in December of the UK
government’ s Defence Industrial Strategy
recognised the key position of the UK
defence industry in supporting the UK’ s
armed forces. These developments,
combined with good progress on resolving
pension funding issues and good project
execution combined to make 2005 a
landmark year for BAE Systems.
In addition to overseeing Company strategy,
the Board is responsible for monitoring 
the Company’ s performance, maintaining 
the governance framework, overseeing
succession planning for the Board and
senior executives, setting appropriate
standards of conduct and monitoring
compliance with those standards.
Part of my role as Chairman is to ensure the
Board has the required skills and experience
to carry out these responsibilities in a large
international business. With the increasing
importance of BAE Systems’ operations in
the United States, which now manage 35%
of sales, we have appointed three new non-
executive directors to the Board to provide
further US perspective and experience.
Peter Weinberg was a senior director of
Goldman Sachs Inc. and is a dual US/UK
citizen; Phil Carroll is the former chairman
and chief executive officer of Fluor
Corporation and is a US citizen; and Roberto
Quarta is the chairman of BBA Group plc, a
partner of the private equity firm Clayton,
Dubilier & Rice and a dual US/Italian citizen.
With the addition of these three new
directors, the Board is well equipped to
monitor performance and oversee the
Company’ s future strategic development.
Social, environmental and ethical aspects 
of a company’ s business operations 
are increasingly of interest to a broad
stakeholder community. In order to 
advance our leadership in this area, the
Board has established a new Corporate
Responsibility Committee chaired by Peter
Weinberg. A summary of the Company’ s
corporate responsibility performance is
included in this Report, supplemented 
by a detailed Corporate Responsibility
Report for 2005, published separately.
The Board is also responsible for setting
realistic, yet stretching, targets for
management with appropriate incentives 
for both baseline and stretch performance.
These targets include both financial and
non-financial objectives and further details
are included in the Remuneration Report.
We are fortunate to live in a time when
continued advances in healthcare enable 
us all to live longer . Unfortunately, because
of this increased longevity and reducing
discount rates in recent years the
Company’ s pension funds have faced
actuarial deficits, as have the funds of 
many other companies.
I am pleased to report that the Company 
has now made considerable progress in
resolving these pension funding issues.
As the UK’ s largest manufacturing 
employer it is particularly important 
to find the right balance of measures to
resolve the pension deficit. The executive
team, trustees, employees and trades
unions have approached this difficult issue
constructively through the course of the 
year with the aim of delivering an outcome
that is acceptable to employees, affordable
for the Company and delivers forward
visibility for shareholders.
With regard to the statutory reporting
requirements, the Operating and Financial
Review (OFR) has been prepared with 
regard to best practice as established 
by the Accounting Standards Board. 
Whilst there is continued public debate
about the future of the OFR, it is my 
belief that its fundamental elements 
are appreciated and valued by shareholders.
We shall continue to aspire to be in the
forefront of developments in this area.
The executive team and all employees 
have demonstrated their ability to deliver
results and I applaud their hard work 
and dedication. Looking forward, the
Company will be operating in a time of
challenging defence budgets and our 
top priority is to deliver continuing
performance improvement.
The Board is recommending an increased
final dividend of 6.3p per share, making 
a total of 10.3p for the year . At this level 
the annual dividend is covered 2.2 times 
by underlying earnings from continuing
operations (2004 1.8 times). Subject to
shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid
on 1 June 2006 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 21 April 2006.
Dick Olver
Chairman
22 February 2006
