 progress to make good contributions when
they transition from design to production.
Alongside the good operational execution
now being delivered we continue to strive to
further embed a high performance culture
across the Company. 
The formation of the Centre for Performance
Excellence will help ensure consistency of
performance measurement and provide
leadership and focus for the sharing of 
best practice across the Company.
In December , the Company welcomed the
publication by the UK government of the
Defence Industrial Strategy following
extensive consultation with industry. 
The strategy paper recognises the need 
for government and industry to work in
partnership to secure the best technologies
to meet the needs of the UK’ s armed forces.
The paper also identifies the skills and
capabilities required to equip and support
the UK armed forces whilst ensuring the UK
maintains a world class defence industry.
BAE Systems recognises that implementing
the Defence Industrial Strategy sets
challenges for both the MoD and industry.
Addressing pension deficits is a challenge.
Reduced discount rates used to value
scheme liabilities and the need to address
changes in assumptions for increased life-
expectancy combined to create a significant
deficit in the funding of the Company’ s
pension schemes.
The Company has recently finalised a 
plan for the largest of its funds, the Main
Scheme. The plan addresses the deficit
through increased contributions and benefit
concessions from employee scheme
members and contributions of cash and
property assets from the Company. These
actions enable the Company to maintain
this defined benefit pension scheme for
existing scheme members, at a cost
acceptable to the Company, eliminating the
substantial funding deficit and introducing
flexibility into the benefit structure to self-
fund any further increases in employee
longevity going forward.
A continuing success for the Company is 
the provision of defence support solutions.
The Company has a large and growing
business providing support for armed 
forces and government agencies. 
6 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
BAE Systems has performed well
against its objectives in 2005.
Financial results have been 
delivered in line with our plan 
and further significant steps 
have been taken to implement 
the Company’s strategy. In
particular, the acquisition of 
United Defense builds on our 
strong defence technology 
business in the United States 
and complements our established
position as the largest defence
company in the UK and Europe.
The United Defense acquisition has
elevated BAE Systems to the second largest
supplier in the global land systems market.
The former United Defense activities have
been integrated with BAE Systems Land
Systems, which comprised the former
RO Defence and Alvis activities including
Hagglunds. Integration of these operations 
has resulted in a single US headquartered
global land systems business with
operations in the US, UK, Sweden and 
South Africa.
In 2005, the Company has continued 
to improve performance through a
combination of good project execution,
cost and productivity improvements within
the business operations together with the
benefit of actions over recent years to
eliminate inappropriate risk and improve
returns, especially in our UK Ministry of
Defence (MoD) Programmes business.
The outlook for our UK Programmes
business is now good. Following agreement
on the way forward for the T yphoon
programme, it is now making a significant
contribution to the Company’ s performance.
Other UK platform programmes, such as the
T ype 45 destroyer , Nimrod MRA4, Hawk and
Astute submarine, are also expected to BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 7
Through-life support and upgrades for 
in-service defence equipment is expected 
to become an increasingly important activity
for BAE Systems as air , naval and land
sector platforms are expected to remain 
in service for many decades and require
progressive upgrades in capability with
advances in technology.
In partnership with the MoD’ s Defence
Logistics Organisation (DLO) the Company
has continued to develop and grow its
support solutions activities for the UK’ s
armed forces. The successful delivery 
of cost savings, together with improved
equipment availability across a number 
of pilot air systems activities, has enabled
the Company to broaden the scope of its
DLO support activities to the UK land sector .
Further support opportunities have been
identified with the potential to deliver 
further cost savings and improved system
availability for our UK customer and to
deliver future profitable growth for the
benefit of shareholders.
BAE Systems continues to provide extensive
support in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
principally to the Royal Saudi Air Force,
building on a relationship spanning several
decades. We employ some 4,600 people
within the Kingdom on wide-ranging
activities including flying training and
support for aircraft previously supplied. 
The Company has recently invested in
facilities to enhance in-Kingdom capability
for the maintenance and sustainment of
capability of in-service aircraft.
In December 2005, the governments of 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK 
signed an Understanding Document,
intended to establish a greater partnership
in modernising the Saudi Arabian armed
forces and developing close service-to-
service contacts especially through joint
training and exercises. Under the terms 
of the Understanding, the two governments
recognise the requirement to provide
enhanced capabilities to existing military
assets and ensure that they can be
supported by local industry. It is also
intended that T yphoon aircraft will replace
T ornado Air Defence Variant aircraft and
other aircraft in service with the Royal Saudi
Air Force. The details of these arrangements
are confidential.
Support is also now a substantial
component of our business in the US.
Following the acquisition of United Defense,
its marine repair business has been added
to the Company’ s established US Navy and
federal systems support activities to form
an integrated support solutions business in
the US.
Drawing on the depth of experience now
residing on both sides of the Atlantic, a
cross-company support solutions council
has been formed to share best practice.
A number of actions have been taken to
rationalise the Company’ s portfolio of
activities in Europe and to manage non-
strategic businesses for optimum value. 
In March 2005, BAE Systems agreed a
reduced involvement in marketing the Gripen
combat aircraft and reduced its equity
interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
The AMS joint venture was restructured 
with BAE Systems acquiring the UK based
operations of AMS and Finmeccanica
acquiring the Italian operations. In a related
transaction BAE Systems sold its UK based
sensor systems and electronic warfare
avionics activities to Finmeccanica. 
The agreement includes the deferred sale 
of a retained 25% interest in the resulting
enlarged avionics business, Selex. The
wholly owned UK activities of the former
AMS business have been combined with
BAE Systems’ other C4ISR activities to form
Integrated System T echnologies (Insyte). 
The integration of systems into digital
networks, or Network Enabled Capability
(NEC), is transforming defence capabilities.
Insyte is working in partnership with the UK
MoD, to deliver transformational capabilities
to the UK armed forces through the
application of emerging NEC technologies. 
The sale of Atlas Elektronik, the naval
systems business based in Germany,
jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS was
agreed in December 2005 and is expected
to complete in the first half of 2006,
subject to regulatory approval.
BAE Systems has valuable interests in 
the MBDA guided weapons joint venture 
and Airbus. 
MBDA continues to perform well with 
good order intake. A further step in the
consolidation of the European guided
weapons industry was achieved with the
agreement to integrate fully the German
missile business LFK into MBDA.
Airbus produced another strong financial
performance despite a continued high level
of investment in new product development.
Order intake was substantially ahead of
plan, benefiting from strength in a number 
of markets including China, India and the
Middle East. Aircraft demand has also 
been stimulated by the enhanced 
operating economics of new products 
such as the A380 and A350 airliners 
now under development.
In summary, we have had a good year ,
delivering a strong set of financial results
and meeting our overall objectives for 2005.
We are successfully executing our strategy.
We have further strengthened our position in
the United States, restructured our portfolio
of business interests in Europe and, through
a combination of factors, we now have a
much enhanced outlook for our business in
the UK. We are delivering shareholder value
by being the premier transatlantic defence
and aerospace company.
We are now a very well balanced Company,
not overly dependent on any one sector but
generating good returns for shareholders
from a broad base of operations in the
world’ s key defence and aerospace markets.
BAE Systems is set to deliver good growth
and we look forward with confidence to
building on our particularly strong
performance in 2005 with continued 
good progress through 2006.
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
22 February 2006
“Financial results have been delivered in line with 
our plan and further significant steps have been
taken to implement the Company’ s strategy. ”
