 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 6
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s review
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
A strong platform
for future performance
BAE Systems delivered another 
year of good financial performance,
underpinned by programme schedule
and cost adherence across the Group. www.baesystems.com 7
Performance Centred Leadership (PCL)
The Group’s PCL framework was
designed and developed using best
practice from around the globe. It drives
business success by linking individual
goals with the wider goals of the
organisation, enabling employees 
to understand how their own success
contributes to the success of the 
whole business. 
Support Council
A support council has been created 
to share best practice and co-ordinate
support activities and processes 
across the Group with the objective 
of optimising through-life support, not 
only for in-service equipment, but also
for platforms under development. 
Chief Executive’s review
Year in review
BAE Systems delivered another year of 
good financial performance, underpinned 
by programme schedule and cost adherence
across the Group and reflecting the benefits
now flowing from our world-class Lifecycle
Management and Performance Centred
Leadership processes. 
The performance of the US businesses 
has again been excellent with the Group’s
expansion in the US market over recent
years generating good returns. Good
progress has continued in the UK
businesses with programmes on track 
and meeting their key milestones. 
A number of export opportunities have also
progressed, most notably in the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia where, under an agreement
between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
the UK government, the Group is working to
modernise the Saudi armed forces including
progressing towards a contract for 72
Typhoon aircraft.
We have continued to divest those businesses
that were non-core to our strategy. In May 
the Group initiated the sale of its 20%
shareholding in Airbus. The decision to 
sell the Airbus stake was consistent with 
our strategy of maximising value from 
that business, recognising it was facing 
an increasing number of challenges. The 
sale was completed in October following
shareholder approval. The proceeds will 
be directed to developing the core business 
and a repurchase of up to £500m of the
Group’s shares is underway.
The sale of the Aerostructures business 
was completed in March and the sale of
Atlas Elektronik was completed in August.
A big concern for the Group in recent years
has been the funding of its pension schemes.
Agreements were concluded during 2006 
to address funding deficits. The revised
funding plan in the UK schemes includes a
combination of higher company and employee
contribution rates, reductions in future
benefits for employees and one-off cash and
asset contributions by the Group. This shared
approach has achieved a good outcome for
all parties. The Board is in consultation with
the trustees of the Group’s pension schemes
to consider the implication of the Airbus sale
on pension scheme funding.
US businesses
In the US, the integration of the former
United Defense activities into BAE Systems
has been completed successfully. The land,
armaments and ship repair activities that
comprised the acquired United Defense
business are performing well. 
The Electronics, Intelligence & Support
business continued to achieve growth 
ahead of the addressable US Department 
of Defense (DoD) budget, with like-for-like
sales up 6%. Contributing to this growth 
was strong demand for electronic protection
systems. The business continues to lay the
foundations for sustained performance with
new business wins, including substantial
contracts for Common Missile Warning
Systems to protect aircraft.
A number of significant new support
business wins include the award of a prime
contract to provide software development
and management support services to 
the Department of Homeland Security.
BAE Systems continues to look for
opportunities to grow its US business 
by acquisition following the successful
additions to the Group over recent years.
Progress has been slowed by sustained 
high valuations of businesses that would
align with the Group’s strategy. Further
acquisitions will have to continue to meet
our strict value creation criteria. In the
meantime, organic growth in the US
businesses continues.
The focus on current operations in
Afghanistan and Iraq is generating a high
level of armoured vehicle reset activity such
as the return of Bradley vehicles to ‘as 
new’ condition. Substantial funding for such
reset activities has been available through
supplemental budgets in support of current
military operations. Supplemental spending
is expected to continue in the near term 
but the Group’s business plans are based
on more prudent longer-term assumptions.
BAE Systems is a leader in electronic
warfare technology including electronic
protection systems. Such advanced
protection systems are expected to 
continue to be a funding priority.
Equipment modernisation is also expected
to continue and the Group is actively
involved in current and new generation 
land systems, including Future Combat
System variants. In addition, the digitised,
A3, version of the Bradley is a core element
of the modernisation and modularisation 
of US forces.
BAE Systems is a high technology 
business and a major participant in force
transformation activities including new
generation Intelligence, Surveillance and
Reconnaissance programmes. 
As a result of strong positions in these priority
areas, and notwithstanding expectations for a
flattening of growth in overall defence spend,
organic growth in the US businesses is
expected to continue at a level above the
underlying DoD addressable budget growth.
UK businesses
The performance on large complex weapon
system programmes in the UK has been
good and is expected to continue to progress
as more programmes move to production.
Deliveries of Typhoon continue to schedule.
113 aircraft have been delivered to the four
partner nations including 38 now in service
with the UK’s Royal Air Force (RAF).
Flight development of the Nimrod MRA4
programme continues and the formal Nimrod under ice 
Nimrod MRA4 undertook its first transatlantic
flight in September to Eglin Air Force Base,
Florida, where the development aircraft, 
PA2, underwent a series of successful
environmental trials to demonstrate the
maturity and reliability of the aircraft at
extreme temperatures, from -40
o
C to +44
o
C. 
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 8
Operating and financial review
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Chief Executive’s review
Pioneering work that BAE Systems previously
undertook through a series of small pilot
support programmes, in partnership with the
UK Defence Logistics Organisation, is now
being applied across the MoD’s fixed wing
aircraft fleet. In December the Group signed
a ten-year availability-based partnership
agreement providing all support up to the
front-line for the UK’s Tornado aircraft.
Within the land sector, the successful
introduction of the armoured fighting vehicle
partnering arrangement is underway with 
the in-service date achieved, on schedule,
for the upgraded FV430 Bulldog armoured
fighting vehicle. In addition, progress
continues towards the transformation of
arrangements for the supply of munitions.
At the end of 2005 the UK government
published its Defence Industrial Strategy
(DIS). DIS is a very significant change
programme for both industry and the UK
MoD. It will help determine the future level of
BAE Systems’ involvement in the UK defence
industrial base as it is implemented.
It is intended that long-term partnering
agreements, currently being discussed 
with the UK MoD in all three air, land and
sea sectors, will form the basis for much of
the implementation of DIS. These long-term
partnering agreements will specify the future
capabilities and requirements for each
sector, enabling both the UK MoD and
industry to make long-term investment
decisions with a greater degree of certainty
than has been possible previously.
The UK MoD has committed to a complex
weapon long-term partnering agreement that
will preserve capabilities and business within
the MBDA guided weapons joint venture.
An integral part of DIS is the identification of
those technologies that are likely to remain
key to the future capability of the UK armed
forces and that need to be retained on-shore.
A good early example was the launch of an
Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle technology
demonstrator programme in December.
At the heart of this strategic framework 
is the recognition that industry has to
demonstrate and deliver value for money 
and through-life capability for the UK armed
forces, whilst also generating appropriate
returns for shareholders. BAE Systems is well
positioned to address these requirements.
In response to encouragement from DIS,
BAE Systems has been considering
opportunities for a more integrated UK naval
capability. Such considerations included
discussions with VT Group regarding the
possibility of a bid for Babcock. These 
initial discussions were not taken forward
but opportunities for consolidation of the 
UK naval industry continue to be explored, 
and, in December, the Group announced
discussions with VT Group with a view to
integrating the naval surface ship activities.
Other markets
In addition to its strong positions in the 
UK and US markets, BAE Systems has a
significant presence in the other important
markets of Australia, Saudi Arabia, South
Africa and Sweden.
In all six countries, BAE Systems is
recognised as an important on-shore
defence and aerospace supplier. The 
Group continues to look for opportunities
to strengthen its position as part of the
defence industrial base of those countries. 
A major growth opportunity is the Group’s
role in supporting the partnership between
the UK government and the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia to update the capability of
the Kingdom’s armed forces. A key feature
of this agreement is also to assist the
Kingdom in developing its defence industrial
base and the training of its workforce. 
BAE Systems has been pursuing a strategy
to transition its Saudi business from 
a UK-centric operation to a major 
in-Kingdom presence. Consistent with 
this strategy BAE Systems continues 
to invest in the Kingdom. 
Lifecycle Management (LCM)
The delivery of the Group’s strategy is
dependent upon the successful winning
and execution of projects. The application
of our world-class LCM process is critical 
to our capability to deliver these projects 
to schedule and cost. LCM is a powerful
and flexible process which promotes the
application of best practice programme
execution and facilitates continuous
improvement across the Group.
production contract was received in July 
for nine aircraft together with an option for
the conversion of the three aircraft currently
in flight development to production standard.
In October, a production order for 28 Hawk
Mk128 aircraft for the RAF was secured.
Following the launch of the first of class
Type 45 destroyer, outfitting is progressing
to programme. The second ship was
launched on 23 January 2007 and major
steel sections are also well underway for 
the third and fourth ships. The planned build
efficiencies from one ship to the next are
being met or exceeded. Following successful
risk reduction, a small amount of profit has
been recognised on the programme.
Both of the Landing Ship Dock (Auxiliary)
ships originally contracted to BAE Systems
for the UK’s Royal Fleet Auxiliary were
completed. The Group was asked to 
assist with completion of the fourth 
ship in addition to taking over lead 
yard responsibility for the ship class.
Development and assembly of the first of
class Astute submarine progressed well. 
A key 2006 milestone, electrical power 
to switchboards, was achieved enabling
commissioning activity on the boat to
commence. Work on the second boat,
Ambush, is also proceeding well with 
major milestones, such as the closure
of the reactor compartment, demonstrating
significant schedule advance compared with
the first boat. Pricing discussions on boats
two and three, together with the initial 
phase of boat four, are well advanced.
In addition to UK weapon system
procurement programmes, the development
of the support business continues.
BAE Systems is delivering a reduction in the
UK Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) in-service
cost, improving equipment availability and
consequently front-line capability for the
armed forces. Further opportunities for
valuable support business growth remain.  www.baesystems.com 9
Chief Executive’s review
Managing Major Subcontractors
Successful relationships with our partners
and subcontractors across the supply chain are
key to our performance. We have distilled best
practice from within the Group and other world
class organisations into a ‘Gold Standard for
Managing Major Subcontracts’. Roll-out of this
best practice across the Group will accelerate 
our learning and improve performance in this
strategically important capability.
Recognising that the security and welfare 
of the 4,600 employees and their
dependants in Saudi Arabia is paramount, 
a major construction programme is well
underway to create two new residential 
and workplace facilities.
These investments establish a significant
industrial footprint in Saudi Arabia with 
a growing in-Kingdom technical capability. 
This will enable the Group to satisfy 
many of its Saudi customer’s needs 
from on-shore companies.
Industrialisation is a key feature of 
the modernisation programme and the
commitment to Typhoon will allow us to 
build on the established Tornado support
activity. Opportunities for new business in
other areas of the Kingdom’s armed forces
are also being considered.
As in the UK, Typhoon and Tornado are
expected to operate side by side for many
years and these in-country investments 
are expected to generate returns for
shareholders over many decades.
In summary, BAE Systems is progressing
well. The Group’s strategy is delivering 
a focused, high performing, defence and
aerospace business with good positions in
key markets around the globe. As a result,
the Group has a robust plan to deliver
profitable growth for our shareholders.
Mike Turner
Chief Executive
21 February 2007
In support of the Group’s strategy, the Executive Committee has agreed the top ten objectives
for 2007.
Executive Committee 2007 Top Ten objectives: 
1. Financial targets
Meet our 2007 financial targets and
through the rolling five year Integrated
Business Planning process set 
business plans that are both realistic 
and challenging
2. Application of mandated business
processes
Ensure application of the mandated
business processes
3. Programme execution
Further increase management focus 
on meeting our contracted schedule 
and cost commitments
4. US businesses
Continue to grow our US businesses
5. UK businesses
Continue to implement DIS with focus on
through-life capability management in the 
air, land and sea domains to deliver cost 
and capability benefits to our customers and
acceptable profit levels to our shareholders
6. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Progress the business strategy with 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
7. Exports 
Focus on key export opportunities
8. Partnering
Demonstrate a commitment to
partnering across the business to
maximise business-winning opportunities
9. Develop existing and new home markets
Maximise development and growth in
existing and new home markets
10. Leadership
Demonstrate leadership at all levels
towards achieving a world-class high-
performance culture that helps deliver 
the strategy and objectives
