 Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2012 02 www.zetarplc.com
The Zetar Approach
When Zetar bought Lir Chocolates in 2007, 
a licence of a different sort came with the 
business: the extremely popular and well 
recognised Baileys brand. The core Baileys 
brand values and taste profile (indulgent, 
rich, creaminess) are an excellent fit within 
the chocolate category. Over five years, Lir 
has continued to develop, hand-in-hand with 
Diageo, an extremely successful portfolio.
Leveraging this learning, Humdinger was 
the first to market licensed products within 
the snacking category. Providing new snack 
products with instant recognition and great 
taste at a competitive but premium price, 
and our customers just love our initiatives! 
Following on from pioneering the Marmite 
cashew for Unilever, we have forged great 
success with Levi Roots’ Reggae Reggae 
Nuts and followed this up with Branston 
“cheese and pickle”, as well as Ambrosia 
and Vimto fruit snacks, amongst others. 
We are working with key retailers to 
develop this exciting new category.
For the Confectionery division, the 
lessons learnt from Baileys have been 
taken by Kinnerton into the everyday 
arena with Tango, a new chocolate range 
of countlines focussed on the famous 
orange-flavoured drink.
In each case the consumer immediately 
recognises the brand livery and the brand 
values and understands the anticipated 
taste delivery. 
Zetar has availed itself of some of the 
UK’s best-known brands and we are 
working with the brand owners to 
further their brands’ reach. Zetar, 
in turn, is gaining profitable shelf 
space and selling a greater proportion 
of its products at a premium margin. 
Group at a glance
NATURAL SNACKS DIVISION
LEADING WITH INNOVATION IN THE FRUIT 
AND NUT SNACK SECTORS
Our Natural Snacks division is a leading UK 
supplier of dried fruit and nuts to a wide range of 
customers, including the main multiple retailers 
along with a number of specialist retailers, for 
both snacking and home-baking occasions. We 
have a growing number of added-value lines for 
both nuts and fruit snacks under our own brands, 
such as Humdinger and Fruit Factory, and also 
under-licence, such as Marmite, Reggae Reggae, 
Branston, Guinness, Vimto and Ambrosia.
Our locations
Our business
 Zetar Plc and Confectionery head office
 Confectionery
 Natural Snacks
CONFECTIONERY DIVISION
ONE OF THE UK’S LEADING INDEPENDENT 
CHOCOLATE MANUFACTURERS
Our Confectionery division is a leading independent 
UK chocolate manufacturer, supplying a wide range 
of “everyday” and seasonal products to the main multiple 
retailers. We are the UK market leader in children’s 
character products, nut-free and allergen-free chocolate, 
and a major Easter egg and Advent calendar supplier. 
In addition, we produce high quality boxed chocolates 
under our own Lir brand and we manufacture a range 
of brands under licence, such as Baileys, Guinness, 
Famous Grouse and Tango. We are recognised for 
our creativity in developing new products and 
provide a constant stream of innovative product ideas 
to our customers.
(2011: £85.9m)
(2011: £49.1m)
2012 revenue : £87.8m 
2012 revenue: £40.4m
Our
formula for
a successful
future
Our r
formula fo or r
a successful
future
Now in
France
32% 
Group total
68% 
Group total Year in review Corporate governance Financial statements
Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2012 03 www.zetarplc.com
We strive to provide bespoke solutions 
where required to do so for all core 
customers, serviced by dedicated 
relationship development teams who 
proactively generate new products 
for customers to enable them to offer 
a point of difference. Our well-invested 
flexible manufacturing facilities are 
essential to support our business, 
whether producing unique new products 
or value-for-money variants of an 
existing range to help our customers 
achieve their pricing needs.
Our business model
Our growing portfolio of brands
Product innovation
Everyday products
Our brands
Flexible manufacturing
Product innovation
Everyday products
Our brands
Flexible manufacturing
