 2006: a successful year
for BAE Systems
BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 4
Operating and financial review
Chairman’s letter
Chairman’s letter
Dick Olver
Chairman
Good operational performance 
and effective implementation 
of a well-defined, soundly based
strategy are combining to deliver 
real performance. www.baesystems.com 5
Chairman’s letter
Good operational performance and effective
implementation of a well-defined, soundly
based strategy are combining to deliver 
real performance.
The focus of the Group’s strategy in recent
years has seen a drive to improve returns
and eliminate excessive risk in the UK-
based operations, alongside the expansion
of the Group’s presence in the US. This 
twin approach is transforming the Group’s
performance in the UK market and has
established BAE Systems as one of the
major US defence companies. 
Notable achievements in 2006 included 
the resolution of the approach to funding the
deficit on the Group’s pension schemes, the
completion of the sale of our 20% interest in
Airbus and good progress towards securing
further significant business in Saudi Arabia.
Underlying these individual achievements
has been a broad-based improvement in
performance across the Group.
In addition to continuing to pursue the
development of the Group in its two largest
defence and aerospace markets, the UK 
and the US, the Group’s strategy recognises
opportunities in the other home markets 
in which BAE Systems has a local presence
and capability; Australia, Saudi Arabia, 
South Africa and Sweden.
Alongside the development of the Group 
in these six home markets, BAE Systems 
will continue to nurture a high performance
culture. The delivery of continuous
performance improvement remains key to 
the twin objectives of delivering cost-effective
capability to our customers and maximising
returns for our shareholders. 
The Group’s strategy is reviewed regularly as
part of the Group’s annual business planning
process. This review tests the continued
relevance of the current strategy. The
adaptations made to the strategy are set 
out on page 11 and reflect the progress
made over the past 12 months.
With the transition of the Group from
recovery to sustained performance growth,
we have looked hard at the composition 
of the Board to ensure it continues to
provide the most effective leadership 
of the Group’s development. 
BAE Systems has a Board with a wealth 
of collective experience. That experience
includes not just defence and aerospace
domain knowledge but brings learning from
other international contracting businesses
and finance backgrounds. In addition to the
three new non-executive directors appointed
in 2005, we welcomed Sir Nigel Rudd to 
the Board on 10 September 2006. Michael
Lester and Mark Ronald retired from the
Board on 31 December 2006. Both have
made major contributions to the Group 
and this industry, throughout long careers.
At the start of 2007 I was pleased to
welcome to the Board Walt Havenstein, as
Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for
our US-led operations, and Ian King, as
Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for
the Rest of World, including UK, businesses. 
In February we agreed retirement dates for
Sue Birley and Ulrich Cartellieri. They have
afforded the Group great service through 
their contribution to both the Board and its
committees. The Group has benefited from
their wise counsel and we thank them for this.
The Board now comprises approximately
60% non-executive directors. 
The changes in the composition of the
Board have enabled us to strengthen the
Board committee s that provide oversight to 
executive remuneration, succession planning,
audit and corporate responsibility. 
BAE Systems has a highly skilled and
dedicated workforce. Our people have
demonstrated that they can rise to the
challenge of delivering performance in 
a challenging technological industry and 
I am grateful to them for their contribution 
to the Group’s progress. 
In December 2006, a decision was reached
by the Serious Fraud Office to conclude 
its investigation related to the activities 
of the Group in Saudi Arabia. Our policies
for conducting ethical business are clear
and unambiguous, with established
processes to ensure compliance. 
The underlying UK company law provisions
concerning narrative reporting have changed
since our last annual report. The matters
required to be reported as part of the new
business review requirements are dealt with
on pages 2 to 40 of this report and cover
the Group’s activities during the year and
likely future developments. Best practice 
in narrative reporting will continue to evolve
and we will strive to remain at the forefront
of developments in this area.
The Group’s corporate responsibility
performance is summarised on pages 35
to 40 and also detailed in an important
separately published report. Like all high
performance companies, our policies 
are kept constantly under review, and 
we are committed to take action wherever
necessary to maintain the highest standard
of corporate governance.
The Board is recommending an increased
final dividend of 6.9p per share, making 
a total of 11.3p for the year. At this level,
having taken account of the sale of Airbus,
the annual dividend is covered 2.1 times 
by underlying earnings from continuing
operations (2005 1.8 times). Subject to
shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid 
on 1 June 2007 to holders of ordinary
shares registered on 20 April 2007. 
Dick Olver
Chairman
21 February 2007
Dividend (pence per share)
06
05
04
03
02 9.2
9.2
9.5
10.3
11.3
