 Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2012 04 www.zetarplc.com
The year has been “a game 
of two halves”. The first half 
saw adjusted profit before 
tax reach record levels with 
an increase of 13%, but 
there were signs of some 
impending softness in the 
second half which we flagged 
when reporting our interims 
in January 2012. 
As previously announced, the Group’s 
second half results fell victim to the 
deteriorating macroeconomic climate 
which led to a further decline in consumer 
and customer confidence and ultimately 
reduced Easter confectionery orders. 
In hindsight, based on the fact that virtually 
all stock sold out in advance of Easter 
weekend, one may conclude that retailers 
under-ordered and hopefully will be 
more confident when ordering for next 
Easter 2013. 
We announced a year ago that the Natural 
Snacks division exited from a substantial 
quantity of low-margin commodity business 
and would be focussed on growing its new 
range of higher-margin branded products. 
Whilst we experienced growth of 25% in 
licensed brands during the year, this was 
less than our internal targets and was 
responsible for the shortfall in that 
division’s operating profits. 
Nothing that happened in the year has 
caused us to deviate from our strategy. 
We have made good progress in developing 
the proportion of our everyday (all year 
round) sales in Confectionery and also 
in improving the branded portfolio – 
i.e. a sales mix less skewed towards 
seasonal business. Tango has made 
a good start in extending our reach into 
the impulse and convenience channels. 
We are excited by the prospects in both 
divisions for our Guinness chocolates 
and snacks. 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Group sales and adjusted operating profit 
for the year ended 30 April 2012 were 
£128.3m (2011: £135.0m) and £6.3m 
(2011: £7.5m) respectively. Consistent 
with our trading statement to the market 
in February 2012, adjusted profit before 
tax was £5.5m (2011: £6.7m).
Reported net borrowings reduced to £10.8m 
(2011: £14.9m), being just 1.2 times EBITDA 
as we remain focussed on driving down 
levels of debt. 
Chairman’s statement
“ It has been my pleasure to have 
served as Zetar’s Chairman for 
the last seven years.”
“I
s
t
In summary
—  Growing revenue from 
everyday confectionery.
—  Enhanced brand portfolio.
—  Reduced sales and operating profits 
due to lower Easter confectionery 
sales and commodity snacks.
—  Opportunities to grow export 
sales into France and Belgium. 
—  Confidence in future prospects 
reflected in the recommended 
dividend increase of 33%.
by David Williams Non-executive Chairman Year in review Corporate governance Financial statements
Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2012 05 www.zetarplc.com
DIVIDEND
In November 2011 we paid an inaugural 
dividend of 2.25p per ordinary share in 
respect of the financial year 2011 and 
stated that the intention was to make a 
single dividend payment each year which 
will be related to earnings growth. Despite 
the disappointing second half, given the 
Board’s confidence in the future prospects 
of the business, we recommend the payment 
of a dividend of 3.0p per ordinary share 
on 2 November 2012 to all shareholders 
on the register at 5 October 2012, 
a 33% increase. 
PEOPLE
We have a passionate and dedicated 
workforce led by an experienced 
management team. The Board recognises 
the loyalty and commitment of the 
Group’s employees and is grateful for 
their contribution and the pride they 
demonstrate as they go about their 
work each day. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board is committed to following 
“best practice” with regards to corporate 
governance. The Board keeps abreast 
of developments and considers the 
implications for the Company. Please 
refer to the Corporate Governance 
section on pages 18 and 19 for details 
of how we ensure good governance 
of the Group for its shareholders. 
THE FUTURE
The new financial year has commenced 
well. A combination of new private label 
business already secured, the launch of 
new licensed brands and a growing 
revenue from everyday confectionery 
products, along with a good balance of 
third party business, gives us confidence 
that financial year 2013 will yield a strong 
uplift on 2012. 
We have an ambitious business plan for 
the next three years in which we have 
set some challenging but realistic targets 
for both revenue and margin growth. 
This involves bolstering our brand model 
with additional licensed brands for both 
divisions and capitalising on opportunities 
to drive our private label sales as UK retailers 
seek to complement their value-for-money 
ranges with more premium added-value 
products. We see opportunities to grow 
our export sales, particularly into mainland 
Europe via the newly formed subsidiary 
Zetar France. 
The Board’s confidence in the Group’s 
future prospects and financial strength 
is reflected in its decision to increase 
the dividend by 33%. 
A PERSONAL NOTE
Having been Chairman since listing our 
Company in 2005, I have completed seven 
years in the role. I feel, therefore, that our 
AGM being held on 1 October is a good 
moment to stand down. The process of 
selecting a candidate to take over the role 
is well underway and will be announced 
in due course. 
It has been my pleasure to serve you 
as Chairman.
DAVID WILLIAMS
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
W e have launched a range 
of both chocolates and 
snacks under the globally 
renowned Guinness livery . 
Guinness and Steak gourmet 
nuts are not only a snack 
that will be suitable for both retail and  
the pub trade but, in a money box can, they provide  
an ideal gift for a man.  In addition, our Lir subsidiary has applied  
its “award winning” chocolate development skills to a range of bars, 
packs and gifts to be enjoyed by traditional Guinness drinkers and 
indeed a far wider audience.
