 Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2012 06 www.zetarplc.com
Chief Executive’s review
by Ian Blackburn Chief Executive
OVERVIEW
Zetar Plc (“Zetar” or the “Group”) was 
established in 2005 to build a European 
confectionery and snack foods Group. 
We have established a strong UK platform 
with critical mass and opportunities for 
profitable growth as we align our product 
innovation expertise with a growing 
portfolio of brands. Seasonal business will 
remain important to the Group but our 
strategic objective is to grow our everyday 
ranges which will, in conjunction with 
plans to reduce the number of lines 
manufactured, also improve operating 
efficiencies and capacity. 
In the year we have taken our first step 
towards extending our business into 
continental Europe with the formation of 
Zetar France SAS based in northern France. 
After a strong trading start to the year, 
which yielded an increase in first half 
operating profits of 9%, the deteriorating 
macroeconomic climate led to a further 
decline in consumer and customer 
confidence. This understandable caution 
resulted in a reduced level of seasonal 
orders from our customers which led to 
a disappointing second half and full year 
financial result. However, during the year 
we made good progress with actions 
implemented to realise our strategic 
objectives set out above, increasing the 
proportion of everyday sales to 54% of 
Group and 36% of Confectionery division 
revenues. Our licensed brand strategy goes 
from strength to strength, with brand sales 
responsible for 34% of Group revenues. 
The portfolio now includes several iconic 
UK brands and some with global recognition. 
Our Chairman, David Williams, has 
announced his intention to step down 
from the Board at the forthcoming AGM. 
David played a pivotal role in the flotation 
of Zetar as an AIM listed company and 
has helped it to grow from a single £50m 
confectionery company to a confectionery 
and snack group with sales last year of 
£128m. The Board and, in particular, the 
Executives who have worked with him 
from Zetar’s inception, would like to express 
their gratitude for all his guidance, support 
and the intuition he has demonstrated over 
these seven years and wish him every 
success for the future. 
TRADING PERFORMANCE 
The results of Zetar for the twelve months 
ended 30 April 2012 may be summarised 
as shown in the left column. 
As disclosed in last year’s report, we exited 
a number of low-margin commodity lines 
in Natural Snacks. Also, the Confectionery 
division experienced the previously 
announced reduction in seasonal 
confectionery sales. Consequently, Group 
sales decreased by 5% to £128.3m 
(2011: £135.0m) resulting in a reduction 
in adjusted operating profits of 16% 
to £6.3m (2011: £7.5m). 
We incurred adjusted finance costs of £0.8m 
in line with the previous year which resulted 
in adjusted profit before tax of £5.5m 
(2011: £6.7m) and adjusted diluted earnings 
per share of 33.8p (2011: 38.5p). 
We also invested in three cost initiatives, 
disclosed within adjusting items, amounting 
to £1.8m to improve future financial 
performance. First, we closed the Derby 
factory of Derwent Lynton (“DL”), which had 
been acquired in April 2011, transferring 
“ Everyday sales now account for 
54% of Group revenue.” 
Summary
REVENUE
£128.3m 
a5%
(2011: £135.0m) 
ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£5.5m 
a17%
(2011: £6.7m) 
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£6.3m 
a16%
(2011: £7.5m) 
ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS
33.8p 
a12%
(2011: 38.5p) 
DIVIDEND PER ORDINARY SHARE
3.0p 
b33%
(2011: 2.25p)  Year in review Corporate governance Financial statements
Zetar Plc Annual report and accounts 2012 07 www.zetarplc.com
the business and assets to be integrated 
within our existing factory, Horsley Hick 
& Flower (“HHF”) near York, at a cost of 
£1.0m. Second, we established Zetar 
France as our French sales and distribution 
subsidiary in January 2012 with pre-trading 
expenses during the period of £0.2m. Third, 
following the reduction in Easter sales 
orders, we implemented a reorganisation 
and cost reduction programme at a cost of 
£0.6m which will benefit the current year. 
The reversal of the previous year’s working 
capital outflow, due to the late 2011 Easter, 
contributed to the Group’s generation of 
£8.0m (2011: £0.8m) cash from operating 
activities in the year, after incurring £1.8m 
of one-off costs to improve the current year’s 
performance. Despite investing a further 
£3.2m in capital expenditure and paying 
£0.5m to buy ordinary shares for the Group’s 
EBT and £0.3m to ordinary shareholders 
in respect of their first dividend, the 
Group’s net borrowings at the year end 
reduced by £4.1m to £10.8m. 
ZETAR FRANCE 
Zetar France has recently been established 
as the Group’s sales, marketing and 
distribution subsidiary with offices 
in Lille, northern France. It initially has 
three employees and will utilise third-party 
warehousing and logistics services. 
A number of character licences have 
already been signed for France and 
Belgium including Hello Kitty, Power Rangers 
and The Simpsons. The first listings with 
several major French retailers have been 
confirmed for Christmas 2012 and we are 
currently developing the Easter 2013 range. 
OUTLOOK 
We are making good progress towards our 
main strategic objectives to increase the 
proportion of everyday and branded sales. 
Our portfolio of brands has been extended 
by the addition of several strong iconic 
brands with the anticipation of signing 
more in the current year. In addition to 
increasing the proportion of everyday and 
branded sales we have reduced overheads 
and have initiatives in place to improve 
operating efficiencies and product quality. 
Whilst we have to be cautious in the face 
of the slowdown in global consumption and 
the ongoing financial crisis in Europe, which 
are contributing towards a slowdown in UK 
retail volume growth, we are encouraged 
that the Group’s underlying sales for the 
first eleven weeks of the current year are up 
by 7% and total sales growth in the eleven 
week period, including Olympic gifting sales 
of £1.5m, have increased by 16% to £19.9m 
(2011: £17.2m). Furthermore, following 
retailers’ relatively high sell-through of 
our products at Easter 2012, the early 
indications are that Christmas orders will 
be in line with our expectations including 
the first sales through Zetar France. 
The Group’s positive cash flow will enable 
it to continue to reduce borrowings whilst 
also making significant investment in the 
Group’s future growth. Although consumer 
markets remain challenging the Board is 
confident that the results for the current 
financial year will be back on plan and its 
confidence in the Group’s future prospects 
are reflected in the decision to recommend 
a significant increase in the dividend of 33% 
to 3.0p per ordinary share, which it intends 
to grow annually as earnings progress.
IAN BLACKBURN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Innovation lies at the core of all Zetar Group businesses.  
The Natural Snacks division has utilised the concept of 
applying food brand licences to innovative and tasty snacks, 
not only as everyday eats but, in the case of Marmite and 
Guinness, also as welcome gifts.  
It is the Group’s  
intention to 
continually grow 
the sales share 
of these added-
value products.
elcome gifts. 
