 Market environment
The market for semiconductors grew around 
2 per cent in 2007. The first half demand was
impacted by excess inventory and growth in the
second half was not as strong as forecast. Worthy
of note is that the market for discrete and analog
products shrunk by 3 per cent, with double digit
unit growth being more than offset by average
selling price decline.
This time last year I was quite critical about the
forecasted recovery as I felt it did not have a solid
foundation. Industry spokesmen have adopted 
a very conservative to negative view about 2008.
However, I am more optimistic as I do see the
industry in better shape than when we entered 2007.
With inventories generally at the right level and
limited new capacity ramping up, demand and supply
seem to be more balanced than for a long time.
With the uncertainty regarding the overall worldwide
economy, it is however prudent to plan for only
moderate growth for the industry.
Most market researchers are currently forecasting
around 6 per cent growth for the industry.
Revenue, profit and channels
Despite this difficult market environment, Zetex
managed to achieve growth with revenues of
$126.8 million, up by $2.7 million or 2.2 per cent
from 2006.
Adjusted operating profit was up from 2006 
by 43 per cent from £2.8 million to £4.0 million.
Almost all the financial metrics have been
adversely impacted by the significant strengthening
of sterling versus the dollar. A further examination
of this impact is provided below.
Strengthening our distribution network is essential
to fully exploit our product portfolio. As part of
this strategy we added two distributors in the first
half in Asia and two distributors in Europe in the
second half. 
Whilst these additions did not contribute
significantly to our revenues in 2007, these new
distributors are now trained and active in the
market place and we expect to see a positive
impact on our revenues during the course 
of this year.
Inventory and cash
The group continued to improve its cash position
and cash reserves increased by 59 per cent to
£15.8 million.
As previously reported, we plan to keep our
inventory in a band between £14 million and 
£15 million. The inventory at the end of 2007 was
£14.7 million. We continued to improve the mix
and kept aligning it with our selling strategies.
Markets, growth prospects, trends
As in previous reports, I will expand on some of
the technologies and products on which we focus.
First I want to cover some market trends relevant
for Zetex. I am very pleased to see some of the
expectations we have had at Zetex for some time,
turning into reality.
Reflecting on 2007, the progress made in solid
state lighting technologies has, in many ways,
gone beyond our expectations. The efficiency
improvement of LED technology has encouraged
the traditional lighting industry to believe that 
LED’s are becoming a mainstream light source.
This has initiated a whole series of new R&D
programs to embrace much more aggressively the
development of mainstream LED lighting fixtures.
Looking forward to 2008, I believe that it will 
be the year when solid state lighting starts to
become the future of general lighting.
Most of these programs are still in an early 
stage but are progressing well. Moreover 
because energy efficiency is high on the agenda 
of governments wanting to act on climate change
issues, this will drive legislation and encourage
support initiatives.
4
Chief
executive
officer’s
business review The group, with its strong product portfolio and
customer engagements, is in a good position to
further capitalise on these accelerating developments.
In August I described some of the initiatives to
upgrade our design and selling capabilities. After
our initial focus in Asia we expanded this and I am
pleased to report further progress by adding two
distributors in Europe.
These initiatives are starting to show a tangible
impact which we expect to accelerate during the
course of the year.
Research and development
New products are the life blood of our industry. 
We increased our investment in R&D from 
£6.6 million in 2006 to £7.2 million in 2007, of
which £4.3 million was capitalised. This represents
11 per cent of revenues and whilst this was
broadly in line with our longer term strategic plan,
we moderated spending in line with slower than
anticipated market growth.
As forecast in August, we completed the verification
of our digital audio chip set in Q4, and expect
production silicon to become available as planned
in Q3 of 2008. We continue to win further quality
customers, although the necessary technical
support of this disruptive technology initially limits
the number of new engagements. This situation
will continue until the final revision of the chip 
set becomes available, as mentioned above, 
in Q3 2008. This will be the foundation of a robust
set of reference designs, reducing the required 
day to day technical support.
We continue to work hard to enrich our portfolio 
of high brightness LED drivers. One of the highlights
was the announcement of the first dedicated chipset
for a high volume LED based retrofit alternative 
to a light bulb called in the industry MR16.
This chipset was announced in November and 
in order to shorten the time to revenue, the group
followed up with the robust reference design at 
the very beginning of the year. In the meantime,
we shipped over a hundred evaluation boards 
to more than 30 different customers. Whilst it is
exciting to be providing disruptive technologies 
for very high volume applications, the design-in
cycle and production ramp is considerable and
tends to be in the 24 month range. As previously
reported we do expect revenues from these
technologies in Q4 2008 accelerating in 2009.
We continued to strengthen our industry leading
high performance bipolar discrete portfolio by
adding products targeting specific high volume
application where the technology brings value 
to the customer and their end product. We are 
in the process of releasing more than a dozen
MOSFETs designed using a foundry based process,
and we are demonstrating real progress in using
third party IP and manufacturing sources.
I would like to draw to your attention the 
progress that we are making with our products 
for the digital broadcasting systems (DBS) 
market. As previously reported, we command 
a market share of above 50 per cent for circuits
incorporated in the low noise block (LNB) of
satellite antenna dishes. Whilst these products
contributed towards our fixed costs, they are
having a negative impact on average gross profit
margins, as prices were driven down primarily by
enterprises reverse engineering Zetex’ products.
We did engage in a program converting and 
adding functionality to our DBS products using
advanced foundry technologies. I am very pleased 
to report that the company executed well and 
the design-in of the new products is gaining
traction quickly. We expect to see improved DBS
margins in the fourth quarter of 2008.
