 Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors’ report – Business review
Chief Executive’s review
6 www.baesyste  ms.com
Delivering global growth
“BAE Systems once again performed well 
in 2007. Each of the four business sectors
delivered good profitability underpinned 
by good programme schedule and cost
performance across the Group. ”
Mike Turner Chief Executive
Objective What we have achieved
The Group performed well and delivered its
financial plan for the year and a strong five-year
business plan was presented to and agreed by
the Board.
The Group continued to embed the principles 
of good governance, values, policies and
processes that guide our work and behaviour,
with a clear system of delegated authority 
across the Group.
Programme execution is central to the Group 
and a key determinant of customer satisfaction.
Both schedule and cost performance improved 
in 2007 and will continue to be a focus of
management attention, building on the excellent
progress in recent years.
1. Meet financial
targets
2. Ensure
application 
of mandated
business 
processes
3. Further increase
management
focus on
programme
execution 
Performance against top ten objectives for 2007
The Board reviews and updates the Group strategy
annually. Our strategy is ‘to deliver sustainable
growth in shareholder value by being the premier
global defence and aerospace company’. Within 
this context the Chief Executive and the Executive
Committee agree the Group strategic objectives, the
business portfolio actions and the top ten objectives
for the executive team each year. The following
summarises achievements against the 2007 top 
ten objectives. The top ten objectives for 2008 
are set out on page 11. Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 7
is the very strong growth in the land systems business in recent 
years. Following the earlier acquisitions of Alvis in 2004 and United
Defense in 2005, the acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc. in 2007 has
established BAE Systems as having a clear leadership position in the
land sector.
Our multi-home market business focus continues to generate
opportunities for growth, especially in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
where the Group has a growing home market position.
United States
BAE Systems is a valued, trusted and high-performing part of the US
defence industrial base and is one of the top ten largest defence
companies in the US.
In the US, the Group is a market leader in advanced information
technology, intelligence analysis, geospatial exploitation software 
and the development of knowledge-based systems. In addition,
BAE Systems continues to see strong demand for sophisticated
electronic warfare and protection systems, and in its support solutions
business the ship repair facilities have remained fully utilised. 
In the land systems sector, further contracts to reset Bradley combat
vehicles and other US tracked vehicles to ‘as new’ condition were
awarded, providing extended visibility of throughput at the current 
high level of activity. In addition to the high volume of reset activity,
strong demand for vehicle upgrades with new digital systems
Objective What we have achieved
The Group is achieving success growing in the US,
with 19% organic growth and the acquisition of
Armor Holdings, Inc. in 2007.
Progress in implementing the Defence Industrial
Strategy in the UK was made, which will deliver
combined benefits of more capability and lower 
cost for the UK customer and acceptable returns for
industry through long-term partnering agreements.
The business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
is moving forward with the established core
programme progressing well, in-Kingdom
investment is ongoing and significant new
business has been achieved.
The contract award for 72 Typhoons for Saudi
Arabia was a notable success. Whilst export
markets are very competitive, the Group continues
to address a number of opportunities for exports
from each of its six home markets.
4. Grow US
businesses
5. Continue to
implement the
UK Defence
Industrial
Strategy
6. Progress the
business in the
Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia
7. Focus on key
export
opportunities 
Objective What we have achieved
8. Demonstrate
a commitment
to partnering
9. Develop
existing and
new home
markets
10. Demonstrate
leadership at
all levels
BAE Systems once again performed well in 2007, demonstrating the
significant fundamental strengths and quality of the business. EBITA
1
increased by 22% to £1,477m on sales
2
of £15,710m, up 14%
compared with 2006. Underlying earnings
3
per share increased 30% 
to 31.0p for the year. The Group had net cash of £700m at year end,
having invested $4.5bn (£2.2bn) excluding fees in the acquisition 
of Armor Holdings, Inc. during the year.
Each of the four business sectors delivered good profitability  with
return on sales exceeding 8.5% in all sectors. This profitability 
stems from good programme cost and schedule performance 
across the Group.
Underlying this performance are principles of ethical conduct, good
governance, our values and policies and processes that guide the
Group’s business and the behaviour of its people, with a clear system
of delegated authority within a ‘One Company’ approach. BAE Systems
is determined that the business policies and processes mandated
across the organisation align with global best practice. 
BAE Systems is a global company with a strategy currently focused
around six home markets. Together these home markets were
responsible for generating 85% of Group sales
2
in 2007 (2006 84%). 
The Group is benefiting from a well-executed strategy with good
profitable growth generated from substantial business operations in
its home markets and especially the United States. A notable success
The Group continues to identify and benefit from
opportunities to work together and share best
practice across the Group’s global businesses.
Constraints to technology sharing between the 
UK and US remain but in June 2007 the US
President and UK Prime Minister signed a defence
technology treaty. Once ratified by the US Senate,
this would mark a significant step forward towards
greater technology co-operation.
The Group is successfully implementing its
strategy to develop the six home markets in which
it currently operates and is pursuing opportunities
to establish additional new home markets for the
longer term.
Underpinning all of the above objectives is an
emphasis on leadership throughout the Group to
achieve continuous performance improvements
and embed a high-performance culture. 
1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense
2 including share of equity accounted investments
3 earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories 
(see note 10 to the Group accounts) The market
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
8 www.baesyste  ms.com
Directors’ report – Business review
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
continues, in part driven by the move in the US to modular forces
requiring the fielding of a common standard of more capable vehicles.
To complement BAE Systems’ tracked vehicle position in the US, 
the Group has been executing a wheeled vehicle strategy to meet 
a valuable, near-term, urgent operational requirement for Mine
Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. This has resulted in the
establishment of a new assembly facility for the RG33 mine protected
vehicle in York, Pennsylvania, alongside the Bradley reset facility.
Following the substantial contract award for RG33 MRAP vehicles in
2007, manufacturing volume has increased rapidly in the last months
of 2007 with the completion of 23 vehicles in October rising to 102 
in December.
The acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc. delivered further progress as
regards the wheeled vehicle strategy. The business is a key player in
the tactical wheeled vehicle market and in the increasingly vital areas
of armour protection and survivability. With strong demand for its
products, notably for the Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTV) 
and the Caiman mine protected vehicle derivative, the Armor Holdings
acquisition is well on track to deliver our required return on investment.
BAE Systems has worked across its global businesses rapidly to
design, produce and deliver vehicles to protect the armed forces. 
The Group’s role on the MRAP programme involves collaboration
across sites and businesses globally, including the integration of the
former Armor Holdings’ capabilities. The programme brings together
more than 35 years of experience in mine protected wheeled vehicle
expertise and highly survivable combat platforms.
In December 2007, the Group announced the proposed acquisition 
of MTC Technologies, Inc.. MTC complements BAE Systems’ existing
readiness and sustainment capabilities in the US.
United Kingdom
The Group’s UK-based businesses are performing well with good
programme schedule and cost performance. This performance
improvement included a recovery to profitable trading for the land
systems business in the UK.
BAE Systems continues to make progress in developing integrated
through-life support business in partnering arrangements with the UK
MoD and the UK’s armed forces. Benefits are now apparent as some
of the earlier programme relationships mature. For example, the
National Audit Office has concluded that the partnered support
arrangements for the Tornado combat aircraft have contributed to a
51% reduction in cost per flying hour and cost savings over the past
five years of £1.3bn. BAE Systems is similarly involved in support 
for a number of other UK air platforms and is addressing through-life
support for the UK’s armoured fighting vehicle fleet. The Group
Supplemental budgets in the US to fund overseas
operations, combined with good growth in the
underlying US defence budget have contributed
to overall growth in the global accessible defence
market. US supplemental budgets are not 
expected to be maintained but underlying global
defence expenditure is forecast to continue to grow
with increasing contributions from the fast-growing
Asian economies. This expenditure naturally
determines where Group attention is focused. 
The top 15 countries account for 80% of the global
total and the US accounts for around 50% alone.
Most of the Group’s businesses are focused
on the defence industry and are subject both 
to competition from multi-national firms and 
to government regulation.
BAE Systems’ market position (US$bn)
Top 10 defence companies in 2007 (based on 2006 defence revenues)
Source: Defense News
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
5
0
36.0
30.8
25.0
23.6
19.5
18.7
13.2
9.9
9.0
7.6
Lockheed Martin
Boeing
BAE Systems
Northrop Grumman
Raytheon
General Dynamics
EADS
L3 Communications
Finmeccanica
United Technologies BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 9
Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
identifies further opportunities to develop such arrangements in air,
land and naval support.
The UK government’s commitment to the new Carrier programme 
in July enabled BAE Systems to enter into a Framework Agreement
with VT Group for the establishment of a joint venture which would,
subject to completion, bring together BAE Systems’ and VT Group’s
respective surface warship building and surface warship through-life
support operations. 
Other home markets
Saudi Arabia continues to be an important home market for
BAE Systems, building on a performance track record established 
over many decades. 
The large programme of support for Tornado is being maintained and
the modernisation of existing assets continues. In September 2007,
under the new defence co-operation programme known as ‘Project
Salam’, contracts were signed between the UK government and the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the supply of 72 Typhoon aircraft. 
We continue to invest within Saudi Arabia in both the expansion 
of the Kingdom’s industrial capability and new secure residential
accommodation. The first of two new compounds for our employees 
is now being occupied in Riyadh.
In Sweden, production of the CV90 infantry fighting vehicle is underway for
the Dutch Army, continuing the good export performance of this business. 
In Australia, the Group continues to build on its position as a through-
life capability partner to the Australian Defence Force, including a
follow-on multi-year support contract for the Hawk aircraft.
The selection by Australia of the FMTV as the basis for the Land 121
vehicle programme will generate substantial industrial involvement in
Australia. BAE Systems is also a major subcontractor on the Australian
Wedgetail Airborne Early Warning and Control programme, where we 
are jointly engaged with Boeing and the customer to re-baseline 
this programme.
In January 2008, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of
Tenix Defence, a leading Australian defence contractor. The acquisition
will more than double BAE Systems’ presence in Australia, making 
it the largest in-country supplier to the Australian Defence Force. The
organisations are an excellent fit and have largely complementary
programmes and capabilities. This acquisition is a significant step in
the implementation of the Group’s strategy to develop as the premier
global defence and aerospace company by growing the business in
Australia, one of the Group’s six home markets.
In South Africa, the land systems OMC business is achieving growth
through exports with its RG31 and RG32 mine protected vehicles.
Global equipment market (US$bn)
2007 estimated defence procurement
Forecast defence budget by major region 
(US$bn in constant 2008 prices)
The US represents around 50% of the total forecast global defence spend 
(including equipment, personnel and operating costs) to 2010.
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis
15 14 13 12 11 10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
200
0
Year
0 15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120 135 150
Rest of World (excluding markets inaccessible for business by the Group)
Europe (West, Central and Eastern European countries, excluding former 
Soviet Union nations)
US supplemental budget
US base budget
US (including supplemental budgets, excluding Research, Testing, 
Development & Evaluation)
Europe (West, Central and Eastern European countries, excluding former Soviet
Union nations)
Rest of World (excluding markets inaccessible for business by the Group)
The US accounts for around 50% of estimated total global procurement in 2008.
Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Directors report’ – Business review Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Directors’ report – Business review
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
10 www.baesyste  ms.com
We have excellent forward visibility and a further year of good growth 
is anticipated in 2008, including a full year contribution from the
former Armor Holdings business. In addition, part-year contributions
are expected following the anticipated completion in 2008 of the
proposed acquisitions of MTC Technologies and Tenix Defence.
Mike Turner Chief Executive
Summary and outlook
BAE Systems has a successful track record of identifying and
addressing market opportunities through organic investments and
acquisitions. Following the acquisition of Armor Holdings, Inc., the
Group has maintained a strong balance sheet and is performing well.
The Group continues to look for further value enhancing opportunities
across its home markets and remains focused on delivering good
business performance and generating value, to the benefit of
customers and shareholders. 
The Group is continuing to deliver its strategy with strong financial 
and programme performance. It is delivering value for money and
capability to its customers and is well positioned for the future with 
an established footprint in six home markets. BAE Systems is a
quality business based on a strong, well-balanced portfolio and is 
well positioned to continue to deliver shareholder value in line with 
our long-term plans.
The defence market in the UK is expected to
become more challenging in the coming years.
Overall defence spending is being held to low
levels of real growth, at just over 2% of GDP ,
despite significant ongoing operational
commitments. Spending on defence
equipment in the UK is under particular
pressure, balancing the demands of
procurement with personnel-related costs
and the impact of ongoing operations in
Afghanistan and Iraq. A high level of activity
due to Urgent Operational Requirements
(UORs) has resulted from these operations. 
Implementation of the UK’s Defence
Industrial Strategy (DIS) is underway 
against a challenging set of milestones.
BAE Systems continues to work with the UK
MoD to ensure transformation of the
business to meet challenging requirements,
particularly focused on developing Long Term
Partnering Agreements (LTPAs) across air,
land and naval domains. 
United Kingdom market United States market
The US continues to be the most attractive of
all the major defence markets, accounting for
around 50% of global defence expenditure in
markets accessible for business by the Group
(see chart on page 9) and approximately 4% of
GDP . The US will remain one of BAE Systems’
key markets, offering programme scale and
high levels of investment in research and
development. BAE Systems has continued 
to grow in the US by leveraging its market
leadership positions and introducing new
capabilities that meet customers’ needs. 
The Group is well placed to support the US
Department of Defense in its likely emphasis
on force sustainment and readiness and
affordable transformation. 
The short-term outlook for defence continues 
to be favourable, although growth in US defence
spending is expected to slow beyond 2010.
Politically, the US is now starting the run-up to
the next presidential election in November
2008. Both parties remain supportive of
national security and consequently, whatever
the outcome, support for defence spending
is expected to remain robust.
In recent years, US defence spending has
been buoyed by supplemental budgets aimed
at covering additional defence costs related
to the ongoing operations in Afghanistan and
Iraq. When the US disengages from these
operations, the scale of these supplemental
budgets will probably decline.  Directors’ report – Business review Directors’ report – Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 11
Meet 2008 financial targets and set
challenging and realistic longer-term plans
Develop our partnering approach to meet 
our customers’ capability requirements
Ensure continued quality application of our
mandated business policies and processes
Further enhance programme execution
through schedule and cost performance
Progress development of our security
businesses in our home markets
2008 Executive Committee top ten objectives
Objective
1. Financial targets 
2. Develop our 
partnering approach
3. Business policies
and processes 
4. Programme
execution
5. Security 
Grow our US business including the
execution of planned investments
Progress delivery of the Saudi
industrialisation plan and further develop
business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Continue to implement the UK Defence
Industrial Strategy including execution of 
our transformation and investment plans
Progress export opportunities from each 
of our home markets
Continue to drive performance in safety, 
ethics and diversity
Objective
6. US business
7. Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia
8. UK Defence 
Industrial Strategy
9. Export
opportunities
10. Safety, ethics and
diversity
The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2008. A review of the performance against these
objectives will be contained in the Annual Report 2008. The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for the
leadership and engagement of people at all levels of our Company.
Other home markets
Saudi Arabia is, and is expected to remain, 
one of the major defence markets in the 
world, dedicating up to 10% of GDP to this
sector, with a significant part of this spent 
on external procurement. An Understanding
Document was signed on 21 December 
2005 between the UK and Saudi Arabian
governments, outlining plans to modernise the
capabilities of the Saudi armed forces. These
modernisation activities are underway, helping
to develop a greater indigenous capability in 
the Kingdom. 
The Australian Government has committed 
to an increase in defence spending of 3% p.a.
(real) until 2015–16, on an annual budget 
of A$22 billion. Its stated preference is to
maintain a strong local defence capability
which will underpin strong market growth. 
It has also released the Defence Capability
Plan 2006–2016, which outlines the major
capital equipment outlays over this time frame.
A total of A$74.6bn is forecast to 
be spent on capital investment over the 
next decade, reflecting the government’s
commitment to growth in defence spending. 
The UK government’s publication of the DIS
version 2 has been delayed into 2008 to take
account of the difficult decisions required 
in the UK MoD’s current Planning Round 08
following the 2007 Comprehensive Spending
Review. To deliver value for money and meet
current and future equipment needs of the
armed forces, the securing of through-life
capability management and appropriate
LTPAs will be even more necessary under
difficult budgetary conditions.
South Africa, with one of the best trained
and equipped militaries in sub-Saharan
Africa, is spending between 1.2% and 1.6%
p.a. of its GDP on defence. It is currently
undergoing a major re-equipment programme
as a result of defence procurements
approved by the government in 1999. 
The Swedish military is also undergoing
reform as it changes from a force for
defence against invasion to one that 
is more flexible and mobile. Since the
beginning of this process, defence spending
fell from 2% of GDP to 1.4% in 2006. Over
the same period there has been government
encouragement for the industry to move
towards greater participation in international
collaborative programmes. 
To enhance its positions in these markets
and optimise its ability to execute its home
market strategy, the Company intends to
establish home market advisory boards in
those markets where it would benefit from
advice focused on in-country business
development and industrial partnering. 
