 2 www.baesyste  ms.com
to achieve the highest standards of governance in the conduct of our
day-to-day business. 
As part of that drive, the Board agreed to undertake an expert and
independent audit of our ethical business conduct, to measure where
we stand today and to provide a point of reference with which to
measure our progress over time. In June 2007, the Board appointed
an independent committee, chaired by Lord Woolf, the former Lord
Chief Justice of England and Wales. The Woolf Committee will report
on the status of ethics and governance in the Group and make
recommendations on improving
areas of weakness that may 
be found. The report will be
published and the Board has
undertaken to act on all 
such recommendations of the
Committee. We have taken 
this bold step because we are
committed to being the industry
leader in business ethics. The
Woolf Committee report will be 
a valuable tool in our pursuit of
this objective.
During the year, further changes
were made in the composition of
the Board. With a ratio of eight
Directors’ report
Chairman’s letter
“2007 has been another successful year for 
BAE Systems. The Group has again delivered 
a strong financial performance and has
achieved much success in pursuit of its
strategic objectives. ”
Dick Olver Chairman
2007: A year of delivery
1 earnings excluding amortisation
and impairment of intangible
assets, non-cash finance
movements on pensions and
financial derivatives, and uplift 
on acquired inventories (see 
note 10 to the Group accounts)
2007 was another successful year for BAE Systems. The Group has
again delivered a strong financial performance and has achieved much
success in pursuit of its strategic objectives. 
Our multi-home market strategy continues to generate opportunities
for growth.
In the UK, an increased emphasis on through-life business support 
is being addressed successfully. Similarly, the Group’s strategy to
develop an enhanced industrial presence in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia has underpinned the winning of substantial new business 
that will provide future growth in that market.
In the US, we continue to see the benefits of a well-executed
acquisition strategy.
Our global strategy will continue to develop. The Group’s focus on
business in its six home markets is delivering good returns and
consideration is now being given to establish a presence in new
home markets. 
A more global footprint brings with it responsibility to a wider, more
diverse stakeholder base. As we grow internationally, it becomes
increasingly important to keep pace with evolving customer and
stakeholder expectations – both in programme delivery and the
methods by which we deliver our business. We seek to nurture a
culture within the Group of continuous improvement – in all aspects 
of business performance. This includes ethical awareness as we work
13.6
18.4
23.8
31.0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
07 06 05 04
Underlying earnings
1
per share
from continuing operations (pence) The Woolf Committee
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 3
independent non-executive directors to four executive directors,
excluding myself as Chairman, we have a strong Board with a wealth 
of experience in both our own industry and international business
generally. During the year we welcomed Andy Inglis, who has a strong
background in global programme execution, to the Board. Also, I am
pleased to report that Ravi Uppal will be joining the Board in April as 
a non-executive director. He is currently President, Global Markets for
ABB Limited and has first hand experience of managing engineering
and technology businesses in Europe, the Middle East and India. One
of our current non-executive directors, Peter Weinberg, will be standing
down and not seeking re-election at this year’s Annual General
Meeting in May. He leaves us to dedicate more time to his business
interests as a partner in the rapidly growing financial services firm,
Perella Weinberg Partners. I wish him well for the future. 
Ulrich Cartellieri, Steve Mogford and Chris Geoghegan retired from 
the Board during the year and my sincere thanks go to them for their
dedicated service to the Group.
Succession planning is vital to the wellbeing of a company, and 
BAE Systems has a well-defined and rigorous process for ensuring 
the continuity of high quality management appointments throughout
the Group. The announcement setting out the timetable for the
appointment of a successor to Mike Turner as Chief Executive, when
he steps down in August 2008, is a key part of that planning process.
Mike has made an outstanding contribution across his 42 years 
with the Group, starting as an apprentice and culminating as Chief
Executive of the highly successful company that BAE Systems is today. 
Mike leads a highly skilled workforce of some 97,500 people who
have delivered excellent performance during the year by providing
outstanding capability and support for the armed forces and all the
customers in the countries we serve. I extend my thanks to each of
them for their contribution to the Group’s success.
The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of 7.8p
making a total of 12.8p for the year, an increase of 13.3% over 2006
endorsing our outlook for the Group. At this level the annual dividend
is covered 2.4 times by underlying earnings (2006 2.1 times). Subject
to shareholder approval at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the
dividend will be paid on 2 June 2008 to holders of ordinary shares
registered on 18 April 2008.
Dick Olver Chairman
In June 2007 the Board appointed Lord Woolf to lead 
an independent expert committee to study and publish 
a report on the Group’s ethical policies and processes. 
It is chaired by Lord Woolf.
The full terms of reference can be found on the Woolf
Committee website at http://www.woolfcommittee.com/
The Committee was appointed to:
– review the Group’s ethical policies
and processes, and to review the
Group’s adherence to applicable
anti-corruption legislation,
including relevant international
treaty obligations;
– reach a judgement as to how the
Group’s policies and procedures
benchmark against industry
standards, whether they are
sufficiently robust to ensure
compliance with its ethical business
policies generally and in particular
to detect and prevent violations of
anti-corruption laws; and
– to make recommendations for any
remedial actions it believes the
Group should take. 
Summary terms of reference
– The Rt. Hon. The Lord Woolf of
Barnes (Chairman), former Lord
Chief Justice of England and Wales.
– Sir David Walker, Senior Adviser
and former Chairman of Morgan
Stanley International Ltd.
– Philippa Foster Back OBE, Director
of the Institute of Business Ethics.
– Douglas N. Daft, AC, former
Chairman and Chief Executive 
of the Coca-Cola Company.
– Dr Richard Jarvis (Secretary to 
the Committee), former Secretary
to the Committee on Standards 
in Public Life.
Members of the Committee
