 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Chief Executive’s review
6 www.baesystems.com
BAE Systems continued to make good progress during
2008 in addressing its strategy to deliver sustainable
growth in shareholder value by being the premier global
defence and aerospace company.
The Group performed well with organic growth in our US
businesses benefiting from strong demand in their respective
market sectors. The Group has also delivered growth from recent
acquisitions. Increased profitability is being achieved across this
higher volume of business from good programme execution.
The Group continues to benefit from delivery against its strategic
framework. The Group’s progression has been achieved through
the focus on existing defence capabilities,the broadening to other
domains such as the land systems sector,and the substantial
expansion of the business footprint across its markets. Activity
is starting to increase in India as resources are committed to
developing that market.
In 2008,the Group has further developed the business with
targeted value-adding acquisitions.
In June,the acquisition of US-based MTC Technologies was
completed. The acquisition focuses on the substantial readiness
and sustainment opportunities seen in the US defence market and
builds on the Group’s established through-life support capabilities.
Also in June,the acquisition of the Australia-based defence
business Tenix Defence was completed,positioning the Group
as the industry leader in the Australian defence market with air,
land and naval capabilities. The acquisition is another step in
progressing the Group’s strategy to grow through the provision
of through-life capability in partnership with the armed forces
in its home markets.
The acquisition of Detica in September addressed the Group’s
strategy of targeting national security markets. Opportunities
are being identified to leverage the Group’s system integration
capabilities to meet adjacent,non-military,security requirements
for government customers.
“The Group
performed well
with organic
growth from
well-positioned
businesses”
Ian King Chief Executive BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 7
Performance against 2008 Executive Committee top ten objectives
The Board reviews and updates the Group’s strategy annually (see page 10). The Chief Executive and Executive
Committee agree the Group’s strategic objectives,business portfolio actions and integrated business plans.
The strategy is also supported by ten short-term objectives agreed annually by the Chief Executive and Executive
Committee which address the key challenges in delivering the strategy in the year ahead. Performance against
these objectives is measured using a number of key performance indicators which are regularly reported to the
Board (see pages 24 to 27). Achievements against the 2008 objectives are summarised below.
2008 performance
Another year of strong performance,with 2008 financial targets for earnings per share
and net cash/debt exceeded.
Further good progress in partnering with customers in the Group’s home markets.
The acquisition of Tenix Defence in June addresses opportunities to develop through-life
business in partnership with the Australian armed forces.
Key business policies and processes are mandated across the Group,and are an
important part of the integration of newly acquired businesses. These policies and
processes continued to be refined and enhanced with a focus on achieving good,
consistent application across all businesses.
Good programme execution has again been reflected in the performance of the
Group. The Group exceeded its 2008 targets for programme margin improvement
and schedule adherence.
The acquisition of Detica in September built on the Group’s established position
addressing Homeland Security markets in the US and accelerated the implementation
of the Group’s strategy to address growth opportunities in national security business
across its home markets.
The Group continued to grow its US businesses,with the prior year acquisition of Armor
Holdings and strong organic growth from its US land systems business. The acquisition
of MTC Technologies in June addresses further growth opportunities in readiness and
sustainment activity in the US.
The Group continued to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and remains committed to
its strategy of developing a greater indigenous capability in the Kingdom. Good progress
was made in establishing industrial capabilities to support the modernisation of the Saudi
armed forces as part of the Saudi-British Defence Co-operation Agreement.
BAE Systems continued to make progress in supporting the UK armed forces through
long-term partnering agreements. The formation of the BVT joint venture in July was a key
step in the consolidation of the UK naval sector consistent with the objectives of the DIS.
Export opportunities continued to be addressed. The Group’s increasing emphasis
is on deriving growth in its business by the establishment of industrial capability in
defined markets.
Good progress was made in embedding the Group’s commitment to safety,ethics
and diversity. The publication of the Woolf Committee report in May was followed
by the establishment of a programme of actions to implement its recommendations.
A Group-wide Code of Conduct was developed for roll-out at the start of 2009.
Objective
1. Meet 2008 financial targets
2. Develop our partnering approach
3. Ensure continued application of
business policies and processes
4. Further enhance programme
execution through schedule
and cost performance
5. Progress development of
security business
6. Grow our US business,including
through investments
7. Progress the business in the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
8. Continue to implement the UK
Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS)
9. Progress export opportunities
10. Continue to drive performance
in safety,ethics and diversity
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR
KPIs SEE PAGES 24 TO 27 p24 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY
Chief Executive’s review continued
8 www.baesystems.com
was launched in January 2009 to codify the required standards
of personal and business conduct.
The Group has been reorganised and the Executive Committee
restructured
1
. The operating group heads and functional leaders
are all now represented on the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee’s top ten objectives for 2009 are
summarised opposite. Many of these objectives are consistent with
those from 2008. In particular,the team will remain focused on
delivering financial performance,consistent programme execution
and developing business in its defined home markets. In addition,
further emphasis is being placed on safety performance and the
Corporate Responsibility agenda is made a key objective for the
executive team in 2009.
A well implemented strategy and good programme execution
are only two of the elements of high performance. BAE Systems
comprises well over 100,000 talented people working in numerous
locations around the globe. The challenge and the opportunity is
to further develop the Group as a cohesive,inclusive organisation.
The move to embrace a single,Group-wide,high performance culture
is creating an environment in which all employees can make a real
contribution and be recognised for their part in BAE Systems’ drive
for continuing success.
BAE Systems has consistently delivered progressive performance
over recent years. BAE Systems is not insulated from the difficult
wider economic environment. The Group recognises that defence
budgets are likely at some stage in the future to come under
further pressure and it will continue to apply conservatism to
its planning assumptions. The Group is well positioned,having
a large forward order book,a good balance of market positions
around the globe,a well spread portfolio of programmes and
a strategy to address anticipated priority areas of spend for
its customers.
The following pages describe the Group’s strategy,its markets
and the way the business is managed.
Ian King Chief Executive
The Group will continue to increase emphasis on maximising
defence and security capabilities across the home markets in
the US, UK,Saudi Arabia,Australia,Sweden and South Africa. In
addition,the Group will look to expand where it sees opportunities
to establish an industrial presence in new markets,such as India.
Export performance has remained solid with awards including
RG-series vehicles to a number of countries,including Spain and
Sweden,M777 guns to Canada,CV90 infantry fighting vehicles,
and a number of orders for Electronics,Intelligence & Support
products,including those in support of US platforms.
In July,BAE Systems completed an agreement with VT Group plc (VT)
to consolidate the UK naval shipbuilding industry supported by the
signing of the manufacturing contract for the Future Aircraft Carrier
programme and by an agreement for the future domestic warship
workload with the UK government. The merger of the warship build
and support businesses of VT and BAE Systems into the BVT joint
venture was achieved in 2008. The joint venture is subject to put
and call options and,in January 2009,VT announced that it had
decided to exercise its put option to sell its interest in BVT to
BAE Systems and that VT expects to be in a position to exercise
that option by 1 July 2009.
Even after the active programme of acquisitions over recent years,
good cash generation has enabled BAE Systems to maintain a
strong balance sheet. Diligent treasury management enabled the
Group,during 2008,to avoid the effects of the extreme dislocation
in capital markets. Bank counterparty risk has been and continues
to be monitored closely on a systematic and ongoing basis,taking
account of the size of the institution,its credit rating and its credit
default swap price.
The difficult economic environment,and in particular the falls
in equity markets in 2008,has affected the Group’s pension
schemes. Pension scheme funding is regularly reviewed with
the Trustees of the schemes. The agreed funding plans have
been considered over the longer term and are deemed to continue
to be reasonable. An agreement with the Trustees of the Main
UK Pension Scheme has recently been concluded following the
actuarial valuation carried out as at April 2008. The recovery plan
to clear the deficit has been accepted by the Pensions Regulator.
In May 2008,the Woolf Committee,an independent body
appointed by the Board under the chairmanship of Lord Woolf
to review the Group’s ethical standards,published its report.
A steering group and associated working groups have been
established to address all 23 recommendations and a plan has
been developed for implementation of recommendations within
three years. The aim is to establish the Group as a leader in
business conduct,not just within our sector but within the global
business community.
Consistent with the importance attached to Corporate Responsibility
and the drive towards leadership in business ethics,the Group has
taken steps to embed such issues more directly in its day-to-day
operations. An important part of this drive is the establishment
of a Global Code of Conduct in which all employees have a clear
understanding of what is expected of them. The Code of Conduct
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SEE PAGE 19
p19 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 9
2009 Executive Committee top ten objectives
The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2009. A review of performance against these
objectives will be contained in the Annual Report 2009. The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for
the leadership and engagement of people at all levels in the Group.
Description
Meet 2009 financial targets and set challenging and realistic longer-term plans.
Further enhance programme execution through schedule and cost performance.
Progress towards a recognised leadership position on the Corporate Responsibility agenda.
Drive safety performance to a level comparable with leading performers over a
three-year period.
Make progress on the four global initiatives – Land,Security,Readiness & Sustainment,
and Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
Grow our US business including execution of planned investments.
Progress delivery of the Saudi Industrialisation Plan and further develop business
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Continue to implement the UK Defence Industrial Strategy including execution
of our transformation and investment plans.
Progress export opportunities from each of our home markets.
Ensure continued quality application of our mandated business policies and processes.
Objective
1. Financial targets
2. Programme execution
3. Business conduct
4. Safety
5. Global initiatives
6. US business
7. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
8. UK businesses
9. Business development
10. Business policies and processes
Global Code of Conduct
We have already made good progress implementing
the recommendations of the Woolf Committee.
At the beginning of 2009,we introduced a Global
Code of Conduct which provides guidance on the
principles,standards and personal behaviour that
our people should bring to their business conduct.
These build on our existing policies which have been
collated into a single document with guidance to
explain what they mean to us.
We have appointed a senior Corporate Responsibility
executive,reporting directly to the Chief Executive,to
ensure that the Group’s policies and processes meet
with high standards of ethical business conduct.
We have appointed Deloitte to provide external
assurance on an annual basis as to the progress
of the Woolf implementation programme and this
will be reported through our Corporate Responsibility
Report which is due to be published in April 2009.
Our global strategy sets out our aspiration to be
world-class in total performance. BAESystems has
many business imperatives,but to succeed with
them we must develop our business conduct with
the same rigour that we apply to our financial and
programme execution skills. This includes creating
an inclusive culture where the great diversity of
talent and capability of our 106,400 employees
is fully harnessed.
