 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
2 www.baesystems.com
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
– Strong operating performance
– Broadly-based portfolio
of businesses
– Clearly defined strategy
– Embedding Group-wide
ethical business culture
– Global settlement of
regulatory investigations
Dick Olver Chairman
“BAE Systems continues to
build successfully on its position
as one of the world’ s largest
defence companies. ”  46.5
0
5
10
15
20
25
10.3
11.3
12.8
14.5
16.0
09 08 07 06 05
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 3
The composition of the Board
2
and its committees continues to evolve. 
In August, the Group announced that Sir Nigel Rudd, a non-executive
director , would retire from the BAE Systems plc Board with effect from
31 December 2009. Carl Symon, a non-executive director , has been
appointed chairman of the Board’ s remuneration committee in place
of Sir Nigel. Phil Carroll, also a non-executive director , will retire at this
year’ s Annual General Meeting. I would like to thank Nigel and Phil for the
valuable contribution they have both made to the Board. T o ensure that
we maintain the necessary range of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board, two new non-executive directors, Paul Anderson and
Nick Rose, have recently joined the Board.
The Group announced the resignation of Walt Havenstein in June. Walt
was a director of BAE Systems plc, and Chief Operating Officer , President
and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Linda Hudson was
appointed as Walt’ s successor in October . 
Following consultation with members of the Board, the nominations
committee proposed that my office as a non-executive director and
chairman of the Board be extended until May 2013 subject to
shareholder approval.
The performance of the business reflects the valuable work performed 
by our highly dedicated workforce in support of our customers and, in
particular , those who work to maintain the security of ourselves and
others at home and around the globe. It was particularly gratifying to 
see the efforts of two of our 106,900 people recognised through formal
citations, including George Thompson, Business Development Director ,
BAE Systems Surface Ships, who was made an Officer of the Order of
the British Empire (OBE) for services to the shipbuilding industry, and
Glen Chappelle, a recently retired project manager with Global Combat
Systems in Glascoed, who was made a Member of the Order of the
British Empire (MBE) for services to the defence industry and to
industrial heritage.
Complementing this external recognition, we have for some years
operated a highly successful scheme for employees within BAE Systems,
the Chairman’ s Award for Innovation. The scheme now generates over
two thousand entries annually, encouraging and recognising innovation
across the Group.
BAE Systems is a conservatively managed business with a large order
book and long-term visibility across a large part of its broad business
base. The Board has recommended a final dividend of 9.6p making
a total of 16.0p for the year , an increase of 10% over 2008. At this
level, the annual dividend is covered 2.5 times by underlying earnings
(2008 2.6 times). Subject to shareholder approval at the 2010 Annual
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2010 to holders
of ordinary shares registered on 23 April 2010.
Dick Olver Chairman
BAE Systems continues to build successfully on its position as one of
the world’ s largest, and most geographically diverse, defence companies. 
The Group comprises a broadly-based portfolio of businesses focused,
through a clearly defined strategy
1
, on the provision of defence, security
and aerospace capabilities in its global home markets. This strategy is
delivering good results from the Group’ s operations. 
Although constrained by weakened economies, defence and security 
are expected to remain a priority focus for governments across our home
markets. We will continue to seek growth in value for shareholders, but 
we are not complacent as to the challenges of the near term. Recognising
the economic difficulties facing many of our customers, BAE Systems will
continue to work closely with its customers to address their increasingly
complex and often urgent requirements in the most cost-effective and
affordable way .
On 5 February 2010, the Company announced a global settlement with
the UK Serious Fraud Office and the US Department of Justice, which
concluded the lengthy investigations commenced by those two authorities
in 2004 and 2007, respectively .
Pursuant to the agreement with the Department of Justice, the Company
agreed to plead guilty to one charge of conspiring to make false
statements to the US government relating to certain regulatory filings and
undertakings. The Company agreed to pay a fine of $400m (£248m) and
make additional commitments to the Department of Justice concerning
its ongoing compliance. Under the agreement with the Serious Fraud
Office, the Company agreed to plead guilty to one charge of breach of
duty to keep accounting records in relation to payments made to a former
marketing adviser in connection with the sale of a radar system by the
Company to T anzania in 1999. The Company agreed in relation to this
matter to pay an agreed penalty of £30m comprising a fine to be
determined by the Court with the balance paid as a charitable payment 
for the benefit of T anzania.
The Company very much regrets and accepts full responsibility for these
past shortcomings. These settlements enable the Company to deal
finally with significant legacy issues. In recent years, the Company has
systematically enhanced its compliance policies and processes with a
view to ensuring that the Company is as widely recognised for responsible
conduct as it is for high quality products and advanced technologies.
We continue to work to establish the highest standards of governance
in BAE Systems, and in this report, we describe the processes and
assurance that underpin our approach (see pages 78 to 84). I am pleased
to report that work to embed the highest standards of responsible
business conduct across the Group has progressed well, including an
accelerated implementation of the Woolf Committee recommendations.
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (PENCE)
16.0p
2008: 14.5p
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
ON OUR STRATEGY p10
2 FOR THE CURRENT 
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD p76
