 DIRECTORS’ REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
4 www.baesystems.com
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
– Continued good demand for
high-technology capabilities
– Further significant multi-year
support contracts awarded
– Delivering growth from combat
aircraft programmes
– T ransitioning from peak activity
in land systems
Ian King Chief Executive
“BAE Systems has evolved to become one
of the world’ s leading defence companies
and is well positioned to weather
the pressures in its global markets. ” BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 5
The good operating performance of
BAE Systems in 2009 reflects the good
progress the Group has made in recent years,
developing the business within a well-defined
and consistently implemented strategic
framework
1
. That strategy underpins the
Group’ s aim to deliver sustainable growth
in shareholder value through a commitment
to T otal Performance for all its customers.
In June, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of Advanced Ceramics
Research, Inc. for $14m (£9m). The acquisition supports BAE Systems’
global Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) strategy, adding small UAS
platforms and ground segment capability to complement the Group’ s
existing UAS capabilities. 
A setback for the Group was the notification by the US Department of
Defense in August 2009 and, following a re-evaluation of the bids, in
February 2010 that a follow-on production contract for vehicles under
the Family of Medium T actical Vehicles (FMTV) programme had been lost. 
UK and rest of world business 
The outlook for UK defence spending remains difficult, but the Group has
a large order book reflecting the firmly contracted long-term programmes
that are a feature of BAE Systems’ UK-based business. 
The largest of those programmes, the T yphoon combat aircraft, is set
for further growth with increasing deliveries to both the four European
partner nations and to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
BAE Systems is a leader in the provision of multi-year , capability-based,
support solutions. Approximately 40% of BAE Systems’ sales in 2009
are Readiness & Sustainment related activity. In addition to established
relationships in the UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia,
BAE Systems seeks to migrate its Readiness & Sustainment capabilities
to other markets. 
New multi-year UK support contracts were awarded in the year totalling
over £2bn. Such contracts included support and maintenance of Harrier
and T yphoon aircraft in service with the Royal Air Force, the T ype 45 anti-
air warfare destroyer (the Group’ s first major UK ship support contract),
and Spearfish and Sting Ray torpedoes in service with the Royal Air Force
and Royal Navy, respectively. 
The governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United
Kingdom also agreed detailed arrangements to provide support for
T yphoon operations for a three-year period. These arrangements will be
operated through a full availability service contract with BAE Systems.
Eight T yphoon aircraft were delivered in the year to the Saudi customer
under the 2007 Salam production contract.
In July, contracts were agreed by the four European partner nations
for 88 T ranche 3A T yphoon aircraft with a contract value to the Group
of approximately £2bn. The contracts extend visibility of T yphoon
production for the next five years. 
BAE Systems is also a significant participant on the US F-35 (Joint Strike
Fighter) programme with the combination of both airframe assembly
manufacture in the UK and electronic systems supplied from the
Group’ s US operations. The F-35 is expected to progress to high
volume production over the coming years. 
BAE Systems is a resilient business, well positioned to weather the
pressures that result from the recent turbulence in global economies.
The Group operates primarily in its seven home markets, and has a wide
portfolio of products and capabilities serving defence customers across
the air , land and sea domains. Many of the Group’ s programmes are
subject to long-term contracts, and some include agreements designed
to address and safeguard national capabilities. 
Alongside its established defence-related activities, BAE Systems has
a growing position in national security with a focus on information-based
intelligence capabilities. The acquisition of Detica in September 2008
was a further step in the implementation of the Group’ s security strategy.
BAE Systems is well placed to address opportunities in security
markets, such as increasing focus on cyber threats. 
The Group’ s geographic spread of business extends the diversity of its
customer base. The strategy, to identify long-term sustainable markets
around the globe and address those markets by building local industrial
positions, is working to good effect. India has been identified as the Group’ s
seventh home market and, in November , an agreement was signed with
Mahindra & Mahindra to establish a joint venture in land systems.
Rapid changes in the nature and evolution of threats around the world
have resulted in corresponding changes in priorities for many of the
Group’ s customers. BAE Systems recognises that agility in addressing
customers’ requirements is becoming a key competitive discriminator . 
Defence budgets in both the UK and the US are expected to come under
further pressure, and with expectations of a more challenging business
environment ahead, the focus on driving performance and efficiency in
the business will be key . Cost reduction measures are being aggressively
implemented across the Group. 
US business
In the US, overall defence spending remains robust but the investment
accounts, from which the Group derives significant business, are expected
to be stressed by the continued cost of high tempo operations and rising
manpower costs.
In April 2009, the US Secretary of Defense announced a reprioritisation
of programmes that is expected to continue to shape US defence
procurement. Many of BAE Systems’ activities are well aligned to those
announced priority changes. In February 2010, the US Quadrennial
Defense Review was published along with the US defence budget for the
Fiscal Y ear 2011 (FY11). The FY11 base budget identifies an increase
of 3.4% and within this base budget the investment account allocations
were at the upper end of the Group’ s planning assumptions.
The Group’ s high technology capabilities in the US are expected
to continue to be in demand. The business has a strong record of
innovation, rapidly generating advanced, but cost effective, solutions
to address complex problems. 
1. We understand and support our customers’ national security and
other requirements;
2. We assess carefully our products and services with the objective that
neither BAE Systems nor our customers are exposed to significant
reputational risk;
3. We work to BAE Systems’ values in all that we do; and
4. We are as open as practicable about the nature of our business.
RESPONSIBLE TRADING PRINCIPLES
1 FOR THE GROUP 
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK p10
