 ZOO DIGITAL GROUP PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
 
25/06/2010/16:22:35 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 
The board is pleased to report a strong performance ahead of market expectations for ZOO during the last financial 
year. Our revenues increased by 33% to $15.1m (2009: $11.3m), we achieved an operating profit (before exchange 
gain on intercompany transactions and exceptional impairment) of $821,000 (2009: loss of $745,000), and our cash 
generation improved to $2.1m (2009: $1.4m). Since nearly all of our revenue and over 70% of our costs are now 
incurred in US dollars, the board decided that ZOO’s functional and presentational currency should be changed from 
pound sterling to US dollars. This change in reporting currency has introduced some inevitable complications in the 
comparisons between this year’s results and last year’s, but we believe that it is in the best long term interests of 
shareholders to report in this way.  Notwithstanding the reporting currency, we regularly review our currency hedging 
position to mitigate the risk of exchange rate movements, although it is not economic to completely eliminate such risk. 
 
The Hollywood studios and other large media companies are looking for better ways to create, manage and distribute 
their content, while developments such as the adoption of High Definition TV and video, 3D, and web-based distribution 
of video, present them with particular challenges. ZOO’s innovative range of software and services, combined with our 
expert knowledge of the sector, have helped our customers automate and improve their workflow, and positioned us at 
the heart of their businesses. A range of licensing, software-as-a-service (SaaS), and pay-per use business models 
helps us develop long-lasting relationships with, and recurring revenues from, our customers.  
 
During the year we continued to deepen our relationship with our largest Hollywood customer, extending the number, 
type and geographic scope of the products and services which we provide to them. We are particularly pleased to be 
able to announce since the end of the year that another major Hollywood studio has now begun adoption of our 
technology and services. In a further significant step towards reducing our dependency on a small number of large 
customers, we announced in June 2010 a partnership with Multi Packaging Solutions Inc (MPS), which offers us an 
exciting opportunity to apply our existing technology to the management of printing and packaging media for the 
pharmaceutical and other sectors outside entertainment. 
 
ZOO is now positioned with a highly relevant set of products and services which help businesses deal with and profit 
from the impact of the digital revolution on the creation, management and distribution of all media. Our team has again 
shown itself capable of rapid development and delivery of highly innovative products and services, we count some of 
Hollywood’s major studios as our best customers, and are beginning an alliance with MPS to apply our technology 
outside of the entertainment sector. Therefore I hope that all our shareholders will share my confidence in the future 
prospects of the group. 
 
 
Board Changes 
 
Gordon Doran was appointed to the main board during the year in recognition of the importance of our Los Angeles 
based operation to the success of ZOO. Gordon has held senior positions in sales and marketing for a number of 
software companies in the USA and the UK. He was formerly Chief Operating Officer for Mediostream Inc. and joined 
ZOO in 2005 to establish our North American division. In his role as President he is responsible for all North American 
operations and has been central to the development of our relationships with a number of large US entertainment 
companies.  
 
On 28 April 2010 Christopher Honeyborne decided, in line with best practice, that he should stand down from the board 
after ten years service as a non-executive director, of which the last four were as Chairman.  ZOO has benefited greatly 
from Christopher’s stewardship and wise counsel, and on behalf of the board I extend my sincere thanks to him for his 
contribution to the transformation of the group.  I was delighted to be appointed as successor to Christopher, and look 
forward to working with the board to help build substantial and sustainable value for our shareholders. 
 
 
 
Roger D Jeynes 
Chairman 
 
