 ZOO DIGITAL GROUP PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
 
 
- 4 - 
 
 
25/06/2010/16:22:35 
GROUP AT A GLANCE  
 
“Smarter Workflows for Global Media”  
 
At ZOO we enable global organisations to develop, process and deploy creative media content.  Using our 
innovative workflow optimisation software we deliver significant efficiency gains, benefiting our customers with 
savings of time and cost. 
 
Creating media for global distribution is a labour-intensive, time-consuming process for most companies. Our 
software efficiently automates complex production tasks. Our project management software links the many 
pieces together and takes care of the management of the process.  We license our proprietary software to 
businesses that need to adapt their media for different formats and languages.  Our software is used by film 
studios and TV content makers to prepare their products for international sale and licensing. 
 
For businesses that don’t have an in-house technical capability, we offer full implementation, creative and 
production services that use our own software to deliver rapid, accurate results at a very competitive price. 
 
We specialise in a number of areas, from the authoring of physical and digital video products for DVD-Video, 
Blu-ray Disc and Electronic Sell-Through formats, to the translation and production of video menus, website 
artwork, and even an entire range of printed marketing materials. Our on-line systems are used to manage our 
customers’ projects from start to finish. 
 
For businesses that are looking to either outsource the management and distribution of digital media globally, 
or for those wishing to enhance an in-house operation with our software, we can offer a solution developed 
and proven in some of the world’s most demanding marketplaces, including leading Hollywood studios. 
 
Our software is priced to reflect the benefit it brings to our customers.  Our online systems are licensed as 
Software-as-a-Service while our production tools are priced according to throughput.  This provides us with 
recurring revenue streams and ensures that our interests are perfectly aligned with those of our customers. 
 
Software Solutions 
ZOO provides a comprehensive suite of web-based software and desktop tools to support digital media 
production.  ZOO’s Media Collaboration Platform provides web-based services enabling users of different 
disciplines and across worldwide locations to work efficiently together, such as graphic designers, production 
artists, translators, video disc authors and QC operators.  A number of desktop tools are included in the suite 
to perform specific functions, such as video product authoring and automated quality control, and these are 
integrated with the Media Collaboration Platform.  Together, our web-based software and desktop tools work 
closely together to deliver enhanced efficiencies for our customers. 
 
Media Adaptation Tool 
MAT provides a production workflow for artwork such as product packaging and posters, automating the 
localisation process traditionally performed by highly skilled pre-press operators and graphic artists. 
 
Templated Authoring System 
TAS is a workflow automation system for the efficient creation of physical and digital video-based products 
such as DVDs, Blu-ray Discs and Electronic Sell-Through platforms.  It makes a costly and laborious process 
quick and easy. 
 
Menu Regionalisation Tool 
MRT automates the previously manual process of creating menu assets for physical and digital video products 
in multiple languages and has been shown in independent customer benchmarks to reduce time by up to 90%. 
 
Translation Management System 
TMS is an important component of the Media Collaboration Platform that allows clients to manage global 
projects with complex media workflows and thousands of translations. 
  ZOO DIGITAL GROUP PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
25/06/2010/16:22:35 
Services 
We provide a range of value-added services to support our software licensing proposition.  Our services 
include the following: 
 
Authoring and Compression 
We provide a turn-key solution for media publishers from designing disc menus to authoring and compressing 
video for physical and digital video platforms, including DVD, Blu-ray Disc, video on demand and a host of 
Electronic Sell Through platforms. 
 
Video and Post Production 
We operate an in-house video and post-production facility. We provide complete support for materials like 
bonus features, electronic press kits, trailers and TV spots. 
 
Localisation 
When our customers are synchronizing physical and electronic video products and marketing material for a 
single, global release, localisation cannot be an afterthought. Producing materials that work in every region 
and language is a complex undertaking at which ZOO excels. 
 
Creative 
Our creative team includes designers, animators, visual effects artists and editors who specialize in the unique 
needs of global media producers and marketers. 
 
Consulting 
Our consulting team helps clients implement centralised workflows for localising media releases and marketing 
materials. We bring all of our creative, production and technological expertise to bear on the challenge of 
building efficient, effective global strategies for our customers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
