 ZOO Digital Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.zoodigital.com
08
20502.04 19/08/2011 Proof 6
Our Performance
Operational review
I am pleased with the performance of 
the group in what has been a difficult 
environment for the filmed entertainment 
industry. 
Filmed entertainment
The home entertainment market in 
particular has been through a turbulent 
period over the last 12 months, with 
upheaval and cost cutting measures taking 
place at many of the major Hollywood 
studios which, in turn, led to some order 
distortion for ZOO, specifically from our 
major customer. However, we were very 
pleased to note that the shortfall in orders 
has substantially recovered. Furthermore, we 
believe that the pressure that the studios are 
under to maximise sales and eliminate costs 
provides an ever greater advantage for the 
group. One of the most important ways for 
a studio to maximise sales of a new release, 
especially blockbuster titles, is to distribute 
the product into as many territories as 
possible simultaneously. By doing so, the loss 
of revenue through counterfeit products and 
illegal copying are dramatically reduced and 
the integrity and quality of the production 
is maintained. This very need to accelerate 
distribution globally in the shortest time 
frame possible makes our toolsets even 
more compelling. 
We are continually looking to broaden our 
client base whilst also striving to deepen 
the relationships with existing customers 
and increase the scope of work that we are 
doing for them. We were, therefore, pleased 
to be able to announce that Global Digital 
Media Xchange, a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of Warner Bros. Entertainment, has licensed 
our automation production solutions for  
Blu-Ray and Electronic Sell Through 
platforms. 
Electronic Sell Through (“EST”) 
Market
The electronic delivery of digital products 
represents possibly the most significant shift 
in consumers’ media purchasing in recent 
times and we believe that this creates an 
excellent opportunity for ZOO. In September 
we announced that we had launched a new 
toolset that allowed existing content for the 
filmed entertainment industry to be made 
available through Apple’s iTunes
®
 Extras 
platform. Our tools enable content owners 
to adapt additional features such as movie 
and chapter selection along with special 
features such as movie stills, deleted scenes, 
exclusive interviews, and behind-the-scenes 
footage. These additional features have long 
been associated with DVD and more recently 
with Blu-ray Disc productions but the costs 
associated with traditional production 
methods have proved prohibitive for sales on 
iTunes and other Electronic Sell Through 
platforms. ZOO’s toolset enables this 
production at significantly lower costs and 
the initial response from clients has been 
extremely positive.
A similar opportunity exists within the music 
industry. Traditional album formats often 
include extra features such as the ability to 
view lyrics, liner notes, band photos and 
performance videos. ZOO has created an 
Interactive Content Editor to enable the 
efficient preparation of iTunes LPs, enabling 
publishers to sell such content through 
Apple’s iTunes LP platform and incorporate 
many of the extra features associated with 
traditional formats. Initial customers include 
a number of music publishers in the US, UK 
and France. According to Strategy Analytics, 
digital music revenues in 2012 will reach 
US$2.8bn and surpass physical sales for the 
first time.
Chief Executive’s Statement
“We are continually looking to broaden our client base whilst also 
striving to deepen the relationships with existing customers and 
increase the scope of work that we are doing for them.”
Summary
	 Global Digital Media 
Xchange has licensed 
automation production 
solutions for Blu-ray and 
Electronic Sell Through 
platforms
	 Launched new toolset for 
Apple’s iTunes
®
 Extras
	 Our Media collaboration 
solutions now include the 
eBook builder
	 Raised $2.8m of additional 
working capital to accelerate 
development in the eBook 
market
	 Dr Stuart A Green 
Chief Executive
20502-04ZOODIGIT FRONT.indd   8 19/08/2011   17:17:56 ZOO Digital Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.zoodigital.com
09
20502.04 19/08/2011 Proof 6
Our Performance
Our Financials Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
An even greater opportunity in the field 
of EST, and one of the most exciting 
developments in the past year, has 
presented itself with the electronic book, or 
eBook, market. The success of the overall 
eBook market has been spectacular and well 
publicised. According to a recent report from 
Futuresource Consulting, in 2010 the eBook 
market grew by more than 200% to a value 
of more than US$900m. 
As a result of ZOO’s success with the iTunes 
platform we have augmented our Media 
Collaboration solutions to include an 
eBook Builder which provides an efficient 
and cost-effective way for publishers to 
repurpose traditional books for sale online. 
This new tool works in conjunction with 
ZOO’s software for managing collaborative 
workflows, adapting materials into multiple 
languages, and providing storage and 
distribution of content for multiple eBook 
vendors. Another great advantage in using 
ZOO’s toolset for eBook production is that 
it maintains the formatting qualities and 
standards of a physical production thereby 
enhancing the enjoyment of reading it 
electronically. For example, where pictures 
or illustrations are used to accompany text 
to illustrate a point in a physical book, 
current practices for converting this into an 
electronic version have proved complicated 
and many of the resulting eBooks created by 
third parties have been produced with layout 
errors. Whilst this may not be of particular 
relevance to pure text books, it makes a 
huge difference where such features are 
integral to the genre of the book, which 
makes our tools particularly applicable to 
picture books, comics, travel guides, cookery 
books and reference publications.
MPS
At this stage last year we announced that 
we had agreed a strategic relationship with 
John Henry Holdings Inc., a subsidiary of 
Multi Packaging Solutions, Inc. (“MPS”), a 
US headquartered value-added print-based 
packaging solutions company. I am pleased 
to report that we have made significant 
progress through this in the past 12 months 
and the potential new business opportunities 
available to us are extremely exciting.
Indeed, in June this year we were able to 
announce the first significant contract win 
through this relationship with a leading 
international videogame publisher. We have 
already begun work with the publisher in 
the regionalisation of the interactive game 
group’s packaging materials for multiple 
territories and languages. 
We believe that this will be just the first in 
many relationships to come through MPS 
and are currently in discussions with a 
number of impressive organisations to help 
them with the production of packaging, 
marketing and other printed materials in 
a wide range of geographies, and I look 
forward to providing further updates in the 
coming year.
Placing of shares
We have raised approximately $2.8m of 
capital through a placing of shares to 
provide working capital that we intend 
to use to support the acceleration of the 
business in new markets. I have personally 
subscribed $160,000 to the placing, 
demonstrating my confidence in the future.  
We plan to use these funds for the following 
purposes: 
n Put in place the infrastructure needed to 
establish ZOO as an eBook aggregator
n Support the recruitment of additional 
R&D staff to accelerate eBook and EST 
software development
n Enlargement of the production team to 
provide a range of eBook services
n Recruit new sales and marketing staff to 
support eBook business development
Convertible loan note
We have reached agreement with the holders 
of the $5.6m convertible loan note, which 
was issued in 2006 and was due to mature 
in October 2011. The loan note holders 
have agreed to convert 50 per cent of the 
outstanding amount into equity at 40p with 
the balance remaining in the convertible loan 
note instrument which has been extended for 
a further period of two years with a coupon 
of 7.5 per cent and a conversion price of 48p.
Staff
It continues to be an honour to work with 
such a talented team of professionals in 
both our UK-based R&D centre and our 
US-based production services facility. In all 
areas of the business our success hinges on 
the talents, creativity and dedication of our 
staff who continue to excel in delivering 
innovative technology and first class 
customer services. We strive to provide a 
great place to work to attract and retain our 
key talent. On behalf of the board I would 
like to extend my thanks to all staff for their 
contributions over the past year and I look 
forward to working together in the year 
ahead.
Outlook
Our team has built an excellent product 
platform, reputation and customer 
relationships that I believe place us in 
a strong position to grow the business 
significantly. We have many exciting 
opportunities ahead of us and I look forward 
to the future with confidence. 
Dr Stuart A Green
Chief Executive Officer
“Our team has built an excellent product platform, reputation and 
customer relationships that I believe place us in a strong position to 
grow the business significantly.”
20502-04ZOODIGIT FRONT.indd   9 19/08/2011   17:17:57
