 ZOO DIGITAL GROUP PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
 
 
- 7 - 
 
 
25/06/2010/16:22:35 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
Introduction 
At ZOO we design innovative computer software to enable our customers to become more efficient.  Our customers are 
global organisations that develop, process and deploy creative media content used in digital and physical products, 
most usually video and digital images that are repurposed for different formats and languages.   
 
We are helping leading Hollywood film studios to take their movies to market in different packages – physical discs as 
well as digital downloads.  TV program makers have used our software to prepare their content for licensing to networks 
all around the world.  Film distributors are producing co-ordinated marketing campaigns for blockbuster releases in as 
many as 60 different languages.  The chances are that if you go to the cinema or watch movies at home then you will 
have seen productions where our software has been instrumental in delivering content to audiences all around the 
world. 
 
That a company in Sheffield should play a significant part of the operations of leading global organisations is unusual.  
ZOO is no ordinary company.  Our success stems from our entrepreneurial spirit and an innovative approach to solving 
business problems and tackling workflow inefficiencies.  We have built a suite of software that redefines the way in 
which our customers work with their creative media – we automate and centralise activities that are normally done 
manually by highly skilled operators.  We bring significant efficiencies in time and cost to our customers.  
 
ZOO has been transformed since I became CEO in 2006, during which time our new management team has redefined 
the business proposition, divested non-core assets and focused on delivering profitable revenues based on a clearly 
differentiated offering.  We passionately believe in our winning proposition and that it will demonstrate excellent growth 
and deliver enhanced shareholder value. 
Operational Review 
We are delighted with the excellent progress we have made over the past year in delivering solid results that have 
exceeded market expectations. 
Organisation 
Our corporate headquarters and software product development centre is in Sheffield while our commercial operation 
and implementation and production services facility is based in Los Angeles.  This arrangement gives us cost effective 
R&D with client services close to our customer base. 
 
During the year we have grown our talented team of software technologists to respond to the numerous new product 
opportunities that we continue to uncover.  Our Sheffield team of around 35 staff is made up mostly of software 
engineers, quality assurance engineers, product managers and others in supporting roles.   
 
Our facility in Los Angeles accommodates a further 71 staff who are located close to our major customers and provide a 
range of value-added client services.   
Sales and Marketing 
Due to the niche nature of our video-based offerings we are able to be highly targeted in our sales efforts, identifying 
first the organisations that we believe will gain the biggest benefits from the use of our software, and then the key 
decision makers within those businesses.  Our focus to date has been primarily in the filmed entertainment market 
where we aim to license software and provide related value-added services directly to brand owners. 
 
In contrast, our proposition for automated repurposing of digital imagery has a much broader appeal.  Since our 
entertainment customers create global marketing campaigns for their movies and TV programs, our initial commercial 
efforts have been within this market.  Over the course of the last year we have deployed these solutions for three major 
customer groups and now have several hundred users working on product packaging and marketing campaigns at 
locations around the world. 
 
We believe there is significant potential for our proposition outside the entertainment industry and have begun our 
search for strategic partners with whom we can work closely to secure new business in other markets.  We recently 
announced a relationship with Multi Packaging Solutions Inc., a US print-based packaging solutions company with 
customers in healthcare, media, cosmetics and value added consumer markets.  We are excited to be working closely 
with MPS over the coming months to secure new sales in the pharmaceuticals market, providing ZOO with significant 
growth potential. 
Products 
During the course of the year we have continued to broaden our product proposition by introducing the first component 
of our internet accessible Media Collaboration Platform – the Translation Management System (TMS).  This is a 
workflow automation solution that enables multiple operators around the world to collaborate efficiently in the design  ZOO DIGITAL GROUP PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
 
 
- 8 - 
 
 
25/06/2010/16:22:35 
and delivery of internationalised creative content.  Further components of the Media Collaboration Platform are currently 
under development. 
 
The TMS integrates with our range of desktop productivity applications which we have enhanced further, and also with 
a number of new tools that we released during the year.  These combinations of software are enabling significant 
savings of time and cost – one of our customers has been able to reduce the time taken to produce complex marketing 
campaigns by half through the use of the TMS in conjunction with our Media Adaptation Tool. 
 
Our revenues are based on throughput – products are priced according to usage, either as a Software-as-a-Service 
subscription or on a pay-per-use basis.  This gives us solid recurring revenues whilst also aligning our interests with 
those of our customers – we are motivated to make our products more powerful and easier to use which encourages 
customers to use them more widely, so increasing our revenues. 
 
We have secured further UK government grant funding to support our R&D efforts, this time in the form of a 
collaborative project supported by the Technology Strategy Board entitled “Commercialising Motion Picture Archives”.  
We will be working on new technologies in association with UK rights holders and production services companies that 
we expect will lead to new video-related products in the future. 
 
We launched a new toolset for the preparation of products on Blu-ray Disc and announced that a first major film studio 
has adopted this for creating international product releases.  We believe that Blu-ray Disc represents a significant area 
of new revenue for ZOO and this new toolset gives us a unique position in a growth market that we intend to exploit. 
 
The first of our workflow automation tools reached a milestone this year – the Menu Regionalisation Tool is used to 
create regionalised content for home entertainment products and in May we announced that it had been used to create 
more than 100,000 menus.  Like all our products, this tool provides an automated solution that enables significant 
savings of time and cost.  We have a number of further such automation products in the pipeline and continue to be 
proactive in protecting our intellectual property through patents wherever possible; we have more than 20 patents 
granted. 
 
Our product suite continues to deliver clear competitive advantages and significant barriers to entry, enabling a 
differentiated proposition that addresses our customers’ needs to reduce time and cost. 
Services 
Our customers often complement us on how easy we are to do business with.  We set the highest standard for 
customer relationships and our Los Angeles client-facing team consistently delivers on our customer expectations.  The 
services we offer are closely linked to our product offerings, including implementation and production support, and we 
have introduced new services in the course of the year to reflect the expanding scope of our software portfolio.  
Providing these value-added services is our key strategy to help customers transition smoothly from their traditional 
vendors and move to the progressive and scalable approach we bring. 
 
As we have built our reputation and earned the trust of our customers, we have been able in some cases to use 
services as a way to become involved in new areas of activity. Through first hand experience we build up knowhow that 
we can then use to design and build new automation tools.  These tools provide us with differentiation and the means to 
pass on cost savings to our customers. 
Markets 
While our focus to date has been primarily on the filmed entertainment market we are now poised to take our existing 
products into new areas.  The markets that are attractive to us are those that feature global companies producing 
creative content for many formats and languages.  These are often large US companies marketing products and 
services on a worldwide basis, and spending significant sums in repurposing creative content within the products 
themselves, or on packaging and marketing campaigns. 
 
The recent global economic changes have led to companies seeking cost saving opportunities more than ever before.  
Within the filmed entertainment market profit margins are under pressure and we have seen organisation-wide drives to 
cut costs.  Our proposition is therefore ideally placed to address these new customer requirements to make their 
operations more efficient. 
 
We are in the process of identifying partners to help us explore new markets for our existing products.  A first such 
initiative is with HudsonYards, the premedia division of The CAPS Group, a provider of integrated creative, marketing 
and production services for advertising agencies, design firms, publishing companies, and corporations worldwide. 
 
The focus of our direct sales and marketing efforts has been the filmed entertainment market.  Through a new strategic 
partnership with Multi Packaging Solutions Inc. we plan to make inroads into the pharmaceutical industry.  ZOO DIGITAL GROUP PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
 
25/06/2010/16:22:35 
Entertainment 
Our growth has been achieved through a small number of large customers in the entertainment market.  While this may 
seem like a vulnerable position, we believe that it provides a strong platform for further growth since we are usually able 
to expand our business to several divisions of the same organisation.  The major Hollywood studios are quite diverse 
businesses structured as multiple divisions, yet the need to develop, process and deploy creative media is common to 
most of these divisions.  For our largest studio clients we are now working with four separate divisions, each largely 
autonomous and seeking ways to save time and cost. 
 
The proliferation of new consumer formats and platforms for delivery of home video over the past few years has led to a 
challenging economic situation for rights holders since content must now be prepared for multiple delivery formats in 
order to maximise sales.  This leads to a significant increase in costs and time to prepare new products for market, and 
is further compounded by the complexities of delivering regionalised content into many territories.  A growing proportion 
of content budgets will be spent on publishing across multiple devices and platforms and, based on the experience of 
the mobile phone industry, publishing costs could easily rise to 50% of total content budgets (source: Analysys Mason).  
Our proposition perfectly addresses this changing commercial landscape and provides brand owners with a way to 
reduce the costs of content repurposing across multiple platforms, formats and languages. 
 
We were pleased to announce a software licensing agreement with CBS Home Entertainment, responsible for creating 
products across all of the CBS Corporation lines of content including current hits, such as NCIS, Dexter and 90210, and 
classic series from the vast CBS library.  In an initiative to internalise production on selected titles, CBS Home 
Entertainment will use our products to design and produce certain titles in-house at its own facility, rather than 
outsource all of this work to traditional service providers. Our workflow automation systems enable video titles to be 
created quickly and easily without requiring specialist knowledge, and therefore can be used effectively by non-
specialist operators within the studio. 
 
In June 2010 we announced that a second major Hollywood film studio has adopted a solution using our Media 
Collaboration Platform. This allows the studio’s content from a variety of media to be repurposed and reused across 
multiple formats, from printed materials to on-line content and optical discs. We're particularly excited about working 
with another of the major brands in entertainment and providing a very broad solution that spans most of its formats. In 
the past, clients have licensed specific software products, but this client intends to use our Media Collaboration Platform 
in the most comprehensive way across its entire home entertainment business. This is a further validation of ZOO’s 
products and business model. 
 
Everyone is trying to standardise methods of managing content across multiple media and languages. We're at the 
forefront in this area and are now working with some of the biggest names in entertainment to establish these standards 
which we believe will be very widely adopted. 
 
Within the entertainment market we are tapping into areas of budgeted spend in activities currently outsourced to 
traditional service vendors.  We estimate that the total addressable market for our current portfolio of products is several 
hundreds of millions of dollars per year. 
Pharmaceutical 
In June 2010 we announced an exciting new development for ZOO in the form of a strategic partnership with Multi 
Packaging Solutions (MPS), a provider of value-added print-based packaging solutions.  We already share with MPS a 
number of film studio customers and we hope that our partnership will help us to grow our business further in this 
market, but the greatest value we anticipate from this new relationship is the entry it provides to customers in new 
markets.  Together with MPS we have identified the pharmaceutical market as being particularly receptive to our 
proposition for printed media adaptation, having similar characteristics to those we have seen in our entertainment 
market customers. 
 
The number of products introduced into international markets by healthcare companies is substantially greater than 
entertainment products, and therefore the partnership with MPS provides an exciting opportunity for us to scale the 
ZOO business by taking our existing products into clients of MPS.  We look forward to updating the market with our 
progress in due course. 
Strategy 
We have identified that there are many areas where creative media is developed by large corporations for international 
delivery involving work being outsourced to service vendors.  In many cases this work, while often highly complex, can 
be performed in a largely systematic fashion.  Our workflow automation software displaces manual labour, thereby 
delivering the potential for significant savings of time and cost when this software is licensed directly to the brand 
owners. 
 
Our licensing model is based on software utilisation and is levied as a combination of Software-as-a-Service 
subscription fees and usage fees, giving recurring and highly scalable revenues. 
  ZOO DIGITAL GROUP PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2010 
 
 
- 10 - 
 
 
25/06/2010/16:22:35 
We develop and nurture open, transparent relationships with our clients and deliver to them first class customer service.  
This builds trust and fosters close collaborative working relationships that help us to uncover new areas of potential. 
 
Our competitors are usually traditional vendors providing labour-based services who tend to be inflexible and resistant 
to change.  Consequently we have a strong competitive advantage against them and our growth to date has been 
largely due to winning business from these companies. 
People 
 
Our current and future success is made possible only through our excellent people who continue to contribute to the 
business at the highest level.  Our product development team innovates relentlessly and delights our customers with 
high quality products, and our services and client-facing people succeed in taking our customer relationships to new 
heights.  On behalf of the Board I would like to extend my appreciation to all ZOO staff for their positive outlook and 
commitment to the business. 
Outlook 
I believe that ZOO is poised for an exciting future and I am confident that we will deliver further profitable growth from 
our current customers, the entertainment market and in new areas of activity.  The significant growth we have delivered 
to date has been achieved from a small customer base but the scalability of the business means that we can add new 
customers without significantly increasing headcount or cost base. 
 
We have made great strides in the development of our media platform in the past year and are now poised to scale the 
business through a wider rollout to new customers, with growth arising from licensing existing products in new markets 
and new products in existing markets, and delivering value-added services. 
 
We will continue to focus on major film studios and other global players in the entertainment market and are very 
enthusiastic about the new market openings that our strategic partnership with MPS brings.  
 
Stuart A Green 
CEO 
