 ZOO Digital Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.zoodigital.com
Our Business
02
20502.04 19/08/2011 Proof 6
Group at a Glance
By centralising editorial and approval processes via secure 
web-based platforms, ZOO’s proprietary patented software 
helps customers to increase their speed of production, 
reduce costs and protect their brand integrity. ZOO’s services 
enable quicker and more cost effective processes across a 
wide range of applications and formats, including packaging, 
printed materials, DVD, Blu-ray Disc, video on demand, 
electronic sell-through (EST), broadcast, music and electronic 
books. 
The Group’s largest customers include major Hollywood 
studios, for which the production, marketing and distribution 
of titles in numerous formats across many geographies and 
languages has previously been a lengthy, costly and largely 
manual process. Increasingly the Group’s software is benefiting 
a variety of companies across sectors where the development 
of media products, printing, packaging and marketing involves 
complex processes in multiple countries and languages, 
particularly where brand integrity is of core importance.
The Industries We Serve
Following an initial period of exclusively targeting the entertainment industry with solutions for video content, our product 
set has since been expanded to address a much wider scope of creative media types and requirements. We are now building 
our customer base in a number of diverse industries as described on the following page. In each case, depending on the 
needs of the customer, we either license our technology or provide an outsourced service to customers with our operators 
utilising our software. Either way the customer will reap the benefits of our wealth of experience and dramatically reduce 
their production costs, meaning that those previously uneconomic products become viable and can now be introduced into 
product streams.
One Stop to Global
ZOO offers comprehensive solutions for global 
companies like film and television studios, music 
producers, book and games publishers and 
corporate clients who produce creative media 
for global distribution.
ZOO Digital Group plc provides software and related services that 
support the authoring, re-purposing and distribution of creative media. 
ZOO’s products form an integrated suite of web-based and desktop 
applications for audio/visual content and printed materials, adapting 
these media for different languages, formats and delivery mechanisms.
20502-04ZOODIGIT FRONT.indd   2 19/08/2011   17:17:29 Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials
ZOO Digital Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
www.zoodigital.com
Our Business
03
20502.04 19/08/2011 Proof 6
Home Entertainment
The home entertainment industry is going through a period of significant change. Consumers have come to expect to have choice in the way in which 
they watch movies and other video materials — in the living room, on the personal computer and on the move. The DVD format is in decline as consumers 
scale back the building of their personal collections, while the latest packaged media format — Blu-ray Disc — and a range of Electronic Sell Through (EST) 
platforms such as iTunes are taking off. This industry transition causes all studios to examine costs very carefully and find ways of doing more for less.
We help our customers cut outsourcing costs. We offer something different from the traditional service provided by other vendors; our tools 
automate the costly repetitive tasks involved in production. These tools remove the need for expensive and error-prone manual production resulting in 
fully compliant output that requires significantly less quality control.
We help our customers to decrease their time to market. We have been at the sharp end of the entertainment industry’s demand for ‘day-and-
date’ releases for the past few years and have developed tools and services to help our customers co-ordinate their workflows, speed up localization and 
drastically cut the time taken to create products — whether they are EST, DVD or Blu-ray – as well as the associated promotional material.
Our products manage complexity for our customers. Creation of home entertainment products is complex work — there are many parties whose 
work must be co-ordinated; everyone is under time pressure; there is a high reliance on human labour; it is easy to make mistakes; every aspect of these 
products must be checked and verified; the cost of ensuring that products meet the stringent quality expectations of modern consumers is high. Our 
technology manages complex workflows to bring structure and enforce adherence to standards – we can achieve high quality results very cost effectively.
Video games
When video games are distributed around the world, having a fast, efficient method for producing and managing localized versions of manuals, packaging 
and marketing material is a must. In this industry product packaging often requires text in multiple languages to be integrated into a single layout. This is a 
challenging design requirement with a correspondingly onerous approvals process.
Our software manages complex approvals workflows. For any single territory, multiple approvers are typically required to ensure that all aspects of the 
artwork fulfil the needs of the business. These include legal, corporate branding, product marketing, regulatory and other requirements. The integration 
of multiple languages brings an added level of complexity to the process. Our collaboration software enables these complex workflows to be managed 
efficiently, reducing time-to-market.
Our software creates print-ready artwork. The output from our systems is data files that can be delivered directly to a printer and streamlining the pre-
media process. 
Publishing
There is a seismic shift taking place in the publishing industry as businesses seek to exploit the rapidly expanding eBook market. While the conversion of a 
novel for electronic sale is a relatively straightforward process, the production of rich media genres, such as picture books, comics, graphic novels, recipe 
books, travel guides and encyclopaedias is a different matter altogether.
We automate the preparation of media-rich eBooks. Working with us, traditional publishers are able to adapt existing titles for sale electronically at a 
lower cost and more quickly than by partnering with traditional service vendors. 
We can streamline the translation of books into other languages. Although the eBook market is currently established in the US and UK, it is expected 
that other countries will follow suit and when they do we are well placed to assist in the management of workflows for localisation.
We support all popular eReader platforms. We take a platform agnostic position – by working with us book publishers are assured that their titles can be 
produced through our automated process for all required eReader devices, including the iPad, Kindle, Nook and Sony Reader.
Music
iTunes LP offers a unique and interactive experience with Apple’s iTunes platform. A consumer who purchases an album with iTunes LP 
receives the songs from the album, plus special features such as lyrics, photos, videos, credits, and more.
The added value provided by these bonus materials should make titles more attractive for purchase, and provide an incentive for 
publishers to package their products using the iTunes LP format. But this is a complex and costly process.
Our software can create iTunes LP packages quickly and easily. We are able to repurpose designs and files created previously for 
other platforms to enable efficient production of titles.
We enable music publishers to create products in-house. We have developed software so that these complex titles can be created without requiring 
technical specialists. The result is an easy to use product that can be used to create engaging, content-rich LPs using the publisher’s internal staff and 
reducing costs. 
Our software manages localisation. Adapting digital music products so that they may be published in other languages is a painless process using our 
software, enabling international product versions to be created quickly and easily.
20502-04ZOODIGIT FRONT.indd   3 19/08/2011   17:17:35
