 Our Financials Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
ZOO Digital Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
www.zoodigital.com
11
Chairman’s Statement
“We have continued to deliver profitability at the EBITDA level, 
a result of management’s timely action in response to changing 
market conditions”
The past year has been a difficult one for 
the business with continuing changes in 
the home entertainment market causing 
challenges for our largest customers. 
Despite these challenges, we have 
continued to deliver profitability at the 
EBITDA level, a result of management’s 
timely action in response to changing 
market conditions. A number of 
restructuring initiatives in the year have 
enabled the group to realign its cost 
base and, more importantly, accelerate 
its licensing of more stable and scalable 
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) propositions 
which build on our core competency in 
workflow management and productivity 
technology for creative industries.
Revenues for the full year to 31 March 
2013 were $10.4 million (2012: $11.2 
million) with an adjusted* profit before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
of $0.7 million (2012: $0.5 million). The 
cash balance at year end was $1.0 million 
(2012: $1.2 million).
The group’s only indebtedness remains a 
convertible loan note of $2.7m (£1.77m).
This loan note is due to mature on 31 
October 2013.  The board is in advanced 
stages of discussion with the major loan 
note holders regarding an extension to the 
term of this loan.  The board are confident, 
given that the major loan note holders are 
also major equity holders, that amended 
terms will be agreed prior to the maturity 
of the current term.  
As a result of our efforts to diversify 
the core product offering, we have 
successfully broadened our addressable 
market and have seen early take-up in 
new product areas and with a broader 
customer base. We are encouraged by 
the positive response from customers and 
with our pipeline of opportunities. As such 
we look forward to the year ahead with 
cautious optimism.
 cautious optimism.
Roger D Jeynes
Chairman
	 Roger D Jeynes 
Chairman
“We have successfully 
broadened our 
addressable market 
and have seen early 
take-up in new product 
areas and with a 
broader customer 
base”
* Adjusted profit is stated before the charge for
  share based payments.
