 ZOO Digital Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
www.zoodigital.com
Our Performance
12
Operational review
As highlighted at the time of the interims, 
our primary market of home entertainment 
continues to be in transition, most notably 
with a slowdown in the production of 
DVD and Blu-ray titles. In response, we 
successfully completed a number of 
restructuring initiatives in the period to 
re-align the cost base of the group with 
current operations and the associated 
revenue pipeline. Additionally, we 
expanded and enhanced our propositions 
to address opportunities in adjacent, 
platform agnostic markets and we are 
pleased with the early successes and 
momentum achieved.
Product development  
ZOO’s focus on product development has 
concentrated on three main areas:
ZOOcore
We continue to roll out our recently 
launched Cloud-based platform, 
ZOOcore – a new generation workflow 
and collaboration platform for creative 
and production businesses. The product, 
based on our many years of experience 
in workflow management, was developed 
in-house and is deployed using Cloud 
infrastructure. The result is a solution that 
is truly flexible in terms of delivery and 
scale, and can be deployed more quickly 
and widely than before.
Using ZOOcore we are able to deliver 
solutions that can address the individual 
workflow needs of customers across all 
sizes and a range of creative business 
categories. Not only can we deliver an 
off-the-shelf, pre-configured management 
solution for smaller workgroups, but 
also meet the needs of customers 
requiring tailor-made workflow solutions 
that cater for their unique processes. 
Both approaches enable a shorter time 
to market for the customer and at a 
fraction of the cost of bespoke software 
installations. 
We are pleased with the early positive 
feedback, particularly with the application 
of ZOOcore in business areas outside 
of our traditional home entertainment 
market. We have seen steady growth 
in the number of clients using ZOOcore 
and several clients that have signed up 
are expanding their workflows and user 
numbers covered by their ZOOcore 
systems.
ZOOsubs
ZOOsubs is the group’s proprietary 
Cloud-based subtitle production and 
management system. Since its inception, 
following customer demand, we have 
continued to enhance the ZOOsubs 
platform through the addition of several 
new features, including those to streamline 
the work of operators in the creation and 
translation of the subtitles themselves. 
ZOOsubs therefore now manages the 
entire process for the creation of subtitles 
and their use in a variety of geographies 
and across numerous delivery platforms. 
Through the use of automation and 
workflow management, ZOOsubs is a 
much more cost efficient process than 
traditional methods and provides greater 
flexibility for clients. 
Chief Executive’s Statement
“The investment that has been made in recent years has resulted 
in a very relevant suite of products and services that are highly 
scalable and can be delivered as off-the-shelf or tailor made 
solutions”
	 Dr Stuart A Green 
Chief Executive Our Financials Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
ZOO Digital Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
www.zoodigital.com
13
“Through the use of automation and workflow management, 
ZOOsubs is a much more cost efficient process than traditional 
methods and provides greater flexibility for clients”
The ZOOsubs platform and service have 
attracted a great level of interest following 
initial testing with customers across 
various industry sectors.  The Board 
believes that the scope for ZOOsubs is 
greater than first envisaged and provides 
an attractively priced solution which 
enables clients to control the quality and 
ownership of subtitling in a way previously 
unavailable in the market.  
We are delighted that ZOOsubs has 
already begun to be used within two of 
the six major film studios and agreements 
with a third are expected to be formalised 
shortly.  Initial feedback from other 
potential clients is also promising. A key 
area of interest for our clients has been 
in preparing digital packages for iTunes 
which must be supplied with multiple 
subtitle streams.  ZOOsubs is being used 
to repurpose existing subtitle data and to 
create translations for new languages.
We believe this has the potential to be an 
area of significant growth this year.
ZOOpubs
ZOOpubs is a suite of tools to support 
the preparation of digital book products, 
including an innovative solution for 
publishers to efficiently and cost 
effectively repurpose traditional hard copy 
books for the eBook market. The strength 
of ZOO’s solution is in its ability to maintain 
formatting qualities and standards of 
physical production, which is particularly 
relevant where pictures or illustrations 
accompany text in a book.
The solution continues to gain traction and 
during the period, it has been adopted 
by a number of publishers both large and 
small.  ZOO chaired a panel session at 
the International Digital Publishing Forum 
in May 2013 on the topic of “In-Sourcing 
vs. Outsourcing of eBook Conversion and 
Production” which we know to be an area 
of interest for many publishers.
ZOOpubs is widely recognised as the 
best solution in the market for automated 
conversion of fixed layout eBooks and 
with several clients signed up, we are well 
positioned once market demand grows.
Staff
On behalf of the board I would like to 
thank all of our staff for their continued 
contribution and hard work over the past 
year. 
Outlook
The Board believes that through timely 
intervention and reaction to market 
dynamics it has been able to restructure 
the group’s cost base and align it with 
current demand levels.
The investment that has been made 
in recent years has resulted in a very 
relevant suite of products and services 
that are highly scalable and can be 
delivered as off-the-shelf or tailor made 
solutions. Importantly, we are also starting 
to see greater diversity in our customer 
base, making us less dependent on any 
single client, a trend which we would 
expect to continue.
While we are very conscious that the 
markets in which we operate remain 
hard to predict, we are confident that our 
diversified suite has put us in a much 
stronger position and opened up a range 
of new opportunities. We enter the new 
year with confidence but remain alert to 
general market conditions.
Dr Stuart A Green
Chief Executive Officer
