 Chief e xe Cutive’s 
review Ian King, Chief Executive
Overview 
Overall, the Group delivered a solid 
performance in 2013, against the background 
of reduced government spending and tough 
market conditions. A proactive focus on costs 
and enhanced competitiveness allowed us to 
protect our margins across the majority of the 
business and we secured further contract wins 
in the US, Saudi Arabia and internationally. 
Our results also benefited from the satisfactory 
conclusion of price escalation negotiations 
with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, relating to 
an existing contract to supply Typhoon aircraft. 
We have continued to invest in research and 
technology and to develop business in 
international markets, and our strong order 
backlog and robust balance sheet as we enter 
2014 are testament to our business health. 
US
In the US, budget uncertainties continued to 
impact government spending and procurement 
decisions throughout 2013. Sequestration 
measures resulting from the 2011 Budget 
Control Act either reduced or delayed many 
US activities. The Sequestration measures 
were targeting savings of approximately 
$450bn (£272bn) from US defence budgets 
over a ten-year period, equivalent to an 
approximately 10% overall reduction. As 
certain areas of spending were protected from 
these reductions, such as military personnel 
accounts, the budgets funding much of the 
US defence industrial base are likely to be 
disproportionately impacted.
In addition to the Sequestration measures, in 
October, the political disagreements over the 
terms of a Continuing Resolution to cover the 
remainder of the 2013 fiscal year resulted in 
a partial US government shutdown. Following 
the brief shutdown, a Continuing Resolution 
was passed to fund the government until 
15 January 2014. Whilst some disruption 
resulted from the shutdown, the impact to 
the Group’s overall financial performance 
was not material.
In December, a bipartisan budget proposal 
for a two-year federal budget agreement was 
approved by Congress and signed into law. 
The resulting spending bill was approved in 
January 2014, far earlier in the fiscal cycle 
than in previous years, and whilst this 
legislation does not eliminate the Sequester 
completely, it does ease the significant and 
indiscriminate cuts that were expected in 
2014 and 2015. 
Given this environment, we based our 
planning assumptions on a progressive 
reduction in our US defence and security 
businesses of approximately 15% for 2013 
and 2014. The recent budget developments 
return some clarity to near-term US 
government spending, although pressures to 
reduce spending and address the US deficit 
are expected to continue.
STRATEGIC REPORT
20 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013 “ BAE Sy St Em S h AS Built 
Strong mom Entum in 
d Eliv Ering on it S Str At Egy.”
Nonetheless, there does seem to be clear 
support for some key programmes, including 
the F-35 Lightning II in which BAE Systems 
has a significant participation.
Some of the Group’s US activities are not 
directly exposed to US government budgets. 
Our commercial electronics business 
continues to grow and we anticipate a rising 
contribution from US Foreign Military Sales. 
In December, the Republic of Korea finalised 
an agreement with the US government for 
BAE Systems to perform upgrades and 
systems integration for its fleet of more 
than 130 F-16 aircraft. This business 
opportunity, potentially worth approximately 
$1.3bn (£0.8bn), is not yet included in our 
order backlog.
The Group also continues to be successful 
in winning competitive new business. In 
March, BAE Systems was awarded a five-year 
contract for the operation and management 
of the Holston Army Ammunition Plant in the 
US. In August, the Group was awarded an 
eight-year contract to maintain the readiness 
of Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic 
missiles in the US. In October, the Group 
received a US Army contract for Low-Rate 
Initial Production on the Paladin Integrated 
Management programme, a tracked artillery 
system. In December, the US Navy awarded 
BAE Systems a three-year, $171m (£103m) 
contract to continue providing engineering 
and integration support to Trident II D-5 
submarine-launched ballistic missiles. 
In Land & Armaments, we have refocused 
the business on core markets and our 
capabilities in combat vehicles, amphibious 
vehicles, artillery systems and naval surface 
fires. We have also rationalised the land 
facilities more broadly, reducing 51 sites to 15 
centres. Against a background of substantially 
reduced demand, we are working to protect 
key industrial capabilities and margins.
Performance issues recently emerged in the 
multi-year Radford Army Ammunition Plant 
support contract. Customer volume reductions 
require this contract to be restructured and 
we aim to renegotiate an agreement on this 
key military capability.
UK
Notwithstanding the continued pressure on 
many areas of government spend in the UK, 
our business is in good shape and the outlook 
remains stable. Much of the Group’s UK 
business is concentrated on a small number 
of large programmes where multi-year 
contracts provide good visibility, as evidenced 
by the large UK order backlog. 
In the air sector, the first Tranche 3 Typhoon 
has flown and we have recently been able to 
reveal previously classified footage of the 
successful flight trials of the Taranis unmanned 
aerial vehicle. Deliveries of Typhoon continued 
to European partner nations.
In the maritime sector, in November, 
BAE Systems reached agreement with the 
UK government on measures to enable the 
implementation of a restructuring of its UK 
naval ships business. The measures included 
a restructuring of the Queen Elizabeth Class 
aircraft carrier contract to accommodate 
changes to the programme and to reflect its 
increased maturity. In addition, a programme 
to build three Offshore Patrol Vessels for the 
Royal Navy was announced. Consultation with 
trade union and employee representatives 
commenced regarding the rationalisation of 
the naval ships business to address 
anticipated reduced workload levels beyond 
the current high volume of activity on the 
aircraft carrier programme. Contracts to enact 
this overall agreement are forecast to be 
finalised in 2014.
Good progress has been made in defining the 
Type 26 frigate programme to replace Type 23 
vessels, with over 600 employees now working 
on the contract.
Submarines activity continues to progress on 
the Astute Class programme and workload is 
increasing on the Successor programme in 
preparation for a possible replacement of the 
Vanguard Class boats. 
In September 2014, Scotland will hold an 
independence referendum. The decision on 
independence from the UK is a matter for the 
people of Scotland. However, BAE Systems 
has significant interests and employees in 
Scotland, and it is clear that continued union 
offers greater certainty and stability for our 
business. In the event that Scotland voted to 
become independent, we would need to 
discuss the way forward with the Ministry of 
Defence and UK government, and work with 
them to deliver the best solution in those 
circumstances.
Our Applied Intelligence business (formerly 
BAE Systems Detica), which is well-positioned 
in the fast-growing commercial cyber security 
sector, has substantially increased its order 
backlog.
In February 2013, Applied Intelligence and 
Vodafone agreed the formation of a five-year 
partnership to provide businesses with a 
range of advanced mobile communications 
security products and services, initially 
focused on smartphones and tablets.
Applied Intelligence signed, in September, 
a framework contract with the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) to deliver service 
management integration services across the 
FCO’s global IT estate.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE Sy St Em S ANNUAL REPORT 2013 21 Non-UK/US order intake
1
 (£bn)
2010 4.3
2011 4.8
2012 11.2
2013 9.3
Non-UK/US order intake
1
 (% of total)
2010 26
2011 29
2012 50
2013 48
The significant flow of new contract awards 
with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia continued 
through 2013. Contracts valued at 
approximately £6.4bn have been signed in 
the year, including a five-year, £1.8bn 
follow-on support contract on the Salam 
Typhoon programme and a further £1.5bn 
contract for Tornado aircraft upgrades and 
weapons under the Saudi British Defence 
Co-operation programme. 
In December, the Swedish government 
exercised its option to buy 102 more BvS10 
all-terrain vehicles in an order worth 
approximately $120m (£72m). In December, 
FnSS, BAE Systems’ Turkish joint venture, 
received a $360m (£217m) contract from 
the land forces of a Middle Eastern country 
for the upgrade of M113 tracked armoured 
personnel carriers.
The Group was disappointed that the 
Canadian government decided to cancel its 
Close Combat Vehicle programme. However, 
we continue to pursue opportunities for 
combat vehicles with the Swedish CV90 
tracked infantry fighting vehicle forming the 
basis for a current bid in Denmark. In addition, 
BAE Systems is working with polish Defence 
Holdings to address substantial replacement 
vehicle requirements expected to emerge later 
this decade in poland. 
BAE Systems continues to develop 
opportunities for Bradley fighting vehicles 
in Saudi Arabia and, more recently, another 
emerging requirement in the region.
The success in South Korea on the F-16 
upgrade programme is a significant 
competitive win.
Peter Leahy (Project manager, Air Warfare Destroyer) – 
weathering the storm
To overcome the lack of shipbuilding skills in Williamstown, Australia, 
peter l eahy set about re-skilling the team on the latest methods, as 
well as importing skills from BAE Systems in the UK. This single-minded 
focus to work efficiently and to deliver high-quality results paid off with 
at least a 30% reduction in costs. This impressive turnaround also 
helped to secure future work for the shipyard.
John Emmons (Senior Lead Full motion Video Analyst) 
– making more moments
With BAE Systems’ activity-based intelligence, a computer-assisted 
problem solving methodology, John Emmons and his team in the US 
are able to streamline the process of digging through vast amounts 
of heavily layered data to reveal patterns and anomalies, thought of as 
intelligence treasures by intelligence analysts studying the behaviour 
of potential threats. Our activity-based intelligence technology helps 
to make big data small.
International
Building on the strong international order 
intake performance in 2012, a further £9.3bn 
of non-UK/US order intake
1
 was achieved in 
the year.
While the opportunity was not included in our 
business plans, we were disappointed that 
the government of the United Arab Emirates 
(UAE) elected not to proceed with proposals 
regarding a range of defence and security 
capabilities including the potential supply of 
Typhoon aircraft. nonetheless, the aircraft 
fully met the customer’s exacting requirements 
and BAE Systems stands ready to work with 
the UAE to address any future requirements. 
We continue to pursue a number of 
opportunities in international markets. 
Building on the successful sale of Typhoon 
and Hawk aircraft in Saudi Arabia and Oman, 
a number of military aircraft-related 
opportunities have been identified. 
Aircraft deliveries on the Salam Typhoon 
programme to Saudi Arabia re-commenced 
in April.
In February 2014, the governments of the 
UK and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia agreed 
price escalation terms relating to the Typhoon 
aircraft under the Salam programme and 
these have been reflected in contractual 
arrangements between the UK government 
and BAE Systems. The terms of the agreement 
are broadly consistent with the Group’s prior 
trading outlook for 2013. Cash settlement 
is expected to follow this pricing agreement, 
commencing in the early part of 2014. The 
Group believes this to be an equitable outcome 
for all parties and is pleased to conclude this 
negotiation which builds on the long-standing 
relationship with this much-valued customer.
1 Including equity accounted investments.
22 BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013
St RAt EGIC REPORt CHIEF EXECUt IVE’S REVIEW Balance sheet and capital allocation
The Group’s balance sheet continues to be 
managed conservatively in line with our policy 
to retain an investment grade credit rating and 
to ensure operating flexibility.
Consistent with this approach, the Group 
expects to continue to meet its pension 
obligations, pursue organic investment 
opportunities, pay dividends in line with its 
policy of long-term sustainable cover of 
around two times underlying earnings and 
to make accelerated returns of capital to 
shareholders when the balance sheet allows. 
Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions 
will be considered where market conditions 
are right and where they deliver on the 
Group’s strategy.
In February 2013, the Group initiated a 
share repurchase programme of up to 
£1bn over three years. Implementation of 
the programme has been influenced by the 
timing of a satisfactory resolution of the 
Salam Typhoon price escalation negotiations. 
As at 19 February 2014, BAE Systems had 
purchased 65 million shares for approximately 
£271m under the programme. 
Consistent with previous share buybacks, 
the Group has agreed with the trustees of 
its UK pension schemes to pay £340m of 
cash contributions into the schemes over the 
three-year period of a full implementation of 
the share repurchase programme. 
Inspired Work
Our employees have a key role to play in the 
success of our business. Their contribution 
is never more important than when the 
Group is facing significant market pressures. 
BAE Systems’ people have continued to rise to 
the challenge, demonstrating their commitment 
to meeting the needs of customers with 
increasingly more cost-effective and innovative 
solutions. There are many examples of our 
people’s inspired work highlighted across 
this publication. 
Responsible conduct
The way the Group undergoes its business 
is equally as important as the delivery of 
the output and great emphasis continues to 
be placed on business conduct throughout 
the Group. 
The safety of our employees and those using 
our products is critical to our business, a key 
priority and a fundamental responsibility for 
the Group. Regrettably, there were two 
work-related employee fatalities in 2013. 
Each accident is thoroughly investigated and 
lessons learnt are applied across the Group. 
We continue to drive safety improvements 
and achieved a 17% reduction in the 
Recordable Accident Rate, which represents 
the sixth consecutive year of improvement.
Board and management
Sir Richard Olver stepped down as Chairman 
of the Group in February 2014 and has been 
succeeded by Sir Roger Carr. Sir Richard has 
been a tremendous supporter of our Company 
and our industry over the last decade and has 
led wide-ranging cultural and governance 
changes within the Company. He leaves with 
our best wishes for the future.
I am delighted to welcome Sir Roger Carr 
as Chairman. Sir Roger has two decades of 
Board-level experience leading international 
businesses and most recently was Chairman 
of Centrica plc and president of the 
Confederation of British Industry, the UK’s 
main business lobbying group. He is also 
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director of the Court of the Bank of England 
and a member of the UK prime Minister’s 
Business Advisory Group.
Jerry DeMuro took up his role as president and 
Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 
from 1 February 2014. Jerry joins the Group 
from General Dynamics and succeeded 
l inda Hudson, who announced her intention to 
retire from the Company in August. He is also 
an executive director of BAE Systems plc and a 
member of BAE Systems’ Executive Committee.
On 5 February 2014, Tom Arseneault, formerly 
Executive Vice president, product Sectors, 
was appointed as Chief Operating Officer for 
BAE Systems, Inc. and Dave Herr, formerly 
Executive Vice president, Service Sectors, for 
BAE Systems, Inc. and Executive Committee 
member, will retire from the Group on 
31 March 2014.
In January 2014, Claire Divver joined the Group 
from Xstrata plc as Group Communications 
Director and a member of the Executive 
Committee. She replaced Charlotte l ambkin 
who left the Group in September.
Summary and outlook
Budget pressures in some of the Group’s 
larger markets are expected to prevail but 
BAE Systems has a broad-based portfolio. 
Good progress has been made to grow the 
order backlog, providing a solid basis for 
growth over the medium term. The Group’s 
continued focus on cost and targeted 
investment aims to enhance competitiveness 
and affordability for the benefit of customers 
and sustain attractive returns for shareholders.
 
 
 
 
Ian King, Chief Executive
Saeed AlGhamdi (Quality manager, tornado) – from 
apprentice to expert
Saeed AlGhamdi started as an apprentice 13 years ago and is now 
part of a quality control taskforce servicing and maintaining Tornado 
aircraft in Saudi Arabia. His proudest moment has been to re-design 
part of Tornado’s rudder, preventing damage to the part in servicing, 
resulting in cost and time savings which earned him a BAE Systems 
Chairman’s Award. 
Joe murphy mBE (Welding 
trainer) – the Queen’s welder
Working for the past 40 years 
in Barrow-in-Furness, UK, Joe has 
helped to produce highly complex 
submarines for the Royal navy. 
Battling temperatures of up to 
120 degrees in a confined space 
is an art form. Joe Murphy MBE 
passes on his skills, work ethic 
and tenacity to the next generation 
of welders being trained in the 
Joe Murphy Welding Centre 
of Excellence.
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SySt EmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013 23
