 8
Zytronic plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 www.zytronic.co.uk
Trading results
2008 sales
As reported in the Chairman’s statement, 
the Group’s sales for 2008 were £14.7m, 
(2007: 	 £11.4m), 	 reflecting 	 an 	 increase 	
of 29% over the previous year. 79% of sales 
were	exports	reflecting	the	increasing	global	
efforts of our sales team, distributors and 
representatives. The increase in the sales 
performance	has	been	significantly	driven	
by the sales of our projected capacitive 
technology (“pCT™”) touch sensor products 
as we continue to roll them out globally and 
increase the application appeal through 
the uptake of the Zypos product line. 
Key features in the growth of the Group 
are set out below. 
Continued growth of touch sensor sales 
The total growth in the Group’s touch 
product sales compared with 2007 
was 47% (2008: £8.5m, 2007: £5.8m). 
These products accounted for 58% of 
the total Group sales, compared with 
51% in 2007. 
The sales value of our ultra robust 
ZyToUCH touch sensor product grew 
by 34% (2008: £5.9m, 2007: £4.4m). 
The increased growth was attributable 
to a return of more normal, and growing 
sales levels throughout 2008 to our ATM 
customers, as discussed overleaf, and 
by	n e w 	 p r o j e c t 	 o p p o r t u n i t i e s 	 i n 	 e x t e r n a l	
self‑service ticket machine deployments.
sales of our Zypos products 
demonstrated good growth at 85% 
(2008:	£2.5m,	2007:	£1.4m),	reflecting	
substantial design and supply wins 
predominantly with gaming and wagering 
terminal manufacturers, plus self‑service 
and information system manufacturers. 
We have continued to see increasing 
geographical sales in our touch sensor 
products,	where	we	have	exported	over	
87% of our total touch sales, of which 
half	were	exports	of	ZYTOUCH	to	our	
ATM customers. The table below shows 
the percentages of 2008 touch sensor 
export	sales	(excluding	those	to	our	
ATM customers), the corresponding 
percentages for 2007 and the relative 
percentage growth rates achieved: 
  2007 2008  
 Non‑ATM Non-ATM  
 touch touch  
 sensor sensor 2008  
 sales sales Growth 
E M E A 	 ( e x c l . 	 U K ) 	 	 56%		 59%  45%
ApAC  15%  23%  110%
Americas 28%  19%  (9)%
The	decline	in	growth	exhibited	in	the	
Americas was due, in the main, to the 
fulfilment 	 of 	 the 	 deployment 	 project 	
f o r 	 t h e 	 N e w 	 Y o r k 	 t a x i 	 c a b 	 c u s t o m e r	
infotainment units.
As mentioned in the research and 
development review in the 2007 results, 
we initiated in 2008 the market introduction 
of a number of plastic‑ based pCT touch 
sensor products, developed for the growing 
interactive shop window advertisement 
markets. We have called these products 
ZyFILM and ZypRoFILM. sales in 2008 
were a modest £52,000, up from £8,000 
in 2007.
Although contributing a small level of 
turnover, these products, coupled with the 
previously released ZysWITCH
®
 product, 
are considered important to ensuring 
that Zytronic maintains its leading global 
position as the total product solution 
provider for all large form factor projected 
capacitive sensing display applications.
The net result of the improved Zypos sales 
and non‑ATM based ZyToUCH sales, plus 
the modest introduction of the other sensor 
variants, contributed to an overall growth in 
sales	of	touch	sensor	products,	excluding	
those to our ATM customers, of 38% over 
that of 2007.
Chief Executive’s review
Summary of Chief Executive’s review
I sales revenues increased 29% to £14.7m
I Continued strong growth of touch sensor sales, increased by 47%
I	 Increased	ge ographical	and 	industrial	diversification
I	 Strong	recov ery	in	A TM	mark ets,	above	2006	peak	levels
I Zypos sales increased by 85%
I Good progress with R&D activities
I New manufacturing facility fully commissioned
Top opposite: An Aeroflex 6413A Base Station 
Test System incorporating a ZYTOUCH sensor.
Bottom opposite: On street public information kiosks 
use the ZYTOUCH sensor for their qualities of external 
ruggedness and clarity, as here in Verhaert Ghent, 
in Belgium. 9
Zytronic plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 www.zytronic.co.uk
The ATM customers’ touch sensor 
and display sales
Having undertaken their planned restructuring 
and/or implemented the use of their Vendor 
Managed Inventory (“VMI”) programmes, 
during 2007, I am pleased to report that 
sales of products into our ATM customers 
returned to more normal operating levels. 
Sales	increased	to	6%	above	the	previous	
peak	achieved	in	FY2006.	
Along with providing actual usage data on 
the	customer ,	an	added	benefit	of	the	VMI	
programmes is the smoothing effects that 
they facilitate in production scheduling as, 
once initiated, replenishment cycling of the 
stocks is matched to the customer’s draw 
down cycles. This therefore alleviates 
the traditional ‘stop/start’ type of supply 
previously 	 experienced.
sales to our customers in the ATM market 
are now mainly concentrated on three 
manufacturing countries being, in order 
of increasing sales value, China, the UsA 
and Hungary, in all of which we have active 
VMI programmes. As the distribution of 
global manufacturing centres increases we 
are now also making sales, albeit presently 
at much lower levels, to facilities in both 
Brazil and India.
sales in 2008 to our ATM customers have 
increased by 43% compared with 2007 
and	by	6%	compared	with	2006.	
Sales of our ZYPOS products 
demonstrated good growth at 85% 
(2008: £2.5m, 2007: £1.4m), reflecting 
substantial design and supply wins 
predominantly with gaming and wagering 
terminal manufacturers, plus self-service 
and information system manufacturers.  10
Zytronic plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 www.zytronic.co.uk
Trading results (continued)
2008 sales (continued)
sales of non‑ATM display products
sales of other non‑ATM display products 
such as RFI/EMI shielding and anti‑vandal 
panels for the emerging large form factor 
digital display markets etc, remained stable 
during 2008 (2008: £1.5m, 2007: £1.5m). 
This relative stability was maintained despite 
the natural conclusion of one customer’s 
project	which	had	contributed	£262,000	
of sales in 2007, and whose volume 
was effectively replaced by sales to other, 
and new, customers.
Research & Development (“R&D”)
Throughout 2008 the R&D team has 
focused increasingly on the development 
of the capabilities of the electronic controllers 
used in our pCT products and has also 
initiated several programmes to evaluate 
new sensing materials.
In particular, two major development 
programmes were initiated during the 
year to improve the control electronics 
associated with pCT touch sensing. 
The 	 first 	 programme 	 was 	 to 	 move, 	
and ultimately improve, the digital signal 
processing capabilities associated 
with the technology towards industry 
standardisation of an ARM
®
 based 
architecture processor. 
The second programme was to look at 
the analogue based componentary and 
circuitry associated with the Zytronic pCT 
sensing system and to develop a single 
application	specific	integrated	circuit	
‘AsIC’ chip as a replacement. 
The combination of both programmes 
is a very powerful tool in the future growth 
of Zytronic pCT sensing products, allowing 
for a substantial footprint reduction of 
the controller card. It also increases the 
probability of supplying sensor and chip 
only solutions to prospective large volume 
customers, enabling them to integrate the 
solution directly into their own products’ 
motherboards, where required.
The R&D team has also initiated several 
programmes to evaluate new sensing 
material for use in the sensor designs to aid 
improvements in manufacturing processing 
and facilitate product improvements. 
All of the above programmes are on‑going 
and will be completed in 2009.
Production
The manufacturing stability provided 
by the VMI programmes, coupled with 
the increasing production, through the 
new manufacturing facility, allowed for 
a consistent monthly manufacturing 
schedule during 2008. subsequently 
the production department was able to 
maintain stable employee numbers, with 
an	average	workforce	of	167	(2007:	153).	
Manufacture of the Zypos product was fully 
transferred from an intermediate production 
facility to the new manufacturing facility in 
the	first	quarter	of	2008	fiscal.	It	was	not	until	
the end of January 2008 that the new facility 
was fully operational with all of the original 
design	specification	equipment	in-situ.
In	addition	to	the	2008	capital	expenditure	
on the new facility, only two other major 
items of plant and equipment were purchased 
during 	 2008. 	 The 	 first 	 was 	 an 	 additional 	
CNC edge grinding machine, introduced 
during December, to meet the increasing 
demand in glass preparation. The second 
was the enhancement/replacement of the 
air conditioning plant for the oldest of 
the cleanroom suites, the work being 
undertaken during August.
Chief Executive’s review
continued
Zytronic’s ZYBRID sensor has enabled Fiscal Systems to 
create an integrated travel centre and convenience store 
for filling-station forecourt applications, tough enough for 
outdoor use in unsupervised areas.
Laminated shielded windows and doors are manufactured 
by Zytronic to stop interference from the flow of radio and 
electromagnetic waves (RFI/EMI). These shielded doors 
are being used in ABB telephone racks. 11
Zytronic plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 www.zytronic.co.uk
Personnel
During the year, the Group maintained a 
consistent	staff	profile.	Three	appointments	
were made during the year to replace leavers. 
The opportunity was taken to improve 
capabilities and the structure of the 
Company to assist future growth. 
We have continued with the development 
of 	 our 	 employees 	 through 	 a 	 mixture 	 of	
on 	 the 	 job 	 training 	 and 	 external 	 courses.	
At the end of september we had over 
2 0 0 	 e m p l o y e e s 	 a n d 	 w e 	 e x p e c t 	 t o 	 s e e	
that number steadily grow in 2009. 
The Directors were pleased to offer our 
employees the opportunity to participate 
in our second sAyE sharesave scheme. 
I was delighted that so many joined, 
d e m o n s t r a t i n g 	 t h e i r 	 c o n fi d e n c e 	 i n 	 t h e	
future development and success of 
the Group’s business. 
I personally, along with the Group’s other 
management, would like to thank all of our 
employees for their good work during 2008 
and for their continuing contribution to the 
success and development of the Group.
Mark Cambridge, B.Sc
Chief Executive
19 December 2008
Throughout 2008 the R&D team has 
focused increasingly on the development 
of the capabilities of the electronic 
controllers used in our PCT products and 
has also initiated several programmes 
to evaluate new sensing materials.
Top: An application at the University of Pittsburgh 
illustrates the flexibility of PCT. By combining a 
ZYTOUCH touch sensor with large convex glass panels 
and rear-projection display technology , the University 
has been able to present a permanent interactive 
exhibition using a series of 8ft diameter kiosks. 
Bottom: One of the features of the Pittsburgh touch sensors 
is a genealogy feature, seen here in use by a visitor.
