 Chairman’s  
letter Sir Roger Carr, Chairman
“ the Board has esta Blished 
a Culture of good 
governan Ce and high 
Business ethi Cs.”
I write as the newly appointed Chairman who 
can take no credit for the Company’s solid 
performance in 2013, but with a deep 
commitment to building on the firm foundation 
left by my predecessor, Sir Richard Olver.
In addition to improved performance, there is 
no doubt that under Sir Richard’s Chairmanship, 
the Board established a culture of good 
governance and high business ethics. These 
have been adopted across the business and 
are respected throughout the industry. The 
management teams I inherit are experienced, 
able and focused on operational excellence 
and the delivery of shareholder value.
In 2013, the Group delivered good growth in 
sales and underlying profit. Strong cash flows 
in prior years facilitated the implementation 
of a three-year share repurchase programme 
of up to £1bn, the continued support of our 
pension obligations and the recommendation 
of a final dividend of 12.1p per share, making 
a total 20.1p per share for the year.
The business model is balanced and robust, 
with deep roots in the US, the Middle East 
and the UK, and strong links to our customers 
in the Asia Pacific region.
The defence budget in the US, the Group’s 
largest market, has been through a period 
of uncertainty, but there are signs that some 
clarity is starting to emerge with the recent 
agreement on a two-year budget.
Over the next 12 months, the Company will 
seek to sustain its order backlog in defence 
and strengthen the position of its cyber 
security business.
In a challenging climate for defence spending, 
the executive will continue to focus on 
disciplined cost management in those 
markets that are contracting and increased 
sales endeavours in those parts of the world 
where new business opportunities are both 
appropriate and available.
In the latter part of the year, management was 
successful in reaching agreement in principle 
with the UK’s Ministry of Defence on measures 
to enable the implementation of a restructuring 
of the UK naval ships business, including 
changes to the Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft 
carrier contract. In addition, agreement was 
reached with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on 
outstanding commercial issues associated 
with the Typhoon order. These agreements 
resolved two uncertainties of the recent past 
and provide a more stable platform on which 
to work with these important customers to 
address their future defence and security 
priorities.
In considering the future potential of the 
business, my initial findings are based on 
five fundamentals:
 – BAE Systems is one of the most important 
companies in the UK and one of the world’s 
greatest defence contractors. It has the 
mix of products and services and breadth 
of markets to grow and prosper as an 
independent organisation;
 – its businesses are led by seasoned, 
talented professionals and populated by 
skilled and enthusiastic employees who 
take great pride in their work;
 – its products are respected across the globe 
for their quality, cutting-edge technology, 
reliability in action and performance;
 – its culture and ethos have been established 
to achieve the highest standards: honesty 
and openness in all business dealings, 
respect for those that work for the 
Company, appreciation for those that trade 
with the Company and recognition and 
reward for those that own the Company; and
 – its Board comprises a diverse mix of 
experienced individuals, chosen for their 
relevant skillset, valued for their 
independent mind-set and collectively 
supporting management when appropriate 
and challenging when necessary.
OVERVIEW
4 BAE Sy St Em S Ann UAl R EPORT 2013 Dividend (pence)
The Board has recommended a nal dividend 
of 12.1p per share making a total of 20.1p per 
share for the year, an increase of 3% over 2012. 
2010 17.5
2009 16.0
2011 18.8
2012 19.5
2013 20.1
20.1P +3%
During my first year as Chairman, it is my 
intention to capitalise on these fundamentals 
by working closely with management, visiting 
our locations, meeting our customers and 
engaging with our shareholders.
Together with colleagues, we will pressure 
test our strategy, hone our competitive edge, 
develop our management team, strengthen all 
our relationships and reinforce the principles 
of ethical business through the organisation. 
I am clear that in a rapidly changing world, 
the road ahead will not be smooth, but I take 
up the new role with a sense of privilege in 
my appointment, respect for the organisation, 
enthusiasm for the task and confidence in 
the future.
Directors
Sir Peter Mason, a non-executive director, 
retired from the Board of BAE Systems plc 
on 8 May. Ian Tyler joined the Board as a 
non-executive director of the Company on 
that date.
In June, Chris Grigg was appointed a 
non-executive director of the Company with 
effect from 1 July.
l ee McIntire, a non-executive director, 
resigned from the Board of BAE Systems plc 
on 20 August. 
I joined the Board as a non-executive director 
of BAE Systems plc and Chairman designate 
on 1 October and succeeded Sir Richard Olver 
as Chairman on 1 February 2014. Sir Richard 
stepped down from the Board on that date. 
On 1 February 2014, l inda Hudson retired 
as President and Chief Executive Officer 
of BAE Systems, Inc. and as an executive 
director of BAE Systems plc. On the same 
date, Jerry DeMuro was appointed as 
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
BAE Systems, Inc. and as an executive director 
of BAE Systems plc. He will also serve on 
BAE Systems’ Executive Committee. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 12.1p per share making a total of 20.1p 
per share for the year, an increase of 3% over 
2012. At this level, the annual dividend is 
covered 2.1 times by underlying earnings 
(2012 2.0 times). Subject to shareholder 
approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, 
the dividend will be paid on 2 June 2014 to 
holders of ordinary shares registered on 
22 April 2014.
Reporting
This Annual Report has been produced in 
compliance with new narrative reporting 
regulations. The principal change being the 
requirement to produce a Strategic Report 
that provides readers with a clear and focused 
explanation of a company’s strategy, business 
model, key risks and performance. To date, 
BAE Systems has set high standards for the 
quality of its narrative reporting and I hope 
that you will find that this report fulfils the 
requirements and intentions of the new 
regulations, and continues to bring clarity 
and transparency to the Group’s activities.
 
 
 
Sir Roger Carr, Chairman 
OVERVIEW
BAE Sy St Em S Ann UAl R EPORT 2013 5 Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold
Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value  through our commitment to Total Performance
Customer Focus  |  Programme Execution  |  Financial Performance  |  Responsible Behaviour
Our Strategy
 Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests 
 Inspire and develop our people to drive our success 
 Drive shareholder value by improving nancial performance and competitive positions across the business
Integrated Business Plans
Improve prot and cash generation Grow our Cyber, Intelligence and Security business
Grow Electronic Systems Drive value  from our Platform and Services positions
Increase our international business 
Strategic Actions
Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company
Group Strate Gic 
framework The Group Strategic Framework illustrates the different elements and 
actions required to deliver sustained growth and achieve our vision to 
be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company.
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE Sy StEmS Annu Al R EpoRT 2013 7
Defence spending The Group is dependent on defence spending. 
 Government customers The Group’s largest customers are governments.
Global market The Group operates in a global market.
Contract award timing The Group is dependent on the timing of award of defence contracts.
Large contracts Certain of the Group’s businesses are dependent on a small number of large contracts. 
Fixed-price contracts The Group has fixed-price contracts. 
Component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers The Group is dependent upon component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers.
Laws and regulations The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Competition The Group’s business is subject to significant competition.
Pension funding The Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its defined benefit pension schemes.
Export controls and other restrictions The Group is subject to export controls and other restrictions.
Acquisitions The anticipated benefits of acquisitions may not be achieved.
Consortia and joint ventures The Group is involved in consortia, joint ventures and equity holdings where it does not have control.
Exchange rates The Group is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates.
Cyber security The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT
Princi Pal r isks 
s UMMar Y
FUr THEr in FOrMaTiOn On Eac H risk can bE FOU nd On Pa GEs 106 TO 111 OF THE dir Ec TOrs ’ r EPOrT
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SyStEmS Annu Al Repo RT 2013 31
Group financial  
performance Peter Lynas, Group Finance Director
Financial highlights
 n Sales 3 increased by 2%
 n Underlying EBITA 4 increased by 3% to £1,925m
 n Underlying earnings 5 per share increased by 9%
 n Order backlog 3,6 maintained, with non-UK/US order intake 3 of £9.3bn
 n Operating business cash inflow 8 of £147m
 n Net debt 9 of £699m
 n Goodwill impairment charge of £865m relating to the US Intelligence & Security  
and Land & Armaments businesses
 n £212m expended in 2013 on the three-year share repurchase programme
 n Total dividend increased by 3% to 20.1p
1 On adoption of the revised International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits. 2 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts). 3 Including share of equity accounted investments. 4 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items. 5  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items (see note 8 to the Group accounts).
 
Business model – page 9
Critical accounting policies Accounting change 
Certain of the Group’s principal accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the revised International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits. This replaces interest cost on gross pension liabilities and expected return on gross pension assets with a finance cost on the net pension deficit calculated using the rate currently used to discount defined benefit pension liabilities and requires certain administrative costs to be included within underlying EBITA 4 . Comparative financial information has been restated accordingly. 
  See page 126  See page 126 and note 23 to the Group accounts on page 162
STRATEGIC REPORT
32 BAE SySTEmS Annu Al R EpORT 2013
Segmental  
performance The Group has five principal reporting segments  
which align with the Group’ s strategic direction.
Reporting segments financial performance summary
KPI KPI KPI KPI 
2013
Funded order intake 1 £m
Order backlog 1,2 £bn Sales 1 £m
Underlying EBITA 3 £m
Return  on sales  % Cash flow 4 £m
Electronic Systems 2,697 3.7 2,466 346 14.0 235
Cyber & Intelligence 1,247 0.7 1,243 115 9.3 118
Platforms & Services (US) 3,421 7.4 4,196 265 6.3 192
Platforms & Services (UK) 5,979 20.3 6,890 879 12.8 59
Platforms & Services (International) 7,221 12.3 4,063 429 10.6 (189)
HQ 303 – 306 (109) (268)
20,868 44.4 19,164
Less: Intra-group (1,580) (1.7) (984)
Total 19,288 42.7 18,180 1,925 10.6 147
1  Including share of equity accounted investments. 2  Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders. 3  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33). 4  Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities after capital expenditure (net) and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust. 5  Excluding HQ. 6  Including share of equity accounted investments’ order backlog and before the elimination of intra-group order backlog. 7  The appropriate work share of the Saudi Aircraft Acquisition (under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme), Saudi Typhoon Aircraft and Saudi Typhoon Support contracts is reported within Platforms & Services (UK).
STRATEGIC REPORT
36 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
Business model – page 9
BAE Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, 
and anticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has 
processes in place to support the long-term sustainability of the Group.
Sustainability of our reputation and our licence to operate is an integral part of the Group’s business model. It is focused on embedding responsible business behaviours and placing emphasis not just on what the Group does, but how it is done.
The Group focuses on the areas identified by internal and external stakeholders as having the greatest potential to affect the long-term sustainability of the business, by directly impacting the Group’s reputation or ability to operate. The areas identified that shape the Group’s sustainability objectives and programmes are high priorities for the Group.
A culture of integrity BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics programme globally, driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in making ethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices. 
The Group’s Code of Conduct sets out the principles and standards of business conduct expected of all employees. It provides them with practical guidance on how to deal with situations that may arise in their day-to-day activities.
Clear governance structures and visible leadership play a vital role in embedding corporate responsibility.
The Group’s governance framework, as described in the Operational Framework, covers the products we make and export. The Group’s Responsible Trading Principles, Product Trading Policy and Pursuit of Export Opportunities Policy help employees make informed decisions about the business opportunities the Group pursues and to address any responsible trading risks, including risks associated with the product and its intended end use, the country of origin and delivery, and the customer. 
The Group is committed to respecting human rights in its operations, within its sphere of influence. 
An inspired workforce BAE Systems recognises that its employees are key to delivering the Group’s strategy successfully and sustaining future business. 
People development The Group’s people strategy of through-career capability development and emphasis on high levels of employee engagement seeks to maximise the contribution that its workforce makes to the performance of the business.
The success of this strategy is measured ultimately in the success of the business as a whole.
Diversity and inclusion BAE Systems is committed to creating an inclusive work environment where a diverse range of talented people can work together to ensure business delivery. Diversity amongst the Group’s workforce is a significant force for innovation and assists the Group in responding to customer requirements. 
At the end of 2013, three (27%) and two (17%) of the Board and Executive Committee members, respectively, were women. Globally, 59 (15%) and 15,000 1 (20%) of the Group’s senior managers 2 and total workforce are women, respectively.
Employee safety Safety of the Group’s employees, and anybody who works on its sites, is a key priority. The Group continues to embed a safety first approach by providing training and tools that help employees understand the importance of a safe workplace, and encouraging employees to take responsibility for their own safety and the safety of those around them. The senior leadership of the Group plays a key role in maintaining the focus on safety and leading through example. 
Responsible environmental management Operational The Group’s goal is to reduce the environmental impact of its operations 
and products by using energy, water and waste more efficiently.
Businesses across the Group have environmental management systems in place that monitor and manage impacts from greenhouse gas emissions, material and solvent use, waste products, and emissions to the atmosphere.
Product Environmental considerations are taken into account throughout a product’s lifecycle from concept, design and manufacture through to use and disposal via the Group’s Lifecycle Management (LCM) process (see page 69). This includes reducing the environmental impacts of the Group’s products during research and development, minimising waste materials during manufacturing, and helping to reduce the impact of our products when they are used, upgraded or disposed of.
Product stewardship The Group’s Research & Development (R&D) activities cover a wide range of programmes, and include technological innovations and techniques to improve the manufacturing and service of products. In 2013, R&D expenditure was £1,051m (2012 £1,138m) of which £171m (2012 £150m) was funded by the Group.
It is critical that the Group’s products perform as designed without harm to the people using them. No complex and innovative product, whether used in defence or civilian markets or both, is without risk. It is essential that the Group achieves an appropriate balance between the benefits they provide to customers and the risks associated with their use.
Community investment BAE Systems’ Global Community Investment Strategy is defined through the support it provides both financial and through volunteering. BAE Systems aims to align its resources in support of primary areas of focus – the needs of the Group’s customers, education and skills, heritage and the communities in which the Group operates. 1 Excluding equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees. 2  Senior managers are defined as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part of the Group and/or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings.
STRATEGIC REPORT
62 BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013
Su Stainability 
Summary GOVERNANCE 
SUMMARY
 “ Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively 
responsible for the long-term success of the company.”
UK Corporate Governance Code
Board appointments The Nominations Committee is responsible for managing the orderly succession of appointments to the Board. In discharging this role, it reviews the balance of skills and experience on the Board regularly, and manages the process of identifying suitable candidates for appointment.
 See Nominations Committee report on page 79
During 2013, the Board appointed Sir Roger Carr to succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman. The search for a suitable candidate to succeed Sir Richard was led by the Nominations Committee, which for this purpose was chaired by the Company’s Senior Independent Director, Nick Rose. He engaged with key stakeholders, including major shareholders, throughout the process.
Sir Roger Carr is an experienced company director, having served as chairman on a number of large listed company boards, most recently as chairman of Centrica plc. At present, he is also deputy chairman and senior independent director of the Court of the Bank of England and a member of the UK Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group. In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Sir Roger was independent as at the date of his appointment.
Jerry DeMuro was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014 having succeeded Linda Hudson as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Group’s US business. Mr DeMuro is an experienced US executive who has worked in the national security, technology and aerospace industry for over 30 years. Most recently, he served as executive vice president and corporate vice president of General Dynamics’ Information Systems and Technology Group.
Two independent non-executive directors, Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg, also joined the Board during the year.
In line with best governance practice, all the members of the Board will seek re-election by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting.
The above changes to the Board had a negative impact on its gender diversity. At present, 18% of directors are women (2013 27%). However, the Board remains committed to an aspirational target of at least 25% of its members being women by 2015.
 See Corporate governance report on page 69
Accountability The UK government introduced new requirements for company reporting during 2013. These changes provide an opportunity for boards to improve the quality of reporting on their stewardship of the company. In line with the new requirements, the Board has taken the opportunity to revise its reporting with greater emphasis on producing a focused analysis of the performance of the Company in the Strategic Report. In addition, it has considered the requirement in the UK Corporate Governance Code for narrative reports to be ‘fair, balanced and understandable’, and how directors can ensure that they are in a position to make a timely and well-informed determination on this matter. The Board has reviewed the process for the drafting of the Annual Report and the assurance process used to verify its accuracy and completeness. All Board members have participated in reviewing and commenting on drafts of the report to help ensure that the final publication meets the ‘fair, balanced and understandable’ requirement.
Remuneration After a wide-ranging debate in 2013 that engaged many stakeholders, the UK government enacted regulations that have changed significantly the requirements concerning directors’ remuneration and the role that shareholders play in agreeing a policy on directors’ pay and the maximum payable. The policy agreed and proposed by the Board’s Remuneration Committee is the result of a detailed review that began with a wide-ranging discussion and analysis of what it wished to achieve regarding executive pay and the various remuneration structures that could be employed. The views of the Company’s major shareholders were sought during this process.
As required by the new regulations, the directors’ remuneration policy as detailed in this Annual Report will be put to shareholders for their approval at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
  See Remuneration Committee report on page 80
Corporate responsibility In 2013, five years after the publication of Lord Woolf’s Report on ethical business conduct in BAE Systems plc, the Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee both reviewed the status of ethical business matters across the Company. It was recognised that a great deal had been achieved in that period through positive leadership from the Board downwards. However, it was recognised that the Board needed to remain vigilant in its oversight of ethical business conduct matters so as to ensure that standards are maintained over the long term and that the Company continues to be at the forefront in this area. The Corporate Responsibility Committee agreed additional activities to help secure a lasting legacy of leadership in the area of responsible business behaviour.
  See Corporate Responsibility Committee report on page 77
Board performance evaluation Each year, the Board uses an external facilitator to assist in reviewing its effectiveness. Directors discuss the feedback from this process and agree objectives aimed at ensuring that the Board remains effective and at the forefront in developing and applying best practice in the boardroom. A review of performance against 2013 objectives is presented opposite.
Code compliance The Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout 2013 and the Board has applied its principles in its governance structure and operations.
 See Corporate governance report on page 69
Business model - page 9
STRATEGIC REPORT
64 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAL REPORT 2013
 See Chief Executive’s review section on pages 20 to 23 
Business  
model BAE Systems is a global defence, aerospace and security company, delivering 
a wide range of products and services for air, land and naval forces, as well as 
advanced electronics, security, information technology and support services. 
The Group’ s business model focuses not just on what it does, but how it does it.
delivering sustainaBle growth in shareholder value through  
t otal performance customer 
focus
 Page 10
f inancial 
performance Page 12
p rogramme 
execution
 Page 11
r esponsi Ble 
Behaviour Page 13
s trong governance Page 19 
d elivering s ustainaB ility Page 18 
o utstanding capaB ilities Page 16 
multiple markets Page 14 
References to the business model throughout the  Annual Report
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE Sy StEmS Annu Al R EPoRT 2013 9
Chief e xe Cutive’s 
review Ian King, Chief Executive
Overview Overall, the Group delivered a solid performance in 2013, against the background of reduced government spending and tough market conditions. A proactive focus on costs and enhanced competitiveness allowed us to protect our margins across the majority of the business and we secured further contract wins in the US, Saudi Arabia and internationally. Our results also benefited from the satisfactory conclusion of price escalation negotiations with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, relating to an existing contract to supply Typhoon aircraft. We have continued to invest in research and technology and to develop business in international markets, and our strong order backlog and robust balance sheet as we enter 2014 are testament to our business health. 
US In the US, budget uncertainties continued to impact government spending and procurement decisions throughout 2013. Sequestration measures resulting from the 2011 Budget Control Act either reduced or delayed many US activities. The Sequestration measures were targeting savings of approximately $450bn (£272bn) from US defence budgets over a ten-year period, equivalent to an approximately 10% overall reduction. As certain areas of spending were protected from these reductions, such as military personnel accounts, the budgets funding much of the US defence industrial base are likely to be disproportionately impacted.
In addition to the Sequestration measures, in October, the political disagreements over the terms of a Continuing Resolution to cover the remainder of the 2013 fiscal year resulted in a partial US government shutdown. Following the brief shutdown, a Continuing Resolution was passed to fund the government until 15 January 2014. Whilst some disruption resulted from the shutdown, the impact to the Group’s overall financial performance was not material.
In December, a bipartisan budget proposal for a two-year federal budget agreement was approved by Congress and signed into law. The resulting spending bill was approved in January 2014, far earlier in the fiscal cycle than in previous years, and whilst this legislation does not eliminate the Sequester completely, it does ease the significant and indiscriminate cuts that were expected in 2014 and 2015. 
Given this environment, we based our planning assumptions on a progressive reduction in our US defence and security businesses of approximately 15% for 2013 and 2014. The recent budget developments return some clarity to near-term US government spending, although pressures to reduce spending and address the US deficit are expected to continue.
STRATEGIC REPORT
20 BAE Sy StEmS Ann UAl R EpORT 2013
Ex Ecutiv E committ EE 
obj Ectiv Es The Executive Committee sets annual objectives which focus on deliverables in 
support of delivery of both short-term results and the overall long-term strategy. 
Performance against the 2013 objectives is discussed below. Recognising the strong 
momentum in delivery of the strategy, the objectives for 2014 remain unchanged.
 See the Group Strategic Framework on pages 7 and 8 
 See the Group’s Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 to 28 
2013 objective
Financial 
pErF ormancE
Meet 2013 financial targets
2013 performance Underlying earnings 1 per share was above threshold, but below target. Order intake 2 was on target. Net cash/(debt) 3 was above target, but below stretch.
 See Annual remuneration report on page 94
2014 objective Meet 2014 financial targets
2013 objective
c ustom Er F ocus 
and programm E 
ExE cution
Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution 
2013 performance The Group continued to deliver on its commitments to its customers with good programme execution reflected in an overall improvement in outturn margin across its major programmes.
2014 objective Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution
2013 objective
rE sponsibl E 
bE haviour Progress towards recognised leading positions
2013 performance Group targets for safety and environment were met. All Executive Committee members met their individual targets for diversity and inclusion.
 See Annual remuneration report on page 94
2014 objective Progress towards recognised leading positions
2013 objective
EngagEmE nt
Inspire and engage our people  to deliver success
2013 performance Strategy workshops and supporting materials have been rolled out to employees across the businesses during the year to help employees to recognise their role in delivering the Group’s strategic objectives.
2014 objective Inspire and engage our people to deliver success
 See page 12 for more information
  See pages 10 and 11 for  more information
 See page 13 for more information
 See page 114 for more information
1  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items (see note 8 to the Group accounts). 2 Including share of equity accounted investments. 3  See note 10 to the Group accounts.
STRATEGIC REPORT
24 BAE Sy StEmS ANNUAl R EPORT 2013
Business model – page 9
Key performance 
indicators The Board uses a range of quantitative financial and non-financial  
performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to monitor the  
Group’ s performance against its Total Performance and Executive  
Committee objectives. Executive directors’ remuneration is linked  
to certain of these measures.
Financial Performance
The Group sets challenging financial targets through its Integrated Business Planning process to 
maximise financial performance and drive long-term shareholder value.
Funded order intake 1,3 (£bn) Funded order intake 1,3 (£bn)
2010 16.3
2009 21.6
2011 16.6
2012 22.3
2013 19.3
£19.3BN
Definition Funded order intake represents the value of funded orders received from customers in the year. Funded order intake is a measure of in-year performance and supports future years’ sales performance.
Comment Funded order intake 3 benefited from long-term support contracts and further weapons packages in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia secured during the year, and order backlog 3 was sustained at over £42bn. Non-UK/US funded order intake 3 was £9.3bn (2012 £11.2bn), 48% (2012 50%) of total funded order intake 3 .
Sales 1,3 (£bn) Sales 1 (£bn)
2010 22.3
2009 21.8
2011 19.2
2012 17.9
2013 18.2
£18.2BN +2%
Definition Sales represents the amounts derived from the provision of goods and services, and includes the Group’s share of sales of its equity accounted investments.
Comment Volume reductions in the US businesses and, in particular, at Land & Armaments were more than offset by the resumption of Typhoon aircraft deliveries and trading of the price escalation on the Salam programme.
 See sales 3 bridge chart on page 33 
✪  Part of the executive directors’ ✓ Target 7 achieved 2013 annual incentive
1 2012 re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation (see note 7 to the Group accounts). 2  2012 restated on adoption of the revised IAS 19, Employee Benefits (see page 126). 2011 and prior years have not been restated. 3  Including share of equity accounted investments. 4  Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense (EBITA) excluding non-recurring items (see page 33). 5  Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items (see note 8 to the Group accounts).
 See Executive Committee objectives on page 24 See Group financial performance on page 32 See Segmental performance on page 36
 See page 94
STRATEGIC REPORT
26 BAE Sy StEmS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013
Risk 
Manage Ment
Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the 
Group’ s strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value, protection 
of its reputation and meeting the requirements of good corporate governance.
Board The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, and ensuring that risks are managed effectively across the Group.
Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings and the Board reviews risk as part of its annual strategy review process. This is aimed at providing the Board with an appreciation of the key risks within the business and oversight of how they are being managed.
The Board delegates certain risk management activities to the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees as follows.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors the Group’s key risks identified by the risk assessment processes and reports its findings to the Board twice a year. It is also responsible for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control policies, and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee monitors the Group’s performance in managing the Group’s significant non-financial risks, including those arising in respect of business conduct, health and safety, and the environment, and reports its findings to the Board on a regular basis.
Approach The Group’s approach to risk management is aimed at the early identification of key risks, to remove or reduce the likelihood and effect of those risks before they occur, and deal effectively with them if they crystallise.
The Group is committed to the protection of its assets, which include human, intellectual and physical property, and financial resources, through an effective risk management process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board where appropriate. The underlying principles 
of the Group’s risk management policy are that risks are monitored continuously, associated action plans reviewed, appropriate contingencies provisioned and this information reported through established management control procedures.
As with any system of internal control, the policies and processes that are mandated  in the Operational Framework are designed  to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and  can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Financial and non-financial risks Financial risks expose the Group to potential costs which are quantifiable on the basis that their probability and impact can be adequately understood and related to the financial statements.
Non-financial risks cannot readily be assessed in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be reflected reliably in the financial statements.
Process Businesses The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests with the line management of the businesses. They are also responsible for reporting and monitoring key risks in accordance with established processes under the Group’s Operational Framework.
The Group’s risk management process is set out in the Risk Management Policy, a mandated policy under the Operational Framework, and, in respect of projects, in  the Lifecycle Management Framework, a core business process under the Operational Framework. Further guidance is provided  by a Risk Management Maturity  self-assessment tool.
Identified risks are documented in controlled risk registers showing: the risks that have been identified; characteristics of the risk; the basis for determining mitigation strategy; and what reviews and monitoring are necessary. Each risk is allocated an owner who has authority and responsibility for assessing and managing it.
Project risks are reported and monitored in Group-mandated format Contract Review Packs, which are reviewed by management at monthly Contract Reviews. The financial performance of projects is reported and monitored using Contract Status Reports, which form part of the Contract Review Pack. These include programme margin metrics, which are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee and Board (see KPI on page 28). Project margin is recognised after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
In addition, every six months, the businesses complete an Operational Assurance Statement (OAS), which is a mandated policy under the Operational Framework. The OAS is in two parts: a self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework; and a report showing the key financial and non-financial risks for the relevant business. Together with reviews undertaken by Internal Audit and the work of the external auditors, the OAS forms the Group’s process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Executive Committee The key financial and non-financial risks identified by the businesses from the risk assessment processes are collated and reviewed by the Executive Committee to identify those issues where the cumulative risk, or possible reputational impacts, could be significant.
Management responsibility for the management of the Group’s most significant non-financial risks is determined by the Executive Committee. The OAS and Non-financial Risk registers are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee to monitor the status and progression of mitigation plans, and these key risks are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Principal risks Risks are identified as principal based on the likelihood of occurrence and potential impact on the Group. The principal risks identified by the Group using the policies and processes explained above during the year are summarised on page 31. 
 For more information on the activities of the Board and its committees see pages 69 to 81
 For more information on the Group’s business processes and mandated policies see page 69
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 29
Strategic  
report What you Will find in thi S Section 
07
  g ro u p S t r a t e g i c  
fra Me Wor K
The Group Strategic Framework integrates 
the Group’s major goals and actions, 
and defines the direction and shape 
of the Group over the long term.
09
  B u S i n e S S  
Model How BAE Systems serves the needs of its 
customers by delivering a wide range of 
advanced defence, aerospace and security 
solutions.
26
  K e y p e r f o r M a n c e  
indicator S
The Group’s progress against its 
objectives is monitored through a range 
of quantitative financial and non-financial 
performance indicators.
24
  e X e c u t i V e c o M M i t t e e o BJecti Ve S
The Executive Committee objectives 
support both the delivery of  
near-term results and the overall  
longer-term strategy.
29
  r i SK  
Manage Ment An overview of the Group’s approach to 
the effective management of risks and 
processes used to identify both financial 
and non-financial risks.
This Strategic Report was approved by the  
board of directors on 19 February 2014.
David Parkes, Company Secretary
20
  c hi e f e X e c u t i V e ’ S  
re Vie W
Ian King, Chief Executive, summarises 
the Group’s performance, including 
commentary on its major markets 
and financial position.
32
  g ro u p f i nan c i al 
perfor Mance Peter Lynas, Group Finance Director, 
summarises the financial performance 
of the Group in 2013.
64
  g o V e r nan c e 
Su MMary An overview of the Group’s approach to 
governance and directors’ remuneration.
62
  S u S t ai na B i l i t y 
Su MMary Creating a sustainable business requires 
more than financial results. The Group 
places great importance not just on what  
it does, but how it does it.
36
  S e g M e n t a l 
perfor Mance The 2013 performance and characteristics 
of the Group’s five principal reporting 
segments are summarised.
31
  p ri n c i p a l ri S KS 
Su MMary A summary of the principal risks identified 
by the Group based on the likelihood of 
occurrence and potential impact.
6 BAE SySt Em S Annu AL REPoRT 2013
