 6
Zytronic plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 www.zytronic.co.uk
Touch screens
The manufacturing technology, pCT , 
employed for its touch sensors is unique 
to	Zytronic	and	offers	significant	benefits	
to traditional users of resistive, capacitive 
and surface Acoustic Wave (“sAW”) 
technologies. Unlike the other touch 
technologies, the active component 
of Zytronic’s technology is embedded 
for protection, providing a true safety 
laminated, pure glass fronted construction.
PCT	offers	significant	benefits	to	
electronic display manufacturers. 
The touch sensing layer consists of 
an	array	of	microfine	wires	that	are	not	
visible on a powered display. Zytronic 
has now introduced a family of glass‑based 
touch sensors using its patented pCT , 
marketed as ZyToUCH, Zypos, ZyBRID
®
 
and ZysWITCH
®
 touch sensors, and two 
plastic‑based touch sensors ZyFILM
® 
and ZypRoFILM
®
, to meet customers’ 
differing requirements.
Optical filters and displays
Zytronic 	 optical 	 filters 	 are 	 used 	 to 	
enhance the readability of all types of 
electronic displays by controlling light 
transmission,	reflection	and	absorption.	
T h e 	 fi l t e r s 	 c a n 	 a l s o 	 p r o v i d e 	 p r o t e c t i o n	
of the display from abrasion and impact 
damage	thereby	extending	the	life	of	
the display.
Both monolithic and multi‑ layer 
composites in glass or polycarbonate 
or acrylic are available. The optical 
laminations are manufactured by 
bonding together, under carefully 
controlled conditions, two or more 
glass or plastic materials using 
proprietary bonding techniques. 
Zytronic produces a wide range of 
o p t i c a l 	 fi l t e r s 	 w h i c h 	 a r e 	 d e s i g n e d 	 t o	
meet	specific	customer	requirements	
for viewability of display systems in 
different environments.
EMI/RFI shielded filters 
Electromagnetic Interference (“EMI”) 
can be described as any form of 
electrical disturbance, signal or noise 
which interferes with the ability of 
electrical or electronic equipment 
to function correctly.
This interference is also referred to 
as Radio Frequency Interference (“RFI”) 
and is active throughout the environment. 
Its effects vary from impaired TV or 
radio reception to severe disruption 
of communications, data processing 
and medical and defence activities. 
Its sources are both natural and 
man‑made. It is also necessary to 
contain emitted signals from computer 
and data handling equipment to prevent 
electronic	eavesdropping	for	example.
Zytronic has its own specialist plating 
plant to enable it to manufacture such 
filters 	 to 	 customers’ 	 exacting 	 specifications.
What we do, at a glance
Electronic display products
End users 7
Zytronic plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 www.zytronic.co.uk
Laminated products 
Laminated glass is produced by bonding 
two or more layers of glass together by 
means of a special plasticised interlayer, 
polyvinyl butyral (“pVB”).
This interlayer, after processing under 
controlled heat and pressure conditions, 
assumes	a	similar	refractive	index	to	the	
glass – consequently having no adverse 
effects upon light transmission – and 
at the same time, absorbing over 99% 
of the harmful ultraviolet rays found in 
natural	sunlight.	The	excellent	bond	
strength of the pVB to glass serves 
to maintain the integrity of the laminate 
in the event of deliberate or accidental 
damage, whilst also preventing penetration 
through the assembly.
Ballistic visors 
Zytronic is a manufacturer of specialist glass 
and plastic composites for ballistic security 
and specialised display applications.
Zytronic has developed a fully laminated 
ballistic face visor combining the properties 
of pMMA and polycarbonate bonded 
together using a proprietary TpU 
sheet interlayer.
The unique process involved in bonding 
these	two	materials	results	in	the	finished	
visor offering supreme optical quality, 
minimal distortion and the highest light 
transmission when compared to the 
traditional air‑spaced option.
Other products
I ATMs 
I Taxi Cabs 
I Jukeboxes 
I Self‑Service Systems
I Medical Equipment 
I Information Points 
I Gaming Technology
I Point of Sale
