 Strategic report
2 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Murray Hennessy – Chairman
It gives me pleasure to introduce this year’s Annual Report which sets out the 
solid progress Abcam has made over the past twelve months. The Company 
has embarked on a new strategy which is delivering strong results and exceeded 
our high expectations for the year. Today, the Company is well placed to take full 
advantage of the significant opportunities that exist in our markets.
Chairman's introduction
• We have made progress in high-value targeting, 
identifying and focusing on products and 
subsectors which offer both higher-value 
and higher-volume sales opportunities.
• Our rapid progress in China demonstrates  
how investing in future markets can accelerate 
revenue growth and lay the foundations for 
expanding international business.
• Our reported revenues grew by 12.6%, a 
significant acceleration of the 4.7% growth  
we recorded in the prior year. 
Summary
Executing our strategy
Alan Hirzel was appointed CEO in September 2014 and we are very 
pleased with the results we are seeing from the implementation of 
the strategy we set out at that time. We have achieved double-digit 
growth across all of our geographic regions and product types, and 
we intend to accelerate this strategic process over the coming years. 
To continue to achieve growth in a managed and careful way, 
there are several areas of our business in which we need to invest. 
Focusing on revenue growth alone will not create a truly sustainable 
and valuable business. Rather, our strategy is to make focused 
investments to meet our consumers’ needs and then capitalise 
on the growth opportunities that this creates.
Since it was established, Abcam has spent 17 years developing its 
product expertise. We are now complementing this through building 
a consumer-centred organisational infrastructure. During the year 
we have made progress in high-value targeting, identifying and 
focusing on products and subsectors which offer both higher-value 
and higher-volume sales opportunities. As we do so we add layers 
of value and innovation to our existing business, as demonstrated 
in Our Business Model on pages 6–7.
Our strategy is enabling us to strengthen Abcam’s position 
at the heart of life science research. From our roots, providing 
antibodies in an ice bucket, we are moving to delivering comprehensive 
solutions and outstanding service levels to our consumers through 
a consistently improving online offering and geographic coverage. 
Our rapid progress in China demonstrates how investing in future 
markets can accelerate revenue growth and lay the foundations 
for an expanding international business.
  Dis cov er more about the investments we made and actions 
we took in the year in our Operational Review on pages 14–16.
Strong financial performance
Reflecting on the past twelve months, it is clear that Abcam has met 
ambitious targets and delivered results well above the underlying rate 
in our core markets. In total, after allowing for the adverse impact of 
exchange rates, our reported revenues grew by 12.6%, a significant 
acceleration of the 4.7% growth we recorded in the prior year. 
On a constant exchange rate basis our total revenue growth was 
14.2% (2013/14: 8.6%) compared with underlying market growth 
of around 4%.
After increased investment to drive future growth including the 
integration of Firefly and the negative impact of foreign exchange rate 
movements, adjusted operating margin was 34.2% (2013/14: 36.4%).
   Dis cov er more about the financial performance of the Group 
in Our Financials on pages 24–26. Strategic report
3 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
Innovation and innovators
Our progress is driven by the quality and dedication of our people. 
T oday, Abcam employs over 820 people across ten locations. They are 
our innovators: across all our divisions and functions, employees are 
collaborating to drive innovation, focusing on our consumers’ needs, 
creating value for our shareholders and delivering the technologies that 
make a real difference to life science researchers. On behalf of all our 
stakeholders I would like to thank every employee for their enthusiasm, 
hard work and commitment over the last year.
The past year has seen significant senior management changes, 
with the appointment of Yvonne Chien, Chief Digital Officer; 
Sean Hickey, Chief Information Officer; and, after the period end, 
Suzanne Smith, Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary. 
In addition, Alejandra Solache, Global Head of Reagents Product 
Development and Manufacturing, who joined the Company in early 
2014, was appointed to the Senior Leadership Team in the year. 
These appointments bring added expertise in key areas.
  Dis cov er more about our investment in our talented team 
in our Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32–36.
One culture
Abcam’s strong consumer-focused, performance-based culture is 
grounded in our purpose to provide life science researchers with the 
tools they need to enable scientific progress. Our ‘One T eam’ approach 
underlines everything we do and serves as a framework for the success 
of each employee as well as the whole Company.
  Dis cov er more about our commitment to the recognition of 
employee contributions and achievements in Our Responsibilities 
on pages 22–23.
Board changes and governance
This year has been an important one for the governance of the Group: 
Alan Hirzel succeeded Jonathan Milner as CEO in September 2014, 
with Jonathan taking up a Deputy Chairman role and I took over as 
Chairman in November 2014. In addition, Sue Harris joined the Board 
as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in December 2014.
Our effective governance framework at Board level and throughout 
the organisation has helped support this transition in leadership. 
However, we recognise that there is always scope for further 
improvement to support us in achieving the aspirations we have set 
for the Company. As such, over time the Board will continue to be 
strengthened as we seek to bring in further expertise in product 
and geographic areas.
  Dis cov er more about the actions of the Board in the year in 
the governance of risk on pages 35–36 and in the execution 
of a strategic review of remuneration in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 42–43.
Return to shareholders
The Board regularly reviews its dividend distribution policy and 
overall financial strategy to strike a balance between the needs 
of the business in terms of investment and the desire to provide a 
high level of return to shareholders. As such, we continue to operate 
a progressive dividend policy to grow the dividend if appropriate 
each year. This year the Board has recommended a final dividend 
of 5.92 pence per share to be paid on 4 December 2015 to 
shareholders on the register on 13 November 2015. This brings 
the dividend for the full year to 8.21 pence, an increase of 5.9% 
over the prior year’s dividend of 7.75 pence.
Creating future sources of value
Investment over the past two years, which has seen us deliver 
on our strategy and exceed our targets, has laid the foundation for 
growth in 2015/16 and beyond, as well as highlighting numerous new 
opportunities. To take advantage of these opportunities, investment 
will continue and gather pace. Better IT infrastructure is required to 
meet the demands of a global business dependent on gathering 
and sharing knowledge and data. Continued investment in research 
and consumer insight will enable us to identify new target products 
and bring them to market quickly. In the medium-term new premises 
will be required to provide an environment in which the best in the 
industry can work efficiently and in close proximity to one another. 
Judicious partnerships and acquisitions can accelerate this trend 
and we are pleased that Firefly is already generating revenues. 
These investments will drive further growth for shareholders over 
the coming years.
When we embarked on our new strategy in 2013/14 we recognised 
that we were at the beginning of a multi-year journey. Over time we 
must continue to balance the desire to generate growth and profits 
in the short term with the need to invest for longer-term growth. 
As Alan outlines throughout this report, the strands of our strategy are 
beginning to deliver the growth we expect. This gives us the confidence 
to continue with, and indeed, reinforce our current path.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
11 September 2015
Our core ‘One Team ’ behaviours are:
• Focused on success: taking responsibility for business 
results, being committed and dependable and having 
a team focus
• Bold: communicating effectively and innovating 
to provide solutions
• Consumer-centric: being culturally aware and focused 
on the needs of our consumers
