 Strategic report
10 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Our CEO
Abcam has transitioned from being a small high-growth 
company to a substantial business and market leader 
in its core antibody market.
Alan Hirzel – CEO
Whilst this Annual Report marks my first full year as CEO, 
it is now two years since I joined Abcam as Chief Marketing 
Officer. When I arrived I was excited by the enormous 
opportunities available to the business and my first priority 
was to outline the strategy that would ensure our continued 
outperformance of the growth of our underlying core markets. 
I am pleased that we are now seeing positive results from  
this strategy. 
Abcam has transitioned from being a small high-growth 
company to a substantial business and market leader in its core 
antibody market. Sustaining growth has required a refocusing 
of the business to meet the needs of our consumers.  
We have always invested carefully both to support our 
existing products and to acquire businesses which will enable 
us to enter new markets or develop better products more 
quickly. The results we have seen this year bear testament  
to the hard work of our people across the Company.
The past two years have seen a substantial broadening 
of the skills and experience of our Board and Senior Leadership 
Team. This has been vital to ensure that we are fit and skilled 
not just to be the business we are today, but to be able to 
support a much larger business, operating internationally in 
fast-growing and highly complex markets. This process will 
continue as we bring talent and expertise into Abcam to 
help us understand how our products and expertise can 
be extended to new markets.
Abcam cannot exist without the support and advocacy of our 
consumers – the scientific research community. Abcam today 
is at the heart of this community, providing researchers around 
the globe with products they can trust, that are of the highest 
quality, along with the data needed to support and validate 
their research. Since we began implementing our new strategy 
two things have happened that give me enormous confidence 
for the future. Better understanding of our consumers has allowed 
us to enhance our position in the core antibody market. At the 
same time, through investment and acquisitions, we see new 
markets open to us both in terms of products and new 
applications and by extending our geographic reach.
A year of hard work and sustained growth
View our Operational Review on pages 14–16 Strategic report
11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Abcam plc
What were your initial priorities in your first year 
as CEO of Abcam?
From the outset, I identified the need to clarify our vision, 
ambition and goals and to ensure we were all aligned to achieve 
these things. Secondly, it was imperative that we hire people 
with the capabilities we didn’t yet possess, that are essential 
to continue the acceleration of our growth. And thirdly, I was 
determined to see more customers and hear from them 
what they expect from Abcam today and what they need 
in the future.
What is your vision for the business?
We will be the most influential brand for every life science 
researcher that enables them to do their work more efficiently 
and productively.
What do you enjoy about your role?
Personally, I am inspired by the mission and purpose of our 
business. I started my career as a life scientist and I love being 
in a position to contribute to technical advances in biology. 
Like many people I have first-hand experience of the impact 
of diseases like cancer and I am motivated by the part we 
can play to help science and society bring solutions to these 
global challenges.
I really enjoy leading and mentoring people in our business as 
they implement our strategy. I have been fortunate to work with 
some of the best brands and executive teams in the world to 
help them achieve significant growth. I relish drawing upon such 
experiences daily as we make decisions about where and how 
to grow.
What have been the most unexpected 
developments in the business over your 
first twelve months as CEO?
I was surprised by the speed with which the market and our 
customers have embraced the changes we have made to our 
business since we defined the strategy in 2013. I have been 
delighted to discover how much more growth opportunity 
there is in our business.
What is the main focus for the year ahead?
We are continuing to press ahead with our five multi-year 
goals whilst keeping our global team focused on the areas 
of highest value. My focus will be to ensure our infrastructure 
keeps up with our growth.
What does the future hold for Abcam?
We will create an unbeatable brand in our markets, continuing with 
profitable growth that leads to a significant increase in Abcam’s 
value. Abcam will be the acknowledged leader for setting new 
standards in the life science industry: understanding customers, 
delivering reliable, high-quality products, and being the innovation 
partner of choice for the researchers we serve globally. 
Q&A...
with our Chief Executive Officer
