 Strategic Report
14
BAE Systems
Annual Report 2014
CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
2014 has seen signs of greater stability and improving 
clarity emerge in markets where budgets have been 
constrained in recent years by the wider economic 
backdrop. In this challenging but stabilising environment, 
BAE Systems has delivered a solid overall performance 
in 2014, building on the good programme execution of 
recent years. 
Defence and security continues as a high priority in 
a number of the Group’s domestic and international 
markets, including the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
The Group has also continued to win signicant new 
business. Order intake of £4.3bn was achieved from 
international markets outside the US and the UK 
contributing to the £40.5bn order backlog at year end. 
That large order backlog provides good, multi-year visibility 
across many of the Group’s businesses. In addition, the 
Group has achieved over £10bn of order intake in the 
US and UK each year over the last three years. These 
US and UK programmes provide the Group with the 
intellectual property which can be used to develop 
international and support businesses for the future.
US 
In January 2014, a US bipartisan budget agreement 
provided a two-year window of defence funding visibility 
and some emerging stability. Only minor trading 
disruption was apparent in the last quarter of 2014 as 
the government operated under a Continuing Resolution 
until the mid-December passage of an omnibus 
appropriations bill for the 2015 scal year. This included 
stable Department of Defense funding compared with 
2014, and included funding for ground vehicle 
programmes and for additional F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
US budgets are now relatively stable, with some early 
indications of a modest improvement in 2016.
On 1 February 2014, Jerry DeMuro was appointed as 
President and Chief Executive Ofcer of BAE Systems, 
Inc. Following his appointment, and recognising the 
need for continued competitive enhancement, the 
Group’s US organisation was streamlined into three 
operating sectors with resultant reductions to 
administrative overhead.
The Group’s Intelligence & Security business continued 
to face a challenging environment serving US government 
security community customers. 
“ BAE SYSTEMS 
HAS DELIVERED 
A SOLID OVERALL 
PERFORMANCE  
IN 2014.”
 Ian King, Chief Executive
TOP 12 PROGRAMMES (BY SALES
1
 VALUE IN 2014)
The Group’s top 12 programmes, which 
include platforms, services and electronic 
systems contracts, contributed 43% of the 
Group’s sales
1
 in 2014. These contracts are  
multi-year and will continue to deliver a 
signicant proportion of the Group’s sales
1
 
over the next ve years, providing long-term 
visibility and sustainment of revenues. 
At 31 December 2014, these programmes 
represented 36% of the £40.5bn order 
backlog
1,2
.
1.  Including share of equity accounted investments.
2. Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders, 
and is stated after the elimination of intra-group orders. 15
BAE Systems
Annual Report 2014
STRATEGIC  REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Strategic Report
The Group’s Electronic Systems activities beneted from 
the broad base of high-technology defence systems and 
equipment and continued good growth in commercial 
aircraft electronics. We have maintained our leadership 
position in the US electronic warfare market. The 
selection of BAE Systems to supply an advanced, 
integrated electronic ight control system for Boeing’s 
new 777X programme was a notable achievement, 
expected to generate signicant new business in future 
years. The award adds to established positions providing 
ight and engine controls across multiple commercial 
aircraft platforms. 
There was strong margin performance in the Land 
& Armaments business and a number of order awards 
on programmes that sustain key combat vehicle 
industrial base capabilities. In December, BAE Systems 
was awarded a contract for the engineering and 
manufacturing development phase of the Armored 
Multi-Purpose Vehicle programme, which will sustain 
these capabilities in the longer term. 
BAE Systems is a major provider of ship repair services 
to the US Navy. Consistent with the US Navy’s increased 
focus on Asia-Pacic operations, the Group committed 
a $103m (£66m) investment to install new oating dry 
dock facilities in its San Diego shipyard. 
Performance issues identied in 2013 in commercial 
shipbuilding continued to depress margins in the US 
Support Solutions business. There were also further 
charges taken in 2014. The operational challenges 
identied in 2013 on the Radford ammunition facility 
maintenance contract have been mitigated signicantly 
during the year.
In November, the Group was disappointed to learn that 
the Republic of Korea had decided to terminate for 
convenience the US Air Force’s Foreign Military Sales 
contract with BAE Systems to upgrade Korea’s F-16 
aircraft eet. 
UK 
In the UK, the defence and security market has been 
stable. Notwithstanding the continued constraints on 
public spending in some sectors, BAE Systems 
continues to benet from long-term contracts in the 
air and naval domains. Both major political parties 
in the UK are committed to carrying out a Strategic 
Defence and Security Review after the general election 
in May. The Group benets from a large order backlog 
of long-term committed programmes with many key 
decisions now addressed for several years.
We recognise that the economic environment in the 
UK remains challenging, placing further pressure on 
many areas of public spending, including the UK 
defence budget. Through a continued focus on cost 
control, programme execution and efciency, the 
Group is working to deliver continuous improvements 
in affordability for the UK customer to ensure that the 
Group’s large, long-term contracts deliver both value 
and world-class capability.
In the air domain, Typhoon production and the Group’s 
extensive in-service military aircraft support and  
upgrade business in the UK provide a strong core of 
high-performing business. 2014 has seen a signicant 
acceleration of capability expansion onto the Typhoon 
combat aircraft platform. Activity is underway to integrate 
additional weapons and sensors onto the aircraft for 
the four European partner nations and international 
customers. In November, the formal launch of a funded, 
multi-nation development programme for an advanced, 
electronically-scanned radar was a key milestone 
in the Typhoon platform’s evolution.
Our participation in the F-35 Lightning II combat aircraft 
programme includes UK-manufactured rear fuselage and 
empennage assemblies as well as electronic systems 
content from the Group’s US-based business. The Group 
expects signicant growth in production volume with the 
planned acceleration of aircraft deliveries. 
The outlook for the Group’s UK maritime businesses is 
robust. The build of two Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft 
carriers is progressing well. The rst of Class was named 
in a formal ceremony by Her Majesty The Queen on 
4 July and subsequently oated out of the dock in which 
she was assembled, enabling assembly of blocks for the 
second vessel to commence as the rst vessel 
continues outtting alongside. BAE Systems welcomed 
the decision, announced by Prime Minister David 
Cameron at the NATO Summit held in the UK in October, 
to commit to the operation of both vessels, providing a 
continuous-at-sea UK carrier capability.
TOP 12 PROGRAMMES (BY SALES
1
 VALUE IN 2014)
European Typhoon aircraft
End-user: Air forces of the UK, 
Germany, Italy and Spain 
Manufacture of 236 Tranche 2 and 
88 Tranche 3A Typhoon combat 
aircraft. There were 16 Tranche 2 
aircraft deliveries in 2014. As at 
31 December 2014, 219 of the 
236 contracted Tranche 2 aircraft 
had been delivered to the four 
partner nations. 
P38
F-35 Lightning II
End-user: Air forces of more than 
ten countries
BAE Systems has a signicant 
workshare on the world’s largest 
defence programme. The Group 
designs and manufactures  
sub-assemblies, including the aft 
fuselage and empennage, in the 
UK and provides key capabilities, 
including the electronic warfare 
suite, in the US. 
P29⁄ P38
Bradley Fighting Vehicle modication
End-user: US Army
BAE Systems is executing contracts 
for Bradley modications. With its 
Bradley-based solution, BAE Systems 
has been awarded a contract for 
engineering and manufacturing 
development on the US Army’s 
Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle 
programme that will help to sustain 
the Group’s US combat vehicle 
industrial base.
P35
US ship repair
End-user: US Navy
A series of Multi-Ship, Multi-Option 
contracts for non-nuclear naval ship 
repair, maintenance and upgrade 
at facilities located on the East, 
West and Gulf coasts of the US, 
as well as Hawaii. This repair and 
modernisation work is central to 
the US Navy’s lifecycle maintenance 
and service life objectives.
P35 16
BAE Systems
Annual Report 2014
Strategic Report
CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
CONTINUED
International 
In Saudi Arabia, the Group delivered a further 
11 Typhoon aircraft in the year and developed its 
position as a key part of the Kingdom’s defence 
industrial base. 
In February 2014, agreement was reached with 
the Saudi Arabian government on price escalation 
for the Salam Typhoon programme under the current 
72-aircraft contract. 
In June, we announced a reorganisation of the Group’s 
portfolio of interests in a number of industrial companies 
in Saudi Arabia and an enhancement of its existing 
relationship with Riyadh Wings Aviation Academy LLC 
(Riyadh Wings). The reorganisation brings together 
shareholdings of BAE Systems and Riyadh Wings in 
Saudi companies specialising in training, electronics 
and IT systems engineering under a single holding 
company. The reorganisation is intended to enhance 
the growth prospects of this portfolio of businesses 
and reinforce an ongoing commitment to increasing 
local employment.
In Australia, where BAE Systems is the largest defence 
contractor, the government approved, in May 2014, a 
commitment to grow defence spending within a decade 
to 2% of Gross Domestic Product. 
The Group delivered the rst of two Canberra Class 
Landing Helicopter Dock (LHD) vessels for the Royal 
Australian Navy and manufacture of the second ship 
is progressing well. Following the high level of activity 
on this programme, there is currently no material 
follow-on workload contracted. BAE Systems and the 
Australian government continue to discuss options to 
sustain industrial capabilities and meet future naval 
requirements following on from the high level of 
workload on the LHD programme. 
BAE Systems is a 37.5% shareholder in the MBDA 
guided weapons joint venture. MBDA benets from 
sales to equip a range of air and naval platforms 
across European and wider international applications. 
In December, MBDA received a €301m (£234m) 
contract to supply the air-to-air missiles for India’s 
Jaguar aircraft eet. The MBDA business has seen 
increased bidding interest on ground-based air defence 
systems in some regions.
Actions continue to implement and nalise contracts 
for the restructuring of the Group’s naval ships business 
following last year’s agreement with the UK government. 
In August, the Group was awarded a contract for the 
build of three Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Royal 
Navy, sustaining shipbuilding skills between the 
Carrier programme and the start of manufacture for 
the anticipated Type 26 frigate programme. The Group 
continues to work on the Type 26 assessment phase 
and is discussing proposals with the UK Ministry of 
Defence for the future phases of the programme. 
The Type 26 programme will provide long-term clarity 
for UK complex warship manufacture, including at the 
Group’s facilities on the River Clyde in Scotland. 
Following the Scottish independence referendum in 
September, the people of Scotland decided to remain 
within the Union. The decision was welcomed, removing 
uncertainty for the Group’s employees and its business 
based in Scotland.
In October, the Group agreed a multi-year Maritime 
Support Delivery Framework contract for the operation 
of the Royal Naval Base at Portsmouth and global 
support for half of the Royal Navy’s surface eet.
In December, a signicant contract for the upgrade of 
the Spearsh torpedo was secured. 
In the submarines business, Artful, the third of a 
planned seven Astute Class submarines, was launched 
in May. Alongside build of Astute Class boats, 
engineering work continues to accelerate as part of 
the assessment phase of the Successor submarine 
programme. The Successor programme is the potential 
replacement of Vanguard Class submarines, intended 
to enter service towards the end of the next decade. 
Cyber security
BAE Systems continues to develop its strategy for 
commercial cyber security, with growth being delivered 
and a number of important contract wins in the year. 
Order backlog in the Applied Intelligence business 
grew by 37% in the year, building on the 60% increase 
in 2013. 
We continue to target strong growth opportunities in 
commercial cyber security markets and the acquisition 
of SilverSky in December accelerates the Group’s 
strategy to grow in the commercial cyber market, 
providing an established channel to US customers.
 TOP 12 PROGRAMMES (CONTINUED)
European Typhoon support
End-user: Air forces of the UK, 
Germany, Italy and Spain
Availability-based service contracts 
for support to the customers’ 
operational commitments on 
Typhoon aircraft, including 
maintenance, support and training.
UK ship support
End-user: Royal Navy
The ve-year Maritime Support 
Delivery Framework contract for 
support to half of the Royal Navy’s 
surface eet on UK and global 
operations, as well as the 
management of Portsmouth 
Naval Base. 
Astute Class submarines
End-user: Royal Navy
Design and manufacture of seven 
nuclear-powered attack submarines. 
Artful, the third of class, was 
launched in May and completed 
her maiden dive in October. The 
remaining four boats are at various 
stages of manufacture, with the 
seventh and nal boat expected 
to enter service towards the middle 
of the next decade.
P38 P39 P39
Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers
End-user: Royal Navy
Design and manufacture of two 
65,000 tonne aircraft carriers. The 
rst of class, HMS Queen Elizabeth, 
achieved oat-up in July and continues 
outtting in advance of sea trials in 
2016. Block build for the second ship 
is 80% complete and assembly at 
Rosyth has commenced. The ships 
are expected to enter service in 
2017 and 2019, respectively. 
P39 17
BAE Systems
Annual Report 2014
STRATEGIC  REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Strategic Report
M&A
In August, the Group announced an agreement for 
the proposed sale of its 75% holding in BAE Systems 
Land Systems South Africa (Pty) Limited to Denel 
(SOC) Limited for cash consideration of approximately 
641 million Rand (£36m), subject to closing adjustments. 
The sale is expected to be completed in 2015.
As part of the reorganisation of the Group’s interests in 
Saudi Arabia, in September, BAE Systems acquired an 
additional 59% shareholding in Saudi Development and 
Training Company for 440 million Saudi Riyal (£72m).
In September, the Group completed the $21m (£13m) 
acquisition of Signal Innovations Group, Inc., a small-scale, 
high-technology provider of imaging technologies and 
analytics to the US intelligence community. 
In December, BAE Systems completed the acquisition 
of SilverSky for $232m (£149m).
In December, BAE Systems entered into an agreement 
with Esterline Corporation for the proposed acquisition 
of Eclipse Electronic Systems, Inc. for cash consideration 
of approximately $28m (£18m), subject to closing 
adjustments. The Texas-based business employs 
approximately 90 people and provides highly-advanced 
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance products 
and services to the US defence and intelligence 
community. The proposed acquisition has not yet 
completed.
Balance sheet and capital allocation 
Following the triennial funding valuations of all of 
the Group’s UK pension schemes and subsequent 
discussions with trustees, new funding agreements 
have been concluded, with overall decit funding 
remaining broadly consistent with 2014. 
In February 2013, the Group initiated a share repurchase 
programme of up to £1bn over three years. As at 
31 December 2014, BAE Systems had purchased 
119 million shares for £495m under the programme. 
The Group’s balance sheet continues to be managed 
conservatively in line with the Group’s policy to retain 
its investment grade credit rating and to ensure 
operating exibility. Consistent with this approach, the 
Group meets its pension obligations, pursues organic 
investment opportunities, plans to pay dividends in line 
with its policy of long-term sustainable cover of around 
two times underlying earnings and to make accelerated 
returns of capital to shareholders when the balance 
sheet allows. Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions 
are considered where market conditions are right and 
where they deliver on the Group’s strategy. 
Responsible business
The way the Group conducts its business is of equal 
importance as product delivery. We continue to embed 
responsible business conduct throughout the Group. 
During 2014, our employees received business conduct 
refresher training and our Code of Conduct was updated 
and will be rolled out to all employees during the rst half 
of 2015.
The safety of our employees and those using our products 
is a priority for the Group. We continue to drive safety 
improvements and, in 2014, achieved an 11% reduction 
in the Recordable Accident Rate (see page 20), which 
represents the seventh consecutive year of improvement.
Management
Kevin Taylor, previously Group Strategy Director, has 
been appointed as Managing Director, Applied Intelligence, 
to lead the business as it enters the next phase of its 
strategy to target accelerated growth and further 
develop our technology for government and commercial 
customers. Kevin will remain an Executive Committee 
member. 
Looking forward
BAE Systems benets from a large order backlog, 
long-term programmes and high-technology capabilities. 
The Group continues to address customers’ needs 
across a broad international market base. In addition, 
BAE Systems has established a good balance of 
business activities in both advanced products and 
value-added support services. The Group is well 
positioned to continue to deliver shareholder value by 
addressing customers’ continuing defence and security 
needs as economies recover in domestic markets and 
defence priorities continue to evolve. 
Ian King, Chief Executive
 TOP 12 PROGRAMMES (CONTINUED)
Successor submarine
End-user: Royal Navy
Design and development of a 
nuclear-powered submarine as 
the potential replacement for the 
Vanguard Class eet to carry the 
UK’s Trident nuclear deterrent 
towards the end of the next decade.
Salam Typhoon support
End-user: Royal Saudi Air Force
Five-year output-based maintenance, 
support and training contract 
awarded in 2013 for Typhoon aircraft 
as they progressively enter service. 
Flying hours and key performance 
indicators continue to meet 
contracted levels.
P39 P41
Saudi British Defence Co-operation 
Programme
End-user: Royal Saudi Air Force 
and Royal Saudi Naval Forces
Provision of support to operational 
capability, including contracts 
awarded in 2012 to provide 
manpower, logistics and training to 
the end of 2016 and to upgrade 
training aircraft, and in 2013 to 
upgrade Tornado aircraft.
P41
Salam Typhoon aircraft
End-user: Royal Saudi Air Force
Supply of 72 Typhoon combat 
aircraft. As at 31 December 2014, 
45 aircraft had been delivered under 
the contract. We continue to 
advance the capability and 
through-life support of these aircraft.
P41
