 Strategic Report
04
BAE Systems
Annual Report 2014
CHAIRMAN’S
LETTER
My rst year as Chairman of the Company has been both 
stimulating and engaging. I have visited our businesses 
throughout the United Kingdom, the United States of 
America, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
Without exception, I have been impressed by the 
remarkable skills of our people, reassured by our 
commitment to good corporate governance and proud 
of our determination to serve, supply and protect those 
that serve and protect us across the world.
The capabilities and pride of our people in what we do 
was particularly evident at the naming ceremony in 
Scotland of the HMS Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier in 
July, and at the prize-giving ceremony for the Chairman’s 
Awards in Washington, D.C., in December.
The executive team has continued to demonstrate 
their professionalism by effectively managing cost in 
a challenging business environment, and delivering 
underlying growth in earnings per share after adjusting 
for the one-off, retrospective benet from the Saudi 
Arabian price agreement in 2013. Group cash ow has 
continued to permit the buyback of shares, the support 
of our pension obligations and the recommendation of a 
nal dividend of 12.3p per share, making a total of 
20.5p per share for the year. 
The growing uncertainty and political instability in many 
parts of the world have undoubtedly increased many 
governments’ focus on defence and helped to stabilise 
budgets.
The message delivered by President Obama and Prime 
Minister Cameron at the NATO Summit in Wales, UK, 
calling for members to allocate 2% of Gross Domestic 
Product to their defence budgets, reected the change 
in tone and sentiment, and reinforced the importance 
of a thriving and innovative defence industry in the UK, 
US and with other allies overseas.
Throughout the year, the Company continued to enjoy 
a privileged position as a strategic supplier to the 
UK, US, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia. We 
have earned these positions over time through a mix of 
product excellence, service ethic and a commitment to 
working with each host nation to build local capability. 
This approach was particularly visible this year in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where we announced a 
reorganisation of our industrial interests which will 
enhance our local relationships and will provide high-quality 
employment for young people in the years to come.
In the second quarter of the year, the Board initiated 
a comprehensive review of all our businesses in order 
to deepen our understanding of current activity and 
establish a platform for longer-term strategic planning.
“ A YEAR OF STEADY 
PROGRESS AND 
ACHIEVEMENT.”
Sir Roger Carr, Chairman 05
BAE Systems
Annual Report 2014
STRATEGIC  REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Strategic Report
The review conrmed the importance of maintaining the 
breadth of our geographic balance, continued investment 
in the development of our wide product offering and 
the value of the service relationships we enjoy with 
the armed forces of the countries in which we operate. 
We will manage the Group’s business portfolio to address 
changes in markets and emerging opportunities. Whilst 
still a relatively small segment of the Group, prospects 
for growth in our Applied Intelligence business, which 
capitalises on our deep intelligence roots and benets 
from our wide commercial reach, are encouraging. 
In electronics, the leading-edge capability we have 
in military areas was considered to offer material 
opportunities for further penetration of the civil aircraft 
and adjacent commercial markets. The review also 
encompassed our commitment to apprenticeships, 
lifetime learning and bench-strength development to 
ensure we continue to attract and retain the nest 
engineering talent available in the marketplace.
Looking back, it has been a year of steady progress 
and achievement. We now look to 2015 with condence 
based on the existing programmes in which we are 
engaged and the depth of order backlog we have secured. 
With some reliance on anticipated naval and aircraft 
orders, there is, however, no room for complacency in 
a world where competitive pressures are increasing, 
customer demands for service and value unrelenting, 
and government nances constrained. We will respond 
to these challenges with energy, enthusiasm and vigour, 
recognising that we cannot rely on past achievement 
for future success. Picking up the pace, valuing the 
customer, driving down costs and preserving quality 
will be the watchwords of the business model and the 
hallmarks of our performance.
Directors
I succeeded Sir Richard Olver as Chairman of the Board 
on 1 February 2014 and Sir Richard stepped down from 
the Board on that date.
On 1 February 2014, Linda Hudson retired as President 
and Chief Executive Ofcer of BAE Systems, Inc. and 
as an executive director of BAE Systems plc. Linda made 
a material contribution to both the development of our 
US operations and its important role within the Group. 
On the same date, Jerry DeMuro was appointed as 
President and Chief Executive Ofcer of BAE Systems, 
Inc. and as an executive director of BAE Systems plc.
Paul Anderson, a non-executive director, retired from 
the Board on 31 December 2014 after six years of 
service. Throughout the two terms of his appointment, 
Paul made a major contribution to the strategic thinking 
of the Company in addition to chairing the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee. 
On behalf of colleagues and shareholders, I thank both 
Linda and Paul for all they have done for the Company 
and wish them well for the future.
Ian Tyler has now taken over the role of chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee.
During the course of the year, the Nominations Committee 
commenced a long-term succession planning review and 
agreed that our immediate priority was to search for a 
replacement for Paul who would have a general 
management background, international experience, be 
capable of assuming responsibility for the Remuneration 
Committee and improve the diversity of the Board. The 
search is now in process.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a nal dividend of 12.3p 
per share making a total of 20.5p per share for the year, 
an increase of 2% over 2013. At this level, the annual 
dividend is covered 1.85 times by underlying earnings 
(2013 2.1 times). Subject to shareholder approval at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid 
on 1 June 2015 to holders of ordinary shares registered 
on 17 April 2015.
Sir Roger Carr, Chairman
+2%
DIVIDEND (PENCE)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014 20.5
20.1
19.5
18.8
17.5
