 2
Access Intelligence Plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2015  |  Stock Code: ACC
Access Intelligence Overview
Access Intelligence helps organisations effectively manage their reputation and mitigate risk. Our custom-built SaaS 
platforms offer a range of reputation management applications, incident and crisis management solutions and training 
and competence management software, through the cloud. 
Our business is split into two distinct service elements:
All solutions are provided using Microsoft’s highly secure Azure infrastructure giving customers complete confidence and 
security.  Our solutions have been designed in collaboration with some of the largest companies in the world, ensuring 
they are fundamentally fit for purpose.
Brand Strategy
Over the year, Access Intelligence has focused on consolidating operations to strengthen the brand.  We have divested 
non-core businesses, while making acquisitions to complement the core. Together, this ensures a distinct road map for 
the future around four key strategic aims:
1.Predictable Revenue
In addition to putting a focus on multi-year deals, 
we are developing long-term and predictable new 
business revenue models that optimise earnings 
growth, promote free cash flow and deliver attractive 
returns on capital reinvested in the business.
2. High customer retention rates
Our innovative offerings and intuitive solutions 
deliver value that increases with use over time. This 
builds loyalty amongst users. We also have solid 
experience in successfully developing customer 
management programmes, which are a strong 
retention tool.
3. Focus on target sectors 
While our software can be used across all sectors, we 
have a strategic focus on regulated industries and the 
public sector. Such clients place a premium on being able 
to manage and mitigate operational and reputational risk, 
which provides strong growth potential. 
4. Investing in talent
We believe in recruiting the best people and attract 
leading industry executives with deep expertise in 
reputation and risk management. We also search for the 
brightest graduates, putting potential recruits through 
a rigorous 48-hour selection process. Our training and 
reward programmes ensure that talent and leadership 
thrive at all levels of the organisation.
Reputation Management
Vuelio 
Reputation Management                                                     
Risk Management
AIControlPoint  
Incident & Crisis Management 
AITrackRecord
Training, Competence & Risk Management                                              www.accessintelligence.com
3
What is SaaS?
Software as a Service (SaaS) solutions are designed to accelerate adoption and increase value for customers without 
the cost burdens or risks of implementing costly software or hardware.
SaaS delivers on-demand software functionality via the internet from a single application shared across multiple users. 
SaaS solutions require only a web browser for access, eliminating the need to install and maintain the software and 
hardware associated with desktop installed products. Furthermore, they replace the upfront licence fees and lengthy 
implementation cycles of traditional installed applications with a “pay-as-you-go” subscription based service, usually 
following an upfront professional services fee to cover installation and configuration.
Benefits for End Users
• Frequent Upgrades: Our SaaS model allows more 
regular updates at a lower cost than traditional software 
companies.
• Lower Cost of Ownership: Maintenance costs are 
lower, no licence costs and the lower distribution costs 
for the vendor are passed on to the consumer.
• Higher Level of Service from Vendors: Vendors must 
become more responsive to customer needs or they 
risk losing subscription revenues.
Benefits for SaaS Vendors
• Predictable Revenue and Cash Flows: Customers 
pay for software by subscription rather than buying 
a licence resulting in more certainty about future 
revenue and cash flow.
• Truly Scalable: Software can be distributed rapidly, 
via the internet, to many new customers at minimal 
incremental cost to the company.
• Highly Valued: Due to predictibility of revenues and 
cash flows and ease of scalability.
  4
Access Intelligence Plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2015  |  Stock Code: ACC
Vuelio
Customer use: PR, Public Affairs and Reputation Management
Customers include: Nokia, The Metropolitan Police, Vodafone, Freshfields, First Group and FedEx 
Vuelio operates a comprehensive portfolio of products and services for public relations and public 
affairs professionals throughout the UK and Europe.  
This new flagship brand was created last year following our acquisition of the UK operations of global 
PR software company, Cision.  This deal expanded our customer base in the communications sector 
six-fold, as well as providing a wealth of operational, technology and business development assets.  
Vuelio enables effective stakeholder management. The integrated Vuelio Communications Software 
suite provides a complete solution for allowing communications and public affairs professionals to 
identify and engage with high-value media, digital and political influencers and internal communications 
audiences.
While Vuelio supports communications professionals across all sectors, we have a strong presence 
in the public sector and other highly regulated industries.  This strategy allows us to maximise the 
core competencies of our portfolio to mitigate risk, whilst also providing upsell opportunities.  We 
also have an active and successful initiative to heighten retention rates through multi-year deals. 
Our Brands www.accessintelligence.com
5
AITrackRecord
Customer use: Training, Competence and Employee Performance Management
Customers include: Aviva and St. James’s Place.
AITrackRecord is a powerful complete solution for training, competence and compliance 
management; designed specifically for the highly regulated UK financial services industry. It gives 
companies full visibility of staff competences, knowledge, performance and compliance through 
a single central console. The data gives senior managers a previously unseen insight into their 
reporting line, helping them identify trends and make informed decisions that have a proven impact 
on the bottom line. By combining information from different parts of a business, AITrackRecord 
reduces administrative demands, decreases the cost of competence and compliance management 
and mitigates the significant risk of non-compliance.
AIControlPoint
Customer use: Incident & Crisis Management
Customers include: easyJet, British Petroleum, Thomas Cook and Manchester Airport Group.
AIControlPoint is a suite of technologies that help companies in high-risk industries manage 
incidents and crises and proactively mitigate risk. This ensures crisis response, whether localised or 
global, is swift, tailored and meets all necessary regulatory requirements. Organisations have used 
AIControlPoint to manage some of the world’s most high-profile incidents in recent years, including 
the 2015 Tunisia terror attacks. AIControlPoint is already well used in the highly regulated aviation 
and oil and gas sectors, and is gradually becoming embedded in new markets, such as travel and 
tourism.
