 Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015 4
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
I am pleased to report Accsys has delivered 
another encouraging year of progress with 
continued improvements in revenue and 
profitability whilst making significant steps 
towards fully leveraging our range of 
transformational technologies, building on 
the momentum we have generated to date 
and equipping the Group for the next phase 
of growth. We are making excellent headway 
in realising Accsys’s substantial potential 
over the longer term and I am confident that 
the Group will be cash flow positive over the 
year ahead.
Financial summary 
Total revenue for the year ended 31 March 
2015 increased by 38% to €46.1m (2014: 
€33.5m). In the same period, Accoya® wood 
revenue increased by 39% to €40.7m (2014: 
€29.3m). Total revenue included €1.1m of 
income recorded in the second half of the 
year reflecting continued progress with our 
Accoya licensee, Solvay (2014: €1.1m) with 
€0.7m arising from the Global Marketing 
agreement signed in the year.
Gross profit margin for the Group improved 
from 23% to 27%, resulting from increased 
Accoya volumes, price increases and 
operating efficiencies. Other operating costs 
increased by 12.7% to €16.0m (2014: €14.2m) 
largely due to an increase in staff costs, 
including the impact of foreign exchange, and 
we recorded exceptional costs of €2.9m 
resulting from the arbitration process with 
Diamond Wood (2014: €0.7m). 
The improved performance resulted in 
underlying EBITDA loss reducing by 52% to a 
€2.4m loss (2014: €5.0m loss). The ongoing 
improvement during the year, including the 
implementation of a price increase, enabled 
the EBITDA loss to reduce to €0.4m in the 
second half of the financial year.
The manufacturing facility generated a 
positive EBITDA of €6.9m, a 188% increase 
compared to last year (2014: €2.4m), 
continuing to illustrate the potential returns 
achievable when manufacturing at higher 
volume levels.
The cash balance of €10.8m at 31 March 
2015 (2014: €15.2m) reflects a significant 
improvement in our cash flow. Excluding 
exceptional costs, the cash out flow of €1.3m 
is a 73% improvement compared to the prior 
year (2014: €4.8m).
Operational progress
Accoya wood sales volumes increased by 32% 
to 33,483m
3
 (2014: 25,391m
3
), reflecting 
further improvement in market acceptance 
and our ongoing investment in our brand and 
marketing activities. The demand has been 
met by the continued focus on increasing the 
efficiency and manufacturing capacity of our 
plant in Arnhem which is now in excess of 
40,000m
3
 per annum. 
This increased output has been achieved 
without undermining the Group’s health 
and safety record and our commitment to 
operational improvements remains a central 
focus going forward.
We continue to make progress in our objective 
of increasing the manufacturing capacity for 
our products in the longer term. In November 
2014, our Accoya licensee Solvay, confirmed 
it was to proceed to the next stage of 
preparation of their plant in Freiburg, Germany, 
and has since completed the site clearance, 
appointed a EPCM contractor and placed 
orders for key equipment. 
We have received €2m (non-refundable) 
resulting from the Accoya Marketing 
Agreement entered into with Solvay in 
December 2014 to help fund marketing 
activities focussing on North America. The 
continuation of this agreement remains 
conditional upon on Solvay and Accsys 
completing full agreements in respect 
of further global cooperation for which 
discussions are ongoing.
In March 2015, we made an important 
step towards the construction of the first 
Tricoya plant. We agreed a Memorandum 
of Understanding (‘MoU’) with a large 
international chemical group (the ‘Chemical 
Group’) under which it is envisaged that 
Accsys will lead the creation of a new 
consortium, including the Chemical Group, to 
fund, build and then operate the new plant, 
with production envisaged to commence 
in 2017. A detailed site feasibility review 
is examining whether the plant should be 
optimally located on one of the Chemical 
Group’s sites and the terms of the MoU include 
funding, technical and other operational 
support in respect of the next stage of the 
project. We are now in detailed discussions 
with other parties, including the Chemical 
Group, which are expected to lead to the 
creation of the new consortium.
In March 2015 we also acquired the 
remaining 50% share in Tricoya Technologies 
Limited (‘TTL’) owned by Ineos, giving us 
100% ownership and control until the new 
consortium structure is established. Sales of 
Medite Tricoya have continued to grow, with 
sales having increased by 73% compared to 
the year before.
We have recorded exceptional costs of €2.9m 
(2014: €0.7m) relating to the previously 
reported arbitration ruling concluded in the 
period in respect of the dispute with Diamond 
Wood. We have since recommenced our 
working relationship with Diamond Wood and 
we continue to believe that the China and 
South-East Asia region offers substantial 
opportunities for Accoya in the long term.
  Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015 5
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
38%
Total revenue increase
52%
Improvement in  
underlying EBITDA loss
Board of Directors 
We have completed a review of the 
composition of the Board following the death 
of Gordon Campbell in April 2014. Gordon 
had been instrumental in shaping Accsys and 
it is an honour to succeed him as Chairman. 
We subsequently increased the strength and 
diversity of the Board by appointing Sean 
Christie and Sue Farr in November 2014, 
bringing with them extensive corporate 
experience particularly in, respectively, the 
speciality chemicals and marketing industries.
Outlook
Our recent growth and progress with key 
third parties leaves us well positioned to take 
advantage of the substantial opportunity that 
exists for our products and technologies. I 
expect demand for Accoya wood to continue 
to grow, as has been evidenced in the start 
of the new financial year with positive 
trading against an improving market backdrop 
resulting in further sales growth.
We will make further improvements to our 
plant to help meet this challenge however 
ultimately the expected longer term demand 
for Accoya and Tricoya® can only be met 
by new manufacturing facilities and we are 
exploring all options in this respect. Solvay is 
making steady progress towards their first 
plant in Freiburg and I am encouraged by the 
steps we have taken recently in respect of the 
first Tricoya plant. We continue to consider 
additional opportunities and how best to 
participate in the returns we believe are 
achievable from manufacturing. 
Patrick Shanley
Non-Executive Chairman
15 June 2015
p Accoya  Decking in Brazil
