 Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015 6
Chief Executive’s Report
Another record year for Accoya® sales
We had another strong year with Accoya® 
wood revenue of €40.7m representing a 39% 
increase (2014: €29.3m). We have focussed 
on developing our existing customers and 
geographies and I am pleased with the 
continued progress in most regions, with the 
UK increasing by 54%; 56% in Solvay’s region 
and 59% in the Americas. However, trading in 
Benelux has remained disappointing with the 
construction and timber industries 
significantly impacted by poor economic 
conditions resulting in a number of 
bankruptcies which have impacted our 
customers in the year.
Sales are driven by many different end-use 
applications, however we believe focussing 
on the joinery sector, for windows and doors, 
and decking provides the business with the 
best prospect of further sales growth whilst 
simultaneously ensuring Accoya obtains 
wider recognition in the market place. We will 
therefore continue to expand our technical 
sales efforts in these areas which have 
proved so successful in the UK over the last 
two years, to other regions focussing initially 
on the USA and Benelux.
Accoya sold to Medite for the manufacture of 
Medite Tricoya® increased by 90% to €5.5m 
(2014: €2.9m). The margin for this material 
remains below that achieved for the majority 
of Accoya we sell, reflecting our investment 
in the Tricoya project and that the current 
manufacturing process is in place only until 
the first dedicated Tricoya plant is 
operational. We expect volumes sold to 
Medite to increase in the new financial year, 
but at a lower rate given potential capacity 
limitations in Arnhem.
We now have a total of 56 Accoya distributor, 
supply and agency agreements in place 
covering most of Europe, Australia, Canada, 
Chile, China, India, Israel, Mexico, Morocco, 
New Zealand, South Africa, parts of 
South-East Asia and the USA.
We implemented an approximate 5% price 
increase for our Accoya customers during the 
third quarter of the financial year which will 
continue to improve our margins on a 
comparable basis in the first half of the new 
financial year. We increased prices as a result 
of the overall state of the market, to help 
offset some increase in raw material prices 
but primarily due to our ambition to achieve 
overall profitability. We will continue to adjust 
our prices when the market allows and taking 
into account our goal for long term sales 
growth and other changes to our cost base.  
Accoya manufacturing plant increases 
capacity and profitability 
33,483m
3
 of Accoya wood was sold in the 
year, a 32% increase compared to last year 
and a 149% increase compared to two years 
ago. The higher volumes resulted in improved 
economies of scale, which together with the 
price increases, helped the manufacturing 
gross margin improve from 20% to 25% and 
in turn, the manufacturing segment EBITDA 
to increase by 188% to €6.9m (2014: €2.4m). 
This improvement is despite a 33% increase 
in the proportion of the material sold to 
Medite, which achieved a lower margin.
The 34,156m
3
 of Accoya produced in the year 
represents a 42% increase compared to last 
year and a 282% increase compared to three 
years ago. The improvement in volume was 
again achieved by improving our capacity and 
efficiency, and optimising our existing 
processes and equipment without the need 
of significant capital investment, and only a 
limited increase in headcount whilst 
simultaneously maintaining our quality 
control, and health and safety processes. For 
example, our production cycle time has 
reduced by approximately 30% over the last 
year which in turn has contributed to our 
actual capacity now being in excess of 
40,000m
3
 per annum. 
We continue to believe the manufacturing 
plant provides an illustration of the possible 
returns which can be achieved when 
producing Accoya on a larger scale. We 
expect the economies of scale resulting from 
operating near full capacity, or those 
achievable from production at even greater 
volumes, to result in a gross manufacturing 
margin exceeding the 27% which was 
recorded in the second half of the financial 
year. 
We will continue to implement additional 
improvements to optimise the process and 
increase the capacity of the plant. While such 
increases in the capacity of the existing two 
acetylation reactors in Arnhem are likely to 
be incremental we are exploring further 
options to increase production. Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015 7
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Case study 
Designed by Camillo Botticini Architetto, Accoya® was selected to fulfil the owner’s 
requirement for an eco-friendly property.
Accoya was used for the for cladding and was chosen because it is one of the most durable  
and stable products on the market.
While the design of the property was to be architecturally expressive and impactful, a building 
material such as Accoya offered an opportunity to build something which had little impact  
on the environment and would help it to blend in. Accoya works both by supporting the 
environmental objectives of the build, while also providing a strong, superior cladding which  
is able to withstand wet winters and hot summers with little maintenance compared to 
alternative products. Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015 8
Chief Executive’s Report continued
Case study 
Home to the 26th President of the United States, Theodore 
Roosevelt, the Sagamore Hill National Historic Site is 
undergoing a three-year, $7.2 million rehabilitation project, 
including upgrades to the mechanical and electrical systems 
and lighting, as well as restoration of historic windows, doors, 
siding and porches to historic preservation standards.
Often referred to as the “Summer White House,” where 
President Roosevelt would host VIPs from the US and the 
world during his presidency, the Queen Anne-style home has 
undergone a patchwork of renovation projects over the years. 
The current rehabilitation is aimed at avoiding ongoing smaller 
scale site work in the future.
For replacement of the impressive wraparound porch, the 
National Park Service (NPS) selected Accoya wood, a Cradle to 
Cradle-certified material that is durable and stable, and is 
guaranteed against rot and decay for 50 years in exterior use. 
In addition, Accoya does not shrink or swell, making it an ideal 
material for such an exterior application. “In caring for such an 
important property, we needed to ensure that we used the 
highest quality, environmentally friendly products that were 
sympathetic to the environment,” said Susan Sarna, museum 
curator for the NPS. “In addition, given the negative impact 
that renovation works have on visitor experience, we wanted 
to use a product that would allow us to reduce ongoing 
maintenance at the site.”
Solvay progressing with plant
Progress has been made with Solvay over the 
course of the financial year, following the 
Accoya wood licence agreement becoming 
fully effective in December 2013. The licence 
agreement grants Solvay exclusive rights for 
a minimum 15 years to produce and to sell 
Accoya within the Council of Europe 
(excluding UK, Ireland and Benelux) from an 
initial plant.
In November 2014 Solvay confirmed it was 
progressing to the next stage of the 
preparation of their Accoya plant and has 
since completed the clearance of the 
prospective Freiburg site, engaged a leading 
engineering, procurement and construction 
management contractor for the project and 
orders have been placed for key equipment. 
In December 2014 we entered into a 
conditional Accoya Marketing Agreement 
under which Accsys is carrying out agreed 
targeted marketing activities outside of 
Europe. Solvay will fund the agreed activities 
which are initially focussing on North America 
and have made a non-refundable pre-
payment of €2m with €0.7m of this having 
been recognised as revenue in the period. In 
addition Accsys is carrying out certain 
marketing activities on behalf of Solvay in 
Europe which includes work with major new 
manufacturers and retailers.
The continuation of the Accoya Marketing 
Agreement outside of the Council of Europe 
is conditional on Solvay and Accsys 
completing full agreements in respect of 
further global cooperation for which 
discussions are ongoing. 
During the financial year, Accoya revenue in 
respect of the region under Solvay’s licence 
has increased by 56%.
Tricoya project takes a major 
step forward
In March 2015 we made a number of key 
changes in respect of Tricoya Technologies 
Limited ('TTL') and the Tricoya project,  
central to which was the agreement of a 
Memorandum of Understanding ('MOU') with 
a large international chemical group (the 
'Chemical Group') to replace our joint venture 
partner, Ineos. 
The changes are expected to optimise our 
participation in the building and operation of 
the world’s first Tricoya wood elements 
acetylation plant, including allowing Accsys 
to derive revenue from both licensing and 
manufacturing in the future.  Accsys Technologies PLC  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015 9
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
We also acquired the 50% share in TTL 
previously owned by Ineos, giving Accsys 
100% ownership and control of TTL until a 
new ownership structure is established. We 
are now in detailed discussions with other 
parties which are expected to lead to the 
creation of a new consortium, including the 
Chemical Group, to fund, build and then 
operate the Tricoya production plant.
Accsys and the Chemical Group are now 
jointly undertaking a detailed site feasibility 
review to examine whether the plant should 
be optimally located on one of the Chemical 
Group’s existing sites. This feasibility review 
and related detailed study and engineering 
work are expected to be completed by the 
end of 2015 with the plant expected to be 
operational by the end of 2017. The Chemical 
Group is contributing both financial and 
technical support during this period.
Medite, our founding Tricoya joint 
development partner, also confirmed its 
interest in participating in the new 
consortium and ongoing engagement with 
TTL to realise Tricoya’s® full potential. It is 
anticipated Medite will remain a key partner 
in respect of the Tricoya production plant 
which is expected to replace Medite’s own 
Tricoya production plant in Ireland under their 
existing joint development, production and 
distribution licence agreement with TTL.
Following Accsys acquiring Ineos’s share in 
TTL and Ineos relinquishing its obligations as 
a TTL shareholder, Ineos is continuing to 
provide key engineering and technical 
personnel to TTL on a contractual basis in 
the near term. As a result of the agreement 
with Ineos, TTL is fully consolidated by 
Accsys as at 31 March 2015.
The above changes have been made at the 
end of a year that has seen sales of Medite 
Tricoya increased by approximately 73% 
compared to the year before. Growth was 
across Medite’s key markets and being used 
in façade cladding, siding, trim, outdoor 
furniture and wet interior applications. In 
addition to the business developing through 
distributors, growth was also realised with 
industrial customers, such as producers of 
exterior doors.
Intellectual property 
Accsys has considerably increased its number 
of pending patent applications in the recent 
period by expanding its patent families to 19, 
including those relating to Tricoya. 
Applications filed now number 1 57 , filed in 50 
countries. To date 27 patents have been 
granted in various countries throughout the 
world.
Our principal trademark portfolio remains 
unchanged with our brands Accoya®, 
Tricoya®, the Trimarque Device and Accsys®, 
including transliterations in Arabic, Chinese 
and Japanese, protected by registration in 56 
countries.
The Company’s patents and trademarks 
cover the products we and our distributors 
and licensees sell, and the processes by 
which these products are made, throughout 
the world. 
In addition to Accsys’s extensive patent and 
trade-mark portfolio, the Company continues 
to invest in the generation and protection of 
valuable know-how and confidential 
information relating to its products and 
processes, protected by way of 
confidentiality protocols and contractual 
agreements.
Diamond Wood
The arbitration proceedings concerning our 
dispute with Diamond Wood were concluded 
in the period resulting in an exceptional cost 
of €2.9m (2014: €0.7m). We sought to 
terminate our licence agreement with 
Diamond Wood in 2013, following legal advice 
that they were in breach of contract however 
the tribunal concluded that the licence 
agreement should continue. 
As a result, we have recommenced our 
working relationship with Diamond Wood and 
they remain obliged to resume endeavours 
towards the construction of an Accoya plant 
in the Far East, together with the promotion, 
marketing and selling of Accoya to customers 
in China and the Far East. We continue to 
believe that the China and South-East Asia 
region offers substantial opportunities for 
Accoya in the long term.
Outlook
The excellent progress made over the last 
year has left us in a very strong position to 
take advantage of the opportunities we now 
face and the Group is well equipped to build 
on its achievements to date as we enter the 
next phase of our development. In the 
medium term, we face a period which 
presents new challenges as we seek to 
ensure that the increasing demand can be 
met in advance of new manufacturing 
facilities commencing operation. We will also 
continue to develop our relationship with the 
acetyls industry.
We will continue to invest in the longer term 
as I remain confident that the overall 
opportunity for our products and 
technologies remains substantial. We have 
successfully demonstrated how to 
commercialise Accoya and will increasingly 
focus on how to extract the maximum value 
from our combined assets including through 
directly exploiting our IP, maximising our 
involvement in the manufacturing and 
through the wider experience and knowledge 
we have developed and believe is unique in 
the industry.
The new financial year has started well with 
further growth in Accoya sales. We expect to 
be cash-flow positive over the year ahead as 
we look towards the next key milestone in 
our development. I am confident that our 
overall position is stronger than at any point 
in our history and I am excited about our long 
term growth prospects.
Paul Clegg
Chief Executive Officer
15 June 2015
