 6
Access Intelligence Plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2015  |  Stock Code: ACC
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to announce our results for the year ended 30 November 2015.
2015 has been a pivotal year for Access Intelligence, during which we restructured our portfolio around our reputation 
and risk management software interests though a series of acquisitions and divestments.
During the year we made a substantial acquisition of the UK operations of Cision UK Ltd and Vocus UK Ltd. This 
acquisition, combined with our existing reputation business significantly strengthens our position in the reputation 
management space.
Our strategic focus on reputation and risk management software also prompted the divestment of the software 
maintenance and hosting business Willow Starcom Ltd and, more recently in 2016, the e-procurement solution provider 
Due North Ltd. 
Outlook
The current global political, economic and business climate continues to reinforce the importance of effective reputation 
and risk management, and, moreover, the interdependence of the two.   
Organisations in both regulated and non-regulated environments recognise the importance of bringing highly flexible, 
domain-driven software and responsive business analytics to bear on building and safeguarding reputation through 
both responsible, compliant operations and effective communication. It is therefore essential that we continue to invest 
in innovative research and development to unify the position of our products in the market and to make our software 
synonymous with customer success. 
We are excited about the acquisition and development of the reputation management business. The media and 
communications environment has been subject to dramatic change in recent years, and as such our software is 
increasingly relevant, with customers seeking to influence multiple stakeholders in support of tangible operational 
success. We expect our strengthened product suite to drive greater market share as we build on the momentum post-
acquisition.
I would like to take this opportunity on behalf of the Board to thank you for your continued support of Access Intelligence.
M Jackson 
Chairman
8 April 2016
