 accesso Technology Group plc 
5 
 
Chairman s statement 
 
A bolder, bigger and better accesso 
 
2015 has been another year to remember for accesso. Our industry continues to change at a rapid pace, but new challenges have 
been met and overcome, and new opportunities have been seized. The measure of our response to these challenges is reflected 
not only in our financial performance, but also in the quality of our reputation which continues to grow. Our efforts have taken 
us from a helpful supplier, and transformed the Group into a trusted, talented and innovative partner.  
 
The Group s financial performance has been strong this year, achieving adjusted operating profit of $12.6m. We have further 
integrated our acquisitions, cross-sold between business lines and grown our revenues, profits and earnings per share. We 
continue to deepen our presence within our existing customer base, renewing numerous contracts, often incorporating added 
services and extended terms. We share a belief with our clients that outstanding customer experience is the key to success and 
are as committed as ever to providing them with the most sophisticated technology solutions in pursuit of that aim.  
 
During the year we have also advanced our progress in new strategic areas for the Group.  Sports stadia, museums and cultural 
sites have joined our more traditional attractions and snow sports clients in increasing number, proving the value of the 
acquisitions we have made. We have always sought to recognise the commonalities rather than the differences among the venues 
we serve, and this approach has enabled us to develop solutions for numerous vendors with varying requirements, all of which 
strengthen our brand and increase our market opportunity.  
 
A trusted partner 
 
In 2015 we have deepened our relationships with many of the leading players in our industry. In particular, our important 
agreement with Merlin reflects a level of confidence and trust in accesso that marks a significant inflection point in the Group s 
history. We have worked hard to build a company with a particular set of values, which can grow with its clients and share in their 
successes. This deal, as well as the extensions of our existing agreements with Cedar Fair Entertainment and post period-end with 
Six Flags Entertainment, prove the effectiveness of this approach, and gathered together suggest a watershed moment has been 
reached. 
 
I have said before that perhaps the strongest signal of our strength is the success of the customers we serve. We can be proud of 
the trust they have placed in us, and of the fact that our technology is an important constituent of their success. 
 
Investing in execution and innovation 
 
Our challenge now is to extend the market leadership position we hold. Knowing that the longevity of our business is determined 
by the quality of the technology we sell, we remain committed to upgrading the core functionality of our products on an ongoing 
basis. We continue to invest heavily in the business to ensure we stay ahead of our competition, and while our landmark 
agreement with Merlin Entertainments has provided the impetus for a significant scaling of our operations, we have no intention 
of pausing in our ambition to remain the very best technology vendor to the markets we serve.  
 
Our team 
 
Results like those presented here are not achieved without hard work.  In every area of our business, our teams have worked 
tirelessly this year on some of the biggest projects in the organisation s history.  They have risen to those tasks and delivered an 
outstanding result.  On behalf of the entire Board I say thank you to them.  I would also like to add my personal thanks to Leonard 
Sim who leaves our Board today.  Leonard has not only played a key role in developing our firm, but can also proudly claim to be 
one of the original architects of virtual queuing and the industry we now lead.  
 
Looking ahead 
 
We have entered 2016 with something of a spring in our step. With some significant successes under our belt and a clear idea of 
where our focus this year needs to rest, I look forward to the coming year with confidence.  
 
 
John Weston 
Non-Executive Chairman  
  
