 accesso Technology Group plc 
6 
 
Chief Executive Officer s statement 
 
Operational Review 
 
For some time now, accesso has been pursuing a strategy to deliver sustainable, repeatable revenue growth through both 
acquisitive and organic means. During 2015, we saw accesso s balanced, diverse and complementary portfolio of businesses 
continue to mature as one company, and continue to deliver on the promise that first drove its composition.  
 
Behind the scenes there has been a great deal of time spent harmonising the systems, processes and day-to-day procedures that 
we rely on to run our business.  Our approach to integrating acquisitions, where we carefully get to know our new colleagues, 
their technology and customers over time before implementing change, continues to pay off and we now have a business which 
relies on the best practice we can find across all of our antecedents.  I believe that the feeling of one company is an important 
one.  It allows us to stand a little taller, think a little bigger and importantly invest a little more deeply to ensure we maintain and 
extend our leading market position. 
 
A key reference point for this was the July 2015 agreement with Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd.  To be trusted to serve a 
business of Merlin s global scale is a particular honour and one which the whole company is proud of, and working hard to deliver. 
All accesso clients, current and future, will feel the benefit of those efforts as we improve our ability to serve new markets, 
countries and languages together with their rapidly evolving consumer demands. 
 
But we are not finished yet. The Group continues to challenge itself and develop its technological expertise. We continue to trial 
our queueing technology for entirely queueless parks, and constantly evaluate our portfolio to ensure we can deliver the best 
available solutions to our customers and their guests. Now, as we start not just a new year but a new decade with Six Flags, our 
focus on innovation and execution will grow even sharper still.   
 
accesso LoQueue 
 
This year has been a successful one for our queueing products with total guest revenue up 16.6% year-on-year.  A number of 
factors helped this, not least good weather helping to deliver strong attendance growth. Other key value drivers have been the 
work we have done on pricing, staff training and the in-park retail experience for guests.  Our pricing strategy has shifted the 
revenue mix making the product entry price point more attractive whilst increasing premium pricing. This has delivered strong 
overall growth while reducing reliance on premium product sales which fell as a proportion of total sales. We have also continued 
to experiment with more demand led pricing based on expected attendance. 
 
Notable other events in the year included the formalisation of our Memorandum of Understanding with the Movie Animation 
Park Studios (MAPS) in Malaysia for the use of Qsmart
sm
, and the installation of our Qbot
sm
 solution at LEGOLAND California. The 
MAPS agreement will go live later in 2016, and take accesso LoQueue into the important Asian market for the first time.   
 
accesso LoQueue s success in 2015 demonstrates its ongoing value to the Group. With an increasing focus on the cross-and 
upselling opportunities that exist within accesso, our queuing solutions continue to provide a key entry-point and a firm 
foundation from which we can offer more comprehensive services to our clients.   
 
accesso Passport 
 
2015 has also been strong for accesso Passport, which continues to emerge as the market leading cloud-based general admission 
ticketing platform.  Our entirely revamped Shopland 5.0 platform has delivered significant new business to the Group and proven 
our ability not just to capitalise on the mobile opportunity but to actually help shape how mobile commerce in all of our markets 
is evolving. 
 
We believe that having a world class ecommerce capability is increasingly important for all of our customers. To be able to 
appropriately cross and upsell products to consumers whilst they shop is vital to maximise the revenue opportunity in any single 
customer interaction. We also know that the best way to engage with guests is to ensure the shopping experience is customer-
centric: they must be able to shop in comfort, in their own time, and on any device they choose. With these factors in mind, we 
have developed a one-of-a-kind solution designed with mobile customers at its centre and it is that expertise which is at the heart 
of our accelerating growth.  
 
The impact of this approach can be seen in the increasing number of transactions taking place in the accesso Passport ecosystem 
each year. In 2015, ticketing volumes were up 20.5% year-on-year, while mobile volumes increased 159% year-on-year and now   accesso Technology Group plc 
7 
 
Chief Executive Officer s statement (continued) 
 
represent 24% of our total (2014: 11%). These figures reflect accesso Passport s ability to create significant value for operators, 
which then flows through to the Group as a result of our transaction based business model.  
 
That promise of value continues to generate new business for the Group, with a number of significant contracts signed in the 
year. Key moments included an agreement with the One World Observatory at the newly opened One World Trade Centre in 
New York City, as well as three-year agreements with both Chicago s Navy Pier and Tennessee s Nashville Zoo at Grassmere. In 
March, we were also able to announce a three-year extension to our existing agreement with Cedar Fair Entertainment, another 
of accesso s long-term partners and one of the world s largest attractions operators, each of whom contribute to the significant 
underpinning of our forward revenue visibility. Our ability to generate and sustain these durable relationships is a mark of the 
quality of our products and their central place in our customers operations.  
 
Lastly, this year has seen the start of our Merlin rollout, as we begin the process of installing accesso Passport across Merlin s 
global estate. This will see accesso expand into new geographies and scale rapidly, benefitting from a year of investment in the 
operational capacity of our business. To date we have installed at nearly thirty venues, mostly in the United States and London 
with pleasing early feedback.  2016 will see us install widely across Europe, Australia and New Zealand, to be followed in 2017 by 
their Asian locations.   
  
accesso Siriusware 
 
2015 was also a landmark year for accesso Siriusware, achieving thirteen new contract wins in the period for its enhanced point-
of-sale and guest management software and delivering on the promise at the time of its acquisition of stepping in to the European 
marketplace. Financial performance was equally as impressive, with a significant improvement in contribution achieved since the 
acquisition in late 2013. 
 
The variety of those thirteen contract wins underscores accesso Siriusware s versatility, winning business in areas as diverse as 
the Taos Ski Valley resort, the Brooklyn Museum of Art, the Black Ball Ferry Line and The Whitney Museum now located in its 
impressive new headquarters in New York City. Each of these operators has a very different attraction proposition  but for all of 
that diversity, there is a common need that all of them share which is the need to provide a high-quality user experience to 
guests. Using accesso Siriusware, they can achieve this by tracking guest rentals, purchases, reservations, loyalty information and 
much more using its customisable modular software solutions. 
 
During the year, Blackpool Pleasure Beach also became accesso Siriusware s first European client, adopting the service as part of 
the contract that also extended its agreement to utilise accesso s queueing solutions. This sale marked an important 
strengthening of accesso s relationship with an historic UK venue, and is a useful example of our portfolio s complementary 
nature. Deals of this nature embed accesso at the heart of a venue s operations, and exemplify the Group s ability to maximise 
existing opportunities as well as capitalise on new ones.  We have also continued to invest in the product, making some significant 
functional enhancements and expanding API capabilities allowing deeper integration with accesso Passport. 
 
accesso ShoWare 
 
2015 was ShoWare s first full year as a part of accesso. Having bedded down quickly and proven its ability to generate 
transactional and repeatable revenue for the Group, performance was in line with expectations despite challenging currency 
dynamics in Brazil and in Mexico where the business performed particularly strongly. 
 
Now fully integrated into the Group, ShoWare is helping accesso address a large market of assigned-seat venues in previously 
untapped geographies and verticals.  The ShoWare platform allows venues to manage all aspects of their advanced ticket sales, 
with options for call centre ticket sales, mobile ticketing, online ticketing and social ticket sales through Facebook pages. Unlike 
accesso Passport, ShoWare is operated by vendors themselves, allowing them the flexibility and control to maximize profits in 
the way that suits them best.  During the year, ShoWare continued to invest heavily in the platform with notable firsts like the 
launch of a fully responsive shopping cart. 
 
Importantly, 2015 has seen ShoWare prove itself capable of rapidly acquiring new contracts, with 68 announced in the year. 
New clients crossed a number of verticals but range from the Hard Rock Casino in Lake Tahoe to an existing Siriusware 
customer, Longwood Gardens, now also using ShoWare, to selling out concerts for Rod Stewart and Ed Sheeran in Brazil. 
 
  accesso Technology Group plc 
8 
 
Chief Executive Officer s statement (continued) 
 
This level of client acquisition demonstrates both a keen appetite for the solution and the helpful leverage it has gained as part 
of the accesso family.  
 
Starting as we mean to go on 
 
Beyond the period-end, all business lines are showing good momentum. The most notable achievement thus far has been the 
extension to our existing agreement with Six Flags Entertainment Corporation, the world s largest regional theme park 
company, to continue providing our queuing and ecommerce solutions across its parks until 2025. This win is a further example 
of accesso s ability to establish long-term relationships that provide excellent future revenue visibility. The start of the year has 
also seen ShoWare sign 16 new contracts, accesso Siriusware sign four new contracts. 
 
Financial Review 
 
These results represent another good year for accesso, notwithstanding the significant investment made in the first half ahead 
of our securing the Merlin contract. We have delivered performance comfortably in line with expectations, and look forward to 
another strong year in 2016.  
 
Key financial metrics 
 
2015 was the year in which accesso began to see the dual-benefit of its diversified geographical footprint and versatile product 
portfolio. Weather conditions were generally better than last year, but the increasingly global nature of our business and its 
capacity to serve a wider variety of venues provides a degree of balance that increases robustness across the seasons.  
 
Revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015 of $93.2m increased by $18.1m (24.1%) when compared to the 12 month 
period ended 31 December 2014 and benefited from a full 12 months of Showare revenues (2014: One month) combined with 
good organic growth. Gross profit margin at 49.4% in 2015, compared to 42.6% in 2014, principally reflecting the increased 
proportion of higher margin ticketing revenue in 2015.  
 
Administrative expenses in the business, ignoring share based payments and amortisation related to the acquisitions, were 
$33.6m in the 12 months ended 31 December 2015, which represented an increase of 41% on 2014. This included a full year of 
Showare expenditure but also demonstrates the significant investment in our development and customer facing teams 
throughout the year in anticipation of new business growth and in particular related to the Merlin agreement. 
 
Adjusted operating profit, which the board considers a key underlying metric, for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015 was 
$12.6m and this equates to 44.8% growth when compared to the 12 month period ended 31 December 2014. 
 
Profit before tax of $7.2m increased by $2.1m from $5.1m (41.2%) on the 12 month period ended 31 December 2014.  
 
Earnings per share (basic) at 24.47 cents for 2015 increased by 5.98 cents (32.3%) on the 12 months ended 31 December 2014. 
 
These results reflect the manifestation of a mature and well-aligned Group, deriving profitability from supportive businesses 
offering distinct but related services to complementary markets. The majority of revenues and expenditure continue to be US 
dollar denominated and the impact of currency movements on revenues or profit before tax is not material.  
 
Debt refinancing and cash flow 
 
To prepare the Group for the next stage in its development we renewed and extended our banking facility with Lloyds Bank on 
14 March 2016. The extended facility allows the Group a drawdown facility of $25m, with no step downs, plus an additional $10m 
for potential M&A investments, at an improved drawdown rate of 1.35% above LIBOR and an improved commitment rate. The 
renewed facility terminates on 14 March 2019 with the possibility for this to extend for a further 12 months. 
 
Cash generated from operations at $14.7m for the 12 months ended 31 December 2015 was 37.4% better than the 12 month 
period ended 31 December 2014 and represents a cash conversion from adjusted EBITDA of 96.7% (2014: 97.3%). 
 
Purchases of intangible fixed assets, which substantially represents capitalised development expenditure, was $6.2m in the 
period (2014: $2.7m) and reflected a full year of Showare expenditure together with significant investments across our product   accesso Technology Group plc 
9 
 
Chief Executive Officer s statement (continued) 
 
portfolio as we look to support global deployment and enhancement of our mobile offering. We see product investment as key 
to remaining innovative and market leading and do not expect expenditure on development to reduce in 2016. 
 
Other fixed asset additions at $1.8m (2014: $0.8m) increased principally due to the installation of our Qbot
sm
 solution at 
LEGOLAND California and further enhancement s to the accesso LoQueue in-park retail locations at specific locations. 
 
Our closing net debt balance of $9.4m (2014: $14.3m) represents 62% (2014: 130%) of current year adjusted EBITDA, was ahead 
of our expectations, notwithstanding the increased product investment and the board believes that the company remains in a 
strong financial position at the period end. 
 
Tax 
 
When we announced our interim results, we indicated an underlying annual effective rate of 28%. The full year rate at 25.6% is 
in line with this guidance and includes a 2% benefit in respect of 2014.  
 
The Group continues to review and implement opportunities for maintaining or lowering its effective rate, while mindful of the 
fact that the majority of taxable income will continue to be generated in markets with significantly higher headline tax rates than 
the UK. 
 
Dividend 
 
The Board maintains its view that the payment of a dividend is unlikely in the short to medium term with cash better invested in 
product development and complementary M&A. 
 
IP Protection 
 
The Group continues to seek opportunities to make best use of its intellectual property. As announced during the period, we 
have appointed Dominion Harbour Group to develop and implement a campaign for an element of the Group s IP portfolio in 
market verticals not served by accesso. We are pleased with the progress made in this area, and remain committed to defending, 
monetising and expanding our IP.  
 
Revenue Visibility 
 
The Group has historically operated via agreements that offer repeatable, transactional revenue streams that fully align us with 
our customers interests. A key element of our M&A activity has been to build on this model, allowing us the luxury of looking 
forward with increasing levels of confidence in our future revenue. While we are clear that these agreements do not formally 
offer guaranteed recurring revenue, the Board gains considerable assurance that our contracted agreements offer growth 
opportunities across their respective terms. 
 
Broadly, we would expect approximately 85% of our full year revenue stream to be repeatable and transactional in nature, with 
a further 6% repeatable from ongoing support agreements with the licensed element of our customer base.  The balance is largely 
unrepeatable in nature and split between custom client work and software license sales. 
 
This combined with the long term nature of many newly signed or extended agreements in 2015 and post period end, together 
with a low level of attrition of those customers on shorter term agreements, now allows us to look out several years with 
substantial confidence at our revenue expectations. To put this into context, the Board estimates that contracted arrangements 
already in place with our top 5 customers alone will generate 60% to 70% of total Group revenues, for each respective year, 
through to at least 2022. This clearly allows the opportunity to out-perform future revenue expectations by delivering further 
new business.   
 
Summary and Outlook for 2016 
 
accesso has started 2016 in good order. We have an exciting new business pipeline and can rest assured that the opportunity in 
both ticketing and queuing is significant well beyond our current level of business. Operationally, we continue to develop our 
products to ensure they are ready to meet the challenges of tomorrow.  In 2015 we spent well over ten percent of our Group s 
revenue on their development and would expect the figure to be similar in 2016.  accesso Technology Group plc 
10 
 
Chief Executive Officer s statement (continued) 
 
The success and longevity of that development process is owed largely to an important dynamic within our cloud-based ticketing 
systems, accesso Passport and ShoWare, whereby every customer s unique set of functionality requirements ensures a direct link 
between new customer acquisition and subsequent product improvement. Where new client functionality requirements don t 
already exist within our systems, we incorporate them into our products on a non-exclusive basis so they can be shared by all 
accesso users. This mutually beneficial approach to product development allows us to build exceptionally well specified products 
and, as demonstrated, become a trusted long-term partner for our customers.  
 
Looking ahead, the Board is full of confidence in our prospects for the remainder of 2016. All the necessary elements are now in 
place to accelerate growth; we have the right team, a uniquely differentiated offering and the hunger to make the best of both. 
We are full of belief that the start we ve made will translate into a good year for accesso, extending our lead as the premier 
technology solutions provider to leisure, entertainment and cultural markets.   
 
Tom Burnet 
Chief Executive Officer 
  
