 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
Why does this matter?
Businesses across the world are 
increasingly digital. Digital products and 
services are provided to employees to 
make them more productive whether 
they are in the office, on the road or in 
the home. Likewise, customers interact 
with businesses in an increasingly 
digital way through apps or browsers, 
and from anywhere.
As a result, business leaders are 
realising that they need to take digital 
quality seriously. More specifically, they 
are taking digital experience quality 
seriously.
Why?
Take brand for example. Some 
businesses have spent many years 
and huge resources establishing a 
brand for their physical products (e.g. 
groceries) and services (e.g. hotel 
rooms). Increasingly, customers are 
engaging to procure these products 
and services through a business’ digital 
products such as websites and mobile 
apps. Consequently, customers that 
experience frustration with a business’ 
digital products will be less likely to buy, 
and continued frustration will harm the 
brand.
Like physical products, digital customer 
experience and brand is largely built 
upon design and quality. 
In the digital world, design relates to 
the customer journey – the steps a 
customer must take to conclude a 
bank transaction online, or purchase 
a product, or to order a new driving 
licence, and so on. 
Quality relates to the consistency and 
repeatability of the customer journey. 
If images don’t load, or explanatory 
videos don’t run, or if click-to-talk is 
unintelligible, or forms stop working, 
this is poor digital quality.
Even if the digital design is excellent, 
a variable and inconsistent customer 
journey will wreck customer experience 
and digital brand.
Today, without Actual Experience, 
business leaders have no way to 
manage and improve digital quality.
How come?
In the manufacture of physical products 
and services, business have for 
decades used quality management 
techniques such as Six Sigma, Kaizen 
and others. At the heart of these 
methods is the so-called Voice of the 
Customer. Simply put, customers 
are asked what they think of a 
product, and their feedback is used 
by the manufacturer to improve the 
manufacturing process. Today, most 
manufacturing processes involve global 
supply chains, so the reality is that the 
manufacturer uses the feedback to 
help manage and improve its supply 
chains.
However, in the digital world, these 
quality management techniques cannot 
be used.
Why not?
Simply put, talking to people, asking for 
their feedback, is much too slow. 
In the digital world, the glitches that 
cause videos to freeze, or forms and 
images to stop loading, or audio 
to sound inaudible, happen in tiny 
fractions of a second. They are fleeting 
and transient. Not only that, but they 
occur somewhere in a global digital 
supply chain made up of thousands of 
businesses and technologies. 
Therefore, asking customers what 
they think, even if it could be done 
continuously, is on a completely 
different timescale to the digital world, 
and there is consequently very little 
possibility for correlating customer 
feedback with the underlying cause of 
customer frustration. 
This means that there is no way to 
connect digital experience quality 
with a quality management process 
to improve digital business. This is 
also the explanation for why digital 
experience quality in the home, on the 
phone or in the office is so inconsistent.
ACTUAL EXPERIENCE AT A GLANCE 
Leader and innovator of digital experience quality.
Our patent-pending analytics are the missing link between digital 
experience quality and improvements in the digital business. 
www.actual-experience.com  Stock code: ACT 8
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   8 01/02/2016   12:11:04 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
The growth of digital
Digital revenues will double to 41% by 
2019. A third of CEOs expect to attribute 
more than half their revenues to digital 
within five years. Nearly 50% of all 
business-to-business purchases will be 
made on digital platforms by the end of 
2015 and $2 trillion in retail sales will be 
influenced by digital by 2016. 
T o move in that direction, this year, CEOs 
have technology-related change as a 
top priority, even higher than in 2014. 
Sixty-three per cent of CEOs intend to 
increase IT and digital investment in 2015. 
Research shows that companies have lofty 
ambitions: they expect digital initiatives to 
deliver annual growth and cost efficiencies 
of 5-10% or more in the next three to five 
years.
At the same time, board members at large 
companies estimated that 32% of their 
company’ s revenue would be under threat 
from digital disruption in the next five years; 
60% of board members felt their boards 
should spend significantly more time on this 
issue in 2016. 
Digital quality increasingly will determine 
which companies create or lose valuable 
brand share with their customers, 
members, subscribers, employees, 
contractors, partners and suppliers. 
50%
2015
Business-to-Business purchases made on digital platforms
Six building blocks for creating a high performing digital enterprise, 
McKinsey, 2015
41%
2019
Digital revenue by 2019 
2015 Gartner CEO Survey Committing to Digital
63%
2015
Percentage of CEOs intending to increase digital investment 
2015 Gartner CEO Survey Committing to Digital
9 Actual Experience Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   9 01/02/2016   12:11:04 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
10 www.actual-experience.com  Stock code: ACT
So what do we do?
We provide digital quality analytics to 
businesses that provide digital products 
and services to their customers and 
employees.
Our patent-pending analytics are able 
to link digital experience quality with a 
digital quality improvement process, 
which will help make the digital 
business of our customers better  
and better. 
Continuous quality improvement 
is something that has been taken 
for granted in manufacturing for 
decades. Now it can be applied to the 
manufacturing of digital products and 
services.
How do we do this?
Small pieces of software called Digital 
Users are situated amongst real human 
users in, for example, the home or the 
office. They run on laptops, PCs and 
small devices like Raspberry Pi and 
Intel sticks.
The Digital Users make continuous 
measurements of the most important 
digital products and services that our 
customer provides to its customers 
and employees (applications in 
illustration). The Digital Users 
also simultaneously measure the 
behaviour of the many businesses and 
technologies in our customer’s global 
digital supply chain seeking the glitches 
that impact customer experience. 
The Digital Users immediately send 
the results of these measurements to 
data centres, which host our cloud 
analytics-as-a-service platform.
“CEOs are coming in 
to MIT and saying 
I’m spending so 
much money on IT 
and technology and 
I feel like it’s a black 
hole with nothing 
coming out.”
The value of the customer  
experience quantified
Peter Kriss, HBR
ACTUAL EXPERIENCE AT A GLANCE 
Continued
Digital User (DU) software makes measurements 
(cannot be done from browsers) 
•	 End-to-end
•	 Gently exercises IP network nodes and application layers to understand behaviour in every part of 
user supply chain
•	 Metrics are: network (loss, delay, delay variation); application (goodput, throughput, RTT)
In the data centre
•	 End-to-end measurements are combined in algorithms to calculate End-user Experience score
•	 Algorithms adapt for video, audio, interactive, protocols, etc.
•	 Node/layer behaviour is continuously correlated with Voice of the People variation to establish 
cause and effect 
www.actual-experience.com  Stock code: ACT 10
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   10 01/02/2016   12:11:04 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
11 Actual Experience Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
“One of the hardest  
things we have with 
technology is  
user perception. 
Is it working well?  
Is it not working well?”
Customer 
Our cloud analytics platform transforms 
the measurements of the digital 
product and service into real-time 
digital Voice of the Customer quality 
scores. These scores represent the 
actual experience of a person and act 
as the lens through which we analyse 
the behaviour of the digital supply 
chain.
In our cloud, the Actual Experience 
lens allows us to correlate poor quality 
that frustrates customers or employees 
and harms brand or productivity, with 
the transient, fleeting glitches in the 
supply chain that cause poor quality. 
Since this is done continuously and 
very quickly – in fractions of seconds 
– our analytics are able to locate the 
source of quality problems in the 
numerous businesses and technologies 
of our customers’ global digital supply 
chain and hence provide actionable 
data in order for our customers to:
1.  Reduce the number of quality 
problems by continuously improving 
the performance of the global digital 
supply chain by:
a. more targeted and efficient 
investment; and
b. better management and 
collaboration with their digital 
suppliers.
2. Resolve quality problems within 
  important digital products and 
  services in hours, not days, 
  weeks or months, and do this in a 
  substantially more automated way 
  that reduces cost.
How do customers get their 
analytics?
Our customers buy a service from us 
called Actual Work (formerly Digital 
Supply Chain Director). They access 
the results of the Actual Work service in 
three ways:
1. Through web browsers and mobile  
 apps
2. Via emails for alerting of predefined  
 events or regular reports
3. Via electronic interfaces between  
 the Group’s systems and customer 
  or partner systems.
Who do we do it for?
Actual Experience’s analytics-as-a-
service is of potential use to every 
business in every industry. 
Any business that provides digital 
products and services to its customers 
or employees, or both, will need to 
continuously improve digital quality 
or risk losing out to competitors with 
better digital quality and hence better 
digital brand and productivity.
How do you address such a 
large market?
We will service this vast global market 
primarily through channel partnerships, 
with an important component of 
our business strategy focused on 
building relationships with selected 
direct enterprise customers. These 
relationships continue to accrue 
valuable intelligence on service use by 
business type, department, role, and 
other factors. 
The value derived from our direct 
involvement with customers actively 
consuming this digital experience 
quality data to drive new and improved 
continuous improvement processes is 
realised in our channel relationships, 
where our learned best practices will 
improve the performance of all channel 
partners.
Current customers include channel 
partners Verizon and direct customers 
Condé Nast, Charles Stanley and 
Harrods.
A fundamental component of our 
strategy, particularly for this year, is 
the expansion of our customer-facing 
teams in the US and the UK. This 
is an important use of the £15.2m 
investment in June 2015. Global 
coordination of these activities will be 
considerably enhanced by our recent 
addition of Robin Young as COO. 
11 Actual Experience Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   11 01/02/2016   12:11:04
