 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
3 Actual Experience Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
Introduction
I am proud to present Actual 
Experience’s full-year results for the 
year ending 30 September 2015. While 
the financial results show growth, with 
revenues increasing by 23% to £0.7m 
(2014: £0.57m), the real success of 
the year was the progress made in our 
commercial relationships with major 
channel partners, including the signing 
of two important contracts which we 
believe will lead to a significant increase 
in revenue growth.
Actual Experience’s analytics are the 
missing link between digital experience 
quality and improvements in digital 
businesses. The analytics show the 
actual experience of the end-user 
in a way that has never been done 
before. This enables our customers 
to focus their resources on achieving 
consistent digital quality and improving 
business performance. The potential 
impacts are cost savings, reduction in 
lost customer revenues and improved 
brand experience. We are proud to 
be leading what could become one 
of the biggest sectors of the digital 
marketplace. 
The operational and commercial 
progress achieved in 2015 has left 
Actual Experience well positioned 
for the future. It has been a year 
characterised by a transition from  
start-up to a more structured 
organisation which will be better 
positioned to support our planned 
global growth. Following years of 
selling, testing, proving and evaluation, 
we signed our largest contracts to 
date with two global businesses. 
Actual Experience  is now deploying 
its technology to analyse digital quality 
for a range of products and services 
both within their respective businesses 
and to their extensive customer 
networks. These represent significant 
revenue opportunities and serve as 
a compelling validation of our unique 
methodology of digital quality analysis. 
In addition to the two contracts signed 
during the year, there are other channel 
partner opportunities in development 
with some of the world’s largest 
technology and service companies. 
Combined, these opportunities have 
the potential to place us in front 
of many thousands of large global 
enterprise customers. 
An opportunity of this scale requires 
strong operational infrastructure 
including the establishment of a robust 
around-the-clock global support 
capability, as well as an expanded 
sales and marketing presence and the 
further development of our technology, 
particularly into the mobile arena. To 
fund that investment we raised £15.2 
million, before expenses, in June 2015 
and have been pleased by the positive 
response displayed by the investment 
community.
Board
I am delighted that Robin Young has 
agreed to join the executive team as 
Chief Operations Officer; his extensive 
experience will be invaluable as we 
rapidly build our business. Robin will 
remain on the Board, as an Executive 
Director. We are in the process of 
appointing a new Non-executive 
Director and expect to announce 
further details in the near future.
Outlook
While we have taken many important 
steps on the path to building a world-
class technology leader, there remains 
much to be achieved. We are confident 
of further progress in the year ahead as 
we move through to the next stages of 
commercialisation. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank all shareholders, customers 
and employees that have supported 
Actual Experience and who have played 
an integral part in the Company’s 
successes to date. Actual Experience’s 
journey is only just beginning and I 
look forward to the business fulfilling its 
considerable potential.
STEPHEN DAVIDSON 
CHAIRMAN 
12 January 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
Stephen Davidson
STRATEGIC REPORT
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   3 01/02/2016   12:10:58
