 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
“Actual Experience’s 
market opportunity is vast 
and growing and we have 
put in place many of the 
building blocks needed to 
capitalise on this.”
www.actual-experience.com  Stock code: ACT 4
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   4 01/02/2016   12:11:01 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Dave Page
5 Actual Experience Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
Introduction
This year has been one of significant 
achievement for Actual Experience. 
Since our beginning in 2009 we have 
been developing our unique digital 
quality analytics and network of our 
channel partners. We are confident that 
Actual Experience has an innovation 
that has the potential to transform the 
quality of the digital world. 
As a young company, with a very large 
commercial opportunity, we soon 
realised that the most effective way to 
take our technology to market would 
be by working with businesses that 
have an established global base of 
customers. Proving the potential of 
our technology to channel partners 
and building our technology into their 
global distribution processes are 
naturally time-consuming. This year 
we signed our first two agreements 
with channel partners. The first is 
with a major organisation, listed in 
the top 100 of Forbes’ Most Valuable 
Brands. The second is with Verizon 
Enterprise Services, one of the 
world’s leading communications 
businesses, who will be building our 
technology into one of their global 
service offerings. These agreements 
provide a compelling validation of both 
our technology and our strategy. Our 
focus in the year ahead is to begin to 
realise the potential of these initiatives 
and establish additional, similar 
relationships.
With increasing evidence of channel 
engagement, the Group is now 
focused on execution. The funds raised 
in June 2015 are being invested in 
resources that can effectively support 
our channel partners and customers 
anywhere in the world. Headcount has 
been increased  in both the US and the 
UK and, for the first time, a significant 
investment is being made in marketing 
and brand to ensure that our offering is 
properly understood.
Market opportunity
The basis of Actual Experience’s 
market opportunity is the continuing 
rapid growth of the digital world. A third 
of CEOs expect to attribute more than 
half their revenues to digital operations 
within five years,
1
 and nearly 50% of 
all business-to-business purchases 
will be made on digital platforms by 
the end of 2015, with $2 trillion in retail 
sales generated by digital sales and 
marketing platforms by 2016.
2
As the digital world has matured and 
become fully integrated into business 
and society, we believe that quality is 
becoming as significant to users of 
digital products and services as it is to 
businesses and consumers in the non-
digital world. Digital quality increasingly 
will determine which companies create 
or lose valuable brand share. 
Successful businesses have long been 
aware of the need to consistently 
improve the performance of their 
non-digital supply chains and are 
now committing greater resources 
to solutions for managing their 
increasingly complex digital supply 
chains. This creates a vast opportunity 
for Actual Experience. 
The requirement to give workers and 
customers a consistent high-quality 
experience is paramount for digital 
brand leaders and Actual Experience 
has the solutions to meet their needs.
Strategy
Actual Experience’s analytics as a 
service has the potential to benefit the 
digital business of all organisations 
globally. We will service the global 
business markets primarily through 
channel partners, but will maintain 
select direct customer engagements. 
Channel 
Most Group revenues to date have 
been achieved through direct sales 
activities. However, we believe that 
the market is so sizeable that it can 
only be addressed efficiently through 
relationships with large channel 
partners, leveraging their global 
footprint and sales teams. Over the 
coming years, we expect channel 
business to comprise a significant 
portion of our revenue. To this end, we 
have invested considerable resources 
in nurturing channel opportunities over 
the last four years. 
1 
BCG: The Internet Economy in the G-20, 2012.
2 
Six building blocks for creating a high-performing digital enterprise, McKinsey, 2015.
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   5 01/02/2016   12:11:03 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
www.actual-experience.com  Stock code: ACT 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Continued
Direct
Providing our services directly to well-
known global brands achieves two 
important goals for Actual Experience. 
First, it helps to build awareness and 
know-how. Second, it demonstrates 
to potential channel partners the 
commercial interest and enthusiasm for 
our unique service offerings.
Consumer
Similarly, it is strategically important 
to continue to develop our consumer 
offering, Actual Home. Across the 
world, governments are increasingly 
focused on policies to harness the 
social and economic benefits of digital 
inclusion and competitiveness. We are 
able to show how fit for purpose any 
national digital infrastructure is and 
consequently where policy must focus 
to correct for any market failure.
This parallel investment by Actual 
Experience in understanding the 
consumers’ experience of digital quality 
has a positive impact on business 
opportunities and will ultimately offer 
Actual Experience an unparalleled view 
of digital quality globally. 
The continuous improvement of our 
technology and the market reach 
from global channels provides Actual 
Experience with compelling market 
potential. We believe the Group is 
well placed to establish long-term 
leadership in the business-critical 
market for the management of digital 
quality. 
Customer highlights
Top 100 global brand 
In May 2015, we were delighted to 
sign a significant three-year contract 
with a major global organisation. Actual 
Experience will continuously analyse 
the organisation’s global digital supply 
chains to ensure that the quality of 
products delivered to end-customers is 
always visible to business leaders and 
that their customers’ digital experience 
can be improved. 
Verizon Enterprise Solutions
We announced in September 2015 
the signing of a three-year contract to 
supply services to Verizon Enterprise 
Solutions, the division of Verizon that 
delivers communication services 
to businesses and government. 
Actual Experience now forms part of 
Verizon’s enhanced managed service 
reporting capabilities, and is being 
actively promoted by Verizon to their 
customers worldwide. The service was 
soft launched in December 2015 and 
represents the largest potential roll-out 
of the Group’s analytics service to date. 
We have begun to see Verizon account 
teams request information about 
the service for their own customers 
and expect this to have a significant 
positive impact on revenues in the 
years ahead.
Ofcom
We are pleased to have made positive,  
early progress with Ofcom, where our 
crowd-sourced data, enabled by the 
Actual Home (formerly BbFix) project, 
has been used to analyse the digital 
economy of Britain. The result of this 
early work was the publication of 
Ofcom’s ‘State of the Nation’ report 
which highlighted our key findings, 
namely that digital quality is not solely 
dependent on speed but is affected 
by a number of additional factors 
that occur across the UK’s national 
digital supply chains. This successful 
project confirms that our digital quality 
analytics can be leveraged equally by 
governments and businesses.
Fundraise and expansion of 
operations
We were delighted to successfully 
complete a placing in June 2015, 
raising gross proceeds of £15.2m. The 
funds were raised for investing across 
the business as well as strengthening 
our balance sheet and funding the 
Group’s working capital requirements 
for the foreseeable future.
Expansion of our sales team and 
channel support
The funds raised have enabled us to 
grow client-facing teams in the UK and 
US, including channel development 
and support. 
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   6 01/02/2016   12:11:03 24357.04    1 February 2016 6:24 AM    PROOF 14
7 Actual Experience Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
Investment in our technology
We have been able to significantly 
increase the size and skill base of our 
technology development team. The 
technical capabilities and features 
demanded by our target market are 
rapidly evolving, in particular with 
regard to trends in corporate adoption 
of mobile computing platforms. This 
year we have rolled out an update to 
our Analytics-as-a-Service business 
offering. It simplifies use and puts 
digital quality into the pockets of 
business leaders on mobile phones. 
Alongside increasing channel 
engagement, we are increasing our 
focus on data-centre scaling and 
security matters. 
Strengthening our operational 
team
We were delighted to announce in 
early October 2015 the appointment 
of Robin Young, previously a Non-
executive Director of the Company, 
as Chief Operations Officer. Robin 
stepped into this new role in response 
to the continuing growth of Actual 
Experience and the need to build 
a global operation to support its 
international customer base.
Robin has extensive CIO, COO, 
technology and operations experience, 
previously holding positions at blue- 
chip public companies, including 
Mitchells & Butlers, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Proctor & Gamble and Ford Motor 
Company.
Investment in brand and 
marketing
Our brand is being refreshed to more 
accurately reflect our commercial 
focus, to build on what we have 
learned, to differentiate our service and 
underline its relevance. We are creating 
the category ‘digital experience quality’ 
for our brand to occupy. Our offering 
has been honed and modernised, 
and the customer journey refined. 
We expect this work to support the 
creation of direct demand both to us 
and to our channel customers. 
Outlook
We have made significant progress 
across key aspects of our business 
this year. Actual Experience’s market 
opportunity is vast and growing and we 
have put in place many of the building 
blocks needed to capitalise on this 
potential. In the current financial year 
we will continue to invest in people 
and technology, develop further sales 
opportunities, both channel and 
direct, and also expect to see further 
significant revenue contribution from 
our existing customers.
DAVE PAGE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
12 January 2016
Actual Experience AR2015-Front.indd   7 01/02/2016   12:11:03
