 23 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report another strong set of results across 
the Group. 
BRANDED DISTRIBUTED
The Branded Distributed Business Unit reports the sales of our 
brands through third party distributors. 
Branded Distributed revenue was 37% higher at £14.6 million 
(2014: £10.7 million) and 38% higher at constant currency.  
The main contributor to this growth was LiquiBand
®
 sales in the 
U.S., which accounted for 55% of the Business Unit’s total sales.
LiquiBand
®
 in the U.S.
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 in the U.S. increased by 93% to £8.0 million 
(2014: £4.1 million) at reported currency and by 79% at 
constant currency. The latest data
2
 for December 2015 shows 
our volume market share in the U.S. hospital sector increasing 
to 16.0%, up from 9% at July 2015, while our volume market 
share in the U.S. non-hospital, or alternate site, market is now 
estimated
2
 at 22.2%, increased from 21.5% at June 2015, 
making an overall market share of 16.8% (11.1% at July 2015). 
The launch of our 2-octyl cyanoacrylate formulation,  
LiquiBand Exceed
™
, has extended our portfolio of products 
and has contributed to the momentum of growth. We now 
have a number of formulations of cyanoacrylate within our 
marketed LiquiBand
®
 product range, including very fast setting 
formulations with applicators allowing for quick, precision 
closure; film-forming formulations that are designed to close 
and provide a protective barrier layer over wounds as well as 
formulations that have properties in between. Our LiquiBand
®
 
products are now able to accommodate the full spectrum of 
wound closing needs, each in innovatively designed 
applicators favoured by surgeons. 
On 3 November 2015, the FDA approved two new product claims 
for LiquiBand Exceed
™
 giving it a competitive advantage in the 
topical skin adhesive market. These claims allow AMS and its 
distribution partners to differentiate LiquiBand Exceed
™
 from the 
market leader on wound coverage, volume of useable glue and 
ability to re-use during the same operational procedure, saving 
both time and cost. The two new claims include the use of a 
single device to cover wounds of up to 30cm in length, as well as 
a single device being suitable for intra-operative reuse for up to  
90 minutes on a single patient. Both claims are unique for the  
U.S. Topical Skin Adhesive Market and will help us to continue to 
provide a superior product for clinicians and a versatile solution for 
healthcare providers in this key market, helping AMS to grow its 
market share further.
LiquiBand
®
 in the EU and Rest of the World
Elsewhere, within the EU and ROW, LiquiBand
®
 sales through 
our distributors continued to show good growth. France and 
Italy remain our largest markets outside the U.S., U.K. and 
Germany. Overall sales increased by 12% to £1.7 million  
(2014: £1.5 million) at reported currency and constant currency. 
The regulatory approval process for LiquiBand
®
 in China has 
continued to be challenging. Given the difficulties that have 
been experienced due to changes in the regulatory pathway, 
we have withdrawn our original file and re-started the 
submission process with our most recent formulations and 
designs of LiquiBand Exceed
™
 and LiquiBand
®
 Flowcontrol
™
 
and are not expecting approval in the current year. 
Hernia Mesh Fixation Device – LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
We have been delighted with the response we have received from 
surgeons following the launch of LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
. Feedback has 
been extremely positive about the ease of use of this device and 
the benefit it brings to patients regarding the reduced risk of post 
operative pain. A number of surgeons have been keen to endorse 
the product and we are also receiving valuable feedback about 
other possible applications suitable for this type of device on 
which we are currently working. 
AMS received approval to market this highly innovative 
product, LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
, in Europe in May 2014. This was 
the Group’s first application using medical cyanoacrylate 
technology inside the body. Through the accurate delivery of 
individual drops of cyanoacrylate adhesive, LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 is 
used to hold hernia meshes in place within the body instead of 
traditional tacks and staples. This accurate laparoscopic 
application of adhesive is expected to reduce surgical 
complications, in particular the potential pain associated with 
the use of tacks and staples, thereby improving the patient 
experience and reducing healthcare costs overall.
We were able to expand the indications of LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
 in 
May 2015 and the device is now able to be used for the 
laparoscopic surgical mesh fixation for all types of abdominal 
hernia as well as for the closure of the membrane lining the 
abdominal wall (peritoneum). This was the first extension of the 
claims of LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
 and we expect to develop further 
opportunities for this kind of application, broadening the 
market for the use of adhesives internally. 
2 Data supplied by Global Healthcare Exchange
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer 24 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT CONTINUED
In the first full reporting year, £1.0 million of LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
 
sales have been achieved across the Group, with £0.7 million 
(2014: £0.1 million) resulting from sales to distributors. The 
product is now launched in 20 countries. 
RESORBA
®
Sales of RESORBA
®
 products to all export markets (excluding 
Russia) declined by 7% at reported currency to £3.1 million 
(2014: £3.3 million)
3
, but increased by 4% at constant currency. 
France and Italy remain our largest markets for export and 
good growth was seen in both territorities, offset by a weak 
performance in China where sales declined 19%. Sales in 
Russia decreased by 10% at constant currency, but decreased 
40% to £0.8 million (2014: £1.3 million) at reported currency, 
reflecting both the weak economic conditions within Russia 
and the impact of the weak Rouble. 
We received approval from the FDA on 4 November 2015 that 
we had clearance to market the majority of our suture product 
portfolio, successfully adding to our first U.S. suture approval 
from early 2015. With only one more suture type still awaiting 
U.S. market approval, we are now well positioned to launch a 
comprehensive range of sutures into the U.S. in mid-2016 
through a combination of our branded and unbranded routes 
to market. The U.S. surgical suture market is estimated to be in 
excess of $1 billion in size and is dominated by a few major 
brands. Gaining U.S. approval for the RESORBA
®
 product 
range has been a strategic aim for the Group since we 
acquired the business in late 2011, providing a significant 
opportunity for AMS in the medium term.
In R&D our focus is on continuing to improve the formulations 
of the base monomers that are used in our adhesives as well 
as extending the applications of tissue adhesives for other 
internal uses.
BRANDED DIRECT
The Branded Direct Business Unit reports sales of our branded 
products through our own sales forces in the U.K., Germany and 
Czech Republic. Reported revenue declined 3% to £22.3 million 
(2014: £23.2 million)
3
 but grew by 3% at constant currency. 
2015 was a year of investment in this Business Unit with a 
number of senior management hires and, in particular, a new 
Business Unit Director was hired in June. As a consequence of 
these investments, a number of new initiatives have been put in 
place to drive the business forward in 2016.
ActivHeal
®
ActivHeal
®
, which delivers a high quality range of woundcare 
dressings that offer significant cost savings without 
compromising on clinical outcomes or patient care, continues 
to be a compelling proposition for the NHS. Sales of our 
ActivHeal
®
 range increased by 8% to £6.4 million (2014: £6.0 
million). We continue to broaden our product range to the NHS, 
including our recently approved anti-microbial and atraumatic 
foam dressings within our offering. 
3 £0.4m of sutures for the dental market has been reclassified from the 
Branded Direct to the Branded Distributed segment. The 2014 revenues  
have been restated to aid comparison
LiquiBand
®
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 into the Accident and Emergency Room 
(‘A&E’) in the U.K. fell 13% to £2.3 million (2014: £2.6 million). We 
expect the initiatives we have taken to restore growth in 2016. 
Sales into the OR increased 17% to £0.7 million (2014: £0.6 million). 
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 in Germany increased 27% at constant 
currency to £1.6 million and by 13% at reported currency. 
Within this, sales of LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 contributed £0.3 million 
(2014: nil). 
RESORBA
®
Sales of RESORBA
®
 branded products in Germany  
and the Czech Republic were 10% lower at £11.3 million  
(2014: £12.5 million)
3
 at reported level but flat at constant 
currency with some pricing pressure being seen. Within this 
sales of haemostats increased by 1% at constant currency  
to £3.3 million (2014: £3.6 million) and sales of sutures and 
collagens into the dental market increased 5% at constant 
currency to £3.1 million, whilst sales of sutures into hospitals  
fell 2%. 
We believe our ability to supply a comprehensive range of high 
quality sutures that provide cost savings to hospitals is 
compelling, and we are targeting smaller accounts where 
conversion will not be seen as such a difficult challenge. This 
strategy looks to be proving successful with a number of 
hospitals already agreeing to convert the suture ranges in their 
A&E departments in 2016.
In R&D, our focus is on extending the attributes of our collagens 
to meet the needs of dental practitioners and oral surgeons as 
well as including new antibiotics in our haemostats. 
OEM
The OEM Business Unit reports the sales of products that are 
sold under third parties’ brands.
OEM revenue increased by 10% at reported currency to £27.7 
million (2014: £25.3 million) and by 8% at constant currency. 
Our silver alginate ranges of dressings continued to perform 
well, with sales increasing by 13% at reported currency and by 
10% at constant currency to £15.5 million (2014: £13.7 million). 
Our partners continued to do well with the range of silver fibre 
dressings we provide, gaining market share as well as 
accessing new geographical markets. We continue to support 
them with regulatory approvals and marketing data. 
On 1 September 2015 we received CE approval in Europe for a 
new, non-adhesive, antimicrobial foam dressing containing 
Polyhexamethylene Biguanide (PHMB).
PHMB has been shown to be effective against several bacteria 
including, amongst others, Staphylococcus Aureus including 
the methicillin resistant type (MRSA) and Escherichia Coli 
(E-Coli). This antimicrobial foam wound dressing may be used 
throughout the healing process on moderate to heavily exuding 
chronic and acute wounds that are infected or are at risk of 
infection and may be used on pressure ulcers, leg and foot 
ulcers, diabetic ulcers and surgical wounds.  25 Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc Annual Report 2015
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Company Overview
In addition, we also now have approval for an atraumatic wound 
dressing containing silicone which can be removed from a wound 
without damaging the skin. Contracts have been agreed to launch 
both the PHMB foam and the atraumatic foam with our OEM 
partners and are expected to launch in 2016. We expect that the 
launch of our antibiotic foam dressings may result in some initial 
substitution of our silver alginate dressings. 
Sales of our existing foam-based dressings were flat at £1.8 
million. With the expansion of our product portfolio, growth is 
expected in 2016.
Our other woundcare and skin protectant products delivered 
good growth and grew 6% to £9.7 million at constant currency 
(2014: £9.0 million), and 7% at reported currency.
We continue to work on extending our advanced woundcare 
ranges by looking to add other antimicrobial products to the 
range, improving the absorbancy of the dressings as well as 
combining a number of materials to enhance the performance 
of our dressings. 
 
BULK MATERIALS
The Bulk Business Unit reports sales of bulk materials to third 
party convertors.
Bulk Materials revenue increased by 2% at reported currency 
to £3.9 million (2014: £3.9 million) and by 12% at constant 
currency.
Rollstock foam contributed around 86% of Bulk revenue and 
good growth was seen by one significant customer that had 
destocked in 2014. Sales by some newer and smaller partners 
are also now starting to gain traction and are expected to bring 
benefits in 2016. 
In R&D, the focus is on developing new foam formulations  
with antimicrobials, working in conjunction with the OEM 
Business Unit. 
OPERATIONS
Efficiency and Gross Margins
We continue to make operational improvements by reducing 
set up times, eliminating non-value added activities and 
increasing outputs. These incremental efficiencies are helping 
to improve gross margins across the Group and have helped to 
generate an improvement of approximately 100 basis points in 
2015. We have invested in improving both our converting and 
packing capability in Winsford. This equipment has provided 
increased operational flexibility, improved efficiency and 
provided additional capacity. 
Capacity and Resource
The capacity of our collagen plant in Germany has been 
increased with a new freeze drier and ancillary services. The 
total cost of this investment is £0.8 million, of which £0.2 million 
was incurred in 2015. This plant is now fully running, following 
commissioning in February 2016 and has increased our 
collagen manufacturing capacity by 50%. 
We continue to invest in improving our ERP (Enterprise 
Resource Planning) management and reporting systems and 
having already successfully completed the implementation in 
Winsford, Plymouth and Etten Leur facilities, are now working 
on improvements to our systems in Germany. 
Regulatory and Quality Assurance
With the regulatory framework becoming increasingly complex, 
we have continued to invest in both Regulatory and Quality 
functions and systems to ensure that we are able to support 
our partners with winning approvals in new markets as well as 
obtaining approval for our own products. We have started work 
on scoping the process to gain approval to market LiquiBand
®
 
Fix8
™
 in the U.S. which will involve a full Pre Market Approval 
(PMA) and is likely to take at least three years. We are also 
working on identifying the regulatory pathway to include 
antibiotics in collagens. 
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
We have delivered a reported revenue growth of 9%, 11% at 
constant currency, and improved profitability and cash 
generation during the year. 
All Business Units have delivered growth at constant currency 
with the U.S. sales, in particular, delivering a very strong 
performance. We have been very pleased with the successful 
launch of our LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 hernia mesh fixation device. 
Sales in the first year have given us confidence that this 
product will drive growth and support our strategy of 
accessing the OR. 
We have also received a number of approvals in the year 
demonstrating our continued success with new products and 
underlining our commitment to investing in R&D. We expect to 
make further advancements in these activities and to launch 
new products as a result of our innovation. 
We are confident that the Group is well placed to drive growth 
and remain excited by the prospects for our future.
