 47
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Chairman and Chief Executive
The Company does not combine the roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive. There is a clear and well-defined division of 
accountability and responsibility between the roles of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive and these are set out in writing 
and have been agreed by the board. The consequence of this 
clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company is 
such that no individual has unrestricted powers of decision. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive are committed to ensuring 
the development and maintenance of an effective and trusting 
relationship with the appropriate balance between challenge 
and support.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and 
effectiveness of the board. He is accountable for promoting 
effective board relationships and the participation of all 
board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness 
and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its 
role. The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board 
discharges its duties to promote the success of the Company 
for the benefit of all stakeholders and to guide Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s business and conduct in accordance with the 
highest ethical standards. 
Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to 
summarise the board’s activities in executing its duties during 
the year. The plan highlights the priorities the board has 
identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive, and can 
be modified to take account of any unscheduled developments. 
In chairing and setting the agenda for board meetings, the 
Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for discussion and 
meaningful challenge in areas such as strategy, performance, 
value creation and accountability.
Subject to matters reserved to the board, the Chief Executive 
is responsible for the leadership of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder 
value. Consistent with this objective, overall operational 
management is delegated to the Chief Executive who, together 
with the Group Leadership T eam, is responsible for the proposal, 
development and implementation of the Group’s overall 
strategy, driving execution, growing markets and customers 
and developing our people. The building and maintenance of 
an effective executive management team, and the allocation 
of responsibility therein, are key components of and essential 
to the performance of the Chief Executive’s role.
The Chief Executive also takes the lead role in the promotion 
of Amec Foster Wheeler, setting the tone in the realisation of 
the Company’s vision and values and encouraging the highest 
standards of health, safety, security, environmental and 
ethical performance.
Neil Carson has acted as the board’s Senior Independent 
Director since the conclusion of 2015 AGM, following the 
retirement of Simon Thompson. Neil was selected for the 
role on account of his significant knowledge of Amec Foster 
Wheeler and its operations and his experience as a director 
of international companies. Both the nominations committee 
and the board considered that Neil Carson best met the criteria 
required for the role. The Senior Independent Director is 
responsible for: 
 X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding  
board for the Chairman on board-related matters 
 X acting as an additional channel of communication between 
the Chairman and the other directors where necessary 
 X being available to shareholders for concerns they may have 
that have not been resolved through the normal channels 
of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors, 
or which are not appropriate to raise through these channels 
 X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and 
concerns of Amec Foster Wheeler’s shareholders through 
attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the 
company’s major shareholders and financial analysts 
 X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive 
directors as to the performance of the Chairman 
 X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, 
providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance 
 X overseeing the search for a new Chairman, as required 
Senior Independent Director
