 Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
8
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
James Murray           
Executive Chairman
Results
Reported revenue for the year ended 30 September 2015 was 
£146.8m, up 9% on 2014. On a pro forma basis, i.e. including a 
full 2014 financial year’s performance for the businesses acquired 
in January 2014, revenues were up 3% year on year and up 4% 
after the effects of the contract changes in Mobile are excluded. 
Gross margins remained steady and adjusted EBITDA at £22.1m 
was up by 13% on a reported basis and by 10% on a pro forma 
basis. 
Cash generation has remained strong across the Group with 
99% of adjusted EBITDA converted to cash. Group net debt 
at 30 September 2015 had reduced to £18.7m (30 September 
2014: £29.3m), comfortably outperforming the £20.0m target we 
outlined in June and down from £41.3m at the time of the 2014 
acquisitions.
Dividend 
The continued financial strength of the Group has enabled 
the Board to declare a final dividend of 10.9 pence per share, 
resulting in a total dividend for the year of 16.4 pence per share, 
an increase of 13%. This is in line with the Board’s commitment 
to grow the dividend by at least 10% each year. The intention 
remains to progress towards 15% growth in the medium term. 
The dividend will be paid on 29 January 2016 to shareholders on 
the register as of 4 January 2016. 
The 2015 financial year has seen Alternative 
make good progress in its stated objective to 
grow the business further. We have continued 
to strengthen our offering, armed with an 
increasing array of market leading products 
and services that can meet customers’ 
communications and data needs.
The investment we have made, both through 
the acquisition of complementary businesses 
and the upgrading of our infrastructure, is 
delivering good results and leaves us well 
positioned for further growth.
Chairman’s Statement Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
9
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Review of operations
The acquisitions made in 2014 have been integrated into the 
Advanced Solutions division, which now represents more than 
50% of group revenue. Advanced Solutions performed well in the 
financial year, especially in the second half, following a slight lull 
in orders towards the end of the first half, and we closed the year 
with a strong £5.2 million order backlog. The division also enjoyed 
some excellent new client wins, and reinforced its particularly 
strong presence in the higher education sector, signing contracts 
with 14 universities and 33 schools during the year.
Mobile Network Services traded in line with expectations and 
continued to grow its market share, with an increased number 
of subscribers in a competitive market, representing a very 
creditable achievement. Fixed Voice was as expected slightly 
down on the previous year and in line with market trends, and 
the division now represents less than 20% of group revenues. 
Our market leading Synapse portal has continued to be a key 
differentiator, and we continue to drive further enhancements to 
its functionality, stability and reliability. 
The move to our new offices in Blackfriars Road, London, has 
completed successfully. This, combined with an upgrade of 
our entire IT infrastructure and the full integration of the most 
recent acquisitions, means our employees are better equipped 
to deliver our high quality products and services to the market 
more effectively and under a single brand, and has enabled our 
customers to derive maximum benefit from them. 
We announced on 3 June 2015 that Edward Spurrier would be 
stepping down as CEO and as a director of the company and 
that Mark Quartermaine would assume the role of CEO. After a 
four month handover, Ed’s last day with Alternative Networks was 
30 September 2015. We are enormously grateful to Ed for the 
contribution he has made to the growth of Alternative Networks 
from its very earliest days, through to a listing on AIM 10 years 
ago and on to what it has become today.
Growth strategy
Led by the new executive management team, the Group is well 
positioned to continue the growth trajectory seen to date. The 
last year has been one of investment for that purpose, and we are 
well on our way to becoming one of the UK’s leading providers 
of IT managed services to UK businesses. This investment has 
been made to enable the Group to take maximum advantage of 
the expanded portfolio of services it has steadily developed, both 
in-house and through acquisition.
As we look to take advantage of the strong platform we have 
built, we will use our breadth of products and services to establish 
ourselves the long term supplier of choice for a larger customer 
target base and drive organic growth. We continue to remain 
open to acquisition opportunities should they be clearly enhancing 
to shareholder value and fit our product and capability set. In 
addition, we intend to invest further in product development so 
as to remain at the cutting edge of the market and maintain our 
competitive strengths. The growth of our pipeline, the increasing 
number of larger businesses taking more of our services and the 
conversion rate of orders suggest that our strategy is working and 
will continue to deliver value. We therefore remain positive about 
our future prospects.
James Murray
Executive Chairman
8 December 2015
We intend to invest further in 
product development so as to 
remain at the cutting edge of 
the market and maintain our 
competitive strengths.
