 06
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
 X Roy Franklin, currently Chairman of Keller Group plc, deputy 
chairman of Statoil ASA and a non-executive director of 
Santos Ltd, was appointed an independent non-executive 
director and member of the nominations committee, with 
effect from 1 January 2016
 X As reported above, Samir Brikho stepped down from his 
position as Chief Executive on 17 January 2016. Ian McHoul 
was appointed interim CEO, in addition to his role as Chief 
Financial Officer with effect from 17 January 2016
Full biographical details of your board can be seen on pages  
41 to 43.
Diversity remains another key area of focus for your board and 
your company has made great strides in this area – not just the 
diversity of human capital (individual characteristics, skills and 
gender) but also, as I have mentioned previously, in thought 
diversity. Collaboration, teamwork and respect for each other, 
combined with an assiduous attention to health, safety, security 
and the environment will ensure that we remain at the top of our 
game, despite competitive pressures and market conditions. 
And here again we see further benefits from the merged 
operating practices following our acquisition of Foster Wheeler 
where we have created a best of both approach.
I also want to comment on health and safety, which remains an 
absolute priority throughout the organisation. The Chief Executive 
reports to the board on this at every meeting and our Health, 
Safety, Security, Environmental & Ethics Committee (see page 63) 
has an increasingly key role to ensure we protect our people, 
our customers and everyone associated with our projects. 
Y our company will benefit from our best-in-class approach, 
which is clearly understood and upheld throughout the group.
Y our Company’s performance 
The tough market conditions will continue for longer than 
originally expected and these have been reflected in the 
performances of your company across our four markets – 
oil & gas, mining & metals, clean energy and environment & 
infrastructure (more details can be seen on pages 24 to 25). 
Our 2015 trading profit
1
 was £374m and our proposed final 
dividend is 14.2p per share, making a total of 29.0p per share 
for the year. If approved at your Company’s annual general 
meeting on 27 April 2016, it will be paid on 4 July 2016 to those 
shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 May 2016.
Conclusion
My fellow directors and I remain strongly convinced of Amec 
Foster Wheeler’s potential. We believe that your company’s 
strategy, strength & depth of customer relationships and 
breadth of skills & capabilities will enable us to optimise our 
performance in these down markets and position your company 
to take advantage of better markets when they return.
Difficult times call for strong leadership and I would like to thank 
our leadership team and everyone in Amec Foster Wheeler for  
their valued contribution to date and their commitment to 
delivering our future potential.
John Connolly 
Chairman 
10 March 2016
Chairman’s statement
The last year has been one of significant challenge and change 
in your company.
Having completed the acquisition of Foster Wheeler at the 
end of 2014, the group tackled the task of integrating the 
two companies to create the new Amec Foster Wheeler. 
This took place during a year when the significant oil price 
decline and consequent actions across the oil & gas sector 
produced extremely turbulent and challenging markets for 
our business. Whilst we will continue for some time to operate 
in these harsh markets, your board remains confident that the 
strategic rationale for the Amec Foster Wheeler combination 
remains sound.
As we announced, Samir Brikho stepped down from the Chief 
Executive role on 17 January and left the company, with Ian 
McHoul appointed interim CEO from that date. Samir was Chief 
Executive for nine years and made a significant contribution 
to the development of the group during that period and, on 
behalf of the board, I want to thank him for his commitment and 
contribution during his tenure. I also want to thank Ian McHoul 
for stepping into this role to steer the company forward in the 
period ahead. The board has progressed the search for a new 
CEO, supported by Korn Ferry, and we anticipate making an 
announcement on this in due course.
In the Chief Executive’s statement on page 7 , Ian McHoul 
reports on progress and our near term priorities. As already 
announced your board concluded that an appropriate 
action in these markets is to lower the dividend (see below). 
A priority was to execute a refinancing and in March 2016 we 
announced that the new financing for the company’s medium 
term was in place, with total facilities of £1.7 billion, which 
gives us substantial headroom and marks another important 
step towards further strengthening our balance sheet. The 
executive team continue to execute a clear strategic plan to 
optimise the group’s performance during these challenging 
market conditions.
Y our board
There have been a number changes to your board since the 
start of 2015:
 X Kent Masters, formerly the Chief Executive Officer at Foster 
Wheeler AG, was appointed a non-executive director on 
13 February 2015 for an initial term of three years, which will 
end at the 2018 AGM
 X Neil Carson was appointed Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of our Remuneration Committee on 14 May 2015 
following the previously-announced retirement from the 
board of Simon Thompson at the close of the annual general 
meeting, having served two three-year terms as a Director
John Connolly
Chairman
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174)
