 Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
10
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Mark Quartermaine           
Chief Executive Officer
2015 has been a good year, delivering 
solid growth in all key metrics whilst 
completing major integration and operational 
improvement projects, and creating a strong 
platform to support future growth.
Most integration related activities are now 
complete following the London office IT 
platform enhancements and back office 
process integration. This, in addition to 
significant investments, most notably across 
our office portfolio, but also in our sales force 
and in product development, has resulted 
in a Group that it is well placed to increase 
sales and deliver even greater customer 
satisfaction. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Overview
In January 2014 the Group completed two acquisitions, which 
contributed for part of the year in 2014 and for the full year in 
2015, and as such we refer to pro forma (or like for like) results 
in this report where we have included a full year of 2014 results 
for the acquisitions as though we had bought them at the start of 
2014 financial year.
The major highlights of the year were as follows:
– Continued gains in market share in key growth areas:
– Mobile subscribers increased 9% to 99,413 (2014: 
91,391)
– Advanced Solutions pro forma revenues and orders up 
10% and 3% respectively
– Major product development with the release of new 
propositions as well as enhanced versions of existing 
products;
– £1.0m investment in increasing ongoing account 
management resource to drive product penetration across 
the existing customer base;
– Completion of the integration of 2014 acquisitions with the 
businesses rebranded Alternative and all teams now located 
together in new facilities; and
– Shift of all legacy on-premise IT infrastructure and hosted 
services into modern managed secure datacentres. Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
11
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The new premises and IT infrastructure provide the Group with a 
sound platform for future growth. The Group is better positioned 
to expand both its managed service product portfolio and its 
selling capability to deliver the portfolio to new and existing 
customers more effectively.
Trading and performance overview
In 2015 the Group has continued to build on a successful 2014, 
with momentum seen in 2014 continuing into 2015, and has 
resulted in increases in reported revenues, gross profit and 
adjusted EBITDA, compared with the prior period and on a  
pro forma basis. Group reported revenues at £146.8m were 9% 
ahead of 2014, with pro forma revenues up 3% (2014: £134.4m), 
and up 4% when the reduction in Mobile bonus revenue impact is 
excluded.
Cash generation was once again strong, with operating cash 
conversion of 99% of adjusted EBITDA. As a result, net debt has 
fallen to £18.7m, beating the Group’s £20.0m year-end target and 
bringing it comfortably below one times adjusted EBITDA.  This 
has allowed the Board to propose a final dividend of 10.9 pence 
per share which is 14% up on 2014.
The Advanced Solutions business was 10% ahead of the prior 
year on a pro forma basis. Total orders signed in the year were 
3% higher than the prior year on a pro forma basis, resulting in 
a total backlog of £5.2m at the end of the year for delivery in the 
coming financial year. New orders have been generated across 
the portfolio, with some notable areas of success particularly in 
higher education, where the Group has signed contracts with 14 
universities and 33 schools and colleges during the year. 
Hosted Managed Services and On Demand Services, formerly 
parts of ControlCircle and Intercept IT, are reported in Advanced 
Solutions and are now fully integrated into the Group with all 
teams located in a new, single London office and the businesses 
rebranded as Alternative. Trading performance has been solid, 
with minimal client attrition. As previously reported at our interim 
results, performance in the year was moderately impacted by 
two major customers putting new orders on hold pending internal 
strategic reviews, resulting in lower non-recurring revenues. Of 
these, one customer has returned to its pre-review order profile. 
Now that the acquisitions are fully integrated we are encouraged 
to see improving order trends overall, which we expect to 
continue into the new financial year. 
The Mobile business has once again delivered a strong 
performance in the period, gaining market share with a 9% 
increase in the subscriber base year on year, and a further 
1,300 signed that will connect by the end of the first quarter of 
2016. Underlying revenues (which exclude the effect of revised 
commercial arrangements with suppliers) grew 5% to £39.7m, 
representing 28% of the Group’s overall revenue. 
Fixed Voice revenues were 9% below the prior year, in line with 
expectations. Gross profit was more resilient at 6% behind 
the prior year due to the positive impact of new commercial 
agreements signed in the period. Whilst we continue to manage 
the product set for profitability, the key focus remains the 
migration of the fixed line base to SIP channels which have grown 
almost 50% year on year. Overall the Fixed Voice business now 
represents 19% of the Group’s revenue, down from 23% in 2014.
The Group is better positioned 
to expand both its managed 
service product portfolio and its 
selling capability to deliver the 
portfolio to new and existing 
customers more effectively. Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
12
Strategy
The Group’s strategy remains to become the leading IT managed 
services provider for UK businesses via both organic and 
acquisitive growth. The Group operates in the UK Telecoms and 
Information Technology (IT) market as an IT Managed Services 
company covering the full spectrum of services and products 
from device to the datacentre. 
The financial performance of the Group, including revenues, profits, 
cash flows and net debt is set out in the Financial Review and a 
discussion of the KPIs of the Group are included in the Trading 
Review, both within the Chief Financial Officer’s Review.
Platform for growth
2015 has been a significant year of organisational and operational 
change. Major changes revolve largely around the Group’s office 
space portfolio, product development and IT infrastructure. The 
latter has focused on migrating our infrastructure and applications to 
our datacentre facilities and therefore improving resilience. 
These combined investments will not only improve our service 
offerings to customers, but will also increase productivity and 
collaboration amongst our people and allow easier integration of 
future acquisitions.
The Board is committed to building a broader and stronger platform 
for growth. We have set out our vision to be the leading IT managed 
services provider of choice to UK businesses. We have invested 
a total of £0.8m non-recurring capital on developing the new 
infrastructure required to provide the services which customers 
need to bridge private and public cloud services, in addition to 
routine recurring capital investments. The technical strategy is 
focused on three elements: 
 − On demand services – to be accessed through the portal 
and consumed per user per month (e.g. Email or Unified 
Communications (“UC”)) or per unit of compute (e.g. storage); 
 − Infrastructure services – in mobile, WAN, voice and hosting; 
and
 − Significantly enhanced Synapse customer portal to include  
IT services and extend to public cloud services.
The Group infrastructure and hosting services are critical to the 
delivery of this strategy and in the second half of 2015 we have 
launched our own UC cloud platform as well as a significantly 
enhanced “Desktop as a Service”. 
Strategically, we are positioning ourselves to continue to support 
our customers to consume business critical applications via a 
variety of communication methods, and this will support our growth 
aspirations going forward.
Organic growth 
The Group continues to build successfully on the following four key 
areas of focus to deliver continued organic growth:
 − Winning larger customers in our target markets;
 − Using improved customer service and Synapse, combined 
with the acquired portals, to drive improved customer retention 
across the wider product set;
 − Improved product penetration across our customer base; and
 − Product development and innovation to increase value to our 
customer base.
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
13
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
In 2015 the average spend per client was up 12% on the prior year 
demonstrating the successful implementation of the strategy. At 
the period end, average monthly spend of our ‘large customers’ 
(i.e., those with a monthly spend in excess of £1,000) increased 
10% year on year, reflecting a significant increase in the size of new 
customers to the Group. 
The Group’s ability to win large contracts with new customers 
has been proven once again in 2015 including sizeable deals with 
Homeserve and the London Internet Exchange (LINX) to provide 
multiple services. 
Product penetration statistics continue to show a broadening 
uptake of services from across our customer base, with increases 
in sales per customer showing that our customer service levels 
continue to improve. 
Product penetration across the customer base remains strong, 
with 46% of customers taking more than one product (2014: 
46%) and the proportion taking four or more products increasing 
to 17% (2014:16%). This is in line with the Group’s stated strategy 
of growing the average size of the customers, via enterprise sales 
and driving product penetration in our existing base. 
Product development 
We have always aligned our technical strategy with our 
customers’ needs and have now successfully transitioned the 
Group into IT managed services. We continually look at new 
product offerings to further support customers and align their 
IT with the needs of the end user, and to deliver bespoke IT 
solutions for our customers from the device to the datacentre. 
As a result we are well positioned to take increasing amounts of 
market share with new services, most importantly PaaS (Platform 
as a Service) and DaaS (Desktop as a Service) in which our 
products are innovative and market leading and further similar 
offerings will be launched in 2016.
Portal development
Central to this strategy is the use of Synapse, the Group’s 
dynamic service interface, offering customers significant service 
and flexibility benefits. During 2015 the Group has continued 
developing Synapse as well as continuing the process of 
converging the other, wider Group portal systems into it, providing 
an enhanced interface, covering the Group’s device to datacentre 
portfolio.
As part of the wider transformation of our office and infrastructure 
estate, the Group portal systems have been moved into a fully 
virtualised environment, alongside our other internal IT application 
suite, in order to ensure optimal performance for end users and 
greater service resilience. 
Significant work has also been performed on key internal systems 
to provide the basis for this convergence, with unification of sales 
and CRM systems, and with ticketing to follow, this provides the 
foundations to significantly expand the Group’s portal functionality.
Growth by acquisition
The Group’s cash generative nature has facilitated the significant 
reduction in net debt since the 2014 acquisitions; this, combined 
with the strong balance sheet leaves us well placed to capitalise 
on further opportunities and as such, the Group continues to 
monitor the market proactively for further “right-fit” acquisitions.  
Acquisitions are being targeted to complement the existing 
products and to further expand our capabilities and product set 
in the Advanced Solutions area, with a focus on managed and 
hosted services
During 2015 the Group has continued developing 
Synapse as well as continuing the process of 
converging the other, wider Group portal systems 
into it, providing an enhanced interface, covering 
the Group’s device to datacentre portfolio. Strategic Report
Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
14
The main focus remains on strategic acquisitions that 
complement the existing product set and can be seamlessly 
integrated, although the Group also considers bolt-on acquisitions 
that would bring a customer base where the Group can capitalise 
on its proven cross sell capability. The Group will continue to be 
opportunistic with regards to acquisitions. We remain well placed 
to take advantage of any opportunities as they arise, applying 
strict selection criteria.
The Group’s long standing and consistently strict criteria for 
acquisitions remains unchanged. Targets must:
 − be successful, growing, highly cash generative, and 
profitable;
 − have customers that provide cross selling opportunities for 
the Group; and
 − be earnings enhancing in the first full year of ownership. 
Outlook
The strategic acquisitions in 2014 and the transformational 
projects in 2015 have resulted in an IT Services business with 
a unified operational structure, a fully invested sales force and 
a market leading product portfolio, able to deliver end-to-end 
solutions to a larger and more receptive customer base. 
In 2016 we plan to continue to expand, upgrade and improve our 
product set, with a full pipeline of new product development. We 
are also planning further investment in the technology we use to 
service customers, resulting in greater efficiency and improved 
service. 
Product penetration statistics continue to show a broadening 
uptake of services from across our customer base, with increases 
in sales per customer showing that our customer service levels 
continues to exceed expectations.  
The improved profit performance in the second half of 2015, 
together with the high recurring revenue levels in the Group, mean 
that the Board approaches 2016 confident that the business can 
continue to generate encouraging levels of growth going forward. 
The first weeks of 2016 show signs that the momentum carried 
through from the fourth quarter is continuing and provides sound 
encouragement.  
Mark Quartermaine
Chief Executive Officer
8 December 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued Alternative Networks
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
15
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
YEAR TO SEPTEMBER 2015 2016 PLANS
Advanced 
Solutions
The Group has continued to drive relationships and capabilities with 
core UC (Unified Communications) vendors with a focus on the 
higher value application services (primarily contact centre) within the 
supplier eco-system, whilst also expanding our Skype for business 
footprint within the online cloud platform. 
In the latter part of the year we launched our own UC cloud platform 
APaaS (Alternative Platform as a Service) utilising the capabilities 
of recent acquisitions to deliver an enterprise grade, per-user-per-
month, voice platform to Group customers. The APaaS offering 
is built on the principle of fast deployment and easy to consume 
services, whilst also providing customers with a migration path with 
hybrid and full cloud options.
Furthermore we have enhanced the technological capability through 
which customer services are managed. This is the first in a number 
of planned developments which allow the Group to provide a 
differentiated service offering through a web-based platform that 
takes feeds from multiple monitoring sources and correlates the 
data to understand how an IT environment is performing. This 
allows Alternative to diagnose and resolve customer issues faster 
and understand the context and impact an IT service interruption or 
performance issue has on a customer business.  
Moving into 2016, further ‘as a Service’ products will be 
launched, and development of the cloud platform will look 
toward public cloud integration.
The Group invested heavily in the online cloud platform 
in 2015 to further enhance its capability, scalability 
and security, providing a foundation from which we will 
build the next generation of services in 2016. The cloud 
platform enjoyed 30% growth in 2015, and combined with 
the 2015 enhancements, provides a robust foundation on 
which the group will develop new services.
Mobile 
Voice
Development in the mobile portfolio has remained focused on 
cost control and device security expanding the portfolio to deliver 
a standalone integrated set of products that allows customers to 
control their mobile data costs and secure the company data held 
on a device. 
In 2016 the portfolio will expand to provide these services 
in a cloud delivery model and integrate the management 
capability into Synapse.
Fixed Voice
With the 2025 date set for the withdrawal of traditional fixed voice 
services, the group has diversified its SIP offering and focused on 
the convergence of voice services with wide area network services 
as ISDN replacement services.
In 2016 the portfolio will expand to incorporate new 
suppliers with unique market capabilities, addressing 
specific customer usage cases and increased 
development of capabilities in Synapse. 
Product penetration statistics 
continue to show a broadening 
uptake of services from across 
our customer base.
Product development 
