 Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
07
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Additional information
Dividend per share for the year
29.0p
Adjusted diluted EPS for 2015
67.7p
Chief Executive’s statement
Following a board meeting on 17 January, the Company 
announced the departure of Samir Brikho on 18 January 2016, 
since when I have fulfilled the dual roles of Chief Financial 
Officer and interim CEO. My finance report can be found on 
page 28 and I would, for the record, like to wish Samir all the 
best for the future.
2015 was a year of contrasting forces. We successfully launched 
our new operating model on 1 January, so creating the platform 
from which to develop and grow our business. However, market 
conditions and commodity prices continue to dictate the flow 
of multiple projects on which we have been working.
Despite the market downturn and the industry-wide mantra 
about the conditions being ‘tougher for even longer’ , we have 
achieved notable successes in helping our customers achieve 
greater efficiencies – and we have continued to win projects 
and contracts across all of our four business units.
In November, in recognition of the harsh environment and 
future outlook, we announced our intention to reduce our future 
dividend payments – thereby bringing them back in line with 
our existing policy of around two times earnings cover.
T ough times call for tough actions and we continue to reduce 
costs – raising our synergy targets, streamlining our business, 
focusing our offering, creating greater efficiencies through 
innovation and partnership and being more flexible to even 
better support the needs of our customers. 
The Group Leadership T eam and I are working on creating 
the most efficient platform for growth in both the current and 
hopefully more positive market conditions in the mid- to near 
term future.
2015 results
The challenging backdrop of economic uncertainty continued 
into 2015 and was exacerbated by the continuing price 
decline in many of our core commodities. We have delivered a 
trading profit
1
 of £374m, on reduced revenues of £5,455m and 
proposed a final dividend of 14.2p per share – in line with our 
November 2015 guidance. 
Our cash conversion rate
1
 was 104% and adjusted earnings 
per share
1
 of 67 .7p. As I am also Chief Financial Officer, I will give 
more depth and insight into our financial performance in the 
Financial Review on pages 28 to 37 . 
We have continued to win interesting and exciting projects 
in each of our four key markets and across our four business 
units, resulting from increased collaboration, skills transfer 
and knowledge sharing.
Ian McHoul 
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
A year of  
contrasting 
forces. 
Order book
£6.6bn 08
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Challenges create a 
platform from which to 
showcase our best work.
Tough environments provide 
opportunities for diverse 
thought leaders.
The industry is 
now saying: ‘tougher 
– for even longer’ .
Delivering on promises
We operate throughout the oil & gas value chain, from 
production and transportation, through processes that go 
beyond simple separation and dehydration, to refining or 
processing crude oil into finished fuel products. This remains 
the major part of our business, accounting for 54% of our 
revenues and so the low price of crude oil has had a dramatic 
impact on our business. 
In 2015 we have concentrated on developing innovative ways 
of working and providing more cost-efficient solutions for 
our customers, who are also feeling the pain. Our More4Less 
initiative, which established more momentum during the year, 
is just one example of how our lean and scalable engineering 
processes and integrated delivery approach has been proven 
to deliver notable savings.
During 2015, we won more than 1,000 new projects with a 
mix of new and existing customers; however, the start dates 
of a number of these contracts have been delayed by market 
conditions. Our order book, at £6.6bn, is up on 2014, but does 
not take into account work won with no confirmed start date.
Our employees continue to work on many of the more 
interesting and ground-breaking work in our chosen markets, 
as befits the talent and skills we have. More detail can be found 
on pages 24 to 25. 
In oil & gas we have strengthened our relationship with BP , 
winning North Sea contracts, have won work in T exas, US 
with D’ Arcinoff, and been awarded projects with SKS, Orpic 
and the Government of Timor-Leste in Malaysia, Oman and 
Timor-Leste respectively.
Our clean energy business has seen us win a range of contracts 
from steam generating and air pollution control to nuclear 
assessment and solar generation. We have been recognised 
as a key supplier and strategic player for Mexico’s growing heat 
recovery steam generator market, with four project wins during 
2015; and have won nuclear projects in Canada, France, Japan, 
UK and USA.
We have seen notable innovation in our environment & 
infrastructure markets, winning further work for the US Air 
Force with the Contract Augmentation Program IV in the US and 
for the design and construction of special facilities in Guam. 
Our mining business has been impacted by commodity prices, 
but notable wins included providing front-end engineering 
services for the expansion of the Çöpler Gold Mine in T urkey 
and an engineering procurement and construction contract 
with Petra Diamonds for its Cullinan Mill Extension Project 
in South Africa. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
09
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2015
Additional information
Safety is at the heart of all that we do and we successfully 
launched our Beyond Zero initiative – meaning zero harm every 
minute of every day, whatever we do at work or at home. 
It includes the tools to enable all our employees to help 
us achieve a world-class Health, Safety, Security and 
Environmental performance and includes preparing the ground 
for a new programme for 2016.
Designed to enable our safety leaders to effectively identify 
hazard and intervene when they consider safety is being 
compromised, we call it HEART (for Harm Elimination and 
Recognition T raining). 
HEART will equip our safety leaders at supervisory and 
management levels of our organisation with the confidence 
and skills to use the technique. 
Outlook
Current thinking indicates that low commodity prices will 
continue to be the largest disruptive factor in our markets for 
the immediate future – especially in our oil & gas and mining 
operating units – so we see another tough year ahead in 
some markets.
However, I have taken great heart from the way our people 
have buckled down to the challenges set across our business, 
as the ‘tougher for even longer’ mantra continues to have a 
major impact on customer decision-making, capital expenditure 
and project implementation.
In particular, I believe the benefits of our diverse model are 
already differentiating us, with good opportunities in down 
stream oil & gas, renewables, government work and UK T&D. 
We have almost sixty years’ experience in decommissioning 
highly complex nuclear assets and the expertise we have can 
be used to benefit other areas such as retiring UK North Sea 
oil and gas platforms.
We will continue to partner with our customers to deliver the 
most innovative, efficient and effective results possible and are 
looking to put our global resources, people and thinking to work 
even harder to achieve this. 
Our business platform is in place, our operating model is 
embedded, we are reviewing underperforming assets, we plan 
to halve our debt by mid 2017 and we are looking to build our 
business by doing the right thing, delivering on promises and 
delivering full potential.
Ian McHoul 
Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO
10 March 2016
Developing full potential
We have blended the skills within our organisation to benefit the 
needs of our customers and created a platform for long-term 
growth which, while the slings and arrows of commodity prices 
may temporarily hurt us, is the right approach for our business 
in the long term.
Our company has been delivering ground-breaking, 
energy-related projects and improving the lives of billions 
of people since 1848. 
Operating in over 55 countries, our approach is to forge strong 
working partnerships with our customers – which include 
governments, multi-national businesses and communities 
– to create some of the world’s leading industrial projects.
Our 40,000-strong, skilled workforce ranges from 
archaeologists to zoologists and almost every profession 
in between.
And we are good at what we do – designing, delivering and 
maintaining strategic and complex assets to time and budget. 
For example, despite the challenging conditions, our Danjing 
4 biomass power plant project in South Korea reached 
commercial operation two weeks ahead of schedule.
We have embedded the concept of using our specifically 
resourced offices in India as further support for the businesses 
and we have added greater risk management protocols through 
our Identify, Acquire, Deliver process. 
We deliberately maintain our strong and established positions 
in mining, clean energy, power generation, environment & 
infrastructure alongside the oil & gas market to develop 
complementary skills and services as well as to provide revenue 
diversification and a form of hedging against market trends.
Diversity is also evident in our approach to life, in the 
methodology we apply to solving our customers’ problems 
and in our business strategy. 
We have to empower our employees and maintain their career 
paths and excitement about our future and, as a part of the 
integration process, we have introduced new systems to further 
harness our combined potential in living our values and creating 
a culture of safety, honesty and collaboration – with customer 
needs at the heart of everything we do. 
The Academy, which provides our people with development 
opportunities towards reaching their full potential, also shifted 
towards delivering more free and accessible solutions globally, 
supporting the business need for improved efficiency.
Doing the right thing
Without ethical or safe behaviour we would be just another 
company, so we aspire to be the best at both.
During the year we introduced our new Code of Business 
Conduct by which we operate and accompanying online 
programmes for Code of Business Conduct and anti-bribery 
and corruption training. 
Both are mandatory for all staff to ensure that all our 
employees, and those working on our behalf, are aware of the 
laws applicable to us and act in accordance with those laws. 
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174) 10
Connected
excellence
thr ough deep 
customer 
knowledge
Long-term client relationships help to safeguard 
the future of our business. Our work with EDF 
Energy, under a lifetime enterprise agreement, 
provides technical support and expertise for 
EDF Energy Generation’s current UK nuclear 
reactor fleet. 
EDF Energy operates 15 reactors at eight 
nuclear power plants across the UK. Amec 
F oster Wheeler was chosen to provide services 
because of our unique range of skills and 
capabilities in nuclear engineering, combined 
with a long-standing relationship between the 
two organisations.
The services we provide will enable EDF Energy 
to continue delivering the secure, reliable, 
low-carbon electricity the UK needs now and 
into the future. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
11
Additional information
Jo Skelton, Section Lead 
– Remote Operations, fits
a cowl in the gap between
fuel guide tubes on Amec
Foster Wheeler’s Hot Box
Dome rig at Birchwood,
Warrington, UK. The Hot
Box Dome project is one
of the projects within EDF’s
fleet‑critical programme.
