 The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2015
04
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
This has been a year of major strategic re-alignment 
for Alumasc, coupled with the group’s best 
performance since 2008.
John McCall
Chairman
Overview
This has been a year of major strategic  
re-alignment for Alumasc, coupled with a strong 
trading performance.
Revenue from continuing operations rose by 
£9.2 million (+10%) to £98.1 million. Underlying 
profit before tax rose by £1.2 million (+16%)  
to £8.4 million, building on the improving trend 
of recent years, and our best performance  
since 2008.
This improvement, we believe, is further evidence 
of outperformance by our portfolio of sustainable 
building products businesses against the welcome 
background of improving demand from UK 
construction. We estimate that our building 
products businesses have outgrown the sector by  
an average 3% per annum over the past five years.
Following its review of group strategy, the Board 
initiated the sale of two businesses during the 
year, which it considered unsuited to its more 
focused vision for the future. The smaller of 
the two, Pendock Profiles, sold in September 
2014, generated a small trading profit prior to 
its sale and was sold at a profit to its book value. 
The much larger of the two, Alumasc Precision 
Components, continued to make losses until its 
sale at the close of the financial year, and a loss 
was incurred upon sale.
After taking full account of the impact of these 
two sales, basic earnings per share increased 
by 9% from 11.3 pence to 12.3 pence. The 
transactions will be earnings enhancing in the 
coming year.
The disposal of these businesses is viewed by the 
Board as a major step towards the greater focus 
of group resources in the field of sustainable 
building products foreshadowed in last year’s 
annual report. It is pleasing that both businesses 
have found new owners providing a better fit 
for their particular attributes, and we wish them 
every success for the future.
The combination of the strong performance 
outlined above with the sales proceeds from  
the two business disposals enabled the group  
to record a small cash surplus at the year-end. 
This provides an ideal base from which to pursue 
the development opportunities for our continuing 
activities referred to later in this report.
Dividends
In view of the trading performance, and 
consistent with its policy broadly to grow 
dividend payments in line with profit growth, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend  
of 3.5 pence per share (2014: 2.8 pence),  
giving a total for the year of 6 pence per share 
(2014: 5 pence), an increase of 20%. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2015
05 Strategic Report 01 - 19
 Governance 20 - 40
 Financial Statements 41 - 93
Board
David Armfield, a founding partner of Kinetix 
Corporate Finance LLP , was appointed a Director 
in October 2014. David has had a 30 year 
career in the City and, through Kinetix, provides 
corporate finance advice to the clean technology 
and environmental sustainability sectors. His 
insights in these fields and, more generally, 
sustainable solutions for the built environment, 
are of real relevance to the group’s plans  
for development. 
After a little over six years as a Non-Executive 
Director, John Pilkington retires from the Board 
following the announcement of these results. 
John’s contribution and support have been 
much valued during this period of change  
and we wish him continued success with  
his wide-ranging interests.
Strategy
Our central strategy is to develop our market-
leading positions in the supply of products 
and solutions for managing water and energy 
in buildings. This marketplace embraces 
both new-build and refurbishment activities 
and presents some specific opportunities 
outside Alumasc’s UK base. In addition to 
the continuing drive for organic growth, 
acquisitions will be considered where they 
complement this focused development.
The strategic disposal of Alumasc Precision 
Components necessarily triggers the 
relocation of certain group business activities 
to new premises. In addition to providing an 
opportunity for rationalising several operations, 
this move will also assist with the commercial 
opportunity to restructure our approach to the 
market for our water management product 
ranges under the banner of Alumasc Water 
Management Solutions.
Prospects
Alumasc’s focus on premium building products 
for sustainable building, coupled with the 
steady improvement in the UK economy, have 
resulted in widespread growth in demand for 
our product ranges during the past year. This 
improvement is widely forecast to continue, 
both generally and in the construction sector. 
Against this background, and with higher order 
intake and continuing success in establishing 
our overseas presence, the Board believes that 
the group will continue to make progress in  
the coming year.
John McCall
Chairman
Building Products Order Book (£m)
Building Products
Engineering Products
Industrial Products
Performance
The out-performance of Alumasc’s 
building products activities is driven by:
• Strategic positioning: 
leading brands focused on energy  
& water management;
• Strong management teams;
• New product development;
• Increased focus on London  
& South East;
• Increased refurbishment sector  
sales; and
• Growing export sales.
See our divisional strategy and 
business model: 
page 6
Increasing Strategic Focus
40
33
27
92
8
Ten years ago
2004/05 (%)
Revenue analysis over the last ten years
Continuing Operations
2014/15 (%)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Dec
13 
Mar
14 
Sep
14 
Dec
14 
Mar
15 
Jun
15 
Jun
14 
Note: Kitimat project orders excluded. The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2015
06
Strategic Report
Building Products’ Divisional Strategy and Business Model
Strategic objectives
To grow shareholder value through the 
development of our premium building 
products activities, each a leading player in 
its individual market niche. These activities 
are mainly focused on managing the scarce 
resources of energy and water in the built 
environment, where we expect growth rates 
to outperform the UK construction sector on 
average through the economic cycle. 
Market outlook
Market commentators are predicting the UK 
construction market will continue to recover 
steadily after a period of significant contraction 
during the post 2008 recession. Alumasc plans 
to leverage this anticipated growth through 
continued introduction of new products, 
investment in high quality management and 
sales resources and the development of  
export sales. 
Divisional strategy
The strategic positioning of our Building 
Products activities has enabled us to 
grow faster than UK construction market 
averages in recent years. 
We are well positioned to continue to 
benefit from the forecast growth in the UK 
construction market over the coming years. 
Our Business Model What We’ve Done
The business model is to drive profitable growth 
within a devolved organisational structure. The 
management team of each group business has 
an in-depth understanding of its market niche, 
customer base and routes to market and is 
therefore able to evolve and adapt rapidly to 
market developments and exploit opportunities 
for growth. Alumasc facilitates this by recruiting, 
retaining, empowering and motivating high 
quality management teams in each  
of our businesses.
We are increasingly identifying and exploiting 
opportunities for organic growth and developing 
synergies between our businesses. Examples 
are the new Alumasc Water Management 
Solutions brand (“ AWMS”) and the planned 
£10 million investment in a new manufacturing 
and warehouse facility for this operation to be 
occupied in 2017.
Harness our key strengths of 
strong market positions, strong 
management teams and well 
respected brands.
Combine our strengths with  
a culture of innovation, service, 
quality and trust.
Deliver market leading and 
differentiated solutions to 
customers, specifiers and end 
users of buildings. 
Leverage our strategic positioning 
to drive revenue growth, strong 
margins, operating cash flows  
and return on investment.
Management teams of each Alumasc business 
are encouraged to take an entrepreneurial, 
dynamic and innovative approach to developing 
their niche market positions. 
Investing to Support 
Profitable Growth
Approach
Operating Models
The operating models of each Alumasc business 
are designed to be flexible to gear revenues 
up or down in line with short term demand 
and to keep a close control of overheads such 
that the businesses benefit from operational 
gearing, whilst outsourcing capital intensive 
manufacturing activities where appropriate. 
In recent years we have invested almost  
£1 million pa, mainly in high quality people  
to drive profitable growth over the medium  
to longer term through innovation, new 
product development and further penetration 
of UK and international markets.
