 24171.04    21 October 2015 1:21 PM    Proof 10
ChieF eXeCUti Ve’s r eVieW
introduction
I am very pleased to report increased 
sales for the business during a period of 
investment. Revenues have grown in the 
period by 5.1% to £13.5m (2014: £12.8m). 
During the last two years we have been 
building a business that provides a strong 
platform from which to launch a new 
period of growth. This has been based on 
bringing together the best team possible 
and giving them the right environment 
to deliver our key strategic objectives. I 
am very happy with the progress we are 
making to deliver that growth.
Business r eview
The veterinary market continues to evolve, 
presenting new opportunities to work 
differently with a customer base that is 
consolidating and looking for increasing 
value from the products and services we 
provide. 
Latest industry figures show that dog 
numbers in the UK have declined by 4.7% 
to 8.5m and cats by 6.8% to 7.4m (Pet Food 
Manufacturers’ Association, www.pfma.
co.uk), with this trend appearing to reflect 
across other pet species too. There are 
no clear reasons for this change at a time 
when the economy is getting stronger in 
the UK after several years of recession. The 
national dog and cat charities believe these 
changes are as a result of their campaigns 
promoting responsible pet ownership. 
We believe we have limited exposure to 
these changes in pet population due to the 
clinical nature of our product portfolio and 
the demographic of veterinary customers 
likely to have been affected by changes in 
pet ownership. 
l icensed Veterinary medicines
The Licensed Veterinary Medicines group 
again generated strong sales, growing by 
8.8%. During the first half of the period the 
main competitor to our product Buprecare 
(an analgesic and controlled drug) was 
absent from the market for a period of 
several months allowing Animalcare to 
benefit from non-recurring sales estimated 
at £0.2m. 
In the first half of the year we launched 
the Pet Remedy range of over the counter 
products on distribution in the UK and 
Ireland. Pet Remedy is based on a patented 
formulation containing valerian at a specific 
level to calm pets. It can be used across all 
species and has proved very popular and 
effective in many domestic and veterinary 
settings. 
During the second half we launched four 
new pharmaceutical products, all on 
distribution from an EU partner. Synthadon 
and Anaestamine both complemented 
our growing anaesthetic and analgesic 
range; Clavubactin and Fungiconazole 
are an antibiotic and antifungal product 
respectively. All are focused on the 
companion animal market. Whilst in the 
first few months of their launch phase, 
sales of each are progressing well.
Encouragingly, our pharmaceutical 
products are growing above market rates 
in comparison to the most recent UK 
market data which show a 1.1% increase 
for companion animal medicines revenues 
in the 12 months to March 2015 (National 
Office of Animal Health, www.noah.co.uk).
“I am very pleased 
to report that 
good progress 
has been made 
in our product 
development 
pipeline.”
iain menneer Chief Executive Officer
10 24171.04    21 October 2015 1:21 PM    Proof 10
Companion Animal identification
The sales volume of our Identichip 
microchips increased in the period by 1.7%, 
however UK revenues decreased by 2.2%, 
like for like. A significant equine order 
fulfilled late in the prior period adversely 
affected revenues from the equine channel 
in this reporting period.
In April 2016 it will be a legal requirement 
for all dogs in England to be microchipped 
and in addition it will be an offence if the 
owners’ details are not kept up to date on 
the associated microchip database. The 
Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly 
have recently followed suit in introducing 
similar legislation, effective April 2016.
This impending change in the law has not 
had a dramatic effect on the uptake of 
microchipping. However, our veterinary 
customers have become more price 
sensitive and responsive to short-term 
promotional campaigns. We have plans 
underway to bring value back into the 
market once it settles down.
Pleasingly through this period our revenues 
from services derived from the microchip 
database have continued to rise.
Animal Welfare Products
The Animal Welfare Products group grew by 
2.6% in the period. The infusion accessories 
range complements our prescription 
medicine intravenous fluids range and grew 
in the period by 5.3%, representing over 
50% of the product group. Other categories 
in this group achieved revenues meeting 
our expectations with very modest levels of 
commercial support.
As stated before, we continue to assess our 
product portfolio not only to rationalise 
poor performing or lower margin items but 
to selectively invest in new opportunities 
that complement our existing ranges 
to enhance revenue growth and profit 
generation.
People
General
Animalcare is a great place to work and 
we pride ourselves on the positive and 
supportive culture. I have highlighted in 
previous reports that changes have been 
made to bring the personnel systems up to 
date and to a level befitting a company of 
its size and stature. I am very pleased that 
further progress has been made during the 
year to incentivise and reward colleagues 
better. Attention has now focused on staff 
engagement by improving company-wide 
communication and awareness raising. 
These efforts are having a positive effect in 
all areas of the business; and I am pleased 
that this year we have again experienced 
more staff promotions into new and 
responsible positions.
management
Senior management changes during the 
financial year have resulted in a stronger, 
more capable leadership team. Sarah 
McKenzie joined as Head of Marketing 
from a senior commercial position at Teva 
UK, the global generic pharmaceutical 
company. Sarah brings directly applicable 
skills and experience from some very 
similar dynamics in the human generics 
market.
More recently, Martin Gore, formerly 
of Novartis Animal Health’s leadership 
team in the UK, was appointed to a newly 
created position to focus on European 
development. Martin has a wealth of 
commercial skills gained in the animal 
and human health sector and has recent 
experience as a country manager in Ireland.
sales
During the period we have concluded 
the reorganisation of our sales team. It is 
divided into two regions addressing the 
north and south of the UK. A structure 
has been introduced to support sales 
management. This change allows 
us to reward and motivate senior 
representatives more effectively. Field sales 
have been supported by the successful 
introduction of a telesales team. The final 
development is the strengthening of our 
key account support necessitated by the 
increase in corporate and buying group 
customers. Structural changes have been 
complemented by significant investment 
in training and development of our 
sales team. It is our goal to better serve 
our customers’ changing requirements 
and build a team that is capable of fully 
exploiting the new products and services 
that our product pipeline will bring to 
market.
Product Pipeline
I am very pleased to report that good 
progress has been made in our product 
development pipeline. Development work 
has focused on identifying new product 
opportunities and also ways to significantly 
enhance the commercial potential of 
existing pharmaceutical products.
Four new and four existing product 
development projects reached the 
‘Regulatory’ stage of our pipeline (see page 
9), three being submitted to the authorities 
for assessment. One of these products 
has already been approved and will be 
launched to the UK market early in the 
second half of the current financial year. 
The other two are currently progressing 
through regulatory assessment successfully 
to date.
Animalcare Group plc Annual Report 2015
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock Code: ANCR
11
Strategic Report
Our Performance 24171.04    21 October 2015 1:21 PM    Proof 10
These submissions are a clear sign that the 
strengthening of the development process 
is having an effect and that progress is 
being made; evidence of which will be in 
their launch from January 2016 onwards. 
Furthermore, other submissions will be 
made during the current financial year.
europe
Animalcare’s sales outside the UK have 
been broadly constant for several years, 
averaging 8% of total turnover. The growth 
in our home UK market has not been 
reflected in mainland Europe. Therefore 
one of Animalcare’s stated strategic 
objectives is to increase sales outside the 
UK and reach the potential that patently 
exists.
A major step forward was the creation of 
a new post with the sole responsibility to 
achieve this. As outlined above, Martin 
Gore was appointed Head of Export 
Development late in the period.
Martin will assess current distribution 
arrangements in existing territories, 
offering support and insight from our 
central technical and marketing functions 
as required. In addition he will also identify 
new territory and distribution partner 
opportunities. In doing so Martin will 
increase our exposure in Europe with the 
intention to stimulate more inward product 
opportunities too.
o perations
supply Chain
During the year our operations function 
has started a structured programme to 
manage the supply chain more robustly, 
including monitoring supplier performance 
and developing more informed forecasting 
models. It is believed that both of these 
elements will improve product supply and 
tighten control of stock levels.
o utlook
Over the past two financial years significant 
effort has been made to build a strong 
platform to launch into a new growth 
phase in Animalcare’s history. I believe 
the essential ingredients are now in place 
and are already delivering progress in key 
areas of sales, product development and 
European growth.
During the past six months significant 
progress has been made increasing 
networks and contacts in an effort to 
source products to acquire or in-license. 
Whilst still in the early stages, there 
are some exciting opportunities under 
discussion.
Our business is strongly cash generative 
giving us the necessary resources to invest 
significantly in our product pipeline. We 
will continue to invest in and develop our 
enthusiastic and committed Animalcare 
team who are at the core of everything  
we do.
iain menneer 
Chief Executive Officer
ChieF eXeCUti Ve’s r eVieW CONTINUED
12
