 GROUP OVERVIEW 
Chairman’s statement
Such growth could have been stronger but for the 
impact of continuing falls in commodity prices which 
directly affected our royalty income and led to certain 
non-cash impairments and revaluation adjustments 
totalling £32.5m (2014: £43.4m) leading to an overall 
loss before tax of £30.5m (2014: loss £42.4m).  
This resulted in a basic and diluted loss per share of 
14.06p (2014: 42.09p). Due to the large number of 
valuation and non-cash items included in the Income 
Statement, we also present an adjusted earnings 
measure as outlined in note 11 to the accounts.  
This measure more closely reflects the performance 
within management’s control. Adjusted earnings per 
share were 2.47p (2014: loss of 1.97p).
Dividends
Our review of our dividend policy twelve months  
ago, in conjunction with the Narrabri acquisition,  
was underpinned by financial projections based on 
consensus forward prices at the time. The subsequent 
volatility in commodity prices coupled with a significant 
reduction in the forward consensus pricing outlook, 
both of which are above and beyond what we had 
anticipated, have more than offset the benefits of a 
significant reduction in costs along with production 
outperformance at Narrabri. We stressed last year  
that a dividend policy had to be both affordable and 
appropriate and in the current circumstances believe 
an amended policy is necessary. Consequently, as 
advised in our trading update statement of January 28, 
2016, we are recommending a final dividend for the 
year ended December 31, 2015, of 3p per share.  
Longer term, however, we retain our target of paying 
dividends of at least 65% of adjusted earnings (as 
defined in note 11) with a medium term minimum 
annual dividend of 6p per share.
Royalty portfolio
In reviewing our current royalty portfolio, it is 
particularly encouraging to note that, despite the 
ongoing turmoil in the mining sector in general and 
commodity prices in particular, all of the Group’s 
royalties that were in production in 2014 remain in 
production and continue to generate royalty income. 
We are, all the more determined to ensure that any new 
royalty or streaming acquisition meets our exacting 
investment requirements, as described in our strategy 
on pages 10 to 11. This approach has resulted in no  
major acquisitions being made following Narrabri and 
many of the opportunities presented to us during the 
year being discarded. However, we are confident that 
more attractive opportunities will arise during 2016  
and beyond as the cost of capital in the sector 
continues to increase and the Group continues to 
progress a number of potential opportunities.
Details of our current portfolio are shown on  
pages 04 to 05. It is worth highlighting the particular 
performance of our Narrabri royalty. When the royalty 
was purchased permitted production levels were 
8Mtpa, and Whitehaven Coal, the operator, has now 
obtained permission to increase this to 11Mtpa and  
is ramping up production towards this higher level. 
Lower commodity prices did however reduce the 
carrying value of certain of the Group’s royalty assets  
in the period, although impairment charges of £4.4m 
were considerably lower than the £25.3m recognised in 
2014. The largest adjustment was to the carrying value 
of Kestrel which showed a valuation deficit of £27.2m  
as a result of revisions to long term coking coal prices, 
although there was a tax shield associated with this 
deficit of £8.2m.
2015 has seen the beginnings of a turnaround in the fortunes  
of Anglo Pacific. Our royalty income has doubled from £3.5m  
to £8.7m as our Narrabri acquisition contributes for the first time  
and mining at Kestrel begins to return to our royalty lands.  
This, coupled with a significant reduction in our operating expenses 
following a stringent review of our cost base, has led to a return  
to profitability at operating level with an operating profit of £2.1m 
(2014: operating loss £2.8m). 
06
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Board
2015 has seen further changes to the Board. As advised 
last year, Anthony Yadgaroff retired from the Board  
on December 31, 2015 after almost 13 years’ service.  
I should like to thank him again for his hard work, 
diligence and sage advice during that period. 
In anticipation of Anthony’s retirement, we appointed 
Patrick Meier to the Board on April 30, 2015. Patrick has 
over thirty years of experience in investment banking, 
most recently with RBC Capital Markets, with specialist 
knowledge of the mining sector. He has already had a 
significant impact on the workings of the Board.
Our Strategic Report
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from pages 08 to 35, was 
reviewed and approved by the Board on March 22, 2016.
Outlook
2016 onwards should be a period of sustained organic 
growth for Anglo Pacific as production at Kestrel moves 
increasingly into our royalty lands while that at Narrabri 
continues to ramp up towards the increased permitted 
levels. In addition, the continuing challenges facing the 
mining sector are bringing and will continue to bring 
further opportunities for the Group. We believe that our 
ability to be innovative and imaginative in our approach 
to these opportunities will bear fruit in the year ahead.
In conclusion, I should like to thank all Directors and 
staff for their continued diligence and hard work during 
what has been another challenging year.
W.M. Blyth
Chairman
March 22, 2016
PRODUCING PRODUCING
ROYALT Y INCOME MORE THAN  
DOUBLED IN 2015 
We have seen our royalty income more 
than double in the year as Narrabri 
contributes for the first time
ATTRACTIVE OPPORTUNITIES
The cost of capital in the industry 
continues to increase, which should 
present attractive opportunities
GROUP OVERVIE W
07
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
