 04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
OUR BOLD STEPS TO 
TRANSFORM OUR FUTURE
DISPOSAL AND CLOSURE OF ASSETS
During 2015, disposal transactions completed or 
announced amounted to $2.1 billion, and our disposals 
programme has subsequently been increased to a 
cumulative total of $5-6 billion by the end of 2016. 
Discussions are currently under way with potential buyers  
of our Niobium and Phosphates businesses and our  
Barro Alto and Codemin nickel operations in Brazil; as well 
as our Moranbah and Grosvenor coal mines in Australia, 
amongst others. Appropriate decisions about such disposals 
will be made over time, based on value and other factors.
In light of the commodity price environment, the Company 
has ceased or is ceasing production at a number of 
operations. Operations that have been placed onto long 
term care and maintenance include Peace River Coal  
and Snap Lake (diamonds) in Canada, while Thabazimbi 
(iron ore) in South Africa has reached the end of its life  
and is being closed. Plans have been initiated to place 
Twickenham (platinum) in South Africa onto care and 
maintenance, while the Damtshaa (diamonds) operation at 
the Orapa complex in Botswana was placed onto temporary 
care and maintenance from 1 January 2016.
STABILISING THE BALANCE SHEET 
We have seen the positive effects of productivity 
improvements in our operations throughout the year.  
These, combined with significant cost reductions, coupled 
with asset sales, and assisted by favourable exchange  
rate movements in our major countries of operation,  
have enabled us to keep net debt at a stable $12.9 billion, 
despite persistent price decreases for our commodities. 
LIQUIDITY AND DEBT TARGETS
Despite maintaining strong liquidity, with c.$15 billion of 
cash and undrawn facilities, we are nevertheless taking 
further steps to substantially strengthen the balance sheet, 
thus unlocking value and supporting the rebuilding of 
shareholder equity. Given the current extremely low price 
levels for our products, which may persist for some time, we 
are targeting a significant reduction of our net debt to below  
$10 billion in 2016, and to be less than 2.5 times EBITDA in 
the medium term. 
Following on from these cost reductions and cash savings, 
we are targeting being free cash flow positive in 2016, at 
current prices and exchange rates.
DIVIDEND
We maintained a 32 cents per share dividend at the  
interim stage. However, given the sharply deteriorating 
commodity price environment in the second half of the  
year, and the need to conserve cash and reduce debt, 
regrettably we had to take the unavoidable step of 
suspending dividend payments. When we resume  
dividend payments, we will move to a payout ratio-based 
policy, which we will define at that time. 
RESULTS
Anglo American’s own basket of commodity prices, which 
declined by 9% in 2014, decreased by a further 24% in 2015, 
with our share price slumping to record lows. We delivered 
underlying EBIT of $2.2 billion (2014: $4.9 billion). Over the 
past two years, price falls have impacted underlying EBIT by 
$6.6 billion, of which $4.2 billion was in 2015 alone. 
STRATEGIC FOCUS 
Given that no mining company in today’s market can rely  
on an early uplift in prices, we have acted to create a new  
Anglo American with a deleveraged balance sheet. 
We are, therefore, refining our focus towards a core portfolio 
of a reduced number of world class assets. These comprise 
our leading positions in diamonds, platinum group metals 
(PGMs) and our very attractive position in copper. They are 
long life, competitive assets – with the mineral potential to 
organically grow to create an attractive new Anglo American 
business with good profitability through the cycle. They are 
also mid- to late-cycle commodities and products which 
afford our Group greater exposure to the fast-growing 
consumer sectors of the global economy, within which  
lie a number of next-generation clean energy and other 
environmental technologies that rely upon such products. 
We will thus, over time, rebalance the Group away from the 
commodities which are more heavily linked to the steel 
industry and the urbanisation phase of development in  
China and other emerging and developing economies. 
The restructuring will be challenging given its scale and 
boldness, but the streamlined organisation structure and 
clearly defined Operating Model under Mark Cutifani’s 
leadership, as well as the well-thought-through plans for 
discussion with our wide range of stakeholders, give us 
confidence in their execution.
In 2015, the world economy continued to struggle, 
with most emerging economies slowing sharply. 
Russia and Brazil fell into deep recessions. 
China’s continuing slowdown, and the associated 
renminbi weakness, triggered severe turbulence 
in financial markets and depressed demand for 
industrial materials. This had a major impact on 
the prices of our mined products and mining 
equities, which continued their steep fall, 
accelerating towards the end of the year . 
Sir John Parker
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 05
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
SAFETY
One critical and enduring priority for us is the Board’s 
continued close involvement with safety. We make no 
apology that safety performance is at the front end of our 
agenda at every Board meeting, with our goal being to 
achieve zero injuries. 
In 2015, our Group regrettably recorded six fatalities.  
However, this level, while six too many, equals the record  
low figure reported in 2014 – when the number of  
hours worked at many of our deep level, and potentially  
hazardous, platinum mines was significantly lower  
owing to a five-month period of industrial action.
Any death while on company business saddens us all.  
In our Sustainability Committee, under the dedicated 
chairmanship of Jack Thompson, himself an experienced 
miner, we investigate the causes and lessons learnt for  
each loss of human life in great detail. Our much improved 
second six months with, notably, a fatality-free final quarter, 
was particularly encouraging.
VALUES AND CULTURE
In today’s increasingly stringent legal and regulatory 
environment, mining companies are being subjected to 
unprecedented close scrutiny by their various stakeholders. 
This behoves everyone who works for Anglo American to 
constantly work on building the trust that is an integral part 
of our deep-seated reputation for doing the right thing, 
including a respect for human rights everywhere, and to 
show zero tolerance to any form of bribery and corruption.
During the year, the Board requested outside input  
and challenge in assessing the Ethical Framework  
at Anglo American. Following on from this, several 
recommendations were made and considered by  
the Board. Implementation of the recommendations  
approved by the Board will take place during 2016. 
As a Board, we acknowledge that, in practical terms, the  
‘tone from the top’ starts with us, regardless of the state  
of the market. This is particularly true for me as your 
Chairman in my dealings with Board members, senior 
management and all manner of stakeholders. It is also the 
case for our Chief Executive, and his management team,  
who are required to conduct all engagements – both inside 
and outside the business – with the respect and integrity 
demanded. And it is how each of us, as employees of  
Anglo American, should embody the Company’s values in 
our daily work. Actions and behaviours speak louder than 
any words and set the tone at all levels in our organisation.  
In these exceptionally tough times for our industry, it  
is especially important that our integrity, consistency  
in behaviour and transparency in all our dealings  
remain paramount.
THE BOARD
Succession planning at Board level for all Board members, 
including the Chairman, is kept under regular review by the 
non-executive directors and the Nomination Committee. 
Tony O’Neill, our Group Director of Technical and 
Sustainability, was appointed to the Board in July as 
Technical Director, and I should like to acknowledge his  
vast mining experience, knowledge, inventiveness and  
the strong leadership he has brought to our technical  
team, particularly in supporting the turnaround of 
underperforming operations. We have also, with great 
regret, had to accept the resignation of Phuthuma Nhleko  
as he had expressed a wish to concentrate on his business 
interests in South Africa. The Board would like to thank him 
for his keen commercial and strategic capability, and sound 
judgement over the past four years.
During 2015, we commenced an external evaluation of the 
Board and we remain committed to doing this every three 
years, as well as to upgrading our internal process of 
evaluation in the intervening years.
A WORD OF THANKS
I want to particularly thank all our Board members and the 
executive management team led by Mark Cutifani for the 
professionalism and dedication to find the right strategic 
route through the turbulent and uncertain period we are 
experiencing in the mining industry.
My thanks and the appreciation of the whole Board go to  
all our employees and contractors, who have been through 
and continue to face significant change as we navigate 
towards calmer waters.
OUTLOOK 
Following the plunge in mining commodity prices from  
2012, the outlook for raw materials remains challenging  
as China’s continuing slowdown unfolds and policymakers  
try to rebalance and restructure the economy away from  
its heavy reliance on infrastructure investment. In addition, 
the potential for higher US interest rates and a stronger 
dollar could present stiff headwinds for the global economy, 
especially emerging economies. However, with commodity 
prices at such depressed levels, following some four years  
of decline, we are finally beginning to see more supply-side 
discipline in certain of our commodities and a reduction in 
expenditure on large-scale mining expansion projects, 
which should in due course put a floor under prices.
Against this background, Anglo American has responded  
with a bold plan to concentrate the business, within a  
strong balance sheet, on an established core of world class 
assets. This will place us well as China’s economy matures 
and as developed consumer-led economies – especially  
the US and Europe – continue to grow.
As your Chairman, I believe that the new Anglo American  
will be more resilient and positioned to generate sustainable 
positive returns and growth for shareholders through the 
mining cycle.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT
Our 2015 strategic report, from pages 2 to 64, was reviewed 
and approved by the Board on 15 February 2016. 
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
Strategic report
