 STRATEGIC REPORT 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Challenging environment
The mining sector continues to face difficult times 
which we have not been immune to over the previous 
year. However, Anglo Pacific remains well placed to 
acquire attractive new royalties. We have a good 
platform of five producing royalties with Kestrel, 
Narrabri, Maracás Menchen and EVBC providing 
improved royalty flows in 2015, together with Four Mile 
producing maiden royalty receipts in February 2016. 
Our royalty income grew strongly last year and we 
expect further significant growth during 2016 and 
beyond. We have a strong balance sheet with little debt 
and we continue to carefully monitor costs and make 
reductions wherever possible. We believe these 
challenging times for the mining sector will provide 
opportunities for the Company to identify attractive 
new royalties which will enhance the lifespan and 
diversity of our existing portfolio.
The Narrabri mine continues to perform well, with 
production for the year ending December 31, 2015 
reaching 8.3Mt, well in excess of the original design 
capacity of 6Mtpa. We are encouraged that Whitehaven 
Coal has recently received approval to increase 
production to 11Mtpa from 8Mtpa which should lead to 
increased royalty income from the mine despite 
reduced commodity prices. In addition, the potential to 
expand operations into Narrabri South provides further 
upside to this royalty. Additionally, during the past year 
production at Kestrel has increasingly moved into our 
royalty area and updated tonnage sales forecasts from 
Rio Tinto, which we receive as part of our information 
rights, confirm previous guidance that 60-65% of 
Kestrel coal production will be within the Group’s 
royalty area during 2016. This should lead us to report a 
further increase in royalty income in 2016.
Despite these positive aspects, we have not been 
immune to the declines which have beset commodity 
prices over the past year. Though our income grew, this 
growth would have been even more impressive had the 
price of thermal and coking coal not declined by 
between 15% and 25%. In addition, the indiscriminate 
selling which has affected commodity stocks has also 
impacted our share price, to an extent that we trade 
well below our net asset value per share, at a very high 
dividend yield. Ordinarily such a yield would suggest to 
the market a further dividend cut. However, we have 
now made the cuts we believe are necessary to protect 
our balance sheet at this time, subject to ongoing 
market conditions being relatively stable. 
Dividend levels
Provided prevailing market conditions are maintained 
and with further growth in royalty income expected 
throughout this year, we believe an annual dividend 
level of 6p per share going forward should be close to 
being covered during 2016 and covered in 2017. We 
hope that the market will recognise the 6p level as a 
base from which we will grow. It remains a continuing 
policy of the Company to pay a substantial proportion 
of royalties to shareholders as dividends, and our 
long-term target dividend continues to be 65% of 
adjusted earnings (as defined in note 11 to the financial 
statements).
Positioned to take advantage  
of opportunities
We recognise the attractive opportunities present in 
the market at this time and are determined not to let 
these prospects pass without obtaining some high 
quality, attractive royalties. However, the cost of equity 
remains too high at our current share price to access 
accretive deals funded entirely by equity. In contrast, 
our cost of debt remains significantly lower which will 
enable the Group to complete smaller acquisitions as 
they arise. 
We are very mindful of the risks of debt in a highly 
cyclical industry; however, at times like this, nearer the 
bottom of the commodity price cycle than at the top, 
sensible use of debt is appropriate. Accordingly we 
expect to utilise our borrowing facilities in the first 
instance to finance acquisitions and where the 
opportunities are larger, we anticipate syndicating 
these investments with third parties in return for royalty 
and fee related income, or a mixture of both. We have 
been progressing such discussions for many months 
and a number of supportive institutional investors have 
expressed interest in funding larger deals.
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
08
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
I am pleased to report that, following completion of the Narrabri 
royalty acquisition in early 2015, the Group has experienced strong 
growth in royalty income during 2015 which it expects to continue 
during 2016. We believe the Group’s strategy is now beginning to 
bear fruit. We are now seeing investment opportunities with well 
positioned counterparties which have not been as 
freely available in recent years. The cost of capital in the 
mining space has risen, suggesting that counterparties 
may be more willing to engage with us at the returns we 
require, rather than pursuing the traditional equity and 
debt options. 2015 has seen several measures being 
announced by mining operators to strengthen their 
balance sheets. Streaming, in particular, has been a 
popular source of finance as conventional capital 
markets remain subdued. We believe that this trend  
is likely to continue in the short term to enable 
refinancing and in the longer term to facilitate growth. 
Alternative financing has the added benefit of reducing 
onerous compliance testing and reporting, which is 
attractive when attempting to reduce gearing levels 
and maintaining credit ratings. 
Upside exposure
Though we have had significant write-downs over 
recent years, we wish to highlight the important upside 
contained in the portfolio that is not reflected in its 
reported carrying value, as an increasing portion of our 
assets are not held at fair value. A key criteria we look 
for when acquiring royalties is the upside potential.  
This can take the form of accelerated production, as is 
occurring at Narrabri, or an increase in reserves and 
resources, as has occurred at Salamanca. Both of these 
events have the potential to increase the value of the 
underlying royalty. 
Outlook
Coal
A continuing concern for Anglo Pacific over the past 
year has been the negative sentiment associated with 
coal. Despite some perceptions in the UK, we believe 
that many countries, particularly in south-east Asia, will 
continue to rely on coal to fuel their growth. It is far 
more realistic to push for cleaner, high quality, less-
polluting coals than adopting a broadly held negative 
attitude towards all coal. I am pleased to report that  
this is precisely the area we had targeted for royalty 
exposure. Narrabri produces some of the cleanest  
and lowest polluting coal with low ash content which 
attracts a premium compared to the benchmark, 
precisely for these virtues. That said, we remain keen  
to reduce our overall coal exposure, unless we can 
generate very high returns, and we have identified 
uranium as an alternative commodity to coal on the 
energy side. We already have two uranium royalties 
within our portfolio and see this as a preferred 
commodity under our investment criteria.
Costs
Cost reductions have been a major focus in this new era 
for the mining sector and we recognise this new reality. 
Our central costs have always been relatively low as the 
business operates from a small single office with 11 
employees. We are pleased that we have been able to 
reduce the Company’s year-on-year costs, excluding 
provisions for non-cash share based payments, by 
34.5% from £4.9m in 2014 to £3.2m in 2015. On an 
inflation adjusted basis, we believe our costs are roughly 
unchanged over five years. Anglo Pacific operates on a 
very conservative basis and we continue to have the 
capacity to run a much larger portfolio with the current 
infrastructure.
Currency
As a result of our main sources of royalty income being 
received in Australian dollars which require translation 
to pounds, the continued weakening of the Australian 
dollar against the pound over the past two years has 
had an unfavourable impact on the Group’s reported 
income. 2016 has seen a weakening of the pound, 
which if sustained should benefit the Group’s results  
in 2016. 
Growth
Following payment of the interim dividend in February 
2016, the Group currently has over £4.0m in cash and 
headroom under our revolving credit facility subject to 
continued covenant compliance and our facility terms 
(as per note 23). Although we do not expect a rapid 
turnaround in the sector in the foreseeable future, we 
are beginning to see opportunities due to protracted 
periods of subdued capital markets in the mining 
sector. Despite the considerable capital outflows 
recently seen from the sector, we are actively seeking 
to deploy capital in a countercyclical fashion to take 
advantage of the current favourable market conditions. 
J.A. Treger
Chief Executive Officer
March 22, 2016
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
09
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
