 24171.04    21 October 2015 1:21 PM    Proof 10
ChAirmAn’s st Atement
Animalcare remains focused on three 
product groups: Licensed Veterinary 
Medicines, Companion Animal 
Identification and Animal Welfare Products; 
all sold through veterinary practices. The 
three areas of the business have performed 
well during the year; in particular the 
continued growth of Licensed Veterinary 
Medicines by 8.8% is very pleasing and 
follows a strong year in 2014.
Financial trading
Group revenues increased by 5.1% from 
£12.9m to £13.5m principally due to the 
growth in sales of Licensed Veterinary 
Medicines by £696k to £8.6m. This good 
performance has led to pre-tax profits 
increasing by 12.7% during the year and 
over 30% in the past two years. Basic 
earnings per share have increased from 
10.3p to 12.1p, up 17.5% in the period and 
33% in the past two years. Cash generation 
has remained very strong, with cash 
increasing from £3.8m to £5.8m.
People
The senior management of your business 
has been further strengthened during the 
year with high calibre individuals from 
the human and animal pharmaceutical 
industry. A Senior Management Team 
meeting made up of all the heads of 
departments is chaired monthly by our 
CEO Iain Menneer, setting and monitoring 
budgets, and running the business  
day-to-day. 
The plc Board, which meets eight times a 
year, is chaired by myself as Non-Executive 
Chairman, having held CEO and Chairman 
roles for thirty years. Nick Downshire also 
has wide business experience and is a 
qualified accountant and chairs the Audit 
Committee. Ray Harding is a qualified 
veterinary surgeon and set up and ran 
a successful pharmaceutical regulatory 
consultancy for fifteen years and is 
Chairman of the Remuneration and the 
Nomination Committees. Along with the 
CEO and CFO your Board sets the strategy 
to enhance shareholder value in all three 
main operating areas of the business.  
I believe the success and the long-term 
growth of Animalcare are well served by  
a stable, experienced, well balanced  
and challenging Board. This coupled 
with an able, talented hard working 
management team gives your Company 
real opportunity for continued growth over 
the coming years.
Product development Pipeline
Progress has been made during the period 
developing new products in our in-house 
development pipeline. Our investment in 
product development and in regulatory 
assessment fees has grown significantly 
during the year to almost £800k, an area 
which is core to our growth strategy. 
Further information is available on pages 8 
and 9.
dividend
Your Board proposes, subject to 
shareholder approval, an increased final 
dividend of 4.3 pence per share. With 
1.8 pence per share paid as the interim 
dividend this brings the total for the year to 
6.1 pence per share, representing growth 
of 10.9% (2014: 5.5 pence per share), 
which is in line with underlying operating 
profit and is well covered by the increase in 
cash balances.
Prospects
With the significant increase in investment 
in new product development and in 
the infrastructure across all areas of its 
business, Animalcare is well positioned 
and delivering its strategy for growth in 
sales from 2017 onwards. Your Company 
possesses not only an experienced, 
talented and well balanced leadership 
team but also a capable hard working 
workforce. I would like to thank them all for 
their commitment during the year, which 
continues to deliver an exciting growing 
business.
James lambert 
Non-Executive Chairman
“The three areas 
of the business 
have performed 
well during the 
year; in particular 
the continued 
growth of Licensed 
Veterinary 
Medicines”
James lambert Chairman
Animalcare Group plc Annual Report 2015
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock Code: ANCR
Strategic Report
Our Business
03
