 12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
CREATING THE NEW  
ANGLO AMERICAN 
Mark Cutifani
(1) 
Excludes $0.8 billion 
volume downside at  
De Beers in response 
to market conditions.
(2) 
See page 180 for  
the definition and 
calculation of copper 
equivalent unit costs.
(3) 
The Life of Mine plan 
for Mogalakwena 
mine extends until 
2105, beyond the 
current Mining Right 
expiry (in 2040). 
Applications for 
extensions to the 
Mining Right will be 
submitted at the 
appropriate times. 
There is reasonable 
expectation that such 
extensions will not  
be withheld.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
In my previous annual statement I reiterated that creating  
a platform of operational excellence is fundamental to 
delivering the full potential from our asset base, independent 
of the market’s external influences. In fact, weaker markets 
emphasised a greater need for operating discipline, to 
ensure that we are operating to deliver optimal cash flows 
while preserving the assets’ longer term integrity. In 2015, 
we have continued to focus our attention on those assets 
that contribute the majority of earnings to Anglo American 
and that offer us the greatest upside potential.
Of particular note, our two world class copper assets in  
Chile have both recovered well from their respective 
challenges. The mitigation plans put in place at Los Bronces 
in response to the water shortages in the first half of 2015 
proved effective and, once those water constraints were 
lifted following much-needed snowfall, the operation’s 
strong performance in the second half of the year delivered 
total annual production of 401,700 tonnes, just 1% below 
the prior year. Similarly at Collahuasi, where certain plant 
stability issues were identified early in the year, the operation 
delivered an exceptional performance in the last quarter, 
resulting in production of 200,300 tonnes (attributable) for 
the year, only a 3% decrease, despite the major challenges 
that were confronted.
In our Platinum business, the flagship Mogalakwena mine, 
with more than 25 years of Reserve Life
(3)
 and a highly 
competitive cost position, achieved a further 6% increase  
in production to 392,000 ounces for the year. The strong 
mining performance resulted from a number of operational 
enhancements, including improved equipment efficiencies, 
better drill penetration rates, increased shovel loading  
hours and truck loads, while higher grade and increased 
concentrator recovery performance combined to deliver 
record production.
In Australia, at our underground longwall metallurgical  
coal operations, we have seen significantly improved 
performance underpinned by improved cutting rates.  
This has been achieved by embedding automation to  
enable bi-directional cutting at Grasstree, resulting in  
record production at that mine through a 40% increase in 
run-of-mine tonnes. Bi-directional cutting is also planned  
to be rolled out at Moranbah in 2016, building on the 7% 
increase in run-of-mine tonnes achieved in 2015. At both 
operations, the implementation of the Operating Model  
has resulted in the stabilisation of processes through 
detailed planning while driving accountabilities to the 
operating teams.
At the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, the sharply 
deteriorating iron ore price during 2015 caused us to take a 
fresh look at the already revised mine plan, with a focus on 
reducing operating costs further. This work is in progress 
and requires a significant scaling back of the mine’s 
considerable waste stripping activities, achieved by 
redesigning the pit to a smaller and lower cost configuration, 
to preserve the economic sustainability of the mine through 
Against the strong headwinds of a 24% decrease in the 
basket price of our products, our ongoing intense focus  
on operational costs and productivity delivered a  
$1.3 billion
(1)
 underlying EBIT benefit in the year, providing 
some mitigation. Weaker prices accounted for a $4.2 billion 
negative impact to underlying EBIT, while weaker  
currencies in our producer countries served to provide  
$1.8 billion of mitigating benefit. The net negative effect  
of $2.4 billion was the major driver of the 55% decrease  
in underlying EBIT to $2.2 billion for the year. Overall, our 
copper equivalent unit costs
(2)
 reduced by a further 16%  
in US dollar terms, representing a 27% total reduction  
since 2012. Despite our internal improvements, underlying 
EBITDA decreased by 38% to $4.9 billion and underlying 
earnings reduced by 63% to $0.8 billion.
We have, however, been able to maintain our level of  
net debt and liquidity at $12.9 billion and $14.8 billion 
respectively, through improvements we have made to  
the business, significant capex reductions, making the  
tough decisions on some of our more marginal assets  
and the delivery of our asset disposal commitments. 
Recalibrated commodity price assumptions and losses  
on the disposal of certain assets have caused us to record 
pre-tax impairments and related charges in the second  
half of $3.8 billion.
Safety and environmental performance is a leading  
indicator of how businesses are run. The greater the  
degree of planned work and stable operations, the safer  
our people will be. In 2015, we achieved the Group’s best 
safety performance in a full production year, reflecting  
the intense focus on high risk activities, standards and 
controls. I am particularly pleased with the 80% reduction  
in environmental incidents since 2013. However, I am  
deeply saddened to report that we lost six of our colleagues 
during the year, reminding us in the most acute way how 
much work we still have to do to ensure our people go  
home safely from work every day. I am encouraged,  
though, by the significant improvement in the second half  
of the year, with a fatality-free final quarter. The achievement  
of this milestone reminds us all that our goal of zero harm  
is achievable.
The global economic environment and its effects 
on prices presented the industry with significant 
challenges during 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 13
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report
a potentially prolonged iron ore price environment. As a 
result, Kumba is targeting a cash break-even position at an 
iron ore price of less than $40 per tonne.
In Brazil, our Nickel business has benefited from the tough 
decision, in 2014, to intervene to rebuild the two furnaces. 
The 12-month rebuild process was delivered ahead of plan 
and below budget and without a single lost time injury –  
a remarkable achievement for the entire team. First 
production was achieved in September 2015, and we  
have seen a 10% improvement in C1 unit costs compared 
with 2014, largely as a result of having two furnaces 
operating at their full design capacity.
DELIVERING PORTFOLIO COMMITMENTS
Our portfolio transformation is well on track, from c.65 
assets in 2013 to 45 today. We completed or announced 
$2.1 billion of disposal transactions in 2015, largely from  
the $1.6 billion completed sale of our 50% interest in 
Lafarge Tarmac to Lafarge SA, as agreed in 2014. This 
transaction brought the aggregate proceeds received  
by Anglo American for the sale of its Tarmac assets to 
approximately $2.5 billion since the decision to sell Tarmac 
in 2008. We have subsequently also announced the sale of 
our interests in the Tarmac Middle East businesses to Colas, 
part of the Bouygues Group.
In Copper, we completed the sale of our Norte assets 
(Mantoverde and Mantos Blancos) in Chile to an Audley 
Capital-led consortium for $300 million, with potential 
upside. We have since agreed a number of other 
transactions, including the sale of the Rustenburg platinum 
operations to Sibanye Gold for at least ZAR4.5 billion in 
nominal terms (approximately $275 million) and the sale of 
the Dartbrook thermal coal mine in Australia to Australian 
Pacific Coal for up to A$50 million (approximately 
$36 million).
Post the year end, we agreed the sale of the Callide  
thermal coal mine in Australia to Batchfire Resources for  
an undisclosed sum; this transaction remains subject to a 
number of conditions.
We have made significant progress, albeit in an environment 
that has been deteriorating at a faster pace. 
CREATING THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN
We are taking decisive action to sustainably improve our 
cash flows and materially reduce net debt, while focusing on 
our most competitive assets. We will focus the portfolio on 
our global leadership positions in diamonds and PGMs and 
our world class position in copper. This unique combination 
of assets, enhanced by our commercial marketing expertise, 
will have the advantage of benefiting from the ongoing shift 
away from infrastructure investment towards consumer-
driven demand, positioning Anglo American for these 
expanding markets. We will manage our other assets, in bulk 
commodities and other minerals, for cash generation or 
disposal over time.
We have a detailed series of measures, including  
the delivery of $1.9 billion of cost and productivity 
improvements, to deliver positive free cash flow in 2016  
and beyond, and an additional $3-4 billion in asset disposal 
proceeds. As a result, we are targeting a net debt reduction 
of $3 billion to less than $10 billion in 2016, assuming current 
commodity prices and exchange rates, and are targeting net 
debt of $6 billion in the medium term, supporting a return to 
a solid investment grade credit rating.
We of course recognise the current challenging 
environment in which to deliver disposals. We are already 
engaged with parties interested in several of our assets,  
but we will only complete those transactions which deliver 
appropriate value for our investors. So, while we have 
accelerated our disposal processes, and given our targeted 
positive free cash flow and our robust liquidity position, we 
will take appropriate time to secure value outcomes from the 
disposal programme.
The materially streamlined core portfolio of 16 assets  
will also enable a step change 50% reduction in central  
and global support costs and a c.60% reduction in indirect 
headcount as assets are sold and central support 
requirements are downsized and recalibrated. 
Our core portfolio creates a highly attractive, competitive 
and well balanced business, with the leverage of scale, 
technical expertise and mineral endowment options, which 
offer considerable upside potential over the long term.  
By taking such action, we are creating a Group that will  
also be significantly stronger in the short term – it will be 
streamlined, focused, with lower overhead and indirect 
costs and positioned to deliver robust profitability and  
cash flows through the cycle. 
PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE
During the year we maintained our work on developing 
strong relationships with host communities and continued 
the roll-out of our stringent Social Way standards across  
our businesses. Performance against Social Way 
requirements improved significantly in 2015, although a 
continuing focus will be required to achieve full compliance 
by the end of 2016. 
Just as 2015 was a difficult year for the mining industry, 
it was a challenging one for host communities, with the 
implementation of operational efficiency measures, the 
placing of mines onto care and maintenance and mine 
closures negatively affecting host communities, as 
evidenced by protests in mining communities across  
South Africa. In response, we have continued to roll out  
our new approach to socio-economic development which 
leverages our value chains and skills, focusing in particular 
on local procurement, enterprise development, and local 
government capacity development. We have also  
developed a unique diagnostic tool to measure progress 
and effectiveness in this critical area and this is being 
deployed at certain of our operations.  14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
economies, mainly reflecting some improvement in  
Europe. But emerging economies, particularly the large 
commodity producers, suffered from the effects of  
China’s marked slowdown.
Over the next few years, most forecasters expect a 
strengthening of global economic growth, albeit gradually, 
principally in response to firmer recoveries in the US and 
Europe. Consumer spending is picking up and business 
investment should strengthen. India’s economy should 
continue to grow more strongly, in contrast to more subdued 
activity in Brazil, Russia and South Africa.
China’s economy is adjusting to its ‘new normal’. Its 
aggregate growth rate is falling owing to several longer term 
trends: the end of its infrastructure investment boom, less 
potential for ‘catch-up’ growth, an ageing population, and a 
debt overhang in the corporate sector. Its demand for some 
commodities – notably those most related to infrastructure 
We have continued to engage in broader dialogues about 
society’s expectations of the mining industry, not least to 
ensure that we are listening to what our host communities 
need. The engagement between mining companies and 
faith groups continues to yield productive discussions, with 
events held in Rome and Cape Town and a number of site 
visits organised to help contextualise the nature of the 
challenge while also highlighting proven successes. We 
have also continued to integrate the Development Partner 
Framework, whose development was hosted by the  
Kellogg Innovation Network at Northwestern University,  
into our own approach to managing community relations. 
OUTLOOK
The world economy continued to struggle in 2015, with 
output growth falling short of expectations yet again.  
There were signs of encouragement in the advanced  
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION
DRIVING  
CHANGE
OUR MISSION  
AND VISION
$1.3bn
$1.3 billion
(1)
 of cost 
and productivity 
improvements 
delivered in 2015
$2.0bn
$2.0 billion  
capex reduction  
to $4.0 billion, 
including a 30% 
decrease in SIB 
capex in 2015
$2.1bn
$2.1 billion disposal 
transactions 
completed or 
announced in 2015
A number of 
operations across 
the Group have 
ceased or are 
ceasing production
>$400m
>$400 million 
underlying EBIT 
improvement  
from marketing 
activities since 
2013
~
$100m
Avoided energy 
costs in 201 5 driven 
by ECO
2
MAN  
and business 
improvement 
projects
1,500
Indirect support 
roles reduced by 
1,500 in 2015
FOCUS ON  
DELIVERY
Maintaining a highly 
competitive mindset 
with innovation and 
outstanding delivery at 
the forefront of how we 
drive change
DEVELOP CORE 
BUSINESS 
PROCESSES
Becoming industry 
leaders in critical areas, 
extracting maximum 
value from our assets 
and products
CREATE A HIGH 
PERFORMANCE  
CULTURE
Ensuring our 
organisation and people 
have the critical core 
skills to improve returns 
FOCUS THE 
PORTFOLIO
Prioritising time and 
capital on the assets 
that offer the most 
attractive long term 
value creation potential
DEFINING  
OUR FUTURE
A CHANGING 
WORLD
The ongoing  
economic slowdown  
in developing countries 
and the precipitous  
fall in commodity  
prices requires  
Anglo American to 
strengthen its balance 
sheet, while focusing  
its strategy, acting 
decisively to achieve 
our ambition…
“To create a resilient 
business that delivers 
robust profitability and 
sustainable, positive 
cash flows through the 
price cycle.”
OUR MISSION: 
Together, we create 
sustainable value 
that makes a real 
difference
OUR VISION:
To be partners  
in the future
(1) 
Excludes $0.8 billion volume downside at De Beers in response to market conditions. 15
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
investment such as iron ore and coal – is likely to remain 
weak for several years. But there are some encouraging 
signs of a gradual rebalancing of the economy. Consumer 
spending has been robust and many analysts expect this 
trend to continue, which implies a more positive and 
sustainable demand outlook for diamonds, PGMs and 
copper, amongst others.
THANK YOU
On behalf of my colleagues on the Group Management 
Committee, I would like to thank all our people across the 
business and our widespread and diverse stakeholders for 
their hard work and support. This is a period of considerable 
change in Anglo American’s long history of evolution and  
I appreciate the support of our stakeholders in helping to 
deliver the sustainable value that we all demand and expect.
I also thank the members of the Board and our chairman, 
Sir John Parker, for their wise counsel and unwavering 
support for the changes we are making to create the new 
Anglo American.
Mark Cutifani 
Chief Executive
DECISIVE  
ACTION
 In order to achieve our 
ambition, delivery of the 
measures set out on page  
1 1 will now form the focus  
of our strategic imperatives:
 • Focus on De Beers, PGMs 
and Copper
 • Portfolio transformation 
under way 
 • Cash flow enhancements  
to further strengthen the 
balance sheet
THE NEW  
ANGLO AMERICAN
A streamlined, competitive business 
with a clear and differentiated 
investment proposition.
Strategically advantaged world class assets:  
World class ore bodies with competitive industry 
cost positions and long reserve lives.
Materially streamlined business:  
Moving from 45 to 16 core assets across diamonds, 
PGMs and copper.
Well-balanced portfolio:  
No over-reliance from any one product group  
or geography and retaining the critical mass to 
compete effectively for, and deliver, the attractive 
future growth opportunities across the portfolio.
Sustainable profitability:  
With competitive cash cost profiles and long  
lives, the portfolio will be positioned to produce 
sustainable profitability through the cycle.
Differentiated, premium positioning for  
expanding consumer-driven markets:  
Enhanced by our marketing expertise, the Group 
will be positioned to benefit from changing demand 
patterns as the global economy evolves and as 
emerging market economies mature.
REMUNERATION
Anglo American’s remuneration policy for executive 
directors is designed to encourage delivery of the Group’s 
strategy in a responsible and sustainable manner. The main 
elements of the remuneration package are basic salary, 
annual bonus and long term incentive plan (LTIP). 
ANNUAL BONUS 
      
Annual bonus performance measures include:
 • 50% on underlying earnings per share (EPS). EPS is one 
of the Group’s key financial measures of performance and 
is set on an annual basis to ensure targets are demanding 
yet realistic 
 • The remaining measures are non-financial and include 
project delivery, capital allocation, business improvement, 
stakeholder engagement and employee development 
 • A deduction is applied if safety targets are not met. 
To help ensure sustainable long term performance, 60% 
of any annual bonus is deferred into shares for a minimum  
of three years and is subject to clawback. 
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
  
The LTIP performance measures are aligned to our strategic 
objectives over a three-year performance period. Vested 
LTIP awards are subject to clawback and must be held for  
an additional two years, to encourage alignment of executive 
and shareholder interests. 
The LTIP performance measures and weightings are:
 • 25% Group total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the 
Euromoney Global Mining Index
 • 25% Group TSR relative to the FTSE 100 index
 • 50% attributable ROCE to reflect the strategic  
focus on disciplined capital allocation.
For more information go to 
Key Performance Indicators page 34
  Safety and Health 
 Environment 
 Socio-political 
 People 
 Production 
 Cost 
 Financial
We measure our 
performance 
through our  
pillars of value 
which underpin 
everything we do 
