 ARM Strategic Report 2015 16
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
In 2015 ARM celebrated its 25th year. From the 
start, we knew that embedding intelligence into 
chips to create smart devices was the future of 
computing. We didn’t know which markets would 
take off ﬁrst, or how the technology was going 
to be used, though we always knew that ARM 
was going to change how and where computing 
happens, and that this was going to lead to a 
revolution in the digital products that we all use 
every day.
Our ﬁrst real success was in early digital mobile 
phones. We were in the right place, at the right time, 
with the right technology. In the early 1990s no one 
knew that mobile phones were going to become 
the consumer electronic product that everyone 
would want to own, or that many semiconductor 
vendors would want an energy-efficient smart 
microprocessor to power their mobile phone chips.
The companies that used our technology in these 
early chips then started to use ARM processors 
in chips for other end markets. That led us to 
invest both in new technology that could be used 
in powerful applications, and to also invest in 
applications which needed much smaller processors 
such as the tiny microcontrollers that will enable the 
Internet of Things. The result is that ARM technology 
is now broadly adopted across many devices from 
sensors to smartphones and, in the future, into 
servers too. 
ARM is enabling the companies that will build the 
chips for this enormous and growing market and we 
are investing in our business today to take advantage 
of that opportunity.
CEO’s strategic perspective
Investing for long-term growth
*Based on ARM and market data.
ARM is becoming 
increasingly 
diversiﬁed beyond 
mobile phones. 
32%
*
ARM’s total  
market share  
in 2015
Mobile  
computers
>85%
Storage
>90%
Wearables
>95%
Networking 
infrastructure
15 %
Embedded 
intelligence
25% We always knew that ARM  
was going to change how and 
where computing happens.
17 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Strategy Performance ce Overv view Financials Com mmitment ARM’s strategy 
enables the creation 
of sustainable 
revenue growth
This has  
enabled us to 
create a sustainable 
business, ﬁt for  
the long term
Adding value 
to increase 
royalty revenue 
per processor
Entering into  
new and adjacent  
markets
Making it easy  
for customers to 
continue to use 
our products
Attracting new 
partners to license 
our technology
Helping our 
customers to  
increase their 
market share
Increasing the  
number of 
ARM processors  
per chip
Creating new  
revenue streams  
from adjacent  
markets
Attracting new 
Partners to license 
our technology
Increasing  
the value of 
ARM technology  
in smart devices
Gaining or  
maintaining share 
in long-term 
growth markets
ARM Strategic Report 2015 18
Strategy for long-term growth
ARM is continuing to invest for long-term sustainable 
growth. We are investing in our current product 
portfolio, developing new processors that hit the 
right performance at the right power and with the 
right features for both existing and new markets.
We are investing in new products that will generate 
new revenue streams; some will be created through 
organic investments in our engineering teams, and 
some through acquisitions to accelerate time to 
market. In 2015 we acquired WiCentric Inc., Sunrise 
Micro Devices Inc. and Discretix, Inc. (trading as 
Sansa Security, Inc.), which have expanded our 
portfolio of products for the Internet of Things. 
We also acquired the business of Carbon Design 
Systems, Inc. which provides tools that our 
semiconductor Partners use to more efficiently 
design highly complex chips.
For ARM and our Partners to be successful, we need 
a broad ecosystem of companies that are building 
their businesses utilising ARM technology and 
supporting the ARM architecture. We are investing 
in this ecosystem to accelerate the adoption of new 
ARM technology for the markets that we are already 
in, and also for the markets that we are and will be 
growing into.
Investing in new technology is business as usual
ARM’s business has been created around developing 
new and innovative technology to meet the demands 
of future consumer products and enterprise 
systems. Most of our engineering team is focused 
on developing the roadmaps for the product-lines 
that we have today, and we are working closely with 
market-leading customers to identify their future 
needs. About 17% of our engineers, led by our CTO, 
Mike Muller, are looking out even longer term, at 
what technologies we may be using in  
10–20 years’ time. 
We have complemented our own R&D with 
acquisitions that can accelerate our existing business 
or become the seed for new technologies and 
products, servicing new markets and customers. 
These are often bolt-on acquisitions that we can then 
scale up to become globally competitive. We also 
look at more established businesses that may come 
with existing revenue streams and ecosystems that 
we can combine with our own.
Although a lot of this investment is in our engineering 
teams, we also invest in the supporting people, 
systems and infrastructure that enable our 
engineering teams to develop, deliver and support 
the next generation of products.
CEO’s strategic perspective
Continued…
Creating sustainable growth Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 19
In the past the vast majority of our people have been 
devoted to developing technology for the mobile 
market, and that investment has continued to grow. 
The mobile market remains important for us in part 
because many of the products we build for mobile 
devices end up being used in other markets.
We are also growing our headcount, with new 
engineering teams building products speciﬁcally 
for markets beyond mobile. We have grown this 
headcount by a factor of three since 2012.
ARM processor engineering headcount*
Mobile computing Non-mobile
12
13
14
2015
16 forecast
*Resource allocation based on an estimate of 
“most likely initial use”. Most ARM technology can 
be used in both mobile and non mobile devices
900
625
1300
750
1600
1250
1800
1625
550
1100
Strategy for the future
In 2015 we announced our strategy to capture 
greater revenues in the future by increasing our 
investments today. In the next few sections, I will 
outline our strategy in each of our target markets.
Leadership in mobile computing
The mobile market remains ARM’s most important 
market, responsible for nearly half of all ARM-based 
chip shipments. Although we expect smartphone 
unit growth to be slower in the future, it remains 
a major growth driver for ARM over the next 
few years.
ARM expanding opportunity in mobile
The number of chips going into mobile devices, 
and the sophistication of those chips, is increasing. 
For ARM, this creates an opportunity to achieve 
higher royalty revenues from each smart 
mobile device. 
Competition amongst smartphone handset vendors 
is driving innovation. Smartphone vendors now 
want to introduce a new premium model every 
year. Therefore, semiconductor companies have to 
develop more sophisticated chips every year, and 
are demanding a new platform of ARM technology 
to develop those chips. ARM is therefore creating a 
roadmap of products that will provide a complete 
system of technology on an annual basis to enable 
each new generation of chips for mobile devices. 
In 2015, this strategy delivered increased royalty 
revenue per smart device.
ARM has been investing in its mobile technology 
roadmap for nearly 25 years, and we will continue 
to develop advanced technologies for smart mobile 
devices. This will enable us to retain a high market 
share, whilst beneﬁting from higher royalty revenue 
per chip as companies choose to deploy more 
advanced ARM technology.
ARM’s strategy to increase royalty revenue per smart device
ARMv8-A ARMv8-A is the eighth version of the ARM architecture. It is more 
advanced than the previous generation, introducing 64-bit computing 
and improved security features. ARM typically receives a higher royalty 
percentage from chips based on ARMv8-A technology. ARM started 
to license this technology in 2009, and by the end of 2015 had signed 
89 licences with 48 companies. 
ARMv8-A is gaining share in smartphones and tablets. In 2015 about 
50% of all smartphones sold were based on ARMv8-A, up from about 
10% for the whole of 2014. 
More cores per chip ARM can receive a slightly higher royalty per chip with higher core 
counts. In 2015 nearly all Android smartphones had an ARM-based 
application processor that was either quad-core or octa-core. In 2014, 
nearly all of the chips used in Android phones had an ARM-based 
application processor that was dual-core or quad-core. So in 2015 
we saw a signiﬁcant increase in the number of cores per application 
processor in smartphones, and we beneﬁted from the higher royalty 
revenue that generated.
Mali graphics ARM’s Mali graphics processor enables an immersive experience for 
games and brings user interfaces to life. Initially graphics processors 
were primarily found in high-end PCs and games consoles. Today, 
every smartphone has an embedded graphics processor and they are 
increasingly being designed into vehicle dashboards, cameras and even 
supercomputers. Mali is also royalty-bearing and has been gaining share. 
ARM has signed 132 Mali licences with 65 semiconductor companies.
In 2015 Mali became the highest shipping graphics processor in the 
smartphone market with a 40% market share. ARM Strategic Report 2015 20
Accelerating share gains in 
network infrastructure 
The networking infrastructure equipment market is 
an exciting high-value market where we expect to 
see an increasing deployment of ARM-based chips. 
Today ARM has a relatively low share of chips 
shipping into networking infrastructure. However, 
ARM has been developing technology that can 
deliver the performance required for the next 
generation of networking infrastructure equipment, 
and all of the major semiconductor companies 
that make chips for this market have licensed an 
ARM processor. 
With many semiconductor companies building 
highly differentiated chips, all based on the ARM 
architecture, network operators will be able to run 
the same software across their system regardless of 
whether it utilises a chip optimised for base-station 
equipment, a router or a switch. This will make it 
more efficient for operators to deploy new services 
across their network, and these services will enable 
them to generate new sources of revenues.
During 2015, ARM announced that it was increasing 
its investment to accelerate its market share 
in networking infrastructure. These additional 
investments will be in three areas:
ARM’s strategy to gain market share  
in networking infrastructure
Building better 
chip technology 
ARM is investing in the analysis of new 
workloads that networking chips will need 
to undertake, which will help our Partners 
to build more optimised chips and ARM 
to design more advanced processors 
and other key technologies for future 
networking workloads.
Creation of 
new software
Foundational software that operators and 
enterprises will be using to implement 
their networks is being developed through 
industry-wide collaborations. ARM is 
increasing its investment in some of these 
collaborations to accelerate the availability 
of critical components.
Faster 
deployments of 
new technology
ARM is increasing its engagement with 
operators and OEMs to help them design 
these new technologies into future 
networks, enterprises and data centres.
Expected result of additional investments
Increasing investment now will create an opportunity 
to accelerate our future market share in networking 
infrastructure. Previously we had indicated that we 
were targeting our market share in 2020 to be in the 
range 30–35%. We are now increasing this target to 
be around 45%.
Accelerating gains in servers 
The server market is another new high-value 
market for ARM technology where we currently 
have a very low share. Changes within the market 
are creating new opportunities for ARM’s Partners. 
Our customers are creating application-speciﬁc chips 
that are optimised for a speciﬁc set of workloads and 
thus provide the right amount of performance for 
lower power than traditional server equipment.
In 2015, ARM had less than a 1% share of the server 
market. We have seen progress during the year 
with six companies manufacturing ARM-based 
server chips, and we expect another four to start 
manufacturing in 2016. We have also seen progress 
in the software ecosystem, with Canonical’s  
Ubuntu OS software now commercially available, 
and there are a large number of companies 
which have ARM-based server software available 
for developers to start working on. In addition, 
major server users are evaluating ARM-based 
technology in cloud deployments, in data 
centres, in high-performance computing and 
in enterprise applications.
For some speciﬁc applications, companies are already 
seeing the beneﬁts of using an ARM-based server 
system; see PayPal example in the box below.
During 2015, ARM announced that it was increasing 
its investment to accelerate its market share in 
servers. These additional investments will be in 
three areas:
ARM’s strategy to gain  
market share in servers
Building better 
chip technology 
ARM is investing in the analysis of the 
workloads that server chips will need to 
undertake. This will help our Partners 
to build more optimised chips and ARM 
to design more advanced processors for 
future servers.
Optimising  
software
ARM is investing in additional software 
engineering resources to help accelerate 
the porting and optimising of software to 
support ARM-based server systems.
Faster 
deployments of 
new technology
ARM is increasing its engagement with 
companies which deploy server technology 
to help them design ARM-based server 
systems more quickly.
Expected result of additional investments
By increasing investment now we believe that we 
can accelerate our market share gains in servers. 
Previously we had indicated that we were targeting 
our market share in 2020 to be around 20%; we are 
now increasing this target to be around 25%.
CEO’s strategic perspective
Continued…
Initial server deployment
PayPal have created a fraud detection 
system using ARM-based server systems. 
Compared to traditional data centre 
equipment there were signiﬁcant savings 
in cost, power and ﬂoorspace.
Half the price to buy Seventh the cost to run Tenth the size
Traditional data centre infrastructure Data centre infrastructure based on ARMv8-A technology Creating new revenue streams 
from the Internet of Things (Io T)
The Internet of Things is a potentially huge market 
consisting of billions of sensors and devices all 
connected together; embedding intelligence into 
industrial automation, transport systems, national 
energy grids, as well as our homes, and potentially 
enabling a revolution in manufacturing, agriculture, 
the provision of medical services, and the running of 
the entire infrastructure of a city.
The chips that are being deployed into IoT devices 
are mainly microcontrollers and wireless connectivity 
chips. These are large and established chip markets 
where ARM has a growing share. In 2015, our share 
of the microcontroller market was about 25% and 
our share of the wireless connectivity chip market 
was over 60%. ARM processors are therefore being 
widely adopted as the architecture for many of the 
chips being deployed to create IoT.
The Internet of Things can bring huge beneﬁts across 
the world, but recent history has demonstrated that 
computer networks can be targeted by hackers who 
want to disrupt the legitimate users of that network. 
The Internet of Things has to be built from the 
beginning with security as a key requirement.
ARM is therefore investing in new technology that 
will provide the building blocks for a secure network 
of embedded devices, and this will help to increase 
our revenue opportunity from this new market.
ARM’s strategy to create new revenue 
streams from the Internet of Things
Securing the chip
ARM is investing in technology that will 
enhance security even for chips costing 
less than <$1. From early 2016, ARM is 
introducing new processors designed 
for microcontrollers and smart sensors 
that will help secure data inside tiny low-
cost chips.
Securing the 
communications
In 2015, ARM announced the acquisitions 
of three companies that have provided the 
seed for our Cordio radio and mbed OS 
software. Together these technologies 
create a communications channel between 
IoT devices and the network, and also 
improve the security of that channel.
Securing the 
connection to 
the server
ARM is investing in its mbed Device Server 
software that will manage a network of 
IoT devices throughout their lifetime, from 
deployment to providing remote updates 
to retirement.
In addition ARM is investing to create an ecosystem 
of Partners that are developing complementary 
products that utilise ARM’s technology.
Expected result of additional 
investments in IoT
By investing in new technology to help secure 
the Internet of Things, we have the opportunity 
to generate additional revenue streams. We are 
licensing mbed Device Server software as well as 
getting additional royalty revenue from embedded 
chips that contain more ARM technology such as 
processors, physical IP and our new Cordio radio IP.
Although we are conﬁdent that the Internet of 
Things is a signiﬁcant opportunity for ARM, there 
are uncertainties too. We do not know how fast 
the Internet of Things will grow, how big it will 
eventually become, or who will be the market 
leaders. However, we would rather be investing in it 
now; creating technology that we believe will form 
a key component for many connected devices, and 
creating the new ecosystem of companies that will 
provide the products and systems from which these 
networks will be formed. We want ARM to be a 
market leader in the Internet of Things, and the only 
way to achieve that is to be fully involved.
Investing to shape  
the connected world 
Over the past 25 years ARM’s strategy has been 
to invest in the energy-efficient technologies that 
have changed how and where computing happens. 
Together with our semiconductor Partners, we have 
helped to shape this connected world. At ARM, we 
continue to evolve our strategy, and are further 
investing in new technologies that are taking us 
into some of the fastest growing and most rapidly 
changing markets. We believe that the connected 
world in which we live will lead to increasing market 
share, increasing revenues and a sustainable business 
ﬁt for long-term success.
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
Connected embedded devices are becoming critical 
components in business networks, providing new revenue 
opportunities for many companies, such as street-side electric 
vehicle charging points. This is also creating new opportunities 
for cyber criminals to disrupt markets to steal information or 
siphon away money. ARM’s mbed Device Server will help to 
improve the security in an IoT network.
Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 21 Find out more about innovation  
in the automotive industry, visit: 
www.arm.com/markets
22 ARM Strategic Report 2015
Making journeys 
safer and smoother
Technology can make journeys by car even safer. 
Cameras inside the car can warn the driver if 
they are showing signs of tiredness, or becoming 
distracted. Cameras outside the car look to 
understand what may be happening and provide 
additional information to the driver; identifying 
road signs, or whether a lane is accidentally being 
crossed, or another vehicle might be in the driver’s 
blind spot. Eventually this may lead to a car that is 
capable of driving itself.
By 2020, we estimate that the market for smart 
automotive chips will be more than $15 billion, 
including infotainment, assisted driving technology 
and improved safety features. By communicating with 
each other, cars can give 
immediate information 
about speed and location, 
and alerts when braking 
or changing lane.
Cars will be more 
self aware, improving 
blind spot detection, 
lane following and 
collision avoidance.
Roadside signs will provide 
additional information about 
traffic conditions ahead.
23 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Performance Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove e Ove Ove Ov Ove Ove ve ve Ove Ove Ove Ove Ov Ov Ove O Ove e O O e Overvi rvi rvi r rvi rvi rvi rvi rvi rv rvi i rv rvi rv rv vi v rv r r r rvi v r r ew ew ew ew ew ew ew w ew ew ew ew e ew e ew e ew e ew w Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str r St tr St S St Str Str Str S S S Str Str Str t S S r r tr Str Str St S Str rate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate t t ate at ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate e at a ate e ate at ate a ate a at tegy gy gy gy y gy gy gy gy gy gy gy y gy y g g gy gy g g gy gy gy gy gy y gy g gy g gy gy gy gy y gy y gy y gy Fin Fi Fin in F Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin n Fin Fin n F Fi in Fin n n F Fin n Fin n Fin Fin Fin i anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc c anc anc anc n anc anc anc a an anc an nc anc nc n n anc c anc n anc nc c anc anc anc an an ancial al ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial al ial ial al al l l i ial a a a al ial al ial al ial l ial l al ls s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com om C Com Com Com Com Co om Com Com Com C Com Com Com Co Com Com C Com Com Com m Co om Com C Co om C C C m Com m C Commit mit mit mit mit mit mit mit mi mit mit mit mit mit mit mit mi m mit mit mit mit t t mit mit m mi m mit t t t m m mi m m mit i it it tmen men men men men men e men men men men men men men n men men e men n men m me men e e en n men me men men men en en me men me m men me e men nt t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t
