 Stuart Chambers
Chairman
Chairman’s overview
Creating the technology that  
shapes the connected world
ARM is the world’s leading semiconductor IP 
company. We develop and license technology 
that is at the heart of many of the digital 
electronic devices sold each year, from sensors 
to smartphones to servers. ARM’s energy-efficient 
microprocessor technology is helping to shape 
the world we live in. Smart chips are digitally 
connecting people with each other and also with 
the connected products that we use every day, 
creating a network of intelligent devices that 
enables us to get things done more quickly and 
easily. We have embraced the rapid pace of change 
in this increasingly digital world by developing 
technology that brings new possibilities to a 
globally connected population.
ARM is a fast-growing business in a dynamic and 
competitive market. In 2015 our customers reported 
that they had shipped around 15 billion ARM-
based chips, an increase of 23% on the prior year. 
Just under half of those chips were shipped into 
mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, 
where ARM has a high market share. An increasing 
number of chips were shipped into new markets, 
including networking infrastructure and embedded 
intelligent devices such as microcontrollers and chips 
for the Internet of Things. ARM also signed 173 
new processor licences which will underpin royalty 
revenues for years to come.
ARM has performed strongly in 2015. Group dollar 
revenues increased by 15% and normalised diluted 
earnings per share by 25% to 30.2p (IFRS: 33% to 
23.9p). The Board has recommended an increase in 
the full year dividend for 2015 of 25%, demonstrating 
the Board’s conﬁdence in ARM’s long-term growth 
opportunities, and, during the year, approved the 
buyback of 9.0 million shares.
During the year, ARM announced that it is 
accelerating its investment into developing 
technologies for networking infrastructure, 
servers and the Internet of Things. These are all 
rapidly growing markets, and by investing now we 
can increase ARM’s opportunity in future years, 
securing greater long-term returns for shareholders. 
The Internet of Things will drive demand for a huge 
number of smart sensors and chips, and we will 
work closely with our Partners to ensure that many 
of these are ARM-based. The growth rate and size 
of the market are still uncertain; nevertheless we 
believe that this is an exciting opportunity that will 
beneﬁt ARM today and in the future.
$1,489m
Dollar revenues
+15%
30.2p
Normalised 
EPS growth
+25%
8.78p
Dividend growth
+25%
ARM Strategic Report 2015 6 By investing now we 
can increase ARM’s 
opportunity in future 
years, securing greater 
long-term returns 
for shareholders.
Board changes
As announced in 2014, Tim Score, ARM’s Chief 
Financial Officer, retired in June 2015. Chris Kennedy 
has been appointed as CFO and joined the Board of 
ARM Holdings plc as a director from 1 September 
2015. Chris brings to ARM more than 20 years of 
international experience in senior ﬁnance roles in 
a broad range of sectors, most recently at easyJet 
plc where he has served as CFO and member of 
the Board since 2010. Prior to easyJet Chris worked 
at EMI plc. 
Lawton Fitt and Stephen Pusey both joined the 
Board on 1 September 2015 as independent non-
executive directors. Stephen has many years of 
experience managing global technology companies, 
including Vodafone Group plc from which he 
recently retired as Chief Technology Officer. 
Lawton has deep ﬁnancial experience, having held a 
broad range of board positions, and was previously 
a partner at Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Kathleen O’Donovan, senior independent  
non-executive director and chair of the Audit 
Committee, retired from the ARM Board in 
December 2015, having completed nine years’ 
service. Lawton Fitt has replaced Kathleen as 
chairman of the Audit Committee; and Andy 
Green is now the senior independent director.
On behalf of the Board, the management, and the 
wider team, we thank Tim for service throughout 
his 13 years as CFO at ARM, Kathleen for her nine 
years, including chairman of the Audit Committee 
and senior independent director, and we welcome 
Chris, Lawton and Stephen to the Board.
The above changes are consistent with our aim of 
having a Board with the right balance of skills and 
expertise. Together we have reﬁned ARM’s strategy 
for increasing investment over the next few years in 
order to accelerate future market share.
Finally, I would like to thank all of ARM’s employees 
for their effort and contribution in 2015. I look 
forward to seeing ARM continue to develop new 
technology that will shape the future for our 
increasingly connected world.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman
Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 7 ARMv8-A
Next generation 
phones will be 
both aware of 
their location and 
context (i.e. home, 
office, school, etc.).
Around 50% of 
smartphones sold 
in 2015 contained 
an ARMv8-A based 
processor. 
Faster connectivity 
and reduced 
latency will enable 
new services.
8 ARM Strategic Report 2015
