 GEORGE WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6 Strategic report | Chief Executive’s statement |
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
WE DELIVERED A STRONG 
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE  
THIS YEAR
I am pleased with the  
trading performance and  
the progress made by each  
of our businesses this year.
Grocery, Agriculture, Ingredients and 
Retail all increased their profits. Sugar 
profit was, as expected, substantially 
lower than last year as a result of much 
weaker euro-denominated EU sugar 
prices, but the business made great 
strides in reducing operating costs.
Group revenue declined by 1 % to £12.8bn 
but was 2% higher at constant currency. 
Adjusted operating profit was 6%  
lower at £1,092m, and 4% lower at 
constant currency.
The international diversity of the group 
means that our businesses operate  
and transact in many currencies and are 
therefore subject to both translational and 
transactional currency exposures. During 
the financial year, against a basket of 
currencies, the euro and emerging market 
currencies weakened significantly and the 
US dollar and sterling both strengthened. 
The full year impact of these movements 
in exchange rates on the translation of 
overseas results into sterling was £31m.   OPEN FOR BUSINESS IN BOSTON!
Strategic report
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7
The development of our Grocery 
businesses this year was reflected in  
the improvement in the overall operating 
margin to 9%. The acquisition of Dorset 
Cereals has brought us a strong consumer 
brand with exciting growth potential  
that complements Jordans and Ryvita. 
Twinings Ovaltine had yet another year of 
excellent profit growth with much activity 
promoting the premium qualities of the 
Twinings brand. After a difficult first half  
of the year which was affected by higher 
cost and poor quality raw materials, I am 
very encouraged by the progress made by 
our Australian meat business, Don KRC, 
both in volume gains and improved factory 
efficiency. Pricing became tougher for our 
bread businesses in the UK and Australia. 
Volumes for the UK business increased 
steadily during the year leading to high 
utilisation of our well-invested bakeries.
Profit in Ingredients recovered even more 
strongly this year as the new management 
team at AB Mauri, our yeast and bakery 
ingredients business, made further 
progress in reducing its cost base and 
restructuring its operations in China and 
Europe. A major contribution was also 
made by our enzymes business which  
had a highly successful year with growth 
in a number of its markets.
In order to understand the underlying 
operating performance of each of our 
businesses, in the operating review we 
have referred to year-on-year changes  
at constant currency.
Food commodity price deflation was the 
primary reason for the decline in revenues 
in each of our food businesses this year 
and was also the major driver of the big 
decline in profit at AB Sugar.
This is the third year of significant profit 
decline for AB Sugar as a consequence  
of falling EU and world sugar prices. It is 
encouraging that EU prices have now 
stabilised and the steps we have taken, 
and continue to take, to reduce our cost 
base, are aimed at creating a profitable 
business at these price levels and in a 
post-quota environment in the EU.
We took the opportunity to increase  
our ownership of Vivergo Fuels this year.  
This is a well-invested, cost-competitive 
asset, with a promising longer-term 
outlook. As the existing supplier of  
grain to the business through Frontier 
Agriculture and as the seller of its distillers’ 
grains through AB Connect, we are well 
placed to maximise the returns from  
this business.
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s statement |
AB Agri delivered another great result and 
deserves credit for its consistently strong 
performance over the last five years  
driven by innovation, diversification and 
geographic expansion.
The exciting expansion of Primark is  
very much on track with the addition of 
nearly one million square feet of selling 
space, the opening of our first store in  
the US at the end of the year, and the 
announcement that we will be opening in 
Italy next year. Trading in France was very 
strong and built on the highly successful 
market entry in 2014. Like-for-like sales 
growth was good at 1%, albeit held back 
by the effects of a strong store opening 
programme in the Netherlands and 
Germany. Following Primark’s exceptional 
trading last year, we saw a return to  
a more normal level of markdowns this  
year and margin was lower as a result.
George Weston
Chief Executive
On 10 September 2015 Primark  
planted its first flag on US soil with  
the opening of a 77,000 sq ft store  
at Downtown Crossing in Boston.
A DIVERSIFIED 
BUSINESS
With operations in 48 countries and  
a diverse portfolio of businesses of  
varying scale, operational decisions are 
made locally by the people with the  
best knowledge of their markets.
