 The Board of Directors has sought to ensure that 
AstraZeneca’s achievements in 2015 were underpinned 
by strong corporate governance. Our efforts were also 
focused on ensuring that the Group’s future success  
is supported by corporate governance best practice.
I would like to thank Graham Chipchase  
for assuming the role of Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee after John Varley 
stood down at last year’s AGM, having 
spent nine years as a Non-Executive 
Director. The Directors’ Remuneration 
Report can be found from page 103 and 
Graham’s Committee plays an essential role 
in ensuring that the interests of the Executive 
Directors and other senior leaders are 
aligned with the interests of shareholders 
over the short, medium and longer term.
Thanks are also due to Bruce Burlington 
who became Chairman of the Science 
Committee during the year, in succession  
to Nancy Rothwell, who also stood down at 
last year’s AGM, having spent nine years as 
a Board member. This Committee provides 
assurance to the Board on the quality, 
competitiveness and integrity of our science.
Both of these Committees were 
strengthened further during the year when 
Shriti Vadera and Cori Bargmann (who was 
elected for the first time as a Non-Executive 
Director at our AGM in 2015) became 
members respectively of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Science Committee.
Governance in support of our strategy
In his introduction to the Strategic Report, 
our Chief Executive Officer, Pascal Soriot, 
outlined a successful year for AstraZeneca 
in implementing our strategy. The chart 
overleaf summarises the governance 
structure we have in place to ensure that  
the Board is able properly to discharge  
its responsibilities in setting that strategy,  
as well as monitoring and reviewing its 
progress, and ensuring that we manage our 
risks and carry out business responsibly. 
Another important part of our work  
is listening to the views of external 
stakeholders, whether they are medical 
practitioners and clinical researchers, or 
representatives of investors and financial 
institutions. We also maintain an active 
dialogue with shareholders about executive 
remuneration. Looking ahead, we will be 
spending more time considering succession 
planning to ensure we have the leaders  
we need to deliver our goal of sustainable 
growth over the longer term.
Committees of the Board
The Board’s work is supported by four 
principal Committees and I am grateful  
to their members, and especially their 
Chairmen, for the role they play in the  
robust governance of AstraZeneca.
John Varley had also undertaken the 
important role of Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director. I am grateful to 
Rudy Markham for taking on this role.
Transparent reporting
Rudy also chairs the Audit Committee which 
has a crucial role in reviewing our financial 
reporting, risk management and financial 
controls. We aim to be as transparent as we 
can in our reporting and, with that in mind, 
in preparing our viability statement which is 
on page 21 of this Annual Report, we also 
reviewed our principal risks, how we 
describe them and the information we 
provide about them. I am grateful to the 
members of the Audit Committee for  
their thorough work in undertaking a 
competitive tender process for our external 
audit services in line with best practice.  
As a result of this, the Board will be 
recommending the appointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP at our  
AGM in 2017 .
A sustainable business
Geneviève Berger is another valued 
member of the Board and the Science 
Committee. She also performs a vital role  
in overseeing AstraZeneca’s sustainability 
framework and reporting to the Board.
For AstraZeneca, sustainability means 
implementing our strategy and delivering  
the targets we have set ourselves in a way 
that promotes the long-term health of 
AstraZeneca, the societies in which we 
work, and the planet. Employees and 
external stakeholders expect it and 
AstraZeneca’s future ability to get new 
medicines to patients in the most efficient 
Chairman’s Statement  
 …we are integrating 
sustainability into how we 
measure the success with 
which we are delivering our 
strategic priorities.”
Corporate Governance
82 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 how we measure the success with which 
we are delivering our strategic priorities.  
We need to build on that by focusing  
our work and ensuring that sustainability 
thinking is part of our culture and embedded 
into the way we do business.
A challenging business environment
In his Financial Review on page 62, our 
Chief Financial Officer, Marc Dunoyer, 
reported on the accelerating performance  
of our Growth Platforms. He also reported 
on the continued impact of the loss of 
exclusivity as medicines such as Nexium 
and Crestor continue to lose exclusivity in 
key markets, including the US and Europe. 
Such a loss of exclusivity is a normal part of 
an innovative medicine’s life-cycle. It is 
expected and we plan for it.
Even as we plan for loss of exclusivity,  
we continue to face challenging market 
conditions. The world pharmaceutical market 
is growing and underlying demographic 
trends remain favourable. Nonetheless, many 
of the drivers of demand and supply in the 
sector are under pressure. On the demand 
side, we face increased competition from 
generic drugs. In addition, securing an 
appropriate level of reward for our medicines 
is becoming more difficult in the face of 
pricing pressures. On the supply side, the 
industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity 
challenge. Costs have risen and, although  
in 2015 the FDA approved the highest 
number of new medicines since 1996,  
we still need to improve the probability  
of success of our projects.
way depends on it. Moreover, it helps  
attract and retain talented employees and 
enhances trust in our business and our 
reputation. In acting in this way, we not  
only protect our licence to operate but also 
deliver value to those who benefit from our 
medicines, our shareholders, society and 
the environment.
Achievements recognised
AstraZeneca has been working for over  
a decade to achieve business success  
in a responsible manner. For example,  
we have delivered safety, health and 
environment improvements and created a 
diverse workforce; we have promoted the 
development of our products in an ethical 
way; and taken steps to broaden access  
to our medicines. I am also pleased to 
report that, in 2015, we met all our 
obligations under our five-year Corporate 
Integrity Agreement in the US, which has 
now come to an end. Maintaining high 
ethical standards in the way we conduct  
our business remains a priority.
Our achievements were once again 
recognised in 2015 with an improved score 
of 84% (79% in 2014) in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index. Our score contributed 
to the ‘Silver Class’ rating awarded to us  
for our sustainability performance by 
RobecoSAM, the respected sustainability 
investment specialist.
Looking ahead, if we are to be among the 
best performers, there is more we need to 
do. We have refreshed and strengthened 
our governance arrangements, as outlined 
in the section, In the wider world from page 
55, and we are integrating sustainability into 
Return to shareholders
Consistent with our progressive dividend 
policy, the Board has recommended a 
second interim dividend of $1.90 per 
Ordinary Share. This brings the dividend  
for the full year to $2.80 per Ordinary Share. 
The Board’s aim is to continue to strike  
a balance between the interests of the 
business, financial creditors and our 
shareholders. After providing for investment 
in the business, supporting the progressive 
dividend policy and maintaining a strong 
investment-grade credit rating, the Board 
will keep under review investment in 
earnings-accretive opportunities.
Appreciation
Before closing, and on behalf of the Board, I 
want to thank the employees of AstraZeneca. 
Their outstanding efforts helped make 2015  
a great year for science and patients. In 
particular, I want to express my appreciation 
to Pascal and all the members of the Senior 
Executive Team for their leadership in 
delivering a successful year.
Leif Johansson 
Chairman
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
We have prepared this Annual Report  
with reference to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the UK 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in 
September 2014.
This Corporate Governance Report 
(together with other sections of this  
Annual Report) describes how we apply  
the main principles of good governance  
in the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
We have complied throughout the 
accounting period with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, which 
is available on the FRC’s website. 
 www.frc.co.uk
83 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance
