 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
importantly, offer patients a new treatment 
option in a disease where very few  
solutions exist.
Another significant development in 
Oncology came with our agreement in 
December to invest in a majority equity 
stake in Acerta Pharma, a company 
focused on haematology which represents 
a natural fit with our existing Oncology 
pipeline. The acquisition provides us with 
access to acalabrutinib (ACP-196), a 
potential best-in-class small molecule  
oral BTK inhibitor, which is expected to 
transform the treatment landscape for  
B-cell malignancies, the most common 
forms of blood cancers, and has potential in 
solid tumours and autoimmune diseases.
The acquisition of Acerta Pharma  
will also reinforce our growing position in 
haematology – building on our agreement 
with Celgene, in April, to develop durvalumab 
across a range of blood cancers.
Innovation in Cardiovascular and 
Metabolic diseases
Also in December, we completed our 
acquisition of ZS Pharma. This transaction 
provides access to the potassium-binding 
compound ZS-9, a potential best-in-class 
treatment for hyperkalaemia (high potassium 
levels in the bloodstream). The acquisition 
represents a good fit with our pipeline and 
portfolio in Cardiovascular and Metabolic 
diseases (CVMD), which focuses on 
reducing morbidity, mortality and organ 
damage by addressing multiple risk factors 
across cardiovascular disease, diabetes  
and chronic kidney disease. 
The first stage of our strategic journey 
involved strengthening our product pipeline 
and building our Growth Platforms. We are 
now well into the second stage of that 
journey, as we manage a transitional period 
of patent expiries, and are on track to 
continue driving our Growth Platforms  
and launch our new products.
The increased momentum we built in  
2015 was exemplified by a number of 
developments towards the end of the  
year in each of our main therapy areas  
that will help deliver our strategy.
Leadership in Oncology
The first of those events was the approval  
in November of Tagrisso in the US. This 
approval marks a significant milestone in 
AstraZeneca’s journey, and in our leadership 
in Oncology. Tagrisso is the first treatment 
approved for patients with a very specific 
form of non-small cell lung cancer who 
present with a genetic mutation in the 
epidermal growth factor receptor but also 
have a secondary mutation, T790M. Its 
story is remarkable and, as shown over,  
it demonstrates our ability to successfully 
deliver our pipeline and, even more 
2015 was an exceptional year for AstraZeneca as we 
made significant progress in meeting both our near-  
and longer-term strategic goals. Building on the solid 
foundations of the previous two years, our success during 
2015 was based on a strong commitment to our values.  
It was this focus that made the year a great one for 
science and patients.
 It was this focus 
that made the year a 
great one for science  
and patients.”
4 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  Transforming Respiratory treatment
Another development in December, was  
our agreement to acquire Takeda’s core 
respiratory business. When completed, this 
agreement will expand our ownership of 
rights to roflumilast (Daliresp/Daxas), the  
only approved oral PDE4 inhibitor for the 
treatment of COPD. The agreement builds 
on our acquisition from Actavis, in March,  
of the rights to market Daliresp in the US. 
This important agreement will also provide 
us with access to other marketed medicines 
that complement our growing portfolio. 
Importantly, it will support our return to 
growth after 2017 and our goal to transform 
the way respiratory disease is treated.
Achieve scientific leadership
In addition to these developments, in the 
week before Christmas, we received our 
sixth approval for the year from the FDA. 
Subsequently, in February 2016, we 
received approval from the EU for Tagrisso 
for lung cancer. 
However, in what was a very busy and 
successful year, my Review can only  
give a flavour of what we achieved. The 
2015 Strategic priorities overview, shown  
on the right, lists some of our other 
achievements, as well as the challenges  
we faced. All these are explored in more 
detail throughout our Strategic Report.
So far as achieving scientific leadership is 
concerned, one measure of the distance  
we have come is in the recognition we have 
received through ‘high-impact’ publications 
in major relevant scientific journals. 
AstraZeneca people had 58 such articles 
published in 2015 compared with seven  
in 2010 – a more than eightfold increase.
Artistic impression of 
osimertinib binding to 
mutant EGFR.
AstraZeneca: Values in action  
Tagrisso (osimertinib) highlights how living our values can 
ensure we achieve our goals. It started with inspiration  
and effort of our scientists to design a compound precisely 
targeting the biological dysfunction associated with a specific 
form of non-small cell lung cancer. And, by putting patients 
first, working collaboratively and following the science, we 
delivered the fastest development journey in our history: less 
than three years from first patient dosed to approval. It was 
then shipped to patients in less than six hours.
Achieve scientific leadership
 > 6 approvals of NMEs or major LCM  
projects in major markets
 – Oncology: Iressa (US); Tagrisso 
(AZD9291/osimertinib) (US);  
Faslodex 500mg (China)
 – CVMD: Bydureon Dual Pen (Japan); 
Brilinta (US for treatment of history  
of heart attack)
 – RIA: Zurampic (US)
 > 2 Phase III NME starts: 
 – anifrolumab for lupus
 – PT010 for COPD
 > 12 NME or major LCM regulatory 
submissions in major markets
 > Accelerated reviews included
 – Brilinta FDA granted Priority Review  
for PEGASUS
 – Tagrisso FDA and PMDA granted 
Priority Review. EMA accelerated 
assessment
 – FDA granted Fast Track status for 
anifrolumab for systemic lupus 
erythematosus; durvalumab for head  
and neck cancer; and tremelimumab  
for mesothelioma
 > 20 projects discontinued
 
Return to growth
 > 1% increase in Total Revenue  
to $24,708 million at CER; comprising  
Product Sales of $23,641 million (down 1%)  
and Externalisation Revenue of 
$1,067 million (up 140%)
 – Based on actual exchange rates, Total 
Revenue declined by 7%, reflecting the 
particular weakness of key trading 
currencies against the US dollar
 > 11% increase in Growth Platforms revenue 
contributing 57% of Total Revenue
 – Respiratory: up 7%, before completion  
of the acquisition of Takeda’s respiratory 
business
 – Brilinta/Brilique: up 44% underpinned by  
a recently-extended US label and positive 
CHMP opinion
 – Diabetes: up 26%, including 76% in 
Emerging Markets; global Farxiga/Forxiga 
growth of 137%
 – Emerging Markets: up 12%, including 
China and Latin America each growing  
by 15%
 – Japan revenue: up 4%
 – New Oncology: contributed $119 million, 
comprising Lynparza, Iressa (US) and 
Tagrisso
 > US revenue was down 6% to $9,474 million; 
Europe down 6% to $5,323 million; and 
Established ROW was stable at 
$3,022 million (at CER)
Great place to work
 > Our quarterly employee survey (pulse) showed belief in our strategy stood at 89%  
(compared with 86% in our 2014 all-employee survey)
 > Exceeded our targets for senior leaders: women (42% versus 41%) and country of origin 
from an Emerging Market or Japan (15.6% versus 13%)
 > Exceeded our target by screening more than one million people in Kenya for hypertension  
as part of our Healthy Heart Africa programme
2015 Strategic priorities overview 
5 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
acquired compounds. This exceeds the 
target set in 2013 of nine to 10 NMEs in 
Phase III/pivotal Phase II studies or under 
regulatory review by 2016.
Collaboration as a way of life
2015 was also a good year for 
collaborations which are an integral part  
of our business model and culture. They 
improve the productivity of our R&D and 
help maximise the value of our pipeline.  
With 10 deals we considerably exceeded 
our target. Some of these, such as our 
agreement with Celgene, are examples of 
strategic collaborations to broaden and 
accelerate the development of key pipeline 
assets. This is explained in more detail in  
the Business model on page 8.
As well as externalising some of our early 
development projects outside our main 
therapy areas, we also divest medicines that 
can be better deployed by a partner with a 
primary focus in that area. Examples in 2015 
included the divestment of Entocort, our 
gastrointestinal medicine. Both routes allow 
us to leverage the capabilities and expertise 
of others, focus our own resources and 
deliver the greatest benefit to patients  
and shareholders. 
Scientific collaborations also help us  
push the boundaries of science. For 
example, during the year we announced 
four collaborations aimed at harnessing  
the power of CRISPR (clustered regularly-
interspaced short palindromic repeats), 
including one with The Wellcome Trust 
Sanger Institute in Cambridge, UK –  
see over.
A pipeline ahead of plan
Our pipeline is also a measure of our 
progress and 2015 was a year of 
considerable success. Of our six approvals 
for the year, the approval, in September,  
of Brilinta in the US for the treatment of 
patients with a history of heart attack 
beyond the first year was particularly 
impressive: it took just nine months to move 
from the presentation of top-line PEGASUS 
TIMI-54 data to launch.
During the year we also made 12 major 
regulatory submissions. After our partner 
Amgen decided to terminate our 
collaboration on brodalumab in May, our 
subsequent collaboration with Valeant,  
with their specific expertise in dermatology, 
enabled submissions to be made in the  
US and EU by the end of the year. In July, 
results of a Phase III study for selumetinib 
did not meet its primary endpoint for uveal 
melanoma. As for saxagliptin/dapagliflozin, 
its submission in the EU and elsewhere 
remains on track despite a Complete 
Response Letter being received from  
the FDA in October.
External recognition of the strength of our 
pipeline was provided by the number of 
accelerated reviews received by our 
candidate drugs during the year, including 
those for cancer, respiratory diseases and 
lupus. Internally, six Phase III investment 
decisions and 1 1 Phase II starts stand 
testament to the quality of the projects  
in development which will help deliver 
sustainable growth.
Even after the approvals we received during 
the year, and the 18 approvals of the last 
two years, we ended 2015 with 15 projects 
in late-stage development, including recently 
Great people are central to our 
success and being a great place  
to work is at the heart of our 
efforts to release the talents  
of our employees. 
Strategic Report 
In this Strategic Report, we outline our 
business model, the marketplace in which 
we operate and the strategic priorities we 
decided upon in response to those 
conditions. We define our measures of 
success (our key performance indicators) 
and the risks we have identified to 
achieving our strategy.
Subsequent sections explore our therapy 
areas as well as our business units and 
the resources we are able to deploy in 
their support.
We also highlight how commitment to our 
values contributes to our success.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  Return to growth
We delivered a strong pipeline and financial 
performance in 2015 as we began the next 
phase in our strategic journey. As the 2015 
Strategic priorities overview shows, Total 
Revenue in 2015 was up 1% at CER.  
The overview also shows the success  
we have had with our Growth Platforms 
where Product Sales grew by 1 1% and 
represented 57% of Total Revenue.
Our top-line and gross-margin growth 
underpinned continued investment in  
R&D. Core R&D costs were up by 21%  
in the year which reflected the investment  
in the pipeline.
Investing in China for the long term
The extent of our ambition was 
demonstrated by our strategic investments, 
announced in December, to accelerate the 
delivery of innovative medicines to patients 
in China, the world’s second largest 
economy and our second largest market, 
and to support the delivery of our strategy.
These initiatives will see AstraZeneca 
become the first multinational 
pharmaceutical company operating in  
China to commit to local development of  
its innovative global portfolio from research 
to commercialisation. Just as importantly, 
these initiatives will allow us to better 
integrate Chinese requirements into our 
global portfolio decisions. 
Great place to work
Great people are central to our success and 
being a great place to work is at the heart  
of our efforts to release the talents of our 
employees. So, for example, during 2015, 
we held over 70 People Development Week 
events to help our staff take ownership  
of their personal development. A talented 
workforce is also diverse and I am pleased 
that we managed to exceed our targets for 
women and country of origin among our 
senior leaders. I take pride in the fact that 
our efforts are being increasingly recognised 
in external awards for the work environment 
we have instilled.
That environment is nurtured by our 
investment in strategic R&D centres, such 
as Cambridge, UK where we now have 
more than 1,600 employees and where the 
construction of our R&D centre and global 
headquarters is progressing rapidly. These 
investments help create an environment  
of innovation and a focus on science and 
patients. They also attract a lot of talent  
from academia and other companies.
A great place to work also has to be one 
where we do the right thing – for the 
patients who take our medicines, as well as 
the planet and society as a whole. If we are 
to deliver business success over the longer 
term, then sustainability has to be in our 
DNA. As the Chairman outlines in more 
detail in his Statement, the steps we are 
taking in this regard reflect a determination 
to do our fair share.
Looking ahead
The investments we made in 2015 were 
designed to ensure we achieved a balance 
between meeting our short-term goal of 
returning to growth and then delivering 
sustainable growth over the longer term as 
we build a sustainable, durable and more 
profitable business.
As we face the transitional period of patent 
expiry for Crestor in the US, we’re confident 
that our strong execution on strategy, 
combined with the benefits of focused 
investments and new launches, keeps us on 
track to return to sustainable growth in line 
with our targets. The weakness of key 
trading currencies against the US dollar has 
continued. Based on average exchange 
rates in January 2016 and our published 
currency sensitivities, an adverse impact  
of around 3% from currency movements on 
Total Revenue and Core EPS in 2016 would 
be anticipated.
Appreciation
I am confident that in AstraZeneca we  
have the people who can overcome our 
short-term challenges and deliver longer-term 
sustainable growth. In that regard I would 
particularly like to welcome Pam Cheng and 
Sean Bohen who joined us during the year.  
In doing so, I would like to thank David Smith 
and Briggs Morrison whom Pam and Sean 
replaced, for the contributions they made to 
our strategic journey.
In closing, I would like to pay tribute to 
everyone in AstraZeneca for making 2015  
a tremendous year. I have every confidence 
in their ability to continue that success in the 
years ahead.
Pascal Soriot 
Chief Executive Officer
Values in action: We follow the science 
Genetic engineering is not new. The Human 
Genome Project produced a complete  
genetic blueprint for building a human in 
2003 but, until now, scientists have been 
unable to manipulate genes simply and 
effectively. A new technology called CRISPR 
is changing that by allowing the genome  
of several different species to be edited 
precisely. We are using CRISPR to identify 
new targets for medicines and develop new 
models to test compounds which align more 
closely with human disease.
CRISPR gene 
editing tool.
7 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report
