 CHARLES SINCLAIR, CHAIRMAN
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Strategic report | Chairman’s statement | 
A STRONG 
PERFORMANCE BY 
ALL BUSINESSES 
DESPITE 
CURRENCY AND 
COMMODITY 
CHALLENGES
This financial year has been 
characterised by continuing 
investment in businesses  
with growth opportunities and  
a relentless drive for improved 
efficiencies and cost reduction.
The two major challenges facing the group 
have been well flagged – food commodity 
deflation and substantial movements in  
currency markets.
A key influence on our food businesses 
has been deflation in many of our major 
commodities, making growth in revenues 
difficult to achieve. The most notable 
examples are the substantial declines  
in both the EU and world sugar prices.  
We have also experienced significant 
movements in exchange rates with  
a strengthening of sterling and the  
US dollar, and a weakening of the euro  
and emerging market currencies. These 
movements had a negative effect on the 
translation of overseas results but also, 
and increasingly as the year progressed, 
on transactional exposures.
Against this background a 2% decline in 
adjusted earnings per share is all the more 
creditable and the group continued to 
generate strong cash flows and reduce 
net debt significantly as a result.
This year has seen growth for a number  
of our businesses. Primark expanded its 
retail selling space by 9% this year  
with a major increase in its presence in 
Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands 
and at the end of the year it opened its  
first store in the US. Brand development  
at our Grocery businesses included a 
major relaunch of Twinings black teas  
in the UK, growth for Mazola, driven  
by strong advertising of its cholesterol 
lowering benefits, and commercial 
success for the Don meat brand in 
Australia. Our enzyme business went 
from strength to strength and was a  
key contributor to the profit increase  
in Agriculture and Ingredients. We 
continue to position our businesses  
to enable them to maximise revenue 
growth opportunities.
The EU sugar price has stabilised in  
the latter part of the year. However, the 
significant fall both in EU and world sugar 
prices has put considerable strain on the 
world sugar industry and has sharpened 
our focus on securing the long term 
profitability of our business. As one of the 
lowest cost producers we have always 
sought to reduce costs and maximise 
production efficiency and significantly,   Strategic report
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
5 Strategic report | Chairman’s statement | 
this year, we have secured lower future 
beet costs for our EU sugar businesses 
and closed two uneconomic factories  
in Heilongjiang, China.
Cost reduction was not confined to our 
Sugar businesses. The substantial profit 
and margin recovery in Ingredients and 
margin improvement in Grocery were  
also driven by wide ranging initiatives  
in these businesses.
We continued to invest for the long  
term with gross capital expenditure  
on property, plant, equipment and 
intangible assets of £613m. Over half  
of this was spent on Primark’s expansion 
where, this year, we added 20 new stores 
and almost one million square feet to the 
estate. We expect next year’s increase  
to be even greater. We also increased  
the scale of Primark’s distribution 
infrastructure to support this growth by 
extending existing warehouse capacity 
and opening new facilities in the Czech 
Republic and the US. The focus of our 
capital expenditure within the food 
businesses was directed at expansion  
of capacity-constrained facilities and  
on improving production efficiency.
Cash flow was again strong this year 
despite a working capital outflow driven  
by higher sugar stocks. Net debt at the 
year end was £252m lower than last  
year at £194m. With the group’s cash 
generating ability, the lower net debt  
and the committed borrowing facilities 
available, we have the capacity to  
meet our growth ambitions.
Corporate responsibility
At the heart of our group is the very simple 
philosophy that helping to feed and  
clothe people is a virtuous and valuable 
endeavour. Our approach to ensuring  
that we provide our customers with  
high-quality, ethically sourced products  
in a responsible manner is described  
in our latest Corporate Responsibility  
Update which is published today and  
is available on the group’s website at  
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.
The board
The Senior Independent Director,  
Tim Clarke, was appointed to the board  
in 2004 and, in accordance with the  
UK Corporate Governance Code, having 
completed nine years’ service in 2013,  
the rest of the board must now confirm  
his independence annually. This having 
been done, we are delighted that Tim  
has agreed to continue as a member  
of the board and as the Senior 
Independent Director.
Javier Ferrán completed nine years on the 
board at the beginning of November 2015 
and has agreed to continue as a director 
but retired from the Audit committee at the 
conclusion of its meeting on 26 October. 
The rest of the board has considered, and 
subsequently confirmed, his continuing 
independence. Lord Jay has also 
completed nine years on the board and 
will retire at the end of November. We 
have benefited greatly from the breadth  
of Michael’s experience and I would like  
to record my thanks to him for his wise 
counsel and highly valued contribution  
to the board over the years.
In January we welcomed Wolfhart Hauser 
to the board as a non-executive director 
and he was appointed to the Audit 
committee in April. Dr Hauser was chief 
executive officer of Intertek Group plc until 
his retirement in May 2015, and during his 
career he led a broad range of successful 
international service industry businesses. 
He is currently a non-executive director of 
RELX Group plc, formerly Reed Elsevier, 
and chairman of FirstGroup plc.
Employees
This year’s success is testament to  
the resilience and resourcefulness of  
our employees who, in many of our 
businesses, and particularly in Sugar,  
have been operating in difficult market 
conditions. I would like to thank them all 
for their valuable contribution, particularly 
to the various continuous improvement 
initiatives that have led to substantial  
cost reduction across the group this  
year. These required a robust challenge  
to historic practices, innovation and 
creativity, and an absolute determination  
to succeed, all of which underpinned 
delivery of this year’s result.
Auditors
KPMG or one of its predecessor firms  
has been our auditor since the Company 
was incorporated in 1935. In light of the 
new requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the external audit  
of the group financial statements was  
put out to tender during the year and the 
board has now appointed Ernst & Young 
LLP as the Company’s new auditor with 
effect from 4 November 2015, subject  
to approval by shareholders at the annual 
general meeting. I would like to take  
this opportunity to thank KPMG for their 
unstinting professionalism, for the insight 
that they have brought and the value  
that they have added to our businesses 
during their 80 year tenure.
Dividends
I am pleased to report that a final dividend 
of 25.0p is proposed, to be paid on  
8 January 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 11 December 2015. Together 
with the interim dividend of 10.0p paid  
on 3 July 2015, this will make a total of 
35.0p for the year, an increase of 3%.
Outlook
The good underlying trading achieved  
by our businesses in 2015 is expected  
to continue.
We intend to maintain investment in 
expansion opportunities, most notably for 
Primark. After three years of large profit 
declines for AB Sugar, we expect greater 
stability in profit next year ahead of EU 
quota removal in 2017. However, the 
substantial moves in exchange rates last 
year, notably the weakening of the euro 
and emerging market currencies, will  
have a significant influence on the results 
for the coming year. At current rates the 
translation impact would be at a similar 
level to last year but the transactional 
impact would be greater and will be seen 
primarily in Primark and British Sugar.
At this early stage we expect the currency 
pressures to lead to a modest decline  
in adjusted operating profit and adjusted 
earnings for the group for the coming year.
Charles Sinclair
Chairman
A RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS
Our Corporate Responsibility Update 
outlines our values and good business 
practice, and our commitment  
to improving productivity  
while managing our footprint
abf.co.uk/responsibility
