 8
Chief Executive’s Statement
“We are well 
placed to achieve 
our aims”
Following a very positive and transformational year in 2011, I am 
pleased to report that 2012 proved to be yet another successful year 
for Atrium.  Strong macro fundamentals in our core markets, asset 
management initiatives across our portfolio and an improved capital 
structure facilitated our ability to, once again, generate value for our 
shareholders.
Our portfolio today, which grew 5% to € 2.2 billion during 2012, is 
optimally concentrated in the most mature, stable and more centrally 
located economies in the region. Our core markets of Poland, the 
Czech Republic and Slovakia all hold A credit ratings and currently 
represent 74% of the total portfolio value. Poland, which is the 
strongest economy of the region, now accounts for 47% of portfolio 
value alone, while Russia, one of our key growth drivers, presently 
comprises 18% of our portfolio in value. The attractiveness of these 
key markets, and particularly the tier one markets and their capital 
cities, is illustrated by the fact that during 2012 yields for prime 
shopping centres hardened in Warsaw and Moscow to around 6% 
and 9%, respectively, notwithstanding that they remained flat in the 
vast majority of our other markets during that year. This once again 
underlines the appeal of these markets to investors, as does the 
proven interest of international retailers to expand within the region, 
and especially in Poland.
During 2012 Atrium maintained its market leading growth and 
excellent operational performance, which includes substantial 
improvements across all of our key performance indicators, 
notwithstanding that the year was marked by uncertain and often 
deteriorating global market conditions. One of the key drivers of this 
performance has been our ability to strengthen our relationships with 
key retail brands by leveraging the size and quality of our portfolio. 
During the year we successfully signed almost 1,000 leases, of which 
more than half were new leases. This activity resulted in our achieving 
a record 98.0% EPRA occupancy rate at year end, with an average 
lease length of 5.6 years, up from 5.0 years at the end of 2011.  
This is a real testament to the strength of our team and the 
operational platform we have created. It also gives credence to 
our strategy of building a portfolio of shopping centers which are 
anchored by retailers focusing on the everyday needs of customers.  
Our 2012 results show, once again, double digit gross and net rental 
income growth across our 156 income producing investments, 
with increases of 12.4% to € 193.5 million and 17.1% to € 181.3 
million from the previous year.  However, the most compelling and 
definitive illustration of the Group’s progress is the market leading 
like-for-like net rental income performance, which increased 7.3% 
to € 148.8 million. In simple terms, this means that Atrium has 
successfully generated an additional € 10.2 million of net rental 
income from the same properties, in spite of adverse economic 
conditions across Europe. Our operating margin improved, for the 
fourth consecutive year, to 93.7% which is a noteworthy improvement 
and one that was ahead of our internal expectations. EBITDA for 
the year, excluding the impact of valuation changes and disposals, 
increased 29.8% to € 146.0 million, whilst company adjusted EPRA 
earnings per share increasing 14% from € 0.28 to € 0.32 per share.
In 2012 there was a distinct lack of supply of quality product available 
for acquisition in the market, with potential vendors generally 
preferring to hold on to the type of income producing assets which 
Atrium typically seeks to acquire, due principally to the low interest 
rate environment and the difficulty in identifying suitable alternative   Annual Financial Report 2012 9
assets in which to reinvest the proceeds. Transaction volumes in the 
region decreased significantly year-on–year, and were largely limited 
to Poland and Russia, while even in these two markets only a limited 
number of transactions were completed. Looking ahead, we anticipate 
that Poland and Russia are likely to continue to account for the lion’s 
share of investment activity in the CEE region. Growth through the 
acquisition of established, income producing shopping centres in our 
core markets remains an important goal for the Group and will also 
allow us to further improve our weighting towards these more stable 
and mature economies referred to above.  
However, we did remain active and were able to complete a number 
of smaller acquisitions of outstanding stakes in assets that we either 
co-owned or had developed with project partners. The first such 
acquisition occurred at the beginning of 2012 when we acquired 
the remaining 23% stake held by our joint venture partner in certain 
group subsidiaries in Russia. Thereafter in June, we acquired from a 
cinema operator its share of the premises owned by it in our Russian 
shopping centres at Volgograd, Togliatti and Yekaterinburg. These two 
transactions totalled € 18.3 million.
In July, we completed the acquisition of the land plot adjacent to 
our Atrium Copernicus shopping centre in Torun, Poland, and are 
currently working on our plans for a 20,000 square meter extension 
of the centre. The first stage of this process has already begun with 
work commencing on an expansion of the car parking space in early 
2013. We will maintain our strategy of acquiring land adjacent to our 
existing assets, where available, as this will allow us to achieve growth 
by extending and improving the centres in our three core markets and 
in Russia.
Over the course of 2012, we also made significant progress in the 
construction and pre-letting of our green-field development in Lublin, 
Poland, and we are now very well placed to deliver a new modern 
75,000 sqm regional shopping centre in early 2014. In June 2012, we 
finalised the forward sale of the 19,700 sqm hypermarket premises 
to Auchan. Additionally, we have made significant progress with 
pre-leasing the remaining 55,000 sqm and, at the date of issue of this 
report, the centre is 84% pre-let following agreements signed with 
Leroy Merlin, H&M, C&A, Media Markt and others.
During the final quarter of the year, we completed the construction 
of our 5,000 sqm stand-alone retail box development at Gdynia and 
handed it over to the tenant, Media Markt, which commenced trading 
in November. We also completed the second floor of our Atrium 
Mosty shopping centre.
Going forward, we intend to remain prudent with our development 
activities, keeping it proportionate to our balance sheet and our 
appetite for risk.
During 2012, we also successfully completed the rebranding of all 
of our Polish shopping centres under the Atrium brand, providing 
both increased awareness of the Group and a highly visible mark of 
quality for customers and retailers alike.  Our medium term goal is to 
complete this exercise for our larger shopping centres and we have 
already begun this process in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Russia. 
Improved capital structure & achievment of investment grade 
credit rating
Having had both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch reiterate Atrium’s BB+ 
corporate credit rating during the first six months of 2012, we were 
exceptionally pleased during the second half of the year to achieve 
our long term goal of regaining an investment grade credit rating. 
This had been a strategic priority for the group executive management 
team since our first involvement with the company and it was 
especially gratifying  to see our hard work result in an upgrade to BBB- 
from Standard & Poor’s in September, followed by Fitch in October.
As I already mentioned in our third quarter 2012 report, these 
upgrades provide Atrium with the potential to have far greater access 
to the unsecured debt markets. However, the reasons cited by the 
agencies for awarding the upgrades were particularly pleasing, since 
both agencies clearly recognised the strategies that we have put in 
place in order to improve operational income, increase exposure to the 
most stable CEE economies and create a solid platform for growth.
Other notable actions taken during the year to improve our capital 
structure were the early repayment of two loans totalling € 10.6 
million, which were due to mature in October 2012.  We then made 
further progress in reducing our more expensive short term debt 
when, in May 2012, we launched a tender offer for our € 100 million 
Notes due to mature in 2013 and which bear a partly variable interest 
cost of more than 5.5% on average. The tender offer resulted in 
Atrium holding all but € 40 million of the outstanding bond. Finally, 
in November, we prepaid two additional loans totalling € 5.8 million, 
which were due to mature in 2015 and 2016. These actions were 
mildly accretive to earnings over the year. 
Atrium retains an enviable cash balance, of over € 200 million as at 
31 December 2012, and continues to have very low leverage with 
a net loan-to-value ratio of 12.1%.  Over time we do intend to 
improve our balance sheet efficiency and increase our leverage to 
between 30% and 35%. In the interim, our conservative balance 
sheet positioning affords significant competitive advantages in our 
ability to finance the Group’s growth through further acquisitions and 
development plans.
Dividend
Four quarterly dividend payments of € 0.0425 per share were paid, 
bringing the total for the year to € 0.17 per share.  Our strong trading 
fundamentals have also enabled the Board to increase the annual 
dividend in 2013 by 17.6% to at least € 0.20 per share, subject to 
any legal and regulatory requirements and restrictions of commercial 
viability.  The dividend payment is comfortably covered by earnings, 
yet still provides the Group with the necessary resources to grow.
This is the third consecutive year that the dividend has been increased 
since first being introduced in 2009.  The first payment of € 0.05 will 
be paid as a capital repayment on 28 March 2013, to the registered 
Chief Executive’s Statement 10
shareholders on the register at 22 March with an ex-date of 20 March 
2013.
Awards & community
Over the course of the year we were pleased to receive a number 
of awards both for our work as an investor in the CEE region and 
in recognition of the high quality and excellent management of our 
shopping centres. These awards underscore the considerable progress 
Atrium has made over the last three years in the region and provide 
further evidence that our efforts to position Atrium as a market 
leading retail real estate brand are gaining real traction.
Atrium was honoured to receive the “Investor of the Year” award 
at the 2011 Europa Property CEE Retail Awards for the second year 
running, as well as the Central and Eastern European Real Estate 
Quality Award (in cooperation with the Financial Times).  Most 
recently we were delighted to be named “Company of the Year” at 
the 2012 Europa Property CEE Retail Awards.
During 2012, we were proud to be a key supporter of a nationwide 
breast cancer awareness campaign in Poland, in conjunction with 
Estée Lauder which included displaying the highly symbolic Pink 
Ribbon sign across our Polish shopping centres, hosting fundraising 
events and temporarily accommodating mobile breast screening units 
at 10 of our Polish centres.
Outlook & objectives for 2013
Taking into account our strong presence in the most mature and 
stable CEE economies and encouraged by the IMF projections for the 
region, together with very positive forecasts for Russia, we remain 
confident in our ability to continue to deliver a strong performance 
going forward. We are very encouraged by the Group’s results for the 
year under review, as evidenced by the Board’s decision to increase the 
dividend once more. With that in mind we remain acutely aware of 
the current market conditions and the low growth environment that 
we must all adjust to.
Our targets for the coming year will be to continue to drive the 
financial and operational performance of our assets while striving 
to constantly improve our offering for retailers and consumers. We 
will maintain our pursuit of appropriate investment opportunities in 
our core markets of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia whilst 
further improving the capital structure and efficiency of the Group’s 
balance sheet. Finally, we will continue to establish the Atrium brand 
and strengthen our relationships with key clients while seeking to 
work with new retailers as they expand into and across the region.
In conclusion, I firmly believe that our strategy of focusing on food 
and ‘necessity goods’ anchored retail centres in the region’s strongest 
economies, coupled with our own ability to intensively manage our 
assets in order to extrapolate the maximum value whilst improving the 
offering for our tenants and the experience for consumers, will allow 
us to continue to deliver sound results.  We are well placed to achieve 
our aims and I therefore look forward to the future with a cautious 
degree of confidence and optimism.
I would also like to reiterate the Chairman’s thanks to all our staff for 
the valuable contribution they have made over the past year.
Sincerely,
 Rachel Lavine
Chief Executive’s Statement
