 ATTRAQT Group PLC 
 
14 
 
CEO’s Statement  
 
Introduction 
 
We are very pleased with the strong operational and financial progress achieved by ATTRAQT during 2015. We 
have grown our customer base significantly, adding important marquee names to our client register and further 
building the volume of recurring revenue, which has also driven an improvement in gross margin. Our productive 
capacity has also improved and we now have 154 live sites, with a strong pipeline in place for 2016. Success in 
sales and production has contributed to the growth in revenue, which we expect to see continue in 2016. 
 
We have continued to invest in and upgrade the Platform during the year and have an exciting development 
programme for 2016. In addition, we have continued to develop a number of important technology partnerships 
including with YUDU Media, signing the first joint client in the period, to extend the functionality of the Platform and 
to expand the use of our technology into new market segments. 
 
Business model 
 
The Group’s business model is based on a recurring monthly service fee plus a one-off set-up fee and additional 
follow-on project fees. Clients sign up for a minimum of 12 months, with some larger clients signing up for a longer 
period of 2-3 years. 
 
The current sales model is based on direct sales via a dedicated sales team. Due to the importance of the 
functionality provided by the Platform to our clients, client loyalty is strong with churn rates below 10% of revenue 
per annum, with most clients automatically renewing at the end of the contractual term.  
 
Growth strategy 
 
The Group’s objective is to become the visual merchandising platform of choice for online retailers in Europe and 
North America and in a more global capacity in the long term. 
 
Our recent fundraising, as announced on 12 and 30 November 2015, has enabled us to continue to build on our 
business plan, which is founded on five key elements: 
 
1) Invest in sales and marketing to grow client base and volume of recurring revenue; 
2) Expand the company’s productive capacity to keep pace with accelerating sales; 
3) Develop strategic partnerships – both sales and technology – to accelerate sales growth and extend our product 
offering; 
4) Extend the capabilities of the platform through continued investment in research and development, adding new 
features and creating new products to initiate new revenue streams; and  
5) Identify new markets and innovative ways to repurpose our technology. 
 
Review of Sales & Operations 
 
The Group has grown the client-base in the year, adding 31 new clients in the UK and North America (2014: 36), 
worth £0.95m in recurring revenue on an annualised basis. These include marquee names such as Ben Sherman 
in Canada; Bonmarché, Brown Thomas, ESPA, Present Finder, Pretty Little Thing, World Duty Free and Buck and 
Hickman in the UK and Bizou, Echo Design, and TUMI in the US. Further additions include La Perla and Screwfix 
in Europe, bringing the Group’s total number of clients to 110 by the end of December 2015 (2014: 87). 
  ATTRAQT Group PLC 
 
15 
 
The average value of new client contracts signed in 2015 has increased by 24% to £31k per annum reflecting the 
return on investment we can demonstrate for our products, the growing maturity of the sales team and the sales 
process as well as the increasing size of our typical customer. 
 
The ongoing investment in our productive capacity has enabled us to deliver 63 new client sites during the year, 
nearly double the previous year’s total (2014: 35), bringing the total number of live sites to 154 by year end. The 
Group also started 11 new site builds before the end of 2015, which are scheduled for delivery during 2016.  
 
In 2015, we delivered a significant number of client renewal upgrades with 18 clients increasing their monthly fee 
increments and/or site upgrades (2014: 3). These upgrades, from clients such as Laura Ashley, TK Maxx and White 
Stuff, are worth an annualised £0.44m. We have also continued to undertake project work for our clients such as 
Responsive Web Design (‘RWD’) projects and search auto-complete projects. 
 
Interesting client implementations during the year included the following: 
 
 Brown Thomas and John Greed both added marketing content, in addition to the usual product displays, 
to their category page merchandising. This allowed them to promote particular products or promotions on 
the page. The products appear to mould themselves around the content, making the pages look far more 
sophisticated.  
 
 The Tate – Print Finder: Prints are one of the best sellers for The Tate. The company built a print finder 
function on their site which uses ATTRAQT filters to return the correct products to fit the users selected 
criteria The solution enabled them to implement a ‘wizard’, allowing their customer to choose specific filters 
to get them to the prints they liked quickly, therefore improving customer experience and conversion rates. 
 
 Wilko, The Tate, Bonmarché and Ben Sherman have added product recommendations to their 
homepages to reduce the number of clicks it takes customers to view products. This strategy utilises the 
real estate on the home page, which can often be overlooked by many customers, giving the retailer an 
opportunity to showcase the brand and products that get the highest conversion or to promote new 
products/sale products. 
 
North American Expansion progressing 
 
ATTRAQT has continued to focus on its North American expansion plans following the relocation of the North 
American HQ to Chicago in November 2014. During 2015, the Company successfully added 8 new clients in North 
America; Ben Sherman, Bikini Village, Bizou, Echo Design, La Vie en Rose, Souris Mini, TUMI, and Vix Swimwear 
bringing the total number of clients in this region to 17. 
 
With the aid of proceeds from the fundraise ATTRAQT intends to bolster the North American team in 2016, adding 
additional sales people, account managers, project managers and client services people. ATTRAQT has recently 
hired a senior account manager which will enable the transfer of account management from the UK team to North 
America, freeing up additional capacity in the UK.  
 
Platform enhancements and Product development 
 
During 2015, ATTRAQT deployed five upgrades to the Platform, focused on performance improvements, 
enhancements to personalisation technology, improvements to manual merchandising and additional reporting 
functionalities; further increasing its competitive strength.  
 
These new core platform releases included the new Hypercaching performance technology developed by the 
company which speeds up both search and category pages by getting the product information from a cache layer 
rather than having to retrieve it directly from the database or search index. Other code releases included “Smart 
collections” which allow clients to automatically add and remove products from manually created collections. In 
addition to this, ATTRAQT has made the first batch of changes to upgrade the platform infrastructure to improve 
platform resiliency and disaster recovery.   ATTRAQT Group PLC 
 
16 
 
 
Functionality within the ATTRAQT Control Panel was also added to make merchandising simpler for clients with 
very large product sets and/or lots of international sites. ATTRAQT also released a new feature that will allow data 
from any third party provider to be used as input into ATTRAQT merchandising strategies without the need to 
integrate clients of 3rd parties.  
 
ATTRAQT also continues to invest in and develop ATTRAQTMail™, which allows retailers to merchandise to 
customers through their current email marketing systems. 
  
Strategic Partnerships 
 
In August 2015, ATTRAQT announced its first technology partnership with mobile digital catalogue app developer 
YUDU Media to develop ‘Live Catalog’, a joint service offering using ATTRAQT’s visual merchandising platform 
and YUDU’s digital catalogue technology. ‘Live Catalog’ enables retailers to add real-time visual merchandising 
techniques, such as personalised promotions and special offers, and other rapidly-changing content to their digital 
catalogues. In November 2015, the Company announced it had signed Screwfix Germany as the first joint client of 
‘Live Catalog’.  
 
The Board believes partnerships present a valuable opportunity for ATTRAQT to engage with its clients on 
additional features, with the potential to create new revenue streams.  
 
Supportive Market Developments 
 
Online retail continues to be a very competitive and dynamic industry where retailers are continuously challenged 
to respond to a clear, and growing, interaction between online and offline retailing. The Board believes the Platform 
is well positioned to help retailers respond to this challenge, ensuring consistency of merchandising across 
channels and countries.  
 
The growth of ecommerce and investment in mobile continued during the year as retailers worked to enhance their 
capabilities in RWD, web app and mobile apps to capitalise on the trend for increasing use of mobile and tablet 
devices. According to reports by IMRG, visits to ecommerce sites via smartphone and tablet devices accounted for 
45% of all ecommerce traffic in the UK (IMRG, Feb 2015). UK Consumers are estimated to spend £53.6bn a year 
by 2024 using their smartphones and tablets, highlighting the importance for retailers to invest in their mobile 
strategy. ATTRAQT is well positioned to benefit from this trend as the Platform is device and platform agnostic, 
enabling it to support retailers regardless of their channels to market.  
 
Retailers continue to move away from the automated ‘black-box’ method of providing product recommendations 
towards a more nuanced approach that allows the retailer interaction with the recommendations being made, in 
particular to extend their visual merchandising strategies into those recommendations. This is a trend that plays to 
the core strength of the Platform and has continued throughout 2015. Internationalisation also remained a focus in 
2015, with clients including Superdry and TUMI rolling out 21 and 18 international sites respectively. 
We will continue to monitor market trends and enhance the Platform to ensure it meets customers’ needs. 
Financial Review 
Total revenue increased by 40% to £2.91m (2014: £2.09m), exceeding Group expectations of £2.8m, as new 
customers were added and more existing customers commissioned additional sites. The recurring monthly revenue 
rose 38% from £1.92m to £2.65m, now representing 91% of total Group revenue, up 1% from 90% in 2014. The 
Exit Rate (year-end annualised billing) for 2015 was up 29% to £3.1m.  
 
The Group recorded losses before tax and at the EBITDA level, both of which were in line with management 
expectations. Losses before tax were reduced to £0.73m (2014: £1.53m) and adjusted EBITDA losses for the year 
were significantly reduced by 73% to £0.2m (2014: £0.74m); on a monthly basis reaching a position of EBITDA 
breakeven in late FY 2015. In FY 2016, the investment of the proceeds of the fundraising in expanding sales, 
marketing and production (detailed further in the section below) are expected to lead to EBITDA losses increasing 
in the short-term, reflecting investment in the Group’s operational expansion; however the rate of growth is 
expected to accelerate as a result, with a return to EBITDA profitability in the mid-term. 
 
  ATTRAQT Group PLC 
 
17 
 
 
ATTRAQT continues to invest in technical enhancements to the existing product offerings and in new products. 
Some of this cost is capitalised and some is absorbed as part of the operating costs of the business.  
 
Funding 
Since its admission to AIM, ATTRAQT has continued to deliver strong operational and financial progress, signing 
important new clients across regions and continuing to invest in organic growth by developing performance 
improvements and new features. In order to continue to deliver on the exciting potential of the Group and its target 
markets, ATTRAQT successfully raised approximately £3.3 million (before expenses) by way of a placing. This will 
enable the Group to develop its sales teams in the UK and in North America, with additional investment required 
to expand the required production capacity to support its potential growth prospects and increase the functionality 
of the core platform.  
 
As part of the fundraising, ATTRAQT also welcomed Nick Habgood, Managing Partner of Azini Capital Partners 
LLP, to its Board as Non-executive Director as of 30 November 2015.  
 
Outlook 
 
We are very pleased with the strong progress we have made in 2015. We are continuing to gain traction with 
leading retailers both in the UK, Europe and North America, and with a strong financial platform, we look forward 
to 2016 with confidence.   
 
 There is real momentum in the sales process and production pipeline and with our year-end annualised 
billings up 29% we see this continuing into 2016. 
 
 The Platform continues to perform well, with further enhancements delivered in 2015 and an exciting 
development roadmap for 2016, including improvements to the Platform to streamline production, a full 
reporting and recommendations upgrade and further improvements to personalisation. 
 
 We have further invested in our productive capacity, driving efficiencies and working closely with our clients 
to drive improvements, increasing client reliance and usage of the Platform. 
 
 We have maintained our high margin and low revenue churn. 
 
 The successful fundraising has provided us with the financial means to accelerate our growth in the UK, 
Europe and North America, by investing further in sales, account management, production and core platform 
development.  
 
With a strong pipeline of new business opportunities, our much increased exit rates and an increasingly 
sophisticated merchandising platform, we are confident in the ongoing success of ATTRAQT and in the outlook for 
2016 and beyond. 
 
André Brown 
Chief Executive Officer  
8 March 2016 
 
 
 
