 ATTRAQT Group PLC 
 
5 
 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
 
We are delighted with the continued progress we have made in our first full year as an AIM listed company, 
delivering further sales momentum and signing 49 new deals in the period, growing our client base to 110 clients 
with 154 live sites. We have also succeeded in growing recurring monthly revenue by 38% and increasing the 
average deal value by 31%. This has enabled us to deliver a solid set of results for the year, with top line growth 
of 40% to £2.91m. More importantly, with our year-end annualised billings (exit rate) up 29% at £3.05m; our visibility 
over future revenues is also ahead of the same period last year. 
 
ATTRAQT is also pleased with the further progress made in the careful and deliberate rollout of its North American 
operations, adding eight new clients in the period, including marquee brand TUMI, bringing the total number of 
clients in this region to 17.  
 
The trends we continue to see across the Platform are very exciting. ATTRAQT continues to demonstrate its ability 
to deliver value for retailers, with a number of key renewal upgrades achieved in the period, where clients increased 
fee levels and added further sites to the Platform.   
 
The recent successes of Black Friday and Cyber Monday provide further evidence of the Platform’s ability to 
improve online conversion rates, average order values and customer retention. During this peak period, the 
average conversion rate for our clients rose to 5.4%, a 9% increase over last year. The Platform served 4.6m 
unique users in a single day on Black Friday, an increase of 64% on last year.  Furthermore, Cyber Monday saw 
increased levels of activity across the platform, serving 4.1m unique users in a single day and average order values 
of £62.78, 22% higher than that of Black Friday. 
 
On 30 November 2015, we completed a successful fundraising of £3.3 million (before expenses) by way of a placing 
of new shares. We were delighted by the response from investors, seeing strong support from both our existing 
shareholders and new investors. The additional funds will enable us to accelerate our growth in UK, Europe and 
North America and also allows us to further improve our productive capacity and further invest in our unique 
Freestyle Merchandising technology platform. 
 
2016 looks to be a very exciting year for ATTRAQT and the Board looks to the future with confidence.  
 
 
Dan Wagner 
Chairman 
8 March 2016 
  
