 6
Chairman’s Statement
“Another 
year of strong 
performance”
2012 was another year of strong performance for Atrium, building on 
the momentum from 2011 to record robust growth across all of our 
key performance indicators, as well as delivering against the corporate 
objectives we identified in last year’s Annual Report.
During the year, Atrium’s management teams continued to work 
hard to maximise the income and value potential of the 156 assets 
in our income producing portfolio. There is no better illustration 
of their success than the fact that we are able to report market 
leading increases in like-for-like net rental income, which increased 
an impressive 7.3% over 2011, together with growth in operating 
margin, net cash from operating activities, portfolio valuation and 
dividend for the third year in succession. 
The consistency of our results reinforces our confidence in Atrium’s 
strategy of targeting retail centres which people visit daily for essential 
purchases and in the value of hands-on internal asset management. 
We are able to leverage our local teams’ knowledge of the market 
dynamics in their respective countries and the strength of our 
relationships with the major international and local occupiers across 
our portfolio. In many cases, these relationships have allowed us to 
grow rental income from major retail brands by working with them 
across multiple assets within our existing portfolio, as well as at our 
developments and newly acquired shopping centres.
The prevailing economic conditions have resulted in a distinct lack 
of supply of quality stock, with the result that opportunities to make 
further acquisitions of established shopping malls in our target 
markets have been scarce and thus our transaction volumes were 
lower than we would had initially hoped. However, a pick-up in 
general market activity towards the end of the year indicates the 
possibility of an increase in market liquidity and transaction volumes in 
the year ahead. During the year we were able to successfully conclude 
a number of smaller transactions by buying the outstanding stakes of 
several projects which we part owned, and we continue to actively 
seek out opportunities to grow our portfolio through acquisition 
where we identify high quality, well positioned and sensibly priced 
assets in our core markets. 
In 2012 we have also commenced our first major new development 
project, the Atrium Felicity shopping centre in Lublin, Poland, which is 
scheduled to deliver 75,000 sqm of modern retail space in early 2014. 
The project is now substantially pre-let at 84%, following strong 
leasing activity throughout the year. 
A particularly pleasing success during the year was the achievement 
of our long term goal of receiving an upgrade to an investment grade 
credit rating by both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. This is strategically 
important as it opens up potential new options for the future 
financing of growth initiatives and the further optimisation of our 
balance sheet structure. Additionally, it represents a very positive third 
party endorsement of the Company, our strategy and the consistently 
strong results delivered by the management team.
In light of the Group’s performance and as a result of the Board’s 
confidence in its ability to continue to deliver strong levels of recurring 
income, we increased our annual dividend payment from € 0.17 to 
at least € 0.20 per ordinary share, payable quarterly and commencing 
at the end of March 2013 (subject to any legal and regulatory 
requirements and restrictions of commercial viability). This increase is   Annual Financial Report 2012 7
in line with the Board’s long standing policy of sharing the Group’s 
success with our shareholders whilst maintaining a prudent ratio of 
dividend to recurring income.
In summary, in spite of the ongoing challenges facing the broader 
property and retail sectors in Europe, 2012 was another very 
successful year for Atrium. Whilst the broad macroeconomic 
environment will remain challenging, we are confident that our 
geographical focus on the stronger Central and Eastern European 
economies, our strategic approach to our portfolio and our detailed 
hands-on asset management will continue to set Atrium apart and 
yield strong results and value creation for all our shareholders.
I would like to thank all our management and employees, right across 
our business, for their hard work and dedication throughout the year; 
these excellent results would not be possible without them.
Finally, I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for your 
confidence in us. We do not take our responsibility to you lightly and 
will keep doing our utmost to justify your trust in the years to come.
Sincerely,
Chaim Katzman
Chairman’s Statement
