 STRATEGIC REPORT  
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Construction of our HYLAS 4 satellite began at the beginning of 
the financial year and the launch remains on-track for early 2017, 
with HYLAS 3 scheduled to launch in the same year. HYLAS 4 will 
complete our planned coverage of EMEA. 
Our technology platform performed to a high standard. The many 
proprietary and patented innovations that we have deliver 
a sustainable competitive advantage. 
We have now invested over $1.2bn in developing a business that 
can meet the huge latent demand for affordable connectivity in high 
growth markets. Together with the investments that we will make 
over the next two years, this will create a company with the potential 
to generate over $500m of EBITDA per annum once the fleet is filled. 
During the year Alan Foster and William Wyatt stepped down from 
the Board. I would like to thank them for the tremendous contributions 
that they have made to Avanti. 
I was pleased to welcome Andy Green and Charmaine Eggberry 
as Non-Executive Directors. I am sure that Avanti will greatly benefit 
from their experience as the business grows. 
Finally, I would like to thank our employees, customers, suppliers 
and investors for their ongoing support. 
Paul Walsh
Chairman
Avanti made good progress in 
2015. Our satellites provided high 
performance, affordable connectivity 
to governments, businesses and 
individuals across EMEA. This changed 
peoples’ lives every day, supporting 
economic growth, business, education, 
healthcare and security.
We enhanced our long-term growth platform, both in terms of customer 
growth and infrastructure development.
Avanti reaches end users through national and international Service 
Providers. During 2015 we grew our distribution platform, signing 
over 90 new contracts with both new and existing customers.
Amongst these were a number of wins with key target customers 
that have national distribution in our core markets. These included 
SENTECH in South Africa, Tanzania Telecoms Company and 
Orange Telkom Kenya.
Paul Walsh
Chairman
Avanti Communications Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
5
