 STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
While there is still work to be done to achieve Avanti’s full potential, 
in many ways 2015 was a landmark year for us. 
Avanti is no longer regarded as a new entrant. We are delivering 
excellent service for our customers using superior technology, 
today. Our technology platform is proven across our markets 
and our brand is understood and well regarded. 
We have now moved from an establishment to an execution phase. 
We are seeing strong ongoing growth from existing customers 
in our established territories as the distribution base matures and 
we expect to see growth increase when we launch service in 
West Africa. 
It took time to establish our brand, product and price proposition in 
many new markets and early customers were often specialists with 
high expertise and conviction, but limited marketing reach. 
We are increasingly distributing our product through major telecoms 
companies with universal market access within their geographies. 
We have been selected to undertake national broadband roll out 
projects by government owned national telecoms operators in all of 
the core HYLAS 2 African markets of Kenya, Tanzania, Zimbabwe 
and South Africa. Similar progress in other geographies is imminent. 
The maturing distribution platform is now therefore materially 
increasing our growth rates. During 2015, our Top-20 Customer 
Bandwidth Revenue Growth increased 53.7%. 
When we founded Avanti, we chose 
to design the highest quality and 
flexibility into our products, developing 
many patented innovations. This 
differentiates them from legacy 
satellite operators and mirrors the 
quality of service that terrestrial 
communications offer.
David Williams
Chief Executive
Avanti Communications Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6 Yield continues to average around $2,000 per MHz per month. 
The efficiency of our satellites delivers major advantages in pricing, 
which is presented to customers denominated in $ per Mb per month. 
We can generate three times as many MHz per ton of satellite than 
is the case with even the most advanced Ku-band High Throughput 
Satellites (“HTS”). Furthermore we can extract double the Mb per 
MHz due to high spectral efficiency and our dishes are half the 
price of Ku-band dishes.
Our $ per Mb per month prices are far lower than Ku-band 
competitors and we have a more compelling, higher quality, flexible 
and scalable offer. 
Avanti also has significantly greater capacity per country than 
legacy operators. This is important for large telecoms customers 
that want scalable deployments. 
We are also building the fleet. We added a further 3 GHz of incremental 
capacity at the end of 2015, as part of a commercial agreement with 
another satellite operator. This capacity is in the form of a steerable 
beam cluster which we are marketing as HYLAS 2-B. 
HYLAS 2-B gives us coverage of a new geography unserved by the 
fleet and also fortuitously gives us an opportunity to bridge the gap 
in steerable capacity that we have due to the previously announced 
slippage of the European Space Agency’s timetable to launch 
the satellite platform that will host HYLAS 3. Initial revenues are 
expected to arise in the second half of the current financial year. 
During the year the construction of our key HYLAS 4 satellite began. 
It is on-track and, following our capital raise post the year end, 
fully financed. 
To plan for the future, we have been making significant investments 
in our sales and marketing in preparation for the new markets 
that HYLAS 4 will cover. We have also been developing our 
ground network. 
Avanti is a hugely scalable business now the core operations have 
been established. It is a pioneer, delivering revolutionary technology 
which is changing lives today, while preparing to serve new markets 
and new customers in 2016 and beyond. 
David Williams
Chief Executive
Avanti Communications Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7
