 1 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our vision
AVEVA’s vision is to power 
Digital Assets that help  
shape our world
Our mission
AVEVA’s mission is to  
unlock the potential of  
every customer with a  
Digital Asset that transforms 
their creation and operation  
of complex assets
UNLOCK THE POWER OF  
YOUR DIGITAL ASSET
The Digital Asset is the information core of every project and facility. 
It unifies trusted information that runs through every system, populates every 
application, and is embedded in every document and model. It removes barriers 
to information flow and provides access to that information, both for capital 
project execution and asset lifecycle management.
Digital Asset  
Online
Digital Asset  
Video
Learn more about the Digital Asset 
at www.aveva.com/digitalasset
To watch AVEVA’s Digital Asset video, 
visit www.aveva.com/video 2 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic
Operational
Financial
AVEVA Everything3D™
Adoption of AVEVA E3D by existing and 
new customers continues to accelerate. 
In the past year AVEVA has announced 
the adoption of AVEVA E3D by leading 
global companies including: AMEC Foster 
Wheeler, Atkins, D3 Engineering,  
JSC NIIK, KBR, Tekfen Engineering,  
and Tianchen, among others.  
www.aveva.com/news
Global Accounts
We have made significant progress 
in deepening our relationship with our 
Global Accounts, by offering a complete 
solution across all disciplines and 
through continued innovation.
Partners
The development of solutions together 
with key partners remains critical to our 
market strategy. EMC, Capgemini and 
Meridium are just three such partners 
that are helping us to achieve our Digital 
Asset vision. www.aveva.com/partners
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are a key part of AVEVA’s 
growth strategy and this year we added 
8over8 to our organisation. 8over8’s 
flagship product is ProCon™, a risk 
management software platform that 
connects Owner Operators (OOs),  
and Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction (EPC’s) throughout the 
project life cycle. www.8over8.com
Innovation
We have an enviable reputation for 
providing creative software solutions. 
This year our greatly enhanced versions of 
AVEVA NET and AVEVA Engineering took 
centre stage, along with AVEVA E3D™ in 
the Cloud and new visualisation tools.
‘One AVEVA’
‘One AVEVA’ translates into greater 
coordination of our global sales team 
with a focus on delivering a Digital Asset 
approach across our customers’ entire 
project and asset lifecycle.
Solutions & Technology
Our Solutions & Technology R&D 
operation provides a unified approach to 
promoting the tighter integration of our 
software solutions, as well as providing 
natural efficiencies and flexibility as our 
organisation continues to grow.
Digital Asset Projects
Our Digital Asset Projects team  
focuses on maximising the value we  
can provide to our customers through  
a world-class professional services  
and consulting offering.
Revenue
£208.7m
On an organic constant currency basis  
£220.4 million (2014 – £237.3 million)
Recurring revenue
£158.2m
On an organic constant currency basis  
£166.6 million (2014 – £167.0 million)
Profit before tax
£54.9m
Adjusted to exclude certain non-cash  
and exceptional items £62.1 million  
(2014 – £78.3 million)
Net assets
£189.9m
Strong balance sheet (2014 – £185.0 million)
Audited* profit margin
29.8%
2014 – 33.0% 
Final dividend
25 pence
up 14% from 2013/14 (22 pence)
This has been a year of good strategic progress, delivering increased 
value to our customers through technology innovation and greater 
business efficiency in more challenging markets.
Highlights
Strategic report
* Adjusted profit before tax, adjusted profit margin and adjusted basic earnings per share are calculated before amortisation of intangible assets (excluding other 
software, share-based payments, gain/loss on fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and exceptional items. In addition, adjusted basic earnings per 
share also include the tax effects of these adjustments.
