 15 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Building on our strengths
Helping our customers to create a Digital 
Asset that improves project predictability 
and operational reliability is core to our 
vision and mission, and central to our 
key business objectives: to build on our 
technology strengths and effectively align 
priorities that drive decisions and guide 
our planning. As we grow our business, 
our strategic goals are to expand our 
geographic presence in strong markets, 
target new customer profiles, expand the 
role we play with existing customers, and 
diversify our end market exposure. These 
ambitious objectives touch on virtually 
every aspect of our business and are a 
priority for all our employees around the 
world. To ensure the greatest possible 
success, these objectives are clearly 
understood throughout our organisation 
and they underpin all of our business 
planning processes.
EXTEND DIGIT AL 
ASSET FOOTPRINT
DIVERSIFICATION 
OF END MARKETS
Opportunity
The launch of AVEVA E3D has helped 
AVEVA grow to a market-leading 
position in 3D design solutions. 
This position, combined with our 
investment in our world-class 
information management, schematics 
and structural solutions, means  
that AVEVA has an unrivalled  
product portfolio for the creation  
and management of the digital asset. 
Looking ahead we seek to strengthen 
our position here by:
 • Extending our 3D dominance with 
AVEVA E3D
 • Build upon our ‘lean’ positioning to 
expand our design install base with 
Integrated Engineering & Design
 • Reach new users with our 
collaborative design vision combining 
our core engineering and information 
management technologies, known 
as Design in Context
 • Continually appraise acquisition 
opportunities to build out our install 
base within AVEVA core verticals
Opportunity
We have an opportunity to continue to 
grow our presence in complimentary 
adjacent verticals such as Steel 
Fabrication and AEC infrastructure 
markets, who share a similar need to 
the energy markets for solutions that 
address the challenges of executing 
complex capital intensive projects.
 • Extend our successful Digital Asset 
solutions into the wider AEC market
 • Continue to grow our footprint in 
adjacent capital intensive industries 
using our Contract Risk Management 
and our Digital Asset solutions
 • Develop our visual thinking position 
for asset visualisation and project 
collaboration into the BIM (Building 
Information Management) market
 • Target steel fabrication market 
with steel detailing and fabrication 
management
 • Building on our strength to manage 
laser data and automate the 
production of intelligent 3D into all 
capital intensive industries
 • Continue to appraise acquisition 
opportunities to increase our 
exposure to wider capital  
intensive industries
 • Strengthen our partner ecosystem  
to reach new markets Total revenue
Recurring
76%
Initial license fees
15%
Services
9%
 
16 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s  
strategic review
Strategic report
“ We h a v e 
demonstrated  
our ability to  
capitalise on  
our strengths.”
 Richard Longdon
 Chief Executive
 19 May 2015
Summary of 
Performance
Resilience in difficult markets
The financial year 2014/15 proved the 
resilience of AVEVA’s business model, 
given the mixed trading environment we 
experienced. Our revenue mix, broad 
international reach and strong competitive 
positioning proved to be key strengths. 
Our emphasis was on execution in the 
second half of the year and I am pleased 
to say that we were able to deliver the 
£10.0 million of cost efficiencies we had 
targeted. Full year constant currency 
revenue of £220.4 million (2014 – 
£237.3 million) reflected a second half 
performance in line with the previous 
year, with an increase in annual fees and 
rental licences broadly flat despite the 
difficult market backdrop. Rental deals that 
had shifted into the second half closed 
successfully in line with expectations. 
We were also able to demonstrate that 
the significant investment we have made 
in Research & Development in recent 
years has been well-timed, enabling us 
to expand our penetration within Global 
Accounts despite the difficult economic 
backdrop facing many of our customers.
Overall, I am pleased with the strategic 
and operational progress we have made 
during the period. We have continued to 
expand our sales to OOs through a more 
coordinated approach, founded upon the 
‘One AVEVA’ sales strategy, implemented 
at the start of the year. 
This has had the effect of increasing 
solution sales to customers and positions 
us well for the future. We also continued 
our strategy of reinvesting cash in 
strategically important acquisitions, with 
the addition of 8over8 Limited in January 
2015, an industry-leading provider of 
contract risk management solutions.
Over the course of the year, we have seen 
substantially more challenging conditions 
in our Oil & Gas end market, which 
represents around 45% of Group revenue, 
with the material weakening in the oil price 
leading to sharp reductions in exploration 
and production capital expenditure. In 
addition to this, our business in Latin 
America was further impacted by Brazil’s 
ongoing political difficulties. In the Marine 
market, global shipbuilding activity 
remained subdued, driven by ongoing 
over-capacity, reduction in new orders for 
specialist off-shore vessels and relatively 
low global GDP growth. In the Power 
market, we continued to see steady single 
digit growth.
We have an international business with 
over 50 offices operating in more than 
30 countries worldwide. Sterling has 
strengthened materially during the course 
of our financial year, in particular against 
the Euro but also against many other 
currencies in which we do business, and 
we saw a 6% negative translation impact 
on our reported revenue. This is covered in 
more detail in the Finance Review. 17 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our vision of the Digital Asset is enabling our 
customers to manage continued change as 
they deliver and operate some of the world’s 
most complex assets.
Why customers in our end markets buy 
our software
Our software is used by our customers 
as they design, build and operate large 
capital-intensive assets, in the Process, 
Power and Marine industries. We sell our 
solutions principally to the EPC companies, 
shipyards and OO customers worldwide. 
Our vision of the Digital Asset is enabling 
our customers to manage continual 
change as they deliver and operate some 
of the world’s most complex assets.
Increasingly, our customers are 
demanding a combination of our products 
and this, backed by our ‘One AVEVA’ sales 
strategy, is driving wider adoption of the 
entire AVEVA product portfolio delivering 
strong upsell opportunities. This has been 
particularly evident in the success we 
have achieved in expanding our footprint 
within our Global Accounts. Other notable 
customers opting for a broader portfolio of 
our products include Southern California 
Gas Company, a good example of an OO 
combining a range of AVEVA applications 
in order to improve capital efficiency, 
reliability and compliance.
Engineering & Design Systems (EDS) 
review and drivers
As a result of the difficult end markets our 
EDS business was subdued. Revenue for 
this line of business declined by 14% to 
£182.7 million, reflecting in particular the 
downturn in Brazil and South Korea where 
rental licence renewals were depressed in 
the first half of the year. Our initial licence 
business was influenced principally by 
the reduced levels of activity among our 
Asian shipyard customers compared to 
the previous year. Nevertheless, sales of 
AVEVA E3D continued to gain momentum 
throughout the year and we have achieved 
significant strategic progress with our 
Global Accounts. In general, rental 
renewals remained robust among our key 
accounts, and we concluded significant 
deals with Aker Solutions, Jacobs 
Engineering, Technip, WorleyParsons and 
AMEC Foster Wheeler, among others.
Enterprise Solutions (ES) review 
and drivers
The market backdrop for our information 
management products has been 
challenging, with lengthy sales cycles  
and pressures on discretionary spend 
amongst our customers. This was 
reflected in the financial performance  
for this line of business which did not 
deliver the level of growth that we 
expected, with revenue of £24.8 million 
(2014 – £25.9 million), excluding the 
impact of the acquired 8over8 business. 
However, the innovations delivered to our 
customers this year are driving increased 
demand for our solutions to create and 
manage our customers’ Digital Assets. 
Despite the tough market backdrop, there 
were a number of notable projects during 
the period including Husky, Davie, BASF 
and BAE. We also successfully completed 
important milestones at Chevron’s 
Wheatstone project and at ConocoPhillips.
£220.4m
Constant currency revenue
76%
Recurring revenue Divisional revenue split
Engineering & 
Design 
Systems
88%
Enterprise 
Solutions
12%
 
18 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s strategic review
continued
Strategic report
Regional performance
Across our three main regions, we saw a 
mixed performance. Asia Pacific was down 
20% in the year on a constant currency 
basis, which reflected a reduction in initial 
licence fees compared to a very strong 
performance a year ago, as well as a 
particular weakness in South Korea where 
our shipyard customers have experienced 
lower activity levels due to a reduction in 
offshore Oil & Gas projects.
Revenue in EMEA and the Americas 
on a constant currency basis was 
broadly flat compared to the prior 
year, reflecting weakness in Brazil 
and parts of EMEA offset by growth 
from our Global Accounts.
Further details on our regional performance 
are contained in the Finance Review.
Our Focus
Long-term opportunity in global 
growth markets
Our business remains strongly 
positioned in its target markets, where 
the fundamentals support long-term 
growth. Despite the near-term effects 
of a weaker oil price, over the long term, 
with increased energy usage and a 
growing global population, significant 
infrastructure investment will be 
required in order to meet demand; the 
International Energy Authority (IEA) 
estimates that global energy demand 
will increase by 37% by 2040, with the 
majority of this increase occurring in 
China and India. Oil & Gas is increasingly 
difficult to extract, necessitating more 
hours to be spent in detailed design. 
This is set against a backdrop where the 
IEA forecast that liquids demand alone 
is set to rise from 87 million to 98 million 
barrels per day within just five years. Our 
software is critical to solving the biggest 
engineering challenges in the harshest 
environments. With similar fundamental 
drivers, Power offers attractive growth 
opportunities over the long term as the 
world’s emerging economies invest in 
their power generation requirements and 
the ageing infrastructure of the developed 
world is maintained and replaced. Our 
global presence and international reach 
positions us well to capitalise on these 
opportunities. Meanwhile, in times of 
Innovation leadership driving 
new opportunities
Our commitment to being the leading 
innovator in our industry remains 
undiminished and customer feedback on 
the products showcased at our AVEVA 
World Summit in October 2014 was 
hugely positive. With AVEVA E3D gaining 
momentum in the market, the next step 
will be the Cloud-enabled version. We 
demonstrated a full function version of 
AVEVA E3D on a Cloud platform proving 
no difference in performance to a locally 
installed solution. The addition of a Cloud-
based solution will offer customers rapid 
deployment as well as the flexibility to mix 
both cloud and on premise users in the 
same project. The Cloud technology is 
already being tested by several customers 
as part of our early adopter programme. 
Building on our position as the industry 
leader in visualisation technology, we 
demonstrated our new ability to ‘walk 
through’ laser scans in an environment 
indistinguishable from the actual facility. 
We also demonstrated combined AVEVA 
E3D and AVEVA NET™ technology on a 
large touchscreen that is now with early 
adopter clients, including Lundin and Shell, 
to demonstrate the next generation in 
navigating project and asset information 
in context.
We also announced major enhancements 
to AVEVA NET with improved 3D interaction 
and faster, more powerful search, 
visualisation and navigation capabilities.
Elsewhere, the launch of our new 
Information Standards Manager has been 
well received by customers. AVEVA ISM™ 
bridges the gap between OOs and EPCs, 
enabling greater control over critical 
engineering information standards across 
their projects and enterprises.
We have an exciting product pipeline 
over the medium term, particularly as our 
design tools and information management 
solutions continue to converge.
Our business remains strongly positioned in 
its target markets, where the fundamentals 
support long-term growth. 19 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
uncertainty we are focused on supporting 
our customers as they seek to become 
more efficient and adapt to the fast 
changing environment.
Our strong position in engineering design 
also offers us a unique opportunity to 
support the lifecycle of the assets our 
software tools are used to create. Our 
information management solutions, 
with the support of our growing partner 
network, are increasingly relevant to a 
wide range of asset-intensive industries 
beyond the core markets we have 
traditionally served.
Solution sales, our organisation and the 
convergence of technologies
We have been pursuing a strategy of 
increasing the number of solution sales 
we make, whereby customers opt for a 
number of our products and we increase 
our footprint within our customer base. 
With this in mind, we reported at the 
interim stage that we had realigned 
our sales organisation behind a ‘One 
AVEVA’ approach in order to better 
promote the entire AVEVA product 
range to all customers, supporting both 
design and operations. As previously 
indicated, we have also unified our 
technology organisation, following the 
convergence of our two key product 
areas, detailed engineering design and 
information management. Finally, the 
Digital Asset is now firmly reinforced 
as the vision that lies at the heart of 
our service organisation, to better 
focus on service delivery and grow our 
specialist service capabilities over time.
We expect that this streamlined solutions 
and product strategy will deliver major 
benefits to our business in coming years as 
our technologies are used increasingly in 
combination. Our future financial reporting 
will, from 2015/16, also be re-aligned 
behind this convergence and this year 
is the last in which we will disclose EDS 
and ES as our primary segments. From 
2015/16, we are monitoring the business 
on a regional basis and, therefore, this will 
become our primary method of segmental 
financial reporting.
Development of the partner channel
We continue to strengthen our 
partnerships with leading consulting, 
technology and outsourcing companies as 
we build our presence in the operational 
lifecycle of the asset. During the period 
we announced a global alliance with 
Capgemini to cover asset-intensive 
industries. Capgemini’s Digital Asset 
Lifecycle Management (DiALM) solution 
is based on AVEVA’s information 
management technology and enables 
OOs to control and manage project and 
operational performance of their assets. 
We are already supporting Capgemini on 
the Nuclear New Build programme in the 
UK and we expect this agreement to help 
extend our presence within our existing 
markets and into the other asset-intensive 
industries served by Capgemini, for 
example transport. We also announced a 
new collaboration with EMC to deliver an 
integrated software solution for capital 
projects and asset operations. Under 
the terms of this agreement, AVEVA 
and EMC have combined the two best-
in-class product suites, AVEVA NET and 
EMC® Documentum® Engineering, Plant 
and Facilities Management (EPFM), into a 
single solution. Elsewhere, we formalised 
our partnership agreement with ETAP 
for seamless data exchange on the most 
complex electrical installations in all types 
of process and power plants, ships and 
offshore facilities.
Strong growth from AVEVA E3D
As mentioned above, AVEVA E3D has 
proven to be a catalyst for more solution 
sales particularly within our Global 
Accounts business, but we are also making 
progress across the rest of our customer 
base. Notable deals in the period included 
WS Atkins, who have chosen AVEVA E3D 
and Laser Modeller™ to support lean 
construction processes. KBR selected 
AVEVA E3D for global projects as part of 
a complete integrated engineering and 
design environment. Tianchen, one of 
China’s largest engineering contractors 
in the chemical processing industry, 
standardised on AVEVA E3D. D3SCOM 
Engineering Sdn. Bhd., a specialist in 
intelligent modelling engineering services, 
also adopted AVEVA E3D and Laser 
Modeller for brownfield projects with 
Owner Operators in Malaysia.
Management of our cost base
Recognising the more difficult trading 
conditions in the first half of the financial 
year, we took early action to achieve cost-
efficiencies. This, combined with lower 
sales commissions and bonuses during 
the period, has enabled us to limit the 
impact on profitability caused by lower 
than planned revenue. In addition, we have 
taken further action to address the cost 
base by rationalising some of our regional 
offices and reducing headcount in some 
areas of the business. This will deliver 
annualised savings of approximately  
£3.0 million which will help offset the cost 
increases we face in 2015/16 as a result of 
inflation, increased bonus and commission 
costs and the annualised effect of new 
hires made in 2014/15.
Our Achievements
Strategic progress with Global Accounts
Our Global Accounts EPC program 
continued to bear fruit over the past 
year. The challenges seen in our end 
user markets are prompting our Global 
Accounts to take the opportunity to 
invest in the latest AVEVA technologies in 
order to maximise their competitiveness 
and business advantage. The integrated 
Bubbleview™ laser capability within AVEVA 
E3D is now making this solution the de 
facto standard for all future brownfield 
projects, eliminating or reducing re-
modelling activities by over 90%. Beyond 
AVEVA E3D, there is also increased uptake 
and deployment of AVEVA NET across our 
Global Accounts, as they continue their 
journey towards true data-centric working 
built around a trusted digital asset.
I am especially pleased to be able to 
report a new significant contract with Aker 
Solutions of Norway which builds on the 
fantastic relationship we have enjoyed 
with them over the last 20 years. Aker 
has invested in PDMS™ throughout this 
period and is now using this platform to 
develop and deploy AVEVA E3D across 
their business. This is a good example of 
how we are deepening the relationships 
with our customers whilst increasing the 
revenue opportunity.
