 Group Chief Executive’s review
“  Build to Last is putting in place 
the foundations to deliver value for 
clients, colleagues, shareholders 
and wider society.”
  Read more on pages 14-17
T ransforming the business
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
04 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 This was a year of fundamental change at Balfour 
Beatty as the Build to Last transformation programme 
was implemented.
Coming into 2015, the business performance had 
deteriorated as a decade of forced growth culminated 
in an overly complex business, poor contract discipline 
and unaffordable overhead costs. Whilst the sale of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff in late 2014 provided liquidity to the 
balance sheet, the cash situation for the Group remained 
a challenge.
Decisive action was taken to arrest the decline. The Build 
to Last transformation programme was launched in early 
2015, beginning with a 24-month “self-help” phase. 
Senior leadership was upgraded and immediate steps 
taken to strengthen governance, controls and processes. 
Cost reduction plans were agreed, the proposed share 
buy-back was cancelled, the dividend suspended and 
agreement reached to re-phase a deficit contribution to 
the pension fund. 
The initial “self-help” phase of Build to Last targeted 
£200m cash in and £100m of cost out within 24 months. 
Half way through this period the Group is on course 
to deliver on these specific targets and the progress 
made in improving the cash performance in 2015 gives 
confidence that colleagues, at every level, are fully 
engaged in delivering change.
Build to Last is designed to address the Group’s 
performance as it affects all stakeholders – customers 
and supply chain, employees and subcontractors, 
investors and communities – by driving continuous 
measurable improvement. The steps that are 
being taken are often, in themselves, simple and 
straightforward. However, taken together they are 
transforming Balfour Beatty against four goals: Lean, 
Expert, Trusted and Safe.
In 2016, Balfour Beatty will continue to work through the 
legacy contracts, increasingly able to look to a future as 
an organisation with lean ways of working, differentiated 
by its experts, trusted by clients and leading on safe 
working practices. Build to Last is putting in place the 
foundations to deliver value for clients, colleagues, 
shareholders and wider society.
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
05 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
