 Chairman’s introduction
2015 is the year that Balfour Beatty began making the 
changes that are necessary to restore the business 
to strength.
Once again the financial results are disappointing, 
reflecting the legacy issues which have scarred 
Balfour Beatty in recent years. However, despite these 
problems Balfour Beatty retains one of the strongest 
balance sheets in the sector, supportive clients, 
a dedicated workforce and growing core markets 
providing a solid platform from which to turn around 
our business.
Performance
With new governance and controls introduced 
across the business, Balfour Beatty is repositioning, 
withdrawing from certain types of work and focusing 
on the more profitable opportunities. As we do so, 
we have seen a small reduction in underlying revenues 
(2%) and order book (4%). However, as you would 
expect, the quality of new orders we have chosen 
to bid for and won has improved.
The underlying loss from continuing operations was 
£106 million – losses in Construction Services of 
£229 million were largely caused by historic issues in 
the UK, US and Middle East. Support Services profits 
of £24 million reflect, in part, the point in the regulatory 
cycle of some of its major customers.
The Investments business continued to perform 
strongly. The portfolio was valued at £1.24 billion. 
We continue to invest in new opportunities and realise 
value at the point where we believe it is in the optimum 
interest of shareholders to do so. The portfolio provides 
unique balance to the Group and means that Balfour 
Beatty maintains one of the strongest balance sheets 
in the sector.
Build to Last
Our annual report for 2014 set out Balfour Beatty’s self-
help transformation plan – Build to Last. In this year’s 
report, we are able to provide you with more detail 
about how the plan has been rolled out across the 
business; the difference it is making; and the progress 
we have made to deliver our initial, Phase One targets 
of £200 million cash in and £100 million cost out over 
24 months. We are on course to meet these targets.
Management of the business has been strengthened 
with a new leadership team and an organisation  
re-aligned with key customer segments. The Build to Last 
programme is gaining traction throughout the business, 
demonstrated by the significant improvement in the 
Group’s cash performance this year.
“  Whilst much remains to be  
done, I am confident that we 
have in place the right foundations 
and the right management to 
deliver the long-term success 
of the business.”
Restoring Balfour Beatty  
to strength
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
02 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Markets
Importantly, we are continuing to win new business 
across our core markets – the order book is worth 
£11.0 billion. Our new work is not business which is 
being bought at the expense of future profitability, 
but good business won on better terms across 
our operations. 
Against a backdrop of rising markets, our customers 
recognise the expertise that exists within Balfour 
Beatty’s teams. That is why we are selected for jobs 
such as the Thames Tideway tunnel, the ‘Smart 
Motorways’ work on the M5, M6 and M4 and the 
Bergstrom Expressway, to name just a few. 
The Board
I joined the Board on 26 March, one of five new Board 
members in 2015. Strengthening the Board has been 
a key priority for me since my appointment.
Leo Quinn joined as Group Chief Executive on 
1 January, the transformation plan he started 
implementing from day one was outlined in the 2014 
report. Philip Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, took up 
his appointment in June. Philip was previously Group 
Finance Director at Hogg Robinson Group plc. Prior to 
which, he was Group Finance Director at VT Group.
Stephen Billingham and Stuart Doughty joined as non-
executive Directors. Stephen has immense experience 
of different industries, including construction and 
support services, both from the supplier and the client 
side, as well as having a strong background in finance 
in several complex organisations. Stuart is the former 
Chief Executive of engineering company Costain plc, 
and has 45 years of highly relevant, in-depth experience 
in the construction industry.
We have also had four retirements from the Board 
during the year: my predecessor, Steve Marshall, 
Duncan Magrath, Robert Amen and Peter Zinkin. 
Quite remarkably Peter joined the business in 1981 and 
I wish to thank him, Duncan, Robert and Steve for their 
time at Balfour Beatty.
Our people
Balfour Beatty is a people business and I am proud of 
the expertise, enthusiasm and dedication that I see 
from so many of our colleagues. 2015 has been an 
unprecedented year of change at Balfour Beatty and 
the early successes and importantly the continued 
focus on delivering for our clients is a result of the 
dedication of so many colleagues. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for 
the commitment they have demonstrated this year.
Contracting is an inherently dangerous industry; it is 
therefore incumbent from the Board to the newest 
apprentice joining the firm to understand the risks 
and take action to mitigate and prevent accidents. 
Safety is one of our core Build to Last goals – with our 
objective being Zero Harm. The new Board Safety and 
Sustainability Committee assesses serious incidents to 
review that we are doing all we can to ensure that our 
workers, suppliers, subcontractors and members of the 
public with whom we interact are kept safe. 
Across our business, four people working for Balfour 
Beatty died during 2015. A fifth was killed in Aberdeen 
early in 2016. Words are inadequate to express my 
regret that there are five families mourning their loved 
ones. On behalf of the Board, I would like to formally 
send our condolences and give an assurance that we 
will do all we can to prevent future accidents.
Dividend
By the end of 2016, Balfour Beatty will have achieved 
its Phase One targets: costs are coming down and cash 
flow has improved substantially, such that the Board 
expects to reinstate the dividend, at an appropriate 
level, at the interim results in August 2016.
Conclusion
As you will read in this report, this has been a year of 
significant and necessary change at Balfour Beatty. 
Whilst much remains to be done, I am confident that 
we have in place the right foundations and the right 
management to deliver the long-term success of the 
business and one which can provide our customers, 
employees and shareholders with superior returns.
Philip Aiken AM
Chairman
03 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
