 1
HIGHLIGHTS
 KEY BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS IN THE YEAR INCLUDE:
• generated revenue of $215.0 million; Mobile revenues nearly tripled 
 year-on-year to $41.4 million, which combined with Desktop Video and 
 Programmatic now constitute the majority of revenue streams;
• in a year of significant industry changes, generated a Loss before 
 T ax of $24.8 million, although on an adjusted basis, the Group still 
 generated positive adjusted EBITDA
*
 of $3.5 million; and cash from 
 operations of $5.0 million, excluding one time or exceptional charges;
• maintained a strong, debt free balance sheet with closing cash  
 and cash equivalents of $95.7 million, after funding $27.8 million 
 for four acquisitions and technology investments;
• acquired L YFE mobile, an innovative mobile Demand Side Platform 
 (DSP) and Data Management Platform (DMP);
• acquired AdKarma LLC, a leading video Supply Side Platform (SSP);
• acquired All Media Network, LLC, gaining a number of premium 
 consumer properties, including, Sidereel.com, Allmusic.com, 
 Allmovie.com and Celebified.com;
• executed T echnology Licensing deal with Zenovia Digital Exchange;
• forged key partnerships with leading viewability and verification
 companies, including Integral Ad Science, Nielsen Double Verify,
 Co Score and Forensiq to pre-filter, segment and enhance traffic
 quality and measurement;
• expanded the Board of Directors with the appointment of  
 Mr. Raj Chellaraj of Stanford University;
• expanded the executive leadership team with the appointment  
 of senior product, engineering and operations staff; and
• consolidated key brand advertising entities under a single trade
 brand, RhythmOne, to deliver on the promise of cross-screen
 advertising at scale, across the Company’s supply base.
*Non-GAAP Measures
• references to adjusted EBITDA. This financial measure does  
 not have any standardized meaning prescribed by IFRS and  
 is therefore referred to as a non-GAAP measures. The non-GAAP
 measure used by blinkx may not be comparable to similar  
 measures used by other companies; and
• adjusted EBITDA is defined as profit attributable to equity holders 
 of the parent before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, 
 share-based payment expense, and acquisition and exceptional costs. 
 Management believes that this measure is a useful supplemental 
 metric as it provides an indication of the results generated by the 
 Company’s principal business activities prior to consideration of how 
 the results are impacted by non-recurring costs, how the results are 
 taxed in various jurisdictions, or how the results are affected by the 
 accounting standards associated with the Group’s share-based 
 payment expense.
Notes: FY2015 numbers are in line one; FY2014 numbers are in line two.
1. Excludes acquisitions and non-recurring expenses, share-based compensation and other income.
OVER THE PAST YEAR,  
THE COMPANY MADE  
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS 
TO STABILIZE ITS  
DESKTOP BUSINESS,  
AND CONTINUED TO  
INVEST IN VIDEO, MOBILE 
AND PROGRAMMATIC  
CAPABILITIES –  
THE KEY INDUSTRY 
GROWTH AREAS.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
This has been a transformational year for both the online advertising 
sector and blinkx. Revenue growth continued to transition toward 
Mobile and Video, specifically through automated or “Programmatic” 
trading channels. Over the past year, the Company made significant 
progress to stabilize its desktop business, and continued to invest in 
video, mobile and Programmatic capabilities – the key industry 
growth areas. During the year, we also launched a major initiative to 
consolidate the product, technology, sales and marketing strategy 
and operations to better align with evolving advertiser requirements.
REVENUE
$215.0 M
$247.2 M
ADJ. EBITDA
1
$3.5 M
$39.6 M
ADJ. PBT
-$7.8 M
$31.9 M
NET CASH
$95.7 M
$126.9 M
