  STRA TEGIC REPORT
Chairman’ s Statement
In my first annual statement as Chairman, I am pleased 
to report on a successful year with solid growth and good 
progress made against our strategic objectives.
Performance for the year
It was a positive year for Bonmarché. There was good 
progress underlying the increased Group revenue and 
profit before tax, in a year which, overall, was challenging.
Implementation of the strategy progressed well, 
with improvements and developments in each of the 
four key areas of: product; online/multi-channel; new 
space, and store environment/service improvements.
The Bonmarché brand remains at the heart of the 
business, and I am encouraged by the work that has 
been started to make more of this; I believe there are 
many potential customers who will be delighted when 
they discover Bonmarché for the first time. I am excited 
by the possibilities of the fledgling menswear range, 
and the Ann Harvey sub-brand, both of which were 
launched as trials. Meanwhile, the David Emanuel 
sub-brand continues to play an important part.
The financial position of the business remains very sound, 
with a debt-free balance sheet which provides a stable 
platform for the future.
It is pleasing that once again our efforts have been 
recognised by others. Bonmarché won ‘IPO of the Year’ 
at the 2014 Small Cap Awards, and the Drapers Record 
award for ‘Best Fashion Retailer of the Year over £125m’, 
a respected award in the fashion retail industry. Finally, 
in the 2015 ‘Which’ annual retailer survey, we were voted 
second (to John Lewis) by consumers, in the ‘Clothing 
and Shoes’ category.
I would like to take this opportunity to recognise each and 
every one of our 3,317 colleagues here. Our store, warehouse, 
and head office support colleagues form a fantastic team 
working together to delight our customers. 
The Board
Throughout the year, the Board comprised Tim Mason 
as Chairman, Ishbel Macpherson as Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director, me as independent Non-executive 
Director, Beth Butterwick as Chief Executive and Stephen 
Alldridge as Finance Director.
Tim was a partner of Sun European Partners, LLP (‘Sun’), 
whose affiliate is the Company’s majority shareholder, 
and was its appointee on the Board. Tim stepped down 
as a partner of Sun and therefore also as Chairman of 
the Company, and left the Board on 29 April 2015. I would 
like to take this opportunity to extend warm thanks to 
Tim, who, as Chairman since 2013, made an invaluable 
contribution to the business during a period of great 
change, before and during the IPO process, and as 
a public company.
A year of solid growth
04 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In Tim’s place, I was appointed as independent 
Non-executive Chairman and Michael Kalb, who 
is a senior managing director at Sun and has been 
working with the Company since its initial acquisition 
by Sun, joined the Board as Sun’s appointee, as a 
non-independent Non-executive Director. I would 
like to welcome Michael to the Board and we look 
forward to his contribution over the coming years.
As a consequence of the other Board changes, 
Ishbel has assumed Chairmanship of the Remuneration 
Committee, in addition to her existing roles as Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. 
Corporate governance
For the purposes of the UK Code, we consider 
Bonmarché to be a ‘smaller’ company, and the 
composition of the Board, Audit and Remuneration 
Committees was therefore compliant, during the year, 
with the relevant UK Code provisions. We will keep 
the composition of the Board under review, and make 
changes if we feel they are required. I will continue 
to serve on the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
until such time as we appoint a new independent 
Non-executive Director. The Board feels there is 
no immediate need to make such an appointment, 
but has undertaken to keep this under review.
I am fully committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance and to being transparent about 
our arrangements and intentions for future improvement. 
I am pleased with the progress we have made during 
the year and will ensure that governance remains 
at the forefront of our minds as we move forward.
26
Read more about our corporate  
governance on page 26
Dividend
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend 
of 4.5 pence per share. If approved by shareholders at 
the AGM on 30 July 2015, it will be paid on 4 August 2015 
to shareholders on the register on 26 June 2015.
Outlook
I believe that the outlook for the business in the coming 
year is positive. We have multiple growth opportunities to 
build upon and our core quality and value proposition will 
continue to be popular as the market gradually recovers. 
I look forward to working with the Board and our colleagues 
on what I expect will be another exciting year.
John Coleman
Chairman
12 June 2015
We specialise in 
fashion, style, 
quality and fit!
David Emanuel clothes are great and 
the sizes are great and good prices. I do 
recommend this to anyone as Bonmarché 
clothes are good quality and good prices.
Jayne, Lanarkshire
I love all Bonmarché clothes because 
they are really good quality, stylish and 
a generous fit. It’s very hard to find nice 
clothing when you are on the large side 
and an older lady. Whether I buy online or 
in my local store I always get great service.
Maggy, West Yorkshire
I love the range of clothing in Bonmarché 
at the moment. The quality and excellent 
value of everything you try on. It’s hard 
to choose what to buy first!
Susan, Suffolk
CUSTOMER FOCUS
BONMARCHÉ HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report 2015 05
