 23853.04   16 June 2015 11:42 AM   Proof 7
3
STRATEGIC REPORT
PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
www.bloomsbury.com
Stock Code: BMY
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
T
he Group has had a good year. Total revenue 
is up 1% and operating profit before 
highlighted items is up 1.2%, in line with market 
expectations. We have also made encouraging 
progress on a number of our strategic objectives. 
During the year we have taken in-house more of our 
sales and marketing activities as we look to strengthen 
direct relationships with our customers, especially in 
non-consumer areas. Aiming for more predictable 
earnings, Bloomsbury continues to broaden its business. 
The acquisition of Osprey Publishing is an example. As a 
specialist military and natural history publisher, Osprey’s 
sales are not reliant on traditional book retailers and 
involve more direct relationships with customers who 
share the specialist interests. We continue to be open 
to acquisitions that help us to deliver our strategy, in 
particular to taking attractive opportunities to increase our 
non-consumer revenues.
Ian Cormack stands down as a Non-Executive Director 
following the Annual General Meeting. Ian has chaired 
the Audit Committee with great authority and has made 
a major contribution to the operation of the Board. We 
will miss him. After an extensive search process, we are 
delighted to announce our intention for John Warren 
to join the Board following the Annual General Meeting.  
He will succeed Ian Cormack as an Independent Non-
Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair. John is a 
Chartered Accountant with considerable City experience 
gained as audit committee chair of various businesses 
including Welsh Water, Greencore Group Plc, 4Imprint 
Plc, Bovis Homes Plc, Spectris Plc and others.  He also was 
Finance Director of WH Smith Plc and United Biscuits Plc.  
We look forward to working with him.  We will announce 
further information in accordance with the listing rules 
upon John’s appointment. 
I would like to congratulate Bill Swainson, Senior 
Commissioning Editor, who is leaving the Company this 
month on his OBE for services to literary translation and 
for his 15 years of exceptional service to Bloomsbury. I 
would also like to thank Kathy Rooney for her 29 years of 
outstanding deal making and reference publishing as 
Managing Director of Bloomsbury Information and as a 
member of our Executive Committee. We wish them well.
There is a wealth of talent across the Bloomsbury 
Group. I would like to acknowledge again the immense 
contribution of everyone in Bloomsbury and, on behalf 
of the Board, to thank all staff for their hard work 
and dedication. The commitment to excellence, the 
entrepreneurialism and the imagination of our staff are 
critical to our progress and to our ambition to provide the 
best possible service to our authors and for users of our 
online services. The overall strength of our Bloomsbury 
team enables us to face the challenges with confidence. 
Sir Anthony Salz  
Non-Executive Chairman  
Bloomsbury Fashion Central is a recently launched 
online service that provides customers with access to 
a substantial resource of fashion related content.
23853 Bloomsbury Annual Report 2015 Proof 7.indd   3 16/06/2015   11:44:41
