  STRA TEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive’ s Report
Introduction
I am satisfied with the current year’s performance, in a 
year of contrasts. A strong performance in the first half 
was supported by good summer weather; however, the 
mild autumn created more difficult trading conditions 
in the second half of the year. 
Against this backdrop, we have achieved solid profit 
growth. During the second half of the year in particular, 
the loyalty of our core customers and our ability to maintain 
a tight control on costs have been key strengths. The Group’s 
financial position is sound, and we enter the new financial 
year with a strong balance sheet.
We remain focused on implementing our strategy, which 
is set out below.
Trading review
Sales (in this report, we will refer to revenue as ‘sales’) 
for the year increased by 8.7%, with store only like-for-like 
(‘LFL’) sales increasing by 4.0%, 6.0% including online. 
This increased our market share by 12.8%, to 4.4% of the 
UK women’s value clothing market (as measured by Kantar).
During the first half of the year, sales increased by 11.8% 
and store LFL sales by 7.8%. Multi-channel made good 
progress, growing 50.6% compared to H1 the previous 
year. The warmer than average weather created particularly 
strong demand for big seasonal categories such as jersey 
tops, cropped trousers, shorts and swimwear. 
In the second half of the year, sales increased by 5.7%, 
store LFL sales by 0.2% and multi-channel grew by 25.6%. 
The difficulties of the autumn season have been widely 
reported elsewhere, and Bonmarché was not immune to 
the effects of the mild conditions. Our customers had less 
reason than normal to invest in heavier clothing such as 
knitwear and coats, when the product mix in stores had 
shifted towards these items. In addition, we have identified 
that, for the coming autumn season, improvements can 
be made to elements of our outerwear and knitwear ranges, 
and we have incorporated the lessons learned. We will also 
reduce the reliance on coats and knitwear during the early 
autumn months. 
The mild autumn also resulted in increasing levels of 
discounting activity on the high street, progressively 
intensifying and culminating in widespread price reductions 
on ‘Black Friday’, which continued unabated in the approach 
to Christmas. This took the edge off December’s full price 
sales with many ‘sales’ (including ours) beginning before 
Christmas, and accordingly, the impact of the January sale 
was reduced, leading to a difficult fourth quarter. 
Chief Executive’s Report: 
Our business model  
on page 08
08
Our strategic pillars 
on pages 12 to 15
12
Our key performance  
indicators on pages 16 to 17
16
We have delivered solid profit 
growth in a year of contrasts. We 
remain focused on implementing 
our strategy, and improving how 
we serve our customers. 
Our principal risks  
on pages 18 to 19
18
06 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Given these challenges, we are pleased with the overall 
result, and in particular, our ability to achieve an end of 
season stock holding which was almost as low as it was 
in March 2014, despite the increase in store numbers.
Financial results
Profit before tax (‘PBT’) was £12.4m, an increase of 55.3% 
on the £8.0m reported for FY14. The underlying PBT 
increase was 10.4% on the £11.2m pre-exceptional figure 
reported for FY14.
Sales grew in the core LFL retail estate, from opening 
new retail outlets, and online. There was a slight growth 
in the product gross margin, and an increase in operating 
expenses as we invested in overhead costs to support the 
business’s growth. This is explained in more detail in the 
Financial Review on page 20.
Strategic review
Product
A core principle of our product strategy is ‘offering our 
customer what she wants’. We describe below the ways in 
which we have striven to do this during the year under review.
Build back the gaps in the ranges
We have continued to grow sales in the categories of 
t-shirts, tops, trousers, lingerie and nightwear, where our 
offer had previously been incomplete.
Develop categories where our sales mix is lower than 
the norm
We have increased the mix of sales as a percentage of 
the total, in categories where our ranges had been under 
represented compared to the norm in women’s fashion 
retail. The main categories where we increased sales as 
a result of this initiative were dresses, swimwear, footwear 
and accessories. The new styles introduced have 
resonated well with our customers.
Making the ranges more fashionable
Customers have consistently told us (for example, 
through our quarterly ‘mystery shopper’ programme) 
that they want more fashionable products. We have 
therefore ensured that we have continued to increase the 
percentage mix of our contemporary fashion offer – but 
without alienating customers who are slower to make the 
move away from more traditional items. 
Many of these more fashionable designs have been 
introduced via the David Emanuel label, which tends 
to feature clothing focused towards special occasions. 
This sub-brand continued to account for c. 12% of sales 
during the year under review. 
Hero lines
These are everyday staples that customers expect us to 
stock at all times and with complete availability of sizes. 
Sales of these core lines grew by 15% and increased their 
mix of total sales to 15%.
Great choice and 
value for money!
Once again Bonmarché as far as I am 
concerned has a brilliant selection of 
clothing. After trying other fashion shops 
I always return to my Bonmarché store. 
I would recommend (and often do) you 
to anyone. As fashions change you ring 
in the changes at very competitive 
prices and good quality.
Shelah, Lincolnshire
I love Bonmarché clothes; they are 
quality and value. The online ordering 
is fast and the shop staff are very helpful. 
Maggy, Cambridgeshire
I find that Bonmarché products are 
always good value for money and usually 
far cheaper than other high street stores.
Trina, North Yorkshire
CUSTOMER FOCUS
BONMARCHÉ HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report 2015 07
