 24472.04    4 March 2016 10:52 AM    PROOF 5
Chairman’s statement
“The Group is well positioned 
and has exciting prospects going 
forward. We have developed 
a strong, high performance 
culture serving a wide range of 
international customers, with 
a committed workforce and 
absolute integrity in our operating 
procedures. ”
A.M. Thomson l Chairman
Overview
2015 was a year of considerable challenge for the Group. Mixed 
macro-economic conditions persisted throughout the year in 
many of the countries in which we operate. The automotive and 
aerospace markets remained in growth mode, but this was not 
enough to offset the revenue dip, particularly in the energy and 
general industrial sectors. 
I am, however, very pleased to report that the Group, under the 
stewardship of Stephen Harris and his executive team, successfully 
navigated the business through these tough conditions and we 
remain in a strong financial position.
Dividend
The Board considers the dividend to be an important component 
of shareholder returns and is proposing a final ordinary dividend 
of 10.3p, an increase of 5.1%, which will be paid on 3 June 
2016, subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting. This brings the total ordinary dividend for 2015 to 15.1p 
(2014: 14.4p) costing £28.7m which represents a year-on-year 
increase of 4.9%. Recognising the net cash position of the Group 
the Board is, for the third successive year, recommending a 
supplemental distribution by way of a special dividend, also payable 
on 3 June 2016, amounting to 10.0p per share (2014: 20.0p) costing 
£19.0m (2014: £38.1m).
Governance and reporting
One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to promote effective 
governance across the Group thus ensuring that we remain a 
successful and sustainable entity with good governance procedures 
practised across all 24 countries in which the Group operates. To 
enable shareholders to understand how this goal is achieved we 
have provided a corporate governance statement on page 38 of 
this Annual Report. This describes how the governance structure 
underpins the delivery of the Group’s business strategy. On page 
24 we have also outlined the principal risks that may prevent the 
business from achieving its objectives and the actions being taken 
to overcome these potential obstacles.
During the year we commissioned an external evaluation of the 
Board’s performance. The findings confirmed that the Board is 
well balanced with a diverse mix of skills and experience and is 
performing effectively. Nevertheless the report indicates that there 
is scope for improvement and we shall be working to ensure that 
the governance is further improved in 2016.
02 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04    4 March 2016 10:52 AM    PROOF 5
Hand-in-hand with good governance goes transparent reporting, 
and during 2015 we have made further changes to the Annual 
Report to ensure that this is achieved. This includes a viability 
statement, which can be found on page 27 of this Annual Report 
and also a complete listing of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings. 
In part these are mandated by changes in UK reporting regulation, 
others arise through changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
code, and sometimes by proactively adopting best practice as it 
evolves.
The drive for ongoing improvement in environmental and 
safety reporting is described in the Corporate responsibility and 
sustainability section of this Annual Report on pages 28 to 34.  
It should be noted that these topics now make up a material part  
of each management committee and Board meeting.
Board matters
It is the responsibility of every Board to ensure that there is an 
appropriate succession plan in place across the business, including 
for the Board of Directors. This is integral to the successful delivery 
of the Group strategy and underpins the effectiveness of the Board. 
During the year the Nomination Committee performed an in-depth 
review of its Board succession plan. 
Raj Rajagopal, the Senior Independent Director, who joined the 
Board in September 2008, will retire after the 2016 AGM. His wise 
counsel has been invaluable throughout the whole period of Group 
transformation. We thank him for his contribution over the last  
eight years and wish him well for the future. We have engaged 
Zygos Partners, a firm of international search consultants, to work 
with us to identify a new non-executive director. We will report to 
shareholders on progress as appropriate.
Ian Duncan, who is a qualified Chartered Accountant, joined the 
Board in November 2014 and assumed the Chair of the Audit 
Committee after the 2015 AGM. Ian is a highly experienced 
independent director having served a number of international 
companies in both executive and non-executive Board positions 
over the last 15 years. I am pleased to report that Ian will become 
our Senior Independent Director following the 2016 AGM in May. 
David Landless, the Group Finance Director, has informed the 
Board of his intention to retire as a director of the Board. David has 
agreed to remain with the Group to ensure a smooth handover to 
his successor and he will oversee the publication of the Group’s 
2016 full year results if the handover has not been completed ahead 
of this date. On behalf of the Board I would like to thank David 
for his dedication and exceptional service to the Group over many 
years and we wish him all the best in the next stage of this career 
as he grows his non-executive director portfolio.
People
Whilst Bodycote has become a large Group operating on a 
global basis, we have tried to maintain the agility of a smaller 
company, with a flat organisational structure and clear lines of 
responsibility, thus enabling us to provide a fast and efficient 
service to our customers. Bodycote is a first-class service business, 
our employees are our ambassadors, and with their continued 
commitment and professionalism we can achieve our ambitious 
plans. I would like to thank each and every one of them for their 
enthusiasm, hard work and commitment throughout 2015. 
Despite the improvement in the overall performance of safety 
across the Group it is with great regret that I have to report that one 
of our employees was seriously injured in an accident at a facility 
in North America in October 2015 and, as a result of these injuries, 
the employee died on 17 February 2016. 
Shareholders
During the year I met with a number of Bodycote’s largest 
shareholders and received positive feedback from them on their 
views of the Group. In the coming year I will maintain this valuable 
dialogue and also look forward to meeting as many shareholders 
as possible at this year’s AGM in May, when there will be an 
opportunity to discuss the Group’s business and future prospects 
with Board members.
Summary
The performance of the Group was resilient throughout 2015. This 
reflects the decisive cost actions taken in the face of weak market 
conditions, together with the delivery of an improved business mix.
The Group is well positioned and has exciting prospects going 
forward. We have developed a strong, high-performance culture 
serving a wide range of international customers, with a committed 
workforce and absolute integrity in our operating procedures. The 
long-term prospects for the Group are encouraging and I remain 
confident that these should ensure an attractive return for both our 
employees and our shareholders over the coming years.
A.M. Thomson
Chairman
25 February 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
03 www.bodycote.com Stock code: BOY
