 24472.04    4 March 2016 10:52 AM    PROOF 5
Chief Executive’s review
“The Group delivered a resilient 
performance in 2015. The speed 
and effectiveness of management’s 
actions, in addition to the continued 
focus on improved mix, enabled 
headline operating margins to be 
sustained. ” 
S.C. Harris l Group Chief Executive
Overview
The Group benefits from serving a broad spread of industrial 
sectors and geographies. In 2015 the macro-economics were 
favourable for our aerospace and automotive sectors, but the 
rapid decline in oil prices weighed heavily on our customers in the 
energy sector. The weakness in the energy sector bled over into 
the general industrial markets and was further compounded by 
the slowing growth in China, weakening global demand for many 
commodities and the embargo on global trade with Russia.
The net result for Bodycote was a 7% decline in revenue to 
£567 .2m (2014: £609.1m). However, headline operating profit only 
reduced by 8% to £102.1m (2014: £111 .1m), including negative 
foreign currency translation of £2.3m. 
The potential impact the weakening global demand conditions 
would have on the Group started to become clear early in the year. 
As a consequence, management decided to undertake a series of 
actions to mitigate the situation, some giving immediate benefit, 
while others are aimed at accelerating future growth.
A restructuring programme was announced at the half year, with 
an associated charge of £20m (of which £9m related to non-cash 
impairments) and which focused on our facilities serving the 
oil services and general industrial sectors. By year end we had 
successfully exited the businesses in Brazil and India. Elsewhere 
we have closed five facilities and consolidated poorly performing 
activities within a further six facilities. Closure of an additional five 
facilities will be completed in the first half of 2016. Equipment is 
being relocated within the Group, and in many cases business is 
being transferred to neighbouring facilities.
The speed and effectiveness of management’s actions, in 
conjunction with the ongoing drive for mix and efficiency 
improvements, have been such that the headline margin
1
 has  
been sustained at 18%.
04 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04    4 March 2016 10:52 AM    PROOF 5
Improving the flexibility of the Group’s cost base has been a high 
priority for several years. A noteworthy element of this has been 
greater use of temporary labour which can be flexed at little or no 
cost to suit the prevailing workload. Temporary employees were 
reduced by 11% during the year, however at year end, temporary 
and contract labour still represented 12.7% of total employees.
Basic headline earnings per share was 39.5p, a decline of 9.8% 
which reflects the absence of the one-off tax credit the Group 
enjoyed in 2014. Bodycote is reporting another year of strong cash 
generation, with 80% of headline operating profit turned into cash
2
 
(2014: 90%). As a result, the Group continues to be in a strong 
financial position and had net cash of £12.3m at 31 December 2015. 
Return on capital employed remained excellent at 19.0% for the 
year (2014: 20.7%).
Strategic progress
To enhance our future growth we have accelerated investment in 
high growth potential areas, mindful of the Group’s 20% hurdle rate 
for return on capital employed. The increase in capital expenditure 
was driven by the number of greenfield facilities under construction 
along with specific capacity expansion in Specialist Technologies 
and civil aerospace. Nine greenfield sites were under construction 
in 2015, of which four are for Specialist Technologies and three are 
in the targeted expanding markets of Eastern Europe, Mexico and 
China. Additionally, capacity has been expanded at specific existing 
Specialist Technologies and civil aerospace facilities.
Overall capital investment increased by 14% to £61m, 
corresponding to 1 .2 times depreciation.
The strategy of preferential investment in Specialist Technologies 
continues to benefit the Group. While two of these technologies, 
Surface Technology and HIP Product Fabrication, were hard hit  
by the decline in activity in the oil sector, the remaining four 
showed good growth. Average margins continue to exceed 30%  
in Specialist T echnologies.
During the year we launched a new specialist technology in 
the field of ion implantation. We believe it to be the only form 
of ion implantation that is capable of processing bulk material. 
Applications include hardening of materials without temperature 
distortion and the reduction of surface friction in polymers, 
eliminating the need for lubrication. Sales are currently at the  
pilot stage.
The pursuit of operational excellence in the Group is a major 
priority. Part of this effort is a goal to improve the margins in the AGI 
Classical Heat Treatment business to the level we have been able to 
achieve in ADE Classical Heat Treatment. This is particularly the case 
in AGI in Europe where margins have been lower for some years. 
One of the tools used for this is the Bodycote Margin Model which 
employs a job costing methodology and strategic pricing process 
to help facilities drive the mix of work towards higher added value. 
Lean techniques are also being deployed at an increasing rate, 
which help to improve production flows and efficiencies. This 
work, in conjunction with the restructuring actions taken, drove 
the margins in the AGI business up by 90 bps, notwithstanding the 
decline in revenues.
During 2015 we continued to pursue potential acquisitions, although 
none were completed during the year. The acquisition priorities 
are divided into two broad areas. The first is to acquire bolt-on 
activities in Classical Heat Treatment that will enhance our network 
of operations. These will typically be small businesses in Western 
Europe and North America as there are few, if any, suitable targets 
outside of these territories and very few of any scale. The second 
area we look to acquire in is Specialist Technologies. There are few 
potential targets given the rarity of competitors, but some of the 
targets are of a larger scale. We also actively pursue ideas in areas 
adjacent to our existing technologies. The environment in 2016 
looks more conducive to making acquisitions and the Group is well 
placed should sufficiently attractive targets become available. 
Summary and outlook 
The Group delivered a resilient performance in 2015. Automotive 
and aerospace revenues moved ahead. However, the decline in oil 
price combined with downward pressures on our general industrial 
business led to Group revenues falling by 4% at constant exchange 
rates. The speed and effectiveness of management’s actions, in 
addition to the continued focus on improved mix, enabled headline 
operating margins to be sustained. Recognising the Group’s 
net cash position, the Board is recommending a further special 
dividend. 
The Group will continue to follow its strategy of investing in areas 
of robust revenue opportunity, notably in Specialist Technologies 
and in higher growth territories, as well as further enriching  the 
mix towards higher added value services. The Board is confident 
that management’s continued focus on business improvements will 
generate good returns throughout the cycle.
S.C. Harris
Group Chief Executive
25 February 2016
1. Return on sales is defined as headline operating profit as a percentage of 
revenue.
2. Cash conversion is defined as headline operating cash as a percentage of 
headline operating profit.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
05 www.bodycote.com Stock code: BOY
