 5
Anthony Bettencourt
Chairman of the Board of Directors
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Financial Year 2015 was a transformational and challenging 
year for both the online advertising sector and blinkx. Revenue 
growth continued to transition toward mobile and video, 
specifically through automated or “Programmatic” trading 
channels. Supply aggregators faced the growing requirement 
of representing audience targeting across devices, and the 
sector continued to show signs of rapid consolidation in a race 
toward scale and profitability.
Against this backdrop, the Company continued to execute 
against its strategy to pursue key growth opportunities by 
investing in mobile and Programmatic capabilities, and also 
made significant progress to stabilize its desktop business. 
During the year, blinkx also implemented a major initiative to 
consolidate its product, sales and marketing efforts to better 
align with evolving advertiser requirements. This resulted in the 
launch of its new brand advertising trade entity RhythmOne, 
which extends the promise of cross-screen advertising across  
a significant and growing base of quality supply, at scale.
The Company continued to display good operating discipline 
and positive metrics around business stabilization, demon-
strated by cash preservation and a clear inflection point in the 
performance of its desktop business. The Company’s perfor-
mance is evidence of the significant strides the team has made 
in reconstituting the business and positioning it for growth.  
I believe our future prospects look bright, based on the 
Company’s breadth of integrated capabilities and sheer scale  
as a Supply Side player. I also want to commend the entire 
management team for the deliberate manner in which it has 
added strategic capabilities and refactored the Company’s 
revenue base, all while demonstrating acute financial discipline.
Over the course of the year the Board has also taken steps 
to bolster its governance and independence efforts. We have 
added another highly qualified independent Non-Executive 
Board member, with significant finance, strategy and 
governance expertise. We are delighted to welcome Raj 
Chellaraj to the Board, pending the ratification of his  
appointment by shareholders.
I would further like to thank our institutional and private 
shareholders, as well as our customers, employees and 
partners, for their continued support of blinkx. The Board is 
encouraged by the performance of both the Company and the 
management team in a year of transformation, and is confident 
about blinkx’s future and prospects. I wish the Company and its 
shareholders every success in the future.
Anthony Bettencourt
Chairman of the Board of Directors
blinkx plc
18 June 2015
I BELIEVE OUR  
FUTURE PROSPECTS 
LOOK BRIGHT, BASED 
ON THE COMPANY’S 
BREADTH OF INTEGRATED 
CAPABILITIES AND SHEER 
SCALE AS A SUPPLY  
SIDE PLAYER. IN ANTICIPATION OF THESE PARADIGM 
SHIFTS, BLINKX HAS TAKEN DELIBERATE, 
PRE-EMPTIVE ACTION TO STABILIZE ITS 
CORE BUSINESS AND ENSURE THAT IT WILL 
CONTINUE TO RISE WITH THE VIDEO,  
MOBILE AND PROGRAMMATIC TIDES.
