 03
Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 / Strategic Report
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that Booker 
Group plc has delivered another good 
performance. In the 52 weeks to 27 
March 2015 sales rose by 1.5% to 
£4.8bn and operating profit (before 
exceptional items) of £140.3m was up 
17%. Customer satisfaction continued 
to improve, once again achieving best 
ever scores. The financial performance 
was good and the Group ended the 
financial year with net cash of £147.0m. 
The drive into the catering market is 
working, with Booker like-for-like total 
sales to caterers (excluding Makro) up 
by 2.0%. Booker like-for-like total sales 
to retailers (excluding Makro) increased 
by 2.7%. 
The plans to ‘Broaden’ the business 
are going well. In the 52 weeks to 27 
March 2015 Booker distributed £1.4bn 
of product to our customers’ premises 
versus £1.3bn last year as we continue 
to expand our delivered service. Booker 
Direct, Chef Direct, Classic and Ritter-
Courivaud, our specialist delivered 
businesses, remain on track. Internet 
sales were £874m compared to £777m 
in the previous year and sales at Booker 
India are making good progress. 
Makro has made a good contribution 
to the Group. We now have everybody 
operating on common systems 
and have eleven combined Makro / 
Booker business centres which are 
performing well.
I should like to thank all our colleagues 
for their contribution to the success of 
the Group in the year just ended.
Basic earnings per share were 6.73 
pence, up from 6.06 pence last 
year. Given the strong operational 
performance and cash flow of the 
business the Board recommends the 
payment of a final dividend of 3.14 
pence per share (2014: 2.75 pence per 
share) which, together with the interim 
dividend, makes a total dividend for the 
year of 3.66 pence per share (2014: 3.20 
pence per share). The final dividend is 
payable on 10 July 2015 to shareholders 
on the register on 12 June 2015.
In addition to the final dividend, the 
Board is recommending a special 
capital return to shareholders of 3.50 
pence per ordinary share (at a cost 
of approximately £62m, based on the 
current issued share capital of the 
Company). This follows the capital 
return of 3.50 pence per share to 
shareholders in July 2014. We currently 
anticipate returning a similar amount to 
shareholders in July 2016.
Having been Chairman of Blueheath 
Plc, which merged with Booker in 2007, 
and then Chairman of the combined 
Group, I have been in the Chair for nine 
years. During this time there has been 
considerable progress by the Group. 
Given the strength of the Group, I feel it is 
a good time to move on. I will step down 
at the AGM in keeping with corporate 
governance best practice, and I wish the 
Company the best for the years ahead.
The process to identify my successor 
is well underway and an update will 
be provided.
Outlook
The Group’s trading in the first seven 
weeks of the current financial year 
is ahead of last year. However, we 
anticipate that the challenging consumer 
and market environment will persist 
through the coming year and the UK’s 
food market remains very competitive.
Whilst there is increasing price 
competition in the UK grocery and 
discount sectors, we will continue to 
deliver our plans to offer our customers 
even better choice, prices and service 
supported by the continued delivery 
of our efficiency programmes. We 
are on track to deliver an outcome 
for the new financial year in line with 
our plans and to make progress in this 
challenging environment. 
Annual General Meeting
Our Annual General Meeting will be held 
on 8 July 2015. The notice of Annual 
General Meeting and a circular setting 
out further details of the proposed 
return of capital, which itself requires 
shareholder approval, will be issued to 
shareholders in due course.
Richard Rose
Chairman
Booker Group plc has delivered  
another good performance
