 7
Subhransu (“Brian”) Mukherjee
Chief Executive Officer
Dear Shareholder:
Financial Year 2015 was a transformational year for our  
Company. We reconstituted our desktop video business and 
made significant strides to reposition the Company to compete 
and grow. During the year, blinkx continued to execute against 
its strategy to re-direct the Company’s capabilities toward 
the high-growth mobile, video and Programmatic advertising 
segments of the industry. In a sector characterized by rapid 
change, we made pivotal moves to stabilize and strengthen 
our core revenue streams while positioning the Company in 
the emerging high-growth areas of the industry. Our vision 
remains to connect Audiences and Brands through premium 
digital Content across Devices. This enables the Company to 
facilitate the fair value exchange between the Consumer’s 
engagement with the Advertiser’s message through useful 
digital content.
We made progress toward this vision during the year, despite 
the ongoing structural changes within the industry. During the 
year, the Company took deliberate actions to simplify its prop-
osition to advertisers and partners. Specifically, we launched 
the integration of our teams, capabilities, products, technology 
and systems under a single brand. A beacon of simplification 
and completeness, we fully aligned our brand advertising assets 
under a single trade entity, RhythmOne (1R). The 1R brand 
unification is designed to deliver on the promise of brand-safe, 
quality, cross-screen advertising at scale, across a consolidated 
supply footprint. This covers the Company’s comprehensive 
range of formats and devices, including desktop and mobile 
video, rich media, display, social and native. Through a single 
entry point, advertisers are now able to reach target audiences 
efficiently to achieve measurable ROI at their desired spend level. 
1R combines our aggregate supply footprint and enables us to 
follow audiences across devices using the most appropriate 
formats to achieve an advertiser’s KPI, while being transparent 
about attribution and optimization of the entire campaign.
blinkx also initiated a reorganization plan to better align its 
sales teams around the unified selling proposition. The reorga-
nization also brings together systems and operations functions, 
ensuring they fully support integrated, cross-device selling and 
provide convenient access to consolidated metrics for advertis-
ers, publishers and content partners alike.
blinkx extended its suite of offerings with new audience-target-
ing solutions that enable the Company to target audience  
segments and users within its supply base as they consume 
media across devices. These capabilities support the Company’s 
audience-centric value proposition and help us to break down 
traditional format – or channel-centric silos in how online ad-
vertising is bought and sold – shifting the conversation instead 
to the advertiser’s target audience and campaign KPI.
blinkx also undertook highly selective strategic acquisitions 
to extend its quality supply footprint and complete its unified 
Programmatic stack. The integration of these key acquisitions 
with the Company’s existing platforms and operations will be 
the primary operational focus of the coming year. The acquisi-
tions of L YFE Mobile and AdKarma earlier in the financial year 
were instrumental in bolstering the Company’s Programmatic 
capabilities across both video and mobile formats, which helped 
reconstitute the Company’s desktop video business and posi-
tion the enterprise for future mobile growth. These acquisitions 
provide integral components of blinkx’s unified Programmatic 
stack that is able to deliver on the promise of brand-safe, cross-
screen advertising at scale.
The technology licensing agreement with Zenovia Digital 
Exchange brings to blinkx industry-leading technology to filter 
and segment traffic, and enhance brand safety. The ability to 
prevent fraud before it occurs, rather than just measure fraud 
after it occurs, is a radically different approach to operating a 
Programmatic marketplace. By combining blinkx’s contextual 
targeting and user-filtering techniques with Zenovia’s pre-bid 
filtering and screening technology, the Company will be able to 
pre-qualify, categorize and enrich the inventory made available 
to advertisers through our Programmatic channels, and take a 
definitive stance on inventory quality.
The most recent acquisition of All Media Network, LLC (All 
Media) represents an important and unique step forward in 
the Company’s strategy to build a complete digital advertising 
platform for brand-safe, cross-screen advertising at scale. 
Through All Media, blinkx gains access to a number of premium 
consumer properties, including Sidereel.com, Allmusic.com, 
Allmovie.com and Celebified.com – collectively representing 
over 25 million unique users per month. Owning and operating a 
sizeable, high-quality audience enhances the Company’s ability 
to continuously test, filter and score its aggregate supply to 
enhance traffic quality and performance.
The digital advertising sector continues to evolve rapidly – with 
video leading the pack in terms of growth. Spend continues 
to shift from offline to online channels as advertisers follow 
consumers online. Mobile spend is expected to exceed desktop 
spend for the first time this year – a trend that is due to contin-
ue as advertisers seek to connect with audiences whenever and 
wherever they consume media. Programmatic trading has be-
come firmly established as the dominant buying method, result-
ing in  significant M&A activity as traditional media companies 
race to acquire or augment their automated trading capabil-
ities. Finally, new tools are making it easier for advertisers to 
assess inventory quality and for supply partners to definitively 
represent a brand-safe advertising environment.
In anticipation of these paradigm shifts, blinkx has taken 
deliberate, pre-emptive action to stabilize its core business and 
ensure that it will continue to rise with the video, mobile and 
Programmatic tides. Through organic investments and acquisi-
tions, we are fully aligned with emerging trends and opportu-
nities, and operate a complete and integrated Programmatic 
digital advertising and content distribution stack. Our teams 
are empowered to go to market with a differentiated offer that 
spans both media and marketplace, and truly deliver on the 
promise of audience-centric, cross-screen advertising at scale.
During the year, we also made several key executive hires in 
product, sales, technology and marketing who will play critical 
roles in driving our future growth. In an effort to enhance our 
governance profile, we also strengthened our Board of Direc-
tors with the appointment of a lead Non-Executive Director,  
Raj Chellaraj, who brings over thirty years of finance, strategy 
and governance expertise in both the private and public sectors. 
In closing, we exit a transformational year poised for future 
competitiveness and growth. We remain optimistic about the 
fundamentals of the online advertising industry and believe  
we have the assets, technology, team, and a culture of innova-
tion and agility to compete and succeed. Our financial metrics 
demonstrate strong financial, operational and acquisition  
discipline. We remain focused on profitability which, along  
with a robust balance sheet, affords us the opportunity to  
drive truly catalytic growth. Our customers, competitors and 
shareholders inspire us to redouble our efforts to compete  
and succeed, and a smart, capable, energized team is ready  
to take on the challenge.
Let me also take this opportunity to express my sincere grati-
tude to you, our shareholders, for your ongoing support during 
a transformational year. As we navigate this dynamic terrain, 
we remain steadfast in our vision to connect Audiences and 
Brands through professional Content across Devices, and are 
bullish about our prospects and the industry going into the next 
financial year and beyond.
Subhransu (“Brian”) Mukherjee
Chief Executive Officer
blinkx plc
18 June 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
THE CEO’S REPORT
