 Chief Executive’s Statement
SYSTEM1 – FEEL MORE: BUY MORE.
Under the surface of a low growth year, 2015 was significant for BrainJuicer and the research industry in general. 
There is a major system change afoot in the industry based on the adoption of Behavioural Science. This is a 
change BrainJuicer has helped to pioneer for many years and we aim to be a major beneficiary of the switch-over 
in the coming years. 
Behavioural Science is showing us how people really make decisions and it’s more emotional and irrational 
than classic marketing theory. Instead of a left-brain, right brain model that assumes great marketing is equal 
parts emotional and rational, we now know our million year old System1, emotional, intuitive brain holds sway 
over our 100,000 year old System2, rational, analytical brain. In fact if you measured them in computing terms, 
the instinctive, fast-thinking System1 would be a startling 11 million bits of processing power whereas the 
cognitive, slow-thinking System2 would be just 50 bits of power. The fact we can use System2 is an evolutionary 
miracle. But we mustn’t let ourselves be fooled into thinking we use it very much.
System1 explains why we love adverts like the Cadbury Gorilla, why we say one thing yet do another, why 
we’re a sucker for certain types of story, why politicians win elections on personality not policy and why white 
headphones, not product specification, sold the iPod. The era of persuasion-marketing is giving way to the era of 
seduction-marketing i.e. feel more, buy more. 
In quantitative research terms, this means a switch from predominantly System2 techniques that have held 
sway for decades, measuring people’s rationalisations, to System1 techniques measuring people’s emotions and 
instincts and which predict famous, 5-Star marketing, in a way System2 research never did.
BrainJuicer has been at the forefront of creating these System1 research techniques. The industry has recog-
nised our pioneering role by voting us ‘Most Innovative Research Agency’ globally for the last four years in a row. 
But most telling of all, our ‘Juicy’ System1 research methods have played a major role in creating and predicting 
famous marketing; John Lewis Christmas adverts, Guinness Wheelchair Basketball and 3 Mobile’s Moonwalking 
Pony adverts. Just visit www.feelmore50.com to see the best adverts in the world and the sort of famous, 5-Star 
marketing we promote and predict.
We are working with many of the world’s biggest buyers of market research, who are increasingly coming 
around to the business benefits of switching from System2 to System1 methods. BrainJuicer doesn’t always win 
that switch-over but as one of the originators and leading providers of System1 methods, we are one of the go-to 
firms for clients. Our challenge is to ensure we have the talent, techniques and tenacity to win the confidence 
and business of these huge companies and become a major player in the industry.
To this end we have been actively shaping the business to enhance our position as one of the leading providers 
of System1 approaches. 
In 2015 we launched a pioneering, System1 approach to Brand Tracking. Tracking often accounts for over half 
of all client spend on research. Our approach measures the Fame, Feeling and Fluency of a brand and its competi-
tors and is able to predict the likely future fortunes of a brand. We have won a number of significant clients for 
our brand tracking business which grew from 4% in 2014 to 6% of the business in 2015 (in gross profit terms) and 
which we expect to show continued healthy growth in 2016 and beyond. Creating a quantitative tracking product 
was a deliberate move away from the qualitative Juice Generation part of our business which won plaudits from 
clients but is less scalable. 
To clarify and emphasise our System1 positioning in the market, we have renamed all of our ‘Juicy’ products: 
System1 Ad Testing / System1 Brand Tracking / System1 Concept Testing / System1 Pack Testing. Only Predictive 
Markets (our wisdom of the crowds approach to concept screening) keeps its original name as it is already per-
ceived by clients to be a System1 approach.
Given what you measure is what you tend to improve, five years ago we decided to report the proportion of our 
business that was ‘Juicy’ (System1) and ‘Twist’ (System2). It was 58:42 (Juicy:Twist) at the time. We wanted to 
drive the Juicy, System1 side of the business as it is higher margin, more likely to win ongoing business with cli-
ents, and more resistant to increasing price competition in the market. It has proved a successful strategy. Juicy 
(quantitative) products have shown 21% compound annual growth over the last five years (in gross profit terms), 
growing 12% in 2015 whilst Twist continued to decline. 85% of our business is now Juicy, so the drag effect of 
Twist should now be modest. The shift to Juicy has also enabled us to largely avoid the price war on Twist prod-
ucts that continues among the large traditional research firms. 
BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3 BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
In 2016 we will stop reporting Juicy and Twist and start focussing on increasing the proportion of business 
which is ‘Ongoing’ (sole supplier and regular usage) as opposed to ‘Ad Hoc’ (one-off projects). The exclusive and 
regular nature of Ongoing business makes it higher margin, more predictable and easier to win additional work 
from the same client. We believe the more Ongoing business we can win, the faster our top line and profitabil-
ity will grow. Ongoing includes most of our System1 Tracking and a good proportion of our System1 Ad Testing. 
In 2014 these two products represented just 22% of the business (in gross profit terms). In 2015 they grew 26% 
and now account for 27% of gross profit. We expect further healthy growth of these products and other Ongoing 
projects in 2016 and beyond.
To extend BrainJuicer’s availability in the market and enhance our reputation as a leading provider of 
System1 services, 2016 will see a number of initiatives:
  We are launching a separate creative agency, System1 – Feel more: Buy More. The agency will only do System1 
work. It avoids the costs and limitations of a fixed creative department by sourcing work through a hand-
picked network of renowned creatives and creative boutiques. We will guarantee the effectiveness of its 
creative work by pre-testing all ideas through the BrainJuicer System1 Ad Testing and only ever present-
ing 3/4/5-Star work (i.e. the top third of all ads in the world and proven to drive profitable brand growth in 
increasing proportion to its star rating). Go to www.system1agency.com for more details. 
  We are making some of our System1 research methods available in a stripped-down, high-margin, self-serve 
format through Zappistore. Starting with System1 Ad Testing Express, and FaceTrace®, we’re keen to extend 
our availability and client base with the much larger number of small and mid-size companies and creative 
agencies who can’t afford our full-service approach. Go to www.zappistore.com for more details.
  We have just published a short booklet summarising the whole of Behavioural Science into the five drivers of 
profitable brand growth, ‘The Five Things Every Modern Marketer Knows About Famous, 5-Star Marketing’:
1. We think much less than we think we think
2. Those who tell the best stories rule the world
3. Your buyers mostly buy other brands & occasionally buy you
4. Focus on new buyers because loyalty comes for free
5. Fame, Feeling & Fluency Drive Famous 5-Star Marketing
We are lucky enough to attract some of the brightest individuals to work at BrainJuicer and work hard to cre-
ate a challenging, Juicy and rewarding culture for staff to work in. Our Graduate Recruitment scheme is entering 
its third year and is proving an excellent way to ensure we have the talent the business needs to grow. 
It’s an exciting time to work in market research, when challenges are coming from multiple directions and 
the industry is undergoing a system change. There is the rise of self-serve research and big data, the growing 
collection of passive data, the use of social media for insight, a surge of interest in neuroscience, and the rapid 
adoption of behavioural economics and psychology. New competitors from analytics and tech companies are 
expanding and changing the research marketplace. And better, more empirical studies of marketing effective-
ness from bodies like the IPA and the Ehrenberg-Bass Institute offer a compelling, data-driven critique of exist-
ing research practice. 
The industry was born exactly a hundred years ago when the first opinion poll correctly predicted Woodrow 
Wilson would win the 1916 US Presidential election. Since then have been many changes but a hundred years on, 
100 polls using “(g)old standard” System2 techniques failed to predict the Conservatives’ majority in the UK 2015 
election. These approaches are being challenged by Behavioural Science and BrainJuicer is one of the leading 
advocates showing how System1 techniques are far better at predicting famous marketing that generates profit-
able brand growth. 
We believe the market research industry will change more in the next 10 years than it has in the last 100 and 
BrainJuicer is extremely well positioned to benefit from a major system change.
System1 – Feel more: Buy more.
JOHN KEARON
Chief Juicer
18 March 2016
 
4
