 BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s Statement
2015 saw BrainJuicer making good progress on a number of fronts during what was in some 
respects a year of transition. We ended the year strongly, and with a clear vision of how we intend to develop the 
business over the coming years.
Revenue growth over the year was modest – sales rose by only 2% to £25.18m, and gross profit (our main top-
line performance indicator) by 4%. Growth in our three main quantitative products and services was, however, 
much stronger than this – at 17% in gross profit terms, and we are determined to generate more robust overall top 
line growth in the coming years. 
After a lower bonus pool than in 2014 and a modest charge for share-based payments, pre-tax profits were 
5% ahead of the prior year at £4.50m. Adjusted pre-tax profits, after adding back one-off charges of £0.32m and 
share-based payments of £0.20m, were £5.02m. Fully diluted earnings per share were 7% higher at 22.7p.
BrainJuicer is a strongly cash generative business, and this highly attractive characteristic was again a 
feature last year. We ended 2015 with a cash balance of £6.37m, equivalent to 48 pence per share, compared to 
£5.35m in 2014. BrainJuicer has no debt.
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 3.5p per share, an increase of 6% over the comparable 2014 
payment. This would take the total dividend payment for the year to 4.5p, an increase of 5%.
John Kearon, our Chief Executive or “Chief Juicer”, and James Geddes, our Chief Financial Officer, will as 
usual review BrainJuicer’s performance in 2015 in the sections which follow this Chairman’s Statement. From my 
perspective, and while readily acknowledging that there are areas in which we can and must improve, there was 
much to be encouraged about. 
The continued decline in sales of lower margin, less scalable, qualitative products largely masked the impres-
sive growth in sales of those core quantitative products which we expect to drive our business forward over the 
coming years. Revenue from the qualitative products was only 8% of total revenue in 2015, and so the impact of 
any further decline will be less marked in 2016. Our business in the US had another excellent year, increasing 
revenue by 21% and operating profit by 19%. This continued success in what is the world’s largest and most com-
petitive market for market research bodes well for the prospects for BrainJuicer as a whole.
Although we did not complete any acquisitions, and incurred some modest costs relating to a potential deal 
from which we withdrew on valuation grounds, we learned a lot about the types of business which might add 
value to BrainJuicer. Modest acquisition activity remains a possibility, but equally we are very excited about 
the scope to grow our business organically, using our behavioural science based methodology. The launch of our 
creative agency, System1 is the most high profile of our current initiatives, but by no means the only one.
Structurally, BrainJuicer seems well placed to regain growth momentum. The heads of the Americas and UK 
and Continental regions have settled well into their relatively new roles. Alex Batchelor, our Chief Operating 
Officer, has been charged with driving all of our established businesses, freeing up John Kearon to focus more on 
System1 and other new ventures.
BrainJuicer habitually, and with good reason, draws attention in its trading statements to its “limited visibil-
ity” with regard to even near term trading prospects. This is particularly true during the traditionally very busy 
final 4-6 weeks of the calendar year, which are also the final weeks of BrainJuicer’s financial year. The Board has 
therefore decided that it makes good sense to change BrainJuicer’s financial year-end from December to March.
The current financial period will therefore cover 15 months to March 2017. BrainJuicer will publish unaudited 
financial results for the six months to June 2016 and also for the 12 months to December 2016, and then final 
results for the 15 months to 31 March 2017.
Finally, I would as ever like to express my thanks to all of our employees around the world for their hard work 
and dedication, and to wish them success in what should be an exciting year for BrainJuicer.
KEN FORD
Chairman
18 March 2016
2
