 Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8
Despite the challenges facing the 
industry today, we remain optimistic 
that our project will find the funding 
necessary to move it forward.
With Howard Obee and Peter Fleming
Our aim for 2015 had been to secure funding 
for the next phase of operations in the Falkland 
Islands, but the continued low oil price and the 
industry’s significant reduction in capital 
expenditure meant that we were unable to 
achieve all our goals.
The industry downturn caused us to move 
quickly to reduce expenditure in order to 
preserve funds, but we ensured that our 
sub-surface work continued to move forward. 
Good progress has been made on that front. 
During the year we reported on a resource 
upgrade for the Darwin discovery and 
described near -field prospects along with their 
resource estimates. We also revised our basin 
geological models, incorporating new findings 
including the well results from other operator’s 
drilling programmes. These regional geological 
studies reinforce our belief that our acreage 
sits in the right part of the South Falkland Basin, 
in an area where we can demonstrate high 
quality reservoirs, mature source rocks that 
have generated both oil and gas and a variety 
of trapping configurations. Our efforts to 
continually enhance our prospect and regional 
interpretations are driven by a need to 
minimise sub-surface risks ahead of the 
next exploration/appraisal campaign.
Current sub-surface work is focused on a field 
development study, remodelling and 
reassessing the reservoir performance in light 
of new mapping. We are considering several 
development possibilities using different 
numbers of production and gas re-injection 
wells, looking to determine the optimum 
commercial solution.
Once completed, this work will feed into a fresh 
look at facilities design, building on an earlier 
screening feasibility study. The objective is to 
assess different alternatives for bringing the 
discovery into production quickly and cost 
effectively. The low oil price environment has 
seen a reduction in many service company 
costs. We need to reassess our project 
economics in light of current cost estimates. 
Previous project economics for a Darwin 
development have suggested that it would be 
competitive against many other global 
opportunities, sitting relatively low on the 
global cost curve, due to the attractive fiscal 
terms and a low well count (a function of the 
high quality reservoir).
Our hope is that this new work will increase the 
commercial attractiveness of the project, 
which can only help our farm-out objectives. 
The industry as a whole continues to be on a 
run of disappointing exploration results, 
particularly for liquids. In this context, the 
South Falkland Basin represents an appealing 
place to explore. From our perspective, the 
Darwin discovery and our licensed acreage has 
many attractions. We can point to our 
assessment of a large volume of recoverable 
condensate, a high quality reservoir and a 
potentially straight forward FPSO 
development that is commercially attractive 
and able to withstand relatively low oil prices. 
Additionally, we have upside potential within 
near -field prospects.
CEO’s Statement
