 Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4
Industry setting
The industry downturn, triggered by the 
decline in the oil price, has had a significant 
impact on the Company’s fortunes. Brent has 
fallen from around $110 per barrel in mid 2014, 
to around $35 per barrel at the end of 2015. 
This sustained low oil price has caused 
companies to make dramatic reductions in 
their expenditure, delay major capital projects 
and reduce or stop taking on new 
opportunities. This has made it a particularly 
challenging environment for us in which to 
conduct a farm-out. There are as many views 
on future oil price trends as there are analysts 
and commentators, with little consensus at 
the moment. Most believe a recovery will 
occur, but to what level and exactly when, there 
is no agreement. Consequently, companies 
are trying to re-base their operations to 
weather a low cost, low oil price world. 
Financial position
Borders & Southern’s financial status is 
relatively robust in the current environment, 
with a strong balance sheet and no debt. We 
ended the year with a cash balance of $14.0 
million, compared to $16.1 million at the end of 
2014. Like most companies in our sector, we 
have reduced our expenditure. The 2015 
administrative expense was $1.97 million 
compared to $3.04 million in the previous year. 
This reduced expenditure has not impacted 
our ability to progress technical work and 
advance our understanding of our assets. We 
intend to maintain this capital discipline 
throughout 2016 and beyond.
Project status
The industry recession has delayed the timing 
of the next operations phase on our 
Production Licences. We had hoped to have 
secured partners and funding for a new 
exploration and appraisal drilling programme 
by now, but have had to reset our expectations. 
So whilst the current Production Licence 
period extends through to the end of October 
2017 , we have applied to the Falkland Islands 
Government for an extension.
From a sub-surface point of view we have 
continued to make good progress. Earlier in 
2015, we announced an upgrade in the 
combined Darwin East and West recoverable 
resource estimate (Best estimate P50: 360 
million barrels of condensate) and described 
some of the surrounding prospects in more 
detail. We continue to work the Early 
Cretaceous shallow marine sandstone play 
fairway in detail, re-mapping the discovery and 
analysing the seismic response on near -field 
prospects with the aim of developing reliable 
predictive models for hydrocarbon presence 
and phase.
Additionally, we have spent time re-assessing 
our basin models, incorporating the results 
from recent drilling activity by other operators. 
The Humpback well was located over 250km 
northeast of Darwin and its findings have no 
impact on the prospectivity of our licences. 
In fact, our recent regional basin analysis has 
re-enforced our belief that our licences are 
optimally located in the South Falkland Basin.
Current technical work is aimed at re-assessing 
how a Darwin development would fit into a low 
oil price world. We know that the combination 
of competitive fiscal terms in the Falkland 
Islands and excellent reservoir characteristics 
of the Early Cretaceous shallow marine 
sandstone makes a development competitive 
on the cost curve against other deep water 
developments. However, we need to assess 
just how commercial a project would be in a 
period of sustained low oil prices. Previously we 
had considered 2 to 3 appraisal wells and 10 
development wells (6 producers, 4 gas 
re-injectors) with sub-sea tie back to an FPSO. 
New reservoir engineering studies are looking 
at reduced well count models. Outputs from 
this work will feed into a fresh look at facilities 
engineering concepts and costs and, in turn, a 
new economic evaluation. If we can clearly 
demonstrate the commercial viability of a 
development in a low oil price environment, it 
should assist the farm-out process. 
Outlook
All our technical and commercial work to date 
suggests that Darwin is a robust project, even 
in a low oil price environment. The principal risk 
for the Company over the next 12 months is 
that a sustained low oil price will cause further 
delay to our farm-out and hence funding for 
the next phase of operations. We have 
positioned the Company so that our strong 
balance sheet will allow us to withstand an 
extended period of reduced industry activity. 
As we move forward, we will continue to 
control costs, undertake good science and 
maintain our resolve to monetise the Darwin 
discovery.
Finally, Stephen Posford, 69, one of the 
Company’s founders and a member of the 
Board since the Company’s inception, has 
announced that he intends to retire from 
business activities and will step down from the 
Board prior to the AGM. Stephen has played an 
influential role in the development of the 
Company, which included the significant gas 
condensate discovery in 2012. On behalf of all 
the Directors I would like to thank Stephen for 
his contribution and wish him a healthy, happy 
and long retirement.
Chairman’s Statement
All our technical and commercial work 
to date suggests that Darwin is a 
robust project, even in a low oil price 
environment. The principal risk for the 
Company over the next 12 months is 
that a sustained low oil price will cause 
further project delay.
Harry Dobson, Chairman
