 “ We have had a very good year , 
executing our growth strategy and 
building the organisational capability  
and capacity to deliver sustainable, 
profitable growth.”
Garry Watts
Chairman
I am delighted to say the business has performed very well in 
201 4/1 5. We have achieved a number of key milestones over 
the year and we are well positioned for sustainable growth.
Strong revenue growth has enabled us to make investments  
to expand our commercial footprint, develop our pipeline  
of innovative products and build a portfolio of innovative and 
patient-centric products.
Within Interventional Medicine, a new, dedicated US sales 
force commenced selling Varithena
®
, our novel varicose veins 
treatment, in August 201 4. We expanded our European sales 
force for TheraSphere
®
, the radiation therapy for liver cancer, 
from three to 25 people and subsequently started selling 
DC Bead
®
 for the treatment of liver tumours, through the same 
sales force in April 201 5. DC Bead
®
 was approved in China,  
and we started selling the product directly in T aiwan.
In January 201 5 we completed the acquisition of 
PneumRx, Inc. which makes the RePneu
®
 Coil system, 
a minimally invasive treatment for advanced emphysema. 
PneumRx offers an exciting growth opportunity and expands 
our expertise into Interventional Pulmonology, an emerging 
medical discipline. Currently available in Europe, this product 
also has significant potential in the US through a fully 
recruited pivotal clinical trial that could lead to marketing 
approval in late 2016.
We also invested in our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business 
to maintain our leadership position in rescue therapies. 
In October 201 4 we settled our patent action against parties 
we believed were infringing our patent on the US snakebite 
treatment CroFab
®
, removing uncertainty for our investors 
and allowing us to concentrate on continuing to deliver this 
first-class treatment to our customers and their patients.
Further details of operating progress during the year are 
provided throughout the strategic review and the 
performance against our corporate objectives is described 
on pages 16 to 1 9.
BT G has reported another strong financial 
performance and is well positioned to deliver 
sustainable returns through investment in  
multiple growth drivers. 
04
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Chairman’ s statement Governance
Achieving high standards of governance is fundamental 
to the successful growth of our business. During the year, 
we acquired PneumRx and have rapidly incorporated that 
business into our governance framework. We have also 
paid particular attention to the geographic expansion 
of the business, to ensure uniform standards apply 
wherever we operate.
The governance performance of the Board was evaluated 
by independent consultants during the year. We have made 
good progress in areas we identified for improvement at the 
time of the last evaluation three years ago, and we have new 
areas to focus on. Further details can be found in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 37 to 78.
Oversight of our risk management processes remains 
a priority. We provide an update on our approach and the 
key areas of focus in the Risk Report on pages 33 to 36.
Strong leadership and  
dedicated employees
Our company has changed significantly over recent 
years as we have grown organically and through acquisition. 
The successful transformation of our business to date is 
a result of the hard work, enthusiasm and dedication of our 
employees. My thanks go to them and to our shareholders, 
who have continued to support the business through a period 
of investment and growth.
I would also like to thank my Board colleagues and the 
Leadership T eam for their guidance and oversight of the 
business, in particular Melanie Lee who has expanded her 
involvement with the Company as its first Chief Scientific 
Officer and as a consequence has retired from the Board 
after four years of service. Dr Susan Foden joined the Board 
in March 201 5. Susan has an excellent track record in the 
field of Biotech and Healthcare and her extensive industry 
experience will be a great asset to BTG.
Outlook
The healthcare industry is competitive. Our strategy for 
success is to find specialist areas where we can become 
a commercial and technological leader by delivering 
clinically proven, differentiated treatment options to 
specialist physicians and underserved patient populations. 
This approach has led us to become a leading provider of 
rescue medicines and it is now enabling us to become a 
leader in Interventional Medicine, where favourable macro 
trends and our investment strategy support the growth of 
our portfolio of innovative and patient-centric products.
This is an exciting time for BTG. As we implement our organic 
growth plans in Interventional Medicine, we are continuing 
to seek new opportunities that complement our existing 
platforms and capabilities to ensure the sustainable, 
profitable growth of our business.
Garry Watts
Chairman
BTG share price performance vs FTSE 250 index in pence
700
400
100
BTG
Mar-09 Mar-15 Mar-14 Mar-13 Mar-12 Mar-11
Source: Thomson Reuters
Mar-10
FTSE 250 Index
 
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in BTG plc on 31 March 2009 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date. The other 
points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
05
Strategic 
Report
