 “ We have built our company to  
have the characteristics for success 
in today’ s healthcare environment, 
creating a scalable platform that  
will enable us to continue to grow  
over the long term.”
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
A leader in Interventional Medicine
Following recent acquisitions, the commercial launch of 
Varithena
®
 and the growth of our Interventional Oncology 
products, BTG is a leading company in the fast growing world 
of Interventional Medicine. During the year we added to our 
portfolio with the acquisition of PneumRx and its RePneu
®
 
Coil system, a leading interventional product in the treatment 
of advanced emphysema. This acquisition gave us a third  
area to our Interventional Medicine business: Interventional 
Pulmonology , a growing medical discipline. 
We now have the platform to deliver our goal of organic  
growth in the Interventional Medicine business from revenue 
of approximately $200m today to over $ 1.25bn by 2021. This 
will be achieved through continued geographic expansion, 
product innovation and indication expansion. See pages 8 to 
1 3 for more details.
Delivering this growth target requires a commitment to 
investment in product innovation and development, in 
expanding our commercial footprint and in our people. 
As we have grown we have created a company culture that will 
enable us to capitalise on the opportunities offered by today’s 
healthcare environment. Alongside our financial resources, 
this gives us a scalable platform for sustainable value creation.
Underpinning our financial investments are the highly cash 
generative Specialty Pharmaceutical and Licensing segments. 
In the former we guide to mid single-digit revenue growth and 
the latter , which is no longer an active strategy , continues to 
provide a solid financial underpin to the business.
Creating value through acquisitions
BTG has a strong track record of expansion through 
acquisitions. We have clear criteria when considering 
our opportunities. In addition to being able to generate 
an appropriate return on investment for our shareholders, 
we look for opportunities that bring us new capabilities 
and expertise, and that provide a platform for further growth. 
In January 201 5 we completed the acquisition of PneumRx 
for an initial cash consideration of $23 1 m. PneumRx owns, 
manufactures and distributes the RePneu
®
 Coil System. 
This complements our Interventional Medicine business by 
expanding into an exciting and fast-growing area of medicine 
that uses a minimally invasive product, backed by clinical 
data, and which provides access to a specialty physician base.
See pages 1 4 and 1 5 for more details.
Through organic growth and acquisitions,  
BT G is delivering on its strategy to become 
a world leader in Interventional Medicine. 
Key events and achievements in 201 4/1 5
1 .   E k o So n i c
®
 receives FDA clearance to treat 
pulmonary embolism, May 20 1 4
2.   First commercial patient treated with 
Varithena
®
, August 20 1 4
3.   DC Bead
®
 approved in China for the  
treatment of hypervascularised tumours, 
August 20 14
4.  Acquisition of PneumRx, January 20 1 5
06
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Chief Executive Officer’ s review Patient-centric treatment options
During the year we initiated our controlled US launch  
of Varithena
®
, the first and only FDA approved microfoam  
for the treatment of great saphenous vein (GSV) system 
incompetence. The first commercial patients were treated  
in August 201 4 and feedback from both patients and 
physicians has been very encouraging. More than 420 
physicians are progressing through qualification, with over 
21 5 having treated patients or in the process of scheduling 
patients for treatment. We are increasing our sales force as 
we expand physician outreach.
As a new product and procedure operating with interim 
reimbursement codes, with permanent codes not anticipated 
until approximately two years post-launch, we are providing 
support to help ensure the appropriate level of reimbursement 
for each procedure. T o date, payers who insure approximately 
50 million Americans (of 320 million people with insurance 
coverage) have established favourable insurance coverage 
policies and have paid claims at the appropriate rates for both 
the product and the procedure.
Our controlled launch strategy is designed to ‘build the 
system’ to demonstrate the product’s clinical profile 
and patient acceptability, and to establish a smooth 
reimbursement process. This lays the foundations for us to 
target a $500m+ global Varithena
®
 franchise, which will result 
from expanding access to additional clinics, gaining dedicated 
reimbursement codes, developing the self-pay market and 
progressing indication and geographic expansion plans. 
In May 201 5, BTG purchased the residual financial interest of 
the originator of the Varithena
®
 foam sclerotherapy technology 
for a one-off cash payment of £23m, ensuring that BTG retains 
100% of the future value of Varithena
®
.
Sales of our EkoSonic
®
 blood clot treatment device continue 
to grow strongly, driven largely by a greater awareness of 
the potential benefits of interventional treatment over the 
standard anticoagulation therapy. The 510(k) clearance 
received in May 201 4 to treat patients with pulmonary 
embolism makes this the only device on the market with 
such a label, giving us a competitive advantage. 
Since combining the Beads and TheraSphere
®
 sales forces in 
the US, we now have an established Interventional Oncology 
franchise that is uniquely positioned to offer the two main 
intravascular locoregional treatment modalities for primary 
liver cancer. Subsequently, we have expanded our direct sales 
force in the EU for TheraSphere
®
 which, from April 201 5, has 
also sold our Bead products and again gives us the distinctive 
opportunity to adopt a patient-centric approach.
Future growth
Expanding the global reach of our products is fundamental 
to our organic growth plans. In addition to our European 
expansion, we are building our commercial offering in Asia. 
We gained approval for DC Bead
®
 in China, where our partner 
SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is now preparing for market 
launch. In T aiwan we established a direct sales force and 
opened an office in Hong Kong to provide support in 
commercial, medical and regulatory affairs for the region.
For Varithena
®
, we are exploring options to gain approval 
in other geographic markets and our file has been accepted 
for review by Health Canada. We are also making investments 
to take EkoSonic
®
 into more EU territories. 
Investing in clinical studies and expanding the approved 
uses of our products should also drive future growth. A fully 
recruited trial in the US for the RePneu
®
 Coil could lead to US 
approval in late 2016 and would provide access to a significant 
market opportunity. We are investing in a study to expand the 
label for EkoSonic
®
 into the treatment of chronic deep vein 
thrombosis and post-thrombotic syndrome. We are 
accelerating three Phase III trials of TheraSphere
®
 that are 
intended to gain pre-market approval (PMA) in the US for 
treating patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC) and to support PMA approval as a second-line 
treatment for patients with metastatic tumours in the 
liver from colorectal cancer (mCRC).
Our innovation team continues to work in collaboration 
with physicians and key opinion leaders (KOLs) to identify 
new product development opportunities. A new generation 
of the EkoSonic
®
 control unit will allow bilateral treatment 
of pulmonary embolism for the first time. Within interventional 
oncology we are working on ways to innovate our Bead products.
The following pages describe how we are 
delivering our growth strategy through:
• Geographic expansion
Pages 08 and 09
• Indication expansion
Pages 1 0 and 1 1
• Product innovation
Pages 1 2 and 1 3
• Acquisitions
Pages 1 4 and 1 5
Values and people
BTG is a rapidly growing company and key to our success 
is the quality of our people and the way we conduct our 
business. Everything we do is guided by our values and 
behaviours, which are designed to underpin and foster 
a culture of always doing the right thing for the business 
and its stakeholders. See page 30 for more details.
Outlook
We are making good progress against our growth plans and 
this is underlined by the consistent delivery of our financial 
goals. With our portfolio of technologically leading products, 
we are confident that our strategy will enable us to succeed in 
today’s healthcare environment and that we can continue to 
build significant value in the business for all our stakeholders. 
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
07
Strategic 
Report
