 4
Chairman’s Statement
Bulgarian Land Development Plc Annual Report 2009
Introduction
2009 was a difficult year for the Group as the widespread turmoil
affecting real estate markets worldwide continued throughout 
the year. 
In August 2008 we committed to return some cash to shareholders
but during the preparation for a tender offer to shareholders in
2009 the terms of bank finance for the development of the Printing
House project by BLD Office Park AD (“BLD Office Park”), a joint
venture company in which the Company has a 50% interest, were
progressively and unilaterally amended by the bank. The bank is
Greek-owned. In these circumstances the Directors announced that
the Company may need to utilise existing resources to complete the
development and the tender offer was postponed. 
The directors of BLD Office Park have been negotiating with the
bank for several months although funds have continued to be
made available to BLD Office Park, albeit at a lower level than
originally agreed. There is no recourse to the Group for the bank
finance that has been drawn down by BLD Office Park. Construction
has continued at the site and, to date, BLD Office Park has not
required further equity from the Company. The directors of BLD
Office Park expect a satisfactory conclusion to the negotiations
with the bank to be reached. However should that not happen, and
if the Directors of the Company choose to complete the
development without further third-party financing, the Group has
sufficient cash resources (that would otherwise have been
distributed to shareholders). Construction is progressing and
remains within budget with practical completion due in summer
2010. The Directors are in detailed discussions with a number of
prospective tenants for the project. In the circumstances, the
Directors have adopted a prudent approach in preparing the
financial statements and provided against the net amount due to
the Group from BLD Office Park. 
The Directors have reduced costs in the Group and will seek to
reduce these further while activity levels are low.
Overview of progress to date
In addition to the Printing House development the Group has
continued to sell remaining units at its Harmony Hills development
as well as off-plan units acquired at Bansko and Sozopol.
Construction of one block was commenced at July Morning,
Kavarna to satisfy demand from a number of buyers who had paid
deposits for their units. It is expected that construction will be
completed in summer 2010.
During 2009 BLD has sought to add value selectively, at low cost, to
its existing development sites. Re-zoning applications to allow
residential development are in progress at two parcels of
agricultural land near Sofia and a building permit has been
obtained for BLD Sofia Tower for a development of 17,945 square
metres, an increase on the 13,899 square metres for which initial
permission was granted in December 2008.
Of the 32 units remaining at Harmony Hills, Rogachevo preliminary
contracts have been signed for 23. Deposits averaging 71% have
been paid on these units and completion is expected on them
during 2010, 9 units remain for sale, and 2 buyers, having decided
not to complete, forfeited their deposits. The Group has recognised
a profit of €0.25m for sales of units at Harmony Hills and €0.1m
profit on off-plan sales in the year ended 31 December 2009. 
Net asset value
Net asset value per share as at 31 December 2009 fell to €0.79 
(31 December 2008: €1.01), due to the loss per share of €0.22
(2008: €0.01 loss). At 30 June 2009 the Group reported a loss of
19.7p per share (equivalent to €0.22 per share) and net asset value
per share of 71.1p (equivalent to €0.84 per share at the exchange
rate at that time). The Group has changed its functional and
presentational currency to Euro to reflect the fact that virtually all
assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of the Group are now
recorded in Euro or Lev, which is pegged to the Euro. This reduces
significantly many of the changes in asset values due to exchange
movements. Jones Lang LaSalle Services SRL (“JLL”) have carried 
out an independent valuation of BLD’s incomplete sites as at 
31 December 2009, which shows a valuation of €37.4m (31 December
2008: €47.9m). This valuation has not been incorporated within the
results. Had this been done, the net assets would have increased in
value to €0.86 per share, an uplift of 9% on the book value. 
Risk and cost awareness
In the light of the continuing weak market and funding difficulties
in Bulgaria the Board continues to strive to reduce risk and costs
going forward. All decisions are made with those criteria in mind in
order to protect value for shareholders. Risk reduction has included
cautiously adding value to developments by re-zoning or obtaining
building permits and reducing development costs or postponing
developments. All costs have been reviewed in the light of the lower
level of current and proposed development activity and, as always,
with respect to the value provided to shareholders. No bonuses
have been awarded to directors for 2009 and the non-executive
directors have voluntarily reduced their fees temporarily despite the
increase in their workload created by the current situation.
Outlook
The Board is prepared for further difficult conditions in the
upcoming year. The priority is to manage BLD in a way that protects
asset value for shareholders by reducing both risks and costs. 
The Board will consider the sale of assets if financially justified. 
I should like to thank Christo Iliev, our CEO, Dimitar Savov, our
Executive Officer and the team in Bulgaria for their achievements
and hard work in 2009. The team is well placed to address the new
challenges and opportunities of market conditions in 2010.
Per Sjöberg
Chairman
22 March 2010
