 5 Bulgarian Land Development Plc Annual Report 2009
Financial Review
BLD generated €5.0m of revenue in 2009 (2008: €8.0m), €4.2m of
which related to sales of 92 Harmony Hills units, €0.5m
management fees at Printing House, €0.1m from the sale of off-
plan units and €0.2m of sundry income. The Group’s pre-tax result
was a loss of €8.4m (2008: €0.1m loss). As indicated in my report
last year we are taking a cautious approach to developing new sites
and did not complete any developments in 2009 but we expect to
complete construction at both Printing House and July Morning,
Kavarna in 2010.
Further financial information is given in the Finance Director’s
Review and in the Report of the Directors.
Bulgaria – the economy and property markets 
2009 marked an abrupt end to almost a decade of high economic
growth and low unemployment in Bulgaria. While the economy
expanded by 6.3% in 2008, the preliminary figure for 2009 shows
a contraction of 5.1% (source: National Statistical Institute). 
The forecast for 2010 is for an expansion of 0.3%. Unemployment
reached 9.1% in December 2009.
The real estate market lags the overall economy and therefore an
economic recovery will be followed by an improvement in this
market as well. BLD’s well-diversified portfolio should allow the
company to benefit later in 2010. 
In 2009 the most important characteristics of the segments in
which the Group operates were as follows:
• Commercial property (Printing House)
As many office projects were initiated before the onset of the
property crisis, the total office stock in Sofia increased by 20%
to 1,060,000 sq. m during 2009, the largest increase for 4 years
(source: Colliers International Bulgaria (“Colliers”)). 14% of the
total stock is located in the Central Business District (where the
Printing House is located), 23% in the Broad Centre and the
remaining 63% in the Suburban area. The past year was
characterised by significant delays in delivery dates due to
protracted negotiations for bank financing and decreases in
construction costs. On the demand side, the economic
downturn has enabled tenants, which are relocating to demand
up-to-date space at no additional cost with better lease terms
and efficient space planning. Adjusting to the market
conditions, many landlords have started to offer rent-free
periods, step-rents, coverage of relocation costs and other
incentives. As of December 2009, the total vacancy rate in
existing office space in Sofia reached 17.9% due to the high
vacancy rate of 25% in the Suburban area, where almost two-
thirds of inventory is located. The vacancy rates for the Central
Business District and the Broad Centre were 4.5% and 6.75%,
respectively (source: Colliers). 
• City centre, premium residential property (Sofia Tower)
Due to the scarcity of available plots of land in central Sofia the
supply of newly-built, high specification residential properties is
limited. Demand for such units (mainly from expatriates) has
been little affected by the crisis and, in general, is less sensitive
to the availability of credit. Rental levels for these properties
have been holding up in 2009. 
• Suburban residential property (land to the south and
west of Sofia)
2009 was characterised by many projects being put on hold
with very few transactions taking place for greenfield sites. 
The limited number of deals completed resulted in a decrease in
the price of land by approximately 40% in 2009. In the long run,
demand is expected to recover as Sofia continues to expand and
demand for suburban property increases. 
• Ski resort second/holiday home property (Borovets)
The postponement of the Super Borovets master plan has led
the Municipality of Samokov, which holds a 25% stake in the
entity to carry out the project, to seek alternative partners in
order to resurrect it. Prices of completed apartments in the area
remain at low levels, (source: Index Imoti magazine). 
• Coastal second/holiday home property (Harmony Hills
and July Morning)
Russian buyers continued to dominate this market segment
during 2009. Despite limited budgets of €30,000-€50,000,
clients are highly selective as to the location and construction
quality of units. Interest continues in Russia, particularly among
two groups of clients, 50-60 year-olds and younger families
with children.
Operational Review
During 2009 BLD reduced its activities to reduce risks and costs.
Construction work at the Printing House in Sofia commenced
during 2009 and should be completed by the summer of 2010.
Additionally, in reaction to demand at July Morning, Kavarna
construction of a small development was commenced. The delays to
the connection of the electricity supply at Harmony Hills reported
last year caused further delays in completions at the site. Preliminary
sales agreements had been signed for 23 of the remaining 32 units
and 9 were being re-marketed at the end of 2009. The Group has
continued working with other local developers at the sites where it
had bought units off plan and 31 remain to be sold.
Banking facilities were put in place in 2008 to complete the
development of the Printing House, however during 2009 the bank
progressively and unilaterally amended the terms of the funding.
The directors of BLD Office Park have been in negotiations with the
bank for several months and have also reduced the scale of the
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 6 Bulgarian Land Development Plc Annual Report 2009
development in order to obtain commercially acceptable funding.
At other sites the Board implemented its strategy of adding value
and improving marketability where it could be done at relatively
low cost and with low risk - such as re-zoning. Where pre-sales
interest has been low, sales activity has been stopped until the
market starts to improve. 
At the year end, the Group had a portfolio of developments with its
share of the estimated completed development value of €87m
(2008: €241m). In 2009 developments in progress or with building
permits have been included in the completed development value.
The reduction in the year is due to the postponement of the
Riverland, Borovets project and the reduction in scope of the July
Morning, Kavarna and Printing House projects. The projects are
described below.
Commercial property – Printing House
Having acquired (via a joint venture) the 29,000 square metres
Dimitar Blagoev Printing House in 2008 construction commenced
in 2009. Built in the 1950s, it is a historical landmark building, ten
minutes from the Parliament and close to Eagles’ Bridge; it is on the
main highway to the airport. 
The site forms five buildings out of eight on an island site; the key
owner-occupier of the other three buildings is the largest media
and press company in Bulgaria, owned by German WAZ. The five
buildings are being converted into modern class A commercial
space. The project scope has been reduced and now comprises
19,311 square metres of office accommodation and 1,310 square
metres of retail space, together with 190 above ground parking
spaces. 
Total project costs, including the purchase price, are estimated at
€44m. If the project cannot be sold at a profit at the end of the
development the joint venture partners will consider retaining the
property and leasing it out until conditions improve. The joint
venturers each made an initial investment of €6.5m as their 50/50
share in the joint venture and bank financing to cover the
remaining 75% of the project costs was secured in March 2008.
However the terms of the loan agreement have not been adhered
to by the bank and are currently in the process of being
renegotiated. The completed project is expected to attract first class
tenants, on account of its unique location and high end
specification and is now attracting interest from a number of
potential tenants, who have signed initial Heads of Terms.
Construction is expected to be completed in summer 2010.
BLD has earned project management fees of €0.5m (2008: €0.6m
initial fees) which have been included in the consolidated results in
2009. BLD’s joint venture profit share will be calculated on a rising
scale, dependent on the level of profits.
BLD Sofia Tower 
In September 2006, the Group acquired, off-market, the right to
develop this prime site on a small hill in the Lozenets area of central
Sofia, adjacent to the five star Kempinski Hotel. The site, which is 20
minutes from the international airport, is zoned for residential use.
The Group received a building permit in November 2009 for a
17,945 square metres mixed development of high class luxury
apartments with retail/office space on the lower levels and
underground car parking, with an estimated sale value of €51m. 
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement the consideration
payable to the vendors is a share of the sale proceeds, thereby
creating a liability for deferred payments. At 31 December 2008 it
was anticipated that the development would amount to 13,899
square metres, however the permit was ultimately issued for 17,945
square metres. The Board has therefore reviewed its assumptions
for the build area and the timing of the building work following
delays in obtaining the permit, along with changes in market and
credit conditions. The Board has taken a conservative approach and
has assumed that the Group will develop 17,945 square metres and
that building work will be completed 12 months later than
anticipated, commencing in early 2011 for completion by the end
of 2012. These changes have been reflected in the calculation of the
liability for deferred payments on the development, resulting in a
net charge to the 2009 statement of comprehensive income of
€2.7m.
Land acquisition, West and South of Sofia
In March 2008, BLD announced that it had made initial purchases
of agricultural land at two locations in the Sofia region. In the first
case 38,146 square metres were initially acquired at a cost of
approximately €1.7m, €45 per square metre. During 2008 further
parcels of land were acquired, at a similar cost per square metre,
creating a total of 60,159 square metres. BLD is in the process of
changing the planning zoning to residential use. BLD expects this
area to be attractive to Bulgarians as there is a trend for relocating
from the city centre to the suburbs with its better standard of
living, mountain views and good access to main roads.
In the second case, BLD initially acquired 46,673 square metres of
agricultural land in an area with good development potential
outside Sofia. The purchase price was approximately €500,000,
giving a price of approximately €11 per square metre. During 2008
further plots were purchased, at a similar price per square metre,
giving a total site area of 274,527 square metres. BLD is in the
process of changing the planning zoning to residential use. BLD
expects this area to be attractive to Sofia citizens and holiday home
buyers as it is within a 45 minute drive of Sofia. This location will
combine the benefits of city residential housing with easy access to
golf courses, spa facilities and ski runs.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued 7 Bulgarian Land Development Plc Annual Report 2009
Riverland, Borovets
In December 2006, BLD paid an initial sum of €5.0m for a 56,000
square metre former meat processing factory with planning
permission for residential development. Further payments, which
were also due on the ultimate sale of the development were settled
in October 2008 for cash and assets amounting to €5.8m.
The site is approximately 45 minutes from Sofia, near Borovets,
Bulgaria’s oldest and most famous ski resort. It is also attractive in
summertime. The location provides easy access to the existing
Borovets ski runs and other facilities. Shortly after BLD bought the
site, it was announced that the Super Borovets ski based resort was
to move ahead, developing 33 new ski runs, although that has now
been indefinitely postponed. The Directors consider that Super
Borovets would enhance the value of the Riverland project.
The site master plan has been completed, a design contract was
awarded in 2007 and a building permit for construction of Phase 1
and the local road servicing the complex was received in May 2008.
However, the Directors have decided not to add further costs to the
development and marketing was ceased in early 2009. 
See www.riverland-bg.com
Harmony Hills, Rogachevo
Building work at this small development of 180 apartments and 
22 villas was completed in September 2008. During 2008 sales of
78 units were completed and deposits were received on all 124 of
the remaining units but, due to unforeseen delays with the
electricity connection, legal completion of these units was delayed.
Sales of €8.0m and profit of €4.8m were taken in 2008 (78 units),
sales of a further €4.2m and profit of €0.3m (92 units) have been
taken in 2009. The 2008 sales revenue was affected by the
accounting for the settlement of the deferred payment at Borovets
described in the 2008 report and accounts. 32 units remain, for
which deposits have been paid on 23 and 9 have been re-marketed. 
See www.harmony-hills.com
July Morning Seaside Resort, Kavarna
BLD assembled part of this site in September 2006 through several
off-market purchases; it had seaside access but no road access. The
Group then purchased the intervening land to gain road access and
so benefited from the “marriage value”. The whole site of 95,000
square metres had permission for agricultural use and cost €4.3m.
It is right beside the Black Sea, in the Balchik-Kavarna area, one of
the most exclusive areas along the coast. Three internationally
designed golf courses and a yacht marina are nearby. 
After the development of a master plan, at a cost of €0.3m, a
change to residential zoning was granted in January 2008 that
would enable BLD to create an 80,000 square metre holiday
complex, producing a development (to be carried out in three phases
of approximately equal size) with an estimated ultimate sales value
of €75m. 
The original intention was to commence building Phase 1, comprising
432 units, in late 2008. However, as a result of limited pre-sales
demand the Board decided to develop a smaller Phase 1 of 55 units
predominantly funded by deposits from acquirers. The expected
sales value of the phase is €3.2m and development costs are
expected to amount to €2.2m with construction due to be finished
in summer 2010. 
See www.July-morning.com
Underwriting off-plan apartments
In order to provide a wider spread of risk in BLD’s portfolio and to
produce profits more quickly than from its own developments, BLD
partnered with a local Bulgarian developer in relation to projects
which were in areas where BLD had no involvement. BLD
underwrote the price at which units would sell and the developer
continued to market all of the apartments in return for a share of
the profit that would be made. This was important for two reasons:
it avoided buyer confusion as to who was marketing the
apartments and it gave the developer an incentive to sell those
apartments which BLD had underwritten.
This strategy has enabled BLD to generate profits without
committing considerable resources within BLD. Of the 346 units
originally contracted for 31 remained unsold at 31 December 2009.
Gains of €0.1m were recorded in 2009 (2008: nil). The commitment
to acquire the remaining units amounts to €0.8m.
Outlook
The impact of difficult worldwide markets, particularly in Europe,
began to affect Bulgaria towards the end of 2008 and has
continued throughout 2009 since much of the country’s
development funding was originally provided by overseas,
particularly Greek, banks. The Board has undertaken measures to
reduce risk and costs and will continue to manage its resources
cautiously while the market is depressed. 
Christo Iliev
Chief Executive Officer
22 March 2010
