 16 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
Chief Executive’s review
A combination of record acquisition spend during the  
year, the impact of prior year acquisitions and some  
organic growth has allowed us to develop both in existing 
and new geographies.
Operating performance
The overall translation effect of currency 
movements has once again affected the 
reported Group growth rates with the 
average US dollar stronger against sterling 
than in 2014 but the average Canadian dollar, 
euro, Brazilian real and Australian dollar all 
weaker than the prior year. As in previous 
years, the operations, including the relevant 
growth rates and changes in operating 
margins, are therefore reviewed below at 
constant exchange rates to remove the 
distorting impact of these currency 
movements. Changes in the level of revenue 
and profits at constant exchange rates have 
been calculated by retranslating the results 
for 2014 at the average rates used for 2015. 
Unless otherwise stated, all references in 
this review to operating profit are to adjusted 
operating profit (being operating profit 
before intangible amortisation and 
acquisition related costs). 
Revenue increased 5% (5% at actual 
exchange rates) to £6,489.7 million 
principally due to the positive impact of 
acquisitions together with some organic 
growth, which continues to be affected by 
price declines on plastic resin-based 
products, particularly in North America. 
Operating profit was £455.0 million, an 
increase of 7% (6% at actual exchange rates). 
The percentage growth in operating profit 
was greater than that of revenue due to  
the impact of higher margin acquisitions, 
resulting in an improvement in the Group 
operating margin by 10 basis points to 7.0% 
(unchanged at actual exchange rates).
In North America revenue rose 5% (11% at 
actual exchange rates) principally due to the 
impact of acquisitions completed in both 2014 
and 2015, while operating profit increased 
9% (16% at actual exchange rates) as the 
operating margin improved 30 basis points  
to 6.5% (20 basis points at actual exchange 
rates). Revenue in Continental Europe rose 
7% (down 2% at actual exchange rates) as a 
result of organic revenue growth and the 
impact of acquisitions, with operating profit 
up 10% (1% at actual exchange rates) and the 
operating margin up 20 basis points to 9.3% 
(30 basis points at actual exchange rates).  
In UK & Ireland revenue was up 3% (2% at 
actual exchange rates) due to the impact of 
both organic revenue growth and 
acquisitions, and operating profit rose 6% at 
both constant and actual exchange rates as 
the operating margin improved by a further 
30 basis points during the year to 7.7%.  
In Rest of the World revenue increased 6% 
(down 8% at actual exchange rates) but 
operating profit was down 11% (24% at  
actual exchange rates). Margins came  
under pressure due to the challenging 
macroeconomic conditions and some 
negative foreign exchange transaction 
impact of weaker local currencies in the 
relevant markets in both Latin America and 
Australasia, with the business area operating 
margin down 160 basis points (170 basis 
points at actual exchange rates) to 8.2%.
Basic earnings per share were 10% higher 
(at both constant and actual exchange rates) 
at 71.0p. Adjusted earnings per share,  
after eliminating the effect of intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs, 
were 91.0p, an increase of 7% (6% at actual 
exchange rates). The return on average 
operating capital decreased from 57.7% to 
55.5% principally due to reduced returns in 
the underlying business and the mix impact 
of recent, lower return acquisitions. The 
return on invested capital was 17.1%, down 
from 17.6% in 2014.
Highlights
Record acquisition spend of 
£327 million on 22 businesses  
with entry into two new countries.
North America
Revenue increase from recent 
acquisitions and underlying volume 
growth, partially offset by price 
declines in plastic products  
and some lost business. 
Continental Europe
Strong revenue and profit growth
†
 with 
operating margin up 20bp
†
 to 9.3%.
UK & Ireland
Operating margin up 30bp to 7.7% due 
to focus on reducing operating costs 
and managing margins. 
Rest of the World
Adjusted operating profit down 11%
†
 
due to challenging macroeconomic 
conditions and negative exchange 
transaction impact.
† At constant exchange rates. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 17
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
The operating cash flow continued to be 
strong with the ratio of operating cash flow 
before acquisition related costs to operating 
profit at 97%. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA 
calculated at average exchange rates 
increased to 2.1 times, which is at the lower 
end of our target range, compared to 1.8 
times as at the end of 2014. The increase is 
principally due to the significant acquisition 
spend during the year. 
Corporate responsibility remains intrinsic  
to the effective running of our business. We 
are continually seeking ways to ensure the 
sustainability of our business by developing 
our processes in this area. During the year 
we have focused further on our supply chain 
and its impact on our business. As a result, 
we are disclosing for the first time 
information on our Scope 3 carbon emissions 
comprising emissions from third party 
carriers, business flights, waste disposal 
and electricity transmission losses. In 
addition, we are completing a further 
risk assessment of our supply chain with 
regard to social issues and we are also 
undertaking a pilot project for closed loop 
recycling in conjunction with one of our  
existing suppliers. 
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are a key component of the 
Group’s growth strategy. Our committed 
spend in 2015 was a record £327 million  
as we completed 22 transactions in total, 
excluding Tillman which we agreed to 
acquire in December 2014 and completed  
at the beginning of January 2015.
In addition to Tillman, we completed the 
acquisition of two further businesses in 
January. Quirumed, which had revenue  
of £15 million in 2015, represents our first 
move into the healthcare sector in Spain, 
while Jan-Mar, based in Toronto with revenue 
of £6 million in 2015, has further extended 
our cleaning & hygiene supplies business  
in Canada.
Three acquisitions were completed in  
March. Janssen Packaging is engaged in the 
distribution of specialist packaging materials 
for the e-commerce, fashion and fulfilment 
sectors in the Netherlands. It complements 
and expands our retail supplies business 
thereby providing access to an extended 
range of innovative packaging solutions to 
both new and existing customers in this 
market. Revenue in 2015 was £6 million. 
In Canada we purchased two separate 
businesses at the end of the month. 
Emballages Maska is engaged in the sale of 
cleaning and hygiene supplies to distributors 
throughout Quebec and eastern Ontario. 
Revenue in 2015 was £16 million. Prescott 
distributes cleaning and hygiene products  
to a variety of end users in the construction, 
property management and healthcare 
sectors, as well as to some distributors, 
throughout the Montreal area of Quebec. 
Revenue in 2015 was £9 million. 
Ligne T, a distributor of personal protection 
equipment, principally workwear, based in 
Montauban, France, was purchased at the 
end of May. The business supplies a variety 
of end user customers throughout the 
south-west region of France and had 
revenue of £4 million in 2015. Also at the  
end of May we completed the acquisition  
of Istanbul Ticaret, a business engaged  
in the sale of a variety of personal protection 
equipment to both end users and other 
distributors throughout Turkey. Revenue  
in 2015 was £24 million. This is an exciting 
development for us as it represents our first 
acquisition in Turkey which is an important 
G20 economy that has grown steadily over 
recent years. The business has a broad 
range of both branded and own brand 
products and an excellent reputation for 
quality and service. It will provide a good 
platform from which to develop a significant 
business in Turkey.
2
new countries
  Read more about our new geographies 
on pages 20 and 21
Increasing employee 
awareness and improving 
our processes to reduce  
our environmental impact.
22
acquisitions
  Read more about our acquisition 
strategy on pages 10 and 11 18 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s review continued
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
ICB Cleaning Supplies in New Zealand, with 
revenue of £2 million in 2015, and Cemelin  
in Spain, with revenue of £3 million in 2015, 
are both distributors of cleaning and hygiene 
supplies and were acquired at the end of 
October and early November respectively. 
Casa do Epi, an important acquisition for  
our safety business in Brazil, was also 
purchased in November. The business is 
principally engaged in the sale of a wide 
range of personal protection equipment to 
end user customers in the mining, 
construction and manufacturing sectors. 
Revenue in 2015 was £16 million. At the end 
of November we acquired DPS, a distributor 
of catering disposables and a variety of 
cleaning, safety and packaging products 
based in Santiago with a number of other 
locations throughout Chile. Revenue in 2015 
was £25 million. The Company’s business in 
Spain was expanded at the end of November 
with the purchase of Faru. Based in Zaragoza, 
the business is engaged in the sale of personal 
protection equipment, including fall arrest 
and head protection products and safety 
shoes, to distributors throughout Spain. 
Revenue in 2015 was £3 million. 
At the beginning of December we purchased 
Comatec, which is engaged in the distribution 
of high-end, innovative single-use tableware 
to restaurants and hotels throughout France 
but also exports products to a large number 
of distributors in a number of countries 
worldwide. Revenue in 2015 was £14 million. 
We also acquired Dental Sorria in December. 
Based in Belo Horizonte in the State of Minas 
Gerais and with revenue of £6 million in 2015, 
the business has expanded our operations  
in Brazil into the dental supplies sector.
Since the year end we have agreed to acquire 
two further businesses. At the beginning  
of February 2016 we purchased Earthwise 
Bag Company, a distributor of reusable bags 
to supermarkets and other retailers in the 
US, which has expanded our offering of 
environmentally friendly products to the 
grocery and retail sectors. Revenue in 2015 
was £12 million. We also entered into an 
agreement in February relating to the 
proposed acquisition of Bursa Pazari,  
which had revenue of £31 million in 2015.  
It represents our second step in Turkey  
and extends our operations there into the 
foodservice and healthcare sectors. 
Completion of the acquisition is subject to 
clearance of the transaction by the Turkish 
competition authority.
GF, a distributor of industrial packaging, 
warehouse supplies and equipment which  
is based in Calgary, Canada, was acquired  
at the beginning of June. The business has  
a large and diverse base of end user 
customers in western Canada and had 
revenue in 2015 of £42 million. 
At the end of June we added two further 
businesses to the Group’s portfolio. Solmaq, 
based in Bogota, supplies a complete  
range of head-to-toe personal protection 
equipment and other welding and industrial 
consumables to distributors, retailers and 
end users throughout Colombia. Revenue 
was £14 million in 2015. It further extends 
our safety business in Colombia, being a 
market that we entered with the purchase  
of Vicsa at the end of 2012. Cordova Safety 
Products, based in Memphis, Tennessee, is 
engaged in the sale of a variety of personal 
protection equipment, principally gloves,  
to distributors throughout the US. Most 
products supplied are own label. Revenue  
in 2015 was £55 million.
We acquired three businesses in July. 
Steiner, which had revenue of £12 million  
in 2015, has further expanded our safety 
business in the US while Bidvest Hospitality 
Supplies and Delta Hospitality Supplies,  
each with revenue of £5 million in 2015,  
have added additional scale to our catering 
consumables and equipment business  
in Australia. 
The acquisition of Meier Verpackungen, 
which distributes customer specific 
packaging products to food processors and 
had revenue of £29 million in 2015, was 
completed in September and represents our 
first step into Austria, complementing our 
existing business in Switzerland. Planet 
Clean, which is based in Vancouver and  
is principally engaged in the sale and 
distribution of cleaning and hygiene supplies 
and equipment to a variety of customer 
markets throughout western Canada, was 
also acquired in September and had revenue 
in 2015 of £13 million. It is the seventh 
acquisition we have made in Canada since 
November 2013, as a result of which we have 
developed a national business there with 
annual revenue in excess of £340 million.
Prospects
Against the background of variable economic 
conditions, Bunzl’s strong competitive 
position, the impact of the significant 
acquisition spend in 2015 and the 
opportunities to consolidate our fragmented 
markets further are together expected to 
lead to continued growth in 2016.
In North America, the combination of recent 
acquisitions and underlying volume growth 
should result in a good performance despite 
the impact of price declines in plastic 
resin-based products. In Continental  
Europe, we expect to see a further strong 
performance due to both organic growth and 
the effect of recent acquisitions. In UK & 
Ireland, progress in 2016 will be held back 
principally due to pressure in the business 
serving the grocery and retail sectors. Rest 
of the World will see a strong benefit from 
recent acquisitions, although the outlook  
for both economic growth in the relevant 
markets and for exchange rates, particularly 
in Brazil, remains uncertain.
The pipeline of potential acquisitions remains 
promising. Discussions are continuing with  
a number of potential targets and we expect 
to complete further transactions as the  
year progresses.
The Board believes that the prospects of the 
Group are positive due to its strong market 
position and our ability to grow the business 
both organically and through acquisition.
Michael Roney
Chief Executive  
29 February 2016
Meeting customers’ needs 
through a broad and effective 
service offering. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 19
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
Management 
Managers from across the  
Group meet regularly to review 
performance, discuss trends 
affecting our businesses and seek 
further opportunities for growth 
and competitive advantage.
Our management teams thrive on the fast pace of our  
business and our decentralised organisation structure  
keeps responsibilities and decision making local and  
close to our customers. The hard work, dedication and 
commitment of everyone employed in the business are  
key to our ongoing success.
Michael Roney
Chief Executive
Brian May
Finance Director
Patrick Larmon
President and CEO  
North America
Celia Baxter
Director of Group  
Human Resources
Paul Budge
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland
Paul Hussey
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Frank van Zanten
Managing Director 
Continental Europe
Rodrigo Mascarenhas
Managing Director  
Latin America
Andrew Mooney
Director of Corporate 
Development
Kim Hetherington
Managing Director 
Australasia 20 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
extending 
our global 
reach
Our global presence 
Through the relentless pursuit  
of our acquisition strategy, the 
continuing operations of the  
Bunzl Group have developed from 
a business based in two countries 
in 1992 to one with a global 
presence operating across  
29 countries today.
In 2015 we entered 
two new countries 
making a total of
> 
29
countries across
> 
4
continents Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 21
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
Our ability to find the right targets in the 
right markets at the right time has enabled 
us to build a substantial international 
business and establish a strong base  
for continued further growth.
Since 2004 the Group has made more than 120 acquisitions, at a 
total cost of more than £2.2 billion, all of which have been self-
funded. In doing so, over this period we have increased the number 
of countries in which we operate from 14 to 29 and added annualised 
revenue in excess of £3.2 billion.
As part of the pre-acquisition process the Company adopts a 
disciplined approach with rigorous analysis and due diligence  
being carried out on the target businesses to ensure that they  
meet Bunzl’s criteria for acceptable financial returns.
Turkey
The acquisition of Istanbul Ticaret  
in May 2015 was an important development  
for the Group as it represented Bunzl’s first 
acquisition in Turkey which is an important G20 
economy that has grown steadily over recent 
years. The business has a broad range of both 
branded and own brand safety products, which 
it sells to end users and other distributors, and 
an excellent reputation for quality and service.  
It has provided a good platform from which to 
develop a significant business in Turkey.
Austria
The purchase of Meier Verpackungen in 
September 2015 was the Company’s second 
entry into a new country during the year. The 
business has a good position in the local market  
due to its ability to provide customer specific 
packaging products and complex packaging 
solutions in compliance with stringent food 
regulations at competitive prices, combined 
with high levels of customer service. The 
acquisition has improved the Group’s technical 
know-how in a specialist market sector.
  Read about our 
acquisition strategy  
on pages 10 and 11
Experience in making and 
integrating acquisitions 
successfully. 22 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
North America
In North America, revenue increased by  
5% to £3,751.8 million principally due to the 
impact of the three acquisitions made in 2014 
and the seven further businesses acquired 
during 2015. These acquisitions have enabled 
us to extend our product and service 
offerings and further consolidate the 
markets we serve. Although sales volumes 
increased, organic revenue growth was held 
back primarily due to deflationary pressures 
caused by price declines of plastic resin-
based products and the net impact of some 
lost business. As a result of recent 
acquisitions having higher operating margins 
than the underlying businesses, operating 
profit increased 9% to £244.0 million with  
the business area operating margin at 6.5%, 
an increase of 30 basis points at constant 
exchange rates.
Our largest business serving the grocery 
sector was adversely affected by deflationary 
pressures and some lost business but we 
gained some new accounts and renewed 
some large contracts with existing 
customers. We have taken steps to reduce 
operating costs further and improve 
efficiencies by continuing to invest in new 
high-tech distribution facilities. We continued 
to use our ‘Think Big’ marketing campaign  
to promote our ability to help food retailers 
improve their profitability in the fresh food 
areas of their stores using our category 
management techniques. By employing our 
flexible store delivery programmes, retailers 
are able to provide exceptional customer 
service with new, innovative packaging while 
reducing their expenses, improving their 
asset utilisation and ensuring that  
they have an optimal supply of the  
products they require.
Our objective is to give our 
customers a competitive 
edge and to improve the 
efficiency of their operations 
by offering them greater 
choice and excellent service 
throughout the supply chain 
from the initial order to the 
final delivery.
Patrick Larmon
President and CEO North America
Highlights
• Revenue increase principally from recent acquisitions with operating 
margin* up 30bp at constant exchange rates to 6.5%. 
• Grocery and redistribution businesses impacted by price declines  
in plastic products and some lost business. 
• Three safety acquisitions (Tillman, Cordova and Steiner) significantly 
enhance growing portfolio of own brand products.
• Recent acquisition activity in Canada creates national distribution 
platform in cleaning & hygiene.
• Strong revenue and profit growth in businesses serving food  
processor and agriculture sectors.
 North America is Bunzl’s largest  
and longest-established business  
area, having started in 1981 with the 
acquisition of Jersey Paper Company  
in the US. The revenue of the business 
area that year was £20 million. Over  
the last 35 years the operations have 
grown substantially throughout the  
US while at the same time have 
expanded into Canada, Mexico and 
Puerto Rico to become the market-
leading business that it is today with 
revenue of £3.8 billion.
Market 
sectors
5,097
Employees
 168
Locations
2015
£m
2014
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 3,751.8 3,372.1 5%
Adjusted operating profit* 244.0 211.1 9%
Operating margin* 6.5% 6.3%
* Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 23
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
In the retail sector, we gained several major 
new accounts and expanded our business 
with existing customers. We have continued 
to seek opportunities to grow our materials 
consolidation and custom fulfilment 
business in this sector and to expand this 
concept into the grocery and convenience 
store sectors. These services, combined  
with our expertise in store supplies, décor 
and branded packaging, further enhance  
the capabilities we are able to offer to 
retailers. We also continue to target the 
growing online retailing market with our 
efficient and cost-effective packaging 
solutions. We believe that the depth and 
breadth of our operational and merchandising 
offering for our customers enables us to 
provide an end-to-end solution that is 
unmatched in the retail sector. The recent 
purchase of Earthwise Bag Company has 
further extended our product offering to 
grocers and retailers.
Although we have also experienced the 
impact of deflationary pressures and some 
lost accounts in our redistribution business, 
we have continued to expand our category 
management programme with our 
foodservice distributor customers who 
increasingly see the value of partnering  
with us to fulfil their janitorial, sanitation and 
food packaging requirements. The ongoing 
investment in digital capabilities benefits  
our businesses serving all sectors but 
particularly in redistribution where 
customers use our digital tools to sell to 
their own customers. Our central warehouse 
network enables us to purchase inventory 
and supply janitorial and sanitation products 
more efficiently to our local branches and 
customers. This enhances our ability to 
provide our redistribution customers with 
access to a wider range of products, which  
in turn allows them to use us as their ‘virtual 
warehouse’ to improve their sales and 
profitability without having to invest in 
additional space and inventory.
In our business serving the safety sector,  
in addition to Tillman, which we agreed to 
acquire in December 2014 and completed at 
the beginning of January 2015, we purchased 
two further companies during the year, being 
Cordova Safety Products and Steiner. All 
three businesses are based in the US and 
supply industrial distributors with a range  
of personal protection equipment, including 
safety gloves and workwear, with Tillman 
and Steiner specialising in products for the 
welding industry. Their combined expertise 
in imports and product development will 
help us to enhance our growing portfolio  
of own brand safety products.
Customer consolidation in the food 
processor sector continues to present 
challenges as well as potential opportunities 
for business growth. We have experienced 
both revenue and profit growth in the sector 
as a result of our national account strategy 
and investment in additional resources which 
together have enabled us to improve our 
account penetration. Additionally we have 
expanded our own label product offering 
including our new line of Clarity vacuum 
pouches, shrink bags and bin liners.
We have seen strong sales and profit growth 
in our business that supplies the agriculture 
sector and we have expanded our presence 
and capabilities in Mexico in order to meet 
demand in the region. To improve both 
collaboration and efficiency, all of our 
businesses serving in this sector are 
operating on a new IT system. We continue  
to develop innovative products to meet the 
demands of our customers. For example, 
Destiny Packaging has introduced the ‘grab & 
steam’ product, a retail version of a zippered 
microwavable cooking bag featuring steam 
valve technology.
In other product developments, FoodHandler 
has expanded its marketing of the ‘oneSAFE’ 
single-use glove dispensing system for the 
foodservice and healthcare sectors that 
significantly reduces cross-contamination 
and thereby improves food safety standards.  
A dedicated ‘oneSAFE’ website has been 
developed featuring educational materials 
designed to position the system as a leading 
product in food and health safety.
Despite the challenges presented as a 
result of continued customer consolidation 
in the convenience store sector, we have 
achieved steady profit growth as we have 
worked with our key wholesale partners 
to execute a pull-through strategy with 
key convenience store retailers. With our 
supplier managed inventory services, our 
wholesale partners are able to reduce their 
working capital and warehouse space needs 
while benefiting from excellent fill rates and 
just-in-time delivery.
Finally, we have acquired five businesses in 
Canada during the year, four of which operate 
in the cleaning & hygiene sector, that have 
enabled us to establish a truly national 
distribution platform in this important 
market. Our most recent acquisition, Planet 
Clean in September, specialises in offering 
environmentally friendly and sustainable 
cleaning and hygiene products. With our 
purchase of GF in June, we have entered into 
the industrial packaging sector and further 
expanded our offering of products and 
services for our customers. Additionally,  
we have combined several of our businesses 
in Winnipeg into one large facility to drive 
greater efficiencies and productivity. We will 
continue to use this method of consolidation 
throughout the North America business area 
where we have multiple business units 
operating stand-alone facilities in the same 
market area. 24 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
Continental Europe
Continental Europe developed strongly with 
revenue rising by 7% to £1,121.0 million  
and operating profit up 10% to £104.5 million 
despite the slow macroeconomic recovery in 
many of the countries in which we operate. 
Gross margins came under pressure from 
the strength of the US dollar against the 
euro, thereby increasing the cost of our 
imports, but careful management of the cost 
base enabled the underlying business to 
maintain its profitability. This has been 
supplemented by the full year impact of the 
four 2014 acquisitions and the part year 
contribution of the eight acquisitions 
completed in 2015, with the operating margin 
rising by 20 basis points at constant 
exchange rates to 9.3%. In a significant 
development, we entered two new countries 
during the year with the acquisition of 
Istanbul Ticaret, a personal protection 
equipment distribution business, in Turkey at 
the end of May and Meier Verpackungen, 
which distributes packaging products for 
food processors, in Austria at the beginning 
of September. Both businesses are 
integrating well into the Group. Today we 
have announced our second step into the 
Turkish market with the proposed acquisition 
of Bursa Pazari which will extend our 
operations there into the foodservice and 
healthcare sectors.
In France, sales at our cleaning & hygiene 
business declined slightly due to continuing 
pressure in the contract cleaning sector in 
particular. However cost reduction measures 
mitigated this decline with profits improving 
in the year. Our personal protection 
equipment business also recorded lower 
sales, the impact of which could only partly 
be offset by lower costs. Ligne T, the 
specialist safety business acquired in May 
2015, has traded in line with expectations  
and is integrating well. At the beginning  
of December we acquired Comatec which 
We have a broad product 
range and a wide geographic 
spread across a variety 
of market sectors which 
continue to position us well 
to meet our customers’ 
demands in the future.
Frank van Zanten
Managing Director Continental Europe
Highlights
• Strong constant exchange revenue and profit growth with operating 
margin* up 20bp at constant exchange rates to 9.3%.
• Entry into two new countries, Turkey and Austria.
• Impact of lower sales in France offset by continued cost  
reduction measures.
• Good growth in the Netherlands driven by acquisitions and progress  
in the safety, healthcare, retail and food processor sectors.
• Significant profit growth in Denmark.
• Further improvement in Spain and central Europe.
 Bunzl acquired its first business in 
Continental Europe with the purchase  
of Hopa Disposables in the Netherlands  
in 1994. This was followed by acquisitions 
in Germany, Denmark and France in 
1997, 2000 and 2004 respectively. By 
2010 the business had expanded through 
acquisition into a further eight countries 
and today operates in 14 countries 
across the continent.
Market 
sectors
3,762
Employees
 1 13
Locations
2015
£m
2014
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 1,121.0 1,146.3 7%
Adjusted operating profit* 104.5 103.2 10%
Operating margin* 9.3% 9.0%
* Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 25
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
specialises in the distribution of high-end, 
innovative single-use tableware to hotel, 
restaurant and catering (‘horeca’) 
customers. This is a significant addition to 
our operations in France and expands our 
business there in the foodservice sector.
In the Netherlands, sales grew well in the 
healthcare, food processor and retail 
sectors, more than offsetting lower sales  
in the horeca, grocery, cleaning & hygiene 
and government sectors. Although gross 
margins are under pressure, costs remain 
tightly managed. Allshoes and De Ridder 
have both integrated successfully into the 
Group and performed ahead of our initial 
expectations. Janssen Packaging, the 
distributor of specialist packaging for the 
e-commerce, fashion and fulfilment sectors 
which was acquired in March 2015, had a 
very successful year due in particular to its 
exposure to the e-commerce sector. It has 
now been fully integrated into our existing 
retail business. The Majestic personal 
protection equipment business generated 
good sales growth overall and margins 
improved despite the strength of the US 
dollar as sales of own brand products 
continued to grow. 
In Belgium, strong sales growth in the 
cleaning & hygiene sector came both from 
significant volume increases with a number 
of larger customers as well as from winning 
new customers, which more than offset 
slightly lower sales in the grocery and food 
processor sectors. Margins were down due 
to the impact of new, lower margin business 
while costs remained carefully controlled.
In Germany, sales grew well with regional 
accounts and also in the hotel sector 
although margins were lower than the  
prior year. The main business has 
successfully implemented our Microsoft 
Dynamics AX ERP system. Our safety 
business reported good sales growth and  
the cleaning & hygiene business grew 
significantly, having won a large new 
customer during the year. 
In Switzerland, revenue was up in the 
industrial sector which offset a decline in  
the retail sector. Sales were broadly flat in 
the medical and horeca sectors. The local 
economy continues to suffer from the 
strength of the Swiss franc which has 
adversely affected both tourism and  
exports. Profits were also at a similar  
level to last year.
In Denmark, revenue increased strongly  
with a particularly good performance  
in sales to the public sector and to 
redistributors. Growth in sales to the retail 
sector remained low but significant gains 
were made in selling personal protection 
equipment. Together with careful margin  
and cost management, this led to a 
significant rise in profit.
In Spain, sales grew well, especially of 
personal protection equipment, as the  
local economy has continued to improve. 
Although margins remained under  
pressure, in particular due to the strength  
of the US dollar, profits increased strongly. 
Quirumed, the healthcare products business 
acquired in January 2015, was particularly 
affected by the weak euro, which increased 
the costs of imports, but the business is 
integrating well. The integration process is 
also under way at Cemelim and Faru, both 
acquired in the last quarter of the year.
In Israel, sales increased in the bakery 
sector and were flat in the horeca sector. 
Margin pressure due to the weakening 
shekel was offset by tight cost control  
with profits ahead of last year.
In central Europe, revenue rose strongly in 
Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic 
with increased sales in both the retail and 
industrial sectors. Margins were lower  
given the high levels of growth with larger 
customers but overall profits in the region 
increased significantly. 26 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
UK & Ireland
In UK & Ireland revenue increased 3% to 
£1,102.4 million and operating profit rose  
6% to £84.9 million. Our constant focus on 
reducing operating costs and managing 
margins led to our operating margin 
improving to 7.7%, up 30 basis points on 
the previous year. This is a very creditable 
performance in a market with noticeably 
increased competition and also an 
unprecedented level of tender activity  
from many of our customers. 
Our safety business has performed well, 
with revenue and profits both up, having 
successfully integrated the two acquisitions 
from 2014 and continued to build the own 
label programme with new products and 
ranges being introduced in footwear, gloves 
and clothing. To optimise the cost base, the 
branch network has been consolidated 
further, resulting in the closure and 
integration of three locations. Our cleaning  
& hygiene supplies business continues to 
provide a very good service to the major 
facilities management companies in the UK 
and profits increased as we continued to help 
our customers mobilise new projects both 
rapidly and effectively.
In retail supplies, a recent account loss has 
given rise to a reorganisation of the business 
which we believe is now well positioned for 
the future and this has been supported by the 
successful retention of our largest customer 
just before the year end. Although the 
government-imposed tax on single-use 
plastic carrier bags introduced in early 
October has reduced sales of those products, 
we anticipated this change and have 
continued to develop our offering of Bags for 
We have continued to 
improve our operational 
efficiency through good 
margin management and 
careful control of costs while 
continuing to invest in new 
facilities and technology.
Paul Budge
Managing Director UK & Ireland
2015
£m
2014
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 1,102.4 1,078.5 3%
Adjusted operating profit* 84.9 80.1 6%
Operating margin* 7.7% 7.4%
* Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
Highlights
• Good profit growth with operating margin* up 30bp to 7.7%.
• Significant profit increase in safety led by acquisitions and  
expanded own label product ranges. 
• Grocery and retail sectors remain challenging.
• Hospitality continues to grow well and further development  
of own label product ranges.
• Healthcare performed well despite increased customer focus  
on cost reductions.
• Significant improvement in Ireland driven by increased retail  
activity and tourism.
 The acquisition of Automatic Catering 
Supplies in 1993 marked the beginning 
of the Group’s expansion into Europe. 
Bunzl subsequently entered the 
cleaning & hygiene sector in 1996,  
the retail and grocery sectors in 1999 
and the healthcare and safety sectors 
in 2000. Since then the UK & Ireland 
business area has continued to develop 
significantly with annual revenue now  
in excess of £1 billion.
Market 
sectors
3,636
Employees
88
Locations Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 27
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
Life which has offset some of this lost 
revenue. While also in a very competitive 
trading environment, Keenpac, our branded 
retail packaging business, has had a very 
successful year with some good account 
wins and has achieved good growth.
Our marketing services business has  
proven to be a valuable addition to the Group. 
In 2015 we had good success in renewing 
customer contracts and winning new 
business. This, together with the synergy 
benefits of merging our three businesses 
into one, has made us the clear market 
leader in this area.
Our hospitality businesses have performed 
well and benefited from a year of increased 
consumer activity and investment by many  
of our customers. The catering disposables 
business increased both revenue and profits 
as a consequence of the continued focus on 
account management, service, tailored 
solutions, product category management 
and a comprehensive own label programme. 
All of this is supported by an operational 
platform which continues to improve its 
efficiency and quality of service. Our  
catering equipment business has also  
had a very successful year. Investment by 
customers has resulted in growth in activity 
of kitchen design services and the increased 
supply of heavy catering equipment. 
Concentrated efforts to build a direct 
marketing offering has successfully targeted 
and grown new and smaller customers.  
The own brand programme has had ongoing 
investment and the development during  
the year included new ranges of crystal 
glassware, plastic glassware, cutlery and 
porcelain. At the end of the year we opened 
an innovation centre in London to showcase 
our ranges of branded and own brand 
products and the project to relaunch our 
website will be completed in the first half  
of 2016. We continue to invest in the  
growth of this business and will shortly  
be commissioning a new warehouse  
facility to consolidate our imported  
own label products. 
The healthcare business has had a 
successful year, especially in an environment 
where there have been customer spending 
constraints and an exchange rate impact on 
imports. Sales growth has come from acute 
hospitals looking to save money on the cost 
of goods and services who see the advantage 
in utilising our efficient, high-service 
platform. As there is ongoing pressure  
on prices, we are concentrating our efforts 
on the overseas sourcing of items and 
looking to consolidate supply from fewer 
suppliers in the Far East.
In Ireland, the domestic economy has improved 
and the renewed consumer confidence has had 
an impact on retail activity and tourism, both of 
which are drivers of activity in our businesses 
there. Despite the adverse impact of the 
weakening euro, a number of initiatives 
undertaken with both suppliers and 
customers have helped to produce a very 
good result in this progressively improving 
area of our business.
During the year we continued to invest  
in our digital capabilities. Converting more 
customers onto electronic ordering 
platforms has been a priority which has 
delivered positive results. We have three  
new websites in cleaning and safety with  
a new one being launched in catering 
equipment shortly. One of our coffee shop 
chain customers now utilises our bespoke 
smartphone app to place orders. This offers 
significant benefits to the customer and will 
provide a strong platform for other high 
street customers to transition to the app 
in due course. Electronic proof of delivery 
systems are now in place in a number  
of our businesses and will be rolled out  
further. We also hold significant volumes  
of transaction data in our businesses  
which record the ordering behaviour of our 
customers and our service delivery. Our 
ability to analyse this data and share it with 
our customers and suppliers is of great 
benefit to them and is serving to enhance our 
reputation and the value of what we can offer. 28 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
Rest of the World
In Rest of the World revenue increased  
6%to £514.5 million but operating profit  
fell 11% to £42.1 million as margins came 
under pressure due to the challenging 
macroeconomic conditions and the impact  
of significant currency weakness in both 
Latin America and Australasia which have 
particularly affected those businesses  
that import large volumes of products.
The economies in Latin America have 
suffered a number of strong headwinds 
during the year. In particular a very 
depressed commodity market, combined 
with significant exchange rate depreciation 
and intense economic pressure and political 
volatility in Brazil, have created challenging 
market conditions across the region.
In Brazil, our largest market in Latin 
America, the political uncertainty regarding 
the current government administration, 
combined with steep interest rate increases 
to curb inflationary pressures, created a 
deep recession with a consequential adverse 
impact on industrial production. Our safety 
business was particularly affected by this 
decline in output and increased levels of 
unemployment leading to a significant fall in 
profitability. The acquisition in November of 
Casa do EPI, which is based in the State of 
Minas Gerais and has a good reputation and 
an excellent customer portfolio, will help 
strengthen our position in a region where we 
were previously under-represented. We have 
been able to pass on some of the exchange 
rate impact through price increases and 
changes in the product mix and will continue 
to focus on this going forward in order to 
mitigate the impact of these market 
pressures. However, due to the continued 
weakness in the Brazilian real, combined 
with a long lead time for imported products, 
it will take some time before we begin to  
see a recovery in operating margins. 
Nonetheless, this disruption in the supply 
chain is providing some opportunities in  
the marketplace as a result of our well-
established infrastructure and extensive 
product portfolio.
Our cleaning & hygiene business in Brazil 
has expanded following the successful 
integration of JPLUS, acquired in 2014, and 
we have been able to increase revenue in our 
healthcare business although margins in 
both businesses also came under pressure. 
We acquired Dental Sorria, a market leader 
in the supply of dental products in the State 
of Minas Gerais, in December 2015 which has 
further enhanced our product offering in the 
healthcare sector in Brazil. 
Highlights
• Margins under pressure due to challenging macroeconomic conditions 
and currency weakness affecting product purchase prices.
• Latin America
 − Weaker performance at Brazil safety with significant fall  
in profitability.
 − Other businesses trading broadly in line with expectations.
• Australasia
 − Market position further consolidated in consumables.
 − Industrial and safety adversely impacted by slowdown  
in resources sector.
 The current operations of the Group  
in Rest of the World started in 1983 
with the acquisition of United  
Suppliers based in Sydney, followed  
by the purchase of a number of other 
businesses throughout Australia and 
New Zealand over the next 30  
years. The Group’s first move into  
Latin America was in 2008 with the 
acquisition of Prot Cap in São Paulo 
since when the business has expanded 
both within Brazil and into five other 
countries in the region.
Market 
sectors
2,549
Employees
 101
Locations
2015
£m
2014
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 514.5 559.6 6%
Adjusted operating profit* 42.1 55.5 (11)%
Operating margin* 8.2% 9.9%
* Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 29
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
In the rest of Latin America, the picture is 
mixed with softer demand and pressure on 
margins in almost all of our markets. Despite 
this, our businesses are trading broadly in 
line with our expectations. We have also 
been able to acquire some excellent 
businesses across different sectors and 
geographies which will further strengthen 
our market position in Latin America and 
provide a solid platform for future growth  
as trading conditions improve.
In Chile, we acquired DPS at the end of 
November. The business provides catering 
disposables and a variety of cleaning, safety 
and packaging products to wholesalers  
and distributors as well as to restaurants, 
supermarkets and other end users. This  
is our third acquisition in Chile and has 
bolstered our position in the market there. 
Vicsa and Tecno Boga faced challenging 
conditions, caused primarily by the reduction 
in mining investment as a result of the  
weak Chilean economy and the continuing 
pressure on commodity prices, but despite 
this both businesses held up well.
In Colombia, our business has been  
enhanced significantly by the acquisition  
of Solmaq at the end of June which has 
further consolidated our product and  
service offering there. The business  
supplies a complete range of personal 
protection equipment and welding and  
other consumables to customers  
throughout the country. 
In Mexico, our safety business, which 
incorporates both Espomega and Vicsa 
Mexico, had a good year with revenue and 
profits both improving strongly despite the 
pressures caused by currency fluctuations. 
In Australasia, the business environment 
continued to be challenging with ongoing 
contraction and slowdown in the resources 
sector and declining commodity prices 
impacting market conditions. Compounding 
this, the weakening of the Australian dollar 
has increased the cost of imports thereby 
increasing margin pressures at a time when 
businesses were looking for cost reductions 
to offset the softer market conditions.
Although adversely impacted by the market 
downturn and margin pressures, our largest 
business, Outsourcing Services, which 
supplies the healthcare, cleaning, catering 
and retail sectors, nevertheless delivered a 
solid performance. The business strategy to 
develop a strong and sustainable position in 
the more resilient market sectors places the 
business well for future growth and should 
result in an improved performance as the 
market recovers. To support this strategy the 
business made three acquisitions during the 
year, Bidvest Hospitality Supplies in 
Adelaide, Delta Hospitality Supplies in 
Brisbane and ICB Cleaning Supplies in 
Auckland, New Zealand. The purchase of the 
two catering businesses creates additional 
scale and capability as we continue to build 
our national footprint in this sector and ICB 
Cleaning Supplies brings further knowledge 
and expertise into our New Zealand business 
as we continue to develop our position in  
this market.
Our food processor business continued to 
build momentum with another improved 
performance. The business is developing its 
position as a leading supplier to the 
Australian and New Zealand food industries. 
Our strategy to diversify into non-meat food 
processors, supported by specialist and 
technical resources, also continues to 
develop well. This is creating a solid 
foundation which should deliver strong 
growth prospects for the future. Our 
investment, continued focus and development 
of our specialist resources has helped to 
build creditability and scale in this market. 
This strategy will continue as we look for 
additional opportunities to develop and 
enhance our position further in this sector. 
Our customers rely on our 
sourcing expertise and 
the deep knowledge of our 
product offering to ensure 
that they get the items 
that they need, where and 
when they are required.
Rodrigo Mascarenhas
Managing Director Latin America
As a service oriented 
company we have 
continued to focus on 
providing training and 
development for our 
employees who are key  
to the ongoing success  
of our business.
Kim Hetherington
Managing Director Australasia
Our industrial and safety supplies  
business has been the most affected by  
the slowdown in the resources sector.  
We have endeavoured to offset the impact  
of the downturn by consolidating facilities 
and making structural changes to reorganise  
the business to fit the current market 
environment. In order to reposition the 
business for future growth, we have invested 
in technology, processes and operational 
initiatives to enhance our competitive 
position and create efficiencies. We are  
also focused on developing new product 
innovations and redesigning our current 
product range to create a point of difference 
with improved safety, comfort and 
performance characteristics. A number  
of these initiatives will be launched in the 
first half of 2016 which should create 
additional business opportunities going 
forward. Although trading conditions have 
been challenging, the business has been 
successful in winning a number of new 
customers which has strengthened  
our market position and enabled us  
to diversify into more resilient market 
sectors and regions. 30 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review
Our teams across the Group are 
experienced and incentivised to 
provide high quality service and 
produce sustainable returns. We 
believe that the autonomy given 
to our people to take decisions 
locally ensures that, despite our 
size, we retain the feel of a market-
focused, local business for both our 
employees and customers.
valuing our people 
Giving clear roles  
and objectives
Our flat organisation structure and 
clear lines of responsibility mean 
that our people understand what 
they need to do and when they need 
to do it and, as a result, are able to 
provide excellent customer service.
Encouraging health  
and wellbeing
Maintaining excellent health is 
crucial for our employees’ 
wellbeing both at work and at 
home and we actively encourage 
this by sponsoring activities such 
as ‘stepping’ challenges, health 
checks and exercise programmes. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 31
valuing our people 
Providing development and training opportunities
We endeavour to ensure that everyone takes personal responsibility  
for themselves to grow within their roles. Where appropriate to do so,  
we foster internal appointments and promotions and support personal  
development through formal training programmes, as well as help  
to provide learning on the job.
Encouraging feedback and communication
A combination of regular employee engagement surveys, company social  
media sites and intranet and video technologies allow us to receive feedback 
from our workforce and to collaborate effectively across the world.
Retaining former owners
Our business model is capital light and 
relies heavily on our people and their 
local market knowledge and expertise. 
The acquisition of businesses is a crucial 
part of our strategy to grow and develop 
and post-acquisition it is important that 
we retain the former owners and other 
key staff to ensure that successful 
ongoing customer relationships 
are maintained.
One of the key reasons 
we sold our business to 
Bunzl was to benefit from 
the skills and experience 
that they could provide to 
help us grow our business 
faster. We were initially a 
little nervous about joining 
a big company and whether 
we would lose all control 
and identity. However 
after four years with the 
Group I am very pleased 
with the growth of our 
business, the freedom we 
have been given to operate 
and the personal career 
development which has 
opened up to us. It is  
great being part of the 
Bunzl family! 
Steven Sudre
General Manager, Safety Brazil
Matching employee 
fundraising for  
charitable causes
By matching the charitable 
fundraising of our employees,  
we are able to support the 
communities in which we operate 
as well as the charities that are 
valued by our employees.
