 Balfour Beatty 12
a clear strategy to build  
t he infrastructure business
strategic review from the chief executive
“ Whatever the challenges ahead, we face them with 
ever greater capability, a strong balance sheet based 
on robust cash generation, and a strong platform for 
further growth.”
Ian Tyler  
Chief Executive Annual report and accounts 2010 13
Complex customers
In both developed and developing economies, our 
customers, often governments and large regulated 
bodies, are facing more complex challenges. One of 
our core skills is our ability to understand customers’ 
varied needs and the complexities of the environments 
in which they operate – and to harness the potential 
of our whole business to deliver solutions.
Integrator capability
One key to delivery in a complex world is the ability to 
bring together all the necessary elements and resources. 
Increasingly, our customers want us to reduce interface 
and delivery risk on complex projects by integrating the 
supply chain as well as the related stakeholders such as 
owners, end-users and regulators. Integrating the supply 
chain is a core competency in the industry, but few, if any, 
of our competitors can match our ability to manage these 
critical interfaces that deliver a quality asset – and to do 
this on a global scale.
Our combined strength in these core skills differentiates 
us – especially on large, complex projects. Projects 
such as Heathrow’s Terminal 2B described on page 21 
or Denver’s rapid transit P3 described on page 39 show 
how we harness skills across our business to deliver and 
manage not just individual assets but complex 
infrastructure systems.
Despite the undoubted short-term challenges in some 
parts of the world, the infrastructure market offers 
excellent medium and long-term growth opportunities 
– you can read more about these on pages 24 to 27.
So how will we seize those opportunities? Our strategy 
has five elements: 
1  Develop our business further 
More information on page 14
2  Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities 
More information on page 16
3  Improve operational performance 
and cost-effectiveness  
More information on page 18
4  Continue to strengthen core skills  
More information on page 20
5  Continue to show leadership in values  
and behaviour  
More information on page 22
Over the past five years we have been building Balfour 
Beatty into a world-leading provider of services to 
infrastructure owners. We want to be recognised as 
‘the infrastructure business’.
The results speak for themselves. Since 2005, we 
have delivered 22% annual growth in pre-tax profit 
and 12% annual growth in dividends per share. We have 
maintained revenue and profit growth throughout the 
global downturn. Whatever the challenges ahead, we 
face them with ever greater capability, a strong balance 
sheet based on robust cash generation, and a strong 
platform for further growth.
We have deepened our insight into what infrastructure 
owners really want ‘the infrastructure business’ to be. 
We have refined our business model, and assembled 
a more comprehensive set of capabilities than those 
of our international peers. In turn, this gives us access 
to a broader range of markets and customers.
We set out to establish a business delivering a full range 
of services to owners and operators of the transport 
systems, power and water assets and complex buildings 
that all societies need. And we aim to support these 
assets through all stages of their lifecycle, from planning 
and investment to construction and maintenance. 
To do this effectively, we bring together four core skills:
Technical expertise
Only a handful of organisations across the world 
can match the breadth and depth of expertise about 
infrastructure assets that we have accumulated in 
the Group.
Local knowledge
Infrastructure is bought by local customers to serve 
local communities, so knowledge of local markets and 
their needs makes a real competitive difference. Working 
in more than 80 countries and 300 offices worldwide, 
we are strongly placed to capture local knowledge and 
nurture local relationships. 
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | 2010
2009
£15.2bn
£14.1bn
2010
2009
£10,541m
£10,339m
Balfour Beatty 14
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Pursue opportunities to add capability to Professional 
Services by acquisition
Complete the transition of administration and operation 
for the majority of Support Services contracts to the 
National Operations Centre
Seek acquisitions for Construction Services to fill gaps 
in our US coverage, particularly in Atlanta and on the 
West Coast
Apply the skills of Infrastructure Investments and PB 
to launch an infrastructure funds management business
Why is this important?
To address our broad range of markets effectively, 
we have grouped our operating companies into four 
segments by fundamental capability. Within each 
segment their strategies are tailored to their individual 
markets. To generate consistent growth, we need 
to ensure that they can all make a full contribution, 
both individually and as part of bespoke project teams.
What are we doing?
We have a good record of acquiring and growing 
businesses. Between 2005 and 2010, we nearly doubled 
our UK construction business. We grew our facilities 
management business from £250m sales to £600m in 
six years, doubled our US construction business profits 
in the three years since acquisition, and built our PPP 
business from scratch into the UK’s largest primary 
PPP infrastructure investor outside the financial sector.
We also have a cash-generative business which 
could give us the capacity to make acquisitions worth 
£500m–£700m over the next four to five years if the 
right opportunities arise at an attractive price.
In recent years, we have been focusing attention on 
growing our Professional Services and Support 
Services activities to even the balance between our 
capabilities and increase the prominence of these 
relatively high-margin activities in our business mix. 
We expect to continue this pattern. 
As in the past, we will maintain a combination of organic 
growth and acquisitions. Before acquiring Parsons 
Brinckerhoff (PB) in 2009, we had already grown a 
600-strong professional services business in the UK from 
scratch. With PB, we have grown this highly technical 
team to 13,500. We want to keep adding capabilities 
and geographic coverage to this business – as we did 
recently by acquiring Halsall in Canada. We see further 
opportunities in the power, water, mining and 
transportation sectors.
In Support Services, we may need to acquire some 
additional skills as the scope for public sector outsourcing 
expands. But our investment is more likely to be in 
creating the infrastructure to support organic growth – 
as with the new National Operations Centre in 
Manchester – and in contract start-ups. 
We will continue to grow Construction Services both 
organically and by acquisition. Our acquisition focus 
will be mainly outside the UK, although there may 
occasionally be niche opportunities in the UK, such 
as our recent purchase of parts of Rok. This enhanced 
our position in the UK affordable housing market and 
expanded our airport construction capabilities.
Our diverse range of capabilities is a great strength in uncertain times. It enables us 
to access a wide range of markets and change focus between them to go where the 
opportunities are greatest at any given time. We believe we have a balanced group of 
businesses that are all capable and competitive players in their own areas of expertise 
and that each of our divisions has the right ingredients to develop further.
strategic review
1 Develop our business further
How are we performing?
Order book
+8%
Revenue
1
+2%
1
 Including joint ventures and associates. Annual report and accounts 2010 15
Canada’s buoyant infrastructure market offers significant opportunities. 
Our £33m acquisition of Toronto-based Halsall has brought us over 
300 people providing design and engineering services from seven offices 
across the country. Previously employee-owned, Halsall will gain new 
momentum from being part of Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
Growing our businesses in buoyant markets Canada
“ Being part of PB is exciting and inspiring. Our 
customers can look to us for a broader range of 
solutions for their projects. Our employees will 
increasingly be able to apply their ideas, practices 
and innovations to infrastructure as well as buildings.”
 Peter Halsall, 
 Chairman, Halsall
The acquisition builds on PB’s presence in Canada, 
increasing our access to projects at the earliest stages 
of development. Halsall’s focus on sustainability as 
it applies to communities, buildings and infrastructure 
neatly complements PB’s positioning in Canada. 
We have plans to build Professional Services’ presence 
in other markets and geographies. 
Given our strength in UK and US public-private 
partnerships (PPPs), Canada looks attractive to our 
investment business. We have set up an investment 
team in Toronto supported by our US and UK PPP 
businesses. Bidding with our US construction business, 
it has already been shortlisted for two projects and 
is currently looking at another 10 opportunities.
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Walking tall Halsall projects include the Royal Ontario 
Museum and Canada’s National Gallery (far right).
Line drawing courtesy of Studio Daniel Libeskind. 2010
2009
£1,224m
£930m
Balfour Beatty 16
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Leverage our presence in emerging markets, particularly 
Asia, India and South Africa 
Develop our capabilities in utility markets such as water 
and power, including nuclear and renewables, where 
investment is likely to increase
Continue to develop our US business and build on our 
presence in Australia and Canada
Why is this important?
We do not want our growth to be constrained by the pace 
of growth in our traditional markets. The breadth of our 
capabilities, and the extent of our international reach, give 
us access to an exceptionally broad range of markets and 
customers. We will exploit this by increasing the focus of 
our activity in markets where opportunities are bigger and 
growth rates higher.
What are we doing?
In the past, our focus has been very much on developed 
economies. However, we recognise that demand for 
infrastructure is growing fastest in emerging economies. 
The capabilities we have brought together, particularly 
in professional services and project finance, now allow 
us to access these markets as they develop, in ways 
that offer potential for long-term growth without taking 
disproportionate risk.
But we also see further opportunities in developed 
economies. Through the acquisitions of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff and Halsall, we have increased our presence 
in markets such as Australia and Canada, and we will 
continue to build on this. 
Developed economies tend to commit a reasonably 
consistent proportion of their GDP to maintaining and 
developing their infrastructure. Over the next 10–15 years 
we expect an increase in the proportion of GDP 
committed to infrastructure as the need to renew ageing 
post-war assets becomes critical. We do, however, 
anticipate some changes in the pattern of spending. 
In the UK, for example, we expect a significant shift 
of emphasis from social infrastructure (such as schools 
and hospitals) to civil infrastructure.
In civil infrastructure markets we are developing our 
capabilities in areas that we expect to show good growth 
– including utilities such as water and power, and areas 
such as nuclear and renewable energy that will be 
boosted by developed economies’ increasing concerns 
about sustainability.
For more on areas of opportunity, see pages 24 to 27.
Through the economic downturn in many developed economies, infrastructure has proved 
to be a relatively resilient market. We maintained revenue and profit growth through the 
recession; and in the uncertain post-recovery landscape we intend to sustain our growth 
by being light on our feet. Around half our work comes from governments around the 
world, and we recognise that cutbacks in public spending may have some impact on future 
opportunities in some of our markets. However, this will be offset by growth elsewhere – 
and we now have the resources to go where we see the greatest opportunities.
strategic review
2 Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities
How are we performing?
Revenue
1
 in higher growth markets
+32%
1
  Including joint ventures and associates. Annual report and accounts 2010 17
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
New opportunities that change lives South Africa
Parsons Brinckerhoff is working as half of a joint PB/
Eskom team providing the engineering and project 
management. Currently at the height of the project, 
the team involves 320 staff from the UK, US, and South 
Africa, overseeing a daily workforce of close to 9,000.
Medupi will change lives. Domestic living conditions 
will be far more comfortable. It will advance the country’s 
socio-economic objectives and other countries will also 
receive power from Medupi.
Medupi will use supercritical boiler technology to produce 
cleaner emissions than traditional coal-fired power 
stations. To preserve scarce water supplies, it will use 
dry-cooling technology.
“ The project is fuelling an economy. We are providing 
unprecedented employment opportunities for thousands 
of South Africans. They will come away with technology, 
welding, carpentry, and supervisory and construction 
management skills that enable them to do future work 
of this kind.”
 Joe Schroedel, 
 PB’s Medupi Project Director
Powering ahead Medupi could supply 
South Africa and its neighbours from 2012.
Courtesy of Hitachi Power Africa
Like many emerging economies, South Africa anticipates steeply rising 
demand for electricity – driven by population growth, industrialisation, 
urbanisation and rising living standards. With its existing power stations 
now ageing, the country’s power utility, Eskom, needs to increase 
capacity rapidly. Its new Medupi power station, due to start 
commissioning in 2012, is its first new plant in 20 years. It’s massive – 
at 4,800MW it will be the world’s fourth-largest thermal power station. Customer
2015
2010
2009
3.5%–4%
3.2%
2.7%
Balfour Beatty 18
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Continue to implement procurement and back 
office initiatives
Continue the integration in Professional Services 
by increasing focus on client service, technical expertise 
and project execution, and ultimately driving performance 
in the business
Further strengthen our capabilities in markets and areas 
where we can command higher margins
Why is this important?
We operate in a competitive environment: our customers 
are large, our peers strong, and some of our markets 
adversely affected by the economic turmoil. Improving 
our profits and converting those to cash is crucial in order 
to maintain our progressive dividend policy, have capacity 
for acquisitions and demonstrate financial strength to 
qualify for long-term infrastructure projects.
What are we doing? 
After a year of integrating Parsons Brinckerhoff, we are 
confident of raising Professional Services’ profitability 
while enhancing value for customers. Improved staff 
utilisation, collaboration with the rest of the Group, and 
growing involvement in Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) contracts should lift margins
1
 from 
PB’s historic 4.5% to 6–7%.
Support Services also offers good potential for margin 
enhancement over the medium term; the mobilisation 
costs at the start of new contracts and the investment 
in capability can depress margins in the short term. 
Over time we will benefit from economies of scale in 
back office support and our investment in the National 
Operations Centre (NOC), which opened in 2010.
In Construction Services, we expect to maintain stable 
margins over the medium term, as cost efficiencies and 
economies of scale from collective procurement are 
potentially offset by revenue growth in the US – where 
contractual models present more predictable, but also 
lower returns than in the UK.
In order to underpin these margins, this year we have 
put into action initiatives in procurement and back office 
that aim to achieve £30m p.a. of gross efficiency savings 
by the end of 2012, £20m of which we expect to flow 
through to the bottom line. 
As a Group, we believe we have the potential to lift our 
overall margin
1
 from 3.2% in 2010 to 3.5–4% over the 
next four to five years.
1
  Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 
as a percentage of revenue including JVs and associates.
Balfour Beatty has been through a period of expansion in the last five years – entering 
new geographies and adding complementary capabilities – much of this through sizeable 
acquisitions. We have now created a platform that offers scope for improving operational 
performance and profitability by using our resources in a more cost-effective manner. 
Moreover, the increasing prominence of professional and support services in our business 
mix is creating opportunities to enhance Group margins further. 
3 Improve operational performance and cost-effectiveness 
strategic review
How are we performing?
Group operating margin
1 NOC
Helpdesk
Annual report and accounts 2010 19
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Our UK facilities management business is growing fast. In a competitive market, 
it aims to differentiate itself through expert business integration and continuous 
investment in customer service. Its new 24/7 National Operations Centre (NOC) 
in Manchester takes it a big step forward.
Enhanced customer service builds wider margins UK
With around 100 key accounts, our business had too many 
systems and processes, and inconsistent management 
information. The NOC, opened in April 2010, is enabling 
it to bring the management and administration of most 
of these contracts together on one site – sharing best 
practice, standardised and streamlined processes 
and a common IT platform to provide a simplified and 
improved customer service. The result: unified risk 
management and increased efficiency, delivering a 
winning combination of higher margins with enhanced 
customer service and responsiveness.
“ Our investment in the NOC will pay back rapidly 
through increased efficiency alone. It also gives us 
the resources to bid for larger and more complex 
contracts and the data to price more effectively.”
 James Janion, 
 NOC Operations Director
Operations centre Up to 200 staff will 
be working in the NOC by the end of 2011. Balfour Beatty 20
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Improve our technical teams by transferring our skilled 
labour force between geographies and adding more 
skill where necessary
Develop management platforms to aid collaboration 
and delivery to customers
Leverage Parsons Brinckerhoff’s customer relationships 
in emerging markets into other parts of the business
Why is this important?
Wherever they are, our customers own and operate 
complex assets. Their business and operational needs are 
increasingly complex, and in most cases the environment 
in which they operate is challenging. Our infrastructure 
expertise, knowledge of the local market and ability 
to understand – and meet – complex needs gives us 
competitive advantage. So we aim to keep enhancing 
the range and depth of our capabilities, and our ability 
to deliver them seamlessly across the Group.
What are we doing?
Whether delivering one or more of our capabilities to a 
customer, we are increasingly adding value by leveraging 
technical expertise from another part of the Group. 
We are doing this at Heathrow Airport’s Terminal 2B, by 
bringing in specific expertise from Parsons Brinckerhoff’s 
US airports team – a key to winning the project’s £460m 
second phase recently. Similarly, PB is an important part 
of Construction Services’ ambitions in the new nuclear 
and offshore wind markets. 
More and more customers want us to reduce interface 
and delivery risk on complex activities by integrating the 
supply chain as well as the other stakeholders such as 
owners, users and regulators that impact the project. 
We are now showing world-class ability to pull together 
the resources of our customers and the wider supply 
chain to deliver a new asset or operate an existing one. 
This is particularly evident in public-private partnerships 
where we combine skills in development, financing, 
construction, operation and maintenance – as in the 
Denver rapid transit P3 project described on page 39.
By bringing skills together we are also creating wholly 
new possibilities. In 2010, we announced the creation 
of an infrastructure funds management business. 
This is a logical expansion of the capability we have 
in Infrastructure Investments and Professional Services 
and is expected to generate additional income for us.
We believe our customers turn to us, first and foremost, for our technical expertise. 
But increasingly, it is necessary to combine the power of our technical expertise with 
our local knowledge, our ability to integrate all stakeholders as well as the supply chain, 
and to do this on a Group-wide scale to manage complexity for our customers. 
strategic review
4 Continue to strengthen core skills 
How are we performing?
Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff
 No.1
in the Road & Highway, Bridge,  
Airport and Mass-Transit categories
 No.2
in the Design-Build category
 No.3
in the Storm-Water category
Source: Roads and Bridges magazine. Annual report and accounts 2010 21
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Airport operator BAA invests over £1bn each year in developing its airports, and is 
one of the UK’s most innovative infrastructure clients. It is now taking a less hands-on 
role in complex projects, trusting selected ‘framework suppliers’ like Balfour Beatty 
to integrate programmes and co-ordinate relationships between all its stakeholders.
Integrating capabilities saves time and cuts costs UK
Track record Balfour Beatty has delivered projects 
successfully for BAA over a long period of time.
“ Long-term business relationships are built on 
respect and responsibility, to which Zero Harm 
is fundamental. Our BAA relationship has matured 
to a position where, for example, we chair the 
Employment and Skills Working Group for BAA’s 
Sustainability Forum that represents BAA and all 
its other suppliers.”
 Steve O’Sullivan, 
 Balfour Beatty’s BAA Framework Director
10%
Faster than any 
equivalent project
£585m
Value of project
We have a long record of successfully delivering projects, 
large and small, at all BAA’s airports. 
In the past, our operating companies contracted separately 
with BAA. Now, on major contracts such as the Terminal 
2B project at Heathrow, Balfour Beatty works together as 
one team. 
Terminal 2B is a £585m phased project designed to create 
a new 16-stand satellite pier. Six of these stands were 
handed over in 2010 in the first phase of the development. 
Five Balfour Beatty operating companies are working 
closely together, combining our capabilities from 
professional services, through the engineering process 
and into the final construction solution. 
In 2010, we were awarded the second phase of the 
project, a £460m design and build contract that will 
deliver the remaining 10 new aircraft gates by late 2013. 
We have developed our initial scheme design and shared 
significant cost reductions with BAA. Target
2010
2009
0.10*
0.16
0.17
Target
2010
2009
38.5
†
42.8
36.3
Balfour Beatty 22
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Roll out our Code of Conduct to our joint venture 
businesses and site-based staff – and work to embed 
our values in our global supply chains
Launch an online sustainability course for all staff 
Continue to work towards our 2012 roadmap targets for 
people management, Zero Harm, energy and carbon 
reduction, waste reduction, materials sustainability and 
water conservation.
For more information on our sustainability performance, 
see pages 62 to 69.
Why is this important?
Our reputation is our livelihood. As we grow and are 
joined by more people, as a result of organic growth 
and acquisitions, we need a clear culture and values 
that enable everyone to make decisions that consistently 
protect both our finances and our reputation. 
Given rising global concern over corruption, companies 
that are seen to have the highest ethical standards have a 
clear competitive advantage. And emerging anti-corruption 
legislation, which has global reach, makes ethical rigour 
an essential part of risk management.
What are we doing?
In 2009 we published a roadmap – setting out where we 
want to be by 2020 on 31 sustainability issues. Since then 
we have been embedding our sustainability vision across 
the business. 
Our Code of Conduct has been issued across the Group. 
Nearly 28,000 people have completed the ethics training 
course to support the Code of Conduct.
The Code sets standards consistent with the new UK 
Bribery Act, but we have taken additional measures in 
high-risk areas. Every operating company has at least one 
compliance officer to help management ensure compliance.
In pursuit of our goal of Zero Harm by 2012, we ran 
training programmes for 369 leaders across the Group 
in 2010 and plan to reach 600 by the end of 2011. 
We trialled new management tools for distribution in 
2011 and moved more health and safety experts into 
our operating companies to drive progress.
We aim to attract talented people. In 2010, we were 
ranked 40th in Fortune magazine’s 100 Best Places to 
Work
®
 in the US. In the UK, Management Today’s 2010 
Most Admired Companies placed us top in our sector 
for the fifth year running and 22nd overall. We launched 
new apprenticeship schemes and rolled out a framework 
of values and behaviours that we seek from our present 
and future leaders.
Leadership is not just about having the biggest market share. If we want to be seen as 
‘the infrastructure business’, we need to act like a leader – setting the industry standard 
for ethics, safety, sustainability, and the way we treat our customers and people. We aim 
to embed ethical and sustainability thinking among our own 50,000 people and our wider 
500,000-strong community of partners, contractors and suppliers.
strategic review
5 Continue to show leadership in values and behaviour
How are we performing?
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
-6%
Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO
2
/£m revenue)
†
  10% reduction by 2012 and 50% by 2020, both against 
the 2010 baseline.
* Or lower by end 2012. Kennedy Town Station
Hong Kong University Station
Sai Ying Pun Station
Annual report and accounts 2010 23
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
In less than 10 months we have won three major contracts from 
Hong Kong’s Mass Transit Railway Corporation (MTR) – including the 
largest in its history. Together, they mean that our Hong Kong-based joint 
venture, Gammon, is building the majority of the island’s new West 
Island Line, including all three new stations and 2.2km of its 3km tunnels.
Keeping quiet about HK’s biggest metro contract Hong Kong
Unspoilt Covered conveyors take spoil to 
barges for re-use without disturbing traffic 
(or mah-jong players).
” Gammon was not awarded this project on price; 
it was because the customer liked our proposed 
methods and our track record with similar projects.”
 Brian Gowran, 
  Gammon Project Director for the Kennedy 
Town Station and Overrun Tunnel project
Why choose us? A key reason was our commitment 
to minimise the impact on neighbours, traffic and the 
environment as we carve out an underground railway 
in one of the world’s most densely populated areas. 
We will set new standards in noise and dust suppression 
by using elaborate shielding and electrically-driven 
equipment rather than diesel engines. For above-ground 
structures we have developed a self-compacting 
concrete: which means less noise. To minimise the 
impact on traffic and the environment, some 80% of 
tunnelling spoil will travel by conveyor belt to barges for 
re-use, mainly on reclamation projects within Hong Kong. 
To reduce noise and dust further, the crushers feeding 
the conveyors will be underground.
On the largest contract, we have agreed with MTR 
to share the benefits of cost savings and the cost 
of any overruns, using a target-cost contract form.
Together, the three contracts are worth over £500m – 
making the West Island Line the largest civil infrastructure 
project Gammon has ever worked on. In the past decade, 
Gammon has built more underground stations in Hong 
Kong, Singapore and Thailand than anyone. 
