 Chief Executive Officer’ s strategic review
“ In a year of transformation  
we are forming a ‘new’ Company, 
with a new leadership and a new 
culture, putting our customers  
at the heart of our business.”
Phil Bentley,  
Chief Executive Officer
A Year of Transformation 
and Growth
2014 was a year of transformation and 
growth and marked the beginning of a new 
chapter for Cable & Wireless Communications 
(CWC). We began the year operating out 
of our new operational hub in Miami, and 
ended it with the acquisition of Columbus 
International Inc.
We continue to build on our new vision and 
strategy for the business backed by our 
US$1 billion ‘Project Marlin’ investment 
programme. We began to execute a 
performance improvement plan to seize 
the opportunities we have identified in 
our industry and the markets we serve. 
We completed the sale of our Monaco 
Telecom business for US$445 million on 
20 May 2014, and through the purchase 
of Sonitel in Panama for US$41 million, added 
our first acquisition in support of our new 
Business Solutions division. Most importantly, 
at the midway point of our fiscal year, we 
announced our intention to acquire Columbus 
for US$3 billion.
I’m pleased to report that the required legal 
and regulatory approvals were met and the 
transaction closed on 31 March 2015. This 
is a transaction that transforms CWC and 
is one that will accelerate the delivery of 
our strategy across the region. Columbus 
is an outstanding business. With our 
complementary fixed line and mobile 
networks; our focus on providing the best 
customer service; and bringing together 
the skills and capabilities of our team 
members, we will be well-placed to better 
serve our customers and improve the 
Information and Communications Technology 
(ICT) infrastructure of the communities in 
which we operate.
We expect the operating synergies to be 
significant; together, the ‘new’ Company 
creates the opportunity to invest more, 
grow faster and provide an improved 
customer experience and most importantly, 
a development opportunity for our people 
that neither Company could have achieved 
on its own. 
The transaction will accelerate both our 
mobile leadership and our fixed mobile 
convergence strategies, enabling customers, 
for example, to have seamless access to 
high-quality video content as they move 
between devices and locations. The 
downloading of video content onto mobile 
phones will continue apace. In fixed line, the 
significant improvements in our networks 
along with Columbus’s broadband capabilities 
will deliver outstanding online experience, 
faster speeds and wider coverage. In video, 
the transaction brings richer content and 
better set-top box capabilities.
In terms of Business-to-Business (B2B), 
and Business-to-Government (B2G), the 
acquisition complements CWC’s larger 
footprint bringing additional national and 
international connectivity capabilities to 
better serve multinational customers, as well 
as opening up Latin America growth markets. 
These capabilities are well aligned with our 
new Business Solutions division focus. 
To ensure competition remains as robust 
as ever, we agreed to dispose of our 49% 
shareholding in Telecommunications Services 
of Trinidad and Tobago (TSTT), as well as 
certain overlapping fibre-to-the-home assets 
in Barbados.
Our strategy
 9 Our strategy for growth 
13 Our market opportunities
18 Principal risks and uncertainties
Our performance
16 Group KPIs 
22 Group financial  
performance review 
28 Regional performance reviews
Inside the strategic review 
08 Cable & Wireless Communications Aside from the corporate activity we have 
undertaken, it was pleasing to see revenue 
growth for the first time since demerger with 
further improvements in EBITDA profit, 
underpinned by successful delivery of our 
cost reduction programme.
In short, we have made good progress in 
executing our strategy and we are beginning 
to realise the full potential of our business. 
CWC is becoming a stronger Company – 
a genuine quad play operator, with strong 
market shares in the geographically-focused 
and attractive Caribbean and Latin America 
markets, backed up with significant sub-sea 
and terrestrial fibre optic networks.
I remain confident about our prospects and 
our capabilities to capture these opportunities 
to the benefit of customers, team members 
and shareholders alike.
About Columbus International Inc. 
“This is a transaction that transforms CWC, and is 
one that will accelerate the delivery of our strategy 
across the region.”
The acquisition of Columbus
Since its inception in 2004, Columbus has 
built upon its roots as a cable TV operator to a 
world-class telecommunications company 
that employs more than 3,200 team 
members, serving more than 725,000 
service subscribers in over 42 ‘on-net’ 
countries throughout the Caribbean and Latin 
America region. Marketed through its ‘Flow’ 
brand, Columbus is a leading provider of cable 
and broadband enabled services focused on 
servicing retail customers in eight countries in 
the Caribbean. As a leading provider of triple 
play services in each of its markets, ‘Flow’ 
focuses on providing its customers with 
innovative video and broadband enabled 
services that are on par or better than those 
offered in most major metropolitan centres 
throughout the world. 
Through its Columbus Business Solutions 
(CBS) brand, Columbus offers a 
comprehensive range of information and 
communications technology solutions 
including a full suite of cloud-based services 
for Small and Medium Sized Businesses 
(SMB), large enterprise and government 
clients. CBS also offers a full suite of 
commercial grade triple play services and 
value-added telecommunications and IT 
services to SMBs. Operating under the 
Columbus Networks (CN) brand, Columbus 
owns and or operates the most advanced 
multi-ring configured, sub-sea fibre optic 
cable network connecting every major 
country and territory in the Caribbean, 
Central America and northern South America. 
With the acquisition of Columbus, we have 
taken a major step towards accelerating 
growth in our Company by adding a rapidly 
growing retail triple play service provider, the 
leading sub-sea wholesale network provider 
in the region and a complementary B2B 
and B2G IT solutions company. With its 
geographically diverse operations and its next 
generation network platform built upon the 
latest technology by a highly experienced and 
entrepreneurial management team, Columbus 
propels CWC into the retail quad play business 
(advanced video, broadband Internet, IP 
telephony and data rich mobile) and adds 
meaningful scale and reach to our B2B and 
B2G businesses. We welcome the Columbus 
team members to the CWC family – we are 
better together.
Vision and Strategy
While our vision remains the same – we seek 
to deliver long-term and sustainable growth 
for shareholders through growing the lifetime 
value of our customer relationships – with the 
acquisition of Columbus we have refined our 
strategy to reflect our enhanced market 
positions and capabilities. Last year, we 
introduced four strategic objectives, which 
we have now renamed as ‘our operational 
goals’ and have added a fifth – Make the 
Company a ‘Great Place to Work’. We set out 
in the following pages how we will measure 
progress against each strategy as well as the 
risks to achievement.
To grow customer 
relationships and 
lifetime value by 
delivering unparalleled 
customer experience, 
where customers define 
‘excellence.’
We seek to deliver long-
term and sustainable 
growth for shareholders 
through growing the 
lifetime value of our 
customer relationships 
– with the acquisition of 
Columbus we have 
refined our strategy to 
reflect our enhanced 
market positions and 
capabilities.
Our Vision Our Objective 
Annual Report 2014/15 09 “The acquisition 
of Columbus accelerates 
our strategy.”
Our strategic plan continues to include the 
four strategic imperatives from 2013/14, and 
we have augmented them with an additional 
two, following the acquisition of Columbus:
 • Drive to mobile leadership
 • Fixed-mobile convergence
 • Video and content leadership
 • Grow our B2B and B2G business
 • Build a leading wholesale network
 • Make the integration a success
We set out in the following pages how we will 
measure progress against each strategy as 
measured by five operations goals, as well as 
the risks to achievement.
Investment
We anticipate that our capital 
expenditure, as a proportion of revenue, 
will be higher than the historical average 
in the coming financial year 
Investment
Consistent with our vision and strategy, 
2014/15 saw an uplift in our capital 
expenditure from US$251 million to 
US$442 million, as we delivered the first 
year of Project Marlin. The main areas of 
investment focused on: 
 • Mobile networks – We launched LTE in four 
markets and HSPA+ in all markets. Our total 
number of HSPA+ sites grew by 110%. Our 
mobile networks showed improvement 
across all parameters with eight networks 
judged as ‘best-in-class’ based on 
international benchmarks. We have more 
work to do in terms of mobile network 
performance in our larger scale markets.
 • Fixed networks – We rolled out over one 
thousand kilometres of terrestrial fibre 
optic cables across all our markets and 
passed c. 114,000 homes. Traffic on our 
fixed networks grew 31% as we drove our 
fixed-mobile convergence strategy to most 
efficiently deliver data to customers. We 
saw our ‘production cost’ of data fall 38% 
measured by ‘cost per gigabit carried’ as 
we improved our delivery efficiency.
Phil Bentley,  
Chief Executive 
Officer 
continued
Chief Executive Officer’ s strategic review continued
Our business model 
is based on providing 
customers with 
communications, 
information and 
entertainment services, 
at a price which delivers 
value to them, while 
enabling our Company 
to make a fair return 
for our shareholders.
1. Grow top 
line revenue
2. Maintain cost  
efficiency and 
EBITDA growth
3. Make the 
Company 
‘A Great Place 
To Work’
4. Deliver unparalleled customer experience
5. Increase returns on capital
Our Business Model  Our Operational Goals 
10 Cable & Wireless Communications
