 Balfour Beatty 24
Focused on strong,  
growing markets
market review Fro m the chieF operating oFFicer
“Balfour Beatty’s positioning as a global infrastructure 
business provides a sound platform for growth. 
It gives us access to a diversity of markets that share 
very similar needs for skills and resources. On this 
platform, we have built a business model that has 
competitive advantage in both developed and 
emerging markets.”
Andrew McNaughton 
Chief Operating Officer Annual report and accounts 2010 25
As GDP grows, there are more resources available 
for infrastructure investment. In turn, investment in 
infrastructure is one of the best ways of stimulating 
growth in the economy. Governments recognise the 
significance of this virtuous circle – as evidenced by 
the Hong Kong Government’s infrastructure stimulus 
spending and the UK Government’s support for major 
transportation projects such as Thameslink and Crossrail. 
Moreover, infrastructure markets are relatively stable. 
The chart below shows that civil infrastructure spending 
in the US, for example, has taken a fairly constant share 
of GDP over almost 30 years, compared with the much 
more volatile pattern of housing investment.
Infrastructure demand is relatively stable
US construction spending
Emerging economies offer particular opportunity
The correlation between infrastructure investment 
and GDP growth means that fast-growing emerging 
markets will see particularly strong infrastructure 
growth. In countries such as India, already-high GDP 
growth is being outstripped by the rise in infrastructure 
investment – see below.
In developing economies, infrastructure is growing 
even faster than GDP
Civil infrastructure spending in India
It is important to note the significant differences between 
developed and emerging markets. 
Much of the developed world’s infrastructure was put 
in place many years ago. The key growth drivers today 
include the sustainability and green agendas, and the 
need to renew ageing assets that were built 40 or more 
years ago.
Infrastructure is a good business to be in
It offers a broad spread of opportunities throughout the 
world, across a range of sectors. It promises long-term 
growth, propelled by powerful factors such as population 
growth, urbanisation and the need to renew ageing 
assets. It involves both public and private sectors. 
And across all its diversity of opportunities, it relies 
on a remarkably similar set of core competencies 
and processes: asset knowledge, risk management, 
commercial management and supply chain integration.
Our chosen marketplace comprises the assets and 
systems that all societies need in order to function 
and develop. We group these into two broad categories:
Civil infrastructure – road, rail and air transport networks, 
and the utility systems that bring people power, water 
and communications
Social infrastructure – which includes education and 
healthcare facilities, and social and military housing. 
Around the world the ownership of these assets varies 
considerably, with the private sector increasingly taking 
a more significant role.
Our confidence in the future is underpinned by three firm 
beliefs: that infrastructure is a strong and growing global 
market; that emerging economies offer particular 
opportunity for growth; and that infrastructure investment 
in the UK and the US remains very much on the agenda.
Our overall conclusion is that in the infrastructure markets 
where we operate, the adverse impacts of the global 
economic crisis will be limited with good prospects for 
the next five years.
A strong, growing global market
Based on the available forecasts of global infrastructure 
investment, we expect total spending to exceed 
£20 trillion between 2010 and 2020. As the map on 
page 2 indicates, growth rates are expected to be highest 
in the fast-developing markets of Asia, Australia, South 
America, Africa and the Middle East; but even in the more 
mature economies of North America and Europe, we 
expect healthy growth rates of 3.5–4.0%.
What underpins this growth is the close interdependency 
between infrastructure spending and GDP – illustrated 
clearly by the chart below.
Infrastructure and GDP grow hand in hand
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Investment growth %
GDP growth %
0
3
6
9
12
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
Source: World Bank. Figures are for 1960–2008 and 
based on US$ at PPP. Investment is Gross Fixed Capital Formation.
India
China
Share in GDP %
Housing Civil infrastructure
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2009
Source: US Census Bureau.
Share in GDP %
0
0.5
1 .0
1 .5
2.0
2.5
3.0
1970
1985
1980
1975
1990
1995
2000
2005
2009
Source: Balfour Beatty analysis. Balfour Beatty 26
UK social infrastructure spending will fall, 
but to a level above historical levels
Education spending Health spending 
in the UK in the UK
Meanwhile, cuts in social infrastructure spending are 
likely to be balanced by growth in civil infrastructure. 
Although central government intends to cut back 
civil infrastructure investment, we expect the private 
sector utilities to offset this with their programmes 
of significantly increased investment in power station 
replacements, offshore wind farms, new waste 
management assets and other green initiatives. 
Recent announcements such as the Infrastructure 
Investment Plan and the government’s changing 
attitude to delivery of energy from waste have also given 
us confidence that investment in infrastructure will be 
higher over the next five years than in the previous five.
We expect the impact of government cutbacks on the 
overall UK infrastructure market to be relatively modest 
with civil infrastructure growing by some 20% over the 
next five years – see chart below. 
Dynamics are changing in the UK
UK civil infrastructure spending
In emerging markets the most salient factors are population 
growth, rapid urbanisation and sharply-increasing GDP per 
capita, creating demand for more and better infrastructure.
By contrast, we have seen flat or even declining power 
consumption per head in the UK. Not that infrastructure 
investment is faltering – far from it. In developed 
economies, the key drivers are not so much burgeoning 
demand as crumbling supply and sustainable energy. 
The post-war infrastructure boom tailed off in the late 
1960s, and since the 1980s spending has been a roughly 
constant proportion of GDP. But as much of the post-war 
infrastructure approaches the end of its life, replacement 
activity is adding new impetus to the infrastructure market. 
Another important difference between developed and 
emerging markets is the balance between civil and 
social infrastructure. Emerging markets tend to devote 
a higher proportion of expenditure to civil infrastructure 
as transport and distribution networks are built and 
expanded. In developed economies, where these 
networks are largely in place, social infrastructure such 
as schools and hospitals takes a significantly higher 
share of total spend.
Balfour Beatty operates in both developed and emerging 
markets. This will not change; but the sheer scale 
of opportunity means that we shall seek to increase 
our engagement with faster-developing economies. 
The access that Parsons Brinckerhoff’s business gives 
us to these markets was a key consideration in the 
rationale for acquiring the company.
Growth at home is still on the agenda
While our international operations have been growing 
rapidly, the UK still accounts for some 50% of our 
revenue. Following the new UK Coalition Government’s 
Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR) there have been 
concerns that a period of austerity in public spending 
might constrain our domestic infrastructure market. 
Our analysis indicates that this is unlikely to be the case.
Across the developed world there has historically 
been a relatively stable split between civil and social 
infrastructure expenditure. But in the UK something very 
unusual happened after 1997: the proportion of spending 
on social infrastructure grew sharply, due largely to a 
surge in spending on education. This sector has recently 
been running at levels far beyond the norm, and health 
spending has also been unusually high.
Analysing the implications of the CSR for future spending 
on education and health, we see the bubble in education 
spending coming to an end. But as the chart below 
demonstrates, education spending will still be above 
historic levels while health spending is expected to be 
largely maintained. So although there will be a reduction 
in social infrastructure spending, this will simply bring it 
closer to normal levels.
market review
Share in GDP %
0
0.2
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2014
Source: ONS and CSR.
2010-2014 Forecast period
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2014
Source: HM Treasury, 2010.
Adjusted by Balfour Beatty for CSR. Figures are in real terms.
1 Water £27bn
2 Waste £2bn
3 T ransport £54bn
4 Power £29bn
5 Comms £35bn
1 Water £28bn
2 Waste £8bn
3 T ransport ~£60bn
4 Power £57bn
5 Comms £34bn
1
1
2
3
4
5
2
3
4
5
Total
£150bn
2005/06–2009/10 2010/11–2014-15
Total
£186bn Annual report and accounts 2010 27
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
We are among the top US construction players in our 
field. But our peers are heavily concentrated on their 
domestic market: we have far greater international 
presence and a broader range of capabilities. 
In Europe, our construction peers have scale, broad 
geographical reach and strong knowledge and capability 
in infrastructure investment. But none comes close 
to our scale and capability in professional services.
These differences – particularly our strength in 
professional services – give us an edge in both 
developed and emerging markets.
Strong in developed and emerging markets
In developed economies asset owners are generally 
experienced and well regulated. They make informed 
judgements on outsourcing and on partnerships with 
third-party investors. Typically they are building new 
infrastructure to replace life-expired assets or extend 
capacity. Development constraints and an intricate 
web of stakeholders result in highly complex solutions. 
Countries such as these need companies with the skills 
to design, integrate, deliver and maintain large, complex 
assets. They also need innovative financing solutions to 
support the delivery of major capital programmes. In the 
UK’s recently published national infrastructure plan, for 
example, private funding is seen as key to the delivery 
of a £200bn programme.
By contrast, emerging economies are building new 
infrastructure primarily to help their communities develop. 
Projects as well as procurement methods are typically 
less structured. Business conditions can be challenging 
and attitudes to safety and the environment may be lax. 
Local skills are typically focused on construction while 
strategic and detailed planning skills are in short supply, 
along with the technical capability to deliver engineering 
solutions that suit the local environment. 
These countries benefit from working with companies 
that can help governments, developers and global 
finance organisations to develop and deliver long-term 
programmes of infrastructure investment. The benefit 
is greater if these companies apply their construction 
knowledge and technical expertise to supplement and 
develop the skills in the local supply chain. To sustain 
their rapid growth over time, these countries will also 
need increasing access to expertise in infrastructure 
project development and finance.
Our multi-capability business model gives us the 
expertise to meet the needs of both developed 
and emerging economies, and to evolve our service 
to them as they mature. Our scale and international 
footprint give us the depth of resource to respond 
to global markets and to pursue the most attractive 
opportunities as they emerge.
Structured for competitive advantage
If, as we believe, infrastructure is a good business to be in, 
where does Balfour Batty fit in the competitive landscape?
Traditionally, infrastructure markets have been served 
by single service businesses in fields such as design, 
programme management, project development, finance, 
construction, operations and maintenance. Yet these 
businesses share not only common customers but also 
many core skills and processes. Building on these core 
skills, we have set out to establish a business that can 
deliver a full range of services to owners and operators 
across the whole spectrum of infrastructure assets.
Today, Balfour Beatty is one of the largest global 
infrastructure players. All of our principal competitors 
can mobilise extensive capabilities and resources to 
satisfy the demands of major infrastructure delivery 
programmes; all can deploy skilled staff with deep 
knowledge and experience. Most can deploy their 
capabilities across a broad geographic base. But the 
distinctive combination of attributes that make Balfour 
Beatty stand out are its sharp focus on infrastructure 
combined with its international reach, and professional 
services and financing capabilities.
Balfour Beatty is a global infrastructure business
Some of our peers in our markets
Our strength in infrastructure is underpinned by global 
capability in professional services. We are worldwide 
experts in getting infrastructure projects off the ground: 
planning, designing and managing them. A handful of our 
competitors have larger professional services capability 
– but none of these comes close to us for overall scale 
and resources, and few have broad geographical coverage.
Compared with the leading global engineering and 
construction players in our marketplace, we have 
significantly more infrastructure-focused knowledge 
and experience.
Infrastructure
Jacobs
Vinci
Hochtief
ACS
Balfour Beatty
Skanska
Bechtel
URS
AECOM
CH2M
Fluor
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Infrastructure represents infrastructure and commercial building revenue.
Source: Engineering News Record.
Industrial Other
Revenue £bn p.a.
