 Balfour Beatty 72
Chairman’s int rodu Cti on
our Governan Ce
“ A good measure of a company 
is the stance it takes on corporate 
governance. We believe in applying 
the highest standards.”
Steve Marshall  
Chairman
Areas of focus in 2010
Adoption of new UK Corporate Governance Code
Induction of two new non-executive Directors
Remuneration review
Areas of focus in 2011
Board composition, evaluation and continuous improvement
Enhanced investor relations programme Annual report and accounts 2010 73
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Dear Shareholder
Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest standards of 
corporate governance in whichever jurisdiction the Group is operating.
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) published in 
June 2010, has been welcomed by your Board who decided to 
implement all the provisions in 2010 rather than delaying implementation 
until this year. This included a decision to put forward all the Directors 
for annual re-election at our Annual General Meeting in May 2011. 
The Code’s change of tone, signalling the importance of general 
principles guiding Boardroom behaviours, is particularly welcomed, 
as is the continuing validation of the ‘comply or explain’ principle.
Turning to each of the main principles of the Code, I wanted to 
highlight how these were being applied in practice.
Leadership and effectiveness – The formulation of the Group 
strategy, the preparation of the medium-term performance review, 
the approval of the annual budget and health and safety are key areas 
of focus for the Board during each annual meeting cycle. In addition, 
the Board undertakes a pivotal role in setting the values and the ethical 
standards the organisation employs. Further information on these 
values and ethical standards is set out on pages 65 and 66 and is 
also contained in the Company’s 2010 Sustainability Report which is 
being published this year for the first time to coincide with the release 
of this report.
In pursuing the principle that non-executive Directors should 
constructively challenge and help in the development of strategy, 
we have reviewed the way our non-executive Directors engage 
with our operating companies across the Group. For further 
information on this, I refer you to page 79 of this report.
Non-executive directors bring with them a wealth of experience gained 
from a variety of different professional backgrounds. During 2010, we 
further strengthened the Board with the appointments of Iain Ferguson 
and Robert Amen, both of whom bring with them significant 
experience of running complex international businesses, in Robert’s 
case in the US, which is an important market for Balfour Beatty. 
Accountability – The Company’s policies and procedures are 
all geared towards enabling the Board to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects. In 2010, we carried out a review of our risk management 
and assurance reporting structure to ensure it properly 
accommodated the creation of the new organisational structure. 
Further details are given on pages 80 and 81.
Remuneration – Our last strategic review of executive remuneration 
was carried out in 2005 and since then, the scale, scope and 
complexity of our business has changed significantly. The acquisition 
of Parsons Brinckerhoff in late 2009 also now gives the Group a 
presence across the whole lifecycle of major infrastructure assets 
on a global basis. Although your Board considers that the 
remuneration policy has operated successfully over the intervening 
years and has helped to drive performance, we now have a very 
different organisation which competes over a range of large, complex 
and international businesses. The Remuneration Committee has 
therefore conducted a full review of the remuneration policy and has 
engaged over the past few months with the Company’s principal 
institutional shareholders. The proposals arising from this review are 
being presented to shareholders at the 2011 AGM. For more details 
on the proposed new policy, please refer to the Remuneration Report 
on pages 90 to 93 and the Notice of AGM.
Relations with shareholders – Engagement with our investors, 
amongst other stakeholders, is critically important and in recognition, 
we revitalised our investor programme in 2010 and this will continue 
to be strengthened during 2011. We appointed a Head of Investor 
Relations during the year, a new role at Group Head Office, which 
we believe will encourage even greater connection with our investors. 
One of the highlights of our investor programme in 2010 was the 
successful investors’ seminar held at the end of November which 
aimed to strengthen investors’ understanding around the Group’s 
focus on infrastructure services. Further information on our investors’ 
programme is given on pages 86 and 87.
We are also taking initiatives to build the level of shareholding 
amongst US investors in recognition that a significant proportion 
of our overall business is conducted in the US, or is driven from 
the US, through Professional Services headquartered in New York.
Steve Marshall 
Chairman
How our Board is structured
Board
Group strategy
Annual budgets and financial reporting
Interim and final dividends
Major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure
Corporate values and ethical standards
Management performance
Risk management and assurance
Audit Committee 
Financial statements
Financial controls
External auditor
Internal audit
Risk management 
and assurance
Remuneration 
Committee
 
Remuneration 
strategy and policies
Remuneration 
packages
Incentive plans
Nomination 
Committee
 
Structure and 
composition of Board
Appointment 
of non-executive 
Directors
Succession 
planning and talent 
management
Business 
Practices 
Committee
Corporate values, 
ethics and Codes 
of Conduct
Health & safety
Sustainability
Whistleblowing
Group Tender  
and Investment 
Committee
Major contract bids
Acquisitions and 
disposals
Capital expenditure
Finance and General 
Purposes 
Committee
Banking facilities and 
other arrangements
Share options
Share buy-backs
