 08 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
A STRONG 
POSITION  
TO DELIVER 
CEO’S REVIEW
Simon Thomson
Our business model is to create,  
add and realise shareholder value 
from a balanced portfolio – we aim  
to offer material growth potential 
from exploration and appraisal 
activity, supported by established 
development and production  
assets with a strong balance  
sheet behind them.
Cairn is in a strong position: we have a robust financial 
base, our North Sea development projects are on 
track, but perhaps most importantly, we are in the 
midst of an extremely promising appraisal and further 
exploration programme in Senegal, which we believe 
can create significant value for all our stakeholders  
by proving additional resource on the acreage.
Following the two world class discoveries in  
Senegal in 2014, our focus in 2015 was on evaluating 
the discoveries and drawing up work plans to take 
advantage of this exceptionally attractive opportunity. 
We are proud to have opened up a new oil province 
in Senegal and to have done so with two consecutive 
exploration well successes within such a large 
acreage position.
SIMON THOMSON
Chief Executive
14 March 2016 09 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
The ongoing drilling programme in Senegal aims  
to optimise our understanding of the resource base 
by gathering further data; and to do so as safely, 
more efficiently and at a lower cost than the initial 
exploration phase. We are building on the knowledge 
we have gained since 2014 which has enabled us to 
improve our logistics, approvals and clearances and 
overall drilling performance. We have also built on 
our excellent onshore HSE record and extended  
that into the offshore environment, working closely 
with the drilling contractor and service companies. 
Drilling time on the campaign to date is ahead  
of expectations.
Whilst the low oil price environment clearly presents 
challenges to our industry, it also creates a time of 
opportunity for Cairn with the oil field services 
market having been reshaped following the dramatic 
fall in the oil price. This has allowed us not only to 
secure markedly better pricing but also improved 
and more dependable levels of service as the supply 
constraints on oilfield service firms’ human resources 
and equipment have been sharply reduced.
Cairn is a focused operator; we move quickly and  
will continue to bring pace to the Senegal investment 
where we have been operational for three years.  
In 2014, we drilled two successful exploration wells 
and farmed down to improve our risk and equity 
profile. In 2015, we submitted an ambitious plan to the 
government, secured a Presidential Decree extending 
the Petroleum Sharing Contract by the requested 
three years from Q1 2016, completed a 3D seismic 
programme and commenced a firm three-well 
appraisal programme. In Q1 2016, we announced 
results from two of those follow up appraisal wells 
which completed operations in January and March.
Following the first appraisal well (SNE-2), Cairn’s  
2C resource estimate for the SNE field has now 
increased by 20 percent to 385 million barrels. The 
positive results of the recent SNE-3 appraisal well 
are being evaluated and, in combination with ongoing 
activity, provide the potential for further revisions to 
resource estimates for the SNE field. The third well 
(BEL -1) commenced operations in March. 
The current programme will increase our 
understanding of existing discoveries, as well as 
evaluate prospects and help to plan the longer-term 
development of the field. 
Alongside our activities in Senegal, Cairn has built  
an attractive mature basin position in the North Sea 
where our two key UK development projects are 
supported by a strong balance sheet to take them 
through to first oil and deliver the cashflows that will 
sustain our balanced portfolio over the longer term. 
Catcher remains on schedule and under budget  
to date and Kraken is also on schedule and under 
budget with forward capex costs reduced by more 
than ten percent. We continue to build our North 
Sea portfolio and we were pleased to be awarded 
five new Norwegian licences in Q1 2016, including 
our first as Operator . 
We are taking full advantage of the lower industry 
cost environment as we shape the business for the 
future. We continue to actively assess new ventures 
within the context of our balanced offering whether 
they be potential additions to our portfolio of future 
exploration opportunities or cash flow generating 
assets where we believe the current oil price 
environment gives us the potential to add  
material value. 
In reviewing new investment opportunities  
we maintain strict economic assessment parameters 
to ensure that we continue to optimise our capital 
allocation in a lower oil price environment.
Finally, international arbitration proceedings have 
commenced with the Government of India to seek 
resolution of the ongoing retrospective tax dispute. 
Our claim also seeks to recoup in full the value of 
which we have been deprived, approximately US$1 
billion. The total assets of the Cairn subsidiary against 
which the Indian T ax Authorities are seeking to pursue 
a tax claim are US$477m, including primarily the 
group’s ~ 10% shareholding in CIL and any recovery 
by the authorities would be limited to these assets.
“ Following the two world class discoveries  
in Senegal in 2014, our focus in 2015 was on  
evaluating the discoveries and drawing up work 
plans to take advantage of this exceptionally 
attractive opportunity.” 
