 “ Cable & Wireless Communications is 
evolving into a more efficient, focused 
Group, putting customers at the heart 
of our business, served by a more robust 
network infrastructure.”
 
Chairman’ s review
This has been a transformational year for 
Cable & Wireless Communications (CWC). 
It was a year in which we completed the 
refocus of our operation on the Caribbean and 
Latin America; we successfully established a 
new operational hub in Miami and welcomed 
a new management team led by Phil Bentley, 
our Chief Executive Officer. We launched 
Project Marlin, our three-year plan to invest 
more than US$1 billion in our networks to 
improve customer service, and at the end 
of the year we completed the US$3 billion 
acquisition of Columbus International Inc. a 
transaction that has accelerated the execution 
of our strategy by dramatically expanding our 
scale and reach.
Our new approach has begun to show positive 
results with early signs of a return to top line 
revenue growth after a number of years of 
decline in the region. We are evolving into 
a more efficient, focused Group, putting 
customers at the heart of our business, served 
by a more robust network infrastructure. We 
are executing against our vision – to grow 
customer relationships and lifetime value by 
delivering unparalleled customer experience, 
where our customers define ‘excellence’ – 
and we have been increasing our investment 
in the business to support this strategy. The 
fundamental way we have reshaped the 
business in recent years has left us with a 
financial position and operating platform that 
we believe give us an excellent foundation for 
future growth. CWC is becoming a stronger 
Company – better equipped to serve our 
customers with better products and services, 
accelerating the new strategy we outlined to 
you last year. 
Since taking up office a little over 1 2 months 
ago, our Chief Executive Officer, Phil Bentley, 
and his team have built upon the establishment 
of the operational hub in Miami through 
introducing a far greater level of operational 
rigour. The management team has 
demonstrated its commitment to deliver 
growth in revenue, maintain cost discipline 
and improve our returns on capital, as well 
as beginning to transform the service our 
customers will receive. 
The benefits of our increased investments 
along with geographical focus have resulted 
in improved network performance to support 
mobile data growth and improved Net 
Promoter Scores (NPS), with like-for-like 
revenues increasing by 2%, reversing the 
trend experienced in recent years. Each of 
our business units contributed positively.
In addition to financial targets, our senior 
management had well-defined personal 
objectives concentrated on reshaping the 
business and creating a platform for future 
growth. Moving from our old operating model 
of a financial holding company, to one of 
operational focus through the provision of 
greater direction from the Miami operational 
hub has streamlined the division of 
responsibilities to allow markets to largely 
focus on serving their customers, whilst 
ensuring operational policies are implemented 
in a consistent way.
We continue to operate in a fiercely 
competitive environment and we still face 
challenges from the difficult economies in 
several Caribbean markets, intense mobile 
competition in Panama, and imminent 
liberalisation of the mobile market in 
The Bahamas. 
An essential part of the plan is the substantial 
increase in the level of investment in the 
business over the next two years. This 
investment is necessary to help us to compete 
better and achieve our growth agenda. Our 
capital expenditure as a proportion of revenue 
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman
04 Cable & Wireless Communications was higher this year, but the business has 
already begun to see the benefit of the 
investment through improved revenues. 
As we continue to accelerate investment in 
the business, the Company intends to maintain 
the dividend as a core element of shareholder 
returns and is recommending a dividend of 
US4 cents for the 2014/15 year. 
Board changes
Following the acquisition of Columbus, we have 
three new major shareholders, each of whom 
has proposed a Director to the Board. I am 
delighted to welcome three highly committed 
Non-executive Directors who bring with them 
both telecoms experience and extensive 
personal networks. John Risley is a Canadian 
entrepreneur who co-founded Columbus. 
Entities ultimately controlled by him own 
approximately 20% of the enlarged CWC. 
Thad York represents the private office of 
John Malone, who has ultimate control of 
an entity that owns 1 3%. John Malone is a 
well-respected figure in the worldwide cable 
industry. Brendan Paddick owns 3%. He was a 
co-founder of Columbus and as its Executive 
Chairman, led its progress from the start.
Perley McBride was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer in June 2014 replacing Tim Pennington. 
Perley brings a wealth of experience to the 
business having spent most of his career 
working for both fixed and mobile telecom 
operators as well as technology businesses.
Following the completion of the acquisition 
of Columbus, we have reduced the number 
of Executive Directors to two and with the 
transition to Miami completed, Nick Cooper, 
who has remained UK based, has now stepped 
down from the Board. Nick has served with 
distinction for nine years. He has been a 
Director since demerger and has played 
a leading role in establishing CWC as an 
independent business and in establishing Miami 
as the new operational hub.
I also welcome Barbara Thoralfsson as an 
independent Non-executive Director who 
brings valuable industry knowledge, both from 
her time as CEO of NetCom ASA in Norway and 
in her ongoing relationship with Telenor ASA.
As the former Columbus shareholders who 
received CWC shares are required to vote at 
all shareholder meetings in line with the 
recommendation of the Board for an initial 
period (subject to certain limited exceptions), 
under the Listing Rules and the City Code, the 
Directors are subject to additional restrictions, 
including on their ability to trade shares, as 
described in more detail in the Directors’ and 
corporate governance report on pages 55 
and 56.
Our approach
Our infrastructure and services play an integral 
role in the communities we serve. We always 
seek to take an active part in our community, 
through supporting local causes, and being an 
employer of choice. Together with our new 
team members from Columbus we will 
redouble these efforts since we are aware of 
our social responsibilities and the role we play 
as a corporate citizen. We aim to maintain the 
highest standards of ethics and good 
governance and monitor this closely through 
a series of both internal and external controls. 
We have set out more information on our 
approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 
and Sustainability on pages 38 to 41 of 
this report.
The Board has approved this Annual Report 
and Accounts as being a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of CWC’s position 
and prospects.
This has been one of the most important 
chapters in CWC’s long history. It has been 
supported by all our team members with 
their hard work, dedication, energy and 
professionalism. 
I am confident they will ensure that we 
continue to deliver a great service to our 
customers and meaningful benefits in the 
communities in which we operate. I would like 
to express my thanks to them for everything 
they have done and the foundations they have 
now laid to make the combined Group even 
more successful. 
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman
 
Our mission: 
Connecting Communities...
Transforming Lives
Annual Report 2014/15 05 Strategic Review
Find out how we are delivering 
our strategy through increased 
investment
8- 1 7  Chief Executive Officer’s 
strategic review
1 1  Our strategic imperatives
1 3  Our market opportunities
16-17 Group KPIs
1 7  Our performance
18-21 Principal risks and uncertainties
22-27  Group financial performance review 
28-29 LIME performance review
30-31 Panama performance review
32-33 The Bahamas performance review
34-35 Seychelles performance review
36-41  Corporate responsibility and 
sustainability
Our year of transformation and 
growth was marked by several 
major investments. We embarked 
on Project Marlin, a US$1 billion 
investment-led strategy to upgrade 
our networks across the region. 
In Panama, we made an important 
acquisition, acquiring Sonitel, an 
IT integration company, in a bid to 
strengthen our Business-to-Business 
operations. In November 2014, 
we announced the US$3 billion 
acquisition of Columbus 
International Inc. which was 
completed on 31 March 2015
06 Cable & Wireless Communications We provide seamless 
mobile, broadband, video 
and voice services with our 
next generation network.
Annual Report 2014/15 07
