 05 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
With a vision for sustainable and steady economic 
growth, the government has maintained stable legal 
and fiscal frameworks which encourage investment in 
the region and which support the future development 
of the Cairn project. 
The Board of Directors met in Dakar in 2015 and 
visited the rig, port and local office; meeting the 
in-country Cairn team along with the shore base 
operation. Dakar is an attractive and exciting place  
to operate as we focus on achieving commerciality 
from our two back-to-back discoveries.
Our approach in Senegal is consistent with Cairn’s 
strategic delivery in recent years; we are a highly 
experienced operator with a focus on health and 
safety and providing benefit to the communities  
in which we operate. Central to this are the strong 
partnerships we form with industry and government 
alike. The Board saw first hand not only the size and 
scale of opportunity in Senegal, but also the strength 
and depth of the team managing the project. The 
Joint Venture (JV) in Senegal brings many capabilities 
that are being applied to the existing exploration and 
appraisal programme and will also benefit future 
development. Importantly, the JV shares a common 
and universal commitment to health, safety, security, 
environment and sustainable development. Cairn  
is very familiar with operating at this stage of an 
emerging hydrocarbon province where there  
is a national desire to move steadily forward to 
hydrocarbon production whilst safeguarding the 
interests of local communities and the environment. 
We welcomed two new independent non-executive 
Directors to the Board in 2015 – Keith Lough and 
Peter Kallos – who both have a wealth of experience 
in the oil and gas industry and in the wider energy 
and resources sector . During the year , we undertook 
an external evaluation of board performance and 
effectiveness with a number of improvements 
identified. I would like to recognise and thank all  
our employees and contractors for their effort, 
commitment and hard work in 2015 in what has 
been a very busy year , as we look forward to an 
exciting year ahead.
HIGHLIGHTS
Financial
 – US$603 million (m) Group net cash at 31 December 2015.
 – Reserve Based Lending bank facility remains undrawn; debt availability  
to fund UK development assets increasing with project progress, with 
availability expected to reach US$335m at peak and US$260m by 2017; 
additional US$175m available in the form of Letters of Credit.
 – A total of 49.5 mmboe booked as 2P reserves and 196.5 mmboe  
booked as 2C Contingent Resources on a net working interest basis  
at 31 December 2015. 
Exploration – Senegal
 – Cairn resource estimates of the SNE- 1 discovery in the Sangomar Deep 
Offshore block upgraded following the incorporation of SNE-2 well results to:
 – P90 (1C) increased by 30% to 200 mmbbls;
 – P50 (2C) increased by 20% to 385 mmbbls; 
 – P10 (3C) increased to 690 mmbbls.
 – Successful testing of SNE-2, the first appraisal well with positive results, 
announced in January 2016.
 – Successful testing of SNE-3, the second appraisal well, announced in 
March 2016. 
 – BEL -1 exploration well commenced operations in March 2016. 
 – Resource upgrade does not include results of the SNE-3 appraisal well where 
data analysis is ongoing. Any further resource revisions following full analysis 
of the results of SNE-3 and BEL - 1 will be announced in due course. 
North Sea
 – Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North Sea on track for  
first oil from 2017 .
 – Additional 4.5% interest in Kraken acquired, after the year end,  
from First Oil bringing Cairn’s total working interest to 29.5%.
 – Peak net targeted production to Cairn for North Sea interests  
of ~ 25,000 boepd. 
 – Five new licences awarded in Norway in Q1 2016, including one  
as Operator. 
 – Kraken West, UK North Sea (EnQuest Operator, Cairn 29.5% WI) 
appraisal well confirmed the presence of oil with potential for upside. 
Further evaluation is ongoing.
 – Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea (Wintershall Operator, Cairn 20% WI) 
was a dry well. Operations were completed in Q2 and the well was 
permanently plugged and abandoned. 
India Tax Dispute
 – International arbitration proceedings have commenced to settle  
the Indian tax dispute, with Cairn claiming full compensation for  
the ~US$ 1 billion value of which its shareholders have been deprived.
 – The total assets of the Cairn subsidiary against which the Indian Tax 
Authorities are seeking to pursue a tax claim are US$477m (including 
principally the group’s ~ 10% shareholding in Cairn India Limited) and  
any recovery by the Indian authorities would be limited to such assets.
