 Design and PM¹      Civils      Track      
Power²      Signalling      Rolling stock
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0
Total Middle East
& Africa
Rest of
America
Eastern
Europe
CIS NAFTA Asia
Paciﬁc
Western
Europe
98.4 3.8 4.0 5.5 7.2 21.1 26.8 29.9
¹  Project management.  
²  Includes power and electriﬁcation. 
Spend £bn pa
Chief Operating Officer’s review
A route to lasting 
customer confidence
“ We have accelerated the 
international reach of our 
business and increased our 
focus on markets where 
demand is expanding faster.”
Andrew McNaughton
Chief Operating Officer
Source: Association of the European Rail Industry (UNIFE) projections.
For more information go online: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com 
Total annual spend on rail infrastructure 2015 (£bn)
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 24
Our business Our approach – sharing knowledge and innovating
For more discerning customers, our broad capabilities and 
collective asset knowledge are powerful competitive strengths. 
But the key to adding real value for them is the ability to share and 
deploy our knowledge effectively – so that, for example, what we 
learn from operating and maintaining existing assets informs the 
way we design new ones. We have made world-class knowledge 
management a strategic priority – one reason why we have 
become leaders in seeking to maximise the technological 
capabilities offered by tools such as Building Information 
Modelling (“BIM”), as described on page 18. 
BIM also facilitates the innovation that customers expect from us 
and we have moved to enhance our skills in this important area. 
We see a culture of innovation as another competitive strength, 
addressing it systematically through three linked initiatives.
Innovation as One aims to make us a leader in integrated 
solutions by joining our strengths with those of our partners and 
supply chains. Focused on markets where this integrated approach 
will deliver disproportionate value to clients, it launches in 2012. 
Innovation Everywhere aims to develop a culture of innovation 
at every level. We are investing in tools such as BIM that will 
support this by providing insight for creating and managing projects 
faster, more economically and with less environmental impact. 
Open Innovation aims to harness the creativity of our supply 
chain and strategic partners to develop ideas that yield mutual 
benefits as well as value to our clients. 
Growth sectors – opportunity and advantage
Customers with more complex and sophisticated requirements are 
central to our main strategic goal of growing and creating value. We 
are focusing on the sectors where they are prevalent and our broad 
capabilities and asset knowledge give us competitive advantage.
Considering the infrastructure landscape in terms of complexity, 
growth potential, global leverage and our current presence, we 
see particular potential in the rail, power and mining sectors – 
plus, in some geographies, transportation and water.
Rail
In many developing markets, rapid urbanisation is fuelling a 
surge in demand for urban transit systems. At the same time, 
unprecedented growth in commodity prices has spurred an 
increase in mining activity – driving increased private sector 
investment in rail to transport commodities from mine to market. 
In major mature markets, constrained public finances are creating 
pressure to reduce public spending on rail investments, which are 
seen as desirable but costly – but this can create opportunities 
for new and innovative financing structures. 
Overall, we expect growth of £15bn in annual rail infrastructure 
spend worldwide from 2008, reaching some £100bn by 2015. 
This market is increasingly global, creating opportunity for 
international players like us to participate in emerging markets. 
But there is also rising competition from low-cost Chinese 
providers, who increasingly bring project finance with them.
The opportunity for Balfour Beatty is the trend towards 
multidisciplinary projects encompassing all elements from 
programme management; civil engineering; routine and operational 
maintenance; track and electrification; and signalling and rolling 
stock. These are increasing in proportion and offering higher 
margins. We have had considerable success in this area, with 
projects such as Denver Eagle, the recent Denmark Rail signalling 
upgrade and the welcome decision taken by the state government 
in Victoria to involve us in an upgrade of a critical section of 
Melbourne’s urban rail network.
Our strategy has built Balfour Beatty into one of the world’s largest 
players in infrastructure – a market characterised by sustained 
strong growth in both developed and emerging economies. 
Mature economies need to renew ageing assets and to adopt 
technologies that satisfy changing environmental, sustainability 
and energy security criteria. These pressures are sufficient to 
maintain moderate growth despite current economic and fiscal 
constraints. However, the pace of growth is very much faster in 
emerging markets – driven by rapidly rising populations, economic 
expansion and the more sophisticated demands of increasingly 
urbanised and affluent populations.
Our business model – focused on infrastructure
To satisfy this demand we have built – through organic growth and 
acquisitions – a Group with world-class expertise across the entire 
infrastructure lifecycle. Our capabilities extend from financing and 
designing assets to constructing, operating and maintaining them. 
This enables us to engage with asset owners at any stage in the 
life of their assets. We can also build project teams that draw skills 
and resources from across the Group. For management purposes 
we have structured our businesses into divisions representing four 
broad areas of capability: Infrastructure Investments, Professional 
Services, Construction Services and Support Services.
At present some 80% of our business is in the UK and US, 
although we have a presence in more than 80 countries around 
the world. In recent years, as the economic crisis slowed market 
growth in the US and UK, we have accelerated the international 
reach of our business and increased our focus on markets where 
demand is expanding faster.
Our customers – seeing a bigger picture 
Historically, asset owners have viewed projects in isolation and 
tendered them largely on price. But over the past decade many 
of our customers have moved to a broader view involving much 
closer engagement with us. Rather than focusing narrowly on 
building or upgrading an asset, they want to collaborate on 
achieving a desired outcome or finding the best solution to a 
challenge. They understand the risks and are willing to share them. 
Often they look to us to manage costs and share the savings.
Customers who buy a single service in a single geography still 
account for the majority of our revenue. But a growing proportion 
want to buy more than one capability and seek a combination 
that delivers a better solution and reduces interface risk between 
suppliers. They are more concerned with obtaining outcome value 
than with price per se. 
An increasing number are taking the next logical step, and looking 
beyond single projects. They want to work with partners who grasp 
the complex challenges they face; understand their true objectives; 
and deliver a solution rather than just an asset. Sharing risk related 
to outcome increasingly plays a part in our engagement with core 
customers. So where a traditional highway owner might contract 
for potholes to be repaired cost-effectively, these customers 
would seek value in outcomes such as reliable journey times with 
minimal negative impacts on external stakeholders. Equally, where 
a regulated utility provider in the water sector, for example, seeks 
reliable infrastructure performance the onus is on both parties to 
perform and share outcome risk. 
Over time we will significantly reshape our organisation, business 
model and strategic direction to satisfy these more sophisticated 
customers. Increasingly, we will be organised, managed and 
incentivised to understand their assets and needs, and to 
collaborate constructively towards better solutions. We have 
begun to foster a more customer-centred culture across the Group 
by building performance metrics, incentives and management 
around customer outcomes and delivery performance.
25 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Mining
In resource-rich countries there is synergy between rail, power 
and mining. Increased extraction activity requires power to mine 
the resources and rail to transport them. We are ideally placed to 
meet this demand – particularly since the customers are typically 
multinationals who favour suppliers that can work with them 
holistically in multiple territories.
The mining construction market is large and is growing fast 
(16% a year 2009–2012). Most projects are procured via umbrella 
Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management (EPCM) 
contracts, and the few large players capable of providing these 
services dominate the market. Parsons Brinckerhoff currently 
provides infrastructure design and project management services 
in Australia and Africa to clients on smaller projects, or as a 
subcontractor to EPCMs.
This could be a springboard to a far greater opportunity. We have 
already begun extending Parsons Brinckerhoff’s current services 
organically to new geographies and commodities, increasing the 
addressable market from US$1.1bn to US$3.4bn. Beyond this, 
as we develop our EPCM capability, we could gain access to the 
whole US$8.4bn professional services market. An integrated offer 
combining professional services with our construction capabilities 
would open the door to the related US$5.8bn rail and power 
construction markets.
Growth economies – extending our reach
Our desire to expand in these sectors draws us towards 
economically buoyant countries such as South Africa, India 
and Brazil. We have taken important steps in recent months 
in establishing a presence in both India and Brazil while further 
leveraging our footprint in South Africa where we also see 
significant opportunities. Elsewhere, in highly developed markets 
such as Canada and Australia, we have a good understanding 
of these countries and their business models. Buoyed by rising 
demand for commodities, they do present clear opportunities 
for us – while their scale, economic growth rates and market 
structures suit our model. 
Australia
Australia is an attractive market with enormous potential, founded 
on a steady economy weighted towards infrastructure. The 
Australian market already accounts for some £300m of the Group’s 
Power
Balfour Beatty’s heritage is built on this core sector. This is what 
we do – and it is no coincidence that the first construction contract 
secured by our fledgling business 102 years ago was to build a 
new generating plant and lay new track and lighting in Dunfermline, 
Scotland. Since then our knowledge and reach throughout the 
sector has continued apace. That reach is now truly international 
with major projects currently underway in South Africa, New 
Zealand, Arizona and elsewhere. Globally, this is a vast market 
with generation capacity currently totalling some 5,000GW. 
Most of this is fossil-fuelled, particularly in developing countries. 
Investment is driven by growing demand in developing markets, 
replacement of ageing infrastructure in developed markets and 
green agendas. The market opportunity is very significant: US$9trn 
of capital investment is forecast between now and 2035 – around 
US$350bn a year – with developing countries accounting for about 
60%. The technology mix is expected to see a growing proportion 
of renewables and nuclear as coal’s share reduces. 
In transmission and distribution we are already working with asset 
owners National Grid in the US; in Australia through our joint 
venture with UGL; and in Indonesia through our joint venture with 
Sakti. We intend to develop our position further in these markets.
Brazil, the largest South American market, presents significant 
opportunities. Investment totalled £400m in 2010 and is set to 
grow at 10% annually. The whole network was state owned but 
auctions have brought private companies into the market. 
India is another attractive market – the second largest in Asia. 
Annual spending on transmission is over £3bn, forecast to grow at 
12% a year to 2014. While most assets are publicly owned, nearly 
all construction and some professional services are outsourced. 
The government is encouraging PPP in transmission and six lines 
have been awarded to private companies over the past year. 
Our activities in power globally have gained momentum in recent 
years. We are now preferred bidder for two offshore wind assets 
and a waste PPP project. In addition to our partnerships in the US, 
Australia and New Zealand, we are one of three preferred bidders 
for an EDF nuclear new-build project in the UK. 
Chief Operating Officer’s review continued
0
1000
500
1500
2000
2500
3500
3000
Other 
renewables¹
Renewables:
Wind
Hydro
Nuclear
Coal
Gas
Oil
2011 existing capacity      Forecast additions to 2035
¹ Other renewables include biomass and waste, geothermal, solar PV, CSP and marine.
Current
addressable
PS market
Geography
and 
commodity
diversiﬁcation
EPCM 
roles
Total
potential
addressable
market
Additional
power
opportunities
Additional
rail
opportunities
Total
potential
addressable
market for
Balfour Beatty 
Group
1.1
3.4
8.4 8.4
12.7
14.2 14.2
5.8 1.5
4.3
5.0
2.3
8.4
Professional services      Power & rail construction 
Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2011, and Balfour Beatty estimates. Source: Balfour Beatty research.
Potential addressable mining market (US$bn) Global power generation 2011–2035 (GW)
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 26
Our business India’s long-term growth outlook is strong, buoyed by a growing 
working-age population and high domestic demand that will soon 
lift the country into the world’s top five consumer markets. 
Infrastructure spending is expected to account for 10% of GDP by 
the end of the government’s 12th Five Year Plan in 2017 – up from 
5% in the 2002–2007 Plan. If policy and regulatory reforms go 
ahead as expected, private investment’s share of the total is 
expected to rise from 30% to 50%. PPP is gaining traction – 
seen initially as a way of bringing in private funds to offset 
government shortfalls, it is now recognised as a major catalyst 
for infrastructure development.
Brazil’s GDP has recently overtaken the UK’s to rank sixth in the 
world. It now outvalues all the other South American economies 
combined. Real GDP growth is forecast at 4% a year to 2016. 
The construction market, worth US$140bn (7% of GDP) in 2011, 
is forecast to grow at a similar pace, as strong growth in 
infrastructure and mining offsets a reduction in oil and gas 
spending. The government is ramping up its own investment 
in infrastructure through its Growth Acceleration Programme. 
It is committed to US$596bn in the 2011–2014 second phase, 
compared with US$349bn in the 2007–2010 first phase.
Our “home” markets – still hold growth opportunities
In our UK and US “home” markets, demand for infrastructure 
continues to rise, albeit more slowly than in the growth markets we 
have identified. In the operating review which follows we outline 
developments in these cyclical, low-risk markets, as well as some 
of the actions taken in 2011 to reach into our newer target markets. 
The overall picture is one of continuing growth, building on our 
cash-generative core building markets. They continue to offer a 
strong platform on which to demonstrate our capabilities. Sharing 
knowledge built on our skills and experience affords a sound basis 
to pursue the opportunities we see emerging in other markets.
revenue. We have a long and proud record here with a growing 
presence reflecting a strong pipeline of work with hotspots in 
mining, power and transportation. All these projects are reliant 
on commodity markets, but are currently suffering from delays 
in the public sector. The country has a sophisticated procurement 
model including lifecycle contracts providing PPP and services 
opportunities relating to key infrastructure projects in markets 
we understand such as water, highways maintenance and rail.
The US$200bn Australian construction market accounts for 14% 
of GDP. This above-average proportion is due to significant market-
sector led infrastructure investment, which accounts for 40% of 
construction. While the public sector accounts for 60% of civil 
infrastructure spend, private customers make up 100% of mining 
spend and 50% of power spend. Annual growth rates are forecast 
at 5% to 2015, though we are mindful that this reflects commodity 
demand and the current hiatus in public spend.
Canada
We acquired Halsall, a Canadian professional services firm, in 2010 
as a base for developing a transportation and power business. 
Canada’s GDP ranks ninth in the world. Relative to other developed 
economies, its underlying fundamentals are very strong. Its 
infrastructure market is forecast to grow 3% annually to reach 
US$132bn by 2020. We see attractive drivers: a well-established 
PPP market and strong prospects in power and rail. There is a 
suitable competitive structure on the supply side and business 
ethics are excellent.
Emerging markets
In addition to these existing markets, we are targeting emerging 
economies with favourable growth dynamics – typically driven by 
economic growth, changing demographics and government-led 
market reforms. We are focusing on those with sufficient scale, 
a good competitive environment and appropriate ethical standards.
In 2011 we began making inroads into India and Brazil, our 
priority emerging markets. We already have an office in Brazil; 
in India we opened a Balfour Beatty office to complement 
Parsons Brinckerhoff’s presence and signed a memorandum 
of understanding with Tata Projects. Both countries have larger 
infrastructure markets than the UK, are welcoming private capital 
into infrastructure provision and are making determined efforts 
to eliminate endemic corruption.
Chief Operating Officer’s review continued
0
40
20
80
60
100
120
140
180
160
2007
2008
2010
2009
2011
2012
2014
2013
2015
Residential      Commercial, retail, industrial      Social infrastructure 
Economic infrastructure: transport, power, water      Oil & gas      Mining
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
US$500bn¹
US$1,000bn¹
1 Electricity
2 Roads & bridges
3 Irrigation
4 Railways
5 Water supply & sanitation
6 Ports
7 Airports
¹   Total (including other sectors such as telecom, urban, etc).
 
Source: Planning Commission, Government of India, www.infrastructure.gov.in, 
KPMG Analysis. Source: Balfour Beatty research.
Brazil construction market 2007–2015F (real US$bn) India’s infrastructure investment
11th plan (2007–2012) 12th plan (2012–2017)
27 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business
