 Real growth 
opportunities both in 
existing and new markets
Chairman’s message
View our online report at: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com
Underlying earnings per share
+9%
Underlying earnings per share
1
 
up by 2.8p to 35.5p 
(2010: 32.7p)
Dividends per share
+9%
Final dividend of 8.5p per 
ordinary share, giving a total 
dividend for 2011 of 13.8p 
(2010: 12.7p)
1
 From continuing operations, before non-underlying items.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
“ Balfour Beatty continued to 
perform strongly during 201 1. 
This was despite difficult 
trading conditions in our 
two largest markets. ”
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 10
Overview While Balfour Beatty’s core markets continue to provide the bulk 
of the Group’s revenue, the make-up of the business and its 
involvement in new areas of opportunity is also creating a sense 
of change in the way in which the business operates. This is to 
be welcomed. 
We have seen a good performance in our professional services 
business and, in turn, people here have worked hard alongside 
colleagues in other businesses to secure important pieces of work 
in areas that would not otherwise have been seen as opportunities 
for Balfour Beatty. 
This welcome development reinforces the importance of engaging 
with our customers at a very early stage in the planning process. 
Embedding greater efficiency and an effective cross-team working 
culture translates into enhanced value for customers and the 
business as a whole. In turn, this ensures we maintain a strong 
focus on sustainability and in this year’s report we have sought to 
ensure we reflect this critical area throughout the narrative. It is a 
core part of what we do and there is more information on this in 
“the way we work”.
Go to P48 – P51 for more information 
on “the way we work”
Safety continues to be an area of unrelenting attention for the Board 
and the management team, and over the course of 2012, the goal 
of delivering on our Zero Harm vision takes on an even sharper 
level of focus. 
Very significant steps have been taken to improve safety 
performance, nevertheless the fact is that the sector in which our 
business operates is one where risk remains a constant and it is 
with sadness that the Board learned of five fatalities during the 
course of the year, all of which were in our business in Hong Kong. 
Steps are being taken to address this with our joint venture partner.
As I mentioned above, the economic challenges facing our 
traditional markets continue. With these challenges it is vital that 
we maximise efficiencies throughout the Group. This will be an 
ongoing theme for the coming period. A Group-wide culture of 
efficiency is critical if our broad ambitions are to be realised.
Looking ahead
We remain confident that Balfour Beatty is well positioned to 
take advantage of the inevitable growth in long-term infrastructure 
investment, in existing as well as in new and exciting markets. It is 
clear that the proportion of work we do away from the traditional 
markets and sectors will grow, albeit in a timely and controlled 
fashion. Pace of change and momentum is also important in a 
business as diverse as ours. Management will be redoubling its 
efforts to capture Group-wide efficiencies and to accelerate market 
development plans. We will also work and collaborate ever more 
closely with our key customers, as we increasingly demonstrate 
the benefits of our Group-wide reach and capabilities, both to our 
customers – existing and prospective – and to our investors. 
We have every reason to be confident of playing a larger 
international leadership role across our chosen infrastructure 
sectors in the years ahead. Near-term market pressures are 
however likely to continue, requiring continuing focus on 
operational delivery and on increasing the contribution from 
Group-wide efficiencies.
Balfour Beatty continued to perform strongly during 2011. This 
was despite difficult trading conditions in our two largest markets.
A relentless focus on operational delivery for our customers and 
on enhancing the Group’s reputation enabled us to successfully 
deliver numerous high-profile project commitments – such as 
the Aquatics Centre for the 2012 London Olympics – and also 
to maintain a strong forward order book into 2012 and beyond. 
Efforts to accelerate the realisation of the Group’s long-term 
strategy, based on deploying and sharing our combined expertise 
worldwide, have also been a major focus. The Chief Executive’s 
review summarises these.
Go to P12 – P21 for more information on the  
Chief Executive’s review and our strategy
This combination of strategic focus and development of new 
opportunities enabled Balfour Beatty to withstand the impact of 
tough economic conditions in our two largest markets – the UK and 
US. As a result, the business at year-end was again able to report 
an order book of more than £15bn for the second successive year, 
a significant achievement given prevailing economic conditions, 
which included major cuts in public spending on both sides of the 
Atlantic. In addition, underlying profit from continuing operations 
has been resilient, as we reported year-on-year growth of £5m 
or 2%. 
As you will hear from Ian Tyler later in this report, despite the tough 
economic backdrop, there are real growth opportunities both in 
existing and new markets. Balfour Beatty is investing significant 
efforts in positioning itself to take advantage of these. As a Group, 
we operate across the infrastructure lifecycle. This gives us a 
unique insight into the performance of our customers’ critical 
assets. Progressively, this will enable us to add value to our 
customers in a way that others cannot, differentiating Balfour Beatty 
from its competitors in its chosen markets.
In 2012, the Group will be focusing on three key strategic priorities: 
delivering greater customer value, particularly via knowledge 
sharing and collaboration; seeking out superior growth market 
opportunities in developing geographies and market sectors; and 
ensuring that our operating structure is as efficient as it can be. 
You will find more on these points in Ian’s review.
Dividend
In line with its existing progressive dividend policy, the Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share. This will give 
a total dividend for 2011 of 13.8p, an increase of 9% on 2010.
The Board
Our Board has been stable throughout the year. Our most recent 
non-executive appointments, Rob Amen and Iain Ferguson, 
have contributed rapidly and strongly with Iain taking on the 
chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee during the year. 
With Balfour Beatty’s increasingly diverse global and sector 
reach, it is important that we continue to ensure the aggregated 
experience of the Board reflects the nature of these markets. We 
are still an all-male Board, and we are taking active steps to address 
this during 2012, albeit any selected Board appointment must have 
the best overall credentials to contribute, irrespective of gender.
Our people and reputation
It is our people that make this business a successful one. The 
Group’s hard-won reputation for delivering for its customers 
reflects the hard work and dedication of all of our people. I extend 
my thanks to all of them for their commitment and skill in helping 
us navigate our way through the current choppy waters.
11 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Overview
