 Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial 
Officer
Andrew 
McNaughton
Chief Operating 
Officer
Anthony Rabin
Deputy Chief 
Executive
Peter Zinkin
Planning and 
Development 
Director
Kevin Craven
Chief Executive 
Officer, Support 
Services
Manfred Leger
International 
Business director
John Moore
Chief Executive 
Officer, Rail
Our knowledge and capability 
across the infrastructure 
market differentiates us 
from our competition
Chief Executive’s review
“ As a business growing into 
new geographies and markets, 
delivering ever greater value and 
efficiency to customers, we look 
forward with confidence. ”
Ian Tyler
Chief Executive
Our executive leadership team
View our online report at: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 12
Our business Brian Osborne
International 
Business director
Mike Peasland
Chief Executive 
Officer,  
Construction 
Services UK
George Pierson
Chief Executive 
Officer,  
Professional  
Services
Robert Van 
Cleave
Chief Executive 
Officer,  
Construction 
Services US
Paul Raby
Human Resources 
director
Chris Vaughan
Chief Corporate 
Officer
Customer value 
The customers who present the biggest opportunities are large-
scale owners of complex infrastructure assets. We believe that 
increasingly, these customers need partners who can join with 
them in addressing their true goals. Typically, they are concerned 
not just with the assets themselves but with the beneficial outcomes 
those assets will deliver to the communities they serve. They need 
partners who are equipped with the experience, knowledge and 
breadth of vision to see the big picture and help them to devise 
and engineer optimal solutions. 
Our breadth of capabilities, whole-lifecycle experience and 
insight into customers’ underlying concerns give us considerable 
competitive advantage. This relies on having the knowledge 
sharing and integration capability to turn those elements into 
effective teamwork with customers. This is the way to add real 
value. Not many companies can do this. 
Operational efficiency
Generating good profits and converting them into cash is 
imperative for us. We have big aspirations for growth and we need 
to be able to fund them. Our customers embarking on a long-term, 
high-value relationship want to be sure they are partnering with a 
robust and sustainable business. And our investors expect no less. 
So we have no intention of relaxing our declared margin improvement 
targets, despite the current economic and market conditions. 
Over the past couple of years we have begun to realise substantial 
cost savings by adopting a more joined-up approach to back office 
services and procurement – another way in which we benefit from 
better integration across the Group. We are currently working on 
broadening these programmes into other support functions.
The future looks good
By addressing these three key issues – and adhering to our values 
of integrity, excellence, respect and teamwork – we can differentiate 
ourselves in ways that matter to customers. 
Our executive leadership team featured below is energised by the 
changes taking place at Balfour Beatty.
In the following pages we set out our strategic objectives and 
our progress towards them. As a business growing into new 
geographies and markets, delivering ever greater value and 
efficiency to customers, we look forward with confidence.
Our differentiation comes from collaborative thinking by drawing 
on the whole breadth of our knowledge. We start with strategic 
planning, develop through design and financing, and deliver 
construction and operation.
It is the many differences that come from daily ingenuity; our 
people working with our clients to solve the toughest problems; 
combining decades of experience with new ideas and techniques 
– all to ensure that our clients achieve ever better outcomes for 
themselves and for society.
The strategy we have been pursuing has enabled us to build a 
world-class infrastructure business with global reach. We continue 
to develop the strategy in response to changing economic 
conditions and our own constantly expanding capabilities.
Our business model and the opportunities we are pursuing are 
detailed in the Chief Operating Officer’s review on page 24.
In a more uncertain world we aim to maximise opportunities 
for continued growth by making best use of the unique mix 
of capabilities we now possess. So we are focusing on three 
key strategic areas:
Growth markets and sectors
While we continue to expand internationally, around 80% of our 
business still comes from the UK and US. Over the next 10 years, 
the infrastructure sector in those markets is expected to grow at 
an annual rate of around 4%. By contrast, the comparable growth 
in emerging markets is expected to be 10%–12%. 
Emerging economies like India and Brazil are investing significantly 
in infrastructure. Others which are rich in natural resources, such 
as Australia and Canada, have the economic firepower to procure 
large new infrastructure projects. 
We already have capability in many of these markets and have 
been stepping-up our activity. Recently, for example, we 
announced a new rail contract win in Australia, a significant new 
infrastructure project in Qatar and a partnership agreement with 
Tata Projects in India. We have strengthened both our presence 
and our senior management resources in India and Brazil.
13 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business
