 2,989
Total places 2015
2,829
Total average capacity 2015
Overview
Our failure to recruit and train staff to  
the required standards meant that we 
were unable to increase occupancy in line 
with our strategic plan. These operational 
events were compounded by weaknesses 
in our financial procedures and forecasting, 
which impacted our ability to adjust our 
cost base in a timely manner. 
Consequently, the year ended with a 
disappointing financial performance as 
revenues increased but were lower than 
expected and the impact on margins 
impacted profitability. 
During the year we became the largest 
provider of therapeutic fostering services 
through the acquisition of By the Bridge. 
Additionally, we launched a number of 
new specialist services.
Despite the disappointment of our 
financial results, we remain confident in 
the business. Cambian is a leader in the 
provision of high quality care in a market 
where there is urgent need. Our focus in 
the short-term is the ongoing remedial 
action plan to boost occupancy levels  
and to put the Group on a sound financial 
footing to enable sustainable profitable 
growth, including reviewing the Group’s 
strategic options.
Business performance
In 2015 the Group delivered revenue 
growth of 21% (2014: 12%), with an Adjusted 
EBITDA margin of 14.7% (2014: 20.1%).  
The revenue growth includes the impact  
of current and prior year acquisitions as 
well as revenue from new occupants in  
our sites. 
We did however experience a revenue  
and occupancy shortfall against our initial 
expectations, in part due to difficulties in 
recruiting sufficient skilled staff in our new 
sites and to replace normal turnover in 
existing sites, particularly in our Children’s 
Services division in the second half of the 
year. The Group’s average occupancy in 
the year was 78% (2014: 81%).
 
Going into 2015, we had budgeted a 
significant increase in costs over 2014 in 
two main areas: first, an investment in our 
central functions such as HR, Marketing 
and Quality to build an operating platform 
capable of delivering significant growth; 
and, secondly, costs relating to newly 
opened units which are incurred ahead  
of revenue from occupancy. 
With the shortfall in revenue against our 
budget, these costs impacted our profit in 
the year and, in addition, we experienced 
cost overruns in areas such as recruitment 
costs and repairs and maintenance. Our 
forecasting of costs was poor in part due  
to issues arising from the integration of  
the Cambian and Advanced Childcare 
back offices in the year. Once the revenue 
shortfall was identified, it took longer than 
expected to manage down non-wage 
costs during the year. 
Saleem Asaria 
Chief Executive Officer
The demand for Behavioural Health services 
in the UK is strong and we remain confident 
in our business, providing high quality care 
where there is urgent need.
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8
Chief Executive’s strategic review In response to this performance, we have 
taken a number of steps: 
• We commissioned 
PricewaterhouseCoopers to undertake 
a financial review of certain aspects  
of the Group’s cost management.
• We are currently implementing  
a number of remedial actions to 
improve our cost control, forecasting 
and management of our suppliers.
• We have put on hold new openings  
to focus on filling the Group’s current 
capacity from existing sites and those 
sites already in development. This will 
reduce 2016 openings to approximately 
40 net additional places allowing for 
improved margins as the portfolio of 
facilities matures. 
• We have restructured our central 
functions: we devolved our HR 
department into regional centres, 
reporting to the operating divisions  
and thereby improving the connection 
between staffing needs and our 
recruitment pipeline; we have 
disbanded our M&A and asset 
acquisition teams; and restructured  
our quality team. All of these steps  
will generate ongoing savings for  
the Group. 
• Finally, we hired Martin Hopcroft,  
who has restructuring and turnaround 
experience, in late 2015 and he was 
appointed as Interim CFO in early  
2016. In addition we have hired 
additional resource to focus on 
managing our cost base with an 
emphasis on procurement.
In 2015 we have focused on four main areas:
Delivering value for  
our customers
Investing to expand  
our specialist services
Investing in our  
internal capabilities
Improving the life 
outcomes for the 
people in our care
p.14
p.12 
p.16 
p.18
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
Strategic report • Thirdly, we aligned our management, 
training and therapeutic capabilities to 
these services. 
In line with these areas of focus, Cambian 
has grown its capacity significantly in the 
year, adding a total of 377 places. With  
56 places being closed or re-provisioned, 
we added a net 321 places in the year 
including 259 in our Children’s Services  
and 62 in our Adult Services. 
With a focus on maturing our existing 
business, our growth plan for 2016 is 
restricted to completing units that are 
currently in construction, so we anticipate 
adding approximately 40 net new places  
to capacity in the year.
Children’s Services
The focus of our growth plan in the year  
was in the Children’s division.
We increased our education services 
significantly, in particular adding three 
large schools: Bletchley, Spring Hill and 
Potterspury Lodge (with a combined 
capacity of 166 places). These offer 
Service delivery
The demand for Behavioural Health 
services in the UK remains strong, driven  
by underlying trends of a higher incidence 
and better diagnosis of conditions, 
together with greater quality of life 
expectations for those people impacted.  
In addition, HM Government continues  
to outsource such services, with high 
expectations for the quality of service 
provided and the outcomes expected. 
In order to ensure that we are well-
positioned to take advantage of these 
market dynamics we made significant 
changes in 2015:
• First, we moved to a greater 
specialisation and delineation of our 
services (for example in Autism and 
Personality Disorders). 
• Secondly, we continued our move to 
higher severity services (for example for 
children who have suffered from sexual 
exploitation or abuse, or children and 
adolescents suffering from mental  
health conditions).
significant opportunity for future revenue 
growth as we build occupancy and focus 
their offerings on higher value services  
to address more acute needs. We have 
also grown our Children’s residential 
services, in particular for children 
suffering from abuse or neglect or  
with mental health conditions. 
We have previously highlighted fostering  
as an area that we wished to grow. To this 
end, we were pleased to acquire By the 
Bridge in March 2015. By the Bridge operates 
at the high-severity end of fostering and has 
built a reputation for providing high quality, 
therapeutic fostering services and for 
successfully placing children with complex 
needs in a family environment. As such,  
it occupies a niche position between 
traditional fostering and residential care and 
now forms an integral part of our Children’s 
Services offering. Cambian’s existing 
fostering operation has been integrated  
into By the Bridge during the year. Our focus 
is now on foster carer recruitment to drive 
placement numbers. At 31 December 2015 
the Group had 668 fostering placements 
(2014: 203 placements), of which 501  
related to By the Bridge. 
Adult Services
The Adult Services market is more mature 
than the Children’s market. However,  
we see opportunities in specialist sub-
segments in the Adult market and, to  
that end, we opened four larger units  
in Adult in the year with including two 
Personality Disorder units, an Acquired 
Brain Injury unit and a unit for Adults  
with autism. 
We have two Woodleigh units under 
construction and due to open later this 
year and, with a good performance from 
existing Woodleigh units since acquisition 
in 2014, we are confident that there will be 
strong demand for these services.
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10
Chief Executive’s strategic review
continued Quality and regulatory 
Our ambition is to be the highest quality 
provider of behavioural health services  
to Children and Adults. It is pleasing to 
report, therefore, that our regulatory  
scores remained strong throughout the  
year with 85% of our facilities rated good  
or outstanding with Ofsted or the CQC  
as at 31 December 2015. We underwent  
no embargoes and we currently have  
no facilities with compliance notices. 
The sector is seeing an increasingly 
stringent regulatory environment with  
an enhanced rigour of inspections which  
we both welcome and are well-positioned 
to benefit from in this drive to improve the 
focus on quality of care. 
At the same time we have seen an 
extension of the time taken to register new 
sites and services and this has contributed  
to delays in opening new sites.
From a governance perspective, in order  
to ensure an integrated approach to risk  
we have now merged the Audit Committee 
and the Quality and Risk Committee.  
The re-named Audit & Risk Committee  
now directly oversees all elements of risk  
in the business.
Fees 
In April 2015 we increased fees, across the 
majority of our services, by an average of 
2% for new admissions. From the beginning 
of 2016, we have further increased fees for 
new service users. 
As previously indicated, we are supportive 
of the introduction of the NLW and we  
are in negotiation with commissioners to 
mitigate the net impact by corresponding 
fee increases for all existing service users. 
We have engaged with our customers  
since last November to discuss and  
agree increased prices to reflect the  
NLW introduction and other cost factors  
with the aim of ensuring that there  
will be no negative impact on margins.  
We are pleased with the progress we  
have made so far. 
Summary and outlook 
It is a disappointment to report poor 
results, especially when they disguise  
the very real progress we did make  
during the year in terms of new service 
delivery and care quality.
We have moved quickly to remedy the 
issues facing our business and have 
already seen positive trends, including 
improved occupancy levels, in the first 
quarter of 2016. 
We are focussing on our core business.  
We are filling our existing capacity, 
ensuring that we have the necessary 
systems in place and deploying staff  
more efficiently.
We remain confident for the medium- 
term outlook and also the Group’s 
longer-term potential.
Saleem Asaria 
Chief Executive Officer 
26 April 2016
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
Strategic report
