 Chairman’s statement
Overview
Operationally, 2015 looked as if it would  
be a year of achievement. We continued  
to experience significant demand for our 
services, our strong quality ratings were 
maintained, we broadened the range of 
our services with the acquisition of By the 
Bridge, a specialist fostering business, and 
we added significantly to our number of 
places in an ambitious expansion drive. 
Regrettably, our expansion plan was  
in retrospect overly ambitious and  
this is reflected in our disappointing 
financial performance. 
Difficulties in recruiting and training staff, 
particularly in Children’s Services, left us 
unable to open some of our new facilities 
on time, and in order not to sacrifice 
quality, we made a number of unit level 
decisions to block or slow admissions, 
which resulted in revenues falling short  
of expectations. 
This was further exacerbated by failures  
in forecasting and controlling our cost 
base during a period of integration  
and high growth, and has resulted in 
adjusted EBITDA over 12% lower than  
the previous year.
In response to this, we commissioned 
PricewaterhouseCoopers to undertake  
a financial review of certain aspects of  
the Group’s cost management. In addition,  
we are currently implementing a number 
of remedial actions to improve our cost 
control, forecasting and management of 
our suppliers. We have restructured our 
central functions and more closely aligned 
them with the business, resulting in cost 
savings, and we have reduced our growth 
plan so that our focus is now on filling 
existing capacity.
Christopher Kemball
Chairman
Cambian has continued to deliver high 
quality outcomes for the children and 
adults placed in our care.
We hired Martin Hopcroft, who has 
restructuring and turnaround experience,  
in late 2015 and he was appointed as 
Interim CFO in early 2016. In addition  
we have hired additional resource to  
focus on managing our cost base  
with an emphasis on procurement.
We are currently undertaking a search 
process for a permanent CFO. 
Financial results
Revenue increased by 21% to £290.1 million 
(2014: £240.6 million). Adjusted EBITDA was 
£42.5 million (2014: £48.4 million) with 
adjusted EBITDA margin down from 20.1% 
to 14.7%. Operating loss was £7.6m (2014: 
£7.1m profit). Adjusted earnings per share 
were 10.6p (2014: 11.0p). Statutory basic  
loss per share was 5.4p (2014: 6.1p loss). 
The Group’s total capacity
1
 increased from 
2,668 to 2,989 in the year with average 
occupancy of 78% (2014: 81%). 
As previously advised, the Board is not 
recommending a final dividend and will 
look to reinstate the dividend at an 
appropriate time.
Bank agreement
As announced in March 2016, our financial 
performance has resulted in a breach of our 
banking covenants at 31 December 2015 and 
would also be likely to have led to a breach 
when next tested in the current financial year. 
Accordingly, and as announced in March,  
we agreed a temporary waiver with our 
lending banks to cover this eventuality and  
to facilitate our discussions with them to 
amend our facility agreement.
On 26 April 2016 the Board and the  
Group’s lending banks agreed terms for 
the amendment of the Group’s £290m 
Facilities Agreement, the provisions of 
which are set out within the Finance  
review on page 36. 
1  2014 capacity and occupancy have been adjusted to remove CAMHS and Sexual Trauma school places where, although the education capacity is separately registered, the fee is combined 
within the residential facility fee. The impact is a reduction in 2014 closing capacity of 82 places and a reduction in 2014 closing occupancy of 35 occupants. 
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6 Strategy update
The Board has been reviewing its strategic 
options in light of the agreed terms for the 
amendment of its banking facilities as well 
as the wider market environment in which 
it is operating.
The Board has concluded that it will continue 
to focus on its leading position in Children’s 
Services and has appointed advisors to 
review its strategic options in the Adult 
Services business, which may or may not 
lead to a sale of all or part of this division. 
No final decisions have been made on this 
or any other strategic option and the Board 
will provide updates as appropriate.
Quality of care
Ensuring high levels of care quality for  
the individuals we look after is core to  
our business. I am therefore pleased  
to confirm that as at 31 December 2015, 
92% of our adult facilities and 83% of our 
children’s facilities were rated either “Good” 
or “Outstanding” by our regulators, CQC 
and Ofsted respectively, at a time when 
they are rightly increasing the standards 
they expect from care providers.
We are still aiming to improve the delivery  
of what we believe are life-changing 
outcomes for our patients by supporting 
them with our highly skilled specialist 
teams and deploying a therapy-led 
approach in modern and friendly 
surroundings. Our objective is to increase  
the proportion of our facilities rated “Good”  
or “Outstanding” over the medium term.
We make considerable efforts to anticipate 
and efficiently deliver the services required by 
our customers and regulators. As Chairman, 
I now meet CQC and Ofsted annually to 
discuss areas of mutual interest and concern. 
In this regard, we also invited David Behan, 
the Chief Executive of the CQC, to attend our 
Board and Audit and Risk Committee in 
August so that he could see, understand  
and comment on how we operate.
Board changes
In July 2015, Dr Graham Rich joined the 
Board as a non-executive director and 
member of the Nomination and Audit  
and Risk Committees. Graham qualified  
in medicine and has spent his career in  
the healthcare profession where he gained 
significant experience in running two NHS 
organisations as well as having been 
Director of Health Services at The Boston 
Consulting Group, where he is now a 
Senior Advisor. 
On 2 November 2015 it was announced 
that Andrew Griffith would stand down 
from the Board after the announcement  
of the 2015 full year results. Accordingly, 
Andrew will resign from the Board on  
27 April 2016 and will leave the business 
shortly thereafter. Martin Hopcroft was 
appointed as Interim CFO early in 2016  
and we are currently undertaking a  
search process for a permanent CFO.
We are pleased today to announce the 
appointment of Mike Butterworth as an 
additional non-executive director with 
immediate effect.
Our people
The welfare of our dedicated and  
skilled staff is critical to achieving the  
best possible outcomes for those placed  
in our care. During 2015, we conducted  
a thorough review of our staff pay and 
conditions to ensure that we are in line  
with salaries in the NHS and our private 
sector competitors. As a result, we have 
simplified our pay scales, introduced 
additional pay for achieving relevant 
qualifications and linked these to the 
Government’s announced National  
Living Wage (“NLW”) levels, irrespective  
of an employee’s age. 
The Board would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our staff for their  
hard work and dedication throughout the 
year. It is much appreciated.
Governance overview
p.42
Pricing
We have engaged with our customers 
since last November to discuss and agree 
increased prices for existing service users 
to reflect the NLW introduction and other 
factors, with the aim of ensuring that there 
will be no negative impact on the business. 
We are pleased with the progress we have 
made so far.
Outlook
The results for 2015 were very disappointing 
but our remedial actions are taking effect. 
We continue to experience strong demand 
for our specialist services and trading to 
date is in line with the Board’s expectations. 
As previously advised, the result for the first 
half will be lower than H1 2015. The Board is 
confident that growth will be resumed for 
the year as a whole.
Despite the challenges we faced, we 
should not lose sight of the fact that 
Cambian remains fundamentally a good 
business with a strong value proposition 
for its customers. 
Our agenda is clear: continue to implement 
the remedial action programme; ensure 
we meet our obligations under the agreed 
terms for the amendment of our bank 
facilities; and continue to deliver the 
highest quality specialist services our 
customers demand.
Christopher Kemball
Chairman
26 April 2016
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
Strategic report
