 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 04
Overview | Chairman’s Welcome
We closed the year reporting 
revenue, including joint ventures 
and associates, of £10,896 
million, down 1%, and proﬁt 
from underlying operations 
of £309 million, down 7%. 
We retain a strong balance sheet 
with a neutral cash position, 
despite working capital 
impacts reﬂecting reduced 
volume and changing mix 
in Construction Services.
Our UK and US construction businesses 
were held back by tough economic 
conditions in 2012. But as a Group we 
were able to mitigate the impact through 
our diverse portfolio, ongoing operational 
efﬁciency and focus on new growth 
geographies and market sectors.
Tough trading conditions persisted in 
most of our major construction markets, 
particularly in the second half of the year. 
US construction markets remained 
depressed, the performance of our UK 
construction business was weaker than 
anticipated and structural problems in 
Mainland European rail markets added 
to the challenges. 
Against this challenging economic 
background, our Professional Services 
and Infrastructure Investments businesses 
demonstrated resilience and strength. 
Throughout the year, we maintained our 
relentless focus on operational efﬁciency. 
We have made progress in restructuring 
both the UK and US construction 
businesses, which helped to offset 
some of the impact of volume and 
margin pressure. We have concluded 
an operational and strategic review of our 
Mainland European rail business and will 
be divesting all of this business over time.
As you will read later in this report, in 
the near term we are addressing current 
market conditions by seeking additional 
efﬁciencies while continuing to focus on 
customer value. We expect this focus will 
also address some of the operational 
issues we have experienced in certain 
areas of the business. For mid to long 
term growth we are also stepping up 
implementation of our strategy to target 
growth geographies and market sectors. 
You can read more about this on pages 
10 and 11.
Board
We have made a number of boardroom 
changes over the past year. We 
announced in January 2013 that our Chief 
Executive, Ian Tyler, would hand over to 
Andrew McNaughton at the end of March 
2013. Over his eight-year tenure Ian led a 
transformation of the business: it has 
trebled in size, extended its global reach 
and capabilities, and in particular 
developed a strong professional services 
business following the acquisition of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2009. He will 
remain with the Group until 30 April 2013 
to ensure a smooth transition.
Andrew McNaughton has an excellent 
understanding of all areas of the Group 
and is supported by a strong team. In 
his previous capacity as Deputy Chief 
Executive and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
he has already shown that he has both 
the skills and the experience to take on 
the leadership of the business. Andrew 
has been instrumental in developing the 
strategy that we are now implementing. 
It is encouraging that Balfour Beatty has 
the depth of management talent to ensure 
a smooth succession with a high calibre 
internal candidate.
Chairman’s Welcome
Balfour Beatty’s success is very much dependent on its 
people, and never more so than in challenging times. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
Overview
In the third quarter 
of 2012, we launched 
our global intranet. 
“360” is now 
available to over 
70% of our online 
employees worldwide 
and is designed to 
enable more effective 
collaboration and 
knowledge sharing. 
More employees 
will receive access 
during 2013.
Australia and one in Indonesia. Every 
fatal accident is subject to a thorough 
investigation and review by the Balfour 
Beatty Board. Lessons learnt are shared 
across the Group to help improve future 
performance and our focus in this area 
remains vigilant.
As a consequence, in 2013 and beyond 
we are reinvigorating our Zero Harm 
efforts, setting clear health and safety 
expectations for all of our businesses, 
redoubling our efforts to pursue the 
elimination of fatal risk and increasing the 
level of personal accountability for safety. 
Read more about this on page 48.
Dividend
The Board believes that it remains 
appropriate to retain our longer term policy 
of progressive dividends. In recognition of 
shorter term earnings pressure, we are 
proposing to hold the ﬁnal dividend at 
8.5p per ordinary share to give a total 
dividend for 2012 of 14.1p – an increase 
of 2% on 2011.
Looking forward
Looking forward we can point to a number 
of favourable dynamics. We expect to see 
the full impact of our efﬁciencies coming 
through in 2014. We believe our transition 
to focus on growth geographies and 
sectors will position us well for the 
mid term.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
During the year we also announced the 
retirement in June 2012 of Deputy Chief 
Executive Anthony Rabin, who had been 
with the Group for 17 years. And Senior 
Independent Director Robert Walvis 
retired from the Board at the end of 
the year after over 11 years’ service. 
We were pleased to welcome our ﬁrst 
female non-executive to the Board with 
the appointment of Maureen Kempston 
Darkes in May 2012. Until her retirement 
at the end of 2009, Maureen was group 
vice-president for General Motors’ 
Latin America, Africa and Middle East 
operations. After qualifying as a lawyer 
she joined General Motors in 1975 
and held a series of increasingly senior 
roles there.
Within the senior executive ranks, after 
almost 40 years of distinguished service, 
Brian Osborne retired from the Group at 
the end of 2012. Brian had worked in 
various parts of the business in roles that 
included managing director of Balfour 
Beatty Civil Engineering, Group managing 
director for civil engineering and most 
recently International Business director.
Our people and reputation
Balfour Beatty’s success is very much 
dependent on its people, and never more 
so than in challenging times. In some 
areas of the business, our people have 
had to contend with tough markets 
while adapting to ongoing internal 
change. I extend my thanks to all of 
them for their commitment, dedication 
and skill in helping us navigate today’s 
business environment.
As the Group embarks on its new 
strategic direction, collaboration and 
knowledge sharing assumes ever greater 
importance. Our capacity to harness the 
wide range of skills, knowledge and 
human potential across the business is 
key to securing competitive advantage. 
Another crucial concern is the safety of 
our people, our suppliers and the general 
public. In 2012, the Group Accident 
Frequency Rate (AFR) improved to 0.16 
(2011: 0.17), where the AFR is a ratio 
relating the number of major injuries to 
the total hours worked. There were 
signiﬁcant improvements in many parts of 
the Group in relation to safety, however it 
is with deep regret that there were eight 
employee fatalities during 2012 – three in 
the UK, two in North America, two in 
Overview | Chairman’s Welcome
