 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 06
Our Business | Chief Executive’s Review
For the past 15 years, we have 
been on a journey from a UK- 
based construction business to 
a leading, global infrastructure 
provider. This journey has had, 
and continues to have, a 
profound effect on how we 
deliver value to our clients 
when we operate in this way, 
and on our exposure to higher 
growth markets.
We have focused on economic 
infrastructure as we believe this will drive 
investment in the long term. Infrastructure 
markets are resilient because sustainable 
economic growth will always require 
infrastructure investment. In developed 
economies this will be driven by ageing 
infrastructure which needs replacing 
and the sustainability/carbon agenda; 
in emerging economies it will be driven 
by urbanisation and economic growth. 
Infrastructure is high on government 
policy agendas virtually everywhere.
Our long term vision
Our strategy for growth remains 
based on building a platform of asset 
knowledge and capabilities that span 
the infrastructure lifecycle with the ability 
to ﬁnance and develop projects, focusing 
on strategic market sectors. Our services 
are delivered via local country businesses, 
harnessed together to deliver value to 
infrastructure owners around the world. 
These asset owners are predominantly 
national or regional organisations that 
generally own assets in a single market 
sector. To deliver our strategic vision 
we must be structured better to suit 
their needs. So we are reshaping our 
operations into country led business 
units that deliver a full range of services 
in speciﬁc infrastructure market sectors. 
These business units will be able to 
put our global expertise at their clients’ 
disposal. We connect them through 
efﬁcient knowledge transfer and support 
them with the necessary specialist skills 
and resources from market sector 
experts: leadership for speciﬁc sectors 
is being provided on a global basis.
Focusing on growth markets
The reshaping of our business will 
continue through 2013 as we focus 
it more closely on our chosen growth 
geographies and industry sectors. We 
have already made good progress with 
building our credentials in these markets. 
Successes in 2012 included signiﬁcantly 
increased activity in the power and water 
sectors and in growth geographies such 
as Australia. 
Our traditional markets in the UK and 
the US remain a bedrock on which the 
business will be based. In these markets 
our construction businesses were 
impacted by the continuing economic 
downturn, which has reduced the 
number of larger, more complex and 
higher margin projects where we excel. 
But the impact was mitigated by the 
broadening of our capabilities beyond 
construction, and our Professional 
Services and Infrastructure Investments 
businesses ﬁnished the year with 
performance in line with expectations. 
This reinforces our view that our focus 
on infrastructure is sound even when 
markets become less buoyant; and 
that it will remain so as we expand into 
other geographies at different stages 
of the cycle.
In mature markets we are particularly 
targeting opportunities where we can 
provide end-to-end services rather than 
just being part of the value chain. In 
emerging markets where we anticipate 
signiﬁcant long term investment in 
infrastructure, such as India, Brazil 
and South Africa, we are establishing 
relationships and showcasing our skills 
to future clients, particularly in the 
transportation, mining, and power 
and energy markets.
The resilient performance of our 
Professional Services and Infrastructure 
Investments businesses gives us 
conﬁdence that over the medium to 
long term our position in infrastructure 
markets, our competitive advantage in 
our focus market sectors of transportation, 
power and energy, water and mining, 
and our initiatives to expand our current 
access in growing markets such as 
Australia, Canada, South Africa, Brazil 
and India will deliver sustainable growth 
and a more robust business base.
Chief Executive’s Review
We are realigning our business to sharpen our focus on growth 
markets in key geographies and industry sectors. Combined with 
our spread of capabilities across the lifecycle of the infrastructure 
asset, this will differentiate us from competitors and allow us to 
beneﬁt from markets where growth is buoyant.
For the past 15 years, 
we have been on a 
journey from a UK-
based construction 
business to a leading, 
global infrastructure 
provider. I am proud 
to have led the Group 
on this journey and I 
am conﬁdent Balfour 
Beatty will continue 
to go from strength 
to strength as it 
continues this journey 
in the future. Our Business
07 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Leading change
It has been my privilege to shape 
Balfour Beatty over the past few years. 
Andrew McNaughton has worked 
alongside me in developing our strategy 
and future business model. Now is the 
time for me to hand over to Andrew and 
let him continue to evolve the business 
to being a truly global organisation, 
recognised as one of the world’s 
leading infrastructure businesses and 
acclaimed for the quality of service that 
we deliver to our clients. The end-to-end 
knowledge that we have across the 
whole infrastructure lifecycle differentiates 
us from our competition. Our strength 
as an asset owner and in our developing 
country led organisations will allow us 
to build relationships with clients which 
will continue to change our industry.
It goes without saying that I have been 
proud to lead this business. I have worked 
with a great team of dedicated people at 
all levels of the business and a supportive 
Board and senior management team. I am 
conﬁdent the Group will continue to go 
from strength to strength in the future 
under Andrew’s leadership.
Ian Tyler
Chief Executive
Addressing short term pressures
Meanwhile, for the near term we have 
been managing our business on the basis 
that market conditions would be tough, 
and this has proved an effective strategy. 
We have concluded an operational and 
strategic review of our Mainland European 
rail business and we will be divesting all 
of this business over time. 
In August 2010, we announced the 
creation of a shared service centre in 
the UK, with a target of £30 million of 
annual savings by the end of 2012. This 
programme was realised as planned and 
has reached its targeted run rate at the 
end of 2012. The second phase of our 
cost efﬁciency activity was announced in 
March 2012. This programme is broader 
and deeper and targets an additional 
£50 million of annual savings by 2015.
We have already made good progress in 
Phase 2. The UK construction business 
has been rationalised into three business 
streams, with a structure of regional 
delivery units. We are gaining efﬁciency 
and ﬂexibility by reducing back ofﬁce 
support functions and the number of 
ofﬁces we occupy. 
The US construction business is 
moving to a uniﬁed operating model, 
encompassing buildings, rail and 
infrastructure operations. They have 
reorganised from ﬁve to three regional 
business streams. As part of the structural 
realignment, a national Capability Centre 
was also formed to harness expertise, 
capture best practices and deploy that 
knowledge across the national business. 
The new structure focuses on sharing 
resources and contributes savings.
Our Support Services business is 
currently implementing cost reduction 
measures and our Professional Services 
business is transferring its support 
functions from New York City to Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania to improve cost efﬁciency.
These initiatives have already reached 
£36 million of savings in 2012. We are 
aiming for a total of £80 million of savings 
by the end of 2015.
Our Business | Chief Executive’s Review
