  06
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
JOINT CHIEF EXECUTIVES’ STATEMENT
JAMIE TRUE
Joint Chief Executive
JACK BEKHOR
Joint Chief Executive
“ This year has seen us achieve not only admission to AIM 
but also a 78% increase in our proﬁ ts, with a pre-tax proﬁ t 
of £1.1 million.”
OVERVIEW
This is our ﬁ rst Annual Report since joining AIM and we are 
pleased to announce that we have achieved further 
improvement in our proﬁ ts this year, our third consecutive 
year of growth, with a pre-tax proﬁ t of £1.1 million. This 
success has been the result of consolidating our core 
business, developing new delivery channels and expanding 
into European and other international markets. We have 
also made signiﬁ cant investment in our product portfolio, 
both by licensing new technologies to commercialise 
and by developing in-house proprietary technologies to 
address the needs of mass consumer markets.
AIMS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Our primary aim this year was to increase our turnover 
and profits whilst investing in the business to expand 
our product portfolio. We are pleased to report that we 
have achieved success in both endeavours. This growth 
is a result of continued sales from ONSPEED and a sustained 
revenue contribution from our other products. 
By developing a number of new routes to market, through 
both retail and afﬁ liate partnerships, as well as expanding our 
customer base abroad, we have achieved signiﬁ cant sales 
growth. In addition, we continue to maintain high customer 
retention levels through the provision of unique and affordable 
software services and excellent customer support.
We have laid the foundations for the future this year through 
sizeable investment in research and development. This 
has resulted in the recent launch of ONSPEED Mobile and 
the release of our revolutionary ﬁ le sharing software OnShare.
Our ﬁ rst products Net2Roam and NetAway have provided 
a consistent revenue stream, with very little requirement 
for additional resources or marketing budget. It has been 
through the success of these products that we have also 
established strong relationships with distributors and retailers 
that have been beneﬁ cial in the development of new routes 
to market for ONSPEED both in the UK and abroad.
Onbidder was also launched this year, and although 
it only accounts for a small percentage of our revenue, 
it also sells both online and through retail outlets, further 
strengthening the Group’s brand position with major 
retailers and consumers alike.
ONSPEED has continued to perform very well throughout 
the year and we now have over half a million customers. 
Online sales have grown, continuing to account for the majority 
of sales both in the UK and abroad. Ofﬂ ine sales increased 
with the publication of a retail version of ONSPEED, which 
is now sold in most major retailers in the UK and Europe. 
The Group further developed its Internet acceleration software 
for Dial-up and Broadband, with the release in January 2006   07
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
“ By developing a number 
of new routes to market, 
through both retail and 
afﬁ liate partnerships as 
well as expanding our 
customer base abroad 
we have achieved 
signiﬁ cant sales growth. 
We continue to maintain 
high customer retention 
levels through the 
provision of unique and 
highly affordable software 
services and excellent 
customer support.”
of ONSPEED Version 5, which delivers 40% faster Internet 
connection speeds. The addition of ONSPEED Version 5 
has allowed us to market the product more effectively to 
Broadband customers in addition to the existing Dial-up 
customer base.
NEW ROUTES TO MARKET
Following the success of ONSPEED sales via the web and 
the release of the retail version, we have signed a number 
of distribution deals for ONSPEED this year. These include 
Koch Media, one of Europe’s largest software distributors, 
with which we have signed deals in the UK, Germany, 
Switzerland, Austria and Italy. In the UK, our retail products 
are available in the key software retailers such as PC World, 
WH Smith, Game, HMV and Virgin. The product was 
successfully chart-tracked in the retail market, a key driver 
for establishing good credentials and positioning with 
retailers. Signiﬁ cant sales were achieved through this channel, 
which opened up the market for ONSPEED to a wider 
audience. It has also served well in promoting the ONSPEED 
brand to the consumer marketplace.
In addition we have distribution deals in place with 
companies in the USA, Russia, the rest of Europe, Africa 
and Asia. We recognise the need for local support within 
international markets and have established relationships 
with key local partners, which we have found to be highly 
 “ When so many programs claim to speed up your net 
connection it’s refreshing to ﬁ nd one that actually does it.”
.Net magazine  08
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
“ We are delighted by the 
Group’s progress since 
admission to AIM and 
this is, in large part, due 
to the skill and hard work 
of our employees.”
beneficial in supporting sales growth. The demand 
for products such as ONSPEED is very high in these 
countries, with the majority of Internet users still on 
Dial-up connections.
During the year, the Group has established itself within 
the international retail sector and retail sales now account 
for 18% of turnover. Our strong relationships with the 
major retailers will stand us in good stead for future 
product releases, including ONSPEED Mobile and 
OnShare. Distribution deals are already lined up for the 
retail version of ONSPEED Mobile as well as a number 
of consumer-focused gaming software products.
ONLINE AND AFFILIATE PARTNERSHIPS
This year we formed a number of new afﬁ liate partnerships 
and consolidated existing ones. Our deal with BT has 
continued to drive sales and we have signed new ISP 
agreements with among others, Wanadoo and PIPEX. 
We have also signed afﬁ liate deals in a number of other 
countries in Africa and Asia, as well as Russia. Aside from 
the commercial value of these deals, Z GROUP has 
strengthened its brand through these high profile 
relationships and further improved its awareness and 
credibility to a wider international audience. 
JOINT CHIEF EXECUTIVES’ STATEMENT
CONTINUED
“ Speed up your modem Internet connection to Broadband 
speeds. We’re serious! An amazing piece of software.”
PC Answers magazine  09
AWARD-WINNING SOFTWARE
Not only has it been an encouraging year for the Group 
in terms of sales growth but we have also received 
a number of awards from the technical press that have 
helped establish ONSPEED as the recognised market 
leader. This has raised our proﬁ le within the software 
industry, distinguishing the Group as a highly innovative 
provider of consumer-focused software services.
OUTLOOK
We are delighted by the Group’s progress since 
admission to AIM and this is, in large part, due 
to the skill and hard work of our employees. 
By building on the success of our existing products, 
we expect to see sustained levels of sales growth 
in the period ahead. We also anticipate additional 
growth will be achieved from our expanded product 
portfolio and further development of our own IP and we 
will continue to explore new opportunities for the Group 
throughout the year.
JACK BEKHOR
Joint Chief Executive
JAMIE TRUE
Joint Chief Executive
30 May 2006
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
“ We have also laid the foundations for the future this year, 
through sizeable investment in research and development, 
which has resulted in the launch of ONSPEED Mobile 
and OnShare.”
