  04
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
JOHN STANDEN
Non-Executive Chairman 
“ We ended the year with a clear focus for the future 
– to continue to invest in new licensed technologies 
and to continue to create our own Intellectual Property.”
I am pleased to report our ﬁ rst full ﬁ nancial results since 
Z GROUP’s successful admission to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market 
in June 2005. 
RESULTS
Our results demonstrate that our business model is delivering 
substantial growth. Turnover has increased by 63% to 
£5.0 million compared with £3.1 million for the 11-month period 
ended 28 February 2005, as annualised for comparison 
purposes. Gross margin was consistent with previous 
periods of trading at 78% and we made a record full year 
pre-tax proﬁ t of £1.1 million (2005: £0.6 million).
After a substantial investment of £0.9 million in our new 
products and the related websites, we ended the year with 
cash resources of £4.1 million, compared to £4.6 million 
immediately following the Placing in June 2005.
CORPORATE STRATEGY
We develop and sell innovative web-enabled technologies 
which meet an identified growing mass market need. 
In the last ﬁ nancial year our major priorities have been 
to invest in our ground-breaking new products OnShare 
and ONSPEED Mobile, while selling ONSPEED into 
an ever-widening marketplace. We ended the year with 
over half a million customers worldwide and a clear focus 
for the future – to continue to invest in new licensed 
technologies and to continue to create our own IP .
BOARD AND PEOPLE
At the time of our Placing we stated that we would expand 
the Board by recruiting a Chair for our Audit Committee. 
We are pleased to announce that Polly Williams will be joining 
the Board from 6 July 2006. Polly Williams will bring 
considerable experience to this role and we look forward 
to welcoming her onto the Board.
We are continuing the search for a Finance Director to join 
our Board. In the meantime, we have been fortunate to 
have excellent assistance in this regard and anticipate that 
by the end of the financial year we will have appointed 
a new Finance Director.
We have seen a steady increase in the number of staff 
working at Z GROUP with over 35 people now working 
for the Group. Without these staff members and the 
unique skills each brings to the Group, it would not have 
been possible for us to achieve these record results. Their 
hard work, commitment and innovation have been the key 
to Z GROUP’s success.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Part of Z GROUP’s philosophy is to work to the highest 
ethical standards, wherever possible – this includes 
its relationships with staff and customers and all those 
who may have dealings with the Group. We actively support 
a small start-up charity and provide encouragement 
to those staff involved.
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006  05
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
“ Turnover has increased 
by 63% to £5.0 million 
compared with 
£3.1 million for the year 
ended 28 February 2005 
and we made a record 
full year pre-tax proﬁ t of 
£1.1 million ending the 
year with cash resources 
of £4.1 million.”
PROSPECTS
Z GROUP continues to identify commercial opportunities 
for new technologies and to develop products that satisfy 
consumer needs. During the ﬁ rst month of the new ﬁ nancial 
year we have successfully released two new products: 
ONSPEED Mobile and OnShare (as a beta release) and 
their current performance is meeting our expectations. 
In ONSPEED Mobile and OnShare we have two new exciting 
products that we anticipate will address the growing 
consumer demand for mobile Internet and file sharing 
services, which are predicted to grow exponentially over 
the next few years. We are well positioned to satisfy this 
consumer demand and we are looking forward to another 
successful year. 
JOHN STANDEN
Non-Executive Chairman
30 May 2006
 “ Broadband speeds on a 56k modem may seem like 
fantasy, but amazingly it does work.”
 “ Performance 5/5, Ease of use 5/5, Value 5/5, Rating 5/5.”
Internet and Broadband Advisor magazine
“ I am pleased to report our ﬁ rst ﬁ nancial results since 
Z GROUP’s successful admission to trading on 
AIM in June 2005. Our results demonstrate that 
our business model is delivering substantial growth.”
