  02
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
Z GROUP AT A GLANCE
Z GROUP product portfolio
OVERVIEW
Bridging the gap between new technology and marketing, Z GROUP combines a highly effective direct-to-consumer 
marketing approach, a rapid time-to-market and a growing portfolio of innovative products. The Group’s strength lies 
in identifying new technological opportunities with well-deﬁ ned commercial potential and developing these by licensing, 
acquiring and creating IP . It has achieved signiﬁ cant growth by producing a number of strong consumer brands, establishing 
key partnerships and delivering effective, analytical marketing strategies.
The Group focuses on low-risk, pre-paid cash generation and its product portfolio emphasises low-cost products, low-cost 
customer acquisition and high levels of customer retention, achieved through the provision of excellent customer service 
and product upgrades. In addition, all the Group’s products have a global market base, which continues to grow, with 
customers in the USA, Russia, the rest of Europe, Africa and Asia.
“ Net2Roam was brilliant during a two week stay in Portugal. 
It meant I could continue my work during my trip at 
a reasonable cost . . . avoiding expensive hotel phone 
bills and no one actually knew I was away!”
Joanna Rice, Sky News Presenter
Net2Roam is a pre-paid service purchased online that 
delivers Dial-up and ISDN access in over 160 countries 
and from over 22,000 Dial-up locations, permitting users 
to browse the web and send and receive emails using 
their existing email accounts. 
“ I frequently travel the world, and often to far-ﬂ ung places, 
so a reliable and efﬁ cient means of always getting online 
– backed up by helpful customer service advice when 
I need it – is absolutely essential to me.”
Mike Harna, Status Quo
NetAway is a cut-down version of Net2Roam, which is sold 
in retail outlets throughout the UK. 
Net2Roam addresses the global need for low-cost easy 
Internet access when travelling abroad, and with increasing 
international and national business travel as well as 
increased laptop sales both in the UK and Europe, 
Net2Roam continues to satisfy that demand.
Net2Roam and NetAway are Net2Roam Limited brands.
“ Onbidder is one of the easiest ways to take control of – 
and win – eBay auctions.”
Computer Shopper Magazine
Onbidder is a software download that seamlessly integrates 
into eBay, making a user’ s bid at the last second of an auction 
– giving the users the best chance to win their item at the best 
possible price. This product was released in October 2005 
and is also available in retail outlets throughout the UK. 
Onbidder is a CallPal Limited brand.
“   Once you’ve used ONSPEED you won’t want to surf the 
net without it.” 
 Laptop Magazine
ONSPEED is the leading Internet acceleration software 
in the market. An award-winning product, it relies upon 
patented compression technology that delivers Internet 
speed increases of up to ten times for Dial-up and up to 
ﬁ ve times for Broadband connections. It is available online 
and in retail outlets in the UK and abroad. 
Dial-up users still make up the majority of Internet users in the 
UK, much of Europe and the rest of the world. ONSPEED 
delivers the only viable means to increase web browsing 
speeds and signiﬁ cantly enhance the sending and receiving 
of emails. For users who are on a Broadband connection 
of up to two Megabytes (2Mb) and who frequently do not 
receive the promised speeds, as a result of line quality, 
distance from the exchange and contention ratios, ONSPEED 
delivers speed increases of up to ﬁ ve times. A number of 
major Broadband providers now offer ONSPEED as an 
enhancement to their 1Mb and 2Mb connections. 
Z GROUP CURRENTLY COMPRISES SIX BRANDED PRODUCTS WITH FOUR ACTIVE BUSINESSES:   03
“It’s no exaggeration to say that ONSPEED Mobile could 
revolutionise mobile web browsing.” 
PC Advisor magazine
Z GROUP’s success in identifying new technologies that 
satisfy a growing consumer need has seen it develop its 
portfolio through the launch of ONSPEED Mobile, which 
was released in March 2006. Using compression technology 
and licensed page reformatting software, ONSPEED Mobile 
has been commercialised for a mass consumer audience 
to offer enhanced mobile phone surﬁ ng, which is faster, 
easier and more affordable. By compressing web pages 
by up to 80% and resizing pages to ﬁ t speciﬁ c mobile 
screens, users enjoy speed increases of up to ten times, 
web pages that are easy to view and use and data savings 
of up to 75%. As most operators charge per Mb of data, 
by compressing the data, bills are reduced.
There is a rapidly growing market for mobile Internet 
access, and this unique technology will dramatically 
improve the customer perception and experience of 
mobile phone browsing, which has, since the advent 
of Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), been incredibly 
poor. This new product is aimed at the 700 million 
java-enabled mobile phone users across the world.
ONSPEED and ONSPEED Mobile are 
Turbodial Limited brands.
OnShare is a recent addition to the Group’s portfolio. 
A software service, it uses proprietary next generation 
ﬁ le sharing technology known as Friend-to-Friend (F2F) 
and delivers the highest level of security possible. The 
Group has made a signiﬁ cant investment in research and 
development over the last 18 months and, in OnShare, 
it now owns valuable IP . This represents a new and exciting 
departure for the Group, in addition to the other 
technologies it licenses and acquires.
The beta version of OnShare was launched on 31 March 2006 
and addresses the growing market for ﬁ le sharing, which 
currently accounts for around 35% of all Internet trafﬁ c. 
This is predicted to rise to around 65% by 2007 and 
OnShare is set to satisfy the increasing demand while 
addressing the inherent problems associated with other 
kinds of ﬁ le sharing programs. 
Offering secure, private one-to-one ﬁ le sharing, it has been 
developed to integrate into the very heart of the Windows 
application. It enables secure ﬁ le sharing, without the bundled 
spyware and malware associated with most other programs. 
It also integrates directly into Windows, so users can create 
Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) on-the-fly, without 
the requirement for hardware and set-up. Known as 
Instant Private Networks (IPNs) OnShare enables friends, 
family and small to medium enterprises to establish the kind 
of networks that have commonly been the preserve of big 
business. The Group is extremely excited about the potential 
for OnShare for both the consumer and business audiences. 
OnShare is an OnShare Limited brand.
Z GROUP plc 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
