 CHIEf EXECUTIv E’S 
r EpOr T
In 2013, challenging economic conditions and, 
well flagged, operational issues in the UK led to 
a disappointing financial performance. We have 
taken firm actions to address all these issues. 
investment in major infrastructure projects 
in the UK has resulted in fewer major 
projects being brought to the market. 
Whilst the UK economy is starting to pick 
up and will start to have a positive impact 
on parts of the construction market, we 
anticipate current conditions will continue 
into 2014.
 Read more online about Nick Pollard
The market in Australia has seen 
significant deterioration, with a large 
number of capital projects cancelled 
over the last 18 months. Our Australian 
Professional Services business has seen 
a corresponding deterioration in both 
volume and pricing through the year. 
In response, we have already taken strong 
and decisive steps to take cost out of the 
business; enabling a return to profitability, 
but we see the constrained market 
conditions as being likely to continue 
in 2014.
These issues have been partially offset by 
positive performance elsewhere. With the 
exception of Australia, the Professional 
Services business performed well, with 
particular strength in US transportation, 
Asia and the Middle East, where our focus 
on the transportation sector has proved 
beneficial with the award of various high 
profile contracts during the year. However, 
order book increases in the US and the 
Middle East were offset by the impact 
of Australia and minor movement in the 
UK business. 
In the US, we are seeing a quicker  
return to growth than in the UK market. 
There are more private and complex 
construction projects coming to the 
market and our order book is looking 
healthy for the future. For the first time in 
2013, the US construction business was 
larger than the UK. In Asia, our Gammon 
JV continues to perform well and we are 
seeing high volumes and a strong order 
book, particularly in Hong Kong.
Support Services has demonstrated 
resilience in the current economic 
environment and strengthened its position 
in the UK highways maintenance and 
power and gas markets with several key 
contract awards during the course of 
the year. 
Our Infrastructure Investments division 
has had an excellent year. Our strategy 
of recycling the capital invested in the 
portfolio has delivered a very favourable 
outcome during the year, and full-year 
underlying profits before tax for the 
division were £132 million. It is becoming 
clear that our investment division is core 
to connecting other areas of the business 
and we will maximise this in the future.
Last year, at our full-year results in March, 
I set out clear objectives for the year, 
aligned to our strategic objectives. In the 
short term, these were to continue with 
our focus on cost efficiencies, dispose 
of our mainland European rail businesses 
(which are underperforming and non-
strategic) and complete the strategic 
review of our UK facilities management 
business – Balfour Beatty WorkPlace. 
We have made significant progress on 
all of these.
In July, we announced the sale of 
WorkPlace to GDF Suez Energy Services 
for £155 million in cash. This sale 
represents an important step in our 
evolution as we intensify our focus 
on the creation and management of 
infrastructure assets. In addition to finding 
a good new home for the business, its 
clients and employees, this transaction 
has achieved good value and will enable 
us to allocate more resources to target 
growth in the future. 
As part of our ongoing programme of 
mainland European rail disposals; in 
March, we announced the sale of the 
Spanish business, and in December the 
sale of the Scandinavian business to 
Strukton Rail B.V. We are currently in 
discussion with a number of potential 
buyers for the German business and have 
started preliminary discussions for the 
Italian business. In Germany trading 
has been very poor which resulted in 
an underlying loss from operations  
of £26 million. 
 Read more on p31
Our cost efficiency programmes remain 
on track and we have made significant 
progress in this area this year. During 
2013, we centralised much of our 
common expenditure and low value UK 
buying. We made ongoing savings of 
£6 million per year in the US by relocating 
many support service staff from Parsons 
Brinckerhoff’s New York headquarters to 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania and we closed 
our UK defined benefit pension scheme 
to current members. 
 Read more on p16
We are committed to becoming 
a leading international 
infrastructure company, acclaimed 
for the quality of service that we 
deliver to our clients. We create 
critical assets which support 
our clients in providing services 
to the communities which 
they serve. 
As I have highlighted over the course 
of the year, market conditions in the 
countries in which we operate have had a 
strong influence on our performance. We 
have seen challenging markets in the UK 
and Australia and some emerging markets 
have been tougher. This combined with 
our own operational issues has led to poor 
performance in those specific markets. 
In 2013, our leadership team has 
responded with decisive actions that have 
reduced the impact of these conditions 
and stabilised the business for the future, 
whilst still remaining focused on our mid 
to long term growth opportunities.
At the end of April, we reported that  
the UK construction business had been 
impacted by a £50 million profit shortfall. 
The UK construction business has 
stabilised in the second half as the 
management team, led by the newly 
appointed Construction Services UK CEO 
– Nick Pollard – has focused on improving 
operational performance which was the 
primary cause. As a result, we have seen 
our Regional business strengthen through 
the same period, but the current lack of 
balfourbeatty.com/ar2013 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013
4 n ear term focus
As 2013 demonstrated, our Infrastructure 
Investments business was a key lever 
to connecting our operating divisions. 
When we work in this way we generate 
incremental revenue across the Group  
and this is something we will absolutely 
focus on moving forward.
As we head into 2014, we are seeing 
strong growth in some markets, for 
example the Middle East and Asia. Also 
there are some signs that our largest and 
most mature markets, such as US building 
and parts of the UK, are returning to 
growth. It is here that we will focus 
our efforts and maximise the benefits 
available from the cyclical recovery.
Over the next few years, as the strength 
of the Group continues to grow, we will 
focus on expanding our local presence in 
our mature home markets and also look 
to develop our next generation of home 
markets such as Australia, Canada and  
the Middle East where, and when, market 
trends support our business model. 
 Read more on p12
o ur mid to long term growth plans
My longer term goals for the Group, as 
outlined in March 2013, are to leverage 
three key strengths; local presence, asset 
knowledge and our skills as an investor 
and developer.
As I look to the future, we will continue 
to build on these differentiators. We look 
to the effectiveness and reliability of our 
processes, the lifecycle and technical 
expertise that we have built on years of 
experience operating across the world, 
together with the strength of our people, 
and of course the great relationships we 
have with our clients, to set us apart from 
the competition. We will look to innovate 
and target continuous improvement to 
make a difference to our projects. It is 
in these areas that I expect to place 
significant emphasis over the coming 
years. Creating leading local presence, 
harnessing the knowledge we have of 
the assets we create and manage and 
combining our skills as investor and 
developer are critical in enabling this.
It is clear the near term will remain 
challenging and our focus must remain 
on being poised to benefit from a return 
to growth in our home markets. However, 
we continue to lead the market in creating 
innovative solutions for complex projects 
and I am committed to a highly disciplined 
approach to increasing the value of our 
business and a continued review of the 
structure and capabilities of the Group 
as a whole.
I am equally applying this sense of 
discipline to our key processes. In 2013, 
we set out the next phase of our road 
map to Zero Harm. Despite this, as Steve 
Marshall has noted, five people tragically 
lost their lives during the year. No such 
loss is acceptable and I will remain 
relentless in my drive across the whole 
organisation for the elimination of risk 
to personal harm.
It is not just my commitment but that 
of the whole team at Balfour Beatty. 
Despite the challenges that we have faced 
in 2013 the energy and drive of business 
leaders faced with difficult choices and 
the dedication of the whole Balfour Beatty 
family to serving our clients and 
commitments is inspirational.
Effective infrastructure is the heart of 
any community and everyone at Balfour 
Beatty plays a part. It is a team that is 
growing in strength and capability to 
serve. I therefore have no doubt that with 
this team and the actions taken in 2013, 
I can look to the future with confidence.
Andrew Mcn aughton
Chief Executive
 Read more about the Executive  
leadership team online
GrOWTH: GEOG rap HIC 
a Nd SECTO r G r OWTH
 Read more on p12
1
d El Iv Er G r EaTEr val UE TO Cl IENTS: 
TO SUpp Or T THEIr OB j ECTIv ES
 Read more on p15
2
IMprOv E OpEra TIONal pE rf Or Ma NCE 
aN d C OST Eff ECTIv ENESS
 Read more on p16
3
CONTINUE TO SHOW lE ad Er SHIp  
IN v al UES a Nd B EHav IOUr
 Read more on p19
4
OUr ST ra TEGIC OBj ECTIv ES 
 Read more on p10
Profitable Markets Healthy Communities Environmental Limits
We have set a clear path to embed sustainability into everything we do by 
2020. We focus on our sustainability activities in three key areas; profitable 
markets, healthy communities and environmental limits. Throughout this Report 
find out more about these areas of focus wherever you see these icons.
 balfourbeatty.com/sustainability
balfourbeatty.com/ar2013 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013
5
