 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 8 
DELIVERING 
VALUE 
THROUGH 
PERFORMANCE
Chief Executive’s Review
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive
Capco performed strongly in 2013 as a result of the strategy to 
grow value at Covent Garden and create value at Earls Court. 
Adjusted NAV per share grew 22.4 per cent to 249 pence per share, 
driven by a total property return of 21.9 per cent. Underlying 
earnings were 1.0 pence per share in 2013.
The central London property market continues to perform strongly , 
with a deep pool of investors and occupiers. London continues to 
thrive as a global city , beneﬁ ting the retail and residential sectors 
on which Capco focuses.
The creative place-making strategy at Covent Garden has again 
enabled the estate to outperform other areas in central London. 
The Group’s vision for Earls Court has led to the outline planning 
consent for a 10.1 million sq ft scheme, adding further momentum 
to the project.
Valuations
The Group beneﬁ ted from strong valuations across the business. 
The property portfolio is valued at £2.3 billion as at 31 December 
2013, an increase of 19.9 per cent like-for-like over the year.
Covent Garden
The Covent Garden estate has performed strongly in 2013. The 
neighbourhood is now established as a vibrant and exciting 
district of central London and is receiving global recognition 
as a world-class retail destination.
The estate is valued at £1,156 million as at 31 December 2013, 
a like-for-like increase of 19.2 per cent during 2013. The major 
component of this increase is the strong growth in ERV , up 
11.0 per cent on a like-for-like basis to £58.0 million. The ERV 
target has been revised to £75.0 million by December 2016.
Over the past four years, since Capco was established as an 
independent company , the valuation of Covent Garden has grown 
at an annual like-for-like rate of 12.3 per cent, and ERV has grown 
at 8.9 per cent. 
The arrival of a number of luxury retail and restaurant brands, 
including Dior Beauty and Burberry Beauty Box, alongside Chanel 
Beauty boutique, Ladurée and Balthazar, has made Covent Garden 
the destination of choice in central London for both Londoners 
and visitors. 
“Our strategy is clear and focused. The 
creative place-making strategy at Covent 
Garden has established the estate as a world-
class retail and dining destination. At Earls 
Court, a number of major planning and land 
assembly milestones, including the receipt of 
outline planning consent for the Masterplan, 
have enabled us to drive further momentum 
as we progress this exciting scheme.” Governance Financial statements Strategic report
www.capitalandcounties.com 9 
The value creation at Covent Garden has progressed 
with the resolutions to grant planning consent for 
the Kings Court and Carriage Hall schemes. This will 
have a major impact on the area, opening up a new 
pedestrian route between Long Acre and King Street, 
and establishing new, high quality retail and restaurant 
space in and around Floral Street.
Earls Court
The receipt of outline planning consent for the Earls 
Court Masterplan is a major success and is the 
culmination of the initial strategy that commenced 
when Capco acquired its ﬁ rst interest at Earls Court 
in 2007 .
The valuation of Capco’s interests at Earls Court, 
represented by Earls Court Properties, has grown 
strongly in the year to £934 million. EC1 & EC2, 
principally the Group’s interests in the Earls Court 
exhibition centres, has beneﬁ ted from the strong 
London residential market and planning consent, 
increasing by 24.0 per cent to £453 million.
Lillie Square continues to progress towards a formal 
sales and marketing launch. The project team has 
focused on creating a high quality product that will be 
competitive in the current marketplace. The intention 
remains to commence construction of the scheme later 
this year.
The remaining interest in the Empress State Building 
was acquired during 2013, giving Capco 100 per cent 
ownership of this major offi  ce building at the heart of 
the Earls Court area. Proposals have been submitted for 
a conversion to residential use.
Venues
The performance of Venues in 2013 reﬂ ects the 
continued uncertainty over the Earls Court venue. 
The Olympia venue was rebranded Olympia London, 
following Capco’s signiﬁ cant investment over the 
past three years to prepare it for the full transition of 
the business to this venue. The team has successfully 
negotiated the transfer of a number of shows to 
Olympia from Earls Court for 2015, including the 
International Book Fair and Top Drawer.
Outlook
Capco remains well positioned to create signiﬁ cant 
further value for shareholders from its value growth 
and value creation strategy at Covent Garden and Earls 
Court. The central London property market remains 
strong, and expectations for the economy are positive, 
although the impact of rising interest rates and the 
withdrawal of central bank liquidity will need to be 
carefully monitored. The capital structure remains 
conservative with suffi  cient levels of liquidity 
maintained to manage the increased activity across 
the Group.
At Covent Garden, the focus will continue to be on 
introducing new retail and restaurant brands across 
the estate, and implementing residential conversions 
where appropriate. The Kings Court and Carriage 
Hall schemes off er the potential to transform the 
north-western area of the estate and drive rental 
values. We will continue to redeﬁ ne global luxury in 
London and cement the district’s status as a thriving 
dining destination.
At Earls Court, the detailed planning applications start 
the process of re-imagining the area and creating a 
new neighbourhood where Kensington, Chelsea and 
Fulham meet. The team at Lillie Square is focusing on 
achieving a successful launch shortly .
Ian Hawksworth
Chief Executive
25 February 2014
Market Value 
Dec-13 
£m
Market Value 
Dec-12
£m
Market 
Value 
Change
1,2
ERV
Change
1
Initial
Yield
Equivalent
Yield
Covent Garden 1,156 952 19.2% 11.0% 3.3% 4.7%
Earls Court Properties
EC1 & EC2 453 336 24.0% 
Lillie Square 153
3
104
3
31.1%
Empress State 265 110
3
19.9%
Other 63 25 21.8%
Venues 161 146 6.3%
Other
4
–48 –
Total Property 2,251 1,721 19.9%
1 Like-for-Like
2
 
Valuation change takes account of amortisation of lease incentives, capital expenditure and ﬁ xed head leases.
3
 
Represents Capco’s 50 per cent share.
4 GCP (Capco’s 50 per cent share), in 2013 a discontinued operation.
