 4  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chairman’s statement 2015
“ Our strategic objective has been 
to achieve a balanced and broad 
business. Its successful implementation 
has provided stability in a diffi cult 
and challenging market. In 2015 we 
delivered a robust performance 
and are confi dent of delivering 
shareholder value even in a 
world of continued low oil 
and commodity prices.” 
 Tim Eggar
 Chairman
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per 
share:
29.9p
(2014: 30.0 pence)
Source: Chevron 5  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
A robust performance
2015 has been another year of good progress for Cape. Not only 
has the business delivered a strong set of results in challenging 
markets, but we have also moved forward on a number of our key 
strategic goals.
The benefi ts of our Operational Excellence programme have been 
seen in our performance and have also been recognised by a 
number of our key clients. The implementation of our new systems 
and processes has been an important element in a number of our 
recent successes in securing new work.
Our ambition to grow by expanding our range of services has been 
supported by the ongoing development of the Motherwell Bridge 
tank business both in the UK and Middle East and the acquisition 
during the year of Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited which has 
now been rebranded as Cape Engineering Services Limited (CESL). 
The opportunity to expand the services of these businesses further 
across the Cape Group remains substantial. We have taken the fi rst 
steps towards growth through geographic expansion by opening 
operations in Kuwait and Malaysia. I am confi dent both will deliver 
positive results in the years ahead.
Safety remains our top priority and is at the top of every Board 
agenda. We continue to strive for the highest level of safety 
performance across every one of our operations. I was pleased that 
we achieved a signifi cant improvement in the number of Lost Time 
Incidents during the year even though we saw a slight fall off in our 
Total Recordable Incident Rate.
We expect that 2016 will present additional challenges as market 
conditions are likely to weaken further. Nonetheless, I fi rmly believe 
we have the right strategy and the right team to steer the business 
through these challenges and to deliver long-term growth.
Financial results
In a year of particularly demanding market conditions, it is a 
pleasure to report that Cape has delivered a stable and robust set 
of results. Order intake was strong, demonstrating that our clients 
recognise the value and quality that Cape offers, and as a result we 
fi nished 2015 with a robust order book of £861 million, 18% higher 
than at the end of 2014. We achieved a steady increase in revenue 
of 3% to £711.4 million (2014: £690.5 million), driven by both a solid 
performance in a number of our markets such as the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia (KSA), the Wheatstone contract in Australia and the 
contributions from the new businesses of Motherwell Bridge and 
CESL. With a slight erosion of margin due to market pricing 
pressures, we still delivered a steady result in earnings with 
adjusted diluted EPS only marginally down on the prior year at 
29.9p (2014: 30.0p).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a fi nal dividend for 2015 of 9.5 pence 
(H2 2014: 9.5 pence) refl ecting our confi dence in the delivery of our 
strategy and future prospects of the Group. With the interim dividend 
of 4.5 pence (H1 2014: 4.5 pence) this results in a full year dividend 
of 14.0 pence (2014: 14.0 pence). This is subject to shareholders’ 
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2016 
and the fi nal dividend will be payable on 24 June 2016 to 
shareholders on the register as at 20 May 2016.
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome Samantha Tough, Steve Good and Brian 
Larcombe to the Board. All three bring a wealth of senior leadership 
experience across a range of industries and we are fortunate to be 
able to attract such high quality individuals to the business. 
Samantha has added experience of Australia’s energy, infrastructure 
and natural resources sectors; Steve has brought recent executive 
expertise and knowledge of the chemicals and plastics markets; while 
Brian brings perspectives from private equity and other plc boards.
As previously announced, both Brendan Connolly and Leslie Van 
de Walle decided to step down from the Board to reduce their travel 
time and concentrate on other interests. Both Brendan and Leslie 
played an important part in the transformation of Cape over the last 
three years and I thank both of them for their commitment and 
contribution to the Group. 
Cape people
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all our employees 
on their skill and hard work during 2015. This is refl ected in the 
delivery of good fi nancial results for our shareholders and vindicates 
the drive and dedication shown by all our people. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman
15 March 2016
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015 7  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
8 Our markets
12 Our strategy
14 Our business model
16 Key performance indicators
18 How we manage risk
20 Principal risks and viability
26 Chief Executive’s review
30 Business review
36 Chief Financial Offi cer’s review
40 Corporate and social responsibility
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
