 8 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive
“ Capco’s clear and focused 
business model and strategy 
have delivered strong results 
in 2012 and the assets 
continue to off er the 
potential for outperformance 
going forward.”
ground level has enabled the strategy to 
expand into premium residential conversions 
of the upper ﬂ oors. This has continued to 
deliver value uplift with the overall estate 
valued at £952 million, an increase of 7 .2 per 
cent on a like-for-like basis. 
In line with the successful repositioning 
strategy at Covent Garden, the equity placing 
in September raised capital for further 
investment in the district. The ERV target was 
also revised to £60-65 million by the end of 
2015. In 2012 £89 million of acquisitions were 
completed growing Capco’s ownership in the 
area by 13 per cent, creating a scale in line with 
historic London landed estates. 
Capco’s active asset management approach 
achieved landmark lettings including the ﬁ rst 
permanent stand alone fragrance and beauty 
concept from Chanel and a ﬂ agship store for 
Jo Malone. Balthazar, Keith McNally’s French 
brasserie concept backed by Caprice Holdings, 
opened in February 2013. Further growth is 
expected through the tenant engineering 
strategy which drives the continued 
repositioning of other areas of the estate as 
well as the introduction of new larger-scale 
developments and interventions. 
2012 was a year of continued progress for 
Capco as our focus on unlocking value 
generated further momentum to deliver 
superior returns for shareholders. Capco has 
a clear business model focusing on retail and 
residential London property . This delivered 
signiﬁ cant uplift at the Group level, with 
adjusted NAV per share up 22 per cent. 
Capco’s creative asset management and 
place-making skills at Covent Garden 
continued to drive value, whilst our ability 
to deliver complex planning projects was 
evident in the signiﬁ cant milestones achieved 
with the Earls Court Masterplan and Seagrave 
Road project in 2012. 
A strong balance sheet allowing Capco to retain 
high levels of liquidity alongside conservative 
gearing ratios underpins Capco’s estate 
strategies. This year £320 million was realised 
mainly from disposals within the non-core 
investments of GCP and China as well as the 
completion of the Seagrave Road joint venture. 
In May , a new ﬁ ve-year £70 million revolving 
credit facility was agreed, establishing a more 
ﬂ exible ﬁ nancing structure, and in September, 
the equity placing raised gross proceeds of 
£149 million to be invested in Covent Garden.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 
Valuations
The Group beneﬁ ted from strong 
revaluations across its business during 2012, 
with a like-for-like valuation increase of 16.7 
per cent representing the main component of 
a total property return of 21.7 per cent.
Covent Garden increased in value reﬂ ecting 
rental growth as well as the continued strong 
demand for prime assets from a wide range of 
investors. The Earls Court and Seagrave Road 
land interests experienced a signiﬁ cant 
valuation increase due to the positive 
momentum of each project as well as the 
strong central London residential market. 
Other assets, mainly comprising Empress 
State and the last remaining asset in GCP , 
increased in value reﬂ ecting the strong 
investment market for those properties.
Covent Garden
Since taking ownership in 2006 over 50 new 
brands have opened in the Covent Garden 
area making it one of London’s most vibrant 
estates. There have been a number of new 
lettings in 2013 demonstrating continued 
demand for space on the estate. The successful 
introduction of new retail and dining at the 
DRIVING PROGRESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 WWW.CAPITALANDCOUNTIES.COM
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS
Earls Court & Olympia
The Earls Court Masterplan received resolutions 
to grant outline planning consent from the 
London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham 
(LBHF) and the Royal Borough of Kensington 
& Chelsea (RBKC) in September and November 
respectively . We are now working towards 
obtaining formal planning consent in the ﬁ rst 
half of 2013, which will require the issue of 
the Stage Two report by the Greater London 
Authority (GLA) and ﬁ nalisation of the Section 
106 agreements. The valuation of Capco’ s Earls 
Court interests has increased considerably to 
£336 million as at December 2012, an increase 
of 58 per cent in 2012. 
Formal planning consent for the Seagrave 
Road development was received in March. 
The 50:50 joint venture with the KFI in 
respect of this project completed in August 
realising net cash proceeds to Capco of £65 
million. The joint venture has now moved 
into its implementation phase, resulting in 
certain proposed enhancements to the design 
of the scheme as well as a detailed planning 
application to extend the scheme up to Lillie 
Road which will be submitted shortly to 
LBHF . The sales and marketing strategy is 
being ﬁ nalised with a view to launching the 
scheme in the next 12 months. The progress in 
taking forward this project has led to Capco’s 
50 per cent interest increasing in value by 62 
per cent (on a like-for-like basis) during 2012 
to £104 million.
In January 2013, the Conditional Land Sale 
Agreement (CLSA) was signed with LBHF 
enabling the inclusion of its land in a 
comprehensive redevelopment of the Earls 
Court & West Kensington Opportunity Area 
(ECOA). The Council is applying for approval 
of this deal from the Secretary of State and a 
decision is expected in the coming months. 
Discussions continue with Transport for 
London (TfL) for a regear of Capco’s existing 
leasehold interests at Earls Court, as this was 
not concluded in 2012.
Olympia has offi  cially relaunched as Olympia 
London following a signiﬁ cant £30 million 
investment over the past two years. It will be 
the focus of the Group’s exhibitions business, 
providing dynamic and ﬂ exible events space to 
cater for the needs of the exhibitions industry . 
OPPORTUNITIES AND OUTLOOK
Capco is well positioned within its core 
central London retail and residential property 
markets, and our assets continue to off er the 
potential for outperformance going forward. 
The fundamental drivers of long-term growth 
in London are strong, however we remain 
mindful of the short-term risks presented 
by the challenging macroeconomic conditions 
as we progress our plans. 
In Covent Garden we will continue the creative 
place-making, active asset management and 
strategic acquisitions as well as initiating 
selective development. At Earls Court, we will 
look to deliver the formal planning consents 
for the Earls Court Masterplan, create the 
detailed design of the ﬁ rst phase of the 
redevelopment and ﬁ nalise a transaction with 
TfL in relation to our land interests whilst 
assisting the local authorities as appropriate 
to respond to the judicial review challenges 
faced. The Seagrave Road project will focus 
on achieving a successful launch under its 
new branding of Lillie Square. 
Ian Hawksworth
Chief Executive
28 February 2013
VALUATION
Market value
Dec-12
£m
Market value
Dec-11
£m
Market
Value
change 
1,2
ERV
change 
1
Initial
yield
Equivalent
yield
Covent Garden 952 808 7.2% 4.2% 3.8% 5.1%
Earls Court 336 195 57.6%
Seagrave Road 104
3
 116 61.5%
Olympia London 126 121 (4.1)%
Other 
4
203 384 9.8%
Total Properties 1,721 1,624 16.7%
1 Like-for-Like
2 Valuation change takes account of amortisation of lease incentives, capital expenditure and ﬁ xed head leases.
3 Represents Capco’s 50 per cent share.
4 GCP (Capco’s 50 per cent share), Empress State Building (Capco’s 50 per cent share) and peripheral assets.
