 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Build to Last:  
 transforming the business
Balfour Beatty’s underlying 
performance has been declining 
since 2010, with the sharpest  
and most noticeable decline 
occurring over the last 12 months. 
This has been caused not only  
by the significant operational 
issues impacting the UK 
construction business over the 
last two years, but also because 
the cost base of the Group is too 
high. There have been significant 
working capital outflows since 
2009. This trajectory has made  
it imperative to identify and 
address the key issues rapidly,  
in order to begin at once to 
restore the Group to strength.
Understanding the problems
Over the last few months,  
independent reviews have been  
underway on operations that account  
for 70% of the Group by turnover and  
the remainder should be underway  
by the end of the summer. Already  
it is clear from the outputs – as well  
as from wide-ranging discussions with  
senior operational leaders – that the root 
cause lies in the Group’s rapid fourfold 
revenue expansion since 2000, largely  
by acquisitions which were insufficiently 
integrated. This resulted in an overly 
complex, devolved organisation with  
poor controls and weak disciplines  
in cost control and project bidding. 
Following a major industry downturn, the 
UK construction business was extensively 
restructured in successive waves and 
began to exhibit serious project issues 
which, together with other factors, 
resulted in substantial operating losses  
for the Group. The cost base remains  
too high, with Group-wide overheads 
approximately 1% of revenue above 
industry benchmarks.
Importantly, however, the Group retains 
many core strengths: a strong brand and 
reputation underpinned by market-leading 
and innovative engineering capability, 
deep customer relationships as 
demonstrated by important recent 
contract awards, geographic span and 
scale, and the commitment of a talented 
and dedicated workforce. The business 
model also balances Construction 
Services and Support Services with a 
successful Infrastructure Investments 
business which will continue to create 
significant value. This Investments 
business provides an important anchor  
to the Group’s balance sheet and profits, 
while creating real and substantial 
opportunities for the Construction 
Services operations in the UK and North 
America and Support Services in the UK.
Although the majority of legacy problem 
contracts should be completed during the 
current year, major challenges remain and 
the cultural transformation will take longer. 
The key is that we have made a good start 
and our transformation programme, called 
Build to Last, is gaining rapid traction.
Build to Last
In mid February 2015 the Group  
launched its Build to Last programme.  
This is designed to address the Group’s 
performance as it affects all stakeholders 
– customers and supply chain, employees 
and subcontractors, investors and 
communities – by driving continuous, 
measurable improvement against  
four goals: Lean, Expert, Trusted, Safe.
Lean
Deliver rapid performance improvement 
by strengthening operational and financial 
controls, and transparency and simplifying 
the organisation with detailed indirect cost 
reduction plans, plus the launch of the My 
Contribution productivity initiative across 
the whole organisation. Similarly, apply 
these processes to lean out delivery for our 
customers of our value added capability, 
eliminating waste (Zero Waste) in scheduling 
and materials. Metric: operating profit and 
operating cash generation. 
Expert
Customers value our engineering,  
design and delivery capability. We will 
attract, retain and develop key employees 
and subcontractors in an increasingly 
competitive environment by investing  
in training and talent to enhance the  
Group’s engineering, design and project 
management and delivery capability. 
Metric: annual engagement survey and 
employee retention. 
Trusted 
Deliver on our promises through 
strengthening the successful execution  
of projects and services through 
disciplined stage-gated bidding, 
contracting and risk review processes. 
Metric: customer satisfaction. 
Safe
Nothing is more important. If we are  
not safe we are not in business. Safety  
is a non-negotiable licence to operate  
– at all levels and for all employees, 
subcontractors, customers and 
communities. Metric: Zero Harm.
 Read more on p10
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6 Initial phase – self-help
Over the next two years we should work 
through the severe legacy of “problem” 
construction projects. However, in tackling 
the cultural change required to ensure 
these issues are behind us, we face major 
short-term challenges. The key is that we 
are determined to address this through 
self-help. Our transformation programme, 
Build to Last, is gaining rapid traction and 
we are driving initial improvements of 
£200 million cash in, £100 million cost  
out over 24 months. In addition, our 
Investments portfolio will provide the 
financial flexibility of both reliable income 
and the sale of maturing assets into a 
strong market.
To maintain balance sheet strength 
throughout this period, we have already 
cancelled the share buyback and rephased 
our pension fund payments with the 
support of the Trustee. We have also 
decided not to recommend a final dividend 
this year, but expect to reinstate the 
dividend at an appropriate level by  
March 2016.
Over time the aim is to bring each 
business unit to sustainable industry-
standard performance in what appears  
to be a beneficial market environment, 
creating substantial value for the  
Group’s shareholders.
Actions underway
Successfully delivering the Build to Last 
goals will require leadership, rigorous 
implementation and intensive focus  
on disciplined contracting processes.  
A programme office has been set up  
with UK and US workstreams and a 
benefits tracking system. Following the 
announcements of a new Chairman,  
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer to strengthen the Board, new 
senior appointments include global leaders 
for IT, commercial and project execution, 
and business process re-engineering.  
In addition, senior leadership within the  
UK Regional and Engineering Services 
businesses will be strengthened by the 
appointment of a new chief operating 
officer. All senior management incentives 
have been matched to key programme 
goals. The Group-wide cash generation 
drive has been rolled out with planning  
and training to project level. In the UK, 
enabling functions – those not related to 
front-line delivery – are being consolidated 
to remove duplication and improve 
efficiency, to deliver significant cost 
takeout. The Group’s property portfolio  
is being streamlined to reduce overheads 
and detailed procurement initiatives, 
commencing with key suppliers and areas 
of direct and indirect spend, will deliver 
meaningful and growing savings. 
All of this demonstrates the scale of 
opportunity to drive major near-term 
improvements in cash generation and 
profitability. At the same time, Build to 
Last is also about relentlessly holding 
course. The objective is to shape a  
Group leading in its core markets and 
“The Build to Last 
programme is designed 
to ensure that Balfour 
Beatty can also build to 
last for itself, starting 
with the right 
foundations.”
differentiated by best-in-class expertise,  
a lean innovative supply chain and robust 
execution. For over 100 years – and 
throughout all of its recent problems – 
Balfour Beatty has been delivering  
major projects for its customers and 
communities – lasting infrastructure that 
shapes and improves people’s daily lives. 
The Build to Last programme is designed  
to ensure that Balfour Beatty can also 
build to last for itself, starting with the 
right foundations.
I remain convinced that all our operations 
can achieve industry-standard performance 
as markets improve. The real prize is a 
sustainable return to profitable growth, 
built on the Group’s unique capabilities but 
underpinned by leaner, stronger processes 
and flawless execution.
Longer term we want to make Balfour 
Beatty a leader in its core markets, 
delivering superior returns to the  
benefit of our customers, employees  
and shareholders.
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
 “The Investments portfolio 
provides an important 
anchor to the Group’s 
balance sheet and profits.”
 Read more on p27
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 7
