 Asia Pacific
MENA
Adjusted operating profit by region 
UK, Europe & CIS
6.9 2015
6.8 2014
25.4 2015
21.1 2014
34.5 2015
38.5 2014
2  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Cape at a glance
Our international footprint
People are at the heart of our business. We employ 
c. 16,400 employees around the world. Our people 
are pivotal to the success of Cape and our core 
values encapsulate the behaviours that drive our 
long term success. 
16,400
Total employees
5,200
UK, Europe & CIS employees
8,900
MENA employees
2,300
Asia Pacifi c employees 3  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our services
Cape targets its services to the industrial sector where our 
operational excellence and safety focus carries a premium. 
Access
Cape has been a leading supplier of scaffold and alternative access 
equipment and services such as rope access to onshore and offshore 
industrial clients for over 30 years. As well as attracting and training 
multi-skilled access personnel to the highest standards, we also have 
in-house designers for complex requirements and rope access 
specialists with full IRATA membership. 
Insulation
We have more than 50 years’ international experience working in high 
and low temperature insulation, which gives our clients confi dence in 
our expertise and understanding of potentially hazardous environments 
and our ability to manage them safely and cost-effectively. Cape has a 
particular expertise in cryogenic insulation for LNG plants. 
Specialist coatings and fi re proofi ng
Cape provides preparation and coating across a wide range of 
applications including clean rooms, shipyards, petrochemical plants, 
LNG plants and more, both onshore and offshore. Our skilled specialist 
teams also provide a range of fi reproofi ng techniques, including cement 
and fi brous sprays, fi re cladding and intumescent coatings.
Oil and gas storage tanks
As one of the world’s leading operators in this highly specialised fi eld, 
Motherwell Bridge offers comprehensive storage tank services, 
including storage tank design, engineering, manufacture, construction, 
repair and maintenance for site-built, above ground storage tanks.
Mechanical services
With the acquisition of Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, now 
renamed Cape Engineering Services Limited, Cape provides a range 
of mechanical and engineering services, primarily to the UK market. 
Our capabilities include project management, structural steelwork, 
pipework repair and fabrication and related engineering services. 
Refractory lining
Cape has a world leading capability in both the design and installation 
of refractory materials, providing these services to clients around the 
world. Engineering capability is provided across the Group by our 
centre of excellence based in the UK. 
Environmental services
Cape provides a range of specialist industrial cleaning services across 
both onshore and offshore assets. These specialist services meet strict 
regulatory standards and enable our clients to operate their process 
plant to maximum effi ciency. 
Heat exchanger replacement and refurbishment
Cape provides both on-site and off-site overhaul of heat exchangers 
both onshore and offshore using our experienced workforce backed up 
by a dedicated facility in Scotland. 
Our sectors
Oil and gas
Split of revenue: £393m 55%
Over half of Group revenues are derived from the oil and gas sector 
both onshore and offshore, predominantly for the midstream and 
downstream sectors. Cape provides a range of multi-disciplinary 
services to both existing assets and new construction projects. 
Cape’s success is based on the long-term relationships we have 
built with our clients and on our reputation for excellence in delivery, 
providing a safe and effi cient service that delivers value for our clients. 
Our client base includes National and International Oil Companies 
who operate existing assets as well as Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction companies (EPCs) who undertake the new 
construction projects. 
Power generation
Split of revenue: £100m 14%
Cape offers exceptional experience and expertise in the UK power 
generation sector, as well as an ability to deliver a rapid emergency 
response to repairs and plant defects anywhere in the country. 
In the UK, Cape supports and maintains all main types of power 
generation plant.
Chemical and steel 
Split of revenue: £106m 15%
Cape provides a wide range of multi-disciplinary services across 
industrial plants including extensive access and insulation support to 
the construction and maintenance of major chemical, petrochemical, 
polymer and steel production plants, including the engineering, 
supply and installation of specialist gasholders for the steel industry. 
Mining
Split of revenue: £27m 4%
Cape provides expertise in the mining sector across construction 
support services and key maintenance services to clients. Cape’s 
multi-disciplinary approach helps reduce operational costs and 
eradicate waste, while enhancing effi ciency, productivity and safety. 
Other 
Split of revenue: £85m 12%
Cape also has an international presence in several other sectors, 
including the marine construction market, where Cape provides 
services supporting naval projects around the world and in other 
industrial areas where the Group’s specialist services provides 
environmental cleaning to a variety of other sectors including the 
pharmaceutical and food industries. Cape’s clients rely on the 
Group’s expertise and emphasis on safety to support large, secure 
industrial assets.
For more information:
Our markets 
Page 8
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
