 understanding our business
10 
Progressing the business  
at an ambitious pace
CHIEF Ex ECuTIVE ’S REVIEW
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive
The transformation of Covent Garden into one of the most 
vibrant retail and leisure destinations in London continues 
to create value and attract new brands, whilst the recent 
resolution to grant planning consent for our Seagrave Road 
development is an important milestone in our progress 
with the Earls Court Masterplan following the submission 
of our planning applications in June. I am confident that 
Capco’ s place-making vision, creative teams and central 
London-focused assets will provide considerable 
opportunities in both the retail and residential markets 
during 2012.  
Driven by our ambitions to be a creative 
place-maker, our focused strategy has allowed 
us to make great progress against our objectives 
both at Group level and in our estates.
Capco has had an active and successful 2011.  
We undertook a £100 million equity placing, 
raised £300 million of new debt facilities to 
extend the Group’s debt maturity profile, 
acquired £113 million of properties to expand 
Covent Garden, released £103 million from  
The Great Capital Partnership and China, 
submitted planning applications covering  
over 11 million square feet for the Earls Court 
Masterplan and Seagrave Road, and agreed a 
strategic joint venture for Seagrave Road with 
the shareholders of one of Hong Kong’s largest 
and most reputable real estate companies. Our 
activities have led to strong value creation for 
our shareholders, with net asset value per  
share rising 11.7 per cent and the share price 
increasing 23 per cent. 
This performance reflects the strategic 
positioning of Capco in dominant estates with 
particular exposure to the central London retail 
and residential markets. Central London 
continues to attract a deep pool of occupiers 
and investors from around the world, and our 
strategy is focused on transforming districts 
to meet this demand.
Operating and financial 
perfOrmance
The value of our properties increased strongly 
over 2011, with a rise of 9.2 per cent in capital 
values on a like-for-like basis, compared to  
the u K IPD capital value index which rose  
1.2 per cent.
covent garden
Capco has transformed Covent Garden into 
one of the most exciting retail, leisure and 
residential districts in London. The estate is 
now valued at £808 million, with an increase 
in like-for-like property values of 9.2 per cent 
during 2011 driven by like-for-like ERV 
growth of 8.8 per cent.
We delivered the 2012 ERV target of £40 
million 18 months ahead of schedule. On 
the back of this, we have set a challenging 
but achievable target of £50 million for 2013, 
as we aim to close the gap in rental values 
between Covent Garden and other parts of 
prime central London. 
In May we raised £100 million through an 
equity issue. The proceeds allowed the Group 
to extend its footprint in the estate from 
750,000 square feet to over 830,000 square 
feet, with several important new acquisitions.  our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements understanding our business
11 www.capitalandcounties.com 
market 
value 
dec-11 
£m
market 
value 
dec-10 
£m
market 
value
change
2,3
erv
change
2
initial 
Yield
equivalent 
Yield
Covent Garden 808 640 9.2% 8.8% 3.77% 5.25%
The Great Capital 
Partnership
1
241 260 9.8% 11.4% 3.93% 5.05%
Empress State
1
103 103 – – 6.69% 6.18%
Total non-exhibition 
properties 1,152 1,003 8.4% 8.4%
EC&O Venues 471 378 10.9%
Total investment 
properties 1,623 1,381 9.2%
1 Represents Capco’s 50 per cent share. 
2  Like-for-like. 
3  Valuation change takes account of amortisation of lease incentives, capital expenditure and fixed head leases.
Alongside the continued focus on the retail 
and food and beverage mix, Capco is seeking  
to return the estate to its roots as London’s 
original luxury address. The four high-
specification apartments at The Henrietta, 
located on the corner of Henrietta Street and 
the Piazza, were recently brought to market 
and are of a quality consistent with the best 
high-end residential developments in London. 
For more details see pages 18 to 25.
earls court and Olympia
Earls Court and Olympia, excluding Empress 
State, increased in value by 10.9 per cent 
during 2011, reflecting the investment in all 
parts of the estate. 
The Group has made significant progress in 
the past 12 months in respect of its holdings 
in Earls Court. Sir Terry Farrell’s Masterplan, 
launched in March, based around his vision of 
‘Four urban Villages and a 21st Century High 
Street’ , provides a blueprint for a multi-
billion pound investment in both the local 
community and London as a whole. In June 
the Group submitted outline planning 
applications for the whole scheme, and a 
detailed application for a residential scheme 
at Seagrave Road – a total of 11 million square 
feet of new space across 77 acres. The Seagrave 
Road project received a resolution to grant 
consent in February 2012. 
The Group’s interests at Earls Court have been 
revalued from £138 million to £195 million, 
implying a valuation of £8.6 million per acre 
across the Group’s 23 acres at Earls Court. The 
independent valuer has changed the basis of 
valuation to a land valuation having regard  
for redevelopment potential in light of the 
progress through the planning process, and 
this marks a change from the previous existing 
use basis. Seagrave Road increased in value 
during 2011 by £11 million to £116 million and 
in December a 50:50 conditional joint venture 
for the site was agreed with the Kwok Family 
Interests at £131 million. Our events business  
at Earls Court and Olympia performed well  
in a challenging market, with EBITDA falling 
only 2 per cent to £18.5 million. We invested 
£20 million in the West Hall redevelopment  
at Olympia. Earls Court is an official Olympic 
venue, hosting the volleyball tournament  
this summer . 
For more details see pages 26 to 33.
the great capital partnership
The refocusing of The Great Capital 
Partnership (GCP) into a core of Regent Street 
and Piccadilly holdings has resulted in strong 
ERV and valuation growth. The disposal of 
properties in Kensington and midtown 
realised £48 million, which the Group has 
recycled into its core activities at Covent 
Garden and Earls Court. The sale of further 
properties this year will allow this capital 
recycling to continue in 2012.
china
The strong domestic economy and  
continued appreciation of Chinese RMB 
against the u S dollar benefited the Group’s 
investments in China. The fund manager, 
Harvest Capital Partners, has completed the 
sale of a number of the funds’ underlying 
investments. A total of £55 million has been 
realised for the Group from these disposals 
reflecting a substantial profit. 
For more details on GCP and China see  
pages 34 to 37 .
OppOrtunities and OutlOOk
The Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations 
and the Olympics will place a spotlight on 
London in 2012, allowing it to demonstrate 
its attractions to a global audience. This  
should benefit the Group which is focused  
on landmark locations across the capital, 
although the operational challenges of these 
events for a central London business should  
not be underestimated.
Covent Garden is now a destination of choice 
for flagship retail brands. The team is focused 
on capitalising upon this to deliver the £50 
million ERV target for the end of 2013. Further 
conversions of office space to high-quality 
apartments will unlock additional value.
The immediate focus for the Earls Court 
Masterplan remains on obtaining planning 
consents, together with concluding land 
transactions with TfL and LBHF . The 
relationship with the Kwok Family Interests 
will develop during the course of the year as 
Seagrave Road becomes a development project.
At EC&O Venues, there is likely to be some 
short-term impact at Earls Court, due to the 
uncertainty caused by the Masterplan. 
Following the successful disposal of properties 
from GCP and in China, further opportunities 
for reinvestment and capital recycling back into 
the core business will be pursued.
Capco is well positioned to maintain its 
momentum as the strong performance of 
London real estate is expected to continue. 
The macroeconomic headwinds demonstrate 
some of the more visible risks we face, and 
hence we remain focused on executing our 
strategy across the business as we believe this 
will best deliver market-leading total returns 
to our shareholders. I am confident that our 
place-making vision, creative teams and 
central London-focused assets will provide 
considerable opportunity in both the retail 
and residential markets during 2012. 
Ian Hawksworth
Chief Executive
29 February 2012
