 CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
2014: a challenging 
and redefining year
Continuing issues within the UK 
construction business made 2014 
a challenging and ultimately 
redefining year for the Group. 
Robust judgements and rapid decisions 
were required: gripping, scoping, reviewing 
and providing for the very significant levels 
of write-downs that emerged from the  
UK construction business. There were 
important changes in strategic direction 
and in executive management, and also 
the proposed merger with Carillion plc.
Such was the pace of events and change 
that these seem improbable when listed 
chronologically. The Board met 26 times 
during the year and at every stage the 
Board remained focused on how best  
to secure both present and future 
shareholder value. 
UK construction performance
The performance of parts of our UK 
construction business during 2014 has 
undoubtedly been very poor, having a 
materially negative impact on the results  
for the whole Group. Total loss from 
operations over the year, including the 
further provisions now announced, 
amounted to £281 million. This is a matter 
of considerable regret to all concerned, 
most especially the Board of Directors  
and myself as Chairman. Problems were 
mostly confined to the Engineering 
Services and Regional parts of the 
business operating in London and the 
South West of England.
KPMG’s independent review identified 
three main dominant causes. Firstly, 
tendering for certain lump sum fixed-price 
projects at very low margins at the bottom 
of the market, assuming optimistic buying 
gains which didn’t materialise as costs 
escalated during the course of the project, 
leading to losses. Secondly, inadequate 
commercial and contract management 
processes, and a lack of management 
supervision, led to poor control over 
projects and failures to recover genuine 
contract entitlements. Thirdly, poor cost  
and programme forecasting, leading to 
insufficient visibility on project deterioration. 
In this part of the Group, we saw failures  
of risk management, and the control 
environment, particularly commercial and 
operational controls, was not effective. 
These were compounded by continuous 
upheaval, with substantial people changes 
in the UK construction business. 
More details of KPMG’s independent 
review and resulting actions are in the 
operational review on page 19 and the  
risk management section on page 30.
The deterioration in performance started 
before 2014, as many of the 45 problem 
projects were tendered or started during 
2012 and 2013. The majority of these are 
expected to be operationally complete  
by the end of 2015.
The Board has considered the need for 
further provisions in addition to those 
announced in January 2015, and 
concluded that a further £118 million 
write-down is appropriate, having 
reviewed both individual contracts and 
also the rest of the portfolio by taking  
a risk-based approach 
These issues are localised and fixable,  
but it will take time to work through legacy 
contracts and uncertainty remains. New 
Group Chief Executive Leo Quinn has a 
transformation programme for the whole 
Group, with phase 1 targeting £100 million 
of cost reductions and £200 million of cash 
flow improvements versus 2014.
Sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
The Board’s strategic review concluded 
during Q1 2014, ahead of any knowledge 
of further UK construction write-downs, 
that the Group had become too complex, 
stretching financial and managerial 
resources, and diluting strategic focus. 
And whilst the Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) 
business was of high quality, it required 
substantial investment and its Group 
synergies were modest. 
The Board announced in May its intention 
to sell PB, subject to an excellent price 
being achieved. It was. Following a highly 
competitive auction, the sale completed  
in October for gross proceeds of US$1.35 
billion, roughly doubling its value during its 
five years under Group ownership.  
93% of voting shareholders supported  
the Board in approving the sale. 
Taking decisive action
In light of further write-downs, and  
its desire to accelerate refocusing and 
simplifying the Group, the Board decided 
Chief Executive Andrew McNaughton 
should step down on 3 May 2014.  
I was asked to step in to progress  
the following priorities:
1. Recruit an experienced, top-flight 
Chief Executive from outside the 
Group with strong turnaround 
credentials. 
Outcome: Leo Quinn started as Group 
Chief Executive on 1 January 2015.
2. Deliver a competitive sale process  
to enable PB to be sold at compelling 
shareholder value. 
Outcome: PB was sold for US$1.35 billion 
in cash (gross proceeds) in October 2014. 
3. Further underpin shareholder value 
by revaluing the Investments portfolio 
and enhancing awareness of its 
intrinsic value. 
Outcome: the Directors’ valuation was 
increased from £766 million at December 
2013 to £1,050 million at June 2014; and 
£1.3 billion at December 2014. This was 
reviewed and supported independently. 
The value of the future pipeline is estimated 
by the Board at a further 10–15% of the 
Directors’ valuation, demonstrating how 
integral this business is to the Group.
4. Progress management actions to 
stabilise the underperforming parts  
of the UK construction business.
Outcome: despite the recovery plans  
by new UK operational management, 
more losses emerged. In October the 
Board appointed KPMG to review the UK 
construction business and the conclusions 
were published in January 2015. The 
Board has made further provisions at  
2014 year end of £118 million.
5. Simplify and de-risk the Group’s 
international and rail businesses in 
territories where it lacked sufficient 
critical mass or delivery capability. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
4 Outcome: concluded disposal of rail 
businesses in Austria and Germany (track 
and plant); terminated US$1.5 billion of 
bids in markets as diverse as Indonesia, 
Canada and Denmark. Group risk 
management oversight tightened and 
made more challenging.
Approach by Carillion plc
The initial approach by Carillion plc was 
opportunistic, coinciding with the frenetic 
activity described above, including the PB 
sale; all at a time when the Group lacked a 
permanent Chief Executive. The Board still 
concluded it was in shareholders’ interests 
to evaluate the approach, provided key 
parameters were agreed to by Carillion 
upfront. Critically, these included achieving  
a significant valuation premium for Balfour 
Beatty shareholders, and Carillion’s explicit 
support for the PB disposal, with proceeds 
to be retained within the combined 
business. Key terms were agreed in 
writing and the Board engaged to jointly 
evaluate the possible benefits of an 
all-share merger. 
Whilst joint working was underway,  
and despite a joint public announcement  
a week earlier, Carillion surprisingly 
withdrew its support for the sale of PB. 
This eroded trust and confidence. The 
Board also concluded that the combined 
business plan prepared by Carillion 
management had very significant delivery 
and financial risks. There was also a real 
risk that any agreed transaction might be 
aborted before it was consummated, given 
the uncertainty regarding Balfour Beatty’s 
UK construction business. Unfortunately, 
this proved more than prescient. 
The Board engaged for the right reasons, 
recognising the obvious risks. It also 
withdrew for the right reasons, given 
Directors were unable to recommend  
the merger transaction as being in 
shareholders’ interests.
Results for the year
Profitability was materially impacted  
by the significant UK construction 
write-downs. Conversely, the year end 
balance sheet benefited from the receipt  
of the PB sale proceeds.
Loss from continuing operations was  
£281 million (2013: £33 million). The 
underlying loss per share for total 
operations was 8.0p (2013: earnings 
21.5p). Total loss per share was  
8.6p (2013: 5.1p).
The Group had year end net cash of  
£219 million; a strong balance sheet position 
despite continuing underlying cash outflow 
in the construction businesses.
The performance of the UK construction 
business is covered in more detail on 
pages 18 to 20. Profitability in the US 
construction business increased slightly 
and order book intake is growing amid 
signs of market recovery. Support Services 
maintained revenue levels but saw a small 
decline in profits and margin. Infrastructure 
Investments increased both profits and  
the value of the portfolio.
Share buyback and dividend 
In order to maintain a strong balance 
sheet, the Board decided to cancel the 
proposed £200 million share buyback 
following the PB disposal, and to rephase 
pension fund payments. Whilst the Board 
recognises the importance of the dividend, 
it will not recommend a final dividend  
but will look to reinstate dividends at an 
appropriate level by March 2016.
Health and safety
During the year, six workers lost their lives 
across the Group. There is renewed focus 
on fatal risks and health and safety targets 
have been revised. The primary KPI for 
safety has changed to Lost Time Injury 
Rate, which is a more thorough indicator. 
From 2015, the Group will be redoubling 
efforts on Zero Harm programmes. 
Board and executive management
Andrew McNaughton stepped down as 
Chief Executive after a 17-year career with 
Balfour Beatty and goes with our thanks 
and best wishes.
Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas resigned 
from the Board in November 2014.
The appointment of Leo Quinn as Group 
Chief Executive from 1 January 2015 is  
a major step forward. He was previously 
CEO of Qinetiq plc and prior to that at  
“A new executive  
team and a refreshed 
Board is now 
substantially in place  
and they have the 
privilege of taking 
Balfour Beatty  
forward to its  
next chapter.”
De La Rue plc. Leo sets out his initial 
priorities on pages 6 to 7. His appointment 
has enabled the intended reshaping and 
refreshing of the Board to progress rapidly.
It is a pleasure to welcome Philip Aiken  
as Balfour Beatty’s new Chairman from  
26 March 2015, when I will step down  
after 10 years on the Board. After 34 years 
with the Company, including 24 years as a 
Director, Peter Zinkin retires from the Board 
in March 2015. His commitment to the 
business has been unparalled and he leaves 
with our thanks and very best wishes.
Duncan Magrath leaves the Group in  
May 2015, after seven years as Chief 
Financial Officer. He steps down with the 
Board’s best wishes and I add my personal 
thanks to Duncan for the huge personal 
commitment he has made to the Group 
during the last year in particular.
We are very pleased to welcome Philip 
Harrison who will be joining the Board as 
the new Chief Financial Officer. Philip is 
currently CFO of Hogg Robinson Group, 
and prior to that was CFO of VT Group.
Balfour Beatty’s future
The Group has been significantly 
simplified and refocused. At its heart  
is an Anglo-American construction and 
construction services presence with 
strong local market positions and deep 
engineering expertise. The Group has 
further construction capability through  
its South East Asia and Middle East  
joint ventures. Following the sale of PB, 
the Group has a strong balance sheet, 
underpinned by the valuable Investments 
business and the benefits it provides 
across the Group. 
A new executive team and a refreshed 
Board is now substantially in place and 
they have the privilege of taking Balfour 
Beatty forward to its next chapter.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 5
