 6 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DELIVERING VALUE
Ian Durant, Chairman
“ Capco is well positioned to 
maintain its momentum 
following a year of progress 
and value creation.”
Capco’s strong performance in 2012 continues 
the positive momentum generated since the 
Company was established in 2010. Over this 
period, the Company has delivered market 
leading returns to its shareholders as a result 
of a focus on executing its strategy of unlocking 
value across its business supported by eff ective 
capital management. 
At the asset level Covent Garden has performed 
well with the continued evolution of the tenant 
mix and expansion of the estate through key 
acquisitions. An equity placing in September 
raised £149 million of new capital to support 
this strategy . Key planning milestones for the 
Earls Court Masterplan have been achieved 
alongside formal planning consent and the 
formation of a joint venture to develop the 
Seagrave Road project. This year has also seen 
continued reallocation of capital from non-core 
assets, particularly from GCP , to Earls Court 
and Covent Garden. 
The Olympic Games were a highlight of 2012, 
and I am pleased that our Earls Court venue 
was the host of the successful volleyball 
tournament which attracted over half a 
million visitors.
Engagement with the communities in which 
the Company operates complements the 
strategy and has been an area of much activity 
during 2012. Our entrepreneurial and diverse 
company culture is essential to the creative 
approach to place-making and the Corporate 
Responsibility (CR) strategy . Events such as 
TOTAL RETURN
22.6%
DIVIDEND
1.5p
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
50
100
150
200
250
300
31 December 2012 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 10 May 2010
Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7 WWW.CAPITALANDCOUNTIES.COM
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS
the Poppy Appeal in Covent Garden and the 
ongoing Earls Court Education Project show 
commitment to embedding the CR strategy 
in the areas in which the Company operates, 
whilst initiatives including volunteer days 
are undertaken by staff  throughout the year. 
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS 
In 2012 Capco delivered strong results 
with a total return of 22.6 per cent. EPRA 
adjusted, diluted NAV per share was the main 
component of this, rising from 167 pence to 
203 pence driven by the increase in valuation 
of the assets which were up 16.7 per cent on a 
like-for-like basis. Total shareholder return 
was 32.1 per cent. It should be noted that these 
results have been achieved with exceptionally 
low leverage; at December 2012 the Group’s 
LTV was 10 per cent.
I would like to thank the Executive 
Directors and all staff  for their hard work 
and commitment over the past year which 
has contributed to this strong performance. 
The Directors propose a ﬁ nal dividend 
of 1.0 pence per share, bringing the total 
dividend paid and payable for 2012 to 
1.5 pence per share. 
GOVERNANCE 
The Board has established an open culture 
which encourages dialogue and debate 
between the Executive and Non-executive 
Directors. The values of the Board in regard to 
both governance and corporate responsibility 
are embedded throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has had a busy year of 
diligent oversight of the controls, risks and 
reporting, thus assuring the Board that the 
Company’s reporting is balanced, consistent 
and compliant. The Remuneration Committee 
has committed much time and eff ort to its 
review of Executive remuneration in 2012, 
and I am grateful to the Committee members 
for their contribution. The Committee has 
had a diffi  cult job in reconciling the views of 
a minority of shareholders and its conclusions 
are described on pages 59 to 75. 
As stated in the 2011 report, the diversity 
and composition of the Board have 
been reviewed and we were pleased to 
welcome Demetra Pinsent who joined as 
a Non-executive Director in May . Demetra 
is a former partner of McKinsey & Co and 
was leader of its European Apparel, fashion 
and luxury goods practice for ﬁ ve years, 
advising leading high street, aspirational 
and luxury retailers and brands.
The Group’s ongoing strategy was a focus of 
debate and discussion for the Board during 
the year, and the business model focusing on 
central London retail and residential property 
was affi  rmed whilst keeping an open mind on 
opportunities to allow the business to develop 
further. People development and succession 
planning have also been a focus of the Board. 
I am grateful to the Non-executive Directors 
who are participating in a mentoring 
programme with senior members of the 
management team below Board level to 
develop, strengthen and create depth in 
management capability . 
MOVING FORWARD 
In 2012 London took its place on the world 
stage as host city of the Olympics and centre 
of the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations, 
and its success under the spotlight has 
enhanced its standing as a global city and an 
attractive location for investment. The global 
capital ﬂ ows into London have underpinned 
the central London real estate markets despite 
the continued poor macroeconomic outlook 
for the UK, but London’s ‘safe haven’ status 
should not be taken for granted. 
Nevertheless, as we move forward I am 
conﬁ dent that Capco’s strategy to unlock 
value from its core estates whilst maintaining 
a strong ﬁ nancial position will enable 
it to capitalise on opportunities for its 
shareholders and continue to achieve 
market leading returns.
 
Ian Durant
Chairman
28 February 2013
Commitment to Corporate 
Responsibility (CR)
Our entrepreneurial culture encourages a creative 
and holistic approach to place-making, which takes into 
consideration our impact on the environment and on the 
local communities where our estates are based. CR has 
become embedded into the fabric of our day-to-day work. 
For more about the speciﬁ c initiatives that illustrate our 
strategy, including the Apple Market Challenge (pictured 
right), please see our dedicated CR section on pages 42 
to 47. 
