 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 6 
DELIVERING 
VALUE WITH 
RESPONSIBILITY
Chairman’s statement
“This was another year of signiﬁ cant 
performance for Capco. Our focus on 
London and our strong ﬁ nancial position 
will enable us to build on the momentum 
and continue to deliver market-leading total 
returns for our shareholders from both 
our landmark estates.”
Ian Durant, Chairman
Total return
23%
Dividend
 1.5p
Total shareholder return
pence
Capco
FTSE 350 Real Estate Index
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 10 May 2010 Governance Financial statements Strategic report
www.capitalandcounties.com 7 
I am pleased to report that 2013 was a year of excellent 
performance for Capco. This is our fourth set of annual 
results following our establishment as an independent 
company , a period in which the business has grown in 
value and capability with a strong focus on its two 
estates in central London, Covent Garden and Earls 
Court Properties. In 2013, signiﬁ cant milestones were 
achieved across the business as Capco continued to 
execute its strategy to generate market-leading total 
returns for shareholders. 
At Covent Garden, ERV increased by 11 per cent to 
£58.0 million and we have welcomed a number of 
luxury brands to the estate, including Dior Beauty , 
Burberry Beauty Box and Miller Harris. In December 
2013, Westminster Council resolved to grant planning 
consent for a redevelopment of Kings Court and 
Carriage Hall which will cover over 90,000 square feet, 
our ﬁ rst major development at Covent Garden.
The Earls Court Masterplan has achieved outline 
planning consent and a detailed planning application 
in respect of Earls Court Village to progress the design 
of the scheme has been submitted. As the development 
is implemented, the local community will beneﬁ t 
through commitments made under the Section 106 
agreement. Discussions with Transport for London 
(“TfL”) regarding a proposed joint venture to enable 
the development of EC1 & EC2 in line with the Earls 
Court Masterplan are progressing well. At Lillie Square, 
our joint venture is preparing to launch the ﬁ rst phase 
of a residential scheme that will provide over 800 
new homes. 
Following recent investment to enhance the Olympia 
venue, the exhibitions business has been re-launched 
as Olympia London.
In December 2013 the Company became a constituent 
of the JSE 40 index in South Africa which comprises 
the largest companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange. Capco remains a member of the FTSE 250 
index in the UK.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
In 2013, Capco delivered strong performance with 
a total return of 23 per cent, of which the main 
component was the increase in EPRA adjusted, diluted 
NAV per share from 203 pence to 249 pence. The 
valuation of the Group’s property assets increased by 
19.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Total shareholder 
return was 37 per cent.
The Directors are proposing a ﬁ nal dividend of 
1.0 pence per share, bringing the total dividend 
paid and payable for 2013 to 1.5 pence per share. 
I would like to thank the Executive Directors and all 
Capco’s staff  for their hard work and commitment 
during 2013 which has generated the Group’s 
performance.
THE BOARD AND ITS ACTIVITIES
Capco’s Board operates openly and transparently , 
allowing dialogue and debate between the Executive 
and Non-executive Directors. The eff ective operation 
of the Board was endorsed by an external Board 
evaluation undertaken during the year, which is 
described on page 55. I would like to thank the 
Non-executive Directors for their continued 
commitment during 2013.
During the year, the Board considered the Group’s 
strategy and conﬁ rmed that the focus on central 
London retail and residential property , with the 
ﬂ exibility to consider non-core opportunities, 
remained appropriate.
2013 saw the application of a revised UK Corporate 
Governance code as well as new remuneration 
reporting regulations. Our Audit Committee Report 
on page 57 and Directors’ Remuneration report on 
page 62 reﬂ ect these new disclosure requirements.
More details on the Board’s activities may be read in 
the Corporate Governance Report on page 52.
COMMUNITY
Our corporate strategy is complemented by continued 
investment and participation in the communities 
where our estates are based. Many of our staff  
participated in our Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) 
programme during the year, contributing over 
515 hours to supporting projects. In 2013 the CR 
programme included fund raising events for The Sir 
Simon Milton Foundation and the Covent Garden 
charity Mousetrap Theatre Projects, engagement with 
schools in both Earls Court and Covent Garden and the 
sponsorship and organisation of a Community Fun Day 
at Earls Court. 
MOVING FORWARD
London continues to thrive as a global city and the 
value of this remains attractive to investors. As we 
begin 2014, macroeconomic conditions appear to be 
improving, but we must not be complacent and we will 
continue to focus on the delivery of Capco’s strategy .
I am conﬁ dent that this clear strategy , with its focus 
on London, and Capco’s strong ﬁ nancial position will 
enable the Company to capitalise on the momentum 
of 2013 and continue to deliver attractive returns for 
shareholders, whilst embarking on exciting place-
making initiatives at both of our landmark estates.
 
I.C. Durant
Chairman
25 February 2014
