 26  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s review
Adjusted 
operating profi t 
margin:
7.4%
(2014: 7.6%)
“ Cape achieved a robust performance 
in 2015 despite the substantial 
challenges in the oil and gas industry, 
demonstrating the progress we have 
made in implementing our strategy. 
The results are a testament to both 
the dedication of all the people at 
Cape and the progress we have 
made in making Cape into a 
strong and resilient business.” 
 Joe Oatley
 Chief Executive 27  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Overview
I am delighted to announce a robust set of results for 2015 
demonstrating the resilience of our business model in testing market 
conditions. We remain committed to our strategy of investing in both 
operational excellence in parallel with the pursuit of a number of 
avenues for growth. Whilst the challenging market conditions have 
clearly impacted our short-term growth, I am pleased to be able to 
report that we achieved a strong order intake with a closing order 
book of £861 million, up 18% on prior year (2014: £731 million).
We have made good progress on a number of our target growth 
areas. We entered both the Kuwaiti and Malaysian markets in the 
second half of 2015 with initial activity anticipated in both during 
2016. In May 2015 we announced the acquisition of Redhall 
Engineering Solutions Limited, which adds a range of mechanical 
and engineering maintenance services to the Group including 
specialist pipe repair, tank repair and shutdown services. We have 
established a dedicated team in the MENA region to develop our 
specialist services and the MENA business has secured its fi rst tank 
refurbishment maintenance contract from Gasco in the UAE, which 
is expected to run for a three-year period.
Our joint venture in Azerbaijan is now operating from a fi rm footing 
delivering both construction and maintenance work in the country 
and the Group reported its fi rst profi t from this joint venture in 2015. 
We strengthened our Australian business by both streamlining 
operations and securing a key contract with Woodside to provide 
multi-disciplinary services to the Karratha Gas Plant Life Extension 
project through a newly formed joint venture with UGL.
Although our business has proven to be resilient through 2015, we 
remain subject to the effects of reduced spending by our key clients 
across a number of sectors, in particular upstream oil and gas. 
As oil, gas and iron ore prices continue to remain low, we expect 
that 2016 will prove to be a challenging year for the business with 
pressure on both volumes and prices.
Market conditions 2015
The price of crude oil ranged between $47 and $68 per barrel for 
the fi rst half of the year before falling signifi cantly in the fi nal quarter 
of 2015 to a low of $36 per barrel in December. This continued low 
price of oil drove both a reduction in volume and signifi cant pressure 
on pricing in the upstream oil and gas sector. Demand from the 
downstream and industrial markets remained solid throughout the 
year with the refi ning and petrochemical sectors committing to 
investment in both maintenance and upgrading of facilities. Overall 
the Group saw increasing pricing pressure across all of its core 
geographies in the fi nal quarter of the year.
Overall demand in the UK, Europe & CIS region reduced in 2015, 
largely driven by the weakening upstream oil and gas sector in the 
UK. The UK offshore business saw both project and refurbishment 
work in the North Sea reduce signifi cantly as our clients sought to 
reduce both capital and operating expenditures. The UK onshore 
business also experienced a reduction in demand from the UK coal 
based power generation sector as Longannet, Ferrybridge and 
Eggborough power stations announced plans for closure in 2016. 
The refi ning and petrochemical sector was boosted by the reduced 
cost of feedstock and this fed through to robust demand for the 
Group’s services from this sector. Demand in Azerbaijan was strong, 
driven by new projects such as Shah Deniz 2 and Sangachal and 
steady maintenance activity.
The overall level of demand for our services remained solid in MENA, 
although there was signifi cant variation across the region. Construction 
activity remained robust in KSA and whilst we experienced delays to 
a number of projects within the country, such as the Jizan new 
refi nery, investment remains committed and key projects continue 
to move forward. Progress on the Sohar refi nery expansion and 
other new projects in Oman has been slower than expected and 
construction activity in both UAE and Qatar remained low. The 
construction market in Kuwait continued to grow with major projects 
such as the KNPC Clean Fuels project moving forward. Demand for 
maintenance activities remained solid for the region as a whole, 
although the business experienced an increased focus from its 
customers on cost and pricing across both construction and 
maintenance work in the second half of 2015.
Market conditions across Asia Pacifi c remained mixed. Demand 
from the LNG construction sector in Australia grew as activity on the 
Gorgon, Wheatstone and Ichthys projects all increased during the 
year, with this sector also driving construction demand in Asia where 
a number of the modules for these projects are being built. The 
mining sector in Australia continues to be extremely challenging as 
our clients seek to reduce their operational costs to offset the falling 
price of commodities, in particular iron ore. Outside of the LNG 
module construction work in the Asian yards, other construction 
activity in Asia remained relatively low throughout the year. 
2015 operating performance 
Despite challenging market conditions, Cape performed well in 2015.
Order intake grew by 13% to £841 million (2014: £744 million) with the 
UK business securing the key Federal Maintenance contract renewal 
with BP and a number of new contract wins across the Group 
including the Karratha Life Extension project with Woodside in 
Australia and a multidisciplinary maintenance contract with 
ExxonMobil at Fawley in the UK. As a result the Group concluded 
2015 with a healthy closing order book of £861 million, up 18% on 
prior year (2014: £731 million) with 56% of that order book due for 
delivery within 2016. The SOCAR-Cape joint venture in Azerbaijan 
also secured a number of key contracts, both for maintenance and 
construction work, not included in the order intake and order book 
values above, in accordance with our accounting policies. 
 
Revenue was 3% higher than the prior year at £711.4 million, 
(2014: £690.5 million), as the business benefi tted from a full year 
of the Motherwell Bridge business and the acquisition of Redhall 
Engineering Solutions Ltd in May 2015. At constant currency, 
excluding the contribution from acquisitions, underlying revenues 
decreased by 2% with growth in Australia partly mitigating reductions 
in demand from the UK, the UAE and Qatar. Adjusted operating profi t 
increased slightly to £52.5 million (2014: £52.3 million) as the benefi ts 
of improved performances in Azerbaijan and Australia offset the 
effects of increased pricing pressures in the UK and, latterly, in the 
MENA region. 
Adjusted net debt increased to £109.9 million (2014: £101.0 million) 
driven primarily by acquisition costs of £5.5 million and an increase 
in capital expenditure. 
 
Progress on strategy
The successful implementation of our strategy has delivered a 
resilient business, well positioned to cope with the current 
challenging market conditions. Although our markets have changed 
considerably over the last year, we are convinced that our strategy 
remains valid and will enable us to continue to deliver shareholder 
value over the long term. Our ambition remains to be the market 
leader for our chosen services in each of our key markets. Our 
strategy to achieve this is built upon fi ve key pillars: Operational 
excellence; Customer intimacy; Balanced business; Growth through 
broadening our range of services; and Growth through geographic 
expansion. We have made progress in all these areas during the last 
twelve months and as a result the Group is well placed to weather 
the current challenging market conditions and is also well positioned 
to capture opportunities as our markets recover.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 28  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s review
continued
Operational excellence
The goals of our Operational Excellence programme remain 
unchanged: to attract, retain and develop the best people; to simplify 
and standardise our business systems and processes; and to ensure 
that knowledge and best practice are shared around the Group. Our 
middle and senior management development programmes are now 
well established within the business and are enabling us to develop 
more of our management talent in-house. We have now extended 
our investment in training and development to a Group-wide 
programme for all front line supervisors to ensure that all of the 
people who are responsible for putting our employees to work and 
for overseeing the delivery of our services at the workface are trained 
to the same high standard. 
We are continuing to develop our systems to ensure that we have 
the best tools available to measure and manage our work, and drive 
better productivity. These systems are recognised by many of our 
clients as industry-leading and they have been instrumental in 
securing several of the new contracts that the Group has been 
awarded in the last year. Our improved communications tools and 
our more open, collaborative culture provide the basis for the sharing 
of best practice around the Group.
Operational excellence is the bedrock upon which the long-term 
success of the Group is founded and it continues to provide the 
basis for high quality delivery to our clients and sustainable returns 
to our shareholders.
Customer intimacy
We have built long-term relationships with several of our key customers 
including EDF, BP and SABIC over a number of years. Through these 
relationships we have developed a deep understanding of their 
businesses and we use this to develop solutions, both commercial 
and technical, that deliver real value to these clients. This process of 
developing a close relationship with our key clients is an important 
differentiator for our business and enables us to deliver signifi cant 
benefi t to our clients as we develop and extend our range of services 
with them.
Balanced business
Cape already has a balance of business across a range of 
geographies, which gives the Group an inherent stability against 
fl uctuations in demand from any one particular region and this will 
continue to develop as we expand into new countries and regions 
around the world. In addition, we have been actively growing our 
maintenance business to provide stability against the natural 
variability in demand from the construction project market. I am 
pleased to be able to report that the Group’s revenue from 
maintenance activity has remained stable in absolute terms at 
£474 million, only a slight reduction of 1% compared to £478 million 
in the prior year. The proportion of Cape’s business derived from 
maintenance activities in 2015 was 67% (2014: 69%). 
Growth through broadening our range of services
In May we added a new service line to our UK business through the 
acquisition of Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, which has since 
been renamed Cape Engineering Services Limited (CESL). CESL is a 
highly regarded provider of mechanical and engineering maintenance 
services in the UK including specialist welding, pipe repairs and 
shutdown management. The addition of these services to our UK 
business has signifi cantly expanded our addressable market and we 
have already achieved revenue synergies by taking these new 
services to our existing client base. 
Cape Specialist Services (CSS) is the grouping of our businesses 
that have more specialist technical content and we have continued 
to invest in these businesses during 2015. CSS is progressing well 
with new project work including the construction of a large liquefi ed 
ethane storage tank for a key client in the UK, a project that is utilising 
the combined strength of the Motherwell Bridge tank construction 
expertise and the traditional Cape services of insulation, access and 
coatings. We secured our fi rst storage tank maintenance contract in 
the UAE in the second half of the year and are now in the process of 
delivering this contract. We will continue to invest in order to build 
our specialist services capability across the Cape footprint around 
the world.
Growth through geographic expansion
We aim to have the leading market share for our services in each 
of our key geographies. In practice we seek to grow market share 
wherever possible and to defend our leading positions in our more 
mature businesses. We have been successful in growing our share 
of the market in Australia with contract wins such as the Karratha Life 
Extension project in Australia and have maintained our leading 
position in the UK with key wins such as the Fawley refi nery contract 
for ExxonMobil. Our KSA business continues to grow both in 
maintenance and project activities and our SOCAR-Cape joint 
venture has cemented its leading position in Azerbaijan by securing 
both key project work and an extension of its core maintenance 
contract with BP.
We have also established operations in Malaysia and Kuwait, two 
countries we have been targeting for future growth based upon the 
expected increase in construction project work in these territories 
over the medium term. I expect that we will be actively delivering our 
services in both these countries during the next twelve months.
Organisation and people
As a service provider with over 16,000 employees across Cape’s 
global footprint, our people are central to the current and future 
success of the business. We continue to invest in developing our 
people and ensuring that everyone can achieve their potential at Cape. 
We now have well established management and leadership 
development programmes both for our current and future senior 
leaders and we continued to invest in these programmes during 2015. 
Our biggest new people development effort for 2015 went into a 
Group-wide comprehensive training programme for all 1,600 of our 
site supervisors. Every day our supervisors are the individuals who are 
responsible for ensuring that our work is carried out in a safe, high 
quality manner, to meet our customers’ requirements. As such they 
are a critical contact point for our customers, the face of our business 
and at the front line in making sure that we keep our people safe. We 
now have a programme that ensures all of our supervisors are trained 
to the same standards wherever they are working in the world. 
Safety
The safety of our people and of those people around us is central 
to everything we do at Cape. We continue to seek out new ways to 
drive a better safety culture and resultant safety performance. One 
such initiative during 2015 was a programme called The ‘Line of Fire’ 
which we rolled out across every member of the Group. The ‘Line of 
Fire’ was a video campaign using employees’ family members as a 
trigger to remind people to stop and assess the safety requirements 
of their day-to-day work situations. It has been a very powerful 
reminder for every one of us about the importance of remaining 
focussed on safety in everything we do.
In December 2015, a severe storm hit the Caspian Sea resulting in 
major structural damage to a number of offshore assets and a fi re on 
Shallow Water Gunashli, platform 10. Two of the personnel from our 
Azerbaijan joint venture are still missing, presumed dead, along with 
20 workers employed by other contractors. Our thoughts are with all 
involved in this tragic situation. 
Our Lost Time Injury Frequency record (LTIF) has improved 
signifi cantly in 2015 almost halving the LTIF rate to 0.184 incidents 
per 1,000,000 hours worked, from 0.323 in 2014. The business is 
also now focussing on forward-looking measures of safety 
performance such as the number of safety orientated senior 
leadership site tours carried out per month, the delivery of safety 
inspection programmes and the timely close out of safety 
observations and incidents. Our energy and focus on safety will be 
continued in 2016 as we seek to build on the improvements made 
over the last few years. Cape continues to strive to achieve a safe 
work environment with zero harm to our employees, partners and 
third parties.  29  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Outlook
The robust performance in 2015 is a refl ection of the resilience of 
our business. Nonetheless, the Group is not immune to the effects of 
deteriorating market conditions. Approximately 22% of the Group’s 
revenue is related to the upstream oil and gas sector and it is 
anticipated that this sector will be particularly challenging in 2016, 
with oil prices currently remaining near to the lows experienced 
during the fi nal quarter of 2015. The midstream/downstream oil and 
gas market, which represents approximately 33% of Group’s revenue, 
is less directly affected by the fall in oil price, with maintenance 
demand from this sector remaining solid. Nonetheless, we are now 
seeing a signifi cantly increased focus on cost across all geographies 
from our customers in the midstream/downstream oil and gas sector 
and therefore expect that this will translate into downward pressure 
on pricing and margins across the Group. With the announcement 
of forthcoming closures of three UK coal-fi red power stations, the 
Group expects the demand for its services from this sector to decline 
in 2016, with the demand from the nuclear power generation sector 
remaining robust.
The Board currently anticipates that the 2016 result will be similar to 
2015 in terms of volume of activity, with some contraction in margins 
as our continued drive for operational performance partly mitigates 
the effects of increased pricing pressure in our core markets. We 
remain committed to making the investments required to deliver our 
strategy, both for growth and for continuous improvement in our 
operational performance.
Whilst the current market conditions are clearly challenging, our 
business has demonstrated its resilience to short-term volatility and 
the long-term drivers of demand for our services remain robust. 
Although the timing of new construction activity is inherently 
uncertain, the key projects that the Group is targeting across both 
MENA and Asia Pacifi c continue to move ahead with committed 
investment from the end-user. Maintenance demand is intrinsically 
more stable and the progress we have made over the last three years 
in increasing our exposure to the maintenance sector has been a key 
element of the Group’s resilience. I remain confi dent that our strategy 
will deliver increased shareholder value over the medium to long term 
through our focus on operational performance and growth in both 
our service offering and geographic reach.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
15 March 2016
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Case study
Line of Fire, HSEQ initiative
Region
All regions
As part of our HSEQ aspiration of ‘zero harm’ to people and 
the environment, we have devised a series of short fi lms that 
encourage our employees to make an emotional connection with 
and consider the consequences of making an unsafe decision. 
We call this a ‘Trigger Moment’.
The fi lms were made capturing Cape employees performing their 
everyday jobs in a variety of environments, from sites to offi ces. 
When the footage shows an individual about to do something that 
is unsafe which may put themselves or others in the ‘line of fi re’, 
we introduce their family members, creating their ‘trigger moment’. 
The family member then acts as a reminder that what they are 
doing is not right, and if they continue, what they could lose. 
We launched these fi lms as part of a Group-wide ‘Line of Fire’ 
week along with other material to promote longevity of the 
campaign. The fi lms have also been delivered in 13 different 
languages to help ensure worldwide usage. 
The materials have been made freely available both within Cape 
and also externally, including to other contractors and our clients 
as Cape’s contribution to improving the safety programme of our 
entire industry. 
The campaign forms part of our constant drive to achieve a safe 
and healthy workplace for all of our employees around the world. 
 
