 understanding our business
8 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Delivering strong performance
a year Of prOgress
The Board is committed to delivering 
market-leading total returns to shareholders. 
We aim to achieve this by combining value 
creation through capital value and income 
growth and adopting an innovative and 
entrepreneurial approach to managing 
the Group’s assets. The portfolio of high 
potential, central London estates and a 
prudent balance sheet provide the platform  
to deliver this commitment. 
covent garden
In 2011 we enhanced Covent Garden through 
a series of tenancy changes and acquisitions 
in the latest phase of its repositioning, which 
resulted in a strong increase in the valuation 
of the estate. This expansion was supported 
by the successful equity issue in May last year 
which raised £100 million, together with 
a £300 million refinancing in November.
earls court and Olympia
The exhibition business performed in line 
with expectations in 2011. The development 
of Olympia’s West Hall, already open for 
business, has increased the venue’s ability 
to host simultaneous shows.
Total return
12.7%
Total property values
£1.6 billion
NAV per share
166 pence
Ian Durant, Chairman
Capco is well positioned to maintain its momentum 
following a year of progress and value creation in 2011. 
Strong total returns were generated by energetic and 
profitable activity in line with the strategy articulated at 
the time of establishing Capco as an independent company 
in 2010. Carefully targeted acquisitions and the drive 
towards creative regeneration have established a solid 
platform from which to continue to create value from 
Capco’ s assets.  
Total property return
14.8% our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements understanding our business
9 www.capitalandcounties.com 9 
The proposals for Earls Court reached several 
milestones, in particular the launch of Sir 
Terry Farrell’s Masterplan and the submission 
of planning applications for Seagrave Road 
and the wider scheme. These illustrate 
Capco’s vision for Earls Court which has been 
formally identified in the Mayor’s London 
Plan as an Opportunity Area with the capacity 
for large-scale development. 
In February 2012 a resolution to grant 
planning consent for Seagrave Road was 
received, which followed the agreement 
of a conditional joint venture in relation to 
the site with the Kwok Family Interests in 
December. These successes will allow the 
Group to pursue, in partnership, the 
development of more than 800 homes 
at Seagrave Road. 
the great capital partnership  
and china
The Great Capital Partnership and the 
Group’s investments in China have continued 
to perform well, allowing us to take the 
opportunity to realise capital to be recycled 
into the Group’s core activities.
results and dividends 
Capco delivered another year of strong 
performance in 2011, with a total return of 
12.7 per cent underpinned by a rise in EPRA 
adjusted, diluted NAV per share from 
148 pence to 166 pence. This was largely 
driven by the positive revaluation of the 
investment properties, which increased 
9.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis, 
outperforming IPD capital values which rose 
1.2 per cent. The share price increased 23 per 
cent in 2011 which compares favourably to the 
11 per cent fall in the FTSE Real Estate Index. 
The Directors are proposing a final dividend 
of 1.0 pence per share, bringing the total 
dividend paid and payable for 2011 to 
1.5 pence per share. 
future OppOrtunities
Following considerable progress in 2011,  
the Covent Garden team continues to 
implement asset management opportunities 
whilst considering ways in which to expand 
the estate’s footprint that will enhance 
long-term value. 
Our immediate priorities for the Earls Court 
Masterplan are to secure planning consents 
across the wider area and to conclude the 
commercial transactions with the London 
Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham (LBHF) 
and Transport for London (TfL). We look 
forward to working closely with the Kwok 
Family Interests to take forward the Seagrave 
Road project.
For more detail on our activities and future 
plans for our estates, please see pages 18 to 37 
in this report. 
cOmmitment tO cOrpOrate 
respOnsibility (cr)
Capco employs people with a diverse range of 
experience and expertise. Our entrepreneurial 
culture encourages a creative and holistic 
approach to place-making, which takes into 
consideration our impact on the environment 
and on the local communities where our 
estates are based. CR has become embedded 
into the fabric of our day-to-day work. For 
more about the specific initiatives that 
illustrate our strategy , please see our 
dedicated CR section on pages 44 to 49. 
gOvernance
The Board has taken particular care to 
establish an open culture in which debate and 
management accountability are emphasised. 
We encourage our people to be passionate 
about the estates in their stewardship but to 
maintain a high degree of objectivity about 
the use of, and the risk-adjusted returns 
available from, the Group’s capital. A strong 
corporate governance structure underpins 
this culture.
A full description of the activities of the Board 
and its Committees during the year is 
contained in the Corporate Governance report 
from pages 52 to 58. During the year the Board 
has increasingly focused on considering the 
Group’s options for evolving its strategy 
beyond the goals set out at the time of 
establishing Capco as an independent entity in 
2010; and reviewing planning and commercial 
decisions and critical timelines – all within the 
context of effective risk management. 
Following an external board effectiveness 
evaluation in 2010, an internal review was 
undertaken this year. The Board recognises 
the benefits that increased gender diversity 
would bring and accordingly a search for 
an additional Non-executive Director is 
underway and a description of the ongoing 
recruitment process is set out on page 58.
I am pleased to report that in December, 
Capco shares were classified as ‘domestic’ for 
trading purposes on the Johannesburg Stock 
Exchange, where the Company has a 
secondary listing. This means that investors 
in South Africa are now able to trade shares 
in Capco on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange 
without the previous restrictions on foreign 
holdings under South African exchange 
control limits.
Regarding shareholder engagement, I remain 
committed to meeting our shareholders and 
the Executive team has a comprehensive 
programme of investor briefings. 
OutlOOk
Capco’s success in 2011 is the result of our 
strategy of focusing on specific central 
London prime assets where the Group has 
a dominant position. This has allowed the 
Group to benefit from the distinct, strategic 
capital and economic characteristics of 
a specialist central London non-REIT 
property company . 
I am in no doubt that London will benefit 
enormously from the Queen’s Diamond 
Jubilee celebrations and as the host city for 
the Olympics this year, and am proud that 
Earls Court will be an integral part of the 
Olympics experience having been chosen 
as an official venue. 
I believe the future for Capco is positive, and 
look ahead to 2012 with optimism tempered 
by caution regarding the macroeconomic 
climate. We look forward to making further 
progress on realising London’s most 
significant urban place-making initiatives for 
many years at Earls Court and Seagrave Road. 
We are also confident of seeing further value 
creation at Covent Garden. 
Finally , I would like to thank the Executive 
Directors and all staff for their hard work 
and commitment during the past year. I am 
confident that they are committed to meeting 
the challenges of the year ahead.
Ian Durant
Chairman
29 February 2012
