 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 8 
Chief Executive’s review
2014 was another year of signiﬁcant progress for Capco. The 
business performed strongly delivering a total return of 25 per cent, 
underpinned by a clear and focused strategy to drive value creation 
at Covent Garden and Earls Court. 
The successful equity raise in May provided the business with 
additional ﬂexibility to accelerate value across the business which  
is demonstrated in these results today . Our overall aim is to provide 
long-term market-leading returns for our shareholders, through 
our distinct approach to creating places. 
Our balance sheet remains robust, with a conservative loan-to-value 
ratio of 12 per cent. Following a restructuring of our bank facilities 
and a successful US Private Placement, our cost of debt has reduced 
to 3.4 per cent and we have moved to a predominantly unsecured 
debt model at Covent Garden. 
Over the last ﬁve years Capco’s business has grown from a total 
property value of £1.2 billion to over £3.0 billion. To ensure we have 
the capacity and capabilities to drive continued performance from 
our growing estates, Gary Yardley and Soumen Das’ responsibilities 
will expand to include Managing Director roles with responsibility 
for oversight and investment performance at Earls Court Properties 
& Olympia and Covent Garden respectively . Their appointments 
highlight the depth of knowledge and expertise that they both 
bring to the Group and their new responsibilities will support me 
in delivering the strategy we have in place for Capco. 
London – a global and growing city
London is a global and growing city . Its economic prospects are 
strong and according to the London Plan, published by the Greater 
London Authority (“GLA”), the Capital’s population is expected to 
grow by two million by 2031. For London to continue to thrive and 
provide, it needs more places for people to live, work and enjoy . 
Covent Garden and Earls Court are two of the Capital’s greatest 
addresses and are well placed to succeed against this backdrop of 
growth. Our approach to creative asset management at Covent 
Garden will continue to ensure its success as a vibrant destination 
for retailers, visitors and residents while the Earls Court Masterplan 
is a unique opportunity to provide thousands of new homes, 
creating the new great estate of London.
Valuations
The Group has beneﬁted from strong valuations following positive 
performance across the business. The property portfolio is valued at 
£3.0 billion as at 31 December 2014, having grown by 21.9 per cent 
on a like-for-like basis over the year. 
Covent Garden – a leading global destination 
Covent Garden has reinforced its position as a leading global 
destination. Our creative approach to managing and investing in 
our estate continues to attract premium brands and the district’s 
vibrancy continues to attract quality footfall.
The estate experienced its strongest year of performance since 
Capco’s listing in 2010 as our consistent and successful 
DELIVERING VALUE THROUGH  
PERFORMANCE
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive Governance Financial statements Strategic report
www.capitalandcounties.com 9 
repositioning strategy is now embedded across the estate. The 
estate is valued at £1.6 billion as at 31 December 2014, delivering  
a like-for-like increase of 24.5 per cent over the year. We achieved 
record new lettings, with ERV up 13.7 per cent on a like-for-like 
basis to £75.1 million. The initial yield is 2.5 per cent and the 
equivalent yield is 3.7 per cent.
Following a very strong year of lettings progress and a positive 
outlook for rental growth, we are conﬁdent that we will be able to 
grow the value and prominence of our estate. Our ability to drive 
superior rental growth through our distinct approach to managing 
Covent Garden gives us conﬁdence to increase the ERV guidance  
to £100 million by 2017 . This represents a continued underlying 
growth rate of circa 10 per cent, in line with the last ﬁve years and 
would imply an ERV of £125 million by December 2019.
Covent Garden is now an important destination for contemporary 
luxury and dining brands looking for a premium location in 
London. This demand for well-managed prime space has seen a new 
Zone A rental level of £1,000 achieved on James Street, a new record 
level for the estate. In addition, our creative asset management 
strategy , where every street has a plan, has seen the introduction of 
brands including Bobbi Brown, Clinique and Nigel Cabourn as well 
as The Ivy Market Grill.
It has been a year of signiﬁcant investment activity on the estate  
as we have expanded our footprint in this prime area with 
acquisitions totalling £167 million. We have a solid pipeline of 
opportunities ahead of us. We are on site and works are underway 
for the redevelopment of Kings Court. The scheme will improve the 
ﬂow of footfall on the estate and unlocks the opportunity to extend 
our place-making approach to Floral Street.  
Earls Court – a central London ‘Opportunity Area’ 
The valuation of Capco’s interests at Earls Court, represented by 
Earls Court Properties, has grown positively in the year to £1.2 
billion. This represents an increase of 17 .9 per cent over the year on  
a like-for-like basis beneﬁting from Capco’s value creation strategy 
though planning, land assembly and land enablement, as well as 
positive market conditions in London. 
Market Value 
2014 
£m
Market Value 
2013
£m
Market 
Value 
Change
1,2
Covent Garden 1,636 1,156 24.5%
Earls Court Properties
EC1 & EC2 609 453 27.9% 
Lillie Square 182
3
153
3
9.9%
Empress State 278 265
3
4.9%
Other 105 63 17.9%
Venues 211 161 27.6%
Other 4 –
Total property
4
3,025 2,251 21.9%
1 Like-for-like.
2  Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital 
expenditure and fixed head leases. 
3 Represents Capco’s 50 per cent share on a proportionate basis.
4 A reconciliation of carrying value of investment, development and trading property to 
the market vale is shown in note 16 ‘Property Portfolio’ .
The Earls Court Masterplan continues to advance. Our investment 
vehicle with TfL over EC1 & EC2 was successfully established and 
works started in December for the demolition of these buildings, 
further de-risking the land in this part of the scheme. Earls Court 
Village, which relates to two-thirds of the EC1 & EC2 area, received 
detailed planning consent and the Empress State Building received 
detailed consent for residential conversion.
Lillie Square, the ﬁrst opportunity to bring new residential product 
to the Earls Court Masterplan area, was successfully launched last 
spring and established a positive pricing benchmark for the area,  
as its central location, connectivity and premium speciﬁcation 
generated high demand. The ﬁrst phase is now substantially sold.
The Earls Court Masterplan is a unique opportunity to create a new 
estate in central London. The masterplan is in one of the GLA ’s 
opportunity areas, making it a strategic scheme for London and 
received formal outline planning consent in 2013. Against a backdrop 
of London’s rapidly growing population and its housing needs, 
options are now being considered to intensify the masterplan to 
optimise the development potential of this strategic project. 
Venues – strong operational performance
Olympia London has been reinvigorated following Capco’s £30 
million investment in recent years. Over 80 per cent of Earls Court’s 
2014 shows have moved to Olympia London in 2015, following  
Earls Court’s closure in December 2014. Olympia London continues 
to attract new events highlighting the renewed appeal of this 
historic venue. 
The Venues business performed ahead of expectations in 2014 with 
EBITDA for the year of £11.1 million. Its valuation was up 27 .6 per 
cent to £211 million on a like-for-like basis, reﬂecting the successful 
transition and its bright prospects. 
Outlook
Capco remains well positioned to deliver further signiﬁcant value 
for its shareholders from its strategy to drive value creation at 
Covent Garden and Earls Court.
At Covent Garden, the focus continues to be on attracting new 
premium retail and restaurant brands, to drive rental growth, while 
investing selectively in acquisitions and developments which 
enhance the estate and meet our return objectives.
At Earls Court, the focus is on continued enablement of the  
EC1 & EC2 land through demolition, planning applications which 
enhance the vision for the scheme, as well as sales of Phase 2 at  
Lillie Square.
The balance sheet is strong and ﬂexible, strengthened over the year 
with our new bank facilities, a US Private Placement and the 
successful equity raise in May . We remain alert to the uncertainty 
which may arise from the upcoming General Election. However, 
Capco’s strategy is clear and focused and with two unique assets in 
prime central London, we are well positioned to deliver long-term 
value for our shareholders. We enter a new year with conﬁdence. 
Ian Hawksworth
Chief Executive
26 February 2015
