 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8 
Chief Executive’s review
OVERVIEW 
A year of performance and progress 
2015 was another year of performance and progress across Capco. 
Underpinned by a clear and focused strategy to drive value from 
our estates, the business has delivered a total return of 17 per cent.
With its focus on London, Capco’s two prime assets are well-placed 
for long-term success. London is a global and growing city with 
positive economic prospects and continues to attract businesses and 
people who wish to live, work and enjoy this great city . The 
population continues to increase and the Greater London Authority 
(“GLA”) estimates that the Capital’s population will grow by two 
million by 2031.
At Covent Garden, our distinct approach to placemaking and 
creative asset management will continue to ensure its success  
as a vibrant destination for retailers, visitors and residents. Our 
consented strategic land holding at Earls Court forms the only 
central London development opportunity of scale within existing 
strong transport infrastructure. As a designated GLA Opportunity 
Area, the Earls Court Masterplan is a strategic scheme for the 
Capital and a unique opportunity to create the next great estate  
of London, providing thousands of much-needed new homes  
and opportunities.
Capco continues to investigate new areas for investment 
opportunities where our core skills of placemaking and 
masterplanning can be utilised effectively . In 2015, we acquired  
a 50 per cent interest in the Solum Developments joint venture  
with Network Rail, which will allow us to explore potential 
opportunities for future redevelopments at signiﬁcant railway 
station sites across London.
The balance sheet is robust and disciplined with a conservative 
loan-to-value of 16 per cent and strong liquidity with £452 million 
of cash and available facilities, strengthened by the recent 
reﬁnancing at Covent Garden.
Valuations
The Group has beneﬁted from solid valuation performance 
following positive momentum across the business. The property 
portfolio is valued at £3.7 billion as at 31 December 2015, having 
grown by 14 per cent on a like-for-like basis over the year.
The Group has a 63 per cent controlling interest in Earls Court 
Partnership Limited (“ECPL”), the investment vehicle with 
Transport for London (“TfL”) which owns the land formerly 
occupied by the Earls Court Exhibition Centres. As a result, it is 
fully consolidated in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and 
TfL’s interest is represented as a non-controlling interest. See page 
41 of the Financial Review for further information.
DRIVING VALUE CREATION  
FOR SHAREHOLDERS
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive Governance Financial statements Strategic report
www.capitalandcounties.com 9 
Market Value 
2015
£m
Market Value 
2014 
£m
Valuation
Change
Like-for-Like
1
Covent Garden 2,005 1,636 15.9%
Earls Court Properties
Earls Court Partnership Limited 
(“ECPL”) 803
2
657
2
14.3% 
Lillie Square 222
3
182
3
4.0%
Empress State 286 278 1.5%
Other 46 35 2.8%
Group share of Earls Court 
Properties 1,357 1,152 9.2%
Venues 295 233 24.7%
Other 5 4
Group share of total property 3,662 3,025
Non-controlling interest in  
Earls Court Properties 471 –
Total property
4
4,133 3,025 13.9%
1  Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital 
expenditure, fixed head leases and unrecognised trading surplus. 
2  Market value at 31 December 2015 represents the Group’s 63 per cent interest in ECPL. 
Market value at 31 December 2014 represents the Group’s interest in the properties 
that were transferred into ECPL on 2 April 2015. 
3  Represents the Group’s 50 per cent share on a proportionate basis. 
4  A reconciliation of carrying value of investment, development and trading property  
to the market value is shown in note 16 ‘Property Portfolio’ within the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Covent Garden – a leading global destination  
for brands and visitors 
Covent Garden is continuing its success as a leading global 
destination. Underpinned by our vision to position the estate at the 
forefront of global destinations for brands and visitors, 2015 was a 
strong year of performance and we are delighted to have signed our 
100
th
 brand to the estate.
Our asset management strategy , where every street has a plan, 
continues to attract global and premium brands while our creative 
approach to placemaking has continued to drive high quality footfall.
The estate is valued at £2.0 billion as at 31 December 2015,  
a like-for-like increase of 16 per cent. 2015 has been our most  
active year of leasing with 74 new lettings and renewals agreed  
at 11 per cent above December 2014 ERV . The ERV of the estate is 
£86 million, up 12 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Against this 
positive performance, we remain on course to deliver our ERV 
target of £100 million by December 2017 .
James Street established a new benchmark rental level reﬂecting the 
competition and the depth of demand for space on the street. A new 
Zone A rental level of £1,400 per square foot was achieved following 
lettings to Charlotte Tilbury and kikki.K who have both opened 
their ﬁrst London stores. Since the year-end, a new letting to 
cosmetics store, 3INA Cosmetics has set a new Zone A rental level of 
£1,475 per square foot.
The dining offer at Covent Garden has further strengthened and we 
are delighted to welcome SushiSamba, the iconic global restaurant, 
who will be moving into the Opera Terrace of the Market Building, 
one of the most prominent dining locations in London.
Covent Garden East Piazza Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 10 
The redevelopment of Kings Court is on track for completion in 
2017 and will transform pedestrian ﬂows on the north side of the 
estate. There has been positive interest from brands for this new 
development in line with the strategy to create an innovative retail 
and dining experience at Kings Court. 
We have continued to expand our presence on the estate through 
strategic acquisitions, investing £50 million on properties located 
at key access points to the estate. This takes the total invested in the 
estate since demerger in 2010 to over £500 million establishing one 
of the largest managed retail estates in London.
Earls Court – over 70 acres of consented strategic land in 
Chelsea and Fulham 
It has been a year of progress and momentum for our land interests 
at Earls Court. 
The valuation of Capco’s interests at Earls Court, represented by 
Earls Court Properties, has grown in the year to £1.4 billion. This 
represents an increase of 9 per cent over the year on a like-for-like 
basis beneﬁting from Capco’s strategy of driving value through 
planning, land assembly and land enablement as well as  
selective development. 
Our investment vehicle with TfL, ECPL, which is led by Capco, 
completed in April 2015 resulting in new 999 year leases over the 
former Exhibition Centres’ land. The signiﬁcant and complex 
demolition of the former Exhibition Centres, (“EC1 & EC2”), is 
successfully underway , as we continue to de-risk our land holdings 
in this part of the scheme. Demolition to ground level of the EC2 
building is now complete and demolition to ground level for the 
entire site is on track for completion this year. 
Artist’s impression of West Brompton Square
Detailed planning consent for West Brompton Village, a 1.2 acre site 
adjacent to the former Exhibition Centres, was granted by the Royal 
Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, bringing the total area for 
which detailed consent has been achieved to over 17 acres. 
Following the successful launch of Phase 1 of Lillie Square in 2014, 
construction is underway with ﬁrst completions on track for the 
second half of 2016. The ﬁrst phase is predominantly sold, 
crystallising over £250 million of sales and the average price per 
square foot for Phase 1 is approximately £1,500. 
The ﬁrst release of Phase 2 of Lillie Square which comprises  
70 units, was launched in September 2015; 40 per cent of this ﬁrst 
release has been reserved or exchanged. The residential sales 
market in London experienced challenging conditions towards the 
end of 2015 as a result of increasing supply , particularly in emerging 
locations, and regulatory intervention which has impacted 
demand. Whilst we remain conﬁdent in Lillie Square, the rate of 
sales has reduced compared to 2014, which reﬂects these challenges 
in the residential market. Nevertheless, sales prices achieved for 
Phase 2 are 5 per cent higher than comparable units in Phase 1, 
which reﬂects the strong location and transport connectivity  
of the scheme.
Chief Executive’s review continued Governance Financial statements Strategic report
www.capitalandcounties.com 11 
Ian Hawksworth
Chief Executive
24 February 2016
Pure London fashion event at Olympia London
The Earls Court Masterplan is a unique opportunity to create the 
next great estate of London. The Masterplan is in one of the GLA’s 
designated Opportunity Areas, making it a strategic scheme for 
London. Against a backdrop of London’s rapidly growing 
population and its housing needs, options are being considered to 
intensify the Masterplan to optimise the development potential of 
this strategic project.
Venues – operational excellence
The Venues business performed very well in 2015 with EBITDA for 
the year of £15 million, up 33 per cent. Its valuation was up 25 per 
cent to £295 million on a like-for-like basis, reﬂecting its bright 
future prospects. 
Following the success of the transition of shows from the Earls 
Court Exhibition Centres, 2015 was Olympia London’s busiest year 
with over 200 events held and over 1.5 million visitors. It is now the 
venue of choice for premium shows in central London and 
continues to attract new events. 
As announced in November 2015, Capco is conducting a  
strategic review of its Venues business. A number of proposals  
are being explored as part of this review, including a sale or 
continued ownership.
OUTLOOK
Since our demerger in 2010, we have positioned Capco with two 
signiﬁcant prime estates in central London.
Covent Garden now comprises over one million square feet of 
retail-led space in the West End. In line with our ambitious vision 
to establish the estate as the leading world-class destination for 
retailers and visitors, we will continue to reposition the estate 
whilst maintaining our creative approach. We remain on track to 
achieve our ERV target of £100 million by December 2017 . We will 
invest selectively in acquisitions and developments which enhance 
the estate and meet our return expectations.
Earls Court comprises over 70 acres of consented strategic land in 
Chelsea and Fulham. As a GLA Opportunity Area, the Earls Court 
Masterplan is a key strategic site and the only consented scheme 
capable of scale in central London. Our focus will be on continued 
de-risking of our land holdings, through the complex demolition 
of the former Exhibition Centres, as well as exploring options to 
evolve and intensify the Masterplan in order to optimise the 
potential of this strategic scheme.
London’s status as a world class city continues. Its economic 
prospects are positive and the population is growing signiﬁcantly . 
With its focus on London, Capco’s two prime assets are well-placed 
for long-term success.
We expect increasing global and political uncertainty , while the 
challenging conditions seen in the residential market at the end  
of the year are expected to continue in 2016. Our strategy at Capco 
remains clear and focused and we are conﬁdent in the outlook for 
our prime estates which are backed by a robust capital structure. We 
enter a new year with conﬁdence to drive long-term value creation 
for our shareholders from our two exceptional London estates.
