 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 6 
DELIVERING VALUE THROUGH 
A RESPONSIBLE CULTURE
Chairman’s statement
Ian Durant, Chairman
Total return
17%
Dividend
1.5p
Total shareholder return
pence
10 May
2010
31 Dec
2010
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec
2012
31 Dec
2013
31 Dec
2015
31 Dec
2014
0
100
200
300
400
500
Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index
OVERVIEW
I am pleased to report that Capco had another successful year in 
2015, executing its strategy for its assets and generating strong 
returns for shareholders. Covent Garden and Earls Court have 
experienced a very active year and milestones have been reached  
at both of these unique London estates. 
PERFORMANCE
In 2015, Capco delivered positive performance with a total return  
of 17 per cent which represents the growth in net assets plus the 
dividends paid during the year. The valuation of the Group’s 
property assets increased by 14 per cent on a like-for-like basis  
and total shareholder return, which reﬂects the share price change 
and dividends paid, was 20 per cent. 
The strategy at Covent Garden to create an internationally 
renowned destination for retailers and visitors continues to drive 
performance. Following a positive year for leasing on the estate, new 
Zone A rental levels were achieved and we have continued to invest 
in the estate through strategic acquisitions and developments. 
Management remains conﬁdent that the ERV target of £100 million 
by December 2017 is on track. 
At Earls Court, our plans continue to advance. The team is 
demonstrating the capability to undertake complex and ambitious 
projects and to manage them successfully . The demolition of the 
former Earls Court Exhibition Centres is well-advanced and 
construction of Lillie Square is underway , with ﬁrst completions 
expected later this year.  Governance Financial statements Strategic report
www.capitalandcounties.com 7 
The strategy to transfer the Venues business from Earls Court  
to Olympia London has been undertaken successfully and 
performance of the Venues business has exceeded expectations  
in this year of transition.
I would like to thank all of Capco’s employees for their hard work 
during the year. It is their commitment and expertise that allows 
Capco to continue to deliver our strategy and generate market-
leading returns for our shareholders.
FINANCIAL POSITION AND DIVIDENDS
Prudent ﬁnancing remains an important part of Capco’s strategy . 
The Board ensures that the Company maintains a strong balance 
sheet which will enable it to operate throughout the property cycle. 
The balance sheet is strong and ﬂexible with a conservative LTV of 
16 per cent. Following a Covent Garden reﬁnancing of £705 million, 
which has further strengthened the balance sheet, the Company is 
well-positioned to support its future activities with conﬁdence.
The Company continues to seek shareholder returns delivered 
through capital growth and a modest annual dividend. This is 
appropriate during a phase of capital investment and land value 
enhancement. Accordingly , the Directors are proposing a ﬁnal 
dividend of 1.0 pence per share, which brings the total dividend  
for 2015 to 1.5 pence per share.
THE BOARD AND ITS PRIORITIES
There were a number of changes to the Board during the year, with 
Gerry Murphy joining as an independent Non-executive Director 
and Andrew Huntley’s retirement.
Ian Henderson is to retire from the Capco Board and as Deputy 
Chairman and Senior Independent Director at the Company’s 
forthcoming AGM on 6 May 2016, and will step down as Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 25 April 2016.  
The Board is pleased that Ian will remain available to the Company 
on a consultancy basis following his retirement from the Board, 
allowing the Company to continue to beneﬁt from his  
extensive experience.
Gerry Murphy will be appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee with effect from 25 April 2016, and Demetra Pinsent 
will join the Remuneration Committee on the same date. The role 
of Senior Independent Director will be taken up by Henry Staunton 
on Ian Henderson’s retirement. 
Anthony Steains has been appointed as a Non-executive Director  
of the Company with effect from 1 March 2016. On appointment, 
Anthony will become a member of the Nomination Committee.  
The Board is keen to ensure that a balance of skills and experience 
aligned to Capco’s strategic goals is maintained, and in 2016, will 
continue to consider whether any additional Non-executive 
Directors should be appointed. 
You can read more about Anthony Steains’ experience and our work on succession 
planning in the Nomination Committee report on page 65.  
Following the promotions of Gary Yardley and Soumen Das to the 
roles of Managing Director with responsibility for the oversight of 
and investment performance at Earls Court and Covent Garden 
respectively , the business has continued to evolve its operational 
structure. Operational functions have been further re-organised  
to embed and strengthen our focus on long-term returns from  
our assets. Both Managing Directors continue to report to  
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive. The Board continues its 
commitment to encouraging diversity and the development  
of our people to ensure that Capco is resourced appropriately  
for the future. 
A RESPONSIBLE CULTURE
Capco seeks to generate market-leading returns with 
entrepreneurial ﬂair, whilst operating responsibly , professionally 
and with accountability . The Board encourages this culture 
throughout the business.
You can read more about Capco’s culture in our Corporate Responsibility report on page 49.  
Targeting ambitious returns requires us to ensure that risk is 
carefully managed. During the year, the Board undertook a 
comprehensive review of its principal risks and its risk 
management reporting across the business in order to ensure that 
the level of risk and return aspirations are appropriately balanced.
2015 saw our ﬁrst major demolition and construction projects begin 
at Earls Court and Lillie Square, and in preparation for this we 
reviewed our health and safety reporting across the Group and 
established a Group Safety Leadership Team.
Corporate Responsibility and how we conduct our business in  
the communities and environments in which we operate remains 
inherent in Capco’s strategy and culture. Our employees remain 
committed to our Corporate Responsibility programme and 
throughout the year we have supported a number of charitable 
fundraising initiatives including Maggie’s Culture Crawl, a quiz 
night in aid of the Sir Simon Milton Foundation and the Royal 
British Legion Poppy fundraising day for the fourth consecutive year. 
In addition, sustainability continues to play an important role in our 
business and activities on both of our estates are underpinned by an 
ambitious environmental and sustainability strategy .
LOOKING AHEAD
London’s economic prospects are positive and it is estimated that 
the population will grow signiﬁcantly over the next ten years. 
Capco’s two unique estates are well-placed to beneﬁt from this 
growth, providing vibrant and well-managed places for people  
to live, work and enjoy . Whilst we expect increasing market 
uncertainty due to global and political challenges, Capco’s strategy 
remains clear and focused. With a strong balance sheet we are 
well-positioned to continue to deliver long-term value creation  
for our shareholders.  
Ian Durant
Chairman
24 February 2016
