 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6 
DELIVERING VALUE  
WITH RESPONSIBILITY
Chairman’s statement
Ian Durant, Chairman
Total return
25%
Dividend
 1.5p
Total shareholder return
pence
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
10 May
2010
31 Dec
2010
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec
2012
31 Dec
2013
31 Dec
2014
Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index
Capco has delivered another year of strong performance. Since its 
listing in 2010, the business has grown consistently , delivering 
market-leading total returns for its shareholders. Through this 
time the management team has proven the strategy , invested in a 
unique skillset and deepened Capco’s culture. 
The business retains a strong focus on two prime locations in 
central London, Covent Garden and Earls Court. We have a clear 
strategy and in 2014 signiﬁcant milestones were achieved across  
the business. The Board spends considerable time monitoring the 
changing risk proﬁle of the business to ensure that the strategy 
continues to be appropriate.
The balance sheet remains conservative with low gearing and high 
liquidity , strengthened by our new debt facilities including a US 
Private Placement and a successful equity raise which allowed 
Capco to accelerate value creation across the business. 
Covent Garden continues to thrive as a distinct and vibrant part of 
London. The valuation increased by £284 million to £1.6 billion, a 
25 per cent increase on a like-for-like basis driven by strong leasing 
and investment activity over the year. The redevelopment of Kings 
Court, our largest development to date at Covent Garden, 
commenced in October and we have further expanded our footprint 
through £167 million of acquisitions on the estate. 
Earls Court Properties saw positive momentum over the year and 
the valuation increased by 18 per cent on a like-for-like basis to  
£1.2 billion. The Earls Court Masterplan remains a vital residential 
regeneration project for London in a key opportunity area. An  Governance Financial statements Strategic report
www.capitalandcounties.com 7 
investment vehicle with Transport for London (“TfL”) was 
established early in the year to enable the development of EC1 & 
EC2 and detailed planning consents were achieved within the 
overall Earls Court Masterplan area. At Lillie Square, our joint 
venture launched its ﬁrst phase successfully and construction has 
started on a development that will deliver over 800 new homes in 
this popular and desirable part of London.
Olympia London has had a positive year following our investment 
and re-launch. Over 80 per cent of shows transitioned from Earls 
Court, which closed at the end of 2014. 
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
In 2014, Capco delivered strong performance with a total return  
of 25 per cent which represents the growth in net assets plus the 
dividends paid during the year. The valuation of the Group’s 
property assets increased by 22 per cent on a like-for-like basis and 
total shareholder return, which reﬂects the share price change and 
dividends paid, was 12 per cent. 
The Directors are proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 1.0 pence per share, 
which brings the total dividend paid and payable for 2014 to 1.5 
pence per share. 
I would like to thank Capco employees for their commitment and 
hard work during a year in which they continued to generate 
excellent performance and results for our shareholders.  
THE BOARD
The Board has taken the opportunity to review the Group’s 
Executive structure to reﬂect the growth and evolution of the 
business over the past ﬁve years. Covent Garden and Earls Court 
Properties have reached a scale where they would beneﬁt from 
speciﬁc leadership to reach their potential. As a result Gary Yardley 
and Soumen Das are promoted to the role of Managing Director 
with responsibility for the oversight and investment performance 
of Earls Court & Olympia and Covent Garden respectively in 
addition to their existing responsibilities. Gary’s title will be 
Managing Director & Chief Investment Officer and Soumen’s title 
will be Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer. Both Directors 
will continue to report to Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive. I 
would like to congratulate both Directors on their new 
responsibilities. Their appointments reﬂect the growing needs of 
our business and our commitment under Ian’s continued vision 
and leadership to deliver long-term outstanding performance for 
our shareholders. These changes will take effect on 1 March 2015. 
The Board has been active in planning Board succession to match 
the future needs of the Company with a diverse set of skills, style 
and experience. As we recently announced, Andrew Huntley will  
be retiring from the Board at our forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”), and will step down from the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees on 1 March 2015. The Board and I would 
like to thank Andrew for his contribution to the Board since its 
establishment in 2010. We will be welcoming Gerry Murphy as a 
Non-executive Director on 1 March 2015. Gerry is a former partner 
of Deloitte LLP , and brings a broad range of experience to the 
Board. A description of our recruitment process, which will 
continue in early 2015, is set out in the Nomination Committee 
report on page 64.
TALENT AND DIVERSITY
The Board is committed to developing talent and diversity within 
the business, a key focus because of the increased span of activities 
undertaken by Capco. In Capco’s ﬁrst ﬁve years we have seen that 
investment in talent and skills brings strategic advantage. We are 
proud that Capco has a diverse management team, and the Board 
Capco Chairman Ian Durant and Creative Director Bev Churchill speak at South 
Tyneside College to support the 30% Club, an initiative committed to achieving better 
gender balance in business
encourages the development of future talent. In support of this,  
I, and a number of our Directors, have personally mentored 
individuals as part of Capco’s leadership development programmes. 
The Board will continue to support such initiatives.
DELIVERING VALUE RESPONSIBLY
How we conduct our business in the communities and 
environments in which we operate forms an important part of our 
culture. As long-term stewards of some of the best addresses in 
London, we have a strong commitment to creating public value and 
delivering with integrity . Already at Lillie Square we are starting to 
deliver apprenticeships as the ﬁrst part of our commitment to 
training and skills in the local area. At Olympia London we are 
proud to be leading the events industry by representing the UK  
on the committees developing the international standards in 
sustainable events management. Our employees remain committed 
and engaged with our Corporate Responsibility programme, 
supporting worthwhile projects that maximise opportunities for 
young people where our assets are located. 
LOOKING AHEAD
London is a leading global city and continues to be a magnet for 
people and investment. Despite the uncertainty which may arise 
from the upcoming General Election, we are conﬁdent that 
London’s strengths and popularity will allow it to thrive and 
prosper and our strategy to drive long-term value from our assets 
remains clear and focused. Capco has a deep understanding of 
London and our assets are uniquely well-placed both to beneﬁt 
from and contribute to London’s continued success and world-class 
status. We enter 2015 well positioned to deliver value for our 
shareholders and for London. 
Ian Durant
Chairman
26 February 2015
