 Dec 02
Jun 03
Dec 03
Jun 04
Dec 04
Jun 05
Dec 05
Jun 06
Dec 06
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Weekly user spending
UK£ including VAT (thousands)
CEO’s report
0 CEO’s report
During the year ended March 2007, I am pleased to report that we 
have made significant progress towards developing a Company that 
is positioned to take full advantage of the growth in the mobile web.  
It has been a year of honing our products and our organization to 
become more efficient and more focused on where market demand is 
growing fastest. 
 
Specific activities include investment in our sales and marketing 
presence in the USA and Spain; development of our products and 
technology to make them easier to use and to expand their capability 
and efficiency; and the establishment of relationships with companies 
such as Yahoo! that we believe will be key to our success as the 
mobile web becomes mainstream. 
Bango’s product strength together with our sales and marketing 
activity won us more than 250 new Pro level customers including big 
brands such as Paramount Pictures, MTV and Gameloft and many 
smaller content providers.  These customers signed up to one of our 
mobile web focussed products which generate recurring revenues for 
the business. 
In addition many of these new customers have been successful 
in gaining business on the mobile web, resulting in a significant 
increase in transaction volumes over the year. Comparing March 
2007 with March 2006, average daily user spending was up 48%. 
We revised our revenue growth expectations downwards during the 
year as a result of three factors: a 2 month pause in growth in the 
UK in mid 2006, a slowness by larger companies in deploying their 
Bango powered solutions and a higher attrition rate among smaller 
US customers than we had experienced in other countries. I am 
pleased to report that revenue growth resumed at the end of 2006 
and that we are seeing lower attrition among customers as we refine 
our products and the market starts to expand. 
In January 2007 we initiated a drive to increase efficiency and 
effectiveness where we are seeing most growth and on reducing 
other activities.  An example of this approach has been to exploit key 
partner relationships established in 2006  to implement operating 
cost reductions while increasing sales volumes.   A reduced monthly 
cash burn of under £100,000 at financial year end show progress 
towards positive cash flow and profitability.  Our year end cash 
balance of almost £2 million is considered sufficient to do this.  We 
have adopted a more conservative approach to forecasting and remain 
focused on achieving the transition to profitability in the coming year.
The market continues to develop broadly in the way we envisaged, 
to favour the use of the mobile web as a way to sell and market 
content to users.  UK and Spanish mobile operators announced “flat 
rate” and low cost mobile internet tariffs.  Operators also started to 
open up their portals by including search engines. Major internet 
companies such as Google, Yahoo!, eBay and MySpace are beginning 
to push their PC users to mobiles. Our sales pipeline is expanding 
and customer sign-up rates are increasing. Our unique technology 
and product offering, together with the benefits of our expanding 
network of customers give us competitive advantage. We therefore 
enter the new financial year with confidence and enthusiasm.
Sales and marketing
We continued to develop our regional sales teams, modelled after our 
successful UK operations. The USA team based out of New York is 
making good progress. We expect many successful mobile websites 
will originate there and that many of the global leaders in mobile web 
will be most active in that market. We have a smaller presence in 
Spain, where we see many companies developing mobile sites with 
global appeal. 
Our sales operations focussed in Germany did not show the traction 
we expected. Larger German content providers seem focussed 
on their local market, so the power of Bango’s global reach is not 
as valuable. In addition those German companies with a global 
perspective prefer to engage with the UK based teams.  We therefore 
scaled down our German-specific activities and re-allocated resources 
to a “Pan-European” team. As outlined previously, this is also in line 
with our aim to increase operational efficiency. 
 
We believe that the US mobile content market is currently about 12 
months behind the UK market but growing fast. Complexities of text 
messaging may mean that the US transitions more quickly from the 
SMS messaging phase that we saw in the UK to an internet model. 
The advertising led culture in the US is stimulating growth in the 
mobile web in a way not seen so far outside Japan. The launch of  
the Apple iPhone is raising the awareness of web access through 
mobiles.  
 
Bango Partner Program
During 2006 we invested considerable time and resource in building 
a base of “development partners” who build mobile sites for content 
providers. With more than 30 partners actively participating in this 
program versus 14 a year earlier, we have shifted our focus towards 
making these partners successful and transferred the responsibilities 
of our global partner program into our regional sales, marketing and 
support teams. 
Bango salespeople now engage partners faster in the selling cycle, 
shortening lead times and accelerating sales. Partners get direct 
access to Bango’s customer service teams to enable them to 
better support opportunities. We have a special offering for new 
development partners, enabling them to learn about and integrate 
Bango technology without having to find an initial customer. The 
result of this has been an increased efficiency in dealing with 
partners, lowering costs and with the expectation of increased sales 
productivity in the coming years. 
In the expectation of a rapid acceleration in demand for small, 
low cost mobile websites, we continue to work closely with a 
handful of companies we believe will be important providers of 
such services to “embed” Bango technology into their products.
 
Product development
Our unique technology and the service it enables is key to our 
competitive differentiation.  The development team continued to 
add significant new features and functions to the Bango platform  CEO’s report  
to enable content providers to offer a better user experience and 
to reduce the costs of doing business in the mobile internet. For 
example, our BillRank technology finds the lowest cost biller for any 
payment transaction.  
We also added features to the Bango platform that increased the 
number of visitors to content providers’ sites by providing better 
integration with mobile search engines such as Yahoo!, JumpTap and 
Google. We believe that promotion of content through mobile search 
engines will become an important driver of end user activity in the 
coming years, and it is an area where we see good opportunities to 
leverage our independent industry position. 
System availability exceeded 99.995% during the year. With 
transaction volumes constantly increasing, scalability at low cost 
and without service outage is vital. Our R&D team has steadily 
increased the capacity of the Bango system to stay ahead of demand 
at low cost. We established a third hosting facility and acquired new 
hardware and software for our data-centres from Zeus (cacheing and 
cross-server load balancing) and NetApp (reliable highly scalable 
storage). We also succeeded in achieving Level 2 PCI Data Security 
Standard certification.  
We reinforced our IPR position by applying for further patents relating 
to our BillRank technology.   We were also first to demonstrate the 
new UK “Payforit” user experience which is now automatically 
available to all our content providers. Payforit, a cross network mobile 
internet billing scheme, will become a mandatory requirement for 
mobile commerce in the UK later in calendar year 2007, and will 
accelerate the move away from SMS based payment systems. 
Work to streamline and simplify our “self-service” proposition 
continued and we introduced a zero cost of entry “starter package” 
in preparation for marketing activity with key partners later in 2007. 
If the market develops as we anticipate we need to be able to service 
hundreds of thousands of content provider customers rather than the 
thousands we handle today.  This work is ongoing.  
Financial performance
Revenues grew 38% to £10.43m (£7.53m) and gross profit grew 
12% to £2.47m (£2.19m FY06). 
After slower growth in content access fees in the first half of the 
year, more substantial growth returned in the second half of the year, 
with revenue for the year up by 37% on the previous year.  In line 
with Bango’s decision to increase payouts to larger content provider 
customers, the gross margin percentage on content access fees 
reduced to 13% (2006: 20%).  In absolute terms the gross margin 
earned on content access fees held broadly level at £1.17m (2006: 
£1.31m). 
Content provider revenues grew to £1.54m (2006: £1.00m), up by 
53% compared with the previous year, with margin also increasing by 
a similar percentage to £1.26m (2006: £0.82m). 
Revenue and margin from services to mobile operators decreased to 
£0.03m (2006: £0.06m) as the Company continues to move away 
from one-off sources of income. 
 
Operating expenses (excluding share based payments) increased by 
48% to £5.53m (£3.75m) due to our expansion into new territories, 
product development and increased marketing spend. They reduced 
from around £550,000 per month in October 2006 to below 
£400,000 per month in March 2007. 
The period to December 2006 was marked by investment in 
marketing, sales and partner recruitment to gain presence in 
Germany, USA and Spain. In January 2007 the changes in our 
partner program and sales focus enabled us to reduce our cost base 
by around 30% over a 3-month period while still increasing monthly 
revenues and gross margin. 
Our expectation is that we can continue to grow revenues and 
margins considerably with current operating cost levels, as a result of 
the high leverage we gain from our systems and partners. 
A key focus on entering the current financial year is reducing 
customer acquisition cost to ensure we are in a good position to 
capitalize on our position when the market accelerates. 
The loss before tax was £3.32m, £2.92m before share based 
payments. (£1.53m, £1.36m before share based payments).   
The loss was mostly due to investments in international roll-out, 
primarily in sales and marketing activity. 
The cash outflow from operations was broadly in line with the trading 
results for the period, reflecting the small change in working capital 
requirements despite the substantial increase in revenue and the 
purchase of new hardware to support future increases in demand as 
expected as existing and new customers increase their transaction 
volumes. 
We experienced an increase in attrition rates during the year. Some 
early customers in the USA proved over-optimistic in their revenue 
forecasts and postponed their entry into the mobile web. Some of 
these have since returned now that there are ways to market more 
efficiently.  Bango wishes to supply all potential customers without 
necessarily being able to predict which of those customers will 
succeed in monetizing their content. Therefore our business model 
and technologies concentrate on reducing costs and barriers to 
becoming a Bango customer and ensuring the running costs in the 
early stages of developing a mobile business are low.  
Entering FY2007/8 the net monthly cash burn was around 
£100,000. Further sign-ups of customers and increasing transaction 
volumes are generating increasing gross margin. With costs stable we 
believe our existing resources and further business growth will take us 
to positive cash flow and profitability. 
 
Outlook and strategy for FY2007/ We have established an effective and scalable business in an 
early stage market.  Growth is continuing and current performance 
indicators are favourable. 
With largely predictable and stable operational costs, our focus for the 
year to March 2008 is to continue to drive down customer acquisition 
costs and to strengthen the product proposition.  This will enable 
us to increase our growth rates while maintaining stable operating 
expenditure.  
Our goal is to reach profitability and to be cashflow positive with a 
significantly reduced cost of customer acquisition this year – and 
before the market enters a fast growth phase. This will enable us to 
capitalize on market growth from a position of strength. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my gratitude to 
Bango’s partners and employees for their continued support. Working 
with mobile operators, content providers, billing companies and other 
commercial partners and investors, we look forward to increasing 
success in the year ahead. 
Ray Anderson 
Chief Executive Officer
