 The Board is pleased to report good progress in all areas of the 
business.  Although the performance of the business was not 
consistent throughout the year, the overall picture is one of 
continued growth in revenue, generated by growing numbers of 
Bango customers supplying increasing amounts of content to an 
expanding pool of end users as well as expansion into new territories.
While Bango’s technology and the mobile web have global reach, we 
have focussed our sales and marketing efforts where we see the most 
activity by content providers: USA, UK and Spain. There have been 
numerous customer wins in these territories as a result, including MTV, 
Capcom, Daily Telegraph, FT.com, Agent Provocateur, Jamba, Flycell, 
Betfred, Yamaha Music, EA Mobile, Rascal Flatts, Mediaplazza, 
Cellcity, Hands-On Mobile, Carmunity, MOMO, Paramount Pictures 
and Ministry of Sound. We also see significant potential in the 
gathering momentum among smaller content providers with hundreds 
of small and individual customers signing up since early 2007 when 
we launched our free sign-up Starter package. Our product range 
expanded to address high end customers with our Advantage product.
Compared to the previous financial year, we are pleased to report 
revenue growth of 38% to £10.43m. Our decision to reduce our 
charges for collecting payments for larger customers resulted in a 
slower gross margin increase of 12% to £2.47m. Our established  
UK business remains the biggest contributor to our growth, measured 
both by content providers paying for Bango services and end users 
connecting through Bango to reach or pay for content.  Although we 
saw a slow down in end user spending in the UK during the first half 
of the financial year, which appears to have been due to problems 
with systems at one mobile operator and less activity during two 
summer months, growth resumed in the second half of the year and 
remains solid. 
 
Outside the UK, growth has been faster than in the UK but 
from a smaller base. This has been driven by content providers 
in the UK using Bango to export globally and customers using 
Bango’s global reach to access international content. 
Based on the large number of content provider sign-ups over the 
last two years, we now have a considerable body of operating history 
from which to observe the relationship between content provider 
sign-up and subsequent promotion of their content. Smaller content 
providers appear to exploit the mobile web much more rapidly 
than larger ones. They use the tools and services of the mobile 
internet - including search, mobile advertising and communities 
to a much greater extent than existing brands, which appear to 
be slower to move from older style “text message” campaigns.  
Our management is increasingly focussed on improving Bango’s 
ability to sell quickly and cost effectively to smaller content 
providers, while ensuring that the larger customers are provided 
with the tools and information to grow when they are ready.
The US market is showing tremendous potential, with increasing 
numbers of customers, of all sizes, using the Bango Service. 
They see Bango not only as a route to US based end users, but 
also as a quick and easy route to consumers world-wide through 
the global reach of Bango’s technology and services. However, 
the Board believes that initial US growth in end user spend 
on content may be slower than that experienced in European 
markets as US mobile operators are slower to open up their billing 
services to a wide range of content than we saw in Europe. 
This view is endorsed by the increasing number of US content 
providers investing in Bango products in preparation for marketing 
content to mobile end users, and to gain additional revenues outside 
the USA. 
During January 2007, the Company restructured its sales and 
marketing operations to improve sales productivity, as well as 
giving our strategic partners more support and centralizing some 
previously regional sales activity.  This has led to a significant 
reduction in monthly operating costs and cash burn, and has 
enabled the Company to start the financial year ending March 2008 
with a net monthly cash burn of less than £100,000. The executive 
team remains focussed on sales and marketing efficiency so that 
in circumstances of rapid sales growth the business can sustain 
accelerating customer acquisition rates while containing costs.  
The Company is well-positioned to exploit its market position. The 
product line is strong and there are several innovations coming 
to market that, the Board believes, will enhance the business’s 
competitive stance, seed faster growth and reduce sales cost. During 
2007 we will be introducing further low end products to facilitate 
the move by content providers from PC web to mobile web. The sales 
team continues to raise its productivity, selling more packages per 
sales person, and has increased the number of partners reselling the 
Bango Service. 
 
I am pleased that Bango is gaining partners among not 
only mobile internet businesses and mobile operators, but 
increasingly among the leading internet media companies 
who, in our experience, are starting to recognize the mobile 
internet opportunity and develop strategies for addressing it.
During the year there have been some Board changes. Martin Rigby 
joined us from the world of venture capital while Geoff Seabrook 
will be retiring at the AGM.  We would like to thank him for his 
contribution to the Company. 
 
Bango is a well positioned business that enjoys increasing 
opportunities for growth in revenue in this rapidly expanding market. 
We look forward to providing a further progress update at the half year.
Lindsay Bury
Chairman
Chairman’s report
Chairman’s report 07 
9000
8000
7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
FY 06 FY 07
UK£ excluding VAT (thousands)
UK
USA & Canada
EU (ex UK)
Rest of World
Revenue by geography
