 Overview
It gives me great pleasure to again report on  
a successful year that reflects the hard work 
of our management team, the enthusiasm  
of our staff and the support of our Board.
The Group has continued to build upon its 
solid foundations and remains in a strong 
position to continue as a leading provider  
of high quality specialist social care services  
in a large and growing UK market which 
remains fragmented.
The Group has continued to develop through 
organic growth and reconfigurations and  
with the two acquisitions in July 2015 and 
one acquisition in December 2015 it has 
made further encouraging progress during 
the year and has gained experienced 
management teams with proficient leaders. 
The new businesses have integrated and 
settled well, though our principal focus 
remains organic growth.
A key recent strategy has been the 
development of the Learning Services 
Division which has already had a positive 
impact on gaining new staff, their training and 
retention, and the addition of Dawn Hodge 
Associates has further improved this strategy.
Consolidation and creating  
new opportunities
CareTech remains at the forefront of social 
care outsourcing across both Children and 
Adult Services and in the year there has been 
a further increase in working closely with 
commissioners and regulators as the whole 
system is under stress from the changes that 
policy and financial pressure have brought.
National public policy continues to be  
a significant driver of local authority 
commissioning intentions and behaviour.  
For a number of years public policy  
has encouraged greater personalisation  
of health and social care for adults. 
Commissioners and leading providers  
are driving change that will mean offering 
people more choice and control over the 
care, treatment and support they receive 
while at the same time maintaining the  
quality and safety of those services.
Our care priorities drive successful outcomes 
for our service users and follow closely the 
guidance from central Government.
Our key focus for delivering quality services 
and positive outcomes is supported by the 
following key factors:
Communication 
 – We have open and frank dialogue  
with our service users, their families  
and social workers.
Independence
 – In our social care and health contracts  
we aim to help our clients to return to  
an ordinary life. It may be children who  
can return to their birth families or live 
independently. It may be adults who  
we can help on the pathway to recovery 
following a mental health breakdown or 
people with learning disability who we  
can support towards independent living.
Housing care and support 
 – We know that most people aspire to  
have a place of their own, employment  
and ongoing support. We have structured 
our services, developing new provision  
and creative partnerships with housing 
providers to enable these aspirations  
to be achieved whenever possible and  
we are tailoring training to assist young 
people and adults leaving our services  
to gain employment.
Self-directed support 
 – It is pivotal to Government policy that  
adults and children receiving social care  
are fully engaged in the support that they 
require. With some adults this extends  
to the provision of a cash sum enabling 
them to purchase their care and support 
directly. CareTech managers have been 
reviewing our systems and delivering 
training throughout the organisation to 
ensure that we are able to deliver the 
requirements of self-directed support.
Quality and dignity
 – CareTech has always delivered high  
quality care in exceptional premises. 
However, we have never been complacent 
about this and have undertaken many 
reviews to ensure that we deliver the right 
quality at an acceptable price. We have also 
learned a great deal from the experience  
of our NHS colleagues and developed a 
Dignity Test to ensure that our front line 
and administrative staff treat all our  
clients in ways that promote dignity.
Progress in the year
The year has seen continued progress as  
the Group concentrates on the introduction  
of innovative new services developed in 
partnership with local authority commissioners 
from within our existing portfolio of properties 
or through new properties either purchased  
or rented for service users.
At the end of July 2015 the Group acquired  
the share capital of Spark of Genius and shortly 
afterwards Dawn Hodge Associates so the 
progress has been a mixture of organic 
development and acquisitions.
Spark of Genius is a Scottish-based provider  
of residential care and education services  
for young people with complex needs.  
Dawn Hodge Associates is an Ofsted Grade 1 
care sector apprenticeship training provider 
based in the North West.
Haroon Sheikh 
Chief Executive Officer
20 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
An improved Foundation  
for Growth
Chief Executive’s Statement 
and Performance Review There have been a small number of asset 
disposals during the year where the service 
was not meeting commissioner aspirations 
and a reconfiguration was not possible or 
economically viable.
Our Adult Services have added 35 beds in  
the year, being 13 in Supported Living and  
22 in Residential.
Children Services have added ten beds in  
the year in two services with six beds and  
four beds.
The Group also continues to realise the 
benefit of organisational improvements  
that were put in place over the past few  
years. We have continued to strengthen  
the management structure and improve  
the efficiency of our processes following 
further investment in new systems which 
have gone live in the year such as the Time 
and Attendance system. We are seeing the 
benefits of new executive appointments  
and the Clinical Director role continues to 
have a positive impact across the services.
These improvements have put us in a  
strong position to benefit from a number  
of the commissioning opportunities by 
working in partnership with the NHS and  
Local Authorities.
Care Pathway range and services
The Group’s focus remains the provision of 
specialist social care. This is underpinned by 
a well-defined range of provisions which meet 
all of the commissioner requirements. These 
services are now even more extensive and 
focused on providing high quality care and 
positive outcomes for all of our service users.
The Group continued to develop and grow  
its existing four operating divisions, which 
come under the two outcome-based sectors 
of Adult services and Children services.  
We continue to extend both our geographic 
coverage and our outcome-based Care 
Pathway range of services organically and 
through the purchase and sale of properties 
to meet the needs of our marketplace, 
specifically the requirement for greater acuity 
service provision. This ensures that CareTech 
is in a very strong position to address the 
demands of our evolving marketplace.
Following the acquisition of our second Learning 
Services division business, I am particularly 
delighted to report on the integration and 
development of our apprenticeship model. The 
team has already completed pioneering work by 
developing the apprenticeship model in social 
care, and the CareTech Aspire Programme which 
takes CareTech’s care staff from the foundations 
of mandatory and statutory training to offer the 
opportunity to complete a Level 2 or Level 3 
apprenticeship. At the year end, this programme 
had 460 CareTech apprentices undertaking  
the apprenticeship and has significant growth 
potential both within the Group and across  
the wider social care sector.
We remain committed to the growth of 
residential care solutions for adults and 
children with the most complex needs  
and the CareTech Group has embraced  
the development of home-based solutions 
including foster care where demand for  
more specialist services remain strong.  
Our residential care services for children  
cater for young people with particularly 
difficult issues and offer a national service; 
with strong growth seen in Scotland including 
the addition of Spark of Genius which also 
has properties in the North East of England 
and Roc North West, which has care and 
educational services in the North West of 
England. Our adult services offer a solid and 
reliable provision across the whole spectrum 
of service offerings and we see a particular 
volume demand in the area of supported 
living, balanced by renewed demand for  
more specialised residential care solutions.
Our strategy is to offer a bespoke range  
of options so that we can maintain the  
Care Pathways that distinguish us from  
other providers.
A holiday to Disneyland has been a dream of some 
of our residents at Ashview House for a long time.
Staff were amazing and made sure the residents  
had a great holiday.
21 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements This includes adult residential care homes, 
independent supported living and community 
support services.
The principal reason for the increase 
in underlying EBITDA of £1.9m was the 
reconfiguration of homes from Mental Health 
and their reopening late in the overall year 
which improved the underlying EBITDA margin 
from 30.5% to 32.3%.
We have continued to work closely with 
commissioners and this has helped us to 
achieve our growth through the past year. We 
take a long-term view, recognising that change 
will continue and with this in mind I am pleased 
to report that the closure and redevelopment of 
some of our long stay residential provision has 
been a great success over the past year and will 
continue to meet the changing requirements  
of commissioners and families.
The market for high acuity care and the 
support of people with learning disability is 
growing year on year. Demand for low-level 
support has been impacted by the cuts in  
local authority expenditure but this is not an 
area of activity in which CareTech operates. 
Conversely, resources for those with the 
highest level of need are being maintained  
and increased in some local authorities.
During the past year we have developed  
35 beds through reconfiguration of existing 
residential services. Further new provision  
is under development.
Mental Health 
Revenue £6.4m (2014: £7.3m)
Underlying EBITDA £1.9m (2014: £2.5m)
Capacity 114 (2014: 151)
The reduction in capacity and revenue in 
Mental Health arises because there have  
been a number of services reconfigured 
and transferred to Adult Learning Disabilities.
Mental Health works in partnerships with  
the NHS to ensure a successful transition  
out of acute care, delivering pathways to 
independence. We have an outstanding track 
record for helping people away from acute 
care and supporting them in their own homes.
The adult services for this Care Pathway include 
a community-based hospital, adult residential 
care homes, independent supported living and 
community outreach with some transitional 
services transferred within the Group.
Overview of progress
Our focus during the past year has continued 
to be further building on the businesses 
which established the Care Pathways whilst 
introducing innovative new solutions to meet 
the challenges faced by care commissioners 
and then adding newly acquired businesses 
with complementary skills.
Capacity has increased by 42 places 
principally because we have continued to 
reconfigure services and acquired Spark of 
Genius. Occupancy levels within our mature 
services remain at a creditable 93%, or 86% 
when taking into account our services under 
development and transition; there is a 1% 
improvement on the previous year for the 
mature services.
Much has been written about personalisation 
and I felt it would be useful to set out our  
own understanding and commitment  
to personalisation.
Personalisation means “recognising people  
as individuals who have strengths and 
preferences and putting them at the centre  
of their own care and support” (Social Care 
Institute of Excellence).
The traditional service-led approach has  
often meant that people have not been able 
to shape the kind of support they need, or 
receive the right kind of help. Personalised 
approaches such as self-directed support and 
personal budgets involve enabling people to 
identify their own needs and make choices 
about how and when they are supported  
to live their lives. 
Our two business divisions of Adult Services 
and Children Services comprise the following 
five care pathways:
Adult Learning Disabilities 
Revenue £75.7m (2014: £74.2m)
Underlying EBITDA £24.5m (2014: £22.6m)
Capacity 1,496 (2014: 1,450)
Adult Learning Disabilities provides individually 
tailor-made solutions for people living in their 
own homes, residential care or independent 
supported living schemes. We can work with 
clients to deliver self-directed support packages.
For some people residential care will continue 
as the preferred option and we increasingly 
offer several types of supported living and 
packages of individualised self-directed 
support to people in their own homes.
Community Mental Health has always been 
a critical but relatively neglected area of social 
care. However, this is changing as the NHS drives 
to lower bed capacity and accelerated early 
discharge from acute psychiatric hospital care. 
The growth of social care is certain and the 
response by Government to one of the key 
difficulties is progressing. There has been 
some progress in the removal of large 
numbers of learning disabled people from  
the controversial ‘Treatment and Assessment 
Centres’ operating at various locations 
throughout the UK. CareTech has never 
operated any centres of this type but we 
understand that the CEO of NHS England has 
been tasked with ensuring that these centres 
are re-provided as a matter of urgency. 
CareTech is seeking opportunities to support 
the project and to offer a comprehensive 
solution within its community homes.
We are well positioned for further expansion 
in Mental Health and have a sustainable 
infrastructure to deliver growth. 
Foster Care 
Revenue £9.8m (2014: £12.0m)
Underlying EBITDA £2.4m (2014: £3.0m)
Capacity 301 (2014: 320)
Foster Care provide for both mainstream  
and specialist foster care in small supportive 
Groups across England and Wales for children 
with disabilities. We also provide foster care 
family assessments in the home rather than  
in a residential setting.
The reduction in capacity, revenue and 
underlying EBITDA in Foster Care arises due to 
the competitive nature of the market as well as 
because of the change to family assessments 
in the home and also due to capacity being 
reported on the new basis of children that 
carers are able to look after rather than the 
number they are approved for.
This trend is driven by cost considerations, 
where fostering is considerably less expensive 
than residential care and by perceived quality 
care factors. It is generally held that fostering in 
an ordinary family home delivers better quality 
than any residential setting. However, the rising 
tide of fostering has been constrained by the 
challenge of finding foster carers with the right 
skill and motivation alongside preference by 
social workers to place within local authority 
services rather than the independent sector.
22 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Statement 
and Performance Review
continued In 2013, 46% of children placed in foster homes 
were outsourced to the independent sector. 
This compares with 67% placed in residential 
homes operated by independent providers.
Our Foster Care teams and Young People 
Residential teams are working alongside  
each other to offer the best outcomes for 
young people.
Our market intelligence suggests that most, if 
not all, independent sector fostering agencies 
are experiencing some degree of “hold back” 
at present. However, the consensus view is 
that this will not last long and local authorities 
will inevitably return to progressive outsourcing 
of foster care provision.
Outsourcing is well established in the culture 
of most local authorities, but the current 
austerity measures have led a small number of 
authorities to reflect on the 50% fee premium 
paid for independent fostering. This disparity  
of cost can be attributed in part to the fact  
that the most complex and therefore most 
expensive children are placed in the care of 
independent providers. However, it is also  
clear that local authorities fail to undertake a 
full cost analysis of their in-house provision. 
Wherever this has been done, outsourcing  
is demonstrably much better value.
Demand for foster care has increased overall but 
we have noted an increasing trend among some 
local authorities to make provision in-house for 
all but the most complex children. In our view 
this is an expensive and unsustainable approach 
that exposes local authority commissioners to 
risk. Our own services are being maintained at  
an acceptable level. Looking forward we are 
training our foster carers with the skills required 
to manage more complex work and have 
linked the fostering division with our residential 
team for children so that we can maintain an 
effective care pathway.
Young People Residential Services 
Revenue £22.4m (2014: £21.9m)
Underlying EBITDA £8.2m (2014: £7.4m)
Capacity 205 (2014: 153)
A number of children and young people need 
to live in specialised residential services and 
receive education. As far as practicable we  
aim to help these children move into a more 
normalised family style environment.
This segment contains children residential  
care homes, which includes facilities for 
children with learning difficulties and 
emotional behavioural disorders (“EBD”),  
and small specialist schools.
In the year this segment benefited from two  
new services which have added 10 beds.  
We also acquired Spark of Genius which will 
provide significant benefits across the divisions 
due to their well established education facilities 
across Scotland and North East England.
Children residential services have been growing 
as our reputation for quality care and support 
spreads. We are currently developing new beds 
and places that have been commissioned 
during the past year. 
Learning Services 
Revenue £10.0m (2014:£7.9m) 
Underlying EBITDA £0.9m (2014:£0.1m)
CareTech acquired EQL Solutions in November 
2013 and is a national provider specialising in 
employment and training services to young 
people and adults. The necessary investment 
and re-structuring is now complete.
Its intensive pre-employment, development  
and apprenticeship programmes use public 
funds from the Skills Funding Agency to lay the 
foundations for individuals to achieve their career 
goals while helping to provide businesses with 
the vital skills they need in their workforce.
As well as supporting the workforce, EQL 
Solutions has also developed programmes for 
service users by enhancing the pathways to 
independent living and employment. Young 
people leaving care, for example, often do not 
know where to find the right job opportunities 
or have the opportunity to access employer-
focused training. We can now bridge that gap 
by supporting young people as they make the 
transition to adult life. We are also exploring 
how best to help individuals return to 
employment after mental illness and to give 
people with learning disabilities the skills and 
confidence to gain employment so that they 
are able to live more independently.
Early mapping with CareTech’s core business 
has gone well. Good progress has been made 
in identifying the potential for EQL Solutions  
to add value to CareTech’s attraction and 
recruitment of staff and their retention, helping 
new employees gain the skills and qualifications 
to grow a successful career in care through  
an Apprenticeship.
Kathryn Graham lives in a CareTech service and attends 
the Martello Centre. Kathryn works for CareTech for 2 
half days a week, helping make the centre user friendly 
by producing signage in Makaton symbols. Kathryn has 
worked for our training department for six years and at 
the Martello Centre for three years.
“Foster care is on a rising 
trend in terms of both 
numbers placed in foster 
care and expenditure by 
local authorities.”
Laing and Buisson, 
2013
23 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements An Apprenticeship is a work-based learning 
programme designed around the needs  
of employers, which leads to nationally 
recognised qualifications. It is available to 
anyone aged 16 and above and is made  
up of a practical competency component, 
on-the-job training and off-the-job learning. 
As well as Apprenticeships being a practical, 
cost-effective way to recruit and train new 
social care employees, many employers 
consider the framework to be a useful 
learning and development route for  
their current employees, across all  
ages and experiences.
For some time the Group has felt that the 
ability to offer pre-employment training to 
potential recruits, alongside Apprenticeships 
and other development solutions for existing 
employees, would enhance and support 
many aspects of CareTech’s outcome-based 
approach. We are delighted that the learning 
and development specialists in EQL Solutions 
are now working with all of the care divisions 
to continuously improve the standards of care 
and delivery across all our services. We look 
forward to collaborating with our partners to 
spread best practice and innovative training 
across the wider social care sector.
I am pleased to confirm that we have made 
good progress with EQL Solutions and the 
team are strongly motivated to develop their 
initiatives in the world of social care through 
the Aspire Programme.
Aspire has been developed by EQL Solutions 
as a unique and innovative scheme that  
will ensure all CareTech’s support workers 
receive mandatory and statutory training  
to the highest standard whilst also being 
offered the opportunity to complete a  
Level 2 or Level 3 Apprenticeship which  
has been carefully tailored to suit their role.
CareTech apprentices have now begun their 
training with 460 CareTech support workers 
undertaking the apprenticeship programme.
Dawn Hodge Associates was acquired due  
to its Ofsted Grade 1 and experience of  
the social care sector. The services of EQL 
Solutions and Dawn Hodge Associates 
complement each other and provide the 
foundations for a strong learning division 
within the Group. 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
We have continued to strive for long-lasting 
improvements in our services in a way  
that is consistent with the interests and 
concerns of our stakeholder community.  
As always, the driving force underpinning 
CareTech’s whole operation continues  
to be the provision of the highest quality  
of care to our service users.
We care about our service users
Service users are the reason for our  
existence and satisfying their needs  
remains our key objective.
As our organisation grows, we strive to 
maintain a culture which never forgets the 
important relationship we have with our 
service users. We seek to nurture these 
relationships and see them as partnerships  
of mutual interest and respect, with our 
person-centred approach ensuring service 
user interests are safeguarded and 
vulnerabilities minimised.
The further expansion of our Care Pathway 
strategy seeks to provide our service users 
with “whole of life” solutions to their needs, 
maximising independence where possible  
by encouraging education, promoting  
choice, being proactive with family relations, 
providing employment where feasible and 
nurturing personal ambition where helpful. 
In the year we have been celebrating the 
achievements of our service users across  
the country, they have been busy creating  
art pieces for an Art Competition and the 
finalists are having an awards presentation  
in early December 2015.
We are determined to preserve the dignity  
of those we care for and fully support 
Government initiatives to this end. We see 
making each day as fulfilled as possible  
for our service users as a vital ingredient  
to their, and our, success.
We care about the environment
We seek to maximise environmental 
standards in all areas of our organisation. 
Energy costs are now more closely monitored 
centrally and with the installation of  
smart meters being rolled out across  
our services we are seeking to encourage 
more efficient consumption of energy, 
without compromising service user care.
Clinical waste management has an 
environmental impact and we are focused  
on ways to make this more effective whilst 
still adhering to statutory requirements.
Dawn Hodge Associates, purchased by CareTech 
in July 2015. A training company which is Ofsted 
Grade 1 Approved.
24 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Statement 
and Performance Review
continued We aim for minimal waste production and 
waste-free processes. Encouraging the 
involvement of our workforce in seeking new 
ways to “be green” is important and we are 
striving to reduce our carbon footprint in all 
commercial areas including promoting recycling 
initiatives, developing a carbon offset scheme 
for paper usage, using public transport where 
feasible and improving our energy efficiency.
We care about our staff
We remain committed to ensuring employees 
share in the success of the Group and fully 
appreciate that Group performance is affected 
by the relationship we have with them.
Sustaining the retention and development  
of employees is also critical to our continued 
success and we remain of the belief that 
fostering a positive workplace culture is  
the best way for our employees to thrive. 
Supporting them with regular supervision, 
training and clear career development 
programmes promotes staff continuity and 
leads to improved standards of care quality.
In early December 2015 we are having a staff 
awards ceremony with ten categories for staff 
and staff teams across each Division for the 
2015 Awards. It is planned to hold a similar 
event in 2016.
Out of a total of 3,739 staff at the end of 
September 2015 68% are female and equal 
opportunity for all remains at the heart of our 
recruitment policies and the diversity of our 
workforce bears this out. We value our staff at 
all levels and work closely with them through 
our robust human resources department to 
foster consultation in all matters, ensure fair 
pay for all, maximise conditions of service  
and facilitate flexible working where feasible.
During the year we undertook a Staff 
Engagement Survey which involved all staff 
and looked at values and questions across  
five engagement drivers. The feedback has 
led to a Communication Plan that will lead to 
improved communication across the Group.
We have a team of in-house training staff 
delivering courses on all relevant subjects, 
enabling our workforce to gain the skills, 
knowledge and confidence to provide the 
care and support to our service users on  
a daily basis.
Our sharesave share option scheme is being 
re-launched to offer new invitations regularly 
and will be available to all our employees.  
This participation, along with regular senior 
management share option awards, contributes 
to the fulfilment of our desire to reward staff 
for loyalty, diligence and effort.
We care about quality and safety
As a Group, our aim is to provide a safe working 
environment for service users, staff and visitors. 
We value the well-being of all stakeholders  
and develop policies to this end.
Maintaining workplace infrastructures is a 
core objective and sustained investment in 
Information Technology, furniture, facilities 
and equipment enable working environments, 
be they operational or administrative, to be 
safe and productive.
Regulation is vigorously applied with routine 
and regular inspections being made by the 
Care Quality Commission (“CQC”) and Ofsted 
in England and the services are regulated by 
the Care and Social Services Inspectorate 
Wales (CSSIW) in Wales and by the Care 
Inspectorate for Scotland.
We continue to resource our own highly 
experienced internal quality and compliance 
teams which undertake a programme of 
regular inspection and assessment and give 
constructive feedback backed by training  
and supervision if the requirement is there. 
We engage the services of outsourced  
expert advisers ensuring best practice  
and procedures are maintained.
We care about our communities
Doing business the right way is of 
fundamental importance to us. A successful 
business needs to operate in healthy, thriving 
communities and needs to be seen as a good 
neighbour to those communities.
We have direct involvement in a variety  
of community-based programmes further 
improving our service reputation and helping 
to foster a strengthened relationship with 
local authorities.
Being a socially responsible organisation  
with a focus on developing our ethical 
standards aligned with our economic 
objectives remains a core aim and we strive  
to identify the real value of our organisation, 
beyond its bottom line. Considering non-
financial values such as reputation, employee 
commitment and service user fulfilment  
helps us see longer-term opportunities and 
risks, ultimately saving money and time.
Behaving responsibly and maximising  
the benefits of a strong relationship with  
our stakeholders is an integral part of  
a continuing process of building  
long-term value.
Outlook
The coming year shows every sign of being 
good for health and social care providers  
and especially for those with an established 
reputation for quality and innovation. 
Since the 2015 General Election there has 
been significant policy development in the 
pipeline and we see some indicators that 
local authorities have recognised the need to 
maintain, or grow their social care budgets.
In our view we are in a period in which 
consolidation will again feature strongly 
within the corporate sector and we are  
alert to quality opportunities that may arise. 
However, we are mindful about acquisition 
and have robust criteria which must be 
satisfied to ensure that any acquired company 
fits our strategic development objectives.
This has been another progressive year for 
CareTech and I am indebted to the strong 
management team who have managed the 
services in what has been a challenging 
environment for the care sector. 
CareTech provides high quality care, support 
and outcomes to our service users. I remain 
proud to lead the Group, delivering a quality 
of care that makes such a difference to so 
many lives.
Haroon Sheikh
Chief Executive Officer
20 January 2016
25 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
