 05
The Board is pleased to report good progress in the business.
A	key	focus	for	the	year	was	to	use	Bango	technology	to	introduce	
simpler, lower priced Bango services to improve sales and 
marketing	efficiency .	The	results	have	been	encouraging.	Revenue	
grew	32%	compared	with	the	previous	year	to	£13.76m.	Margin	
earned	on	monthly	fees	grew	36.5%.	Over	the	same	period,	
these changes enabled us to reduce sales and marketing costs by 
approximately	50%.
 
W e	are	now	operating	close	to	break-even	on	a	monthly	basis	and	
with growing sales from a stable cost base and with a strong sales 
pipeline. We are introducing further products and services that 
can be sold using the existing sales and marketing organization.
Today’s mobile phones include web browsers and internet 
connectivity	as	standard.	Millions	of	people	now	browse	for	
information and use search engines on their mobile phones. They 
view advertising and buy content from mobile websites. Those 
website owners want to sell services and content such as music, 
videos, games and alerts globally and incur the lowest possible 
cost of sale. Bango meets those requirements.
When users click to “buy”, the transaction is routed by Bango 
and payment made via the user’s mobile phone bill or alternate 
method. Bango makes this transaction straightforward because our 
software not only connects to the world’s leading mobile network 
operators and other billing providers, but uniquely handles the 
necessary	end	user	screen	flows,	currency	conversions,	taxes	and	
regulatory requirements without extra complexity for the content 
provider.
 
Over	9,000	new	content	owners	signed	up	to	use	the	Bango	
system	during	the	year ,	a	more	than	fivefold	increase	in	sign-up	
rate	over	the	year .	The	value	of	the	Bango	Service	is	demonstrated	
by	the	fact	that	larger	organizations	such	as	Gameloft,	WWE,	EA	
Games,	MTV	and	Paramount	Studios	are	users	of	our	service,	
alongside thousands of much smaller companies and even 
individuals.
Customers	are	staying	with	the	Bango	Service,	moving	from	free	
trials and low end services through our portfolio of services as they 
expand their business and their needs change.
T ransaction	volumes	are	growing.	Overall	user -spend	through	
Bango	grew	by	26%.	Outside	the	UK,	which	is	our	longest	
established	market,	user	payment	activity	grew	faster	at	59%	year	
on year.
 
The traditional way to supply, market and monetize mobile content 
was	through	SMS	and	MMS.	The	move	to	an	internet	model	brings	
benefits	to	the	consumer	in	terms	of	usability	and	transparency ,	
and to the content provider in terms of marketing opportunities. 
For this reason the mobile operators are now starting to actively 
push	the	migration	from	SMS	to	the	mobile	web.	Bango	stands	to	
benefit	from	this	move	from	SMS	to	the	web	due	to	our	leading	
position in that market and the ease of moving to the mobile web 
with our product line.
Bango is a well positioned business that enjoys increasing 
opportunities for growth in revenue in this rapidly expanding 
market. We look forward to providing a further progress update at 
the half year.
 
Lindsay Bury 
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
