 Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
“ We believe that the strategic plan  
we are implementing will reshape 
Carpetright to ensure the business 
better capitalises on its market  
leading position.”
Earnings and dividend
T otal revenue for the year ended 2 May 
2015 increased by 4.9% (2014: £447.7m). 
Underlying profit before tax increased by 
208.7% to £14.2m (2014: £4.6m).  After 
the impact of exceptional items, profit 
before tax was £6.6m (2014: loss of £7.2m).  
Underlying earnings per share increased to 
15.5p (2014: 4.7p) and basic earnings per 
share was 6.7p (2014: loss of 5.3p).
The Board has decided not to pay a final 
dividend. In taking this decision, the Board 
has considered that whilst there has been 
an improvement in profitability during the 
year, the priority for the use of cash is to 
accelerate activity to reduce the fixed 
occupancy costs and to invest in the 
remaining stores to broaden the appeal  
of the brand.  That said, if we maintain  
our current progress the Board would  
look favourably on restoring the dividend  
in due course.
The Board
There have been a number of changes to 
the Board during the year .  The management 
team is led by the new CEO, Wilf Walsh, 
supported by an excellent team. They have 
begun the hard work of repositioning the 
business to better capitalise on its market 
leading position, to deliver the performance 
our shareholders expect and deserve.
During the year, Andrew Page took on  
the role of Senior Independent Director  
and Sandra Turner became the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee.  David 
Clifford remains as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and, together, these three 
Board colleagues provide a strong team  
of Non-Executive Directors.  Further details 
of the Board’ s work can be found in the 
Directors’ report starting on page 22 of this 
Annual Report.
Our people
The Group is undergoing a period of 
significant change as we reposition the 
business.  On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank everyone who has worked for 
Carpetright over the past year. Working in 
our stores, distribution centre or support 
offices presents many challenges every 
day and we are grateful for the outstanding 
dedication and commitment of them all.
Summary and outlook 
After a difficult few years, it is pleasing to 
report these much improved results for  
the year, with growth in profits, strong and 
consistent like-for-like sales growth in the 
UK, a return to profit in the Rest of Europe 
and a net cash position at the end of  
the period.
We believe that the strategic plan we are 
implementing will reshape Carpetright to 
ensure the business better capitalises  
on its market leading position.  These 
changes will take time to take full effect  
but the initial signs are encouraging.   
We are absolutely focused on building  
on the recent improvement in the Group 
performance, as well as devoting our 
energies to revitalising our brand and 
operations. 
Bob Ivell
Chairman
Overview
This is my first Annual Report since being 
appointed Chairman of Carpetright in 
November 2014.  I am pleased to be able 
to report on a year of significant progress 
under the leadership of Wilf Walsh, following 
his appointment as Chief Executive Officer 
in July 2014.
The opportunity to revitalise Carpetright 
after a period of sustained economic 
turbulence is significant.  Wilf, with the 
support of his team, has begun to 
implement a strategy focused on 
broadening the appeal of the brand by 
placing greater emphasis on the unrivalled 
breadth and quality of our product range; 
the expertise of our colleagues; and the 
role floor coverings play in transforming  
our customers’ homes; while also retaining 
our well-established value heritage.
The strategic update on page 9 provides 
more details on this plan.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
2
