 I am pleased to present our results for the  
year ended 30 September 2015. This has been 
a successful and exceptionally busy year the 
key highlights of which have been:
 – Share placing funds raised of £21m 
 – Strengthening of management team
 – Amending and extending banking facilities  
on improved terms 
 – Increased organic initiatives
 – Completion of two acquisitions during  
the year and one in December 2015
Whilst the management team has been actively 
involved with these important initiatives it is 
really pleasing to note that we have continued 
to maintain our position as an excellent care 
provider with our high quality ratings across the 
Group. Moreover, we have extended our care 
pathways through successful outcomes for 
the people we support. As a result we have 
improved our occupancy rates during the year 
which has led to an increase in our underlying  
EBITDA margin.
This has produced a credible set of financial 
results where:
 – Underlying EBITDA has increased by 5.9%  
to £32.5m
 – Underlying PBT has increased by 11.7%  
to £22m
 – Underlying diluted EPS had increased  
by 2.5% 
 – Full year dividend increased by 5% to 8.40p 
All of the above mentioned initiatives 
have assisted the team in delivering a solid 
performance on both the key financial and 
non-financial metrics and puts the Group  
in the strong position to target double digit 
underlying EPS growth going forward.
CareTech Group has stood out within its peer 
group of providers as a company that can 
successfully combine quality, integrity and 
sound financial acumen and has consistently 
achieved high care quality ratings. Our 
credibility as the provider of choice has never 
been stronger and we continue our successful 
growth strategy with a confident outlook.
As announced in March 2015 the company 
raised £21 million (before expenses) by way  
of a placing with new and existing institutional 
investors as well as Directors and certain 
Senior Executives. It was pleasing that the 
placing was oversubscribed and our plan  
was to invest the money in acquisitions within  
12 months. Investment of the funds has been 
completed earlier than planned with two 
acquisitions in July 2015 (Spark of Genius  
and Dawn Hodge Associates) and one on  
1 December 2015 (ROC North West). In July 
the Group completed negotiations to improve 
its banking facilities and to extend the facility 
by a further two years to January 2019, with 
the addition of a £30m Accordion facility.
During 2015 we closed several services for 
reconfiguration which impacted the growth  
in Revenue. Offsetting this there are better  
fees following our reconfiguration cost saving 
initiatives and the time and attendance system 
has improved underlying EBITDA. The Group’s 
Organic Development Programme will 
continue with further reconfigurations and  
for 2016 we have a strong pipeline of 
development opportunities.
CareTech joined AIM in 2005 and we are 
therefore celebrating our 10th year in the 
public markets. During this time the business 
has transformed from being very focused on 
supporting adults with a learning disability 
through residential and day care settings to 
one where today we cater for young people 
and children with complex needs across a 
range of settings, be it residential, supported 
living or community support. We focus on the 
most complex and vulnerable young people 
and the market for this client group stands at 
over £10bn. There is currently an undersupply 
of specialist beds in the niche area and the 
market is growing by almost 3% per annum. 
Over the years we have developed a range  
of care pathways and helped many that we 
support to live more independently. This  
is a fantastic outcome for both us and the 
individuals that we support and it also helps 
local authorities meet the ever increasing  
cost of social care provision.
On joining AIM in September 2005 the 
company had a capacity of 435 places,  
an underlying EBITDA of £2.4m with our 
underlying diluted EPS of 4.1p. Today our 
capacity has increased almost five fold  
to 2,116, our underlying EBITDA has  
grown significantly to £32.5m today  
whilst underlying diluted EPS has risen  
to 31.79 pence per share. Underlying  
EBITDA and diluted EPS has grown  
by an impressive CAGR of 30% and  
25% respectively since IPO.
Even with significant growth we have 
achieved to date we still have less than 2%  
of this very large and fragmented market.  
With the increasing regulatory burden,  
the opportunity for further consolidation is 
even more attractive. Given our experienced 
management team, our range of care 
pathways focused delivering positive 
outcomes for the individuals we support  
and our long established track record within 
the industry we are extremely well placed  
to be able to continue to do this going 
forward. This underpins our aspirations  
to deliver double digit EPS going forward. 
Dividend
The Group policy has been to increase the 
total dividend per year broadly in line with  
the movement in underlying diluted earnings 
per share.
That growth in 2015 was 2.5% so the Board 
has proposed a final dividend of 5.60p  
(2014: 5.40p) per share bringing the total 
dividend for the year to 8.40p (2014: 8.00p) 
per share. This represents a full year increase 
of 5% year on year. The final dividend will  
be paid, subject to shareholder approval,  
on 9 May 2016, with an ex-dividend date  
of 3 March 2016 and an associated record 
date of 4 March 2016.
Whilst the management team  
has been actively involved with  
these important initiatives, it is  
really pleasing to note that we  
have continued to maintain our 
position as an excellent care  
provider with high quality  
ratings across the Group.
A busy 2015 creating a 
springboard for further growth
Farouq Sheikh 
Chairman
10 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s Statement Our Board
There have been no changes to the Board 
during the year. As a foundation for growth 
the Senior Executive Team at CareTech has 
been strengthened with the appointment  
on 14 April 2015 of John Ivers as Chief 
Operating Officer. We have made several 
other senior appointments underpinning  
the growth of the business.
During the year the Remuneration Committee 
and the Audit Committee were unchanged 
whilst Michael Hill left the Care Governance 
and Safeguarding Committee and the Clinical 
Director Dr. Junaid Bajwa and the Chief 
Operating Officer John Ivers both joined  
the committee.
Our People
We have completed our planned evolution  
into two well defined operating divisions, 
Children and Adult Care, and this has 
generated organisational efficiencies. 
Simplifying the structure has also supported 
planning and service delivery with a more 
powerful approach to development.
Managers and front line colleagues have 
continued to deliver exceptional commitment 
during the year, working vigorously with 
commissioners to reduce costs while 
maintaining quality. The most striking 
achievement of our front line staff has been  
to ensure the continuing safety of our service 
users during a period when demands for cost 
reduction could have put individuals at risk. 
Our continuing growth, measurable success 
and forward-looking approach are a reflection 
of the hard work and dedication of staff and 
managers throughout the organisation. I am 
always drawn to the achievements of our 
excellent front line staff, which is inevitable as 
we are first and foremost a care organisation. 
Their care and commitment would be much 
less without the dedicated support of our 
administrators and support teams whose hard 
work and energy is critical to the success of 
our company and the care we provide.
Outlook and Prospects
We understand the market and have 
anticipated shifts in social and health policy. 
Our understanding of the social care 
environment remains strong and we are 
positioned to take further change in our stride 
and have an improved platform for growth. 
With the money raised from shareholders  
and our own free cashflow generated from  
the business, we have major investment  
plans for 2016 and beyond with key new 
organic developments and bolt-on 
acquisitions. Importantly, we have also 
strengthened our management team,  
offering a forceful blend of experience, 
commercial wisdom and dedication to  
care. I have no doubt that the next few  
years will see continuing growth and  
care excellence which will help deliver  
our target of double digit underlying EPS 
growth going forward. 
Farouq Sheikh
Chairman
20 January 2016 
11 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
