 06
C E O ’ s 	 s t a t e m e n t	
I	am	pleased	to	report	that	in	the	year	ended	March	2008	
we	made	significant	progress	towards	ensuring	that	Bango	is	
financially	self-sufficient	and	able	to	take	full	advantage	of	the	
growth in the mobile web. It has been a year of focusing our 
people	and	technology	to	become	more	efficient	and	operating	
where market demand is growing fastest, and on getting the 
business	to	profitability	and	cash-flow	positive.
Improving sales productivity 
In	my	last	Annual	Report	I	stated	that	we	would	strengthen	our	
self-serve	product	proposition	to	enable	us	to	drive	down	our	
customer acquisition costs and grow sales and margins without 
increasing expenditure.
 
The results have been encouraging. Compared to the previous 
financial	year ,	we	are	pleased	to	report	revenue	growth	of	32%	to	
£13.76m.	Margin	earned	on	monthly	fees	grew	36.5%.	Over	the	
same	period,	our	new	product	line-up	enabled	us	to	reduce	sales	
and	marketing	costs	by	approximately	50%.	
Product	releases	during	the	year	included	a	range	of	simplified,	
lower cost products including Bango Payment World, Bango 
Advantage	UK,	Bango	Payment	UK/USA/España	and	the	Bango	
Button.	In	particular ,	Bango	Payment	UK	enabled	businesses	
anywhere in the world to launch commercial Payforit services 
within	minutes,	for	below	£300	per	month.	
A	new	web	sales	team	was	established	to	drive	customers	through	
a	“self-serve”	sign-up	at	Bango.com,	worldwide,	at	significantly	
lower	cost	than	previous	sales	motions.	Our	regional	teams	in	
Germany ,	Spain,	US	and	UK	were	replaced	by	a	small	worldwide	
corporate sales team selling to accounts anywhere in the world 
that have more complex requirements.
 
Bango’s technology and the mobile web have global reach, but 
take-up	rates	and	content	provider	activity	vary	by	country	–	
depending on the emergence rates of the mobile web in those 
countries. During the year, the emergence of mobile search and 
mobile advertising from Google, Yahoo! and others has increased 
the	opportunities	for	cross-border	marketing	by	content	providers.	
This enabled us to centralize our marketing to these content 
providers	and	deliver	a	consistent	message	worldwide.	Localized	
marketing	in	the	UK,	Spain	and	Germany	was	centralized	into	a	
multilingual team with one common message worldwide and a 
common sales motion irrespective of the location of the business.
 
Marketing	investment	shifted	from	“face	to	face”	activity	at	
events and seminars to web based marketing, webinars, referral 
programs, blogging and search engine optimization. These work 
worldwide and make us more easily contactable by anybody 
wanting to reach mobile phone users through the mobile web, 
where	our	technology ,	especially	for	identification,	payment	
collection or analytics, is of value.
Growing transaction volumes 
Content	access	fees	grew	32%	to	£11.72m.	As	indicated	in	
our interims, the margin earned on payment transactions is now 
around	9%,	reflecting	our	desire	to	keep	our	transaction	fees	down	
to	the	1-2%	level	for	the	largest	content	providers	and	our	ability	
to	charge	up	to	30%	for	very	low	volume	customers.	
Bango	Analytics	now	also	drives	“paid	for”	transactions,	generally	
paid for “per thousand”, to align with the way website owners 
buy	advertising	that	they	measure	with	analytics.	Bango	Analytics	
transactions and sales started in the last six weeks of the year, but 
revenue	contribution	from	these	was	not	significant.		
Driving towards profitability and cash generation 
After	a	year	of	significant	marketing	and	development	investment	
last	year ,	our	plan	for	the	year	was	to	drive	towards	profitability	
and	cash	generation.	As	a	result	of	our	cost	reductions	and	
increasing	sales,	we	reduced	losses	(at	EBITDA	level)	down	from	a	
£240K/month	average	in	the	last	financial	year	to	£144K/month	
average	in	our	first	half	and	then	to	£93K/month	average	in	the	
second	half,	with	continued	progress	towards	break-even	during	
the	final	months	of	the	half	year .
While	increasing	sales	will	drive	profitability ,	we	believe	there	
are	still	opportunities	to	improve	our	efficiency ,	to	enable	us	to	
capitalize	on	market	growth	from	a	position	of	financial	strength.	
Bango currently has no borrowings and the Directors believe the 
Company	has	sufficient	resources	to	meet	its	current	financial	
needs. However, the Directors further believe that additional 
capital	could	be	deployed	to	beneficial	effect.	For	example,	Bango	
has recently accelerated the timing of cash payments to some 
content	providers,	for	a	fee,	to	enable	faster	re-investment	by	
them in search engine marketing with Google, Yahoo! or others. 
Consequently a number of initiatives are under active evaluation 
and further announcements will be made as appropriate.
Product development 
In	February	2008,	we	launched	Bango	Analytics,	a	new	product	
that enables businesses of all sizes to get a better return from 
their investment in marketing and advertising campaigns on the 
mobile	web.	Our	unique	technology	captures	valuable	data	about	
mobile users responding to campaigns and presents it in an easy 
to	use	form	to	enable	informed	decision-making.	
It is a widely held view within advertising agencies that the 
inability to measure the effectiveness of mobile marketing is 
holding	back	investment.	Bango	Analytics	is	the	first	product	
available to meet this need. We already have a number of case 
studies at www.bango.com. 
Gartner	(IT)	forecasts	the	mobile	advertising	market	to	grow	
to	£5.5	billion	in	global	revenue	in	2011,	up	from	less	than	
£500m	a	year	in	2007.	T ools	such	as	Bango	Analytics	which	can	
improve the return on this investment should be able to attract a 
significant	part	of	this	expenditure.	
Being	first	to	market,	exploiting	our	8	years	of	technology	
development and with an established initial customer base, and 
low costs of sale, Bango is well positioned to capitalize on this 
growth. We have packaged our unique technology for a new set 
of	customers	–	those	that	use	the	mobile	web	for	marketing	or	
customer engagement rather than for selling digital content.
 
CEO’ s	statement 07
We continued development of our Payment products and the 
evolution	of	our	integration	and	Management	tools	to	improve	
usability and effectiveness. We also launched a number of product 
initiatives to reduce barriers to using the mobile web and Bango 
technologies, and to attract prospects to sign up at the  
www .bango.com	website.	These	included	W AP .com,	Bango	Button,	
Bango2Go,	check.wap.com	and	Bango	Optimized.	The	number	
of customers converting from free trials to paid for products has 
shown that this process is working. 
System	availability	was	excellent	during	the	year	–	with	less	than	
two	hours	lost	in	total	during	the	year	(99.98%	availability).	W ith	
transaction volumes constantly increasing, scalability at low cost 
and	without	service	outage	is	vital.	Our	R&D	team	has	steadily	
increased the capacity of the Bango system to stay ahead of 
demand	without	significant	capital	expenditure.
 
During	the	year ,	third	party	action	caused	us	to	lose	A T&T	USA	
billing	for	11	weeks	and	several	weeks	US	credit	card	processing.	
These outages took considerable time and energy to rectify, but 
have resulted in better processes and relationships going forward. 
Financial performance 
Revenues	grew	32%	to	£13.76m	(£10.43m	FY07)	and	gross	
profit	grew	12%	to	£2.77m	(£2.46m).	Revenue	from	outside	the	
UK	grew	by	over	57%	to	£3.08m	(£1.96m)	and	accounted	for	
22.4%	(18.7%)	of	total	revenue.
Content provider revenues, mostly recurring monthly fees, grew 
by	28%	during	the	year	to	£1.97m	(£1.5m).	Margin	on	these	
revenues	grew	by	36.5%	to	£1.72m.	(£1.26m	FY07).	Stable	
delivery costs mean that as content provider revenues grow, the 
gross margin improves.
Content	access	fees	grew	by	32%	compared	with	FY07	and	
accounted	for	85.2%	(85.0%)	of	total	revenue	in	the	year	at	
£11.72m	(£8.86m),	delivering	£1.02m	(£1.17m)	of	gross	
margin.	The	change	in	gross	margin	percentage	from	13.2%	
in	FY07	to	8.7%	in	FY08	was	a	result	of	Bango’ s	decision,	as	
reported	in	October	2007,	to	lower	transaction	fees	for	larger	
content provider customers.
 
Revenue	and	margin	from	services	to	mobile	network	operators	
remained at low levels and are not an important part of the 
business.
 
Sales	of	Bango	Analytics	products,	launched	6	weeks	from	year	
end,	did	not	make	a	significant	contribution	to	revenue	in	the	
period under review.
Operating	expenses	(excluding	share	based	payments)	decreased	
by	20%	to	£4.4m	(£5.5m)	as	a	result	of	significant	improvements	
in	sales	and	marketing	efficiencies.
 
The	loss	before	tax	was	£1.83m	(£1.57m	before	share	based	
payments),	improved	by	45%	compared	with	the	loss	of	£3.32m	
(£2.92m	before	shared	based	payments)	in	FY07.
The	cash	outflow	from	operations	was	£0.87m	(£2.82m)	about	
£0.7m	better	than	the	loss	before	tax	and	share	based	payments,	
as	a	result	of	limited	capital	expenditure	(£22k	in	the	year)	and	
stronger management of debtors and creditors.
 
Outlook and strategy for FY2007/8 
We have established an effective and scalable business in an 
early stage market. Growth is continuing and current performance 
indicators are favorable. With largely predictable and stable 
operational	costs,	our	focus	for	the	year	to	March	2009	is	to	
increase the number of customers using our system with a stable 
cost base.
The market continues to develop broadly in the way we envisage. 
The	predictions	made	in	last	year’ s	Annual	Report	have	almost	
all proved accurate, with Bango starting to see the anticipated 
benefits.	A	year	ago,	the	mobile	web	was	seen	by	many	as	a	
novelty. Today it is seen as an important and growing driver of 
consumer usage of mobile devices.
Work with Google during 2007 led to new contracts with large 
content providers and some of these have now started to generate 
early revenues.
Our	new	Bango	Analytics	product,	released	in	February	2008,	is	
first	to	market	and	is	receiving	excellent	reviews.	While	there	was	
little	contribution	from	this	product	in	FYE	March	2008,	we	do	
expect sales from this product in the coming year, through our 
existing sales and marketing organization.
 
Our	goal	is	now	to	deliver	sustained	profitability	and	positive	
cash-flow .	The	significantly	reduced	cost	of	customer	acquisition	
achieved this year, before the market has entered a fast growth 
phase, should enable us to capitalize on market growth from a 
position of strength.
 
On	behalf	of	the	Board,	I	would	like	to	express	my	gratitude	to	
Bango’s partners and employees for their continued support. 
Working with mobile operators, content providers, billing 
companies and other commercial partners and investors, we look 
forward to increasing success in the year ahead.
 
Ray Anderson 
Chief	Executive	Officer	
CEO’ s	statement
