 Transforming  
homes
Q. Y ou’ve now been CEO 
for almost a year – has what 
you’ve seen on the inside of the 
business matched your original 
expectations?
A. Yes. The quality and enthusiasm of the 
people who work here primarily and the 
fact that the business has an opportunity 
to build on our popularity with customers 
much more effectively.
Q. What have you changed  
in the period you have been  
in post?
A. It’ s a team effort but apart from who we 
are, what we sell, how we sell it and where 
we sell it – not much actually! We  have 
been working hard on re-engineering all 
aspects of the customer offer and really 
ensuring that the journey from researching 
us online to having the product fitted in 
your home is better than the competition 
every step of the way.
Q. What can you tell us about 
your first 100 days?
A. Like being at a new school really, but 
mainly listening and learning about how 
this business works. The key is trying to 
look at it from a customer’ s point of view 
which, given my lack of relative experience 
in this market, was fairly easy for me.  
On the positive side, I have been able  
to come into the job with no previous 
baggage and a completely open mind.
Q. What were your initial 
priorities when you came  
on board last July?
A. T o inject some stability into the business 
after a fairly fraught few years littered with 
profit warnings and senior management 
changes. T o restore confidence and to 
develop a clear, unequivocal strategy that 
colleagues could identify with and that 
customers would respond to positively.
 
“ We have been working hard  
on re-engineering all aspects  
of the customer offer and really 
ensuring that the journey from 
researching us online to having  
the product fitted in your home  
is better than the competition  
every step of the way.”
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
5 Strategic report continued
Chief Executive’ s Q&A continued
Q. The Group’ s performance 
improved significantly last  
year – which factors contributed 
to the turnaround?
A. Sheer hard work and we have only 
scratched the surface. We identified a clear 
strategy based around Choice, Experience, 
Value and Convenience and all our activities 
have been geared around this – giving the 
customer the right ranges, at the best 
prices with great customer service.  
People often try to make shop keeping 
complicated which is a big mistake.
Q. What will the business 
do this year to build on this 
momentum?
A. There is a lot going on but the biggest 
areas for change will be around our total 
floor covering offering – we are testing a 
whole new range of products especially in 
the non-carpet area as we drive to be the 
customer’ s number one flooring destination 
of choice. We are also opening our four 
new test stores over the summer – we are 
testing a new logo, new ranges, fixtures 
and fittings, which is all very exciting.
Q. Looking at operating 
performance in 2015, what 
stands out for you?
A. Well, ultimately it’ s all down to the 
numbers and you hope that like-for-like 
sales growth in the UK of 7.3% and a Group 
profit increase of 208.7% speaks for itself. 
Importantly, the reaction of our colleagues, 
some of them very long serving, to the 
changes we have introduced has been 
very positive. We have also enjoyed a 
stellar performance in our beds category, 
which is driving both footfall and profit.
Q. Y ou conducted a strategic 
review of the business – what 
were the key conclusions and 
what are the implications for 
Carpetright’ s future direction?
A. The business wasn’t broken and still 
had a leading market share. The issue was 
that customer expectations had moved on 
and overtaken where Carpetright was and 
we are now addressing this. For instance 
Value is a key pillar of our offer, but we had 
been running too many heavily discounted 
deals in the 60% and 70% range which 
was devaluing our brand and switching  
off customers who are motivated by other 
criteria such as service or availability of the 
highest quality ranges.
We introduced interest free credit very 
successfully and this, along with our “Price 
Promise” (never beaten on price), and the 
promotion of the day should ensure we 
have a clear proposition for the consumer 
when it comes to Value.
Q. There’ s a sense that 
Carpetright needs to  
modernise its stores –  
what needs to be done? 
A. A store modernisation programme has 
been underway for some time – over 300 
stores have been refitted – but this needs 
to be bolder far-reaching, rather than 
incremental.  Our aim is to broaden the 
appeal of the brand and attract new 
customers that would not have previously 
considered shopping with us, without 
alienating our loyal existing customer base.
Our stores need revitalising, with a new 
more contemporary feel that’ s more in-tune 
with today’ s retail market and we need to 
make buying floor coverings a hassle-free 
experience, eliminating those elements  
of the process that customers tell us they 
find confusing or irritating.  We’re trialling 
some new ideas in four stores in and 
around London and the lessons learnt  
from this programme will used to shape 
the development of a new store format 
which will be rolled out across our UK estate.
We also need to look at the size and  
shape of our store portfolio to make  
sure it’ s appropriate for the current market.  
Given today’ s customer does their research 
online and will drive a longer distance for 
the right deal, the need to have two or 
three Carpetright’ s in a single town, as we 
still do in some places, is clearly redundant 
and we’re addressing that.  We also have  
a small number of loss-makers and a 
number of stores that only make a small 
contribution and we need to tackle those 
with greater urgency.  On the flip side,  
there are still parts of the UK where we  
are under-represented which present  
the opportunity for new store openings.
Shopping habits have changed significantly 
over the last decade and Carpetright 
needs to make sure its stores have moved 
with them.
Q. Y ou’ve talked about plans 
to extend the appeal of the 
Carpetright brand – how will  
you achieve that?
A. Anybody who has seen our recent 
press and television advertising will have 
noted a “softening” of the message away 
from just price and an extended focus on 
home transformation without losing the 
Value message. We want to extend our 
appeal to all kinds of customers and we 
have previously under-indexed on higher 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
6 Q. The business is implementing change across a broad  
front, how quickly can you roll out these multiple initiatives  
and when will the results begin to become apparent?
A. It’ s started and we’re getting results now. For instance, customer service is 
absolutely central to the whole experience. Unlike other big ticket retailers, buying 
floor coverings has a whole raft of moving parts – someone comes into your home 
to measure up for instance and another one comes in to do the fitting. Making the 
whole process as painless as possible is key to our success.
I want to get more letters like this –
Dear Mr. Walsh, 
We recently visited your Erdington store and my expectations sank from the 
moment my wife saw the tartan carpet priced at over £50 a square metre.   
I used reason and the fact that neither of us is Scottish.  So we, naturally, 
ordered the Stewart carpet.
The chap who took our order was very polite and helpful but not in deterring 
my wife from spending over two thousand pounds on a sitting room carpet.
Your estimator came along to the house and was very professional and 
supportive but did not try very hard to put my wife off the tartan carpet.
The carpet was fitted today by two very professional and helpful chaps that 
kept telling us what a wise choice we had made which was annoying as they 
could have said, it didn’t fit or something.
T onight, we have a very beautiful carpet that my wife loves and has been 
complemented by both our daughters, friends, neighbours, etc.  In truth  
I like it but I’m not yet prepared to admit it.
In honesty, at £50 plus a square metre it is an expensive carpet but it looks 
great and is worth every penny.  My wife will, hopefully, feel guilty enough  
to agree to me spending a couple of days fly-fishing in Hampshire.  
Thank you, your company who have delivered in every way possible and 
provided excellent value for money.
I wish you and your company every success in the future and please pass 
on my compliments to your Erdington staff.
Richard Hornsby 
Birmingham
Obviously, I have received a few letters and emails pointing out some instances 
where the service has not been so glowing but I have chosen not to publish  
them here!
We have successfully rolled out the ‘Do We Measure Up?’ programme across the 
estate since the start of 2015. Since the start of this programme we have received 
over 70,000 emails from customers detailing their experience – it’ s essential 
information that allows us to tackle specific service issues as well as to continue  
our improvements in this area. Our overall scores are continuing to improve and it 
keeps colleagues focused on providing great service.
We have rolled out numerous initiatives successfully over the past few months, 
including Interest Free Credit, a completely refreshed Carpetright website, revised 
product ranges – the list goes on, but these are all things that both customer 
research and colleague feedback have told us we need to do.
A good example is Rugs – when I first looked at our choice and range and 
compared it to the competition it made me realise very quickly that on design and 
pricing we had some significant work to do. We have resolved that with a range 
that covers all price points and is creatively worthy of the market leader.
spend customers. Nonetheless, the 
message is clear – Carpetright is for all 
customers with a broad appeal and  
Value will always be central to our offer.
Q. What is your main strategic 
agenda as CEO?
A. T o reinforce our position as the market 
leader in floor coverings across all our 
territories.
Q. How will strategic success be 
defined in the next five years?
A. Increased market share, substantially 
increased profits and stronger brand 
approval ratings.
Q. What are the opportunities or 
catalysts for earnings growth?
A. Redressing our estate portfolio will be 
key – reducing the number of stores and 
getting our rent and rates bill down is 
essential. Other than that, it is doing the 
customer facing stuff extremely well.
Q. How about operations 
outside the UK?
A. Because of the economy and the legacy 
property portfolio, the Republic of Ireland  
is a challenge from a profit perspective. 
Nonetheless, recent significant double digit 
growth in LFL sales will go a long way to 
mitigating the problem. 
As for the Netherlands and Belgium,  
Nick Worthington and the team in Utrecht 
have done a great job managing costs  
and margin and have turned around a 
€4.4m loss last year into a €0.4m profit this 
year. We have also seen two consecutive 
quarters of LFL growth for the first time in a 
long time and we are extending a curtains 
and blinds trial in the Netherlands which 
looks like a sustainable profit opportunity.
Q. The Company’ s performance 
has suffered in recent years, are 
you optimistic for the future?
A. Extremely positive – I have a team  
of people around me who are absolutely 
focused and aligned on what we have to 
do. We need to get on the front foot and 
build on our popularity with customers. 
Nobody should be able to match our 
website, our comprehensive store 
coverage, our range, our prices or our 
customer service. It’ s a compelling offer, 
which when executed properly should be 
unbeatable – that’ s the plan.
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
7
