 The CareTech Group has evolved 
through a mix of organic and prudent 
acquisitive growth that has led to  
our current position as one of the 
best-established and reputable 
national social care providers. We 
have national coverage in a highly 
fragmented UK social care market. 
We cover the majority of the social  
care spectrum except elderly care.
CareTech has always operated at the highest 
acuity range on the social care spectrum, 
providing individual tailor made solutions for 
people living in their own homes, residential 
care or independent supported living 
schemes. We believe that we should 
continue supporting those with the greatest 
need and this accords with local authority 
commissioning trends.
Adults with learning disabilities are 
increasingly being provided with direct 
funding to enable them to purchase their 
own care and support. We work actively 
with service users and advisory bodies to 
deliver self-directed support packages and 
see this as an increasingly important aspect 
of our service model, as well as offering 
commercial opportunity.
For many people with the most complex 
intellectual or physical challenges, 
residential care will continue to be the 
preferred option although the services will 
change in their approach as we move toward 
a more enabling, modern type of service. 
An alternative to residential care is the 
opportunity for people to live in a home of 
their own, sometimes shared with others. 
CareTech is a leader in the provision of 
supported living and offers packages of 
individualised self-directed support to 
people in their own homes.
“Foster Care is on a rising trend in terms  
of both numbers placed in foster care  
and expenditure by local authorities.”  
Laing and Buisson 2013.
Foster Care is undoubtedly the best care 
solution for most “looked after” children.  
Most children thrive in foster care where  
they are supported within an ordinary  
family home and with trained foster carers. 
CareTech provides for both mainstream and 
specialist foster care through local agencies 
across the UK. Unusually we offer a highly 
respected service for physically and 
intellectually disabled children as well  
as support for children with sensory 
impairments. We provide foster care  
family assessments and ongoing support  
to children who remain with their birth 
families and in their family home.
Mental health provision continues to 
dominate the health and social care  
agenda. Good mental health is a significant 
contributor to a healthy community and 
national economy, while mental ill health is 
devastating to individuals and their families. 
Most commissioners are driven by a wish to 
reduce patient time in acute care and rely on 
creative outsourcing to dramatically cut the 
cost of mental health care in hospital and 
within the criminal justice system.
CareTech’s mental health team works  
in partnership with the NHS and social service 
departments to ensure a successful transition 
out of acute care and the prison service, 
delivering pathways to an ordinary life. We 
also have an outstanding track record for 
diverting people away from acute care 
and supporting them in their own homes. 
CareTech’s highly effective care teams are 
developing new ways to offer community 
support solutions and we believe that this  
will be an important growth platform in  
years to come.
The total market value is estimated (Laing  
and Buisson 2013) to be worth £7bn for  
children services and £8bn for the care of  
younger adults (below 65 years of age) in  
the learning disability and mental health 
categories. The private sector share of this  
market has developed through successful 
outsourcing of services and this trend is  
expected to continue. Local Authorities  
have largely protected their budgets for  
children and complex younger adults.
Adult Learning 
Disabilities
Mental
Health
Foster
Care
Capacity 1,496 (2014: 1,450)
Split by – Residential care
–  I n de p e n de n t s u p p or t ed  
living
–  Community support services
Capacity 114 (2014: 151)
Split by – Residential care
–  I n de p e n de n t s u p p or t ed  
living
–  Co m m u n i t y o u t r e a ch
Capacity 301 (2014: 320)
Split by –  Residential care of children 
and young people
–  Family assessments in 
the home
Adult Services Children Services
Caring 
every day
2 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Group at a glance For a relatively small number of children, 
residential care offers a safe and helpful 
solution for their care needs and CareTech 
has developed an extensive range of highly 
technical care environments where those 
children will thrive.
Our residential provision offers high staff 
ratios and highly skilled carers, capable  
of ensuring both safety and progression. 
These are high cost services where we aim 
for an intensive period of care and a strict 
timetable that delivers results at a fair price  
to commissioners. As far as practicable  
we aim to help these children move into a 
more normalised family style environment  
as soon as it is wise to do so.
These services are highly intensive 
operations with exceptional staff ratios 
and include on-site or dedicated 
educational facilities.
Since modern apprenticeships started  
several years ago we have witnessed a 
dramatic shift in the way young people enter 
the adult workforce. People are increasingly 
opting for an apprenticeship as an alternative 
to or as well as attending University. This  
was especially true of the Care Sector but a 
whole new generation of young people are 
now looking at the apprenticeship model  
as their further training of choice.
Through acquisition and the development  
of established apprenticeship providers 
CareTech has embraced the opportunity  
to capitalise on this change and to work 
closely with Government agencies to improve 
the quality and skill base of our national 
workforce. We have chosen to call our 
apprenticeship scheme a Learning Service  
to reflect the aspiration of the young  
people we work with.
Although EQL Solutions provide training 
across the whole workforce we have  
naturally developed expertise within  
the very extensive social care sector.
Learning services addresses an adult social 
care workforce in England of some 1.16m 
people, 905,000 of whom work within the 
independent sector (Skills for Care 2013).
There are 17,300 organisations providing 
Adult Social Care in England and the 
majority of these are operating at far too 
low a scale to deliver their own training or 
apprenticeship programmes. EQL Solutions 
and Dawn Hodge Associates, which was 
acquired in the year, have significant 
market presence in social care and are 
well positioned to support both smaller 
companies as well as corporate providers.
The Government aims to increase the 
number of apprenticeship starts for younger 
people and has committed to providing an 
additional £40m for 20,000 new higher 
apprenticeship starts in the current (2015/16) 
academic year.
Capacity 205 (2014: 153)
Split by –  Residential care of children 
and young people
–  Education services for 
children and young people
Capacity 301 (2014: 320)
Split by –  P r e e m pl o y m e n t  
programmes
–  D e v e l o p m en t p r o g ram m e s
–  A p p r en t i c e s hi p s
Young People 
Residential 
Services
Training
Learning Services –  
EQL Solutions and Dawn 
Hodge Associates
3 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Quality
Hilary Knell has been attending the centre 
for approximately 12 years where she has 
learnt to cook meals from scratch. 
Quality is not simply compliance 
with the requirements of 
regulation, although that remains 
important. Our approach is to 
employ well qualified and skilled 
professionals who can ensure 
that we consistently exceed the 
expectation of our service users, 
their families, social workers 
and commissioners.
Placing people in the care of 
organisations that you can trust 
The business of care is predicated 
on relationships, as much as it is on 
the practical support and guidance 
that we offer on a daily basis. 
Troubled children need the warmth 
and challenging support of their care 
workers while disabled adults make 
best progress within the trust that  
a great relationship brings.
We are also mindful that social 
workers will prefer to place people in 
the care of organisations that share 
their commitment to optimism for 
service users, that they can rely on 
and deliver outstanding value.
4 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements 6 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CareTech Group has stood 
out within its peer group of 
providers as a company that 
can successfully combine 
quality, integrity and sound 
financial acumen and has 
consistently achieved high care 
quality ratings. Our credibility as 
the provider of choice has never 
been stronger and we continue 
our successful growth strategy 
with a confident outlook.
Choice
Innovative Care Pathways 
One of the characteristics that 
differentiates CareTech from the 
average provider is our commitment 
to opportunity. Long before it became 
fashionable we introduced the 
concept of a Care Pathway to reflect 
our optimism that users of our 
services can make progress in their 
lives. We were never content to accept 
that someone in residential care 
should always be in residential care 
and developed alternatives at an early 
stage in our development as a Group.
Stuart Ravenscroft lives in a service at CareTech and he 
attends the centre for craft sessions, music and movement 
and woodwork. Stuart has been coming here for many 
years and is very proud of the work he achieves in our 
craft sessions, which also encourages recycling materials.
7 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements National presence 
CareTech is very well known as a 
care company in public ownership 
that operates throughout England, 
Scotland and Wales. Our national 
presence is reinforced through 
conferences and publications where 
the CareTech view is frequently 
sought and taken into account.
Strong brand 
Financial security, probity and 
reliability combine to offer 
confidence in the CareTech brand. 
We offer high quality services with a 
strong ethical base with the benefits 
of scale, operating within friendly 
and trusted local service businesses.
We are delighted to announce the 
acquisition of Spark, whose impressive 
growth in the past few years reflects 
the quality and innovation of its services 
and the strength of its local authority 
relationships.
Spark of Genius joined the 
CareTech Group in July 2015.
Through their education-
based approach they have 
become the market leader 
in their sector in Scotland. 
With the existing management 
team they will continue to 
develop the business and 
the services provided.
Growth
8 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
