  
04 CEO’s statement 
 
CEO’s statement 
 
Business is progressing well at Bango.  Sales are up.  Operating 
costs are down.  Bango has a strong pipeline of prospects and 
increasing transaction volumes from existing customers.  With a 
large market opportunity ahead, Bango has continued to develop its 
unique technology to adapt to market conditions and maintain our 
competitive advantage. 
 
Approximately 70% of Bango’s revenue growth has come from 
customers that increased their use of the Bango payment service 
during the year. The remainder is from new customers signed up 
during the year. They chose Bango to benefit from the potential of 
the internet as a channel for their content to reach mobile 
consumers, now that web access is increasingly possible on mobile 
devices. 
 
Many Bango customers are starting their transition from using 
SMS aggregators to send payment messages to the commercially 
more attractive and consumer friendly mobile web model.  It is 
commercially more attractive because Bango delivers significantly 
higher conversion rates of clicks to collected payments than 
alternatives. This translates into significantly higher profits for 
Bango customers or their ability to out-spend their competitors in 
marketing. 
 
Following investment in developing web self-service systems at 
www.bango.com and the restructuring of the sales and marketing 
organization, Bango has reduced the cost of customer acquisition.  
The costs of operating the largely automated services are stable, so 
Bango expects to derive some valuable economies of scale in the 
future as absolute gross margins continue to grow ahead of costs. 
 
Growing transaction volumes 
End user revenue grew by 36% year on year, and 61% half on half. 
It is now running at 2.7 times the level experienced in early June 
2008. Gross profit on end user spend was maintained. Margin 
percentage reduced from 8.7% to 6.4% overall as a result of 
Bango’s decision, reported previously, to lower transaction fees for 
larger content provider customers, resulting in significant increases 
in revenue from larger customers and the opportunity for 
substantial future growth.  
 
Bango sees significant potential for growth in the volume and end 
user value of transactions from our current customers. Internal 
estimates indicate that the Top 10 customers have moved around 
5-10% of their operator billing activity from legacy SMS 
aggregators to Bango during the year.  There are compelling 
business reasons for much of the rest to move to Bango and the 
company is working with our customers and the mobile operators to 
facilitate this transition.  
 
As new mobile network operators (MNO) connect to Bango to 
provide their billing services to Bango customers, this will also drive 
transaction volumes. The AT&T and Sprint contracts won before the 
beginning of the year under report drove most of the growth in US 
transactions. In April 2009 Bango signed an agreement with T-
Mobile USA to further expand Bango’s US coverage. This will enable 
increased transaction volumes for existing and future customers.   
 
Growth also comes from new customers, Bango has a sales pipeline 
of large and medium sized businesses that have either not yet 
started the transition from legacy SMS to mobile web or who want 
to move from the traditional “PC” web to the mobile web to benefit 
from the increasing volume and spending power of mobile phone 
users.  As customers sign up and start using the Bango service, 
their success in selling their products via the mobile internet drives 
more transaction volume. 30% of transaction volumes came from 
customers won during the year. 
 
Growing the Bango customer base 
Bango’s self-serve process, coupled with web marketing, PR and 
industry reputation has generated several thousand customer sign-
ups at www.bango.com for both payment and analytics customers.  
Bango sales and marketing teams then support these customers to 
upgrade their basic product, which generates more customers 
paying a recurring monthly fee, and motivated to drive end user 
spending. 
 
In early 2008 Bango introduced a range of simpler and lower cost 
products, requiring reduced sales effort and allowing us to reduce 
sales and marketing costs by about £0.7m year on year. Some 
migration occurred with existing customers moving to lower cost 
Bango products, although the impact was only £0.08m year on year. 
This move put Bango in a stronger position for future growth and 
strengthened our competitive position.  
 
In January 2009, Bango changed from a policy of encouraging free, 
indefinite, use of low end “Analytics S” products to one of offering a 
one month “free trial” of the more capable “Analytics M” product 
which normally incurs a small monthly fee.  Around 10% of these 
trials upgraded to a paying customer.  This was a higher rate than 
the number of customers upgrading from the “free” product in a 
similar time period, and it appears that prospects were more 
motivated to integrate and test the product during the first month.    
 
Shortly after the year end Bango expanded this process to Payment 
products. More than 11,700 users registered for the free “Bango 
Starter” payment product. The plan is now to offer them a more 
functional product for a small monthly fee.  Extended use of the 
free product, other than an initial trial period will be phased out. 
 
Sales and marketing activity 
Bango decided in early 2008 to reduce prices and strengthen the 
self-serve product proposition.  This was to enable a reduction in 
customer acquisition costs and grow sales and margins without 
increasing expenditure. For the second year running, costs have 
been reduced while sales and operating margins have grown, 
demonstrating the success of this approach. 
 
The “self serve” sign up at Bango.com was augmented by a small 
telesales team during the year, enabling Bango’s “industry experts” 
to focus on larger accounts with more complex requirements. This 
ensures Bango assist larger prospects transition from using SMS 
aggregators to the Bango “mobile web billing” platform.  
 
Bango Analytics had its first year of sales, and is off to a promising 
start with several leading brands adopting the product to measure 
the effectiveness of their mobile marketing campaigns. 
 
With its reputation for accuracy and independence of measurement, 
Bango is seeing the first signs of Bango Analytics being used as an 
“independent measurement” of page traffic and quality – to enable 
mobile website owners to sell advertising space at higher prices.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
