 04
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC DELIVERY 
I am pleased to report that the Group has 
delivered another record year of profit before 
tax. This is particularly encouraging given the 
challenging market backdrop across all three 
of our divisions. Achieving this performance 
is testament to the management team and 
employees of the Group and the Board would like 
to thank everyone involved for their dedication 
and continuing to strive for excellence.
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIRMAN
“The Group’s diversity, both geographic and 
operational, has driven performance, with another 
year of record profit.”
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
Revenue for the year fell by 4.1% to £411.6 
million (2014: £429.0 million). Profit before 
tax was up 5.5% to £17.5 million (2014: 
£16.6 million). This comprised an 8.8% 
increase in Agriculture profit before tax to 
£10.4 million (2014: £9.6 million), a 6.3% 
increase in Food profit before tax to £2.4 
million (2014: £2.3 million), and a 16.7% 
reduction in Engineering profit before 
tax to £3.1 million (2014: £3.7 million). 
Basic earnings per share were up by 4.7% to 
13.4 pence per share (2014 restated: 12.8 
pence), with fully diluted earnings per share 
of 12.9 pence (2014 restated: 12.3 pence) 
and adjusted earnings per share, excluding 
non-recurring items and amortisation of 
intangibles of 13.6 pence (2014 restated: 
13.1 pence). Net debt decreased slightly to 
£24.4 million (2014: 24.6 million). 05
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In addition, on 10 September 2015 it was 
announced that Robert Heygate had decided 
to stand down from the Board after 25 years’ 
service, with effect from April 2016. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Bob, for 
his contribution, dedication, enthusiasm, and 
support during his time with Carr’s. 
OUTLOOK
In the year ahead we expect the headwinds 
seen across all three divisions to continue.  
However, we remain confident that the 
Group’s diversity and resilient business model 
positions us well to make further progress 
in 2016. We will continue to build on our 
success and invest for the future across the 
Group, both in the UK and internationally. 
We expect our innovative approach, in 
particular the development of new products, 
to continue to differentiate us from the 
competition and we will remain alert to 
suitable complementary acquisitions. This, 
alongside plans to develop existing businesses 
organically, ensures the Group is well placed 
in the medium term.
CHRIS HOLMES
Chairman
11 November 2015
CHANGE OF NAME
At a General Meeting on 8 April 2015 the 
shareholders approved the change of Company 
name from Carr’s Milling Industries PLC to 
Carr’s Group plc with the change effective on 
9 April 2015.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
As a result of the change of name to Carr’s 
Group plc the Board have reviewed the 
Articles of Association and have asked the 
Company’s solicitor to amend the Articles in 
line with minor regulatory changes and best 
practice. The resolution to adopt the new 
Articles will be proposed at the AGM on 
5 January 2016, and a copy of the Articles 
will be enclosed with the notice of the AGM.
SHARESAVE SCHEME
The Carr’s Milling Industries Sharesave 
Scheme 2006 expires in 2016 so no further 
options may be granted to employees under 
the scheme. Therefore a replacement, Carr’s 
Group Sharesave Scheme 2016, incorporating 
the old scheme and updates necessary for 
changes in legislation, has been drafted and 
a resolution to adopt the replacement scheme 
will be proposed at the AGM on 5 January 
2016. A copy of the main terms of the 
replacement scheme will be enclosed with 
the notice of the AGM. 
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a 8.8% increase in 
the final dividend to 1.85 pence per ordinary 
share, which together with the two interim 
dividends, each of 0.925 pence per ordinary 
share paid on 15 May and 9 October 2015, 
make a total of 3.7 pence per share for the 
year (2014 restated: 3.4p), representing 
an increase of 8.8%. The final dividend, if 
approved by the Shareholders, will be paid 
on 15 January 2016 to Shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 18 December 
2015, and the shares will go ex-dividend on 
17 December 2015. 
THE BOARD 
During the year, John Worby was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Board, taking 
over as Senior Independent Director and Audit 
Committee Chairman from Alistair Wannop and 
Robert Heygate respectively. John’s experience 
in FTSE 250 companies Fidessa plc, Genus 
plc, Cranswick plc and Uniq plc, coupled with 
his financial and sector experience, enhances 
the Board’s expertise. Since the year-end the 
Board has been further strengthened with 
the appointment of Non-Executive Director 
Ian Wood, who has extensive experience in 
the engineering and energy sectors, working 
currently for Centrica plc.
In Agriculture, the business continued to build 
on the momentum established in previous 
years, with our retail operations expanding 
into new territories through both acquisitions 
and organic growth. Our geographic presence 
and relevance of our product offering will be 
key to supporting farming customers, given 
the tough market climate they face over the 
forthcoming year.
Our international feedblock business has 
performed well, with a key strength of the 
business being our geographic reach. In 
the UK, lower farm incomes, coupled with 
excellent quality forage, resulted in reduced 
demand. However, in the USA we have seen 
a significant uplift in demand on the back 
of the rebuilding of beef herds together with 
favourable weather conditions. We continue 
to invest heavily in the R&D of these products 
both in the UK and internationally to drive 
future growth.
The Food division has delivered further growth 
despite changes in the consumer market 
having an adverse impact on our customers, 
which is expected to continue into the current 
financial year. Our continuing excellent 
customer service across all three mills ensures 
we are well placed to face these challenges 
and ensure the needs of our customers are 
surpassed.
It has been a tough year for our Engineering 
division, with a combination of the depressed 
oil price and the impact of a complicated 
factory move affecting our precision 
engineering business, Chirton Engineering. 
Additionally, reduced activity in the nuclear 
sector in Japan and economic sanctions with 
Russia impacted Wälischmiller. However, we 
have continued to invest across the division 
in order to build for the future and to benefit 
from the expected increase in demand from 
the UK nuclear sector. 
GOVERNANCE
The Board is mindful of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and takes its responsibilities 
very seriously. It continues to strive to comply 
with all areas of the Code and a full report on 
Corporate Governance can be found on pages 
25 to 27. All Directors will be standing for 
election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
on 5 January 2016.
SHARE SPLIT
The Company’s shares split 10:1 on 14 
January 2015 following shareholder approval. 
This reduced the nominal value of the 
ordinary shares to 2.5 pence each, and was 
undertaken to primarily improve the liquidity 
of the Company’s shares.
