 10
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
During the year we have continued to build 
on our vision to be recognised as a truly 
international business at the forefront of 
innovation and technology across Agriculture, 
Food and Engineering. 
Our strategy remains centred around four key 
pillars:
•  investing in our people, who are vital to the 
long term success of the business;
• investing in our asset base, to ensure we 
retain our competitive advantage;
• driving product innovation across each of our 
divisions;
• delivering growth through acquisitions and 
organic expansion.
These strategic pillars are at the heart of each 
of our divisions and their implementation has 
ensured we have once again delivered another 
record year of profit growth for the Group.
Our investment in the business has continued 
to be a priority. Major projects commenced and 
completed in the year include:
•  $2.3m redevelopment of a feed block facility 
at Silver Springs, Nevada, USA;
•  £0.2m on redevelopment of the Country Store 
network; 
– Rothbury 
– Selkirk 
– Appleby
TIM DAVIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
•  £0.3m on land acquired at Morpeth adjacent 
to our existing machinery Country Store;
•  £1.0m Acquisition of WM Nicholls & 
Company (Crickhowell) Ltd completed in 
October 2014;
•  £0.9m Acquisition of Reid and Robertson Ltd 
completed in June 2015;
•  £0.3m Acquisition of Green (Agriculture) Co 
completed September 2015;
•  £0.7m new factory for Chirton completed in 
March 2015;
•  £0.3m on new equipment to further enhance 
food safety for Carr’s Flour Mills.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX BY SECTOR
AGRICULTURE 
£10.4m
FOOD 
£2.4m
ENGINEERING 
£3. 1m
8.8% UP
FROM 2014
6.3% UP
FROM 2014
16.7% DOWN
FROM 2014
“The Group has delivered another record 
performance, driven by operational and geographic 
diversity, despite headwinds in all divisions” 11
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The geographic spread and operational 
diversity of our businesses within the 
Agriculture division led to another record year. 
FEED BLOCKS
Feed block sales in the USA have been 
exceptional this year with sales volumes, 
excluding joint ventures, 19.9% higher. 
Record production levels have been driven by 
favourable market and weather conditions. 
The drought in the South East, Mid-West 
and North West States continues to recede, 
resulting in beef herds being rebuilt across 
our key territories. The investment at the plant 
in Silver Springs, Nevada, has been on-going 
and remains on track to begin production of 
our branded product, Smartlic
®
, in November 
2015. This plant expands our geographic reach 
in the USA by supplying low moisture feed 
blocks to the West Coast dairy and beef market.
There has been positive initial reaction to the 
launch in the summer of our innovative new 
product Piglyx
®
, which is an environmental 
enrichment product reducing stress levels in 
pigs, enabling the farmers to increase their 
returns. In the summer, Horslyx
®
 a product for 
the equine leisure market, was exported to the 
USA for the first time, and resultant revenues 
are expected in the current financial year. 
We have continued with our strategy of 
research and development to ensure we deliver 
sustainable growth. A research project into our 
unique feedblock, Megastart
®
, completed this 
year, has demonstrated significant benefits 
to livestock, which has led to a substantial 
increase in sales of Megastart
®
 during the year. 
Crystalyx
®
 has seen a decline in UK sales this 
year as a result of high quality forage harvested 
Profit before tax for the year increased by 8.8% 
to £10.4 million (2014: £9.6 million) on revenue 
down by 5.5% to £297.7 million (2014: £314.9 
million) due to falling commodity prices. Profit 
before tax for the year, including contributions from 
associate and joint ventures, increased by 5.5% to 
£12.7 million (2014: £12.1 million)
AGRICULTURE
8.8% UP FROM 2014 
£10.4m
PROFIT
£10.4m
£9.6m
£8.8m
2015
2014
2013 12
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW 
CONTINUED
local community. With organic growth and 
acquisitions, we now have 30 Country Stores in 
our network with a further 5 livestock market 
locations.
Our integrated oil distribution business has also 
surpassed expectations this year with increased 
sales of 4.4%, despite the benign weather and 
increased competition. This is due to investment 
in our fleet, increased presence across our 
regions, and our emphasis on customer service.
The acquisition of WM. Nicholls & Company 
(Crickhowell) Ltd in October 2014 together with 
the previous year’s acquisition of B E Williams 
Ltd further developed our strategy for our feed 
business in South Wales. 
We have combined these businesses into a 
central administration location in Brecon, whilst 
maintaining a presence in Sennybridge in the 
short term. The UK feed market is currently 
suffering from pricing pressure due to falling 
farm incomes, and the impact of increased 
manufacturing activity in our geographic 
markets has intensified competition. Despite 
this, our feed business performed well with total 
feed volumes up 4.1% year on year.
While we remain cognisant of the uncertainty 
facing the UK agriculture sector, we believe 
that our strong regional presence, technical 
expertise, and diverse product offering provides 
a solid platform to service our customers’ needs 
through the next financial year and beyond.
during 2014, and declining farm incomes. We 
continue our commitment to our international 
growth strategy with Crystalyx
®
, and have 
employed personnel in Brazil to develop this 
potential market. On-farm trials of Crystalyx
®
 are 
due to commence in Brazil by the end of 2015.
RETAIL
The strategy for growing our retail business 
delivered results exceeding expectations, 
with sales 8.6% higher year on year, a third 
consecutive record year. Like for like sales, 
excluding the impact of additional stores also 
increased by 5.3%. Our presence in strategic 
locations, coupled with the diverse retail 
offering, further strengthened our business. 
With a new Country Store at Rothbury, and 
redeveloped facilities in Appleby, Wigton, and 
Selkirk, we continue our commitment to, and 
investment in, servicing both the agricultural 
and rural communities. In addition to organic 
growth, in June 2015 we undertook the 
strategic acquisition of Reid and Robertson 
Ltd, an agricultural merchant business  
specialising in veterinary medicines, based 
at Balloch, Ayr, and Oban in Scotland. This 
expands our geographic reach in Scotland, 
and provides access to a new customer base 
for our existing product offering. Since the 
year-end we have acquired Green (Agriculture) 
Co., an agricultural merchant business based 
in Morpeth, near our existing machinery 
Country Store. This acquisition strengthens 
the Country Store network in Northumberland 
and enhances the services offered to the 
AminoMax
®
AminoMax
®
, the patented animal bypass 
protein product for dairy cows, manufactured 
at Watertown, New York State, USA, and 
Lancaster, UK recorded flat worldwide sales 
this year, predominantly as a result of the fall 
in farm incomes due to the declining farm-
gate milk price. The falling soya and canola 
commodity prices, and continuing pressures 
on farm incomes, are expected to have an 
adverse impact on AminoMax
®
 sales in the 
forthcoming year. However, we are continuing 
with research and development to extend this 
innovative product range.
Market Conditions
Farmer confidence has been adversely affected 
this year and it is anticipated this will continue 
in the medium term, as a direct result of the 
significant decline in the farm-gate milk price, 
both in the UK and internationally. Many of 
our farming customers are starting to modify 
their spending in reaction to the ongoing 
uncertainty in the UK agriculture market, and 
are postponing sizable capital investments 
until they have further market visibility. Once 
again, UK farmers benefited from a mild 
winter and benign spring, resulting in lower 
costs of production, which provided some 
respite from market conditions. We continue to 
support our farming customers in choosing the 
appropriate strategy to enable them to navigate 
a path through these difficult markets. 13
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
commercial benefits derived from increased 
customer confidence in our ability to produce 
quality flour, milled to the highest standards of 
product integrity.
The wheat harvest in summer 2014 was relatively 
normal at just over 16 million tonnes, however 
there were inconsistencies in quality. Our 
versatility with regard to wheat sourcing and mill 
processing meant that we were well positioned to 
respond to the changing market dynamics. The 
2015 harvest has been large and consistent in 
quality and the position of our three mills enables 
us to benefit from this exceptional harvest. 
We have enjoyed strong growth in the Food 
division this year with sales volumes 4.6% 
higher than last year. Through the year our 
reputation for customer service, quality and 
technical expertise has resulted in important 
new business wins. The growth in the division’s 
sales volumes follows last year’s step change 
in operating performance, which was driven by 
the commissioning of our state of the art mill 
at Kirkcaldy. We have continued our investment 
programme with the installation of cutting edge 
equipment at our other mills, which ensures we 
remain ahead of our customers’ ever-increasing 
demands, particularly in the need for food 
safety. The ongoing investment supports the 
Changes in the retail landscape and consumers’ 
shopping habits are impacting the whole food 
supply chain, including the bakery sector. 
In the current financial year, ending August 
2016, it is anticipated that these headwinds 
will persist. This challenging backdrop will in 
part be off-set by our investment in technology, 
high standards of customer service, and our 
on-going commitment to operational efficiencies 
throughout our three mills which, over the 
medium term, leaves us well placed to handle 
these changing markets. 
Profit before tax for the year increased 6.3% from 
£2.3 million to £2.4 million in this financial year 
on revenue down by 7.8% to £80.3 million (2014: 
£87.1 million) driven by falling commodity prices
FOOD
6.3% UP FROM 2014 
£2.4m
PROFIT
£2.4m
£2.3m
£0.6m
2015
2014
2013 14
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
2015
2014
2013
macro-economic pressure resulting from the 
funding and political issues faced in Russia 
and Japan, which is expected to continue 
through 2016. There are signs of increased 
activity in the UK nuclear market, with delivery 
of two power manipulators to Dounreay, 
Scotland expected by the end of 2015, and 
the successful completion of a remote handling 
project for Sellafield, with further orders through 
to 2017 being received after the year-end.
Bendalls, one of our two manufacturing 
businesses, is also benefiting from the increased 
activity in the UK nuclear market with multiple 
new framework agreements being awarded by 
Sellafield, operational through 2016-2019. We 
invested in the organic growth of the business 
through the creation of a new design department 
in 2015, which has been awarded its first 
contract from Sellafield for the design of a skip 
conveyor system. The BP Shah Deniz project, 
for the manufacture of 33 pressure vessels 
for the gas pipeline in Azerbaijan, has been 
successfully delivered in accordance with the 
agreed timeline, with one vessel to be delivered 
in spring 2016, as previously announced.
Chirton has had a difficult trading year due to 
the decline in the oil price and the impact of 
a complicated move to new factory premises 
in March 2015. The delay in moving to the 
new factory caused a greater level of disruption 
than expected, and issues commissioning new 
equipment resulted in extra costs and more 
lost production time than planned. This has 
adversely affected results in the short term. 
The low oil price has had a direct impact on 
Chirton’s oil exploration customers, and as a 
result management have taken the decision 
to accelerate Chirton’s entry into the nuclear 
2015 has been a year in which we have 
invested in the future growth of our 
Engineering division. Our Engineering business 
operates in high value markets and within 
two distinct areas, manufacturing and remote 
handling. During the year there has been 
increased collaboration throughout the division 
with joint bids being submitted and parts 
being manufactured internally for the remote 
handling businesses. 
Our remote handling businesses have met 
expectations in this difficult market, and 
performed well this year. In particular, Carrs 
MSM has had an excellent year, and this 
is expected to continue with Life of Plant 
contract and other significant contracts to the 
nuclear sector being delivered in the current 
financial year. 
Wälischmiller had a successful site acceptance 
test for the Demo 2000 Telbot
®
 project in 
Norway. This project removes the need for 
human inspection of oil and gas tanks and 
improving safety reducing the time needed to 
shut down the plant by up to 700 man hours 
per tank. In addition, operating within a UK 
led engineering consortium, Wälischmiller 
has also been awarded a contract for the 
design and supply of robotic remote handling 
equipment for ITER with potential sales due 
for delivery between 2017 and 2020. ITER is 
the international collaboration for the creation 
of an experimental fusion reactor based in 
France. 
Wälischmiller has also invested in state of 
the art machinery, development of a new 
showroom, and a marketing programme in 
the USA. This will help offset the continuing 
market. To facilitate this, it is working closely 
with our other Engineering businesses, taking 
advantage of the sector expertise, to ensure 
that cross selling opportunities are maximised. 
During the year, Chirton commenced selling 
engineered parts for our remote handling 
operations, and this is set to continue through 
the next financial year.
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
11 November 2015
Profit before tax for the year fell by 16.7% to 
£3.1 million (2014: £3.7 million) on revenue up by 
24.8% to £33.5 million (2014: £26.9 million)
ENGINEERING
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW 
CONTINUED
16.7% DOWN FROM 2014 
£3. 1m
PROFIT
£3.1m
£3.7m
£4.2m
