           Chairman’s statement 03 
 
Chairman’s statement 
 
I am pleased to report on continued strong progress at Bango, as 
demonstrated in its results for the financial year to March 2009. 
 
The company has grown sales by 28% while reducing operating 
ex penses – resulting in significantly reduced losses, and a break-
even second half period. The trends in sales growth, profitability and 
transaction volumes point to a positive outlook for Bango. 
 
Bango has built leadership in mobile web payment with its services . 
Bango is now enabling the largest US content providers, in 
particular, to generate increased growth and provide better 
customer experiences by migrating from legacy Premium SMS 
suppliers to Bango’s web based systems.  
 
Bango’s unique technology, mobile operator relationships and 
consumer profiles enable higher payment conversion rates for the 
world’s leading mobile content businesses. Sim p ly p u t, th ey m ake 
more sales. 
 
The Bango system that provides this simplicity to the user and the 
increased sales to the content prov iders is highly s ophis ticated. The 
technology has required many years of development and refinement 
– involving transactions from more then 30 million unique mobile 
users.  It is also closely integrated with the billing systems of major 
mobile network operators and credit card processors. 
 
Bango is serving a large and growing market.  The worldwide mobile 
content market will exceed $64 billion b y 2012, u p from $20 b illion 
in 2007, according to Juniper Research.  Major mobile phone 
makers, mobile operators and internet businesses are driving the 
uptake of the mobile internet.  
 
The growth in mobile content sales and the s witch to an internet 
model for payment and delivery gives Bango the opportunity to 
develop a defensible position of dominance in this important 
industry sector.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bango’s growth is driven both by businesses that are new to mobile 
content sales and by established mobile content sellers who are 
starting to transition their business from the older “Premium SMS” 
methods of content sales to the Bango platform.  Both can benefit 
from the increasing popularity of the mobile internet and the 
increased sales opportunities through Bango. 
 
The growth of revenue in the US market has been very pleasing. The 
management has positioned Bango well for further substantial 
growth by improving operational efficiency and driving down the cost 
per sale.    
 
I would like to thank the whole Bango team and shareholders for 
their continued commitment to maintaining Bango’s leadership and 
success in this marketplace as it continues to grow. 
 
 
Linds ay Bury 
Chairman
