 06 Castleton Technology plc Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s 
Review
Nearly a third of all 
the social housing 
associations in the UK are 
now Castleton customers. 
Ian Smith
Chief Executive  Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
07 Castleton Technology plc Annual Report 2015
Overview
I am pleased to report the progress the 
Group has made during the financial year 
to 31 March 2015. With four acquisitions 
made during the year and two further 
acquisitions post year-end, Castleton 
is on its way to being the pre-eminent 
supplier of software and IT services to 
the social housing sector as well as a 
leading niche player in the wider public 
and not-for-profit sectors; nearly a third 
of all the social housing associations in 
the UK are now Castleton customers. 
The scope to provide multiple service 
lines to our customers, combined with 
the opportunity for cost saving synergies 
between our businesses, gives me 
great confidence that Castleton will 
continue to deliver for its shareholders. 
The acquisitions of Brixx and Impact 
post year-end complete the initial steps 
in building our platform; our focus will 
now be on integrating our products 
and services.
Trading Results
The results for the year to 31 March 2015 
reflect a turning point for the Group. 
The year was one characterised by 
corporate activity; the Group made four 
acquisitions, two disposals, appointed 
a Chief Financial Officer and received 
the final payment for the disposal of 
the Redstone ICT business, Comunica 
Holdings Limited.
In September 2014, the Group disposed 
of the trade and certain assets of its 
subsidiary Maxima Information Group 
Limited. This disposal completed the 
Company’s restructuring and paved the 
way to building a “pure play” software 
and IT managed services group of scale, 
without the distractions of a diverse 
strategy. During the year the Group also 
disposed of the consultancy division of 
Montal to its management team, thereby 
enabling Montal to concentrate on its 
portfolio of specialist software solutions.
Castleton can now focus on its strategy 
of building a leading provider of 
software and IT managed services to 
the public and not-for-profit sectors. 
The acquisitions of Montal, Documotive, 
Keylogic and Opus during the year, and 
Impact and Brixx post year-end, reinforce 
this strategy.
The reported revenue for the year from 
continuing operations of £6.1 million and 
adjusted EBITDA * of a loss of £0.1 million 
only reflect a partial year’s trading 
of the companies acquired and the 
results for the following year will look 
markedly different. 
Outlook
Throughout the year we have kept our 
shareholders informed with the excellent 
progress of the initial acquisitions of 
Montal and Documotive and, although 
the acquisitions of Keylogic and Opus 
were very close to the year-end, we 
have also updated the market with 
their progress. We entered the current 
financial year confidently and indeed 
completed our initial acquisition phase 
with the acquisitions of Brixx and Impact 
on 1 June 2015. Almost immediately our 
existing customer base reacted very 
well to the addition of these companies 
and a number of potential deals were 
quickly identified.
The UK IT services market is a very 
interesting space at this time. It is very 
fragmented in nature, which presents the 
type of opportunities we, as the Board 
of Castleton, are looking for. In particular, 
we see the public and not-for-profit 
sectors as attractive markets due to their 
niche requirements and we believe a 
significant opportunity exists to capitalise 
on the ability to address historic under-
investment in IT infrastructure in those 
sectors. Castleton is well positioned to 
provide an eco-system of integrated 
modular solutions supported by 
scalable infrastructure platforms, helping 
organisations operate more effectively 
and achieve their goals, whilst bringing 
visible recurring annuity revenues to 
the Group. The Group brings together 
trusted brands with a pedigree of 
delivering solutions that meet customer 
needs whilst offering a refreshing 
change of culture and approach, 
focusing on customer collaboration using 
modern technology.
The next phase of the strategy will be 
to fully integrate the companies that we 
have acquired and this process is already 
well underway. We will also continue to 
look for strategic acquisitions that will 
add value and complement our existing 
services and products. My role in leading 
the Group is to ensure the successful 
integration of the current companies and 
identify and realise further opportunities. 
I hope to be in a position to share with 
you progress in this area over the 
coming months. The Board is fully aware 
that it needs to support the divisional 
management, providing the necessary 
tools and resource to deliver the value 
from this strategy. 
Ian Smith
Chief Executive
21 September 2015
* Earnings for the year from continuing operations before 
net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation, integration 
and strategic costs, goodwill impairment and share-based 
payment charges.
