 02 Castleton Technology plc Annual Report 2015
Chairman’s 
Statement
I expect that with 
the scale that the six 
acquisitions that have 
been made will bring, 
the Group will look very different when it 
reports its results for the next financial year.
David Payne
Non-Executive Chairman Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
03 Castleton Technology plc Annual Report 2015
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report the results of 
the Group for the year ended 31 March 
2015. It has been a year of significant 
change, which has seen the Group finish 
its restructure and embark on a new 
strategy to build a focused software and 
IT managed services business serving 
the public and not-for-profit sectors. 
The journey started in June 2014 with the 
acquisition of Montal Holdings Limited 
(“Montal”), a well-respected niche IT 
managed services business followed 
by Documotive Limited (“Documotive”), 
a specialist software provider to the 
social housing market, in October 2014, 
and then the acquisition of Keylogic 
Limited (“Keylogic”) and Opus Information 
T echnology Limited (“Opus”) in February 
2015. Keylogic is an infrastructure 
managed services provider with a focus 
on the social housing sector and Opus 
is a specialist software provider to the 
social housing sector. The Group is now 
on a clear path to achieving its goal 
to become a successful niche player 
in software and IT managed services 
within the public sector and not-for-profit 
market-place.
The Group also made two disposals 
during the year. The ABS business unit 
consisting of the trade and certain assets 
of the Maxima Information Group Limited 
(“MIG”) was sold to PDMS UK Limited for 
a total cash consideration of £0.8 million 
in September 2014. This was classified 
as an asset held for sale at the previous 
year-end. The Group also disposed 
of the consultancy division of Montal 
Computer Services Limited which was 
sold to its management in February 2015 
for a total consideration of £0.6 million. 
The division was not considered to be 
core to the business and the disposal 
will enable Montal to concentrate on its 
portfolio of managed services and avoids 
any potential conflicts of interest that 
might have occurred in consulting on 
potential services to be recommended 
to clients.
The year has seen significant 
reorganisation, which has involved 
a huge effort from many people; 
I would like to thank all those who have 
contributed, some of whom are no 
longer part of the Group. 
Reported Results
The Group income statement for the 
year shows turnover from continuing 
operations of £6.1 million, a loss 
before tax on continuing operations of 
£3.1 million and an adjusted EBITDA * of a 
loss of £0.1 million. With four acquisitions 
completed at various stages during 
the year, these represent nine months 
of trading from Montal, five months 
of trading from Documotive and one 
month of trading from both Keylogic 
and Opus and are not indicative of a 
full year’s result. In addition to this, two 
further acquisitions were completed 
post year-end, details of which can 
be found below. Exceptional items of 
£2.1 million include acquisition related 
costs and restructuring costs for the 
acquired entities. 
Whilst this year’s results do not contain 
much in the way of guidance to the 
future, I expect that with the scale that 
the six acquisitions that have been 
made will bring, the Group will look very 
different when it reports its results for the 
next financial year.
* Earnings for the year from continuing operations before 
net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation, integration 
and strategic costs, goodwill impairment and share-based 
payment charges. 04 Castleton Technology plc Annual Report 2015
Chairman’s 
Statement continued
we see enormous 
potential to 
become the go-
to supplier for 
software and IT 
services in the 
social housing 
market. 
Equity Raised in the Y ear
On 18 November 2014, the Group raised 
£5.65 million by way of an equity placing 
of 513,636,000 new ordinary shares at 
a price of 1.1 pence per ordinary share. 
These proceeds were used for the 
acquisition of Documotive and towards 
the acquisitions which followed.
Subsequent Events
On 1 June 2015, Castleton announced 
the acquisition of the entire issued 
share capital of Brixx Solutions Limited 
(“Brixx”) and Impact Applications 
Limited (“Impact”).
Brixx is a provider of software enabling 
users to produce financial models and 
long-term forecasts and was acquired 
for a total consideration of £5 million, in 
cash, of which £0.5 million is deferred 
for 12 months. Brixx has developed 
a specific solution, HousingBrixx, in 
order to meet the needs of the social 
housing sector and this solution is 
currently used by over 300 UK social 
housing organisations.
Impact is a provider of business 
critical repairs management software 
and scheduling tools to the social 
housing sector and was acquired for 
consideration of £5.0 million, of which 
£1.67 million was satisfied via the issue 
of new ordinary shares in Castleton 
at a price of 2.25 pence per share. 
The remaining £3.3 million was paid 
in cash on completion. 
These acquisitions further contribute 
towards Castleton’s desire to be the  
go-to supplier of leading edge 
software and IT solutions in the 
social housing sector. Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
05 Castleton Technology plc Annual Report 2015
On 30 June 2015, Castleton raised 
£2.2 million (before expenses) by way 
of an oversubscribed equity placing 
of 97 ,777 ,776 new ordinary shares, at 
2.25 pence per share, to help fund the 
acquisitions of Brixx and Impact and 
to strengthen the Company’s balance 
sheet. At the same time the outstanding 
£1.5 million loan facility with MXC Capital 
Limited (“MXC Capital”) was converted 
into new ordinary shares at 2 pence per 
share and £1 million of loan notes issued 
to the vendors of Documotive at the time 
of the Documotive acquisition were also 
converted into new ordinary shares at 
1.1 pence per share.
The Board
The changes at Board level during the 
year included the appointment of Phil 
Kelly as Senior non-executive Director, 
replacing Richard Ramsay, and the 
appointment of Haywood Chapman as 
Chief Financial Officer replacing Spencer 
Dredge. T ony Weaver also stepped down 
from the Board as non-executive Director 
on 31 December 2014. I would like to 
thank T ony, Richard and Spencer for their 
contribution to the Group. 
Phil brings a thirty year track record of 
leading successful companies within 
the technology sector, having worked 
with both quoted and private equity 
backed businesses. Phil sits on both the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
Haywood is a Chartered Accountant 
and has significant technology expertise 
having held senior financial positions in 
FTSE 250 and Fortune 300 companies.
On 9 April 2015, Davinder Sanghera was 
appointed as Chief Operating Officer. 
Davinder was previously Sales Director 
of Documotive, and has significant 
experience in the social housing sector.
Opportunity/Outlook
With the quality software and IT services 
assets that have been acquired, we see 
enormous potential to become the go-to 
supplier for software and IT services in 
the social housing market. The Board 
is now fully focused on integrating the 
companies that have been acquired to 
become a seamless provider aiming 
to add value to our customer base. 
Our aspiration is to become the leading 
niche software and IT managed services 
provider in the public and not-for-profit 
sectors. MXC Capital is a cornerstone 
investor in the Group, with a proven 
track record of executing very similar 
strategies with other listed businesses, 
with great results. I believe we have the 
team, assets and experience in place 
to deliver value to our shareholders. 
The new financial year is progressing 
well with the Group trading in line with 
market expectations. The Board is 
optimistic for the Group’s prospects.
David Payne
Chairman
21 September 2015
