 12 13
PERFORMANCE REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT
RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH
The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of risk management and internal 
controls and these are regularly monitored by the Audit 
Committee.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in this 
financial year can be found in the Audit Committee Report 
on page 50.
The Executive Committee is responsible for identifying, 
managing and monitoring material risks in each area of 
the business and is responsible for regularly reviewing and 
updating the risk register as well as reporting to the Audit 
Committee in relation to risks, mitigations and controls.  
As the Group operates principally from one office and with 
relatively short management reporting lines, members 
of the Executive Committee are closely involved in day-
to-day matters and able to identify areas of increasing 
risk quickly and respond accordingly.  Each risk identified 
is assigned to a member of the Executive Committee or 
senior management.  The Audit Committee considers risk 
management and controls regularly and the Board formally 
considers risks to the Group’s strategy and plans as well 
as the risk management process as part of its strategic 
review.
The risk register is the core element of the Group’s risk 
management process. The register is maintained by 
the Company Secretary with input from the Executive 
Committee which initially identifies the material risks 
facing the Group and then collectively assesses the severity 
of each risk (by ranking both the likelihood of occurrence of 
the risk and its potential impact on the business) and the 
mitigating controls in place in respect of the risk. 
As part of its risk management processes, the Board 
considers both strategic and operational risks and its 
risk appetite in terms of the tolerance level it is willing to 
accept in relation to each principal risk.  This approach 
recognises that risk cannot always be eliminated at an 
acceptable cost and that there are some risks which the 
Board will, after due and careful consideration, choose 
to accept.  The Group’s risk register, its method of 
preparation and the operation of the key controls in the 
Group’s system of internal control are regularly reviewed 
and overseen by the Audit Committee with reference to 
the Group’s strategic aims and its operating environment.  
The register is also reviewed and considered by the Board.
In response to the 2014 revision to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Group has reviewed its procedures 
to ensure that the necessary monitoring of risks and 
controls were carried out throughout the reporting period 
and going forward.
The Group’s risk register currently includes operational 
and strategic risks.  The principal risks faced by the 
Group in 2015, taken from the register, together with the 
potential effects and mitigating factors, are set out below.
PRINCIPAL RISKS
The Directors confirm that they have undertaken a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
Trends in print advertising and direct sales of print 
products mean that revenues from these sources 
continue to shrink and are not replaced like-for-like 
with online or digital products. The non-print media 
sector has high levels of competition from a wider 
group and low barriers to entry. This leads to different 
pressures on audience and customer retention as well 
as pricing. 
The strategy of identifying the type of content our 
audiences want and how they want to consume the 
content means that we are not simply putting print 
products online to try to replace diminishing print 
revenues for traditional brands. In 2015, we launched 
3 new subscription products, 6 new annual events and 
one bi-annual event, and relaunched 9 magazines, 12 
websites and 2 annual events with the specific aim of 
meeting current and future demand from audience and 
advertisers. We support our product innovation, by hiring 
people with experiences and skills in new areas of the 
market where appropriate.  The role of our Executive 
Committee includes anticipating future changes in the 
market and ensuring that our business reacts accordingly.
Movement in risk: >The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
High levels of attrition amongst staff in some parts 
of the business and loss of key senior staff lead to 
recruitment and training costs, loss of productivity, 
potential loss of clients and potential inability to 
maintain content quality and deliver our specific plans. 
All employees of the Group have regular performance 
reviews at which personal and career development 
opportunities are discussed.  All employees have access 
to training, share schemes and other benefits and the 
Group benchmarks its approach against best practice 
within the sector.  The Group conducted its annual 
staff engagement and satisfaction survey in 2015 and 
the survey will be repeated in 2016 to ensure further 
progress in this area is made and measured.  Addressing 
levels of attrition is a KPI for managers’ performance 
targets in 2016 and the Group is prioritising the setting 
of appropriate remuneration across the Group to ensure 
we remain competitive within the market.  It is a focus of 
Portfolio Directors to ensure that client relationships and 
content quality are maintained as a team rather than by 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
The Group has set out the following core financial metrics 
to measure our performance going forward. 
KPI DESCRIPTION PERFORMANCE
4
Underlying revenue growth    Total revenues adjusted for 
the impact of acquisitions and 
disposals
     2 015: + 4% (2014: +3%)
Adjusted operating margin
    Adjusted operating profits as a 
percentage of revenues
   2015: 15% (2014:14%)
Adjusted diluted EPS
    Adjusted earnings attributable to 
each share, calculated on a fully 
diluted basis, as set out in more 
detail in note 8 to the Financial 
Statements
    2015: 5.3 pence (2014: 5.0 pence)
Cash conversion
    The percentage by which cash 
generated from operations covers 
adjusted operating profit, as set 
out in the financial review
    2015: 31% (2014: 123%)
Development of recurring  
revenue streams
    The percentage of total revenues 
derived from live events and paid-
for content
    Live events and paid-for content 
revenues accounted for 67% of 
total 2015 revenues (2014: 68%)
Return on investment on  
acquisitions and new product 
development
    The incremental cash flows 
generated from an investment 
relative to the total cash 
investment to acquire or develop 
the asset
    Return on investment on new 
product development in 2015 
exceeds internal benchmarks
The key performance indicators are within the Board’s 
expectations and the ongoing focus on these measures 
will support its successful strategy.  These indicators are 
discussed in more detail in the Chief Executive’s Review 
and in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
4 
Performance measures compare the reporting period to the calendar year ended 31 December 2014 (unaudited). 14 15
PERFORMANCE REPORT
major events and exhibitions venue providers and we 
continue to review and explore alternative options for 
venues to mitigate this risk.  We have also reviewed and 
revised our disaster recovery plan to ensure that, in the 
event of the unavailability of any venue or part of a venue, 
our reaction is quick and well-planned.  In addition our 
Group policy is to contract with suppliers and customers 
under our standard terms where possible, which seek to 
protect us from costs and loss of revenue in the event of 
force majeure or cancellation of events.
Movement in risk:  The Board considers this risk 
to have increased since last year due to increased 
competition for venues caused by a higher number of 
events taking place in the market, meaning that this risk 
has been included as a principal risk facing the Group for 
the first time.
The Group’s products could be vulnerable to replication 
by competitors in the UK or other markets including, 
potentially, those offering content under a different 
revenue model that reduces or eliminates costs for 
users. 
The Group has continued to invest in its expert hub, 
entirely focused on digital product development.  The 
team is led by experienced digital product experts and 
adequately resourced in terms of product expertise and 
personnel.  The product pipeline is planned up to 12 
months ahead, and progress against this schedule is 
reviewed (fortnightly) to take into account changes in 
customer requirements and business priorities as well 
as activities of our competitors.  In addition we have 
invested in our registered intellectual property and we 
seek to enforce our legal rights to protect our brands and 
intellectual property where necessary.
Movement in risk: >The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period. 
Changes to regulations and legal requirements, 
including in relation to areas such as data protection 
and direct marketing, restrict or burden the  
Group’s activities. 
Legal and regulatory matters are dealt with by our 
legally-qualified Company Secretary supported by our 
panel of respected law firms.  Our Company Secretary, 
supported by internal experts in employment and health 
and safety matters, is tasked with updating and advising 
the Board on changes to law and regulation that may 
affect the Group’s interests and require alterations to our 
business practices.
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
Key to movement in risk from last year
  Increase in risk
>   Risk unchanged
  Decrease in risk
VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have 
assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year 
period to December 2018, taking account of the Group’s 
current position, the Group’s strategy, the Board’s risk 
appetite and, as documented above, the principal risks 
facing the Group and how these are managed.  Based 
on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the period to December 2018.
The Board has determined that the three year period 
to December 2018 is an appropriate period over which 
to provide its viability statement.  In making their 
assessment, the Directors have taken account of the 
Group’s existing financing arrangements to 2019, cash 
flows, dividend cover and other key financial ratios 
over the period. These metrics are subject to stress 
testing which involves sensitising a number of the main 
assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually 
and in unison.  The assumptions sensitised include 
forecasted adjusted operating profit, cash conversion and 
capital expenditure.  Where appropriate, this analysis is 
carried out to evaluate the potential impact of the Group’s 
principal risks actually occurring. 
GOING CONCERN BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
In accordance with provision C.1.3 of the 2014 revision 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), 
the Directors’ statement as to whether they consider 
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the financial statements and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s 
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 
twelve months from the date of approval of the financial 
statements can be found on page 43. 
an individual, where possible.  In addition, most senior 
employees enter into restrictive covenants upon starting 
employment with the Group. 
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
Serious systems failure or breach of network security 
controls (as a result of a deliberate cyber-attack or 
unintentional event) results in misappropriation of 
financial assets, proprietary or sensitive information 
or operational disruption, such as unavailability of 
our websites and of our digital products to users or 
unavailability of support platforms, thereby directly 
affecting our revenues or collection activities and 
damaging our reputation with customers and audiences. 
The Group has invested significantly in its IT systems and 
several key IT system upgrades were completed during 
2015, including the implementation of new CRM and 
finance systems.  Progress and performance is closely 
monitored by the Board and further IT system upgrades 
will take place during 2016.  We engaged a new IT 
Director in 2015 and continue to invest in other new roles 
in these areas.  Where possible, implementation of IT 
system upgrades is supported by internal teams to reduce 
the risk of relying on third parties and, where services are 
outsourced to suppliers, contingency planning is carried 
out to mitigate risk of supplier failure.  During 2015, 
websites which were hosted on a legacy platform were 
migrated onto a new and more secure platform which 
is cloud hosted.  Migration of our websites has reduced 
our vulnerability to a serious breach of network security 
controls but we consider the external environment a 
key factor in this risk so the Board has not reduced our 
assessment of likelihood. 
Movement in risk: >The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
Fraudulent or accidental breach of our security,  or 
ineffective operation of IT and data management 
systems leads to loss, theft or misuse of confidential 
information or personal data or breach of data 
protection requirements resulting in increased 
regulatory supervision, damage to our reputation and / 
or direct financial impact. 
The central Group IT support function monitors and 
assists our IT systems, including data management.  
Appropriate IT security is undertaken for all key processes 
to keep the IT environment safe.  Websites are hosted by 
specialist third-party providers who provide warranties 
relating to security standards.  All of our websites have 
been migrated onto a new and more secure platform 
which is cloud hosted and databases have been cleansed 
and upgraded during 2015.  External access to data is 
protected and staff are instructed to minimise access 
to internal data and the sending of data lists, which are 
password protected or encrypted where appropriate.  In 
2015, the Group appointed a Data Director whose remit 
includes building on the existing controls around the 
use and processing of sensitive data.  The Group has 
a disaster recovery plan which includes its IT systems 
and there is regular back-up of data, stored off-site.  All 
privacy policies and website terms of use for the Group’s 
websites were updated and standardised during 2015. 
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period. 
The Group runs events that gather large numbers 
of people in single venues and locations, often in 
large cities in the UK and elsewhere.  This results in 
operational health and safety risks including fire safety, 
food hygiene, crowd control, security and failure of 
equipment.  As the Group operates events in locations 
hired from third parties including hotels as well as 
venue operators it is generally not in control of safety 
policies for the locations and depends upon the third 
party venue operator to have adequate safety policies, 
processes and equipment in place and to comply with 
health and safety regulations.  If a serious physical 
incident occurred at an event, physical injury, death and 
other significant damage could occur . 
Events are the responsibility of a specific team within the 
Group which has experience and training in health and 
safety risks and responses.  The Group’s own employees 
are always in attendance at all our events and, at our 
major events, we engage third party floor managers with 
specialist health and safety expertise.  Our Events teams 
risk assess every event venue in conjunction with the 
venue operator and key contractors.  Wherever possible 
we ensure that contracts provide for liability to remain with 
venue operators who are best placed to manage the risks 
and we maintain insurance to cover our public liability. 
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period. 
For the Group’s larger events and exhibitions, there are 
only a small number of venues available for hire in the 
market from third parties such as hotels.  If a venue 
or part of a venue becomes unavailable for reasons 
which could include a force majeure event (such as a 
flood or security lock-down due to a terrorist attack), 
it is unlikely that the Group would be able to transfer 
an event to a different venue at short notice, resulting 
in damage to our reputation and direct financial impact 
from revenues we would be unable to collect, costs 
already incurred, refunds due to customers or legal 
claims from customers and suppliers. 
Given the lack of venues available for hire and the demand 
for those venues from our competitors in the market, 
it is impossible to have a plan in place to deal with all 
potential situations which could cause unavailability of a 
venue or part of a venue.  Where possible, however, we 
are now securing longer-term (3 year) contracts with  16 17
PERFORMANCE REPORT
Year ended 31 December 2015
Revenues for the reporting period were £70.5m.  Adjusted operating profits for the 
reporting period were £10.5m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 15%.  In the 
previous statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014, 
reported revenues were £105.6m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same period were 
£11.7m with an adjusted operating profit margin of 11.1%. 
Reflecting a more moderate growth outlook across portfolios reported within the 
Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, and specifically reflecting weaker 
print and advertising trends, the Group has recognised a non-cash impairment of 
£11.9m against goodwill in the Professional segment (2014: £nil). 
Live events and paid-for content revenues contributed £47.1m (67%) to revenues in the 
reporting period compared to £70.5m (68%) in the previous statutory reporting period 
for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014. Advertising revenues accounted for 
32% of revenues in the reporting period, consistent with the contribution reported in the 
previous statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014. 
Additional Information (year ended 31 December 2014 unaudited)
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 
£72.8m and £10.2m respectively. While our reported revenues for the year ended 31 
December 2015 are 3% lower than reported in the year ended 31 December 2014, 
underlying revenue growth, when adjusted for the disposal of Perfect Information, Aidex 
and event rationalisation was 4%.
Across the Group’s core revenue categories, paid-for content revenues (£19.9m, 28% 
of total revenues) continued to grow well and advertising revenues (£22.5m, 32% of 
total revenues) were stable following a 9% underlying revenue decline reported in 
2014. Digital advertising revenues, which account for 58% of total advertising revenues, 
grew by 16%. Live events revenues (£27.2m, 39% of total revenues) grew modestly 
on an underlying basis, with good growth across the exhibitions portfolio being offset 
by revenue declines across training, awards and other smaller event formats. Other 
revenues primarily include rental income.
5
Underlying growth rates exclude the impact of the disposal of Perfect Information (H1 2014 revenue contribution of £2.6m), Aidex (H2 2014 
revenue contribution of £0.8m) and discontinued events (H1 2014 revenue contribution of £1.3m). Excluding the impact of discontinued events, 
underlying revenues grew by 2%.
6
Adjusted results exclude adjusting items as detailed in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
OPERATING REVIEW
This Annual Report covers the statutory reporting period which is the year to 31 
December 2015 (‘the reporting period’).  Due to the change in year end from 30 June to 
31 December during 2014, resulting in an 18-month reporting period for 2014, we have 
considered it beneficial to include additional information in respect of the calendar year 
ended 31 December 2014 (which is unaudited) to enhance comparison with the 2015 
reporting period.  References to underlying or reported growth refer to comparative 12 
month periods throughout.  
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2015, the 
previous statutory period for the 18 month period from 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2014, 
and the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out below. 
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
5
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Revenue 70.5 105.6 72.8 -3% 4%
Adjusted operating profit
 6
 10.5 11.7 10.2 3%  
Adjusted operating margin
6
 14.9% 11.1% 14.0%    
Also summarised on the same basis as above are the trends across the Group’s three 
core revenue categories: paid-for content, live events and advertising.
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Paid-for content 19.9 31.2 20.6 -3% 11%
Live events 27.2 39.3 28.9 -6% 1%
Advertising 22.5 33.7 22.4 0% 0%
Other 0.9 1.4 0.9 0% 0%
Total revenues 70.5 105.6 72.8 -3% 4%
