 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
6
CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
POSITIONING OURSELVES 
FOR THE FUTURE
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS
Key achievements
Over nine years ago, in December 2006, I was appointed the 
Chairman of Central Asia Metals Limited, a small privately owned 
resource company with six projects in various stages of 
development across Mongolia and Kazakhstan. The Company 
has come a long way since then through to the Initial Public 
Offering (“IPO") and listing on the AIM market (“AIM") of the LSE 
in 2010 and the subsequent commencement of copper cathode 
production at Kounrad in 2012.
During 2015, the Company reached a notable milestone and 
returned over 100% of the funds raised at IPO to shareholders 
with the announcement of the 2015 interim dividend. In addition, 
we reported record copper cathode production and completed 
the Stage 1 Expansion at Kounrad during the period. Delivery of 
the Stage 2 Expansion is a primary objective for 2016 and further 
to our Chilean investment in Copper Bay, we are also looking at 
expanding the business where we see an opportunity to create 
value for our shareholders. Further details on the key 
achievements during the year are set out in the Chief Executive 
Officer’s Statement on pages 8 and 9. 
We have now established ourselves as one of the top performers 
on AIM with a profitable copper project at Kounrad, strong 
balance sheet and a robust dividend policy. I am extremely 
proud of our achievements since I became Chairman and want 
to thank all of our people and the management team in 
particular for their hard work.
Board changes
After nine years, I feel it is appropriate for me to step down from 
the role of Chairman. In order to provide continuity, I will remain 
as a Non-Executive Director in the role of Deputy Chairman.
Not only am I delighted to be staying with the Company and on 
the Board, but I am also pleased to advise you that Nick Clarke, 
our current Chief Executive Officer, will be assuming the role of 
Executive Chairman. This appointment will provide further 
continuity given Nick’s close relationship with our shareholders 
and his key involvement in the Company’s IPO and subsequent 
successful transition through to profitable production.
Due to personal reasons, Howard Nicholson, our Technical 
Director, will be stepping down from the Board. Howard will 
remain with the Company and will be focussed on delivering 
the western expansion programme at Kounrad as well as 
ensuring the continued strong operational performance of 
the project. Howard’s exceptional technical expertise and 
leadership of the local team has been instrumental in the 
successful development of the Kounrad project. We are 
pleased that Howard will remain with the Company and we 
wish to express our gratitude for his continued dedication. 
As we look to grow the business, we will be appointing Gavin 
Ferrar, our existing Business Development Director, to the 
Board to oversee this aspect of the Company’s strategy.
During 2015, we further strengthened the CAML Board with 
the appointment of Roger Davey. Roger is an experienced 
mining engineer with over 45 years of experience in the 
industry and we are delighted to secure his services.
I trust that as shareholders you will support the above 
changes and recognise that they further strengthen the 
Board and management of the Company. 
All the above appointments and changes will take effect at 
conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM") on 8 June 2016. 
 
We remain focussed on the success of our operations for all 
of our stakeholders and we provide more details on 
corporate governance on pages 36 to 47. 
Nigel Hurst-Brown
Chairman Governance
7
CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Financial Statements
Nigel Hurst-Brown
Chairman
