 OVERVIEW
2015 provided a very challenging 
environment for Centrica. Commodity 
prices continued to fall during the year, 
creating major challenges for our E&P  
and nuclear power businesses. However, 
Centrica delivered a resilient financial 
performance against this backdrop, with 
increased adjusted operating cash flow and 
a 9% reduction in net debt in the year. In 
addition, the actions we have taken since 
the start of 2015 on the dividend, capital 
expenditure and costs mean the Group is 
robust in this much lower oil and gas price 
environment, and our current projections 
indicate we can more than balance sources 
and uses of cash flow out to 2018 at flat  
real commodity prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh  
UK power. 
In July, we announced the conclusions of 
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’s 
strength lies in being a customer-facing 
energy and services business. This is  
where we have distinctive positions and 
capabilities and where we can make the 
biggest difference and contribution going 
forward, for our customers, our employees 
and our shareholders. 
Our purpose – to provide energy and 
services to satisfy the changing needs  
of our customers – provides a clear future 
direction for the Group. Everything we  
do will be in support of this purpose, as  
we position Centrica to deliver returns  
and growth.
Chief Executive’s  
Statement
“ We have a clear strategy for delivering growth  
and returns built around the customer and I am 
encouraged by the progress we have made. ”
Iain Conn, Chief Executive
Key events  
in 2015...
January
British Gas and Bord Gáis 
Energy announce price cuts
British Gas announced a 5% 
reduction in Standard and  
Fix & Fall household gas tariffs 
benefiting 6.8 million customers. 
Bord Gáis Energy announced  
it would cut the unit rate of gas  
by 3.5% and the unit rate of 
electricity by 2.5%. 
February
Strategic review 
announced
Centrica announced a 
fundamental strategic review  
of the Group, largely driven  
by changing external factors 
and the Board’s decision  
to question whether we had  
the right strategy and mix of 
businesses to take advantage 
of future opportunities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
05 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chief Executive’s Statement continued
We remain confident we can deliver at least 
3–5% per annum operating cash flow 
growth at flat real commodity prices and  
are committed to delivering a progressive 
dividend in line with the sustainable 
operating cash flow growth of the Group.  
I am encouraged with the progress we  
have made since July, as we develop our 
customer-facing platforms for growth and 
we deliver on our major cost efficiency 
programme, which is now underpinned in 
our business plans. Implementation of the 
strategy is on track, I remain excited about 
this next phase and continue to believe that 
Centrica has all the components necessary 
to deliver a powerful investor proposition 
– one of returns and growth. 
2015 PERFORMANCE 
Safety and compliance remain our top 
priority. In safety, we experienced a slight 
degradation in personal safety performance. 
We also experienced one Tier 1 process 
safety incident during the year and we are 
focused on improving our performance in 
this area. In regulatory compliance, we  
have had constructive interactions with our 
principal regulators and have continued  
to contribute to the CMA investigation into 
the functioning of the UK energy market.
Overall operational performance was solid 
during the year. Customer service levels 
improved in the UK, with residential 
complaints down 18% and a higher NPS.  
In UK residential energy supply, the number  
of accounts was down by less than 1% in  
a highly competitive market, while we were 
the only major UK energy supplier to reduce 
residential gas tariffs twice in 2015, by a 
total of 10%. In North America, extreme 
cold weather in the first half of the year was 
handled well, while we delivered increased 
margins and growth in margin under 
contract in Direct Energy Business. E&P 
production and nuclear generation volumes 
were strong. However, as previously 
reported we did face issues following the 
migration of customer accounts and 
associated data onto a new billing and 
customer relationship management system 
from multiple legacy systems in British Gas 
Business. This resulted in temporary 
increases in operating costs to help resolve 
the issues and an increase in debt 
balances, while the number of customer 
accounts reduced over the year. Reflecting 
these factors, our UK business energy 
supply and services division reported  
an operating loss in 2015.
Given the above, and the low commodity 
price environment, Group adjusted 
operating profit fell by 12% compared to 
2014, to £1,459 million, although profit from 
our customer-facing energy and services 
businesses was up 19%. The Group tax 
rate of 26% was lower than in 2014, 
reflecting a reduced proportion of profit 
from the heavily-taxed E&P business. As a 
result, Group adjusted earnings only fell by 
4% compared to last year, to £863 million, 
and adjusted earnings per share of 17.2p. 
These figures now include fair value 
depreciation related to our investments in 
Venture and Nuclear, a change in definition 
we announced in our December 2015 
Trading Update. The 2015 final proposed 
dividend per share of 8.43p is in line with 
last year, taking the 2015 full year dividend 
to 12.0p. 
We also incurred pre-tax impairments and 
onerous provisions on E&P and power 
generation assets of £2,358 million, 
resulting in total post-tax exceptional items 
of £1,846 million. These impairments reset 
the Group’s balance sheet to reflect the 
current commodity price environment. 
CASH FLOW RESILIENCE 
We made good progress during the  
year in our actions to improve cash flows 
and strengthen the Group’s financial 
position. Adjusted operating cash flow  
of £2,253 million was up 2% compared  
to 2014, with increased cash flow from our 
customer-facing businesses offsetting the 
impact of lower wholesale prices on E&P. 
We took action to reduce capital expenditure 
to just over £1 billion, including two small 
acquisitions. Combined with our decision to 
re-base the dividend in February 2015, the 
introduction of a scrip dividend alternative, 
and some divestment proceeds, net debt 
fell by 9% or £449 million to £4.7 billion. 
Reflecting our focus on costs and capital 
discipline, our E&P business was free cash 
flow positive in 2015. 
The steep falls in wholesale commodity 
prices will continue to have a material 
impact on the operating cash flows from  
our E&P and central power generation 
businesses in 2016 and beyond, if  
current levels persist. However, our 
customer-facing businesses are delivering 
resilient cash flows and benefits from our 
cost efficiency programme are starting  
to be realised. If current low wholesale 
prices continue beyond 2016, we have  
the flexibility to reduce our E&P capital 
expenditure further to the bottom end  
of our £400 million– £600 million range.  
As a result, we currently project that our 
sources and uses of cash flow will remain 
more than balanced over the period 
2016–2018, even if flat real wholesale oil, 
gas and power prices remain at low levels 
of $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP  
gas and £35/MWh UK power. 
March
Direct Energy in  
ground breaking  
loyalty programme
Direct Energy became a 
participating member of Plenti, 
the first of its kind US-based 
coalition loyalty programme. The 
programme offers customers the 
opportunity to earn promotional 
points for signing up for qualifying 
energy plans enhancing Direct 
Energy’s customer proposition.
April
Dedicated to serving 
customers
British Gas dedicated an 
additional £50 million investment 
over three years, demonstrating 
its commitment to customer 
service excellence.
May
Centrica extends gas 
supply contracts
Centrica extended contracts with 
Statoil and Gazprom Marketing 
and Trading. The separate deals 
will meet the gas needs of nine 
million British homes every year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
06 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT We remain confident in delivering at least 
3-5% per annum operating cash flow 
growth at flat real prices from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for current prices. 
Combined with more than balanced 
sources and uses of cash flow in this 
environment, our focus remains to deliver  
a progressive dividend in line with operating 
cash flow growth.
PROVIDING ENERGY AND SERVICES TO 
SATISFY THE CHANGING NEEDS OF 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Our customer-facing businesses are a 
source of competitive advantage given our 
distinctive positions and capabilities, and 
these businesses will be our focus areas for 
growth. As we set out in July, we expect to 
invest an additional £1.5 billion of operating 
and capital resources into these growth 
areas – Energy Supply & Services, 
Connected Home, DE&P and EM&T – over 
the next five years. Implementation of our 
strategy is on track and we have made some 
material early progress in all of these areas.
In Energy Supply & Services:
• We are focused on competitive pricing for 
all our customers and have made three UK 
residential gas price reductions since the 
start of 2015, saving British Gas customers 
almost £100 per year on average. 
• We continue to develop our bundled 
energy and services propositions for 
residential customers in North America, 
with 46% of energy customer acquisitions 
in 2015 also taking a services protection 
plan or smart thermostat, up from 11%  
in 2014.
• We increased our number of energy 
accounts in the Republic of Ireland, the 
first growth in accounts for a number of 
years, as we focus on increasing our 
market share.
• We launched our new simpler ‘Homecare’ 
services product range in the UK and 
have plans to launch propositions which 
appeal to new customer segments, 
including on-demand and landlords,  
in 2016.
• We have now installed more than two 
million residential smart meters in the  
UK and expect to install over one million  
in 2016, allowing us to provide more 
customers with accurate bills and 
improving customer engagement.
In Connected Home:
• We have established a new international 
business unit, bringing together existing 
expertise in the UK and North America, 
including capabilities gained through the 
AlertMe acquisition in March 2015.
• We have now sold over 300,000 smart 
thermostats in the UK, having launched 
the next generation of our Hive Active 
Heating
TM
 product in the second half of 
the year, and have sold nearly 200,000 
smart thermostats in North America. We 
continue to develop plans to launch Hive 
products outside of the UK and Republic 
of Ireland in 2016.
• In early 2016 we launched a range of  
new connected home products in the  
UK, including the Hive Active Plug,  
Hive Window or Door Sensor and Hive 
Motion Sensor.
In Distributed Energy & Power:
• We have established a new international 
business unit and are looking to increase 
the number of customer relationships  
we have for distributed energy activity  
in the UK and North America from over 
1,000 currently.
• We completed the acquisition of 
Panoramic Power, a leading provider  
of device-level energy management 
solutions, providing our DE&P business 
with leading capabilities in energy 
management technology and data 
science expertise, and enabling us to 
enhance our offerings to Commercial & 
Industrial (C&I) customers.
In Energy Marketing & Trading:
• We continue to build our capability and 
completed a number of ‘free on board’ 
(FOB) liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargoes 
in 2015 and have secured further cargoes 
which are scheduled for delivery in 2016.
• We expect to take delivery of the first 
cargo under our US export contract  
with Cheniere in late 2018 or early 2019, 
following a positive final investment 
decision on the fifth train of their Sabine 
Pass LNG facility in Louisiana in June.
REFOCUSING OUR E&P AND POWER 
BUSINESSES
As part of our strategic review, we also 
clarified the role of E&P in the portfolio –  
to provide diversity of cash flows and the 
balance sheet strength that goes with this. 
We are targeting a stable business that 
produces between 40–50mmboe of gas 
and oil per annum and requires between 
£400 million – £600 million of capital to  
fulfil this role. This compares to gas and  
oil production and capital expenditure  
levels respectively of 79mmboe and 
£728 million in 2015 and 80mmboe  
and £1,086 million in 2014. 
As a result of capital discipline and cost 
efficiency programmes, E&P was free cash 
flow positive in 2015 despite the current low 
wholesale price environment. In the near 
term, at current depressed wholesale prices 
July
British Gas cuts prices 
again
British Gas announced its second 
gas price reduction in six months 
bringing the average total savings 
in 2015 to £72 for British Gas 
customers. The price cut benefits 
6.9 million British Gas customers 
on Standard and Fix & Fall tariffs.
Conclusion of the 
strategic review 
The review identifies a clear 
direction for the business.  
Growth ambitions will focus  
on customer-facing activities. 
Sources of competitive advantage 
include strong market shares, 
good brands and deep energy 
services capability.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
07 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chief Executive’s Statement continued
we will only invest in new E&P developments 
if the Group’s cash flows can support the 
investment and the projects indicate good 
returns over a range of price environments. 
We currently expect to invest around 
£500 million in 2016, reflecting expenditure 
on existing in-flight projects such as Cygnus 
and Maria. However, in the absence of a 
recovery in oil and gas prices, we could 
potentially make further reductions to the 
levels of E&P capital expenditure.
We will also be pursuing further cost 
reductions. We now expect cash production 
costs to be 15%, or £150 million, lower in 
2016 when compared to 2014. This is 
£50 million lower than the levels previously 
announced. We will explore all options to 
strengthen our E&P business. 
Our E&P focus is on the UK, Netherlands 
and Norway, and as such we continue to 
review options to release capital from our 
Trinidad and Tobago assets, while we now 
consider our positions in Canada to be 
non-core. We continue to work with our 
Canadian partners, Qatar Petroleum, as  
we seek ways to maximise value from our 
existing position. 
In central power generation, we are in the 
process of rationalising our thermal power 
generation portfolio with a view to 
simplification and cost reduction, while 
retaining low-cost optionality. Our focus for 
growth is on peaking units and distributed 
generation. We continue to view our 
participation in nuclear power as a financial 
investment, while in wind power generation 
we announced in July that we intend to 
dispose of our interests in assets, while 
continuing to participate to a limited degree 
through power purchase agreements (PPA). 
In February 2016, we announced we were 
disposing of our 50% interest in the Glens  
of Foudland, Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind 
farms, with our net share of proceeds 
expected to be approximately £115 million. 
This disposal forms part of our divestment 
programme, under which we expect to 
realise £0.5 billion – £1 billion of proceeds 
from the sale of E&P and wind assets by  
the end of 2017. 
COST EFFICIENCY
We announced as part of the strategic 
review conclusions that we are targeting 
£750 million per annum of like-for-like cost 
efficiencies from operating costs and 
controllable cost of goods, to be delivered 
over the next five years. We expect to 
achieve this from a 2015 controllable cost 
base of around £5 billion, before inflation, 
one-off investment to achieve the savings, 
the costs of installing smart meters and 
additional investment in growth areas. After 
inflation, we still expect like-for-like operating 
costs to reduce by around £300 million by 
2020, and after additional operating costs  
to deliver incremental gross margin in the 
growth areas of services, Connected Home, 
DE&P and EM&T, we would expect total 
nominal operating costs in 2020 to be  
no higher than their 2015 level. We also 
announced that the programme would 
result in a reduction in like-for-like 
headcount of around 6,000 roles by 2020, 
with around half expected to come from 
redundancy and half from natural attrition.
The £750 million programme is now 
underpinned in our business plans. We 
remain on track to achieve the savings  
and have already made a number of 
restructuring announcements across the 
Group, which will result in the reduction of 
around 2,000 roles. We expect to achieve  
a reduction in direct headcount of around 
3,000 by the end of 2016, excluding the 
impact of increased headcount in smart 
metering and in growth areas such as our 
Connected Home business. We have also 
made good progress in delivering savings 
from our third party cost base, with a 
number of initiatives ongoing. As a result, 
we expect to deliver £200 million of 
annualised savings in 2016 and we are on 
track to achieve two-thirds, or £500 million, 
of the savings by 2018. 
ORGANISING AROUND OUR 
CUSTOMERS
In January 2016, we announced 
fundamental changes to the way that 
Centrica will be organised, to support 
delivery of our strategy. Centrica has 
historically operated as a holding company 
for a number of different and largely 
self-contained businesses, each of which 
had its own organisation and way of doing 
things. This model made it harder for us  
to work together across businesses, share 
ideas and best practice, and meant we 
have not been taking advantage of 
Centrica’s scale as an international energy 
and services company.
We have therefore moved to establish a 
single group of international businesses and 
have created eleven business units.  
We have combined our energy and services 
activities around our residential and 
business customer segments and a 
common operating model, with the creation 
of UK Home, UK Business, North America 
Home, North America Business and Ireland 
business units. This will allow us to more 
effectively deliver products and services 
which respond to changing customer needs 
at a competitive price. The Home and 
Business units in both the UK and North 
America will be supported by common 
operating functions of Field Operations  
and Customer Operations, while our new 
Connected Home and DE&P business  
units will also leverage Home and Business 
respectively to sell their products. 
EM&T will continue to provide services to 
the other businesses, while E&P, Nuclear 
August
Smart meter landmark
British Gas announced that 
1.5 million smart meters have 
been installed in UK homes. 
Smart meters put an end to 
estimated bills, giving customers 
greater understanding and control 
of their energy consumption.
September
Bord Gáis Energy cuts 
prices again
Bord Gáis Energy announced its 
second price cut in 2015. Bord 
Gáis Energy customers unit rate 
of gas was cut by a further 2.5% 
and the unit rate of electricity by  
a further 2.0%.
October
New well at York field
Drilling began for a new well at 
the York field that will tap into an 
additional 20 billion cubic feet of 
gas, enough to heat half a million 
UK homes for a year. Gas from 
the field is processed at 
Easington by Centrica Storage. 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
08 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT and Centrica Storage will all be run as 
separate business units. All business units 
will be supported by nine Group functions, 
specifically Finance, Human Resources, 
Corporate Affairs, HSES (Health, Safety, 
Environment & Security), Information 
Services, Technology & Engineering,  
Group Marketing, Procurement and Legal, 
Regulatory & Compliance. These changes 
will allow Centrica to leverage its scale  
and operate in a more efficient, effective 
and joined-up way, allowing us to serve  
our customers more effectively and 
efficiently while contributing to underlying 
cash flow growth.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS  
AND NEW SEGMENTS
The execution of our strategy is now 
underpinned by comprehensive 
implementation plans across all businesses 
and functions. We have also now defined 
the key performance indicators (KPIs) 
against which we will measure success in 
delivering our strategy, both at a Group and 
business unit level. The KPIs for our energy 
and services businesses are consistent 
across geographies, in line with the 
establishment of a common operating 
model, while the KPIs for all business units 
are intended to provide an appropriate 
balance of growth and efficiency metrics. 
Details of these KPIs can be found at 
centrica.com/performance. We intend to 
report these KPIs in each half year and full 
year results announcement, starting at our 
Interim Results in July 2016. 
In addition, new reporting segments are  
in place, effective from 1 January 2016, 
aligned to the new strategy and the way  
we now run the business. These will also  
be reported against for the first time at our 
Interim Results in July 2016. Details of the 
new segments can be found on page 13. 
COMPETITION AND MARKETS 
AUTHORITY INVESTIGATION
The CMA investigation into the UK energy 
market is ongoing and the Provisional 
Decision on Remedies is now expected  
in March 2016, with the final report due  
in June 2016. This follows the publication  
of the CMA’s provisional findings and notice  
of possible remedies in July 2015. We have 
contributed constructively to the process 
and improved customer trust in the 
functioning of the energy market is 
something we would welcome. 
We have expressed concerns over some  
of the CMA’s provisional findings and 
proposals including the potential 
introduction of a transitional ‘safeguard 
regulated tariff’. We also expressed 
concerns regarding their analysis of 
profitability and returns. As part of our 
response to the CMA we suggested an 
alternative to the ‘safeguard regulated tariff’, 
the ending of evergreen tariffs. As long  
as this is implemented appropriately, we 
believe it will improve engagement by 
providing customers with a regular prompt 
to review their energy tariff, addressing the 
concerns the CMA may have around 
customer engagement without the need for 
a regulated tariff. We will continue to engage 
with the CMA as their process comes to  
a conclusion over the coming months.
2016 OUTLOOK AND SUMMARY
The lower commodity price environment  
will inevitably continue to have an impact  
on the earnings and operating cash flow 
from our E&P and central power generation 
businesses. However, with our focus on 
cash flow growth and delivery of our 
£750 million cost efficiency programme,  
we currently expect to deliver adjusted 
operating cash flow in excess of £2 billion  
in 2016.
In summary, Centrica has produced  
a resilient performance in 2015 and  
the actions we have taken leave us  
well positioned to handle the current 
environment, with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced at  
current wholesale commodity prices.  
With a strategy developed around the 
customer, we have a clear purpose and 
direction. Implementation of the strategy  
is on track and I am pleased with the 
progress we have made to date. I am 
confident in our ability to deliver our target 
of at least 3–5% growth in operating cash 
flow per annum at flat real commodity 
prices, underpinning a progressive  
dividend policy and delivering shareholder 
value through returns and growth. 
Iain Conn
Chief Executive
18 February 2016
November
Major investment at 
gas-fired South Humber 
Bank power station
Centrica confirmed a £63 million 
investment at South Humber 
Bank gas-fired power station, 
securing the future of the site  
up to 2027. The power station  
is capable of producing enough 
electricity to meet the needs  
of over one million UK homes.
December
Growth in Connected 
Home
Connected Home confirmed 
sales of over 250,000 smart 
thermostats in the UK to the end 
of 2015. Three million customers 
in the UK, North America and  
the Republic of Ireland also now 
have access to our analytics  
and insight products.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
09 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
