 Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015 2
Over the past 12 months we have witnessed the ongoing evolution of  
the energy sector, marking the grand transition towards distributed 
generation and the world market for distributed generation is predicted 
to approximately double in the next eight years
1
. Whilst the majority of 
this distributed generation currently comprises a variety of technologies 
– including renewables such as solar – fuel cells are increasingly becoming 
part of this energy mix as an enabling technology for renewables and 
allowing people to generate their own power cleanly and efficiently at the 
point of use. This shift away from the traditional business model of 
centralised power utilities is helping to bring fuel cells closer to 
commercialisation.
Driven by cost reduction through technology innovation, the stationary 
fuel cell market continues to grow with market revenues of US$40 billion 
forecast by 2022
2
. The fuel cell technologies that dominate this growth 
are commercially available in Asia and the US and run on widely available 
fuels such as Natural Gas, Biogas and LPG. As a result, these technologies 
are not held back by a lack of hydrogen infrastructure, as we have seen in 
automotive fuel cell applications. With infrastructure not a limiting factor 
for commercialisation and scale-up, widespread adoption of the Steel Cell 
technology is directly achievable as long as we continue to demonstrate 
we can hit the cost, lifetime and performance targets required by the 
world’s leading power system companies.
The Steel Cell technology is a relatively new and disruptive technology 
compared to the established fuel cell offerings, but one that is proving 
itself repeatedly against the most demanding performance targets set by 
market leaders in the power sector. We have met all customer testing 
requirements at sites in Japan and South Korea and our latest V3 
technology has been released to customers after extensive in-house 
validation beyond 10,000 hours of testing. We have also hit key technical 
milestones in our development roadmap showing considerable uplifts in 
efficiency and power density in early stage development. These 
achievements are key to ensuring we have the best overall economic 
offering for our customers and we intend to bring through some of these 
additional benefits in our V4 release next year.
 
Strategically, we have positioned Ceres as one of the few independent 
technology providers that is able to offer low cost solutions to a wide 
variety of players across different sectors and geographies for different 
product applications. This breadth and versatility enables the Company 
to benefit as the industry continues to consolidate and markets mature. 
We have the capability to support businesses operating at a range of 
different stages and speeds of development: whether they might be 
aspiring power system companies in need of reliable fuel cell technology 
The Steel Cell technology is a relatively new 
and disruptive technology... that is proving 
itself repeatedly against the most demanding 
performance targets set by market leaders in 
the power sector
Chairman’s statement
Alan Aubrey
Chairman  Strategic Report
3 Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015
to play catch-up with existing players; or the established companies 
themselves, struggling to realise the performance and cost targets 
needed for a truly mass-market offering and so seeking next generation 
technology to transform existing products.
The latest development in the stack and system technology has been 
brought together in the Steel Gen platform, a 1kW class power only 
prototype comparable to the Japanese Ene-Farm products, which is 
compact, highly efficient and meets the most stringent of global emission 
standards. This will be released to customer programmes early next year. 
We are continuing to expand the reach and scope of our technology and 
are developing a multi-kW system to operate at electrical efficiencies 
above 50%, as we intend to extend our offering beyond residential to the 
light-commercial and power only applications in response to prospective 
customer enquiries.
In terms of developing the talent base at the Company essential to future 
growth, we have further strengthened the team with the appointment of 
James Falla as Chief Operating Officer and more recently Tony Cochrane 
as Chief Commercial Officer. James joined Ceres after 15 years 
establishing operations in Asia for leading Tier 1 automotive companies. 
Tony joins us from Ballard Power Systems, with over 17 years’ direct 
experience in the fuel cell sector, where he led the commercialisation of 
the stationary power business. We also welcomed Aidan Hughes as a 
Non-Executive Director who brings with him considerable experience of 
growing technology companies throughout his career and is a significant 
addition to the Board as Chair of the Audit Committee. The ability to 
attract colleagues of the quality and experience of Aidan, James and Tony 
shows the growing market appeal and reputation of Ceres in the industry 
under the leadership of Phil Caldwell as CEO. 
I have been working with Phil now for two years and we have a great 
team in place. We have invested in the core technology and are 
demonstrating significant technical progress, both internally and on 
customer sites worldwide. Initial evaluations at some of our customer 
sites have taken longer than planned which has impacted commercial 
progress and therefore we have not seen the anticipated revenue growth 
in the year. However, as long as we continue to hit our key technical 
milestones it is no longer a case of ‘if’ this technology will come to market 
but just a matter of ‘when’. As part of the exciting energy evolution rolling 
out across the globe we see Ceres now becoming established as one of 
the leading independent technology companies in this rapidly growing 
distributed generation sector.
Alan Aubrey
Chairman 
6 October 2015
1 Global Distributed Generation 
Deployment Forecast, 
Navigant Research, 2014
2 Fuel Cells Annual Report 
2014, Navigant Research 
