 8 9
PERFORMANCE REPORT
Current Trading and Outlook
We have made an encouraging start to 2016, and I am 
targeting revenue growth of at least 5% for the year.  The 
Marketing portfolio has started the year well, and in 
February the Business Travel Show, one of the Group’s 
larger events, reported revenues up 30%.
Cash collection continues to improve and we remain 
confident that cash conversion rates will return to 
normalised levels in 2016, with leverage (net debt/
adjusted EBITDA) tracking below one times by the end of 
the year.
The Board remains encouraged by the continuing shift in 
the Group’s revenues in favour of digital paid-for content 
and live events, which are both higher quality and higher 
margin.  This trend has been assisted by investment in 
infrastructure and people over the last two years.  We will 
undertake some further investment in the current year 
to substantially complete this process.  As a result, the 
adjusted operating margin in 2016 is expected to show 
only modest improvement over the 15% recorded in 2015.
However, we are aiming for an acceleration in our growth 
and margin in 2017 as the benefits of our investment in 
the business kick in.  We are maintaining our target for an 
adjusted operating margin of 20% for the business in the 
future.
Andria Vidler
Chief Executive Officer
16 March 2016
We have also invested in Centaur IQ as part of our 
determination to swing the focus of the business wholly 
onto our customers.  Centaur IQ adds a further cross 
portfolio capability.  It enables us to track and monitor 
our products and our customers’ satisfaction with them; 
we can now measure individual product performance, 
customer engagement, loyalty and overall satisfaction.  
Through a number of dashboards we are now much 
closer to our customers, developing products and 
services, in some cases partnering with them.  This work 
is ongoing and is fundamentally changing how we work.
More details of some of these portfolio successes are 
given in the Divisional Review below but it is worth noting 
that our investment and development of our market-
leading brands has been recognised by our industry peers 
and we have received the following awards this year: 
PPA Awards 2015:  
Columnist of the Year (Marketing Week)
PPA Digital Awards 2015:  
Content Sales Team of the Year (Profile Group)
PPA Connect Awards 2015:  
Exhibition of the Year (National Homebuilding  
& Renovating)
PPA Digital Awards 2015:  
Best Use of Technology for our WordPress development
In 2015 there was heavy lifting on the operational side 
as we made a number of significant improvements to 
our technology platforms.  Our businesses now operate 
on a single financial platform, simplifying support and 
reporting; more of our sales teams operate on a core 
CRM system, that will enable easier up-selling and cross 
selling across and within portfolios; and our publishing 
brands’ websites have all been upgraded to a common, 
fully responsive digital platform enabling greater 
audience engagement on mobile and desktop.  While 
the deployment of these technology initiatives resulted 
in some additional implementation effort across the 
business last year, we start 2016 confident that we have 
platforms in place that can better support our more agile 
and higher growth business.
Due to the change in year end from 30 June to 31 
December during 2014, resulting in an 18-month 
reporting period for 2014, we have considered it 
beneficial to include additional information in respect 
of the calendar year ended 31 December 2014 (which 
is unaudited) to enhance comparison with the 2015 
reporting period.  References to underlying or reported 
growth refer to comparative 12 month periods throughout.  
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 
£70.5m, with underlying revenue growth of 4%, driven 
principally by growth in paid-for content and live events.  
Adjusted operating profits for the same period were 
£10.5m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 15%.  
Net debt at 31 December was £17.9m, which reflects a 
disappointing cash conversion performance throughout 
2015.  With new finance and CRM platforms now 
deployed, we expect this trend to reverse in 2016, and we 
are confident that the Group’s business model will return 
to being highly cash-generative in the future. 
The journey of transformation away from Centaur’s siloed 
and format-based publishing legacy towards a business 
being driven by strong content and customer demand 
was never going to be quick or easy.  As a result, whilst 
the challenges of 2015 were demanding they were part of 
this evolution and I am satisfied with the overall progress 
we made in embedding a new operational infrastructure.  
Throughout this testing period we never lost sight of our 
long-term goals and strategic priorities and continued 
to invest in critical product development whilst also 
maintaining acute attention to cost.  I would like to thank 
everyone in the Group for working so hard to manage this 
parallel approach and I am delighted that we delivered 
a higher operating margin alongside significant product 
innovation.
In order to maximise Centaur’s potential the business 
needs a strong talented team at all levels.  Alongside the 
recruitment of new talent, personal development and 
training is therefore an increasingly important ingredient 
in our business evolution.  My aim is to create a culture 
that enables individuals to grow and empowers teams 
to collaborate successfully to deliver new projects.  
Combining the spirit and knowledge of the existing team 
with the addition of new skills will enable Centaur to 
continue its entrepreneurial spirit whilst adopting new 
skills and working practices. 
Many of our competitors remain platform centric, 
organised around events or print formats.  That is not 
our strategy.  We are committed to being market-led 
and providing the best solutions for our audiences and 
customers on their preferred platform or platforms.  We 
are totally focussed across all of our portfolios on what 
our customers want: what data do they need, who are they 
trying to reach, who do they want to meet.  This customer 
centric model differentiates Centaur and I believe it is the 
smart way for a truly multi-platform, customer focused 
media business to work.  
We are looking forward to being able to build on the solid 
progress made in 2015.  2016 will see the completion of 
the major part of our investment to re-focus Centaur and 
I believe that we are increasingly well placed to achieve 
higher levels of growth for our shareholders.
During the year we 
have invested in 
building our own  
in-house 
conference team. 
We can see good 
opportunity in this 
area across all 
of our portfolios 
and it is important 
to us to manage 
this opportunity 
ourselves.
