 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
14
CHIEF ExECuTIvE OFFICER’S REPORT
I am pleased to report that, during 
2015, Centamin has continued 
to prosper under adverse market 
conditions. The Company continues 
to achieve positive results through 
its core strategic focus on creating 
value for all stakeholders. Value in the 
mining industry is achieved through 
a continual drive for productivity and 
efficiency at operating mines, whilst 
undertaking a growth strategy that is 
focused on enhancing returns over the 
long term. 
In this context, Sukari delivered 
production in line with guidance and 
with AISC significantly below initial 
forecasts. At the same time, Centamin 
continues to invest in long‑term 
growth, with continued resource and 
reserve increases at Sukari and positive 
indications of multiple high‑grade 
prospects from within its West African 
exploration projects. This stands 
against an industry forced towards 
short‑term initiatives to preserve 
cash in response to the various 
external challenges.
Safety is a critical area of Centamin’s 
performance and our aim is to ensure 
that every person returns safe at 
the end of each shift. Continued 
development of the onsite health and 
safety culture at Sukari has resulted in a 
low l TIFR for 2015 of 0.12 per 200,000 
man‑hours. Against this positive result, 
however, a very unfortunate incident 
occurred within the open pit operation 
during the fourth quarter, when a 
contractor’s employee was involved in 
a rock collapse while relocating a grade 
control drill rig. The operator, and sole 
occupant of the drill rig, was fatally 
injured in the incident. The loss was 
deeply saddening and overshadowed 
the strong operational performance 
during the quarter. 
Earlier in 2015, and as previously 
reported, an unfortunate incident 
occurred in Burkina Faso on a public 
road near the Konkera village which 
resulted in one of our local employees 
being fatally wounded and another 
sustaining injuries. A thorough 
investigation into this bandit attack 
on two of our vehicles has been 
carried out. Further additional security 
measures have been implemented 
following the incident. There was no 
impact on operational activity as a 
result of the incident.
Centamin remains committed 
to further improving health and 
safety during 2016 towards our 
zero‑harm target.
Sukari’s performance during 2015 
continues to bode well for the 
potential of the operation to generate 
significant free cash flow over 
the coming years. Fourth quarter 
production of 117,644 ounces was 
within the operation’s target annualised 
rate of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces, 
driven by the continued ramp‑up of 
the expanded process plant to its 
throughput rate of 11 million tonnes 
per annum. The plant is now operating 
at 10% above nameplate capacity, 
which represents the achievement of 
our base case forecast rate.
The average metallurgical recovery 
was 88.8%, a 1.7% increase on 2014. 
Work is continuing to optimise the 
operational controls and improve 
circuit stability to ensure recoveries 
are maintained above 88% at the 
increased rate of throughput.
Centamin is entering a 
sustainable period of cash 
generation, which it will use to 
reward shareholders through 
dividends and ongoing growth.
andrew pardey Chief executive officer Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
15
New processing  
plant completed following  
Stage 4 expansion
2015 was another successive record for 
both open pit and underground mining 
rates and productivity in both of these 
areas remains strong. The open pit 
delivered total material movement 
of 57.8Mt, an increase of 28% on the 
prior year. This was related to improved 
fleet utilisation and productivity, 
together with incremental blasting 
rates following the increased daily 
usage of ammonium nitrate (“AN”) 
from October 2014. The open pit 
remains on a secure footing to deliver 
the scheduled material movements as 
required for the expanded operation. 
Open pit mined grades are expected 
to increase towards the reserve 
average from 2016, in line with the 
mine plan and our production forecasts 
as detailed in May 2015.
The underground mine produced a 
record 1.16Mt of ore, a 20% increase 
on 2014. The average mined head 
grade was 6.5g/t, in line with our 
forecast, and represents a successful 
reduction in grade volatility when 
compared with 2014, a period when 
the operation underwent a significant 
ramp‑up in productivity. The focus for 
the operation remains to consistently 
deliver ore at an average grade of at 
least 6g/t. 
There was a material year‑on‑year 
decrease in operating costs per tonne 
in both the mining and processing 
areas, principally driven by the 
decrease in the international fuel price. 
The trend towards lower unit costs is 
expected to continue in the coming 
quarters, as the expanded operation 
continues to be optimised and further 
efficiency gains are realised. 
In September 2015, an updated 
resource and reserve estimate for 
Sukari provided further support for 
our production forecasts and our 
expectation of a long life and low 
cost operation that will continue to 
generate significant cash flow even 
under the current weak gold price 
environment. Open pit reserves of 
8.3 million ounces increased from the 
previous estimate by approximately 
0.5 million ounces, net of mining 
depletion. This increase was due to 
lower mining and processing costs 
associated with the recent reduction in 
international fuel prices and continued 
underground resource expansion from 
drilling. The estimate was based on 
assumptions conservatively above 
current operating costs. 
Reserves were based on a 
US$1,300 per ounce gold price, 
consistent with previous estimates and 
allowing for comparisons exclusive of 
short‑term volatility in the gold market 
over the expected 19‑year‑plus life of 
the operation.
Continued growth of the underground 
resource and reserve demonstrates the 
potential for further material increases 
over the coming years. The ongoing 
drilling programme continues to return 
high grade assay results and we expect 
this to continue as the development 
and drilling extends along the strike 
and at depth.
Our exploration programmes in West 
Africa continue to build momentum. 
In Burkina Faso, at the Wadaradoo, 
Napelapera and Torkera prospects, 
drilling has indicated the presence 
of structurally controlled high‑grade 
mineralised zones in addition to 
extensive lower‑grade mineralisation. 
In Côte d’Ivoire, first‑pass drilling 
over targets defined by geochemical 
and geophysical surveys has outlined 
mineralised zones over a number 
of prospects. We continue to test 
the potential for lateral and depth 
extensions at these more advanced 
prospects, whilst also progressing the 
numerous other prospects within our 
significant land packages. Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
16
CHIEF ExECuTIvE OFFICER’S REPORT continued
The greenhouse gas emissions 
reporting required by Schedule 7 
of the large and Medium‑Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 as 
amended by the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013 only applies to UK 
incorporated quoted companies. 
Centamin has, however, provided 
information relating to this legislation 
in the CSR report as part of its 
commitment to environmental issues. 
Maintaining good community relations 
is a core part of our operational 
strategy and corporate governance 
standards. As the first mining company 
in Egypt in modern times, we strive to 
set an example of a socially responsible 
industry through adopting a good 
neighbour policy. We take every action 
to ensure Sukari has the minimum 
impact on the social environment, as 
well as to deliver positive benefits to 
Egypt and the community as a result of 
our investment, and further details of 
our various initiatives can be found in 
the CSR report.
Our work force is remunerated well 
above the average for Egypt and our 
career development programmes 
are highly valued. In general we 
enjoy a very positive and constructive 
relationship with our employees.
outlook
Our longer‑term production and cost 
forecasts remain unchanged and there 
remains scope for significant additional 
production increases as productivity 
in the various areas of the expanded 
Sukari operation is further optimised.
Safety remains a priority and our 
target is a lost time injury rate of zero 
during 2016.
Guidance for 2016 is for 470,000 
ounces at US$680/ounce cash 
operating cost and US$900/ounce 
all‑in sustaining cost. Whilst this 
guidance implies further material 
production growth at Sukari, the 
key focus for the operation during 
the year is on realising the potential 
for additional productivity and cost 
efficiencies. 
The productivity levels achieved during 
2013 in the pre‑expansion process 
plant, together with the various design 
improvements implemented during 
the Stage 4 project, provide us with 
confidence that the expanded plant 
will achieve, in time, production levels 
materially above current levels. At the 
underground mine, we see potential 
for further incremental productivity 
increases whilst the priority remains 
stable grade delivery. The additional 
shareholder value that can be gained 
from this continued drive for efficiency 
has the potential to be significant 
and requires no material capital 
expenditure. 
The objective, as always, is to generate 
substantial free cash flow even under 
challenging gold price assumptions. 
We intend to return 15‑30% of this 
cash flow to our shareholders, in 
line with our dividend policy, and to 
allocate the remainder towards our 
medium‑ and long‑term objective 
of organic growth aimed at realising 
incremental shareholder value 
and returns.
We take every action to ensure Sukari has the minimum 
impact on the social environment, as well as to deliver 
positive benefits to Egypt and the community as a result 
of our investment. Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
17
No capital expenditure for expansion 
or project development is planned 
for 2016.
Exploration at Sukari continues to 
prioritise extensions of the high‑grade 
underground resource and reserve 
and we expect to continue to deliver 
positive news in line with our strong 
results to date. A resource and reserve 
update is planned during 2016.
In West Africa, we expect a total 
exploration expenditure of circa 
US$25 million in 2016, with the 
largest proportion on the advanced 
exploration programme in Burkina 
Faso. In line with our overall 
exploration strategy, the actual 
expenditure on these projects is results 
driven and the current estimated 
expenditures are therefore subject 
to ongoing revisions.
We will continue to evaluate potential 
opportunities to grow the business 
through the acquisition of projects 
offering the potential for the Company 
to deliver on its strategic objectives. 
Finally, I would like to thank all my 
colleagues for their hard work over 
the years including the employees 
onsite at Sukari, those on the 
exploration sites in Burkina Faso, 
Côte d’Ivoire and Ethiopia as well 
as those in the corporate and 
administration offices in Jersey and 
Australia. I would also like to thank 
your board of directors for their 
continued support and I am very much 
looking forward to another prosperous 
year for Centamin and its stakeholders 
in 2016.
andrew pardey
Chief executive officer
21 March 2016
exploration drill rig  
in côte d’ivoire
