  
04 CEO’s statement 
 
CEO’s statement 
 
Following a year which saw continued growth and our first 
profitable year, we have built a strong sales pipeline and an 
impressive portfolio of customers. Mobile web usage is 
accelerating and mobile payments are becoming increasingly 
important to providers of content and services. As a provider of 
a mobile payments platform and associated analytics tools, 
Bango is a major beneficiary of this trend. Business is 
progressing well at Bango, sales are up and operating costs are 
down.  
 
The key development in the business during the last year has 
been the start of the migration of some of the world’s largest 
content providers away from Premium SMS onto the Bango 
platform. It is commercially more attractive because Bango 
delivers significantly higher conversion rates, in terms of clicks 
to collect payments, compared to other alternative payment 
mechanisms. This translates into higher profits for Bango 
customers enabling them, in turn, to out-spend their 
competitors in marketing. 
  
Bango has seen a significant increase in transactional volumes 
taking place on its platform as part of this migration, and a 
resulting increase in transaction fees generated from this 
activity. The success of these migrations, new Bango features 
released in March 2010 and the recent strengthening of 
Bango’s balance sheet means that we are well positioned for 
the future.  
 
 
Growing transaction volumes 
End user revenue grew by 55% year on year.  
 
The improved sales, financial predictability and customer 
experience Bango is able to offer customers, is what drives 
content providers to use the Bango system instead of SMS 
based solutions. To accelerate this change, a small team was 
established in January 2010 to focus on this opportunity, 
alongside the established sales team which is focused on 
winning new customers.  
 
As more Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) have connected to 
Bango and allowed integration with their billing services, more 
customers have been enabled to access content sold through 
Bango's payment system, in turn, driving transaction volumes. 
The AT&T and Sprint contracts won in the previous financial 
year have driven most of the growth in US transactions. 
Additionally, connections to the T-Mobile USA and Virgin 
Mobile USA billing systems in November 2009 further 
expanded Bango’s US coverage. Discussions are progressing 
with other MNOs including Verizon.  
 
Bango has a sales pipeline of large and medium sized content 
providers, and other businesses, that want to collect payment 
from mobile users or analyze their behavior. Some have not yet 
started the transition from legacy SMS to mobile web. Others 
want to move from the traditional PC web to the mobile internet 
to benefit from the increasing volume and spending power of 
mobile phone users. As customers sign-up and start using the 
Bango Service, their success in selling their products via the 
mobile web should drive more transaction volume.  
 
In addition to payments collected by mobile websites, Bango 
has also introduced products to support payment collection 
from within mobile applications (apps). The popularity of 
mobile applications is driving more developers and content 
providers to commit resources to developing mobile 
applications, as another channel to engage with consumers and 
generate revenue. According to Juniper Research, mobile 
application revenues will be worth £25 billion in 2014. 
  
Growing the Bango customer base 
Bango has succeeded in winning business from many large 
customers during the year including: Fox Mobile, Yahoo, 
Cellfish, Turner Broadcasting System Inc, Go-spoken, Monotype 
Imaging, Sendme Inc, Telenav and All Night Media. 
 
Bango Analytics had its first full year of sales and has 
successfully seen leading brands adopting the product to 
measure the effectiveness of their mobile marketing 
campaigns. The Turner Broadcasting win, covering mobile sites 
such as CNN.com, Adult Swim, Family Guy, Cartoon Network 
and CNN Money was significant – not just in revenue terms but 
also because we are able to focus our innovation and services 
on meeting the needs of an organization which is a leader in 
the provision of ad-funded content.  
 
 
Product development  
There have been three areas of activity for Bango product 
development during the year:  
 
(1) Improvements and innovation in existing services. Alongside 
many incremental improvements, Bango has added the 
innovative capability to use operator billing when users are 
connected through a non-operator (eg Wi-Fi) network, as well as 
optimizations to the user experience for iPhones, Android 
devices and BlackBerry handsets. 
  
(2) New Bango Payment and Analytics services. New services 
include the ability to use Bango Payment from within a mobile 
application as well as from a website, and new services to allow 
deeper integration with the Bango CRM system. A new service 
offering focused on larger Enterprise customers was launched 
during the year. New offerings to open up emerging markets 
such as Brazil and India are under development for initial 
release in 2010.  
 
(3) R&D to support growing transaction volumes and numbers 
of customers. Bango has deployed new hardware and data-
warehouse technologies to support increasing usage volumes. 
New services were developed to allow partners, such as RIM, to 
create customer accounts in the Bango system using their sign-
up processes, to enable rapid on-boarding of thousands of new 
customers to the Bango system without manual involvement at 
Bango. 
  
Bango regularly reviews procedures, capabilities and scalability 
plans with larger customers to be able to meet their present 
and future needs. Information on consumers grew from 40 
million unique mobile subscribers in March 2009 to more than 
73 million in March 2010. The 100 million mark was passed 
during June 2010.  
 
As major businesses become more reliant on Bango, they are 
undertaking extensive due diligence of systems and procedures, 
helping to improve and refine processes going forwards. 
Security checks, on-site audits and capacity testing have been 
undertaken by companies including Turner, RIM and Yahoo.  
   
CEO’s statement 05 
 
 
 
Financial performance 
Gross revenue in FY2010 grew by 48% to £26.1m compared 
with the previous year, with revenue in the second half of the 
year up by 12% compared to the first half year. Revenue from 
outside the UK accounted for 83.2% (£21.7m) of total revenue 
for the year, up from 61% (£10.8m) in the previous year.  
 
Gross profit in the second half grew 1% compared with the first 
half, to give a gross profit for the year of £2.67m.  
 
End user revenue grew by 55% year on year, 13% half on half. 
Gross profit on end user activity grew by 21% to £1.23m from 
£1.02m, whilst margin percentage reduced from 6.4% to 5.0% 
as a result of the earlier decision to lower transaction fees for  
larger content provider customers, resulting in significant 
increases in revenue from larger customers and the opportunity 
for substantial future growth. 
  
Gross profit from content providers decreased by £0.2m to 
£1.44m reflecting the full effect of the decision made in early 
2008 to change the sales process for content providers by 
introducing simpler and cheaper products, requiring reduced 
sales effort and reducing sales and marketing costs by about 
£0.7m year on year. As a result, some migration occurred with 
existing customers moving to cheaper Bango products. 
 
Sales of new Bango Analytics products, launched in February 
2009, made a small contribution to content provider revenues, 
with annualized revenues at the year-end of £225k.  
 
Administrative expenses decreased by £0.41m (12.6%) to 
£2.85m from £3.26m in the previous year, as a result of 
continuing improvement in sales and marketing efficiencies, 
plus increased development focus on activities with benefits in 
future periods. 
  
The loss before tax was £0.25m, improved by 61% compared 
with the loss of £0.65m in FY09.  
 
After an R&D tax credit of £0.26m, Bango achieved its maiden 
profit after tax of £10k. This compares with an after tax loss in 
the previous year of £0.48m.  
 
The cash used by operating activities for the year was £0.05m 
(£0.38m) broadly in line with the profit for the year.  
Expenditure on assets totaled £1.04m (£0.41m), including 
£0.88m (£0.35m) on internal R&D mainly on projects relating 
to high volume analytics processing in future periods.  
 
In January 2010 the Company raised £2.994m net from the 
issue of new ordinary shares at a price of 43p to provide 
increased working capital.  
 
 
Industry trends 
Bango management sees a number of trends that are growing 
the market opportunity for Bango: 
 
• More sophisticated devices are achieving widespread 
adoption 
• The adoption of the mobile web is increasing globally  
• Mobile broadband technology enables the delivery of richer 
content to consumers  
• More mobile users are using the internet and buying 
products on their phones 
• The functionality and usability of mobile web browsers 
continues to improve 
• Businesses are placing more emphasis on the mobile 
channel 
• MNOs are moving to open up opportunities for third 
parties reaching out to their subscribers 
• Increased interest in paid content models as ad-funding 
becomes more challenging 
• Increased competition for useful shelf space in the MNO 
portals and application stores 
• Growing recognition of the value of behavioral or 
personalized marketing 
• Businesses are focussing on payment conversion rates as 
competition becomes more intense 
  
Once a mobile website is established, it is immediately 
accessible to mobile internet users around the world. Once 
available, a web enabled system has a number of requirements 
that make it an expensive and potentially risky undertaking for 
any business. These factors also make a comprehensive and 
highly effective outsourced Bango offering an attractive 
alternative. The types of issues that Bango can address include, 
users who need to be geo-located, age-verified for certain 
content types, MNOs identified or currency and payment 
options accepted. In addition, the appropriate taxes must be 
collected and paid, payment fraud risk mitigated, and 
assurances made that products are not available to banned 
locations or inappropriate consumers.  
 
Direct to mobile  
Traditionally consumers have been encouraged to obtain digital 
content on a PC and transfer it to a mobile device. With the 
mobile phone replacing the iPod as the most popular music 
device and more phones having internet capability, consumers 
are becoming increasingly comfortable with the direct delivery 
of digital products, including software, audio-books, e-books, 
video games, music, and video to their mobile phones. 
  
This shift to direct delivery is being driven by benefits to both 
buyers and sellers of these products. For buyers, downloaded 
products are immediately available for use, without the 
inconvenience of a side-load. For sellers, direct delivery 
increases the speed of user wish fulfillment and maximizes the 
chances of repeat sales.  
 
Bango’s technology and relationships are focused on enabling 
successful mobile web business models because mobile 
devices are increasingly the way in which consumers will be 
connected to content in the future. Many of the world’s largest 
content providers agree with Bango and are starting to use 
Bango’s services and products to replace traditional SMS driven 
content delivery. 
 
Payment and conversation rates  
Traditional internet payment mechanisms such as PayPal have 
been targeting the mobile market for many years but continue 
to show very poor conversion rates. If these systems become 
more effective, they could open up a new opportunity for Bango 
to collect payments from some user groups.  
   
06 CEO’s statement  
 
 
 
App stores  
Application stores such as the BlackBerry App World, Nokia 
OVI store and the Apple App Store are new and increasingly 
important channels for vendors of applications in particular. In 
the case of the Nokia, BlackBerry and Android app stores, 
Bango sees opportunities to help these increase their 
conversion rates by adding Bango payment services. In 
addition, content providers can use Bango alongside 
application stores.  
 
 
Apple currently limits the functionality of the iPhone mobile 
browser to prevent the download of applications, music or video 
unless they have come through an ‘Apple approved channel’ or 
have been side-loaded. This has restricted the size of the 
market for content providers targeting that device. Several 
content providers are now using Bango to charge iPhone users 
for chat, information or streaming services, which are not 
blocked by the iPhone and Apple’s walled garden philosophy.  
 
 
Outlook and strategy for FY ending March 2011  
Bango’s strategy is to leverage its central position in the 
growing commercial mobile internet world in order to benefit 
from the increased level of business activity in this space. With 
considerable technical investment made to date, the Bango 
platform can handle very significant increases in transaction 
volumes without the need for major additional capital 
expenditure.  
 
Bango expects to see continued revenue growth driven by an 
increasing number of customers and a growing volume of 
transactions from established customers. The investments 
made in previous years mean Bango has a stable, automated, 
highly scalable system. This coupled with a proven business 
model and carefully managed cost base means Bango is well 
positioned for profitable growth in the year ahead.  
 
Bango is supporting RIM to drive the success of the BlackBerry 
App World. Enabling success for thousands of BlackBerry App 
developers brings many benefits to RIM, Mobile operators and 
Bango. It is Bango's intention to support Android, iPhone and 
Nokia developers, as well as those on other platforms, either 
directly or through the major application stores.  
 
The new Bango Analytics product is building a good reputation 
for precision and quality. Bango sometimes encounters 
competition from Nielsen or Omniture in its larger prospects, 
but according to prospects they do not have the accuracy or 
quality of data Bango can provide. The ability to measure the 
success of marketing activity accurately can also be a benefit 
for Bango Payment customers.  
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my gratitude to 
Bango’s partners and employees for their continued support. 
Working with mobile operators, content providers, billing 
companies and other commercial partners and investors, Bango 
looks forward to increasing success in the year ahead.  
 
Ray Anderson  
Chief Executive Officer 
 
