 The Group has delivered a resilient 
performance for 2015, during what proved 
to be an incredibly challenging period for 
both the energy sector and the global 
economy. These results, the first full  
year under Iain Conn’s leadership,  
are a testimony to the resilience of our 
businesses, particularly those that are 
customer facing, and the dedication and 
hard work of our employees. 
STRATEGIC REVIEW
In July 2015, we announced the results  
of the Group’s strategic review. This review 
was largely driven by changing external 
factors and the Board’s decision to question 
whether we had the right strategy and mix 
of businesses to take advantage of future 
opportunities. As a Board, we fundamentally 
reassessed our strategy and the direction 
we wanted to take the Group. 
In February 2015, we took the tough but 
necessary decision to cut the dividend, 
having reduced capital investment.  
This was a further reason to review the 
Group’s strategic direction so that we  
could move into the next phase with 
confidence and certainty.
Our review concluded that Centrica is first 
and foremost a customer-facing business. 
We are an energy and services company 
and our purpose is to deliver energy and 
services to satisfy the changing needs of 
our customers. 
The outcome of the review requires a 
change to our portfolio mix with our growth 
areas focused on our customer-facing 
businesses and a reduced scale in gas and 
oil E&P to a level which will still allow us to 
participate effectively in that market, 
Chairman’s Statement 
Rick Haythornthwaite, Chairman
“ Centrica is first and foremost a customer-facing 
business. We are an energy and services company 
and our purpose is to deliver energy and services  
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers. ” 
 S e r v ing o u r 
customers  
for over  
200 years... 
1812–1948 1973 1986
Gas Light & Coke 
Company formed
British Gas Corporation 
established
British Gas privatised
The Gas Light & Coke Company, 
formed by Frederick Winsor, was 
incorporated by Royal Charter in 
1812. In 1948, the Gas & Coal Act 
nationalised the industry merging 
over 1,000 privately owned and 
municipal companies into 12 area 
gas boards.
The Gas Council is abolished 
following the introduction of the 
Gas Act in 1972 and British Gas 
Corporation is established in 
1973. The corporation is 
responsible for the development 
and maintenance of the supply  
of gas to Great Britain.
British Gas Corporation is privatised 
and British Gas plc is formed. The 
‘Tell Sid’ campaign is launched 
allowing customers to buy a stake  
in British Gas. Ofgas, the forerunner 
of Ofgem, is created to regulate the 
gas industry.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
02 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 1997 2000 2002–2003
Centrica plc formed Direct Energy acquired  Rough storage facility 
secured
Centrica is formed when British 
Gas plc is demerged into two 
separate companies; Centrica plc 
and BG plc. Centrica maintains 
the British Gas brand in the UK.
Centrica’s acquisition of Direct 
Energy marks a major step  
in international expansion.  
Direct Energy is the largest 
unregulated retailer of natural 
gas in North America.
Centrica acquired the Rough 
offshore gas storage facility  
off the East Yorkshire coast.  
This is the largest gas storage 
facility in the UK, holding the 
majority of the UK’s current 
storage capacity.
diversify our cash flows and help us to 
manage risk by contributing to the strength 
of our balance sheet. Although we are 
making significant investment now, the 
benefits from these changes will be realised 
over the next three to five years.
21
ST
 CENTURY ENERGY COMPANY
We believe in operating transparently, 
treating employees fairly and linking reward 
to performance. These principles are not 
only the ‘right thing to do’ but make good 
business sense too. 
We also believe that we have a duty  
to make a positive contribution to the 
communities in which we operate. In the  
UK alone, Centrica supports 174,000 jobs 
and 6,000 companies supplying goods  
and services through our supply chain.  
In addition, we provide opportunities for 
training and apprenticeships to upskill  
and motivate our workforce. 
Within the energy sector, we face particular 
challenges around sustainability:
• heightened expectations for support to 
be given to those who are most affected 
by the additional costs of carbon 
reduction targets; 
• prioritising technologies of lowest cost 
and least regret; and
• setting simple cost-effective 
decarbonisation targets.
The Board is engaged in understanding the 
potential of new technology and big data  
in our sector and the role that leadership 
can play in exploiting new opportunities  
and guarding against new risks. In order  
to succeed in the 21
st
 century, we will need 
to focus our energies on building trust, 
  
being nimble in our formulation of strategy 
and attracting new talent to Centrica who 
can provide us with competitive advantage. 
Crucially, we will need to do this while 
maintaining our aim to deliver long-term 
shareholder value through both returns and 
growth. These goals are neither easy nor 
will they be achieved overnight but they  
are an essential element of our journey  
to transform Centrica. 
BOARD CHANGES IN 2015
At the start of the year, Iain Conn was 
appointed as the Group’s Chief Executive 
and he has shown that his breadth of 
knowledge and commitment to customers 
and safety make him ideally suited to  
lead Centrica in the next phase of its 
development. He has made a significant 
contribution in leading the Group’s strategic 
review and has underpinned the outcome 
with comprehensive implementation plans. 
During the year, both Carlos Pascual and 
Steve Pusey joined the Board as Non-
Executive Directors. Carlos’ experience  
in international energy geopolitics and 
economic and commercial development 
has enhanced the Board’s global 
perspective and he has brought strong 
challenge to the strategic review. Steve’s 
considerable international experience as a 
senior customer-facing business technology 
leader has provided a new dimension to our 
Board’s discussions and undoubtedly this 
helps us develop our thinking in respect  
of our innovative offerings to customers. 
Mark Hodges, Executive Director and Chief 
Executive, Energy Supply & Services,  
UK & Ireland also joined the Board in 2015.  
Mark has substantial experience of running a 
major UK customer-facing business and has 
a strong track record in improving customer 
service, increasing performance and driving 
growth through innovation. Mark is well 
placed to lead the business in this next 
phase and our customer-facing businesses 
are already benefiting significantly from his 
capabilities. Jeff Bell, who was appointed as 
interim Group Chief Financial Officer, has 
been confirmed in post. Jeff brings extensive 
experience in driving financial performance 
and has a strong track record in developing 
and leading finance teams both in the UK 
and in North America having joined the 
Group in 2002. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
FRAMEWORK
During 2015, the Board undertook a 
fundamental review of the Group’s principal 
risks and its corporate governance 
framework and considered the primary 
roles of the Board’s Committees and  
their membership. A new Committee was 
convened, the Safety, Health, Environment, 
Security and Ethics Committee (SHESEC), 
under the chairmanship of Mike Linn.  
Its purpose is to ensure the effective 
management of risks in respect of people: 
engagement, culture and behaviours; 
sourcing and supplier management;  
health, safety, environment and security; 
information systems security; and legal, 
regulatory and ethical standards 
compliance. There is further discussion  
on the corporate governance framework 
and individual Committee reports in the 
Directors’ and Corporate Governance 
Report starting on page 47.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
03 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION BOARD EVALUATION
Centrica has for many years conducted a 
thorough review of Board process, practice 
and culture on an annual basis with the 
input of an external facilitator at least once 
every three years. The Board considers 
such annual reviews as an essential part  
of good corporate governance. In 2015,  
we assessed our effectiveness internally 
building on the findings from the 2014 
external exercise. We focused on our 
progress against our improvement agenda 
and new reflections in the light of our 
evolving context and composition. This is 
discussed further in our Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance Report on page 50. 
DIVERSITY
Centrica continues to support diversity in  
all its forms, from the top of our organisation 
down. We believe that a mixed, diverse 
workforce is best able to engage with  
our customers and society. We know  
that diversity drives better insight and 
understanding of customers, leads to better 
innovations and itself attracts diverse talent. 
More information on our diversity agenda 
can be found on page 50. 
OUTLOOK
For 2016, continued weaknesses in 
commodity prices will provide challenges for 
the Group. However, I am confident in the 
Group’s resilience against this backdrop. 
The Group will continue to engage actively 
in discussions on energy policy in the UK, 
Europe and North America in the interests 
of our customers and stakeholders.
The clear outcome of the 2015 UK general 
election has provided greater political 
certainty. The Competition and Markets 
Authority (CMA) investigation into the UK 
energy market is ongoing and we welcomed 
this wide-ranging review and the possibility 
that it will have a constructive influence  
on competition in the sector.
The Group is underpinned by our 
competitive advantage including our strong 
market share in the geographies we operate 
in, good brands and deep energy services 
capability. Building on these strengths, our 
strategic direction involves less reliance on 
upstream and more investment in sources 
of differentiation in Energy Services, 
Connected Home, Distributed Energy & 
Power (DE&P) and Energy Marketing & 
Trading (EM&T). 
Looking ahead, our people and our 
technologies are what will make us 
distinctive, giving us the competitive 
advantage to not only respond to the 
changing global energy sector but to win  
for our customers. For these reasons,  
I believe this is an exciting time for Centrica. 
Rick Haythornthwaite
Chairman
18 February 2016
“  Our strategic direction involves 
less reliance on upstream and 
more investment in sources  
of differentiation in Energy 
Services, Connected Home, 
Distributed Energy & Power and 
Energy Marketing & Trading. ” 
2009 2013 2014 2015
Centrica expands  
in the North Sea  
and into nuclear
Energy Marketing  
business of Hess 
Corporation acquired
Bord Gáis Energy  
acquired
AlertMe and Panoramic 
Power acquired
Centrica acquired Venture 
Production to become a  
leading operator of mature and 
orphaned gas assets in the UK 
continental shelf and acquires a 
20% interest in British Energy’s 
nuclear fleet of power stations 
from EDF.
Direct Energy acquired the 
Energy Marketing business of 
Hess Corporation. This made 
Direct Energy the largest business 
gas supplier on the US East 
Coast and the second largest 
business power supplier in the  
US retail markets.
Centrica acquired Bord Gáis 
Energy, a vertically integrated 
energy supply business in the 
adjacent market of the Republic 
of Ireland from Bord Gáis Éireann, 
the state-owned energy company.
British Gas completed the 
acquisition of AlertMe,  
a UK-based connected home 
company. Direct Energy also 
acquired Panoramic Power, a 
leading provider of device-level 
energy management solutions.
READ MORE IN OUR BUSINESSES ON PAGE 12. 
Chairman’s Statement continued
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
04 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
