 8
CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
We have now returned to shareholders over 100% of 
the $60 million raised at IPO five years ago. With the 
proposed 2015 final dividend of 8 pence per share, 
total returns to shareholders since commencement 
of operations in 2012 represents 31% of the gross 
revenue generated.
MAXIMISING 
SHAREHOLDER VALUE 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
30 September 2015 marked the fifth anniversary of CAML joining 
the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange and we have 
accomplished a great deal since that time. The success we have 
achieved is the result of the skill and hard work of every one of 
our employees and I thank them for their contributions over the 
past five years. 
At IPO, the Company raised $60 million and soon thereafter 
started construction of the Kounrad SX-EW plant which was 
completed on time and under budget. Since production 
commenced in April 2012, the plant has produced 40,302 tonnes 
of copper at an average C1 cash cost of $0.63/lb based on the 
industry definition as explained on page 23. This low cash cost of 
production has enabled the Company to pay back to 
shareholders via share buy-backs and dividends over $73 million 
including the proposed 2015 final dividend of 8 pence per share. 
This was a notable milestone for the Company and one of which 
we are extremely proud. 
It is all the more pleasing that these achievements have been 
made in the current challenging market conditions where the 
copper price fell to a six-year low of approximately $4,500/t 
during 2015. Whilst the commodity price environment is outside 
our control, CAML’s low cash costs at Kounrad gives us the 
resilience to weather a prolonged commodity downturn. The 
current market conditions are challenging for all mining 
companies, many of whom, we note, have cut or suspended 
dividend payments. 
Kounrad operations – record production in 2015
During the year, we reported record copper cathode production 
of 12,071 tonnes (2014: 11,136 tonnes) representing an 8.4% 
increase year on year. 
Our continued focus on cost control together with the 
devaluation of the Kazakh Tenge against the US Dollar since 
August 2015, has maintained Kounrad’s position in the lowest 
quartile of the industry cash cost curve.  2015 C1 cash costs were  
$0.60/lb (2014: $0.62/lb) representing a 3% decrease year on year.
The production incident we reported in June 2015 impacted 
adversely on our 2015 production, but nonetheless we have still 
managed to increase our output compared to 2014. To 31 
December 2015, the Kounrad SX-EW plant had been in operation 
for 44 months at an average utilisation rate of 98.5% and 
produced 40,302 tonnes of copper, and this was the first such 
major interruption to operations. 
The Company has an established presence in Kazakhstan and 
since the start of commercial operations at Kounrad, has paid 
$68 million in various taxes to the Kazakhstan authorities. We 
have contributed close to $1 million towards social programmes 
and the local community and currently employ approximately 
276 staff, the majority of whom have been recruited locally.
Regrettably, after three years of production at Kounrad with an 
exemplary health and safety record, we experienced our first 
major accident in July 2015. The accident resulted in injuries to 
two employees, both of whom have received the appropriate 
medical treatment and were given all of the necessary support 
to ensure a swift recovery. Detailed internal and external 
investigations were undertaken to ensure that the risk of a similar 
accident is minimised. 
Nick Clarke
CEO Governance
9
CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Financial Statements
Total  
copper produced
40,302t
at 31 December 2015
Total  
returns to shareholders
31%
of gross revenues since IPO
Kounrad – Stage 2 Expansion  
programme underway 
In November 2015, the Ministry for Investment and Development 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved an amendment to the 
project’s existing Subsoil Use Contract (“SUC”). This approval 
gives CAML the right to exploit the copper contained in the 
western dumps with commencement of production scheduled 
in 2017.
The procurement of materials and equipment for the Stage 2 
Expansion is now underway, with the programme’s capital cost 
remaining within the $19.5 million estimate. The construction 
works will be executed primarily by Company personnel.
Whilst a formality, this State approval offers a clear indication of 
the Kazakhstan government’s readiness to support foreign 
investors, and enabled CAML to fully commit to the second 
phase of the Kounrad project’s expansion. The successful 
commissioning of the additional SX-EW facilities in 2015 has 
already had a positive impact on our unit cost of production, 
and I have full confidence in our team at Kounrad successfully 
completing this next stage of the projects’ development in a 
diligent and timely manner.
Copper Bay – Definitive Feasibility Study 
(“DFS”) in progress 
In June 2015, we announced that we had increased our 
shareholding in the Copper Bay project in Chile to 75%, 
following an additional investment of $3 million. These funds  
are being used for the DFS that is currently underway, which  
will provide more accuracy and confidence regarding all aspects 
of the project. The DFS should be completed in late 2016. 
CAML management will continue to monitor the future 
technical and economic viability of the project based on  
the outputs of the DFS and the prevailing copper  
market environment. 
Outlook and growth opportunities 
We will focus our efforts on maintaining our low cash costs and 
meeting our 2016 production target of 13,000 to 14,000 tonnes. 
Consistent monitoring and analysis of the copper leaching rate 
since production commenced in April 2012 indicates that the 
recovery of copper from the dumps is taking slightly longer than 
originally projected. The Company remains confident of 
producing the same total tonnage of copper from the Kounrad 
resource as previously estimated, thereby extending the life of 
the operation beyond 2030.
Delivery on time and within the capital budget of the Stage 2 
Expansion programme at Kounrad is a primary objective for 
2016. Further to our investment in Copper Bay, we continue to 
look for only the very best investment opportunities to create 
value for our shareholders. With CAML’s strong balance sheet, 
the Company is confident that it has sufficient funds available to 
finance the dividend policy, complete the capital expansion at 
Kounrad and provide the Company with the financial flexibility 
to support the growth of the business.
Nick Clarke
Chief Executive Officer 
