 10 11
PERFORMANCE REPORT
BUSINESS MODEL 
The Group’s activities are categorised across four market 
segments: Marketing, Financial Services, Professional 
and Home Interest.  These activities are supported by 
expert teams across digital product development, IQ 
(marketing and research), production, live events and 
exhibition operations. 
The Group generates revenues from three primary revenue 
sources: paid-for content, live events and advertising.
 Paid-for content revenues include:
Subscriptions: These are the fees that customers pay to 
receive access to the Group’s information, through online 
access to various databases or through regular delivery of 
soft copy research or hard copy magazines.  Subscription 
revenue is recognised over the period of the subscription.
Copy sales: These are generated primarily across 
the Group’s Home Interest print titles, Homebuilding 
& Renovating, Real Homes and Period Living, and 
selectively across the Group’s business magazines, 
including Creative Review and Marketing Week.  This 
area also covers the sale of market reports from the 
Platforum business and other one-off sales of products 
and services.  Revenues are recognised in line with the 
publishing schedule for these products.
  Live events revenues are all recognised when the event 
is held and are typically paid in advance of the event. 
These include:
Exhibitor revenues: This represents space sold at our live 
events that enable our customers to raise awareness and 
sell their products and services.  It is an ideal way for our 
customers to forge new relationships through face-to-
face meetings and sell or showcase their products.
Sponsorship revenues: Across all of our live events, we 
have partners that want to be associated with the event. 
Through their participation they can create, develop and 
increase brand awareness, furthering their credibility 
within a target audience to develop contacts and exposure 
for their business. 
Attendee revenues: Our consumer-focused exhibitions, 
The Festival of Marketing and our meetings and awards 
events all charge a fee for attendees to access the event.  
The Group also generates revenues from sales of tables 
for companies and individuals attending the various 
industry awards evenings the Group organises, as well as 
the paid-for entries to these awards. 
Training revenues: The Group provides digital marketing 
training services to customers in the UK and overseas 
through the Econsultancy business.  These services are 
delivered through public training courses and through the 
delivery of bespoke services to clients.  The revenues are 
recognised when the training is delivered.
  Advertising revenues represent the fees that customers 
pay to place an advertisement in one or more of the Group’s 
publications, either in print, online or on mobile. There are 
products where advertising is the main driver and others 
where advertising is simply a supplemental earnings 
stream. This includes display, classified and recruitment 
advertising whatever the delivery platform. The Group 
also classifies as advertising, revenues generated from 
sponsored content, content marketing, native advertising 
and other publication-based marketing solutions, whether 
print or digital.  Revenue is recognised on publication.
We build a deeper understanding of the commercial 
opportunities across each market through an unremitting 
focus on our markets and audience.  We know that 
our customers want flexible content that works 
seamlessly across multiple platforms.  By leveraging this 
market insight and an understanding of our customer 
requirements we are able to offer a higher-value customer 
proposition.  This is delivered in whatever format our 
clients want, whether that is in print, digital or as a live 
event.  Each market segment has clear growth plans 
focused on new digital products, new revenues streams, 
multi-platform content and clear competitor differentials.
Supporting each of these markets, we have centralised 
expert teams across digital product development, IQ 
(marketing and research), production, live events and 
exhibition operations. 
These teams provide the expertise and scale that allows 
us to support effectively and efficiently the delivery of 
commercial opportunities across each market.  The 
creation of these expert teams also enables us to manage 
our cost base effectively and to prioritise investment 
across the business.
The commercial activities of the business, including 
the market-facing portfolios and the expert teams, are 
supported by Group functions including finance, HR, 
property, legal, risk management and IT.
All costs across the business are tightly managed with a 
rigorous focus on margin and return on investment. We 
seek to maintain as flexible and scalable a cost base as 
possible, outsourcing or consolidating shared activities 
where possible.  All of our London activities are now 
consolidated within one building.
This structure creates the potential to scale opportunities 
that alongside underlying revenue growth enables good 
progression in adjusted operating margins.  It also creates 
the opportunity to effectively bolt on acquisitions where 
these can accelerate revenue and margin growth. 
While our business remains primarily UK-focused, we have a 
growing presence in North America and Asia, and we continue 
to explore opportunities across these markets. To underline 
Centaur’s outward-looking strategy, an experienced general 
manager to oversee our US businesses was appointed in 
February 2015 and is based in our New York office.
STRATEGIC REPORT 
STRATEGY
Centaur Media is a content business that predominantly 
offers professionals products and services that accelerate 
their marketing and business performance.  Our core 
objective is to deliver sustainable growth in revenues, 
profits and cash flow, and in turn to increase shareholder 
value.  To achieve this we have set out four strategic 
priorities. These are set out below alongside the initiatives 
we are taking to deliver these, the associated risks and 
the KPIs against which we measure progress internally.  
See page 13 for a detailed explanation of the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties.
PRIORITY ACTIONS KEY RISKS METRICS
To be the most 
knowledgeable,  
connected and 
authoritative  
experts in our markets
The Group has refocused 
across its core market 
segments, and has created 
expert teams to support the 
commercial activity across 
each market. 
    Competitive threat and 
loss of key staff
    Industry recognition
    Client engagement
    Market share
To generate sustainable 
growth in profits and cash 
flows with high quality, 
recurring revenue streams 
and an efficient and 
scalable operating model
The Group is leveraging its 
expertise across live events 
and digital paid-for content 
to grow these recurring 
revenue streams. The 
restructure around expert 
teams and Group functions 
creates the scale that 
can support good margin 
growth.
    Downturn in economy  
or market sectors 
    Failure in digital or live 
events strategy
    Increasing share of live 
events and paid-for 
content revenues 
    Growth in subscription 
invoiced contract values
    Adjusted operating 
margin
    Revenue per employee
To create products and 
services that are both 
innovative and market-
leading, backed by 
strong digital and events 
expertise
The focus across our core 
markets and the creation 
of expert teams in digital 
and live events enable 
the Group to prioritise 
investment and to maintain 
a strong pipeline of new 
product development.
    Competitive threat
    Downturn in market 
sector
    Failure to respond 
fast enough to market 
requirements or 
technological change
    Successful launches 
measured against 
return on investment, 
revenues and operating 
margin
    Market share
To be a united team of 
entrepreneurial, multi-
skilled professionals
Creation of a ‘One Centaur 
Media’ culture.  Alignment 
of incentive plans and link 
to portfolio and Group 
metrics.
    Loss of key staff
    Failure to recruit and 
retain talented new 
employees
     Staff retention and 
engagement
