 6 7
PERFORMANCE REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Overview
Centaur made steady progress against its strategic 
priorities during the year.  2015 was the second year of 
our programme to re-energise and to build a platform 
that can support stronger growth in the future.  We are 
focused on improving our brands and products for both 
audiences and customers through innovation, platform 
improvements and specific product changes. 
We have improved the overall quality of our revenue streams 
and earnings, with total digital and live events revenues 
now accounting for almost 80% of Group revenues and with 
adjusted operating profit margins up to 15%. 
Across the Group we are gradually transitioning away 
from less visible transactional revenues dependent 
on scale – such as advertising – to those that can 
deliver significantly more value to our customers.  Our 
investment and focus on the customer is critical if we 
want to improve the quality of our paid-for content.  We 
must create content that adds value to their business and 
that they are willing to pay for.  However whilst advertising 
revenues still contribute just under one third of the 
Group’s total revenues, we have successfully reshaped our 
relationship with our audiences and clients to be more 
digitally-focused, and digital advertising now accounts for 
almost 60% of total advertising revenues. 
In my 2014 review, I set out the vision for Centaur Media 
as a multi-platform content group.  The four strategic 
priorities which were set out at that time remain central 
to everything we do. 
  To be the most 
knowledgeable, connected 
and authoritative 
experts in our markets, 
totally focussed on our 
customers’ needs
  To generate sustainable 
growth in profits and cash 
flow with high-quality 
revenue streams and an 
efficient and scalable 
operating model
  To create products and 
services that are both 
innovative and market-
leading, backed by  
strong digital and  
events expertise
  To be a united team of 
entrepreneurial, multi-
skilled professionals
2015 saw many achievements.  We re-launched 9 
magazines, 12 of our websites and 2 other annual events 
and launched 6 new annual events and one bi-annual 
event as well as 3 new subscription products.  Improving 
the engagement with our digital audiences is a critical 
ingredient to re-energise our well-established brands and 
we are delighted to report that we have seen numerous 
examples of improved digital engagement. 
The Home Interest portfolio has performed exceptionally 
well, with underlying revenue growth of 9%, 
demonstrating the importance of a market-led strategy.  
I am also encouraged to see that the Financial Services 
portfolio, which reported a 12% underlying decline in 
revenues in 2014, saw underlying revenues grow by 3% in 
2015. 
The Marketing portfolio grew underlying revenues by 
4%, which was lower than the 7% growth achieved in 
2014, but we are confident that the rate of growth will 
improve in 2016.  Across the Professional portfolio, total 
underlying revenues grew by 1%, helped by a particularly 
strong performance from the Legal portfolio. This was 
offset by declining HR revenues and modest underlying 
growth from across the Engineering and Travel portfolios. 
Reflecting a more moderate growth outlook across the 
Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, 
and specifically reflecting weaker print and advertising 
trends, the Group has recognised a non-cash impairment 
of £11.9m against goodwill in the Professional segment 
(2014: £nil).
During the year we have invested in building our own in-
house conference team.  We can see good opportunity in 
this area across all of our portfolios and it is important to 
us to manage this opportunity ourselves.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
This is my first review as Chairman of Centaur Media, 
having been appointed in May 2015.  In the intervening 
time, I have come to understand a great deal about the 
inherent strengths and attractiveness of the Group, 
together with an appreciation of some of the challenges 
that we face in rapidly changing markets.
The world of B2B media is highly competitive, and 
the creation of sustainably differentiated offerings 
to customers across multiple platforms is far from 
straightforward.  Ultimately, success hinges upon an in-
depth understanding of customer requirements and how 
these are evolving, coupled with sufficient organisational 
agility to deliver the desired mix of insightful products 
and services.  It is this market-led approach, built 
upon understanding and meeting customer needs, that 
characterises the Centaur strategy.
Under the leadership of Andria Vidler and her 
team, Centaur has embarked upon a programme of 
transformation. A disparate collection of independent 
brands is being melded into a focused set of vertical 
market portfolios, where customer understanding and 
relationship can be leveraged. A print heritage is gradually 
being replaced by a truly multi-platform approach, with 
a clear focus on paid-for digital content and live events. 
Innovation is a crucial ingredient in the mix.
The Centaur transformation is not easy; it brings with it a 
degree of organisational complexity and the requirement 
to foster new behaviours and ways of doing business 
within the Group. It is also not yet complete; whilst the 
core elements are in place, much remains to be done. And 
the transformation is taking place against a backdrop of a 
continuing decline in print advertising spend, particularly 
in relation to recruitment advertising. But I am confident 
that the chosen strategic direction is sound and that 
Andria and her executive team have the talent, ambition 
and commitment to deliver it. A platform is being 
created at Centaur that should provide the foundations 
for superior growth, both organically and through 
selective acquisition, in revenues, profits and ultimately, 
shareholder value.
Results and Dividend
In 2015, Centaur’s underlying revenues grew by 4% to 
£70.5m.  Adjusted operating profit grew by 3% to £10.5m, 
and adjusted diluted earnings per share rose by 6% to 5.3 
pence.
In light of this performance, the Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 1.5 pence per share, to give a total 
dividend for the year of 3.0 pence per share.  This 
compares to 3.85p per share for the 18 months ended 31 
December 2014. 
2015 has been a year of good progress across many fronts 
at Centaur.  This reflects the commitment and dedication 
of colleagues at all levels in the Group, and I would like to 
extend my thanks to all for their hard work.
Governance
Centaur remains fully committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance, and the Board takes very 
seriously its duties to operate with integrity, transparency 
and clear accountability.  It also pays close attention to 
understanding and managing risk.  Detail of what this 
means in practice, for the Board and its Committees, is 
contained within the governance section of the Annual 
Report.
During the year, I succeeded Patrick Taylor as Chairman 
of Centaur.  On behalf of the Board, I am keen to extend 
my thanks to Patrick for his leadership and his very 
considerable contribution over many years.
Our Senior Independent Director, Chris Satterthwaite, 
has informed the Board of his intention to step down 
during 2016 after 9 years as a Non-Executive Director of 
the Group.  He will only do so once a new Non-Executive 
Director has been appointed, and we have now started 
a process to identify and appoint a suitable candidate.  
Chris’s commitment and contribution to Centaur has been 
outstanding, and he will be much missed when he leaves 
later this year. 
Ronald Sandler
Chairman
16 March 2016
