           Chairman’s statement 03 
 
Chairman’s statement 
 
Bango has made excellent progress this year as demonstrated by 
both its results for the financial year to end of March 2010 and 
the signing of major new customers that are leaders in the mobile 
internet. In addition, the Company has grown sales by 48% while 
reducing operating expenses – resulting in a profitable second 
half, and a maiden profit for the full year. 
  
Bango enables commerce on the mobile web for hundreds of 
businesses. It delivers the most efficient means of collecting 
payments as well as providing reliable, accurate tools for 
measuring actual consumer behavior and returns on marketing 
investment. 
  
Mobile content providers using Bango enjoy higher view-to-
purchase conversion rates than those using alternative methods. 
Simply put, they make more sales. Bango’s largest US customers 
are increasing profitability and providing better customer 
experiences by migrating from legacy Premium SMS suppliers to 
Bango’s web based systems. 
  
Bango’s systems provide simplicity to the user and increased sales 
to content providers. The unique and sophisticated technology is a 
result of many years of development and refinement, and has 
become closely integrated with the billing systems of major mobile 
network operators. As a result, Bango is therefore able to maintain 
its competitive advantage.  
 
Bango is serving a large and growing market. The worldwide 
mobile content market is expected to surpass $64 billion by 
2012, up from $20 billion in 2007, according to Juniper 
Research. Major mobile phone manufacturers, mobile operators 
and internet businesses are driving the uptake of the mobile 
internet.  
 
The growth in mobile content sales and the switch to an internet 
model for payment and delivery gives Bango the opportunity to 
become a significant player in this important sector.  
 
Bango’s growth is driven both by businesses that are new to 
mobile content and services sales and by established mobile 
content sellers. They are transitioning their business from the 
older Premium SMS payment method to the Bango platform to 
benefit from the increasing popularity of the mobile internet and 
the increased sales opportunities through Bango.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bango can deliver further substantial growth in transaction 
volumes through its unique technology, operator relationships and 
strong operational foundation without a significant increase in 
operating expenses.  
 
The placement of 7.5 million new shares in January 2010 raised 
£3 million net of expenses. This strengthened the balance sheet 
and gives the Company flexibility to accelerate mobile operator 
payments to key customers, thereby improving margin and growth 
opportunities.  
 
With its ability to facilitate commerce on the mobile web, the 
Board is pleased to see that Bango is already benefitting from the 
growth in this market and, in anticipation of this burgeoning 
market, looks to the future with confidence. 
  
I would like to thank Bango's executive directors and staff for their 
unswerving efforts to make Bango a dominant player in this 
exciting, fast-growing, global industry.  
 
 
 
Lindsay Bury 
Chairman
