 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2015 11
In 2015 CentralNic’s growth strategy was validated not only
by the strong results delivered, but also by the strategic
successes across the business.
Ben Crawford  Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s report
Performance overview
CentralNic delivered continued promising growth: achieving
billings of £26.87m (a 172% increase over 2014), £10.39m
in revenues (up 71% over 2014) and EBITDA of £3.25m
(an increase of 89% over 2014). All three of our divisions –
Wholesale, Retail and Enterprise – experienced profitable growth
above 10% based on their respective EBITDA contributions.
Our strategic successes were equally notable. In 2015 the
world’s largest company, Alphabet (the newly-launched
holding company for Google), selected and now uses a
CentralNic-powered domain name abc.xyz as the address for
its official website. In 2015 CentralNic emerged as the world’s
leading wholesaler of domains using new Top-Level Domains.
We grew our retail business Internet.BS, with revenues growing
organically by 21% in its first full year under our ownership. We
won our first client for DomiNIC, our domain name management
software, and achieved initial revenues from licensing our
software to a Dot Brand registry operator.
At the end of the year the Group had cash balances of
£19.06m (2014: £3.06m) reflecting the equity placing in
December (in readiness for the completion of the acquisition of the
Instra Group in January 2016) combining with favourable working
capital movements as a result of demand for the new gTLDs.
Wholesale Division
With revenues of £3.13m (2014: £2.83 million) in its
Wholesale Division, CentralNic emerged as the world’s
leading wholesaler (or “Registry Backend Provider”) of domain
names using new gTLDs. CentralNic had more retailers actively
selling its new gTLDs than any competitor; it was the first
wholesaler to achieve the two million domains under
management milestone; and it finished the year with more
new gTLD domains under management than any competitor,
including five new TLDs in the ranks of the Top Twenty sellers,
from a total universe of around 800 launched by CentralNic and
its peers. (Source: industry statistics website ntldstats.com)
A number of factors are contributing to the success of
CentralNic’s Wholesale Division. These include our proven ability
to win new business, with nine of the TLDs we launched
originally contracted to competitors, and another, .COOP,
migrated onto our platform after we won the contract through
an open tender.
Our focus on emerging markets, especially China, which predates
our IPO in 2013, has proven prescient, as the Chinese market for
domain names experienced growth unprecedented anywhere in
the world during 2015. China continues to be our largest market
for new registration volumes globally, whilst our core recurring
renewal revenues are spread around the world, mitigating our
exposure to future fluctuations in any individual market.
CentralNic wholesales a wide range of TLDs from higher priced
restricted domains like .reit (for Real Estate Insurance Trusts)
and .tickets to mass market generic domain names priced
affordably for emerging markets, such as .xyz, .online,
.website, .site and .space, which are all in the top twenty
best-selling new TLDs by volume.
.xyz continues to be the clear leader among all new Top-Level
Domains, finishing the year with 1.8 million domains under
management. .xyz is also the new TLD with the highest number
of websites built on it, attracted by the .xyz brand which has
become synonymous with “new” and “cool.” .xyz customers
include not only the official website of Alphabet, but also
Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg who used the domain
http://stream.hacktv.xyz/qandawithmark-ext to post a video
of one of his town hall meetings, and the co-founders of
Skype, whose new business of supplying robots for deliveries,
can be found at starship.xyz. 12 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s report continued
CentralNic’s Wholesale Business is agile and is able to scale to
satisfy market demand. Prior to the launch of the new TLDs,
CentralNic’s Wholesale Business had been reliant on SLDs such
as .uk.com. Whilst these domains continue to contribute to
revenues and profits, the mix of revenues is evolving towards
the new TLDs due to market demand, and we expect it to
continue to evolve as we take advantage of new opportunities.
Retail Division
CentralNic’s Retail Division revenues in 2015 were £3.41m
(2014: £1.55m). Internet.BS, the domain name retailer acquired
by CentralNic in June 2014, experienced growth by over
100,000 domains under management in 2015, an increase of
17%. This growth was achieved in the context of a highly
competitive market with aggressive new entrants seeking to
win customers in the domain name investor/web professionals
category. The Retail Division also launched new dedicated
websites for the TLDs .reit, .cymru, .wales and .bank. Accent
Media (in which CentralNic holds a minority equity stake)
launched the .tickets TLD to a responsive industry with early
clients including all teams in the US National Football League,
Major League Baseball and National Basketball Association,
Formula 1, English Premier League teams, and popular music
artists such as Adele and U2 among others.
Significant management and Retail Division resources were
deployed during 2015 on the acquisition of Instra Group, which
completed in January 2016. This deal enhances CentralNic’s
quality of earnings by increasing the amount of recurring revenues
as a percentage of total earnings. Instra gives CentralNic access
to a new customer base of corporate and SME customers.
Moreover it enhances CentralNic’s capabilities with the proven
skills required to profitably enter emerging markets and to satisfy
customers’ needs for almost any domain name.
Enterprise Division
CentralNic’s Enterprise Division continued to grow in 2015, with
revenues of £3.86m (2014: £1.69m). Our premium domain name
business performed well with revenue of £3.22m achieved during
the year (2014: £1.61m). And with our assistance a number of
corporate clients completed the ICANN processes required to
obtain their own Dot Brand Top-Level Domains, with the objective
of launching these in 2016.
CentralNic also secured the first enterprise clients for our
domain name registry and workflow automation software
products, which enable enterprise customers to manage
domain name related services internally, rather than relying on
more expensive outsource service providers. To ensure the
ongoing support of this software, CentralNic acquired dnsXperts
in 2015, a small German technology company specialising
in domain name related development and support.
Investor market activity
CentralNic was active in the investor market in 2015, conducting
one fund raise to accommodate an institutional investor seeking
to join our share register, and a second towards funding the
Instra acquisition. We are delighted that a number of funds
new to the Company have elected to invest in our business,
and we thank our investors for their continued support.
Outlook
I am delighted to report a number of major steps forward in
2016. Our Wholesale business was the first to cross the three
million new TLD domains under management mark in February
2016 and four million new TLD domains under management
milestone in April 2016. We also announced that CentralNic is
the exclusive global wholesaler for the new TLD .store, which
was launched in April 2016. We completed the acquisition of
Instra in January 2016 and have made good progress with
the integration of this business.
Demand for value-priced new TLDs continues in China,
where CentralNic’s Wholesale Division has a leading position.
In addition to enjoying continued growth in this sector, CentralNic
has a healthy pipeline of new TLD clients with industry-specific
domains to launch in 2016 and beyond. Additionally, the
industry regulator ICANN has commenced a review of the new
TLD programme as a first step towards opening future rounds
of applications – meaning future opportunities for CentralNic.
Continuing demand from emerging markets and for
industry-specific and country-specific TLDs is expected to
continue to drive growth in our Retail Division, which is among
the leading vendors of domains ranging from .law for lawyers
to .ae for the United Arab Emirates.
Increased concern in the corporate world about cyber-security is
likely to lead to increased demand for expertise on vulnerabilities
in the areas of domain names and DNS. CentralNic recognises
the need to adapt its enterprise services to compete in this area
of online security and protection. Strategic plans are underway
to supplement its existing services with additional offerings to
position it to win business in this segment.
And the earliest stages of the new engagement of enterprise
with domain names is starting to emerge, with companies like
Barclays Bank, BNP Paribas, BMW and Google starting to use
their own Top-Level Domains. We expect to see these Dot
Brand initiatives gain momentum from 2016, including with the
introduction of Internet of Things applications, which could also
create entirely new opportunities for CentralNic.
CentralNic has proven its ability to identify and exploit growth
opportunities in the domain name industry, by winning clients,
launching new businesses and successfully acquiring and
integrating other businesses. This dynamic and agile approach
to a rapidly evolving market has driven CentralNic’s 71%
revenue growth in 2015, and we fully anticipate it will continue
to serve the Group equally well in the future.
Ben Crawford, Chief Executive
25 May 2016
