 In 2015 the Group focused on extending its retail presence,
completing the substantial acquisition of the Instra Group shortly
after the end of the year. This has enabled the Group to scale
up significantly as well as acquiring capability and access to key
market segments across multiple territories. This presents a
significant advancement towards achieving our Strategy –
namely to grow quickly by providing domain names and
related internet services to growth markets.
Mike Turner Chairman
In September 2015 I was delighted to accept the role of Chairman
of the CentralNic Group, and since that date I have been pleased
to see the Group’s transition into a larger and more diverse
business, notably with a significant retail presence. At this stage
of the Group’s development, in a consolidating market,
step-changes in scale are clearly attractive as we seek to improve
the Group’s capabilities and quality of earnings, creating and
maintaining value for our shareholders.
2015 was a positive year for the Group, with progress made in
terms of increasing the scale of the business. While the Instra
Group acquisition was completed in early January 2016, much
of the diligence had been completed during the second half of
2015, culminating in the fund raising and General Meeting that
took place at the end of the year. I was delighted to see the
Group execute this acquisition, with high levels of support from
shareholders and other stakeholders. The Instra Group
acquisition is transformational for the Group, providing access to
new markets, additional products, a strong customer base, well
established brands and an exciting white label offering. Along
with my Board colleagues, I look forward to delivering the
opportunities provided by the acquisition.
It was also noteworthy that our Retail Division’s Internet.BS, a
domain retailer which CentralNic acquired in June 2014, enjoyed
21% organic revenue growth in 2015, its first full year of earnings
under CentralNic. Part of the strategy for Internet.BS was to
expand the range of products offered to customers, in particular
as new generic Top-Level Domains were launched onto the
market. In total 49 new TLDs were added to the Internet BS
online store during the year, with pleasing results.
In 2015 the roll out of the new Top-Level Domains accelerated.
This is the largest change in the industry since the earliest days
of the internet, and it means there are more choices for domain
name consumers than ever before. Indeed it is one of the reasons
that expansion of our retail business is strategically attractive
given so many different domains to supply.
Our wholesale business also benefitted from the expansion,
with 14 new gTLDs launched during 2015. Alongside
these launches, the .xyz domain continued occupying the
market-leading position by volume, with CentralNic’s systems
and processes scaling admirably to cater for very high levels
of demand, especially from Asian markets.
Chairman’s statement
8 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2015 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2015 9
I was very pleased to welcome new Board members shortly after
my own appointment, namely new Executive Director and CEO of
the Retail Division, Desleigh Jameson from Instra Group, as well as a
new Non-Executive Director, Iain McDonald, who is also now the
Audit Committee Chair. These appointments have strengthened the
Board and its sub-committees, which I see as vital to ensuring the
business is well governed. I would also like to thank former Board
members, Robert Pooke and my predecessor, John Swingewood,
for their services to the business over the preceding years.
I believe it is important to regularly review the Group’s strategy,
to ensure it remains best-suited in a rapidly evolving business
environment to deliver our ambitious growth plans while striving for
performance improvements. As our markets, capabilities and
products evolve so must our strategy and I look forward to working
with the Board and the Executives to realise our strategic goals
and objectives, not least to ensure we maintain focus on the
opportunities of most value to the Group as well as managing a
business of growing scale.
Performance
I am pleased to report that the Group’s financial performance was
in line with expectations, with a further year of significant growth in
revenues and Adjusted EBITDA.
The Group’s net revenue grew by over 70%, reflecting a full year of
revenues from a growing Internet.BS, trading valuable premium
domain names on the secondary market and steady organic
growth in the wholesale business. Adjusted EBITDA also grew by
89% to £3.25m (2014: £1.72m reflecting the growth in revenues.
Net cashflow from operating activities improved to £5.69m
(2014: £1.41m) reflecting the working capital dynamics associated
with the new Top-Level Domains and the strong cash-generative
business model.
In terms of divisional performance, it was particularly encouraging to
see the retail business revenues growing to £3.41m, an increase of
120% over the prior year (2014: £1.55m) or 21% on a proforma
basis. The growth included the first full year of Internet.BS revenues
combining with growth in the underlying run rate, boosted by strong
demand for .com domain names and the addition of market-leading
new gTLDs such as .xyz and .site. This was pleasing in the context
of a market which continues to exhibit low levels of awareness of
the new domain names available.
The Group’s Enterprise Division also continued to make
progress, with substantial premium domain name sales
combining with the launch of our clients’ Dot Brand Top-Level
Domains and a significant software licence sale to a
Telecommunications operator, to deploy for their new Dot Brand
domain registry. The Board regards larger corporates as an
attractive segment, where we believe the Group can add
considerable value in satisfying a number of corporate clients’
domain name requirements. This segment will form a key
focus for the business in the coming years.
The year also saw the first sale of the DomiNIC Domain
Management software under CentralNic’s ownership, a modest
sale to a banking institution to assist them in securely managing
their domain portfolio. Progress with DomiNIC has been slower
than expected in terms of converting a pipeline of opportunities
and is an area of focus for the Board. Unlocking the potential
of DomiNIC should be further enabled by the acquisition of
dnsXperts UG that we completed during 2015, the developers/
implementers of the DomiNIC software.
In the wholesale business, it was encouraging to see net revenue
growing to £3.13m, an increase of 10% compared to the previous
year (2014: £2.83m). The mix of business in this division continues
to evolve, with higher volumes coming from the new gTLDs but
with a lower average sale price than the lower volume SLDs. A
balanced portfolio approach is required, while recognizing that
market demand is more geared to the generic Top-Level Domains,
such as .xyz and .website. We recognize the need to continue our
successful strategy of scaling up activity levels in this division to
sustain growth. Our ability to scale proves we are a strong
competitor, which should serve us well in the potential future
application rounds of new gTLDs.
Dividend
While it remains the intention of the Group to generate income
returns for investors, in the future as part of a progressive and
commercially prudent dividend policy, due to the continued
expansion opportunities within the sector the Directors do not
propose a final dividend in 2015.
Outlook
The outlook is encouraging, with the continuing roll out of new
Top-Level Domains and enduring demand for established generic
and country code Top-Level Domains presenting the Group with
retail and wholesale opportunities across the majority of the world’s
markets. Indeed, while the world’s internet users are still less
than half of the global population, the industry is set to continue
growing, especially with increasing access to mobile data devices
across emerging geographic territories.
While it is probably fair to say there is an ongoing “awareness
shortfall” regarding the additional consumer choices presented by
the new Top-Level Domains, adoption in the year by high profile
brands, such as Google’s new parent Alphabet who adopted
abc.xyz, did stimulate additional demand for .xyz domain names
as well as media interest. We would expect further coverage
in the future as other so called “super brands” start launching
and using their own TLDs.
The acquisition of the Instra Group brought a step change in
Group revenues and resources from January 2016. The Group
recognises the need to integrate the businesses well, in turn
delivering synergies and generating new revenue streams as
well as benefitting from exposure to faster growing developing
geographic markets. 10 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2015
The Group is also focused on domain-related services for larger
corporate customers in its Enterprise Division. It will be a high
priority item for the business to unlock the potential of the
corporate market segment for domain names and related services.
The amount of change in the business is significant, with activity
levels high across each of our three divisions and with our mergers
and acquisitions programme continuing to bring considerable
benefits and present new and interesting opportunities to the
Group. I would like to take this opportunity to thank staff across the
enlarged Group for their dedication to CentralNic and for the
passion they have for their industry. I would also particularly like to
thank our existing and new investors who have supported our
team during a transformational period for the Group.
There is still work to be done to transform our business but we
have demonstrated positive steps with the acquisition and
integration of Instra.
Assuming continued progress in all areas of our business, at this
stage of the year we remain confident in the outlook for 2016. 
Mike Turner Chairman
25 May 2016
Chairman’s statement continued
