 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
10
During 2015 Centamin has maintained 
its strategic focus on generating 
shareholder returns and value‑accretive 
growth, despite the continued gold 
price weakness and widespread 
challenges across the industry. 
Our flagship Sukari Gold Mine has 
continued to deliver substantial free 
cash flows, driven by a sixth successive 
year of production growth and industry 
competitive costs.
The strong performance of our core 
asset, together with the Company’s 
robust financial position, allowed 
the board of directors to approve an 
interim 2015 payment of 0.97 US cents 
per share (versus a 2014 interim 
payment of 0.87 US cents per share). 
I am now pleased to announce 
the approval of a final dividend for 
2015 of 1.97 US cents per share. 
This represents a full year payout of 
approximately US$33.7 million, which 
sits at the top end of our dividend 
policy to pay out 15‑30% of our net 
free cash flow.
As noted at the beginning of the 
year, the open pit operation at Sukari 
progressed through the next stage 
of pit development in line with the 
long‑term mine plan, resulting in 
below reserve‑average grades during 
much of 2015. The underground 
and processing operations offset 
these lower grades from the open 
pit in the first half of the year, with 
above‑forecast levels of productivity 
driving gold production in excess of 
our initial guidance. Sukari continued 
to perform well during the second 
half, and full‑year production of 
439,072 ounces was within the 
revised guidance range of 430,000 to 
440,000 ounces (originally 420,000 
ounces). There was a strong end to 
the year as the fourth quarter saw 
plant throughput reach our minimum 
expected long‑term rate of 11 million 
tonnes per annum, being 10% above 
nameplate capacity.
Full‑year cash operating costs 
improved to US$713 per ounce from 
US$729 per ounce in 2014, mainly 
driven by the decrease in fuel price, 
although marginally above guidance of 
US$700 per ounce despite the higher 
production than originally forecast. 
It is pleasing to note the fourth quarter 
cash operating cost of US$667 per 
ounce, which points towards the 
potential for Sukari to deliver 
highly‑competitive cash margins, 
as productivity and cost efficiencies 
are the focus over the coming years. 
All‑in sustaining costs (“AISC”) of 
US$885 per ounce were below our 
original forecast of US$950 per ounce, 
mainly due to the rescheduling of 
certain sustaining capital cost items, 
as highlighted in the third quarter 
results statement, as well as the 
higher production.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Our growth strategy seeks to create 
shareholder value by taking projects 
through the mining value chain: 
exploration, development and 
operations.
josef el-raghy Chairman Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
11
Blast hole drill rigs in  
place in the open pit
In May 2015, Centamin detailed 
its five‑year production and cost 
guidance following completion of 
construction and commissioning of 
the Stage 4 plant expansion in the 
prior year. A seventh year of growth is 
forecast for 2016, with production of 
470,000 ounces at a cash operating 
cost of US$680 per ounce and AISC 
of US$900 per ounce. Further growth 
is expected in 2017 with an annual 
production rate of approximately 
500,000 ounces per annum, with 
AISC continuing to trend downwards 
below US$900 per ounce. Continued 
optimisation and increases in 
productivity over the medium term, 
in particular within the processing and 
underground mining operations, offer 
good potential for further production 
growth and reductions in cash costs 
and AISC. 
2015 revenues of US$508 million were 
up 8% year‑on‑year as an 8% fall in 
realised gold prices were offset by a 
17% increase in gold sales. EBITDA 
decreased by 9% to US$152 million, 
mainly due to a reduction of gross 
operating margin as a result of 
the drop in gold price, and also 
an increased cost associated with 
changes in production inventories.
Profit before tax of US$58.4 million 
was down 28% on 2014 and earnings 
per share for 2015 was 4.51 US cents, 
compared with 7.21 US cents in 2014. 
The reduction in profit was mainly due 
to the decreased operating margin and 
also a US$6.3 million write‑off following 
our decision towards the end of the 
year to cease exploration in Ethiopia. 
During the year the Company incurred 
an income tax charge of US$6.8 million 
in relation to foreign exchange gains 
on its cash holdings within Australia.
Centamin remains committed to its 
policy of being 100% exposed to 
the gold price through its unhedged 
position, and its balance sheet remains 
strong with zero debt. We ended the 
year with US$230.7 million in cash, 
bullion on hand, gold sales receivables 
and available‑for‑sale financial assets. 
This is a material increase over the 
US$162.8 million at the end of 2014 
and highlights the potential of the 
business to continue self‑funding its 
next stages of growth from cash flows 
whilst maintaining a commitment to 
dividend payments.
Centamin made continued progress 
during 2015 in developing its 
longer‑term growth objectives. 
At Sukari, the total combined 
open pit and underground mineral 
reserve estimate increased, net 
of mining depletion, by 7% to 
8.8Moz, continuing to support our 
expectation for a mine life in excess 
of 20 years. Whilst the increase was 
partly due to lower operating costs 
associated with reduced fuel prices, 
it is pleasing to note that drilling from 
underground continues to improve 
the resource categories of our gold 
asset base and thereby increases 
the underground component of the 
reserve. The underground operation 
is an important value‑driver for our 
business and we expect further 
substantial growth of the reserve over 
the coming years as development and 
exploration continues. Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
12
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT continued
With the downturn in gold prices 
having resulted in a significant 
curtailment of industry spending on 
exploration, Centamin is in a strong 
position to continue investing in its 
long‑term growth throughout the 
cycle. Beyond Sukari we are focused 
on our extensive licence holdings 
within Burkina Faso and Côte d’Ivoire. 
Whilst these districts hold potential for 
several deposit types, our immediate 
objective is to discover and define 
areas of near‑surface and high‑grade 
economic mineralisation. In this 
respect, positive results during 2015 
have seen a number of priority areas 
emerge which will remain the focus for 
resource growth during 2016. I look 
forward to updating you further in due 
course with our progress in unlocking 
the Company’s next stage of growth 
from these highly prospective regions.
Whilst disciplined and sustainable 
growth on our existing projects remains 
a key focus, we continue to evaluate 
opportunities to grow through the 
acquisition of projects which offer the 
potential for the Company to deliver 
on its strategic objectives.
Developments in the two litigation 
actions, Diesel Fuel Oil and Concession 
Agreement, are described in further 
detail in note 20 to the financial 
statements. In respect of the latter, the 
Company continues to believe that 
it has a strong legal position and, in 
addition, that it will ultimately benefit 
from law no. 32 of 2014, which came 
into force in April 2014 and which 
restricts the capacity for third parties to 
challenge any contractual agreement 
between the Egyptian government 
and an investor. This law, whilst in force 
and ratified by the new parliament, is 
currently under review by the Supreme 
Constitutional Court of Egypt. 
After a series of delays and 
adjournments, the Concession 
Agreement appeal has now been set 
down for judgment on 24 May 2016. 
If the judgment is a final judgment, the 
Company expects it will be in its favour. 
However, it has been advised that 
the Egyptian legal system allows for 
the possibility of an interim judgment 
staying the appeal until the Supreme 
Constitutional Court has ruled on the 
validity of law no. 32. 
The group continues to benefit from 
the full support of the Ministry of 
Petroleum and the Egyptian Mineral 
and Resources Authority (“EMRA”), 
both in the Concession Agreement 
appeal and at the operational level. 
As part of our long‑term strategy, we 
look forward to continuing to share the 
benefits of the Company’s substantial 
investment in Egypt as the Sukari 
operation sets the stage for a new era 
of gold mining in the country.
Centamin is in a strong position to continue investing 
in its long‑term growth throughout the cycle. Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
Centamin plc Annual report 2015 
strategic report
13
At the start of the year, Andrew Pardey 
was appointed as chief executive 
officer (“CEO”) and joined the board 
as an executive director from 1 
February 2015. Andrew has been a 
driving force behind Sukari’s growth 
into one of the world’s leading gold 
mines and Centamin’s development 
from a junior exploration company into 
one of the largest gold producers in 
North Africa. I am pleased to report 
that during Andrew’s first year as 
CEO, the Company has continued 
to develop and has realised its next 
stages of growth, whilst maintaining 
its strategic focus on cash flows, 
shareholder returns and social 
responsibility.
I would also like to take this 
opportunity to welcome Ross Jerrard 
as our new chief financial officer 
(“CFO”), effective 18 April 2016. 
Ross joins Centamin from Deloitte 
Australia, where he was a partner 
with over twenty‑two years’ audit and 
advisory experience, specialising in 
the resources industry. He has worked 
in southern Africa and the Middle 
East, including a three‑and‑a‑half‑year 
period based in Egypt, servicing 
a range of multinational and 
natural resources companies. This 
appointment follows the resignation 
of Pierre louw, who will hand over 
responsibilities in April 2016. We thank 
Pierre for his service and wish him all 
the best in his future endeavours.
I would like to close by thanking all 
those at Sukari, in Alexandria, Burkina 
Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Jersey and Perth 
for their efforts in 2015 as Centamin 
continued on its journey to becoming 
an established, cash‑generative and 
growing gold producer.
Your Company remains well positioned 
to deliver outstanding shareholder 
returns in the coming years. I look 
forward to updating you further 
over the course of 2016, and would 
welcome you to join us at our AGM, 
which this year will be held in Jersey 
on 11 May 2016.
This strategic review, progress on 
strategy, key performance indicators 
and business model together form 
the strategic report, which has been 
approved by the board of directors.
By order of the board for and on behalf 
of Centamin plc.
josef el-raghy
Chairman
21 March 2016
open pit at Sukari
