 Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015 12
Phil Caldwell
C h i e f 	 E x ecu t i v e 	 O f fic e r 	
It has been an exciting year for us as well as a demanding one, working 
with some of the world’s best companies in Japan and South Korea, 
which set extremely high standards for the performance of fuel cell 
technology. As the energy sector evolves and the distributed generation 
market matures, we have continued to invest in process and technical 
innovation in pursuit of our commercial aspirations, building the 
necessary capability, capacity and competence to compete on the global 
stage. It is only in doing so that we can meet the ambition we have for 
Ceres in establishing the Steel Cell as the standard for Solid Oxide Fuel 
Cell (SOFC) technology in the industry. 
The market opportunity for our Steel Cell technology is greater than ever 
as we see significant deployment of fuel cells in our primary target 
markets in Japan, South Korea and the US. The Steel Cell enables mass 
market adoption of fuel cells as it provides all of the performance of the 
established older generation fuel cells in the industry, but with a unique 
robustness to cycling and offers customers a low cost solution that can 
be manufactured using standard techniques and commodity materials. 
The ability to manufacture ceramics on steel is unique to Ceres in the 
industry and key to our licensing strategy.
We therefore find ourselves exclusively positioned in having a disruptive low 
cost next generation Steel Cell technology, which is available to all power 
system companies in the sector . This allows us to embed the technology into 
as many applications and geographies as possible with the common building 
block of the Steel Cell at the core of future power systems. 
Whilst we continue to demonstrate the low cost potential to existing 
partners for the residential market, we have also made significant 
technical progress over the past year which will enable us to widen the 
applicability of this technology to higher-power systems for the light-
commercial and power only sectors, broadening our target markets and 
ultimately the value we can create for our shareholders.
Chief Executive’s statement
We have reached a point now in the 
technology’s maturity where we are able 
to engage with more customers globally… 
in response to increasing interest in the 
Steel Cell for a variety of applications Strategic Report
13 Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015
Commercial
Over the past year we have focused on two areas in our customer 
engagements: firstly demonstrating that this relatively new and 
disruptive technology is mature enough for commercialisation by leading 
power system companies; secondly, that it has the potential to increase 
both in efficiency and power density to enable its application to other 
product applications beyond our residential platform. 
We have reached a point now in the technology’s maturity where we are 
able to engage with more customers globally, across a range of 
geographies, in response to increasing interest in the Steel Cell for a 
variety of applications.
In order to best realise this market potential we are investing in our 
commercial team globally and I am pleased to welcome Tony Cochrane to 
the business as Chief Commercial Officer. Brought in to spearhead our 
commercial activities, Tony has considerable experience in the fuel cell 
sector from his time in Ballard Power Systems, where he led the 
commercialisation of their Stationary Power business. Tony is based in 
North America, further boosting access to this market segment. 
Expanding our presence and platform in Asia and building on the 
progress made through our local office in Japan, we recently opened an 
office in Seoul, South Korea. Forecast as having revenue potential of 
US$15bn alone by 2022
1
, South Korea is a key target market for us, both 
to support our existing business relationships and to address further 
opportunities there. 
Progress on partnerships
Working to the highest customer standards, we have seen successful 
deployment this year of our technology across several different markets, 
such that in Japan, South Korea and the UK, we have met all of the 
technical requirements set for the technology to date. 
In Japan: In October last year, we announced a Joint Development with a 
leading Japanese power system company and I am pleased to say we 
have met all our objectives after two years of working together and we 
expect to broaden this relationship in the near future.
We are also progressing further evaluations with several other Japanese 
companies for both residential and light-commercial applications and we 
have a healthy pipeline of new opportunities. 
In South Korea: We successfully completed all testing at KD Navien’s 
(KDN) facility in Seoul, under the Technology Assessment Agreement, 
including aggressive accelerated testing for cycleability and steady state 
running. At KDN’s request we have provided an additional system to 
provide parallel testing for both steady state and cycleability, as extended 
validation. 
 
In the UK: IE CHP (a joint venture between SSE and Intelligent Energy) 
completed system testing of the technology in a simulated typical UK 
home environment, demonstrating the potential benefits for a UK 
customer. We expect to undergo further assessments of the technology 
in the UK this year. 
 
1 Stationary Fuel Cells: Global Market Analysis and Forecasts, 2014, Navigant Research. Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015 14
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Improvements in performance, robustness and cost 
result in an improved economic payback for the end user, 
at an affordable price point and serve to strengthen our 
USP and competitive position
Overall, I am satisfied with the commercial progress 
this year, even though this has not translated into 
revenue growth yet, as some of our customer 
evaluations have extended longer than anticipated. In 
the coming year, I expect we shall see an increasing 
number of these pipeline opportunities come through 
as new commercial relationships, in addition to the 
continued progress shown with our existing partners.
Technology
Internal and external validation of our technology has 
been a key focus over the past year. It is important to 
our customers that we can evidence lifetime and 
robustness equivalent to more established, early 
generation fuel cell technologies, while simultaneously 
demonstrating the significant uplift in performance 
and low cost of the Steel Cell. This has been a 
Company-wide effort and called for significant 
additional investment in our test and operations 
capability.
The technical progress we have made resulted in the 
recent release of our V3 technology to customers 
following extensive internal testing and validation 
proving durability and lifetime through accelerated 
and steady state testing. This validation included 
multiple stack testing over 10,000 hours achieving 
degradation rates equivalent to those required for 
product life of over 7 years and comparable to fuel cell 
competitors in Japan. Stack tests on earlier 
generations of the technology also surpassed 20,000 
hours providing greater confidence in the long lifetime 
potential of the Steel Cell technology. 
With robustness to cycling representing another key 
differentiator over conventional early generation 
SOFC, we have also completed aggressive accelerated 
testing (including redox and thermal cycling tests) 
equivalent to 10+ years of performance. 
We are now working on our V4 release which is due to 
reach customers in 2016 and serves two primary 
purposes: preparing the technology for scale-up, as 
well as improving performance and reducing cost 
further.
In terms of performance, high electrical efficiency 
relative to other technologies, particularly at small 
scale, is a key driver for the adoption of SOFC 
technology. We have already demonstrated 
performance equivalent to the best available systems 
in Japan and aim to achieve over 50% net electrical 
efficiency in the next year. 
Such performance not only enhances the already 
significant benefit to the residential consumer, but 
more importantly, widens the potential of the 
technology to other markets such as power-only and 
back-up power applications for the commercial and 
light-industrial business sectors. 
The technology team has also been continuously 
improving the power output of the Steel Cell. We have 
shown power density improvements of 40% in the 
year and expect this to translate into lower-cost 
product offerings to customers in future releases of 
our technology. 
At a system level we have also made great progress 
and expect to release the latest version of our 
prototype system architecture, the Steel Gen, which is 
fully compliant with all emission standards and 
probably the most compact SOFC system design 
available. This meets the key requirements to access 
the wider markets for installations in high-rise 
apartments in Asia. 
In response to customer interest in higher-power 
products for light-commercial applications (such as 
the commercial market of 5-10kW power-only 
products), we have begun to develop multi-kW 
systems and I anticipate further progress in this area 
during the year. 
All of the above improvements in performance, 
robustness and cost result in an improved economic 
payback for the end user, at an affordable price point 
and serve to strengthen our USP and competitive 
position. Strategic Report
Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015 15
Mark Selby
C h i e f 	 T ec hno l o g y 	 O f fic e r 	
We have already 
demonstrated 
performance equivalent 
to the best available 
systems in Japan and 
aim to achieve over 50% 
net electrical efficiency 
in the next year. Such 
performance ... widens 
the potential of the 
technology to other 
markets
T echnology milestones
Hitting targets and delivering on objectives across all 
measures of performance, robustness and cost, in the past 
year we have successfully reached and passed multiple 
technology milestones.
Performance: 
• Demonstrated 47% net electrical efficiency in a 
prototype CHP product, equivalent to the highest 
performance achieved by competing high-cost systems 
in Japan.
• Developing a system architecture 25% lighter and 25% 
more compact than our current design, which is fully 
compliant with global emissions standards.
Robustness: 
• Released V3 technology to customers and over 10,000 
hour steady state tests with extremely low degradation 
rates, equating to a greater than 7-year product life. 
• Completed aggressive accelerated testing (including 
redox and thermal cycling tests) equivalent to 10+ years 
of performance. 
Cost:
• V4 technology is on track for release in 2016 and serves 
two key purposes: as well as improving performance, it 
prepares the technology for scale-up and reduces cost 
• Power density improvements of 40% shown at R&D 
stage are expected to translate to lower-cost products 
to customers in future releases of our technology. Our 
roadmap is to double power density by 2020, which will 
further reduce the overall stack and system cost. Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015 16
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Operations and manufacturing
We are competing with – and in some instances 
looking to partner with – a number of the largest 
ceramics companies in the world, hence the quality 
and scalability of our manufacturing processes is key 
and represents a source of great commercial value. 
Accordingly, we continue to invest in our 
manufacturing processes in Horsham which are 
unique to Ceres and a valuable asset.
I am also very pleased to have strengthened our team 
with the recent addition of James Falla as Chief 
Operating Officer. James joins Ceres with a track 
record in establishing operations in Asia for leading 
Tier 1 automotive companies. 
Significant progress has been made on production 
scale-up projects, designed to demonstrate and 
validate production processes suitable for high-
volume fuel cell manufacture. These are on track for 
delivery early next year through the V4 programme.
A good example of progress is the development of a 
high-speed screen print line which has been procured 
and part funded with an Innovate UK grant. Print-
cycle time will reduce from 30 seconds to just 3 
seconds. 
In an example of innovation driving down costs still 
further, the latest cell design release also incorporates 
a change to the electrolyte deposition from spraying 
to screen printing. This key technical advance serves 
to replace a cost-intensive process with a faster, more 
economical and controllable printing process.
Looking ahead, we are in discussions with several 
manufacturing partners to scale the business in line 
with OEM demand with a particular focus on Asia as a 
first market. 
Financial
Ceres is well financed to deliver its business plan, 
having raised £19.6 million in equity, mostly from new 
investors at the start of the financial year, in an 
oversubscribed private placing. The Company ends 
the year with £18.2 million in cash and cash 
equivalents and short-term investments  
(2014: £7.7 million).
During the year equity free cash outflow (EFCF)
1
 was 
£9.1 million (2014: £7.7 million). This planned increase 
was driven predominantly by the Company’s 
investment in its people and technology development, 
as it increased its average number of employees from 
72 to 96 and incurred recurring ‘cash operating costs’
2
 
of £10.5 million (2014: £8.2 million). EFCF was also 
influenced by additions to the Group’s test and 
manufacturing infrastructure as it incurred £1.2 
million capital expenditure (2014: £0.5 million). 
The Company’s commercial progress has not 
translated directly into the revenue streams that we 
expected in the year. As a result our underlying 
revenue
3
, which is primarily generated from customer 
evaluation and joint development agreements,  
and other operating income, fell in the year from  
£1.1 million to £0.9 million. 
We continue to make use of available government 
grants, which remain flat at £0.6 million, while 
underlying revenue fell from £0.5 million to  
£0.3 million
3
. Overall revenue has declined to  
£0.3 million (2014: £1.2 million) as in 2014 the  
Group released £0.7 million of deferred revenue  
to the income statement due to the ending of a  
legacy agreement with Bord Gais Eirann. 
An important form of funding to the business  
comes in the form of R&D tax credits. We received 
£1.2 million of tax credit relating to the prior year 
within the year (2014: £1.0 million) and we aim to 
increase this going forward in line with the R&D 
activity of the business. 
The Company’s loss for the financial year rose from 
£7.4 million in 2014 to £10.0 million, in line with 
internal expectations as we have invested significantly 
in test, validation and engineering capability as we 
grow the business. As the weighted average number 
of shares in issue increased from 537 million to  
753 million, the loss per ordinary share decreased 
from 1.38p to 1.33p.
Outlook
Over the past year we have deployed our technology 
in Japan, South Korea and the UK, completing all 
testing to date successfully, adding to our growing 
reputation in the industry. 
This has required us to demonstrate considerable 
maturity as an organisation in order to compete with 
some of the world-leading ceramics companies and 
engage with global power systems players.
We have hit and surpassed key technical milestones, 
with the highlight being the release of the latest 
version of our cell and system technology to 
customers. In order to do this we have invested in 
manufacturing and test capabilities in Horsham and 
also significantly in key hires for the team, broadening 
and deepening our capabilities and competences.  Strategic Report
Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2015 17
Looking ahead I expect to convert a number of our 
evaluation initiatives into significant development 
programmes and increase the number of partners we 
have in all stages of engagement. We continue to build 
relationships with a focus on securing the right 
strategic partners and I expect to announce further 
progress in our key relationships in the near future. 
In particular, we shall target securing partners for new 
applications outside of our traditional residential 
market and plan to demonstrate a multi-kW platform 
capability in the coming year which will open up new 
markets based on the common platform of the Steel 
Cell technology. 
As a technology company we expect to continuously 
improve our technology in accordance with our 
roadmap. Over the coming year I expect to announce 
further improvements at both core technology and 
system level with a focus on increasing power and 
efficiency as we look to improve further the economic 
proposition to our customers. 
I should like to thank the whole team at Ceres for their 
continued focus and hard work over the year, without 
which this progress would not have been possible. I 
believe we now have a great team in place and we are 
at a point where our investment in the core 
technology will come through into our customer 
programmes. 
The Strategic Report, which includes the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Statement, was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 6 October 2015 and signed on 
its behalf by:
Phil Caldwell
Chief Executive Officer
6 October 2015
1		 E q u i t y	f r e e	c a s h	fl o w	( E F C F )	i s	t h e	n e t	c h a n g e	i n	c a s h	a n d	c a s h	
e q u i v a l e n t s	i n	t h e	y e a r	l e s s	n e t	c a s h	g e n e r a t e d	f r o m	fi n a n c i n g	
activities less the movement in short-term investments.
2  Cash operating costs being operating costs less depreciation and 
share payments charge.
3  Underlying revenue is total revenue less the release of deferred 
revenue relating to historic agreements.
