 03 Chairman’s statement  
 
Chairman’s statement 
 
This is my first report as Bango's Chairman, having been 
appointed on 1 April 2011, following the retirement of Lindsay 
Bury. The Board would like to thank Lindsay for his contribution to 
Bango over the past 10 years and wishes him well in his 
retirement. 
The year was one of transition for both Bango and the market it 
serves. Since inception, Bango has applied its technology and 
marketing across all internet enabled phones. To date, the 
majority of these were so called ‘feature phones’ which had 
limited local processing power and therefore the most common 
content types were relatively low value items such as ringtones, 
short videos and simple games.  
Traditionally, smartphones, with much richer capabilities, touch 
interfaces and a powerful operating system, such as the iPhone, 
occupied a smaller niche due to their high price. However, during 
the last year or so, with the increasing success of Apple, 
BlackBerry and Android powered devices, and lower prices for 
entry level models it is becoming clear that smartphones are set to 
be a major, if not the dominant, segment of the market.  
According to IDC, the global smartphone market will grow by 55 
percent in 2011 to 472 million units as people upgrade from 
feature phones to smartphones. Gartner reported that in Q1 2011, 
smartphones accounted for 23.6 percent of overall sales of 428 
million mobile phones, an increase of 85 percent year-on-year. 
During the year Bango began a transition in its business to focus 
on this smartphone opportunity. It focused on providing its 
technology and relationships to major ‘app stores’ providing 
applications for smartphones and to major publishers targeting 
smartphones with valuable services and applications.  
Bango serves a large and growing market. The worldwide mobile 
content market is expected to surpass $64 billion by 2012, up 
from $20 billion in 2007, according to Juniper Research. In 
2009, mobile application download revenue exceeded $4.2 
billion, reports Gartner, with a prediction of revenue growing to 
$29.5 billion by the end of 2013. Major mobile phone 
manufacturers, mobile operators and internet businesses are 
driving the uptake of the mobile internet. 
Bango has unique and proven technology which is at the heart of 
its payment network. Unlike some ‘mobile payment’ companies, 
which focus on payment for content delivered to a PC from a 
user’s phone bill, Bango focuses on services and apps purchased 
on and delivered to the mobile device.   
Coupled with mobile operator relationships and traction with the 
largest players in the industry, this gives Bango, a competitive 
advantage. Bango technology handles the current generation of 
downloadable apps, with charging for download during the use of 
the application and subscription based services. Bango technology 
also works with newer HTML5 web technology which is expected 
to become more important in the coming years. 
With major players such as Apple, Google and Microsoft battling to 
gain a position in this key marketplace, the competitive pressures 
on app stores to perform effectively should drive more 
opportunities for Bango. 
During the year, Bango appointed Rudy Berger as a Non-Executive 
Director. He has extensive relevant experience in strategic 
planning and international business development, and is based in 
Silicon Valley. Rudy's experience and independent perspective has 
already proved valuable as Bango's relationships with larger 
companies on the US west coast become increasingly significant. 
I would like to thank Bango's employees and partners for their 
unswerving efforts to make Bango a key player in this exciting, 
fast-growing, global industry. 
David Sear 
Chairman
