 CEO’s statement 04 
 
CEO’s statement 
 
In line with Bango's strategy to focus on smartphones, a key 
development for the year has been the success and momentum 
we are experiencing in enabling mobile operator payments for 
‘mobile applications’ (apps) for smartphone users.  
Bango is now selling content to BlackBerry users in many 
countries by enabling them to buy applications in the 
BlackBerry App Store (called ‘BlackBerry App World’) using 
their mobile phone bill. This increases the value of sales 
through BlackBerry App World, giving developers a stronger 
motivation to target the BlackBerry platform. Bango is 
expanding this capability across dozens of new mobile 
operators around the world.  
The ability of the Bango system to provide a common 
connection point to dozens of diverse billing systems from 
mobile operators around the world, coupled with the automated 
settlement, currency and tax management, risk management 
and reporting systems to deliver payments to thousands of 
content providers is a powerful tool for any business building an 
app store. 
End user spend from the smartphone and app store sector grew 
during the year, but not enough to offset the decline in the 
feature phone market over the year. Correspondingly, total end 
user spending and the gross margin on that revenue declined 
over the year. However, as app store revenues continued to 
accelerate, total end user spend returned to growth in May and 
has continued to grow since then. 
Bango relationship with BlackBerry and additional 
app stores  
Bango provides mobile network operator (''carrier'') billing for 
BlackBerry App World. The first mobile operator, AT&T, went 
live towards the end of the first half, enabling BlackBerry 
application developers to benefit from increased revenues. 
During the second half, Bango connected and commissioned 
many new mobile operators, both in its pool of existing 
connections, such as Vodafone UK and T-Mobile USA and new 
connections, and a small number of these were active at the 
year end.  
In January 2011 the overall value of sales through the 
BlackBerry App World surpassed any one of Bango's traditional 
content providers. As of June 2011 they have grown to more 
than our top three traditional content providers combined.  
Shortly after the year end, Bango announced its second major 
app store agreement - providing operator billing for the Opera 
Mobile Store. This is provided as part of Opera’s browser to 
more than 100 million users around the world. 
App stores can use any of the active Bango mobile operator 
billing integrations and Bango connects new mobile operators 
as required for our app store customers. More than 60 
additional mobile operator integrations are now in progress. The 
integrations involve not only technical connection, but also may 
involve three way commercials involving the operator, Bango 
and the app store. The processes for cash collection, tax 
treatments and reconciliation are also set up in Bango's 
automatic systems to ensure high volumes of transactions can 
be processed at low cost.  
Bango is actively progressing significant opportunities with 
additional app store providers, which will also have benefits for 
our other customers, including RIM and traditional content 
providers, as Bango scales out into other territories with these 
new prospects. Bango payment technology will soon appear in 
new markets such as Indonesia, Mexico and the Middle East, 
markets where mobile content is a passion for the young mobile 
customer base. 
We have been extremely encouraged by the quick uptake of 
Bango's payment platform by BlackBerry app developers, the 
success that BlackBerry developers are seeing on this important 
smartphone platform, and the interest in Bango technology 
from other large industry players. 
A wide range of applications are being sold. These include 
business tools and services, communications and time 
management utilities and a broad range of eBooks and audio 
books, alongside a wide selection of games. 
Bango looks forward to being able to update the market as 
these relationships develop. 
Sales of content for feature phones 
The sales of mobile content and services to primarily feature 
phone users has, as previously discussed, been impacted by 
industry factors - primarily relating to consumer refund policies 
of US mobile operators. Bango believes that the opportunity for 
growth in this market is limited, and therefore action has been 
taken to reduce costs in this area while still retaining the 
capacity to support our largest content providers. This will 
ensure that this sector of the business generates cash and 
profit going forward. 
Bango's largest traditional content providers in the feature 
phone sector are also consolidating and shifting to address the 
smartphone opportunity. The ‘long tail’ of smaller content 
providers is being directed towards the app stores where 
Bango's payment services are usable indirectly at lower cost to 
Bango.  
The growth of Android 
Canalys reported that in Q4 2010, Android powered 
smartphones became the fastest selling with 33% share of 
smartphone shipments, ahead of Nokia (31%) iPhone (16%) 
and BlackBerry (14%). Google provides an app store called 
Android Market for Android, but there are other app stores 
being developed to target the fast growing Android user base. 
iPhone users are restricted by Apple in their choice of content 
and apps, and how they can be marketed and sold, but Android 
enables much more choice and innovation. This represents a 
significant opportunity for Bango. App stores using mobile 
operator billing provided by Bango demonstrate significant 
extra sales volume.  05 CEO’s statement  
 
 
 
Product development  
There have been three areas of activity for Bango product 
development during the year: 
(1) Operational scalability in the payment network 
With increasing numbers of mobile operators connecting to 
Bango, the technology used to manage risk and ensure 
transactions can be processed in volume at very low cost has 
been developed significantly over the year. 
 
(2) New Bango Payment and Analytics services 
New services include innovative ways to identify and 
authenticate Android and other devices to enable secure mobile 
payments and the provision of ‘in-application toolkits’ to enable 
the collection of detailed analytical data from within running 
applications across smartphones including iPhone, Android, 
BlackBerry, Windows Phone 7 and Nokia. In addition, the 
technology has been adapted to better serve larger screen 
‘tablet’ devices such as Apple iPad and BlackBerry Playbook. 
In addition to payments collected by mobile websites, Bango 
has also introduced products to support payment collection 
from within mobile applications (apps). The popularity of 
mobile applications is driving more developers and content 
providers to commit resources to developing mobile 
applications, as another channel to engage with consumers and 
generate revenue. According to Juniper Research, mobile 
application revenues will be worth £25 billion in 2014. 
(3) R&D to support growing transaction volumes and 
numbers of customers 
Bango has deployed new hardware and data-warehouse 
technologies to support increasing usage volumes. New services 
were developed to allow partners, such as RIM, to create 
customer accounts in the Bango system using their sign-up 
processes, to enable rapid on-boarding of thousands of new 
customers to the Bango system without manual involvement at 
Bango. 
Bango regularly reviews procedures, capabilities and scalability 
plans with larger partners and content providers to be able to 
meet their present and future needs. 
As well as expecting considerable growth in revenue from 
smartphones, Bango has seen rapid growth in volumes of 
analytics transactions from our largest customers, with volume 
in March 2011 being 4.3 times higher than in March 2010.  
The current system architecture and data centres are scalable 
to sustained transaction volumes more than ten times those 
being seen today. At the end of 2010 a project was initiated to 
design and plan a transition to a next generation platform that 
will enable Bango to quickly and economically further scale up 
capacity which may be required.  
Financial performance 
Gross revenue in FY2011 reduced by 26% to £19.3m 
compared with the previous year, with revenue in the second 
half of the year at £8.72m compared with £10.6m in the first 
half year. Revenue from outside the UK accounted for 83.5% 
(£16.1m) of total revenue for the year, up from 83.2% 
(£21.7m) in the previous year. 
Gross profit in the second half grew 7% compared with the first 
half, to give a gross profit for the year of £2.49m.  
End user revenue reduced by 29% year on year, 22% half on 
half. Gross profit on end user activity reduced by 48% to 
£0.64m from £1.23m, whilst margin percentage reduced from 
5.0% to 3.7% because the costs of providing connections to 
payment providers, charged to cost of sales, are fixed even if 
sales volumes decrease.  
Gross profit from other fees increased by £0.4m to £1.85m 
reflecting app store revenues and growth in analytics revenues, 
which increased from £0.13m to £0.33m. 
During the second half of the year and after the year end, 
Bango reduced certain sales, marketing and technical support 
functions related to the feature phone business. One time costs 
associated with some of these reductions, recognized in the 
year ending 31 March 2011 amounted to approximately 
£0.12m. The cost saving in the following financial year is 
expected to be £0.3m, ensuring that the legacy feature phone 
business continues to be cash and margin generative. 
The increase in gross profit in the second half and the return to 
an underlying profit - after allowing for the expenses associated 
in acceleration of the transition, recognition of £0.11m of 
profit from mobile operator connections, and a slightly faster 
depreciation rate - demonstrates progress with our newer, larger 
customers. 
Administrative expenses increased by £0.37m (12.3%) to 
£3.22m from £2.85m in the previous year with increased 
depreciation and amortization accounting for £0.15m of the 
increase. 
The loss before tax was £0.84m, compared with the loss of 
£0.25m in FY10, with £0.46m arising in the first half of the 
year and £0.38m in the second half year.  
After an R&D tax credit of £0.22m and payment of US taxes of 
£0.08m, the loss after tax £0.696m.  
The cash used by operating activities for the year was £1.16m 
(£0.04m) broadly in line with the loss for the year plus some 
consumption of positive working capital arising from the 
reduction in end user spend. 
Expenditure on assets totaled £1.11m (£1.04m), including 
£1.03m (£0.88m) on internal R&D mainly on projects relating 
to operational scalability in future periods. 
In January 2011 the Company raised £2.4m before expenses 
by the issue of new ordinary shares at a price of 135 pence per 
share.  
At 31 March 2011 Bango had cash balances of £2.71m 
(£2.74m).  CEO’s statement 06 
 
 
 
Strategy and outlook for FY ending March 2012  
Bango's strategy is to leverage its central position as a 
payments network in the smartphone marketplace and the 
Board believes it is well positioned to benefit from the 
increased level of business activity in this space. With 
considerable technical and commercial investment made to 
date, the Bango platform can handle significant increases in 
transaction volumes without the need for major additional 
capital or operational expenditure.  
Bango expects to see continued revenue growth in both end 
user activity and other fees, driven by an increasing number of 
content providers and a growing volume of transactions from 
existing content providers.  
Bango is supporting RIM to drive the success of the BlackBerry 
App World. Enabling success for thousands of BlackBerry app 
developers brings many benefits to RIM, mobile operators and 
Bango. It is Bango's intention to support Android, iPhone and 
Nokia developers, as well as those on other platforms, either 
directly or through the major app stores. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my gratitude to 
Bango's partners and employees for their continued support. 
Working with mobile operators, content providers, billing 
companies and other commercial partners and investors, Bango 
looks forward to increasing success in the year ahead.  
Ray Anderson  
Chief Executive Officer 
