 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CHINA CENTRAL PROPERTIES LIMITED
Steady Progress
It gives me great pleasure to present the 
second annual report of China Central 
Properties Limited (“CCP” or the 
“Company”). 
The Company was established to invest in 
partially-completed properties in China. 
In the past year, we have continued to 
demonstrate our capability as the leading 
investor in these partially-completed 
property assets and our ability to convert 
them into modern commercial facilities 
and residential towers. 
For the year ended 31 December 2008, 
CCP achieved a turnover of US$326 
million, delivering profit attributable 
to shareholders of US$15.7 million and 
basic earnings per share of US 5.37 cents. 
The Board has approved a final dividend 
of 0.5 pence (approximately US 0.7 cent) 
per share to shareholders whose names 
appear on the Company’s register of 
members at the close of business on 17 
April 2009. The final dividend will be 
paid on 6 May 2009. Together with the 
interim dividend of 1.0 pence, the full 
year dividend amounts to 1.5 pence per 
share (approximately US 2.5 cents). CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The Right Decision at The Right Time
I am pleased to report that your Company ended the year successfully 
with a significant amount of net cash and in a very strong financial 
position that perhaps not many other property businesses can enjoy 
in today’s worldwide financial crisis. 
The strategy set at the time of the AIM listing in June 2007 has 
largely been achieved despite the very challenging market conditions.  
In June 2008, CCP had fully invested the net funds of US$535 
million raised at the IPO in June 2007.  Of the six properties 
injected by Shui On Construction and Materials Limited and other 
joint venture partners into CCP at the time of the AIM listing, the 
Company disposed of three of the projects en bloc during the year, 
namely Huapu Centre and Shengyuan Centre in Beijing, and Xiwang 
Building in Dalian.  Half of Central Point (Phase I) in Chengdu and 
substantially all of the units of Central International Plaza in Qingdao 
have also been sold.  Despite the depressed property market in the 
Chinese Mainland, these properties attracted a number of buyers 
which reflected a recognition of the quality of our products and 
their prime locations. Together, these sales generated a substantial 
and valuable amount of cash inflow and our overall profit target 
was achieved. Currently, excluding the disposed properties, the net 
increment in our portfolio still resulted in a holding of 1,253,000 
sqm of developable space, compared with 473,000 sqm at the time 
of the AIM listing.  
ANNUAL REPORT 2008
5 CHINA CENTRAL PROPERTIES LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Continuing Confidence in China
Throughout the greater part of 2008, austerity 
measures were in force in the Chinese Mainland to 
curb the overheated economy.  However, the severity 
and uncertainty of the global financial crisis in the 
past few months drastically reversed earlier fast growth 
trends.  Growth has declined to a seven-year low of 9% 
in 2008.  There had been a sharp decline in the export 
market with the Chinese government encouraging 
domestic consumption to try and fill the gap in export.  
Equipped with a substantial foreign exchange reserve 
and with operations of major financial institutions 
relatively intact, the Central Government was able to 
respond promptly, relaxed austerities measures and put 
in place stimulus measures across the board. A series 
of macro-economic policy adjustments and a major 
stimulus package of RMB4 trillion were announced 
to ensure continued growth of around 8% in the 
current year.  The Chinese Mainland appears to be in 
a very strong position compared with others around 
the world to weather the economic downturn with 
its leaders confident on achieving the challenging 
8% growth target in 2009. A prolonged recession 
is unlikely to persist in the Chinese Mainland and 
it appears that it will be among the first of the big 
nations to emerge from the current crisis.  
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
THE RIGHT 
DIRECTION & DECISION
To acquire partially-completed properties in major and 
secondary cities in the Chinese Mainland, redevelop into 
high quality buildings, and dispose at desirable moments.
7 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Looking Ahead
Amid the deterioration in the Chinese economy, 
opportunities abound in distressed properties with 
investments potential, albeit expectation gap between 
buyers and sellers can be wide apart at times.  As 
great volatility and further shockwaves from the 
rapidly deteriorating economies around the world 
are still possible, we will be closely monitoring the 
market situation in the first half of 2009 and carefully 
guarding our valuable cash reserves in readiness for 
acquisitions should good opportunities arise.
Meanwhile, existing projects, backed by the Company’s 
ample resources, are progressing on schedule and 
construction has started on a number of sites 
with corresponding marketing and sales efforts.  
Completion of CCP’s larger projects should coincide 
with the recovery of the Chinese economy and form 
the core for recurrent income and profits.
I would like to express my thanks for the contribution 
of Mr. David Wong, the former Managing Director 
who left the Company during 2008 to pursue other 
interests.  I would also like to thank our directors, 
management and staff for their valuable contributions 
during 2008, and our Shareholders for their continued 
support and confidence in the Company. 
Vincent H. S. Lo
Chairman
Hong Kong, 2 April 2009
CHINA CENTRAL PROPERTIES LIMITED
8 COMPETITIVE
ADV ANTAGE
Through affiliation with Shui On Group  
and expertise of the asset manager.
