 4 Christie Group Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’ s review
Knowledge, passion, performance
The UK recovery continued into 2015
and Christie Group benefited from
positive economic conditions. We more
than matched our strong performance
from the previous year . 
Critically, we also improved the quality
of our earnings by generating more
broadly based profits. Aside from retail
stocktaking (discussed below), there
were solid contributions from right
across the Group. 
Our strategic positioning has always
focused on the added value of in-depth,
sector-specific expertise. Increasingly,
in today’s knowledge economy,
customers understand the importance
of the high-quality advice we offer . They
are prepared to pay a premium for that. 
What brings them back is the quality of
our service. The commitment here is
palpable. We have built our business
around our clients. Our overriding
imperative is to understand the issues
clients face and address them with
precisely tailored solutions. 
A diversified structure
Christie Group provides services across
the business life cycle. We support
prospective buyers taking on new
businesses. Our services assist
company owners and operators in
enhancing efficiency. We provide expert
support and services for those wanting
to dispose of assets or sell their
businesses outright. The breadth of
our operations keeps us connected
with companies at every stage of
their development. 
We focus our energy and expertise on
three broad economic sectors – retail,
care and leisure. This allows us to
provide high value, high quality business
intelligence to our customers. Our
emphasis on quality makes it more
difficult for competitors to undercut
what we offer .
Our organisational structure combines
the more predictable earnings from
services that enhance day-to-day
business operations with transaction-
related services that may be more
volatile. Revenue is split between
the two activities.
Sector knowledge
We play a pivotal role in our chosen
sectors. 
Our focus is on the entirety of each
sector we cover, from smallest to
largest, from the new entrant to the
experienced operator . It’s ingrained
in our culture. We aim to meet the
different client requirements that
arise at different stages of the business
cycle. We understand the players,
we understand the individual
businesses and we understand
what drives sector activity.
We maintain close connections with
UK businesses within our specialist
sectors that equip us with a strong
sense of the dynamics underpinning
economic performance. We monitor
around a quarter of a million small
and medium-sized businesses in our
specialist sectors. 
The value of research
Business intelligence has always been
at the foundation of our approach. 
As business specialists we have an
intimate understanding of what makes
firms tick. We can benchmark staffing
costs, tariffs, margins – the whole
business model – at a granular level. 
Chief Executive’ s review
It has been a year of positive development. We have
broadened and deepened our pattern of earnings. Christie Group Annual Report 2015 5
We use this information to inform
pricing and valuation and model risk
factors in various businesses.
We are finding new ways to make the
most of this very valuable information. 
In June 2015, we drew on our expertise
in Care to investigate nursing staff
policy. ‘The UK Nursing Workforce:
Crisis or Opportunity’ traced a direct
link between reduced governmental
support for nurse training places in the
UK and the evolution of an expensive
and risky ‘agency culture’ for health and
social care staffing. The report was
referenced in a House of Lords debate.
The Consultancy team also produced
one of the first industry reports on the
impact of the National Living Wage
(NLW) in 2015. This looked in detail at
the specific challenges for hotels,
pubs, restaurants, care, retail, childcare
and the medical sector . The report
suggested potential mitigating actions
for affected businesses. 
We have now set up a central research
unit to share our in-depth understanding
of specific sectors.
Professional Business Services 
The PBS side of the business was
responsible for the majority of our
earnings this year . 
Our strong 2014 results were largely
based on hectic trading in the hotel
sector . Our ambition for 2015 was to
achieve a more balanced revenue profile
with all sectors contributing. This was
largely achieved. 
Forced business sales triggered by
banks have tapered off in the past two
years. Our second goal was to replace
these with more owner-initiated
transactions. This we have also
achieved. What is more, we have
managed to keep overall sales volumes
broadly in line with the previous year .
These were notable achievements,
especially given the fact that improved
economic activity has not translated into
additional sales volumes. Volumes
remain stubbornly low – at less than
half their peak levels in 2007. 
There is no shortage of demand. 
The problem is lack of supply. The
resulting pent-up demand is pushing 
up valuations. Most of our sectors saw
more than a 9% rise in average prices
across the year . Care was the exception,
with NLW concerns dampening
demand, but even here market values
rose. Encouragingly, we have seen 
a rise in recent weeks in the level of
instructions received, which may be 
a sign that this shortage of supply 
is beginning to ease. 
Business. Built around you.
Christie & Co celebrated its 80th
anniversary year with a strong
performance in 2015. The company has
a proud history of successful innovation.
It was the first agency to advertise on
commercial television, the first to provide
video guides to available businesses and
the first to connect prospective business
buyers with potential properties online. It
recently rolled out a new highly functional
online sales portal Christie.com with the
potential to become the UK’s destination
site for business property sales.
Christie & Co also commissioned 
a rebranding exercise in 2015. This
underlined its reputation for in-depth,
sector expertise. Based around the
concept of ‘Business. Built around you’,
the new branding reflects the ethos
that has been core to the business
ever since its inception in 1935. 
The finance and insurance businesses
incorporate the new Christie brand,
reinforcing the complementary nature 
of the Christie offering. Both businesses
are valuable profit centres in their own
right. They also extend Christie’s client
relationships. Christie Insurance
maintained steady profitability
throughout 2015, while Christie Finance
continued to grow its fee income. 
International
International investors intensified their
European activity in 2015. Christie
provides joined-up advice through its
network of European offices. It is now
present in 31 locations across Europe
and is continuing to invest. It opened 
a Stockholm branch during the year 
and has set up a dedicated Asia desk
aimed mainly at Chinese businesses
looking to invest in Europe. 
Market insight
In-depth expertise and service excellence
are the common threads that link all
our companies. 
The nature of business buyers has
changed. They are often private equity
or venture capitalists. They have
financial rather than operational
pedigrees. They therefore value our
trade sector and operating expertise
and this is driving demand for a wider
package of services. Our consultancy
teams advise on health and safety,
compliance issues and act in a
troubleshooting capacity. 
Pinders, our business valuation and
appraisal company, continues to grow 
in scale. It is also often used in a
consulting capacity. Its specialist reports
“During 2015 we expanded our team, our network & our
range of services and grew our client base. We have
developed our systems for implementation in 2016 and 
are soundly based for the future.”  Chief Executive’s review continued
Whatever the outcome of the Brexit
vote, the demand for our multi-
domestic services will continue
in both the UK and Europe.
6 Christie Group Annual Report 2015
are highly rated. Banks often commission
on new-build developments to advise
both on the cost of the building project
and the value of the resulting business.
It is one of a very few valuation specialists
with the breadth of knowledge to deliver
this service effectively.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services 
Venners, our licensed trade and
hospitality stocktaking business
performed well during the year .
Ancillary services, such as compliance,
health and safety, food consultancy 
and profit control continue to go from
strength to strength. The business 
focus now is to combine these in a
strong consultancy option.
The Venners philosophy is to work closely
with each client to optimise its business
performance. It enjoyed a significant
increase in mandates in 2015; many of
them were from existing clients. The fact
that its own success is being built on its
clients’ successes is testament to the
effectiveness of this strategy.
Vennersys, our software business, is on
track to achieve its goal of developing 
a cloud-based enterprise suite to sell 
to new and existing customers by mid
2016. Cloud-based delivery will allow
Vennersys to support a larger user base
and transition to a more predictable,
subscription-based revenue model.
Structural change in retail 
This was a challenging year for Orridge,
our retail stocktaking business. 
The internet is bringing fundamental
structural change to the retail sector .
Many physical retailers are transitioning
to a click and collect model and this is
stimulating growth in Orridge’s supply
chain division.
In the long-term this presents clear
opportunities. Cohesive, well-ordered
supply chains are critical for bricks and
clicks retailers. They need to know
about availability and replenishment in
real time. Supply chain stock checking
is continuous rather than periodic and
can be co-located at numerous
warehouse and distribution locations.
Since our stock checkers operate from a
single location for the working week, the
client benefits from an established and
ongoing relationship, the benefits of
which increase as knowledge of their
supply operation is gained.
Whilst using our renowned technology,
this is a people-intensive service.
We rely heavily on people in the field to
undertake our counts. There have been
3% increases in the minimum wage for
two years in a row and 2015 also saw the
start of auto-enrolment for pensions.
These have led to higher staffing costs. 
Our retail customers were already
under margin pressure. Some have
been more willing to buy a wider range
of services. The problems principally
relate to a handful of low margin
contracts which will not be renewed 
on current terms.
Our focus now is on reorganising the
business to reduce our central costs,
and to find technological solutions 
that can improve operational efficiency. 
We are in the process of rebuilding 
a solid foundation to ensure that this
evolves into a profitable business in 
2017 and beyond.
Bench strength
Staffing became a lot more stable in
2015 and we are finding it easier to
recruit high calibre people. Today’s
digital natives are adept at accessing
multiple sources of information to
acquire salient details. These are
precisely the kinds of skills Christie
people use every day.
We now have better training in place. 
A strong online element in several of
our businesses allows people to develop
skills at their own pace. As a result,
we are integrating and training our
people a lot quicker . 
Our new regional structure has also
paid dividends. Our coherent, light-
touch management structure retains
control but encourages responsibility
and self-reliance right across the
business. There is considerable depth 
in our teams and we have been able to
take on some very large projects with
extremely tight deadlines. 
Looking ahead
Uncertainty is a dominant market theme
in 2016. Governments, businesses and
investors are counselling caution. At
Christie Group, as we look beyond the
immediate, we are quietly confident. As
a highly diversified business founded on
knowledge, service and operational
excellence we shall continue to meet
customer priorities and build on our
strengths in our chosen sectors.
David Rugg
Chief Executive
1 April 2016 In changing waters we have to be ready for all
eventualities. Like sailing crews, we are
continually adapting – adjusting course and fine-
tuning strategy in line with prevailing conditions.
Christie’s agility enhances its performance and
strengthens its resilience. The source of this
agility? Our team-based approach. 
Christie Group Annual Report 2015 7
Charting the
right course
