 2 Christie Group Annual Report 2015
A strong performance in our
Professional Business Services division
offset a very difficult year in retail
stocktaking which I referred to at the
time of the release of our interim
results. Earnings per share increased by
4.2% to 9.73p per share (2014: 9.34p).
Professional Business Services
The PBS division improved further on
the success it enjoyed in 2014, with a
9.1% growth in revenues to £36.3m
(2014: £33.2m) producing an operating
profit of £4.6m (2014: £3.3m).
Our transactional business in Christie
& Co enjoyed a busy period of corporate
activity across a broad selection of the
trade sectors in which we operate.
Overall, Christie & Co valued, advised
on or transacted over £28bn of assets,
instanced by brokering a deal worth
more than £100m for Anchor to acquire
24 purpose-built homes operated by
LNT Group subsidiary Ideal Carehomes,
the sale of the MGallery in Vienna which
showcased our Austrian and Spanish
teams working together to introduce 
a Spanish buyer and maximising the
price for our client, and Christie & Co
identified Care UK to operate a new 
80 bed care home in Sevenoaks for
developer Kitewood Group which the
investor Octopus Healthcare has
forward funded. For the sixth
consecutive year, Christie & Co were
voted the UK’s most active hotel and
leisure agent by the Estates Gazette.
Incentive fees rewarded us in a number
of cases where proceeds realised
exceeded expectations. Our team,
which is present in 31 locations across
Europe and speaks 23 languages, has
been able to offer industry leading advice
and deal opportunities. 2015 also saw
the Consultancy team produce one of
the first industry reports into the impact
of the National Living Wage (NLW) on
the sectors that Christie & Co cover . 
Our two valuation practices advised on
or valued over £20bn of assets for both
balance sheet and security purposes in
over 10,000 assignments, including
valuing the Greene King and Marston
Pub Estates. 
Our finance brokerage, Christie Finance,
which was delighted to receive Full
Authorisation from the FCA in
November 2015, won Commercial
Mortgage Introducer of the Year award
from Business MoneyFacts Awards for
the excellence of its service.
Christie Insurance has continued to
deliver tailored solutions for clients not
well served by standardised existing
insurance arrangements, working closely
with Christie & Co and Christie Finance
in the process. One group of companies
mainly focused in the elderly care sector
gave us a very short timeframe to insure
over 80 homes. We provided them with a
single insurer and a saving in premiums
of £100,000 compared to the next best
option on the market.
Our Building Services division provided
a range of support for clients during the
year, from building monitoring for banks
on multi-million pound developments,
structural due diligence reports for a
hotel chain in its disposal programme 
of selected assets, as well as interior
design and project management to
assist a client with its office
refurbishment programme.
Chairman’ s statement
I am pleased to report an increased revenue of £63.7m
(2014: £61.0m) and a marginally increased operating
profit of £3.8m (2014: £3.7m). 
We anticipate that our results in
2016 will be second half weighted
but remain optimistic of our
outcome for the year . “The year started quietly but has
begun to gather pace with the Spring.
Our pipeline of pending deals in
progress continues to grow.”
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services
Vennersys, our online visitor attraction
and systems provider, saw the first
migrations by existing clients to our
new cloud-based model, VENPos Cloud. 
Avro Heritage Museum were among
these first adopters.
Our first client installation of the new
product took place in early January 2016,
a milestone in the new product’s
development. We anticipate that in the
case of 2016, required modules will be
provided in our new system, enabling
existing clients to be switched to the new
software. In addition, new clients are
being won, including the award winning
Folly Farm Adventure Park and Zoo. 
Venners, our provider of stocktaking,
inventory and consultancy services 
to the hospitality industry, has enjoyed
another strong year of growth in both
revenue and profitability. We continue 
to recruit and train new operatives. 
We have increased our regional
management to enable more work to
be sought and serviced on a local basis
in addition to the national contracts we
enjoy. Our range of additional services
has grown beyond stocktaking and
inventory to now encompass compliance
auditing, health and safety and
consultancy. Resulting from our advice,
one multi-site operator added £2.8m to
their gross profit in just nine months.
By contrast, the retail stock taking
sector in the UK is suffering the effect
of rising wages at a time when certain
areas such as food retailers are
experiencing price deflation. The
adverse impact on profitability has been
marked and explains the operating
losses reported in the division
compared to the profitability seen in
previous years. We anticipate continued
disruption for Orridge whilst the
National Living Wage is adopted.
Nonetheless, we continue to be offered
assignments by new clients, albeit while
being careful to accept new work on a
profitable basis with all known future
cost increases factored in.
In response to these challenges, we are
working with our clients to apply stock
control in the most cost-effective
manner while developing additional
services. Our supply chain services are
increasingly seen by retailers as part 
of the solution while we continue to
enjoy a strong position in the profitable
pharmacy stock taking arena from
where Orridge first originated. We
believe these UK markets continue to
provide genuine opportunity once the
period of disruption in the retail sector
is overcome.
Looking outside the UK, Guess Europe
has chosen Orridge as inventory
partner on a European level because
they provided a high professionalism,
good technology to support the count
and a great support on a human level
during the whole inventory phase. It is
a client experience that Orridge is well
placed to repeat as a pan-European
service provider.
Outlook
The year started quietly but has
begun to gather pace with the Spring.
Our pipeline of pending deals in
progress continues to grow. In late
February we launched a new web
portal under the christie.com address,
with linked sites to Christie Finance
and Christie Insurance. I do encourage
you to visit the site which is both
intuitive and instant in bringing to
market the trading businesses in
which we specialise.
Whatever the outcome of the Brexit vote,
the demand for our multi-domestic
services will continue in both the UK
and Europe. We anticipate that our
results in 2016 will be second half
weighted but remain optimistic of our
profitable outcome for the year .
On your behalf, I am pleased to thank
our staff who, between them, set the
benchmark in our sectors for the
services they provide.
Your directors recommend a final
dividend of 1.5p per share (2014: 1.5p), 
a total of 2.50p for the year (2014: 2.25p)
and an 11% increase on the prior year . 
If approved the dividend will be paid on 
8 July 2016 to those shareholders on
the register on 10 June 2016. 
Philip Gwyn
Chairman
1 April 2016 
Christie Group Annual Report 2015 3
Michael Venner
We sadly record the passing of
Michael Venner . Michael was the last
male member of the founding family
to serve his career at Venners and was
a skilled and enthusiastic champion
for the business. He greatly assisted its
integration into Christie Group for
which we remain profoundly grateful.
