 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     11 10     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REPORT
Operating overview
In 2015, we made encouraging progress in  
our core business, and developed significant 
opportunities for further growth. 
Circle’s management model has always 
emphasised a number of key principles.  
We believe that we offer better, more 
efficient care by focusing, above all else, 
on patients. We believe that excellent 
hospitality and design are essential to  
an excellent patient experience. We 
believe in clinical leadership, and constant 
innovation. And finally, we have built up  
a particular expertise in MSK care, beyond 
the orthopaedic surgery many private 
hospital groups offer. 
In 2015, we consolidated this operational 
expertise and, as a result, we have delivered 
solid financial results. 
Operating outlook
Our core strengths have enabled the Group 
to deliver excellent growth and improved 
results in 2015, both in our hospitals and  
in delivering integrated care. 
Our aim is to use the skills we have 
developed in these operations to further 
grow our core business, and to add logical 
extensions to our current services. 
Continued organic growth  
at hospital sites 
CircleBath will continue to secure its status 
as a clinical centre of excellence, pursuing 
higher acuity work that delivers strong 
margins to the Group. The hospital will 
continue to work on efficiency projects 
throughout 2016 to further improve 
financial performance.   
CircleReading will see a continued strong 
rate of growth in both patient volumes and 
revenue, as we continue to attract patients 
from an expanding catchment area. We 
expect the facility will further benefit from 
Circle’s planned rehabilitation service, 
which is outlined below.  
We have recently launched a new range 
of all-inclusive self-pay packages, with the 
aim of growing this payor group. Current 
self-pay patients account for 10% of the 
patient mix across the two hub hospitals 
for total patient procedures, and we, 
therefore, see an opportunity to grow this 
figure. These packages offer excellent value 
and promote the outstanding hospitality 
and quality care that are Circle’s hallmarks. 
CircleNottingham will continue with 
its integration into the local healthcare 
economy throughout 2016. It is expected 
that the hospital can leverage our core 
expertise to develop further opportunities 
in orthopaedic work, and it will drive 
efficiencies in the facility to accommodate 
continued volume growth.
Provisional contracts are in place for 
construction on CircleBirmingham. The 
concept has adapted to be a multi-use 
facility, to allow for expansion with an 
integrated rehabilitation centre. Building 
works will commence in the third quarter  
of 2016.
Further MSK contracts
Our Bedfordshire MSK contract has seen 
the Group transfer our strength of MSK 
knowledge and innovation from solely 
acute care to primary, community and 
secondary care. This represents unique 
operational knowledge and insight into 
the benefits and challenges of integrating 
care, from referral to triage, through to 
treatment completion. 
The Group is actively working on securing 
additional MSK services, and we expect 
further opportunities in integrated MSK 
work to come to market in the next 12 
months. Circle’s experience puts us in  
a prime position to secure further work, 
and we expect to do so. We will assess 
opportunities individually to ensure 
they are viable and that they genuinely 
offer shared benefits for both the NHS 
commissioner and the provider.  
 
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     11
Improving post-acute care in the UK 
Our experience in acute care has led to the 
insight that UK patients would benefit from 
improved rehabilitation services. 
There are some rehabilitation centres in 
the UK, but they tend to focus on drug, 
alcohol or mental health, and tend to 
be small centres disconnected from 
mainstream acute hospitals. Hospitals  
do provide some rehabilitation services  
for serious neurological conditions, but  
the UK could significantly improve its 
record on patients who fail to return 
to health after surgery. The NHS also 
faces recurrent problems of medically 
healthy patients in acute hospitals awaiting 
discharge, who cannot access social, step-
down or reablement care. With an ageing 
population, these problems will only grow.
This combination of demographic trends, 
gaps in current provision, and a growing 
crisis in post-acute patients suggest there 
is significant potential demand for better 
rehabilitation services. 
Circle expects to enter into a partnership 
with a major European provider of medical 
rehabilitation, with an extensive track 
record in providing public and private 
healthcare services.  
This will complement Circle’s experience 
in hospital care and orthopaedic work, and 
offer one of the UK’s only dedicated service 
to meet demand for intensive, medically-
driven rehabilitation. 
Circle expects to open rehabilitation facilities 
in Reading, Bath and Birmingham. We are 
finalising the terms of the partnership, and 
expect to confirm further details in the 
coming weeks.
Bringing next generation proton 
beam therapy to Harley Street
Circle’s desire to innovate also sees us 
partnering with Advanced Oncotherapy 
(‘AVO’), who are developing a next-
generation proton beam therapy system, 
incorporating technology licensed from 
CERN. This reduces the size and cost of 
the proton beam machine considerably, 
enabling AVO to install a facility in  
Harley Street.
AVO’s technology development remains on  
track, and we are supporting AVO’s efforts 
to obtain finance for its technology. 
Using Circle’s operational 
knowledge abroad
Circle has demonstrated its operational 
expertise and, as mentioned in our 2014  
results, we continue to explore opportunities 
in China to build on our UK platform. We 
expect to provide a subsequent update on 
these international opportunities in the 
coming months. 
2016 will be another important year 
for us. Our track record of growth, our 
commitment to excellent patient care  
and strategy to use our existing expertise 
to unlock further partnerships and growth, 
provides Circle with a clear path to 
sustained profitability. 
Together with a dedicated and talented  
team, we are excited about the opportunities 
that the next 12 months will bring. 
Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
29 March 2016 
CIRCLE’S CURRENT PATHWAY
Acute 
rehabilitation
Community- 
based 
rehabilitation
Acute  
treatment
Outpatient 
rehabilitation
Long-term  
care
• Rehabilitation role in the UK is 
currently underserved and not 
delivered to a high standard. 
• Circle plans to extend care from  
acute to post-acute, to create a  
holistic patient journey.
• Outcomes-based rehabilitation based 
on the northern European model is 
complementary to Circle’s hospital 
model to support the patient journey  
for orthopaedic and neurological 
patients. 
 Circle pathway
 Not widely available in the UK
CIRCLE’S CURRENT PATHWAY
Inpatient 
rehabilitation
Primary 
prevention
EXTENDED PATHWAY
Patients awaiting further non-acute NHS care is the 
single largest reason for delayed days in 2014/15 (20. 1%  
of all delayed days). Of all the reasons for DTOC, at 
least four areas could be significantly improved by the  
implementation of post-acute care services (see below).
Source: NHS England, Delayed Transfers  
of Care Annual Report 2013/14 and 2014/15.
Delayed transfers  
of care (‘DTOC’)
+15%
to 1.6 million bed days
Independent sector average
Patients awaiting: non-acute NHS care; 
completion of assessment; care package  
in own home; or, community equipment  
and adaptations.
700
2014 2015
740
780
820
860
900
DELAYED DAYS
