 Chief Executive’s review
Circas sia 	 is 	 in 	 a 	 p er iod 	 of 	 e x cit ing 	 t r ans for mat ion 	 as 	 w e	
acc eler ate 	 ou r 	 s t r ateg y 	 to 	 become 	 a 	 sel f -su s t aining 	 s p ecialt y	
biop har mac eu t ical 	 company . 	 Ou r 	 inno vat iv e 	 aller g y 	 t r eat ment s	
cont inu e 	 to 	 mak e 	 good 	 p rogr es s, 	 and 	 w e 	 r emain 	 on 	 t r ack 	 to	
d eliv er 	 ou r 	 p hase 	 III 	 r esult s 	 in 	 t he 	 coming 	 mont hs . 	 Du r ing 	 t he	
year , 	 w e 	 succ es s full y 	 completed 	 t w o 	 s t r ategic 	 ac quisit ions,	
which 	 giv e 	 u s 	 es t ablis hed 	 sp ecialt y 	 commercial 	 infr as t r uc tu r e	
t ar get ing 	 t he 	 k ey 	 cu s tomer s 	 for 	 ou r 	 ne x t - gener at ion 	 aller g y	
i m mu no t he r a pie s, 	 w h i le 	 a lso 	 s i g n i fic a n t l y	 br oad e n i n g 	 ou r	
pi p e li ne . 	 Impo r t a n t l y , 	 t he se 	 ac q uis i t io ns 	 ha v e 	 b e e n 	 v a l id ate d	
b y 	 t he 	 signi ficant 	 sales 	 gro w t h 	 of 	 ou r 	 ac quir ed 	 NIO X
®
 products 
and 	 t he 	 ap p ro val 	 of 	 ou r 	 lead 	 as t hma 	 t r eat ment .	
In 	 the 	 coming 	 y ear , 	 w e 	 intend 	 to 	 build 	 on 	 this 	 progress,	
e xpanding 	 our 	 commercial 	 presence 	 in 	 preparation 	 for 	 the	
launch 	 of 	 our 	 fir st 	 allergy 	 treatment , 	 while 	 fur ther 	 increasing	
sales 	 of 	 our 	 appro v ed 	 products. 	 W e 	 also 	 plan 	 to 	 deliv er 	 on 	 our	
wider 	 pipeline , 	 including 	 mo ving 	 our 	 grass 	 allergy 	 treatment	
into 	 a 	 registration 	 study . 	 As 	 a 	 result , 	 2 0 1 6 	 will 	 be 	 an 	 impor tant	
y ear 	 for 	 Circassia 	 as 	 w e 	 mo v e 	 to w ards 	 our 	 goal 	 of 	 building 	 a	
le a din g 	 s p e cialt y 	 bi o p ha r m a c e u t i c al 	 b u s ine s s .
Building 	 a 	 succ es s ful 	 s p ecialt y 	 biop har mac eu t ical 	 company
Our franchise of novel allergy immunotherapies offers the potential 
of significant improvements over currently available treatments, and 
in 2015 we made good progress in advancing our products towards 
the market. As part of our commercialisation strategy, we acquired 
Aerocrine with its established commercial infrastructure in the US and 
Germany that is already targeting the allergy / asthma specialists we 
need to educate on our novel allergy technology in order to generate 
faster and greater product uptake following launch. We are now well 
positioned in the world’s two most important allergy markets to identify 
key accounts, train our sales force and prepare the marketplace 
well in advance of product approval. The acquisition also brought 
market-leading NIOX
®
 asthma management products, providing us 
with a rapidly growing revenue stream and the opportunity to expand 
our direct presence into additional countries currently served by 
distributors. Concurrent with this acquisition, we purchased Prosonix, 
which broadened the asthma portfolio and brought novel formulations 
for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Consequently, we have made good progress in building a world-class 
specialty business that is centred on our pipeline of innovative allergy 
therapeutics, and complemented by a wider portfolio of products  
we can promote directly to specialists in North America and key 
European markets, or substitute directly. 
Deliv er ing 	 ou r 	 lead 	 aller g y 	 p roduc t
Throughout this period of transition, we have maintained the focus on 
our allergy portfolio, and our cat allergy programme remains on track 
to report pivotal phase III results in the next quarter. Our preparations 
to submit the data to the regulators in North America and Europe, 
dependent on the outcome, are also on schedule, with filings planned 
before the end of the year. In preparation for launch, we have entered a 
commercial manufacturing supply agreement with Bachem, completed 
market research in the US and key European markets and finalised 
our brand and proposed scientific names. We have also established 
Regional Medical Affairs expertise in our key territories to establish links 
throughout the allergy community, and complemented the commercial 
team with market access and reimbursement expertise. 
Ad vancing 	 ou r 	 bu sines s
During 2015, we made advances across our business, both before 
and following our acquisitions. Our four late-stage allergy treatments 
all moved forward, and we moved our birch allergy therapy into 
clinical development. In addition, we progressed our new asthma and 
COPD products, with the lead treatment receiving regulatory approval 
following a filing to the UK authorities in 2014, and our earlier-stage 
fixed dose triple combination product entered the clinic. We also 
achieved a number of successes in our new NIOX
®
 franchise, launching 
the next-generation VERO
®
 product in China and growing worldwide 
revenues by 32% during the six months of our ownership, compared 
with the same period the year before. As a result, we have transformed 
our Company into a business that now has a broad pipeline of allergy 
and respiratory products in development, six clinical trials underway, 
further studies planned for the coming months, the potential for eight 
product launches over the next six years and market-leading products 
sold around the world. 
S t rong 	 financial 	 posit ion
The last year has been a period of significant investment across our 
entire business, and in June we completed a successful £275 million 
Placing and Open Offer to fund our strategic acquisitions. During the 
year, we increased investment in our clinical programmes, commercial 
infrastructure and broader pipeline. With a significant number of clinical 
trials underway, and preparations ongoing for further large-scale field 
studies to begin in 2016, our R&D investment increased to £46.8 million  
in 2015, up from £38.6 million the previous year. To support the 
increased workload, we expanded our R&D organisation by 75%, in 
particular growing our clinical, regulatory, quality and CMC teams. In 
parallel, we increased our commercial investment to prepare for our first 
allergy product launch and to continue the sales growth of our marketed 
products, and we have increased the size of our US field force by 65%. 
Following these significant investments we remain well financed, with 
£203.8 million of cash at the end of 2015, and consequently we are 
funded to deliver our allergy products and wider pipeline. 
Encour agi ng 	 out look
Building on the achievements of 2015, the coming year promises to 
be an exciting period for Circassia. We look forward to the results from 
our lead allergy product’s pivotal trial, the initiation of our grass allergy 
treatment’s registration study and ongoing progress in our house dust 
mite, ragweed, birch and Japanese cedar allergy programmes. Our 
allergy products have the potential to revolutionise treatment, and with 
our launch preparations well underway and market research indicating 
the potential for robust pricing it is clear we have a major commercial 
opportunity. This significant potential is also mirrored across our 
asthma management and respiratory businesses. We anticipate 
ongoing growth in the sales of our NIOX
®
 products, with revenues 
supporting the continued expansion of our commercial infrastructure. 
During the coming year, we also plan to move our Seretide
®
 pMDI 
substitute towards filing, and report clinical results from our fixed dose 
triple combination study. As a result, the outlook for 2016 is extremely 
encouraging, with good progress anticipated in each area of our newly-
enlarged business. 
Steven Harris
Chief Executive Officer
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 18
