 STRATEGIC REPORT
6
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Anthony Bloom
Chairman (right)
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer (left)
Chairman’s Statement
The outlook for 2016 is 
encouraging as there is a solid 
film release programme and 
we are currently on track to 
open a further 13 cinemas 
during the year. Accordingly, 
I look forward to the future 
with optimism and confidence. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 7
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2015 was another successful and 
exciting year for the Cineworld Group and its shareholders. 
Revenues continued to grow as more than 93 million customers 
came through our doors and enjoyed the movies we showed. 
The film slate was strong with a number of blockbusters 
exceeding expectations – “ Jurassic World”, “Spectre” and 
“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” being the most significant. 
The increase in EBITDA was the result of that positive trend 
in admissions, two months additional results from the Cinema 
City acquisition, as well as better operating efficiencies and the 
effect of our new cinemas, limited in the latter case as most of 
them only opened towards the end of the period.
The Group’s EBITDA for the period increased by 22.7% to 
£155.3m (2014: £126.6m), on revenue which improved by 
13.9% to £705.8m (2014: £619.4m). Statutory profit before 
tax increased by 48.1% to £99.7m (2014: £67.3m). 
The Group’s balance sheet is strong. Net debt reduced 
to £245.2m, thus reducing the EBITDA to net debt ratio 
at the year end to 1.6 times, compared to 2.1 times in the 
prior year. This strength along with the excellent operating 
performance of the Group has enabled the Board to declare 
a full year dividend of 17.5p per share, which represents 29.6% 
growth. I am particularly proud of the fact that the Group 
has increased the dividend every year since the Company 
was listed in 2007, in varying economic conditions which 
in some years were extremely challenging.
During 2015 we focused on both expanding and renovating 
our estate. There were a record number of 18 site openings 
in the UK and Ireland and CEE and Israel. We operate 2,011 
screens, in 218 cinemas, across nine different territories as at 
the end of 2015. This translates into approximately 10,000 
shows a day in 9 different territories, a managerial task 
of considerable magnitude which our management team 
handled with great skill. We are currently scheduled to open 
a further 465 screens over the next four years – 290 of 
which are in CEE and Israel and 175 of which are in the UK. 
This expansion will be financed from internal resources and 
provide excellent growth potential into the future.
The Group’s performance in 2015 was gratifying in a number 
of important areas, particularly in the field of enhanced 
customer service. Driven by our focus on ensuring that we 
make good on our publicly expressed promise to be “The Best 
Place To Watch A Movie”, we were pleased that our efforts 
in this regard were validated by the fact that we were the 
top ranked UK cinema chain in the highly regarded Annual 
Survey conducted by the Institute of Customer Service. In 
addition, our CEO Mooky Greidinger will be awarded the 
prestigious “Global Achievement Award” by the National 
Association of Cinema Owners in Las Vegas in April this 
year, a mark of the respect in which our Company is held 
internationally. Going forward we will continue to make 
excellent customer experience a top priority, as it has always 
been between Cineworld and Cinema City. The integration 
process of the two companies was completed during the year 
and I am pleased to report that the synergies achieved have 
significantly exceeded our original expectations.
Board
Following nine years of committed service, David Maloney 
and Peter Williams ceased to be considered independent as 
Non-Executive Directors, as defined by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, and stepped down from the Board at the 
AGM on 26 May 2015. I would like to personally thank David 
and Peter for their dedication to Cineworld since its listing, and 
during a period which has seen the Company become one the 
UK’s most successful cinema chains, expand internationally 
and enter the FTSE 250. They made a significant contribution 
and we wish both of them well for the future. 
At the AGM, Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were 
elected to join the Board as independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Julie Southern was appointed as the Chair of the 
Audit Committee, to replace David Maloney. Julie has an 
extensive background both in finance and consumer facing 
businesses and is well qualified to assume this role. Alicja 
has extensive experience in most of the Eastern European 
territories in which the Group operates and brings a valuable 
skill set to the Board. Both Julie and Alicja have already 
made significant contributions to the Board discussions and 
coincidentally have the added advantage of addressing the 
gender imbalance which previously existed on the Board.
On 26 May 2015 Rick Senat was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director, a position previously held by David 
Maloney, and Martina King was appointed as the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, succeeding Peter Williams. Fiona 
Smith, who joined the Company as In House Counsel in 2011, 
was appointed as Company Secretary and General Counsel, 
with effect from 30 June 2015. I would like to welcome Fiona 
Smith to the role of Company Secretary, and thank outgoing 
Company Secretary and General Counsel Richard Ray, who 
has helped guide Cineworld for seven years since its early 
years as a listed Company.
On 9 June 2015 Philip Bowcock stepped down as Chief 
Financial Officer. Deputy CEO Israel Greidinger, formerly 
CFO of Cinema City International before its combination 
with Cineworld in February 2014, assumed the responsibility 
of CFO on an interim basis. I would like to thank Philip for 
his important contribution as CFO of Cineworld and on 
the Group’s Board.
It goes without saying that we will continue to attain the 
highest corporate governance standards. This is a matter 
that the Board takes extremely seriously. We continue to take 
note of issues that concern the environment, gender and other 
diversity and health and safety matters, and we periodically 
review and where appropriate improve our practices in 
those areas.
On behalf of myself and the Board I would like to 
express my sincere appreciation to the Group’s management 
and all its employees for their hard work, competence 
and professionalism and their achievements during 2015. 
We have an excellent and highly motivated management 
team, a modern estate with state of the art equipment and 
bold plans for the future, all of which will continue to provide 
shareholder value.
Outlook 
The outlook for 2016 is encouraging as there is a solid film 
release programme and we are currently on track to open 
a further 13 cinemas during the year. Accordingly, I look 
forward to the future with optimism and confidence. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
10 March 2016
