 Chairman’s statement
The 	 las t 	 year 	 has 	 be en 	 a 	 p er iod 	 of 	 signi ficant 	 p rogr es s 	 for	
Circas sia. 	 W e 	 ad vanc ed 	 ou r 	 pip eline 	 of 	 inno vat iv e 	 aller g y	
t her apies 	 and 	 t he 	 succ es s ful 	 ac quisit ions 	 of 	 Aerocr ine 	 and	
Prosoni x 	 acc eler ated 	 ou r 	 s t r ateg y 	 to 	 commercialise 	 t hese	
p roduc t s 	 ind ep end ent l y 	 in 	 k e y 	 mark et s, 	 while 	 also 	 building	
a 	 broad 	 and 	 balanc ed 	 pip eline 	 of 	 s p ecialt y 	 t r eat ment s . 	 Wit h	
a 	 succ es s ful 	 £ 27 5 	 million 	 fu nd r aising 	 completed 	 to 	 su p por t	
t he 	 ac quisit ions, 	 t he 	 Company 	 r emains 	 w ell 	 fu nd ed 	 to 	 deliv er	
acros s 	 t he 	 ne wl y- e x pand ed 	 bu sines s .	
Thr e e 	 fr anchises; 	 one 	 common 	 infr as t r uc tu r e
Our strategy to transform Circassia into a self-sustaining leader in 
the specialty pharmaceutical sector took a significant leap forward in 
2015. The business now has three separate specialty franchises based 
on three innovative technologies, which come together under a single 
therapeutic focus and leverage a common commercial ‘backbone’ 
and out-sourced business model. While the Company remains centred 
around its revolutionary allergy products, it is also building significant 
additional value from its broader asthma and respiratory portfolio that 
can leverage its newly-established commercial infrastructure. 
These acquisitions represent an important strategic milestone 
for Circassia. Crucially, they ‘leapfrog’ the requirement to build a 
commercial presence from scratch prior to our first product approval, 
thereby avoiding the major challenges associated with recruiting and 
retaining talented sales teams before they have products to sell and 
having to commit resources to major infrastructure ramp up before a 
revenue stream is established. 
The acquisition of Aerocrine brings commercial operations in the 
world’s two largest allergy markets, the US and Germany, and a 
network of distribution channels in other territories that we can  
bring in-house to expand our capabilities. Most importantly, the  
field forces already target our future core customers: the allergy 
specialists who will be responsible for the success of our 
immunotherapy portfolio. This established infrastructure provides  
an ideal foundation for our ambitious growth plans, while also  
providing an immediate and growing revenue stream from sales  
of its market-leading NIOX
®
 products. 
Circassia’s commercial progress was complemented by the concurrent 
acquisition of Prosonix, which broadens and balances our pipeline. 
Its products fall into the same respiratory focus as Aerocrine, with a 
number of near-term asthma treatments. These are complemented  
by longer-term novel formulations targeting chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). These products can leverage our  
common commercial infrastructure, with late-stage asthma substitute 
treatments not requiring significant promotion but using our supply 
chain, reimbursement, compliance and analytic capabilities, while  
the success of the longer-term novel formulations can be greatly 
enhanced by directly targeting key opinion leaders and specialists. 
Buildi ng 	 mom e nt um
Since completing these acquisitions in June 2015, we have made 
good progress advancing all three franchises of our business. In our 
immunotherapy franchise we are on track to complete our cat allergy 
pivotal trial in the near future and to initiate a registration study in grass 
allergy. Our commercial progress is underlined by solid sales growth 
in our acquired NIOX
®
 franchise, while our most advanced acquired 
asthma treatment has now been approved by the UK regulator.  
Overall, we have continued the momentum created by our acquisitions, 
and have ambitious plans to build on this in the coming year. 
P osit iv e 	 ou t look
Circassia’s future looks highly encouraging as our ambition to bring 
our portfolio to market is increasingly matched by our capability to 
do so. In the near-term, we look forward to completing our cat allergy 
phase III study, while expanding our commercialisation capabilities in 
preparation for its launch. With the allergy sector continuing to attract 
attention, and current therapies that target the underlying disease 
remaining highly inadequate, we are well placed to exploit  
the commercial potential of this previously poorly-served market. 
Looking to the longer-term, the future is equally positive. With 
three franchises, any of which has the potential to drive long-term 
success, we have the prospect of ongoing substantial sales growth, 
complemented by three potential product filings by the end of next year 
and eight potential product launches by the end of 2021. With a robust 
balance sheet to support our ambitious plans, we are well placed to 
achieve our goal of becoming a self-sustaining, world-class specialty 
biopharmaceutical business. 
Dr Francesco Granata
Chairman
Cir cassia 	 Pharmaceuticals 	 plc Annual report and accounts 2015 16
