 STRATEGIC REPORT
2
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
The Group operates in nine different territories. We have 218 cinema 
sites with 2,011 screens. We are the second largest cinema business 
in Europe and the number one or two (by number of screens ) 
in each territory of operation.
Cineworld is one of the UK’s leading cinema chains by Box 
Office revenues. The cinemas are modern, well designed 
multiplexes with stadium and allocated seating, situated 
mostly in leisure and retail parks. Cineworld provides a 
high level of customer service to a large volume and wide 
demographic of customers and shows a very broad range 
of films; it is also offers the highly successful ‘Unlimited’ card 
which allows customers access to unlimited films for a monthly 
subscription. During the period Cineworld continued the 
renovation of some of its older cinemas, completing the 
renovation of Milton Keynes which included the first 4DX 
screen to be launched in the UK and Sheffield which includes 
our first VIP offering in the UK in addition to the opening 
of eight new cinema sites.
Cinema City operates in six Central and Eastern European 
territories and is either the number one or two, measured 
by screens, in each of the markets in which it operates. The 
cinemas are all modern, well designed multiplexes with four or 
more screens, have market leading technologies such as IMAX, 
4DX and VIP and cater for a high volume of customers. The 
cinemas tend to have larger foyers than those in the UK, giving 
an impressive and welcoming feel and its proud local teams 
provide a great experience to their customers. All cinemas have 
allocated seating as standard and offer a wide range of popular 
films, many of which are local to the territory in which the 
cinemas are situated. Romania has been the focus market for 
expansion and development with five new cinema sites opened 
in 2015 and a further five scheduled for opening in 2016. 
Picturehouse provides a unique, local and intimate film viewing 
experience having created cinemas of both high quality and of 
architectural merit. Picturehouse operates in 13 towns and 
cities, with eight located in London ‘villages’, and continues to 
focus on cinemagoers aged 25 and over, students and those in 
the more affluent demographics. These audiences are reached 
by showing a mix of quality blockbusters, alternative content 
and specialised films. With generally five screens or fewer, 
Picturehouse Cinemas create a cosy atmosphere, offering 
freshly-cooked food, bars and other special events, making 
the experience a bit different to the big multiplexes. During the 
period, our flagship site, Picturehouse Central was opened in 
the heart of London’s West End, close to Leicester Square with 
a unique offering including a restaurant and members bar. 
Yes Planet and Rav-Chen are the two brands the Group 
operates within Israel. Yes Planet is the market leader, offering 
IMAX, 4DX and VIP screens to its customers. The styles and 
designs of the cinemas are a mixture of modern, multiplexes 
and local community cinemas, some of which were the first 
cinemas to be built in Israel. All cinemas have stadium seating, 
big screens and the latest digital technology. The cinemas 
show a range of popular films in comfortable surroundings to 
a large number of customers. During 2015 a state-of-the art 
16 screen cinema was opened in Jerusalem with IMAX, 4DX, 
and VIP screens.
Our brands
UK and Ireland
Central & Eastern Europe and Israel
At a Glance
898 SCREENS / 90 SITES
937 SCREENS / 97 SITES
70 SCREENS / 22 SITES
106 SCREENS / 9 SITES 8
4
3
7
6
1
5
2
STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 3
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Theatre Operations
COUNTRY NO. OF CINEMAS SCREENS
1 UK & Ireland 112 968
2 Poland 33 354
3 Romania 22 198
4 Hungary 20 176
5 Czech Republic 13 115
6 Israel 9 106
7 Bulgaria 6 65
8 Slovakia 3 29
Total 218 2,011
UK, Ireland, Central Eastern Europe and Israel
In 2015, there were over 93 million customer admissions across 
all our cinemas. We are currently scheduled to open 465 screens 
over the next four years, 290 in CEE & Israel and 175 in the UK.
