  
18     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC
Financial review
2015 has been a year of progress. We achieved revenue growth across all sites, we improved 
gross profit margins, and we further reduced operating overheads; all of which contributed 
to a 42% reduction in total losses. These results were achieved through increasing patient 
volumes and cost savings across many areas of our business.        
Last year, for the first time, we reported a positive EBITDAR
1
. In 2015, we improved on this  
milestone with a positive EBITDAR of almost four times higher at £5.5 million, and a positive  
EBITDA of £1.8 million, excluding our Head Office recharges.  
As anticipated in the 2014 Annual Report, growth in revenue and improvement in operational 
efficiency continued at every hospital site in 2015. NHS patient volumes continue to grow 
as a result of patient choice and our support of surrounding NHS trusts. A key milestone 
was achieved in 2015 with CircleBath realising a full-year positive EBITDA of £0.3 million, 
a turnaround from EBITDA loss of £0.8 million in the prior year. CircleNottingham and 
CircleReading continue to experience encouraging organic growth. Compared to prior  
year, CircleNottingham’s EBITDA increased by 20% to £3 million, while CircleReading’s 
EBITDA loss reduced by 38% to £2.8 million. 
The Group generated an operating loss before exceptional and Project Reset items
2
 of  
£8 million, an improvement of 40% on 2014. We are pleased with the financial progress 
made in 2015, while maintaining patient satisfaction levels at 99%. This positive growth 
provides solid grounding for 2016 and beyond, as we seek to maximise the scale of our 
provisions to cater to the full patient experience.    
Patient procedures 
 Year to Year to 
 31 December 31 December   
 2015 2014 
 Number Number Change
Day case and inpatients   48,433 45,173  7%
Outpatients  292,472 269,316  9%
Total procedures  340,905  314,489  8%
Patient volumes continue to grow at a steady rate, particularly NHS volumes, as more 
patients are actively selecting Circle as their healthcare provider of choice. At CircleReading 
and CircleBath, NHS e-Referral orthopaedic appointments booked have risen on average 
40% and 11% respectively, year-on-year. This reflects our growing orthopaedic market share.
Total day case and inpatient volumes increased by 7% on prior year. Particularly 
encouraging growth in inpatients was seen at CircleNottingham, where the number of 
inpatients increased by more than threefold on prior year. In addition, CircleNottingham  
has achieved year-on-year growth of 6%, which is very pleasing for a mature asset. 
Fee pressures were evident across the market in 2015, and we expect these to continue. 
After consecutive years of decreasing NHS tariffs, we take note of Monitor’s proposal for  
the 2016/17 financial year
3
. 
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     19
CHIEF FINANCIAL  
OFFICER’S REPORT
 
* Indicative times.
BEDFORDSHIRE MSK  
PATIENT PATHWAY
Patient has osteoarthritic knee requiring community treatment
.
Clinical triage in CircleBedfordshire 
Integrated MSK Service
Referred to community
First GP appointment
Waiting time:  
24 hours
Waiting time:  
3 weeks
*
Waiting time:  
1–4 weeks
*
Closing cash balance  
as at year-end
£15M
All business segments  
are now reporting positive 
EBITDA of
Total day case and inpatient 
volumes increased by
£1.8M
+7%
Excluding Head Office
    BEFORE
PRE-CIRCLE MSK PATIENT PATHWAY
Time to right treatment: 20–35 weeks
Patient experience: Poor
•	 Non-integrated	patient	path way	 with	no	standar dised	
assessment of patients to ensure correct clinical pathway 
delivered first time.
•	 No	independent	assessment	 of	patients	leading	 to	
unnecessary surgeries. 
•	 High	cost	settings	 for	patients	 tr eated	in	a	hospital	setting.	
    AFTER
THE CIRCLE MSK PATIENT PATHWAY
Time to right treatment: 1–7 weeks
Patient experience: Excellent
•	 P atient	path way	now	integrated	 with	patients	r eceiving	
clinical triage within 24 hours of referral.
•	 Initial	assessments	b y	independent	specialised	staff	lead	 
to reduced number of unnecessary surgeries
•	 Incr ease	in	low-cost	 tr eatments	such	as	ph ysiotherap y , 
while delivering improved quality of life for patients. 
•	 Man y	pr ocedur es	shifted	away	 fr om	high-cost	hospitals	 
into community setting. 
Total waiting time:  
1–7 weeks
Patient experience:  
Excellent
Consultation – pain 
injection administered
Physiotherapy 20     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     21
CHIEF FINANCIAL  
OFFICER’S REPORT
Continued
Like-for-like gross margin is at 34% for 
the year ended 2015, compared to 33% in 
2014. After removing the one-off impact 
of benefits received in 2014 in relation to 
the old Nottingham contract, like-for-like 
margins improved by 3% in the period.  
Group EBITDAR continues to improve  
at an encouraging rate, rising by nearly 
four times the EBITDAR of the prior year. 
EBITDA loss has also more than halved.  
The improvement in performance is  
driven by EBITDA progress across all 
hospital sites and facilities. 
The Bedfordshire MSK service operated for 
a full financial year in 2015, and completed 
its first year of operation in April 2015. The 
operational challenges that we faced in 
2014 have been largely resolved, and we 
can now concentrate on implementing our 
planned initiatives to improve care and 
reduce surgeries in a growing population. 
We are pleased that this success led  
to EBITDA of £1.3 million. In a capped 
budget model where overall activity  
was up 17% since calendar year 2013, 
this represents benefits genuinely shared 
between the independent provider and 
the NHS commissioner. We also continue 
to work closely with the CCG to engage 
Bedford GPs to utilise the referral process 
managed by Circle.
The Company issued initial allocations of 
options under its Management Incentive 
Plan (‘MIP’) and Partnership Incentive Plan 
(‘PIP’) share schemes during 2015. The total 
share option charge recognised in 2015 
amounted to £2.5 million. 
Together with 11.5 million 2016 convertible 
shares that will automatically convert into 
ordinary shares of the Company in June 
2016, up to 20 million options may vest 
and become eligible to exercise in 2016 
(approximately 13 million of which are 
subject to performance conditions that 
may or may not be satisfied). Both the 
2016 convertible shares and the ordinary 
shares into which these options will be 
exercised are currently issued and held  
by the Circle Partnership Benefit Trust  
(the ‘CPBT’), on behalf of scheme 
beneficiaries, and are non-dilutive.
With the aid of future plans to maximise 
scale, and also current strategies to reduce 
staffing costs, while simultaneously 
maintaining our high-quality clinical 
care, we are confident that we have the 
resources to achieve sustainable growth.              
Exceptional items
During 2015, net exceptional costs of  
£0.4 million were recognised in relation to:
•	 a gain due to lower than expected 
costs in 2014 for advisory fees to assist 
the Group’s consideration of potential 
acquisitions; and
•	 the IFRS 2 share-based charge on the 
share options awarded to the Group’s 
Chief Financial Officer.
Cash flow
Net cash outflow from operating  
activities amounted to £4.6 million (2014: 
£8.4 million), showing an improvement 
on prior year as a result of improved 
operational performance. 
At 31 December 2015, the only borrowings 
relate to finance leases of clinical equipment. 
Our cash flow forecasts have been prepared, 
based on the expected cash flows from the  
Group’s existing operating businesses, and  
the commitments associated with new 
projects, as discussed in the Chairman’s 
and Chief Executive Officer’s reports. 
Should any adverse variances to expected 
cash flows materialise, a number of actions 
could be taken to mitigate the negative 
impact. Actions include reducing Head 
Office costs, reducing the scale or timing 
of investment in new projects, or seeking 
further funding opportunities. There is  
also potential to generate additional capital 
through the sale of land in Manchester. 
We continue to evaluate our growth options 
to maintain a balance between capital 
requirements and potential returns. 
In early 2016, we marketed the sale of  
our land in Manchester. We expect to 
receive offers before we report again  
at the half year. 
Paolo Pieri
Chief Financial Officer
29 March 2016
       
 
CircleBath saw a total volume growth of 3% to 49,052. Average inpatient and day  
case revenue increased in both NHS and private medical insurance (‘PMI’) segments,  
due to changes in procedure mix, with a higher proportion of orthopaedic procedures  
than prior year. Growth in patient volumes at CircleReading was largely in specialties  
that are predominantly day case procedures. 
While we have seen strong growth in our NHS day case and inpatient procedure volumes 
across all three hospital sites, overall PMI volumes have remained flat with self-pay volumes 
falling slightly on prior year.
We have also seen a positive increase in outpatient volumes, increasing by 9% to 292,472 
year-on-year, with a corresponding 10% growth in outpatient revenues.
Overall, we are encouraged by the continuing steady growth at all our hospital sites. All 
assets, in particular CircleReading, have potential for increased utilisation, so as we move 
into 2016, we expect to see continued growth.
Group results
2015 continues the trend of positive growth from 2014. EBITDA loss before exceptional 
items reduced by more than half as the Group continues to grow in its core operations, 
while achieving operating efficiencies. Cash balance as at end of December was £15 million  
with no restricted cash reserves.
  Year to Year to  
  31 December 31 December    
  2015 2014 Difference Difference 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 %
Group revenue  127,790  110,983  16,807 15%
EBITDAR before  
exceptional items and  
Project Reset charge    5,530  1,152 4,378 380%
EBITDA before  
exceptional items and  
Project Reset charge    (4,915) (10,427)  5,512 (53%)
Total operating loss  
before exceptional items  
and Project Reset items   (7,967) (13,329)  5,362 (40%)
Exceptional items   (389)  (5,341)  4,952 (93%)
Loss and total  
comprehensive loss  
for the financial year   (11,656)  (20,155)  8,499 (42%)
Net assets    25,411  34,374  (8,963) (26%)
Like-for-like
4
 revenue increase at the current hospital sites was 11%, reflecting the strength 
of our core business. At CircleBath and CircleReading, 85% and 80% respectively of our 
revenues came from patients who chose these facilities through the NHS e-Referral system. 
While reassured by our progress on revenues, we acknowledge that gross margin growth 
has been slower to materialise than anticipated. This is partly due to challenges around 
agency costs and achieving sufficient scale, as addressed in the Chairman and CEO’s reports. 
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and rent, excluding exceptional and 
Project Reset items (Note: Project Reset items 
relate to the IFRS 2 share-based payment charge 
for share options granted to Circle employees and 
clinical partners).
2   Project Reset items relate to the IFRS 2 share-
based payment charge for share options granted  
to Circle employees and clinical partners. 
3   www.england.nhs.uk/resources/pay-syst/tariff-
consultation-notice/ 
4 Like-for-like revenue growth refers to revenue 
growth at CircleNottingham, CircleBath and 
CircleReading.
Patient volumes 
continue to grow at a 
steady rate, particularly NHS 
volumes, as more patients 
are actively selecting Circle  
as their healthcare provider  
of choice. 
PAOLO PIERI CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
ORTHOPAEDIC 
OPERATIONS
+19%
2011  
TO  
2015
Source: National Joint Registry ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     23 22     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC
 
“I HAD TO HAVE AN 
OPERATION AND WAS  
A BIT APPREHENSIVE.
I shouldn’t have been; every member of staff was very 
professional and efficient. The day care was extremely  
good and I can praise it to the highest order.”
VASCULAR PATIENT CIRCLEBATH
PROSTHESIS
78% OF
JOINT REPLACEMENTS 
USED STANDARDISED
CLINICAL  
ENGAGEMENT
CIRCLE TO FRIENDS AND FAMILY  
AS A PLACE TO WORK
RECOMMEND
80
%
OF STAFF 
WOULD
THE VALUE THAT WE PLACE ON  
OUR CLINICIANS HAS ALWAYS SET US  
APART FROM OTHERS IN OUR SECTOR.
In creating Circle, we realised that when you trust your staff to do well, when you  
give them the support and freedom to truly thrive in their role, they will be prepared  
to go that much further for patients. An empowered workforce is at the very heart  
of Circle’s business. In short, our staff are the reason we are successful.
MASSOUD FOULADI CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER 24     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC
 
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     25
MICHAEL KIRKWOOD CMG
Chairman (a), (b), (c)
*
Michael Kirkwood is an Economics and 
Industrial Engineering graduate of Stanford 
University and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers. He joined the Board 
of Circle Holdings plc as Chairman in June 
2011. He is additionally Senior Advisor 
(formerly Chairman) of Ondra Partners LLP, 
a non-executive director of AngloGold 
Ashanti Limited, and an Emeritus Director 
(formerly Chairman) of British American 
Business Inc.
Michael joined Citigroup in 1977 from 
where he retired at the end of 2008.  
Prior to Citigroup, he spent a number of 
years in Asia with Bowater-Ralli Group, 
having started his career at HSBC. He  
was previously a non-executive director  
of UK Financial Investments Ltd (UKFI),  
Eros International plc, Kidde plc, and Deputy  
Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers  
LLP’s Advisory Board. He is a member  
of the Advisory Board of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers and a patron 
of poverty housing charity, Habitat for 
Humanity. During his City career, he served 
as Deputy Chairman of the British Bankers 
Association, President of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers, Chairman of the 
Association of Foreign Banks, and as a 
member of the CBI’s Financial Services 
Council.
A Freeman and former HM Lieutenant for 
the City of London in 2004, Michael was 
appointed a Companion of the Order of  
St Michael and St George (CMG) in HM 
The Queen’s 2003 Birthday Honours.   
STEVE MELTON
Chief Executive Officer
Steve Melton was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer in December 2012, after 
previously holding the roles of Head of 
Mobilisation and Chief Operating Officer 
since joining Circle in 2008. Steve has 
over 30 years of experience leading 
transformational change and operations in 
the retail, consumer goods and healthcare 
sectors. Prior to Circle, he was the Supply 
Chain Director at Argos, where he also 
led a number of group-wide business 
excellence programmes.  
Previously, he was Supply Chain Director 
at Scottish Courage, and General Manager, 
Non-Food Supply Chain at Asda. He began 
his career on Unilever’s Management 
Trainee Programme and, subsequently, 
held a number of roles at Unilever, working 
internationally across the personal products 
business. Steve holds an MA (First Class) in 
Chemical Engineering from the University 
of Cambridge. 
PAOLO PIERI
Chief Financial Officer
Paolo Pieri joined Circle after spending 
over five years at lastminute.com. He 
spent the majority of this time as the  
UK Finance Director and, subsequently, 
took on a number of operational roles, 
including the Managing Director of  
some European divisions.
Prior to this, Paolo spent seven years in  
the Virgin organisation, principally within 
the retail and cinema operations, where  
he spent three years as Finance Director  
of the Virgin Megastore business.
Paolo has a Bachelor of Accountancy  
from Glasgow University, and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
for Scotland.
DR MASSOUD FOULADI
Chief Medical Officer
Dr Massoud Fouladi is a co-founder of 
Circle and Group Medical Director. He also 
serves as the initial director representative 
of the CPBT, the Group’s largest single 
shareholder.  
Massoud graduated from Bristol  
Medical School in 1990, and completed  
his ophthalmology training at Birmingham 
and Midland Eye Centre in 1999. He was 
also awarded a Masters in Health Services 
Management by Birmingham Health 
Services Management Centre in 1998.
In 2001, Massoud founded the Ophthalmic 
Clinical Leads Forum at the King’s Fund.  
He was Chairman of the Association of  
Ophthalmologists UK from 2003 to 
2007 . He remains an active consultant 
specialising in ophthalmic surgery.
LORRAINE BALDRY OBE
Senior Non-Executive Director 
(a), (b)
*
, (c)
Lorraine Baldry is Chairman of London  
and Continental Railways Limited, 
Schroders Real Estate Investment Trust, 
Inventa Partners Limited and Tri-Air 
Developments Limited. She is also a Board 
member of Thames Water Utilities Ltd. 
She was previously Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director of DTZ Holdings 
plc, and Chairman of the London Thames 
Gateway Development Corporation.
Prior to that, Lorraine was Chief Executive 
of Chesterton International plc, a senior 
advisor at Morgan Stanley, investment 
banking division, and Managing Director 
and a member of the Executive Committee 
of Regus. Lorraine joined Regus from 
Prudential Corporation, where she held 
a number of posts, including Managing 
Director of Prudential Corporate Pensions, 
Chief Operating Officer of Prudential 
Portfolio Managers (now M&G), and 
Managing Director of its property 
investment division.
She was awarded OBE in the Queen’s 
Jubilee Honours, and is an Honorary 
Member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors and a past president  
of the British Property Federation.
1
3
5
7
2
4
6
8
BOARD OF  
DIRECTORS
MICHAEL KIRKWOOD CMG
Chairman
STEVE MELTON
Chief Executive Officer
PAOLO PIERI
Chief Financial Officer
DR MASSOUD FOULADI
Chief Medical Officer
LORRAINE BALDRY OBE
Senior Non-Executive Director
LORD HUTTON OF FURNESS
Non-Executive Director 
JUSTIN JEWITT
Non-Executive Director 
ANDREW SHILSTON
Non-Executive Director 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5  
26     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     27
LORD HUTTON OF FURNESS
Non-Executive Director (b), (c)
Lord Hutton served as a member of the 
British House of Commons from 1992 to 
2010. During his time in government, he 
held several prominent Cabinet positions, 
including Secretary of State for Defence; 
Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform; 
and Work and Pensions. Lord Hutton was 
also a minister in the UK Department 
of Health from 1998 to 2005, where he 
helped lead the modernisation of the 
National Health Service. Prior to public 
service, Lord Hutton worked as a senior 
law lecturer at Northumbria University, 
and served as a legal adviser to the 
Confederation of British Industry.  
Between 2010 and 2011, Lord Hutton  
was the Chairman of the Independent 
Public Service Pensions Commission.
He is currently Chairman of the Nuclear 
Industry Association, a non-executive 
director of Sirius Minerals plc and Arthurian 
Life Sciences Ltd. Lord Hutton also holds 
advisory positions at Bechtel Corporation, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and Lockheed 
Martin. Lord Hutton graduated from 
Magdalen College, Oxford University,  
in 1978 with an MA and a Bachelor in  
Civil Law.
JUSTIN JEWITT
Non-Executive Director (a)
Justin Jewitt has extensive commercial 
knowledge and practical experience in 
the delivery and creation of public and 
private health services. He graduated from 
Leicester University in 1975, joining Mobil 
Oil Company Limited as a graduate trainee, 
where he occupied various roles for 12 
years. In 1986, he joined Thorn Emi  
plc in their retail/rental division, moving 
through various senior management roles. 
In 1992, Justin became Managing Director 
of two B.E.T plc companies, Laundrycraft 
and Initial Healthcare (Textile) Ltd. Justin 
joined Nestor Healthcare Group plc in 
1994, where he worked for 10 years as 
Chief Executive Officer of the Group, 
building it into a FTSE 250 listed company. 
Justin also held several non-executive 
director positions in both private and 
public healthcare companies. Justin is 
currently a visiting professor for the  
Welsh Institute for Health and Social  
Care, University of South Wales, a member 
on the Quality Committee of an NHS CCG, 
and a senior independent director of NHS 
Shared Business Services Ltd.   
ANDREW SHILSTON
Non-Executive Director (a)
*
, (b), (c)
Andrew Shilston graduated from the 
University of Oxford in 1977 with an MA 
in Engineering Sciences, and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of England and Wales, and a Fellow of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Andrew joined Rolls-Royce Group plc in 
2002 and was appointed Group Finance 
Director in 2003, where he remained 
until 2011. He was Finance Director at 
Enterprise Oil Ltd from 1993 to 2002.  
Andrew was an independent non-executive 
director of Cairn Energy plc between 2004 
and 2008, and is currently Chairman 
of Morgan Advanced Materials plc and 
Independent Non-Executive and Senior 
Independent Director of BP plc.
The Group financial statements 
consolidate the financial statements of 
Circle Holdings plc (the ‘Company’) and 
its subsidiary undertakings (‘subsidiaries’) 
drawn up to 31 December 2015. Together, 
these make up ‘Circle’ or the ‘Group’.
Principal activities
The Group is a provider of healthcare 
services in the UK, treating privately 
insured, self-pay and NHS-funded patients.  
The Group’s business strategy is founded 
on the belief that the best way to deliver 
great patient care is to empower the 
doctors, nurses and all other staff who  
work in our hospitals and treatment,  
to put patients’ needs first.  
Business review
The information that fulfils the 
requirements of the business review can 
be found in the operating review on pages 
10 to 15. Information on environmental 
matters, employees, community and social 
issues is given in the Report on corporate 
governance on pages 32 to 35.
Results and dividends
The total loss for the financial year amounted 
to £11,656,000 (2014: £8,055,000). The 
directors do not recommend the payment 
of any dividends (2014: £nil).
Cash flow
The total cash balance at 31 December 
2015 is £14,998,000 (2014: £24,496,000). 
Net cash used in operating activities 
totalled £4,642,000 (2014: £8,361,000).
Share capital and control
As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s 
authorised share capital comprised 
325,000,000 (2014: 325,000,000) 
ordinary shares of £0.02 each, 12,500,000 
convertible shares (18 months) of £0.02 
each, and 12,500,000 convertible shares 
(18 months) of £0.02 each, of which 
247 ,797 ,188 (2014: 247 ,797 ,188) (note 22) 
were in issue. Shareholders are entitled 
to receive the Company’s Annual Report 
and financial statements, attend and speak 
at general meetings, appoint proxies, and 
exercise voting rights. The Company’s shares 
do not carry any special rights with regard 
to control of the Company. 
The appointment and replacement of 
directors is governed by the Company’s 
Articles of Association. Any changes to the 
Articles of Association must be approved 
by the shareholders in accordance with 
the legislation in force at the time. The 
directors have authority to issue and  
allot ordinary shares pursuant to Article 7  
of the Company’s Articles of Association.
Policy and practice on 
payment of creditors
It is the Group’s and Company’s policy 
to abide by the payment terms agreed 
with suppliers wherever it is satisfied 
that the supplier has provided goods and 
services in accordance with agreed terms 
and conditions. A number of significant 
purchases and commitments under 
operating leases are paid by direct debit. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group had 
20 equivalent days (2014: 30 days) of 
purchases outstanding, and the Company 
had 16 equivalent days (2014: 46 days).
At 31 December 2015, trade creditors in 
the Group and Company were £6,840,000 
and £59,000 respectively (2014: £6,666,000 
and £133,000).
Going concern
The consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared on a going concern 
basis, which assumes that the Group will 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. The directors have 
prepared cash flow forecasts for a period  
of not less than 12 months from the date 
of the signing of the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
These forecasts have been prepared based  
on the expected cash flows from the Group’s 
existing operating businesses, as well as  
the commitments associated with new 
projects as discussed on pages 10 to 11. 
Management believes that if any significant 
variances from the underlying assumptions 
of the forecasts were to materialise, the 
negative impact to cash flows could be 
mitigated by undertaking a number of 
actions, including reducing Head Office 
costs, reducing the scale or timing of 
investment in new projects, or seeking 
further funding opportunities. The directors 
are also seeking to generate further capital 
through the sale of land in Manchester.
The Company continues to evaluate 
growth options available in the market, 
and ensures a balance between capital 
requirements and potential returns. 
Accordingly, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company 
has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future, and conclude that it is appropriate 
for these accounts to be prepared on a 
going concern basis.
Events after the  
balance sheet date
In January 2016, marketing for the sale of 
the land held by Health Properties (South 
Manchester) Limited commenced. It has 
a carrying value of £5,000,000, and the 
directors believe the sales proceeds will 
support the carrying value.
Directors
The directors who served during the year 
and up to the date of signing the financial 
statements were as per the table on the 
following page.
BOARD OF  
DIRECTORS
Continued
(a) Member of Audit and Risk Committee.
(b) Member of Remuneration Committee.
(c) Member of Nomination Committee.
* Denotes Chair of respective committee.
The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial  
statements for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
6
7
8
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT  
28     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     29
Biographies of the current directors are 
detailed on pages 24 to 26, and directors’ 
beneficial interests in the Group’s share 
capital and warrants are detailed on pages  
36 to 39 of the Directors’ remuneration 
report.
Directors’ indemnity
In its Articles of Association, the Company 
has granted an indemnity to every present  
and former officer in respect of proceedings  
brought by third parties. The Company has 
procured liability insurance for all directors 
and officers of the Company, and all Group 
companies. There are no outstanding claims 
or provisions as at the balance sheet date.
Donations
The Group made charitable donations 
totalling £845 (2014: £1,142) during 
the year to a number of charitable 
organisations within the UK. 
No donation was made to any political 
party registered in the UK under the  
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums  
Act 2000 by either the Company or its 
subsidiaries.
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
Enterprise risk identification  
and management
The Group has an effective system of risk 
management in terms of identifying risks 
and monitoring actions to manage these 
risks. Further details of the Group’s risk 
management process can be found in the 
Report on corporate governance on pages 
32 to 35.
Risk is an unavoidable element of doing 
business. The Group’s risk management 
system aims to provide assurance to  
the Board regarding the effectiveness 
of the Group’s ability to manage risk. 
The system includes the controlled 
prioritisation of issues; review of key 
operational metrics in relation to 
clinical outcomes, patient experience, 
staff engagement and value for money 
(together known as the Quality Quartet 
[‘QQ’] review); mitigation; sharing of best 
practice and effective crisis management.
The following provides an overview of  
the principal business risk factors facing 
the Group, along with a description, where 
relevant, of the mitigating actions in place.
Financial risks
The Group’s operations expose it to a 
variety of financial risks that include 
working capital and funding risk. The 
Group has implemented a comprehensive 
strategic planning and budgeting system 
to monitor and limit the adverse effects 
of the below risks, the results of which are 
presented to and approved by the Board. 
Management and the Board monitor 
performance against budget and key 
financial benchmarks through monthly 
reporting routines, detailed business 
reviews and variance analysis.
Working capital and funding risk 
Working capital and funding risk is the 
risk that the Group will encounter in the 
event of difficulty in meeting obligations 
associated with financial liabilities, or will 
be unable to obtain sufficient funding to 
pursue its growth plans and expansion 
opportunities. The Group aims to mitigate 
this risk by robustly managing cash 
generation across its operations through 
detailed budgeting and tight cost control, 
as well as applying cash collection targets 
throughout the Group. Where the need 
arises, significant cost savings are made  
in the short term by reducing Head Office  
costs. The Group is also backed by leading 
UK institutional investors that have provided  
finance through several financing rounds 
over the past 11 years.
Contract risk
Contract risk exists where the Group is 
unable to renew the NHS contracts at the 
end of their fixed tenure. The Group aims 
to mitigate this risk by maintaining good 
relationships with contracting parties and 
actively pursuing contract renewals and 
extensions ahead of time. During 2013, 
the Group won the retender to provide 
renewed services at the Nottingham NHS 
Treatment Centre for a further five years 
until July 2018. The Group also operates a 
five-year integrated MSK service contract 
in Bedfordshire, which ends in March 2019.
Owing to the complexity of delivering 
NHS-funded services, there is inherent 
contractual risk arising from the Group’s 
existing NHS contracts. Default and 
termination of these contracts could  
occur as a result of clinical or operational 
failures. The Group continues to mitigate 
these risks by focusing on its business 
model of delivering high-quality care  
at the best value.
Clinical quality risk
As with all medical providers, clinical 
quality risk is a major consideration. 
The Group has an integrated corporate 
governance structure which is chaired by 
the Chief Medical Officer, who also sits on 
the Board. This structure includes senior 
staff across the operational, clinical and 
central support teams. Each hospital site 
has its own local governance structure, 
while a team of clinical care quality 
specialists is dedicated to developing 
up-to-date and consistent clinical and 
operational policies across all sites.  
Local governance committees work to  
a rigorous assurance framework, manage 
day-to-day clinical risks through a risk 
register, provide appropriate training 
to staff and consultants, and report 
their findings to the Group’s Integrated 
Governance Committee (‘IGC’). This 
committee, in turn, provides written  
risk assurance reports to the Boards  
of the relevant Circle Group companies  
and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Price risk
The Group generally seeks to price 
contracts at levels that take account of 
increasing prices and, where appropriate, 
establish contract terms that enable 
revenues to be adjusted as a result of 
any future increasing price levels. As 
the volume of patients is anticipated to 
increase, the Group will be increasingly 
subject to pricing changes from private 
insurance companies and the NHS  
pricing tariff.
The Bedfordshire MSK contract operates  
under a capped revenue budget. The 
underlying principle assumes that the 
service can be run more efficiently, 
improving the patient experience and 
reducing operational costs. Nevertheless, 
the Group bears the risk of rising operational 
prices as the baseline revenue is fixed, 
subject to local demographic or service 
portfolio changes.
Government policy  
and regulatory risk
There are risks that political or policy 
changes may mean that the number and 
size of contracts awarded to the Group 
are diminished, and that fewer services 
provided by the Group are contracted  
by the public sector.  
New regulations may be introduced  
which could have an adverse effect on  
the Group’s operational and compliance 
costs. In addition, the Group relies on the 
ability and willingness of government-
funded bodies, such as CCGs and NHS 
trusts, to pay for the Group’s services.
Reputational risk
Reputational risk associated with poor 
clinical outcomes or patient satisfaction  
is mitigated by the focus on providing 
high-quality medical care at the Group’s  
facilities, and constantly seeking to improve 
clinical services through the activities  
of the IGC and the QQ reviews.
Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
29 March 2016  
Steve Melton Chief Executive Officer
Massoud Fouladi Chief Medical Officer
Paolo Pieri Chief Financial Officer
Michael Kirkwood CMG Non-Executive Chairman (independent)
Lorraine Baldry OBE Senior Non-Executive Director (independent)
Andrew Shilston Non-Executive Director (independent)
Lord Hutton of Furness Non-Executive Director (independent)
Justin Jewitt Non-Executive Director (independent) 
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT
Continued 30     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     31
OUR TELEDERM SERVICE, 
LAUNCHED IN AUTUMN 2015, 
gives GPs in Nottingham a specialist bit of equipment – a dermatoscope – attached  
to a very common technology – an iPhone. 
The practice takes images of a skin condition, and sends it in to our team for review.  
They are checked within 48 hours, and either asked to come in to hospital, or told it’s 
not urgent and can be treated in primary care.
This way, we speed up diagnosis of conditions, and can fast-track patients with 
conditions like skin cancer – but ensure that those who have 
benign conditions don’t unnecessarily see a consultant, and 
don’t spend weeks worrying they might have a serious illness. 
The overall effect is faster care, better care, and cheaper care.
NIKKI LUCAS TELEDERM LEAD, CIRCLENOTTINGHAM
“One of our big successes in Bedfordshire has 
been an outcomes app for physios. Previously, 
outcomes were not being formally monitored, 
and physios were understandably resistant to 
time-consuming form-filling. So, we deployed 
an app where they can type in outcomes on a 
tablet while they’re with the patient, and send 
it in to the Circle team – so we have a data-rich 
understanding of quality in 
community care. Thanks to 
this technology, we’re now 
able to steer physios across 
the county towards the 
best outcomes and share 
best practice.”
ZARA THOMAS MSK 
TECHNOLOGY LEAD, 
CIRCLEBEDFORDSHIRE MSK
INNOVATION
 
WE ARE 
DELIGHTED TO  
PARTNER WITH CIRCLE, 
who have a proven track record of innovation in 
healthcare delivery. Our plans are to focus on creating  
and adopting new technologies from around the world 
into the UK healthcare market – which is facing 
unprecedented pressures on its finances. We felt 
that Circle were the best partner to work with.
RAJIB BHATTACHARYA VICE PRESIDENT,  
TECH MAHINDRA
ONE ANSWER 
TO THE NHS’ 
EFFICIENCY 
CHALLENGE  
IS TO USE TECHNOLOGY 
TO MAKE SURE 
CONSULTANTS’ TIME IS  
FOCUSED.
  32     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     33
General
The Company, being quoted on AIM, is not 
required to comply with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’). Nevertheless, the directors are 
committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance, and have voluntarily 
complied with elements of the Code issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council where 
relevant and appropriate to the Company. 
As envisaged by the Code, the Board has 
established three committees: an Audit 
and Risk Committee, a Remuneration 
Committee and a Nomination Committee. 
In addition, the Board has authorised a 
Market Disclosure Committee and the 
IGC, with the latter reporting on clinical, 
operational and financial matters into 
the Audit and Risk Committee. These 
committees operate within defined terms 
of reference, as determined by the Board, 
details of which are publicly available at 
the Group’s registered office. The functions 
and responsibilities of each committee are 
described below, and the members of each 
committee are listed in the biographies of 
the Board of Directors on pages 24 to 26.
The Board
The Board of Directors comprises a non-
executive chairman, four independent non-
executive directors, and three executive 
directors (Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Medical Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer). The profiles of the current 
executive directors and non-executive 
directors are set out on pages 24 to 26.  
The Articles of Association allow no  
fewer than three directors.
The Code recommends that the Board 
should comprise at least two non-executive 
directors, determined by the Board to be  
independent in character and judgement, 
and free from relationships or circumstances  
which may affect, or could appear to affect,  
the directors’ judgement. The Board 
considers that the Company complies with  
the requirements of the Code in this regard.
The non-executive directors contribute a 
wide range of skills and experience, forming 
a strong and independent element within 
the Board. The non-executive directors 
receive a fixed fee for services rendered, 
are appointed for an initial period of 
three years, which may be extended by 
agreement with the Board, are subject to 
re-election by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’), and are not 
employees of the Company at the time. 
Their opinions carry significant weight 
in the decision-making processes, both 
operational and financial, and they are free 
from any business or personal relationships 
that could interfere with their independent 
judgement. The non-executive directors 
ensure that some meetings are set aside 
during the year without the executive 
directors present. Lorraine Baldry OBE,  
is the nominated senior independent non-
executive director to whom shareholders, 
directors and employees may raise 
concerns which normal channels have 
failed to resolve or are otherwise not 
appropriate.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership 
of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness 
in all aspects of the role, including:
•	 managing the Board;
•	 ensuring that sufficient time is allowed 
for the discussion of complex or 
contentious issues; 
•	 ensuring a regular evaluation of the 
performance of the Board as a whole, its 
committees and individual directors; and 
•	 taking the lead in identifying and 
meeting the development needs of 
individual directors and the Board  
as a whole.
The Board and its subcommittees meet 
at regular intervals throughout the year 
and have reserved for their consideration 
matters including:
• the responsibility for the overall strategy 
of the Group;
• significant capital expenditure projects, 
budget approval and any major financial 
proposals;
• ensuring effective systems of internal 
control and risk management;
• regulatory compliance;
• approval of public announcements and 
communications with shareholders;
• approval of the Annual Report and 
financial statements; and
• remuneration of key senior employees.
Detailed monthly operational, clinical 
and financial information is provided to 
the Board in a timely manner to enable 
it to discharge its duties. This includes 
information on the historic, budgeted 
and forecast financial performance of 
the business, as well as key performance 
indicators covering volumes, revenue and 
EBITDA, to allow the Board to challenge 
Group management effectively. A budget 
is agreed by the Board annually, and 
performance against budget is reported 
monthly.
The Board ensures that all directors  
receive appropriate training and induction, 
as required, and that they are able to take 
independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties. The Board may 
appoint a director and revoke or terminate 
the appointment of a director as it thinks 
fit. Any director so appointed shall offer 
himself or herself for reappointment at  
the first AGM following appointment. No 
director shall remain in office for longer 
than three years since their last election or 
re-election without submitting themselves 
for re-election. The shareholders may also 
remove a director by ordinary resolution.
Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee’s role is to 
assist the Board with the discharge of its 
responsibilities in relation to internal and 
external audits and controls, including 
reviewing the Group’s Annual Report and 
financial statements, considering the scope 
of the annual audit and the extent of the 
REPORT ON  
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON  
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
   
34     CIRCLE HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015     35
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a regular dialogue  
with fund managers, other investors 
and analysts, usually following the 
announcement of interim and final results, 
to ensure that the investing community 
receives a balanced and consistent view 
of the Group’s performance. The principal 
documents received by shareholders are  
the Interim Report, Annual Report and 
financial statements, and any circulars  
as appropriate. The Company’s AGM 
provides an opportunity to respond  
to shareholders’ questions.
Employee involvement
Circle is a socially responsible employer,  
and various initiatives are in place to 
ensure that staff are treated fairly as  
they are critical to its clinical, commercial 
and operational success. Communication  
is critical to employee relations, and the  
Group uses bi-weekly business updates 
with all sites present via teleconference to  
ensure employees are fully informed about  
plans and progress. Communications from  
the Human Resources Department notify 
all staff of any changes to personnel during 
the year. Semi-annual off-site meetings are 
held for management and directors to 
review strategy implementation and key 
business opportunities. Annual performance 
reviews are conducted for employees, and  
individual training and development needs  
are identified to ensure staff receive 
supplementary training.
The Group is 25% owned by the  
CPBT, which holds shares on behalf of 
employees and clinicians who work in  
the Group’s facilities, and who receive 
share options linked to their performance. 
This performance-based incentive scheme 
strengthens our identity and ethos as an 
employee co-owned company.
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to 
applications for employment from disabled 
persons, where the candidate’s particular 
aptitudes and abilities are consistent with 
adequately meeting the requirements of 
the job. Opportunities are available to 
disabled employees for training, career 
development and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled,  
it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing 
employment wherever practicable in the 
same or an alternative position, and to 
provide appropriate training to achieve  
this aim.
Equality 
Circle seeks to be a socially responsible 
Group which has a positive impact on 
the communities it operates in. We look 
to employ a workforce which reflects the 
diversity of the Group’s communities. 
No discrimination is tolerated, and we 
endeavour to give all employees the 
opportunity to develop their capabilities.
Environmental matters
The services provided by the Group  
have minimal environmental impact. 
However, the Board believes that good 
environmental practices support the 
Group’s strategy by enhancing the 
reputation of the Group and improving 
the efficiency of running hospitals. 
Consequently, the Group continues  
to put environmental responsibilities  
high on the agenda.
The Group and its employees try to 
ensure that both services and products 
are procured in an environmentally 
friendly manner, and that waste materials 
are disposed of appropriately, including 
recycling where economically possible.  
The Group makes extensive use of electronic 
communications to reduce the amount of  
printing waste produced. Where appropriate, 
electronic communication methods such 
as email, telephone and video conference 
facilities are used to avoid non-essential 
travel. The Group does not offer a Company  
car scheme to employees, and encourages 
its employees to travel to work using public  
transport or a ‘bike-to-work’ scheme.
Ethical conduct
The Board is committed to uphold ethical 
conduct throughout the Group, and has  
in place confidential whistleblowing and  
anti-bribery policies that enable unresolved  
concerns to be escalated to the Board’s 
senior independent non-executive director. 
These policies are made available to all  
employees via a web-based policy 
management system that enables  
periodic monitoring.
Health and safety
The Group is committed to protecting 
and enhancing the health and safety 
of its employees, and all patients who 
are treated in the facilities it operates. 
The Group operates a formal health and 
safety risk assurance framework, which is 
regularly monitored by a dedicated health 
and safety officer who provides monthly 
reports to the management teams at the 
operational level, and quarterly reports 
to the Group’s IGC. Under the framework, 
significant incidents are reported without 
delay to the Board.
Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman
29 March 2016
non-audit work undertaken by external 
auditors, advising on the appointment 
of external auditors, reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal control 
systems in place within the Group, and 
determining and reviewing the nature  
and extent of the risks facing the Group.  
The Audit and Risk Committee meets  
not less than four times a year.
The Code recommends that all members 
of the Audit and Risk Committee be 
non-executive directors, and that the 
committee is not chaired by the Chairman 
of the Board. The Company complies with  
the requirements of the Code in this regard.
Reporting into the Audit and Risk 
Committee is the IGC, which is chaired 
by the Chief Medical Officer, Dr Massoud 
Fouladi, who also sits on the Board. Further 
details are provided in the principal risks 
and uncertainties section of the Directors’ 
report on pages 28 to 29.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee recommends 
policies the Group should adopt on executive 
remuneration, determines the levels of 
remuneration for each of the executive 
directors, and is also invited to attend 
meetings of the Remuneration Committee  
of Circle Health Limited. The Remuneration 
Committee generates an annual 
remuneration report to be approved  
by the members of the Company at the 
AGM. The minutes of the Remuneration 
Committee are circulated to, and reviewed 
by, the Board. The Remuneration Committee 
meets not less than twice a year, and the 
Directors’ remuneration report is set out  
on pages 36 to 39.
The Code recommends that all members  
of the Remuneration Committee be  
non-executive directors, and the Group 
complies with the requirements of the 
Code in this regard.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the 
Board in determining its composition, 
desired balance of skills and potential 
Board candidates as the need may  
arise, and formulates the succession  
plans for the Chairman. It recommends 
to the Board the succession plans for the 
Chief Executive Officer. The Nomination 
Committee meets at least once a year 
and whenever necessary to fulfil its 
responsibilities. 
The Code recommends that a majority  
of the Nomination Committee be  
non-executive directors, and the Group 
complies with the requirements of the  
Code in this regard.
Market Disclosure Committee
The Market Disclosure Committee  
assists the Group in meeting its obligations 
to announce price-sensitive and other 
significant information, and decide quickly 
whether an announcement obligation has 
arisen under the AIM Rules for Companies 
and related legislation. 
The Code does not require companies  
to have a Market Disclosure Committee, 
but the directors consider it best practice 
to have such a committee.
Performance evaluation  
and attendance
The Board has undertaken a formal 
evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees through 
the circulation and completion of a 
comprehensive questionnaire. Having 
considered the results of the questionnaire, 
the directors have concluded that the 
Board and its committees continue to 
function effectively, and that the other 
commitments of the Chairman and 
directors are such that all directors  
are capable of devoting sufficient  
time to the Company.
Attendance by the directors at the various 
committees during the year was as follows:
     Market  
    Disclosure Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination 
   Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Lorraine Baldry   11 N/A 4 4 3
Massoud Fouladi   10 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Lord Hutton   10 N/A N/A 3 2
Justin Jewitt   11 N/A 4 N/A N/A
Michael Kirkwood   11 2 N/A 4 3
Steve Melton   11 2 N/A N/A N/A
Paolo Pieri   11 2 N/A N/A N/A
Andrew Shilston   11 N/A 4 4 3
Total meetings held   11 2 4 4 3
REPORT ON CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
Continued
