 STRATEGIC REPORT
8
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
As a Group, we are committed 
to ensuring our customers have 
the best possible experience 
when visiting our cinemas.
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer
Our Strategy
As a Group, we are committed to ensuring our customers 
have the best possible experience when visiting our cinemas. 
The Cineworld Group continues to be “The Best Place to 
Watch a Movie”. 
Our strategy is to: 
• Deliver a great cinema experience for all cinemagoers, 
every time – to achieve this we invest in our existing 
estate, as well as identify new sites for expansion. The full 
experience of our cinemas starts with the best planning, the 
best technology, the best marketing and the best service;
• Expand our estate and look for profitable opportunities to 
grow – we have the financial capability to expand through 
the cash generative nature of our business and our debt 
facility, and have opened a record number of new sites 
during 2015; 
• With the integration of Cineworld and Cinema City 
successfully completed, we are committed to enhancing 
our existing estate and new sites, ensuring we deliver a 
consistent high quality offering across the Group; 
• Be leaders in the industry by offering customers the 
latest audio and visual technology – technical innovation 
has also allowed the Group to enhance the customer 
experience through premium formats such as IMAX, 3D, 
4DX, Superscreen and VIP. This gives our customers the 
opportunity at our larger sites, not only to choose which 
movie to see but also how to see it; and 
•  Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth plans 
in an efficient and effective way. 
Overall we have made significant progress in delivering 
our strategy during 2015, with the key developments 
summarised below. 
Customer Experience
We provide the films our customers want to see in the most 
appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology, 
with the right retail offerings and great customer service. 
Our cinemas now have up to six different offerings of how to 
watch movies; regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen 
and VIP theatres. 
During 2015, with the VIP experience in Israel, Poland, Romania 
and Hungary having proved a success, our first VIP experience 
was launched in the UK in Sheffield in December. Our VIP 
experience provides a premium offering to our customers 
from the moment they walk through the door, including access 
to a private lounge ahead of their movie screening where, as 
part of the ticket price they can enjoy unlimited buffet food 
and soft drinks before watching the movie in our dedicated 
auditoriums with luxurious reclining seats. The VIP experience 
will be rolled out to further cinemas across the Group where 
there is opportunity in the market. 
The Group has increased the number of Starbucks coffee 
outlets in the UK, taking the total number to 17 at 31 December 
2015 with further outlets planned for 2016. 
The Cineworld Unlimited programme provides our customers 
with a range of benefits, while at the same time being one of 
the pillars that underpins our strategy for growing revenues 
and admissions. With regular subscription income it reduces 
the level of fluctuations in our revenues for the Group. It also 
brings operational benefits by encouraging repeat visits, 
often at off-peak times. We commenced the expansion of 
our Unlimited programme, with its launch in Poland at the 
end of 2015. 
Cinema Expansion 
During 2015 we opened a record number of 18 cinemas, 
10 in the UK and 8 in CEE & Israel and we have a further 
45 development sites contractually scheduled to open in the 
next four years, 13 which are scheduled for opening in 2016 
and nine of which are already under construction. As half of 
the new sites were opened in the second half of 2015 the full 
benefit to the Group will not be realised until 2016. 
The rate of new cinema openings is dependent upon local 
market conditions. Mature markets such as the UK and Israel 
tend to be characterised by higher admissions per capita, 
higher average ticket prices and a much lower population 
per screen ratio. In the more mature markets, the rate of new 
cinema openings has been slower in recent years, partly due 
to the limited number and associated lead time of new retail 
and leisure developments. Despite this the Group successfully 
opened 11 sites in the more mature markets during 2015. 
Growth markets have the opposite characteristics including 
lower admissions per capita and lower average ticket prices 
but do provide greater investment potential for the Group. 
There is clear potential upside as the habit of going to the 
cinema becomes more established and ticket prices increase 
with the standard of living. There are a great number of 
development opportunities, such as in Romania where we 
have invested significantly during 2015 and will continue 
to do so in 2016.  STRATEGIC REPORT
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
 9
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Enhancement of the Existing Estate
The estate in the UK is generally older than that of Cinema City 
in the CEE and Yes Planet in Israel. A number of key sites were 
identified for refurbishment to ensure our high standards are 
consistently maintained across our estate. This programme 
commenced during the second half of 2014, with the 
redevelopment of our Milton Keynes cinema, and continued 
throughout 2015. Milton Keynes was successfully re-launched 
in January 2015 and included the UK’s first 4DX screen, the 
new additional sensory cinema concept which had proved 
popular with customers in our other territories. The Milton 
Keynes site became a blue-print for future developments 
in the UK, with a Superscreen, the first 4DX experience 
and a Starbucks.
During the period we also completed the refurbishment of 
the Shaftesbury Avenue site and this was re-launched as 
Picturehouse Central, our flagship Picturehouse cinema in 
the West End. Other refurbishments completed during 2015 
included Sheffield (UK), Letnany (Czech Republic), Slovansky 
Dum (Czech Republic) and Yes Planet Haifa (Israel). The 
refurbishment programme will continue across the Group 
during 2016. 
Digital Film and Technological Innovation
During 2015 we opened seven 4DX screens, three in the UK, 
Milton Keynes, Crawley and Sheffield and four in the CEE & 
Israel – Yes Planet Haifa (Israel), Yes Planet Jerusalem (Israel), 
Bucharest Mega Mall (Romania) and Constanta City Park 
(Romania). We now have a total of 14 4DX screens across the 
Group. We are delighted to have provided this new technology 
to cinemagoers and look forward to continuing the expansion 
of the service with a pipeline of a further 10 4DX screens 
scheduled to open in 2016. 
In addition to the introduction of 4DX, we have expanded 
the IMAX format across a selection of our sites which remains 
popular, especially for films such as “Star Wars: The Force 
Awakens”, “Spectre” and “Jurassic World”. We opened three 
IMAX screens during the year in Broughton and Solihull – 
Birmingham NEC (UK) and at Yes Planet Jerusalem (Israel). 
By the end of 2015, the Group was operating 28 IMAX screens 
in total, with a further two scheduled to open in 2016 in Israel 
and Romania, and more in the pipeline. 
When the Group moved to digital projection, an agreement 
was entered into with the main Hollywood studios (via an 
agent in the UK) to recoup our investment in digital projection 
equipment by the Virtual Print Fee Mechanism (“VPF”). The 
small amount of remaining VPF income from the UK contract 
is expected to be earned during 2016 and therefore there will 
be no VPF income in the UK from the 2017 onwards.
From May 2015 we started to roll out the updates to our 
Cineworld UK website by location and will continue this during 
2016. As the trend of booking online continues, in 2016 we will 
develop our mobile app to provide our customers with greater 
visibility of our offerings and allow bookings to be made more 
quickly and easily on the move. During the year we have also 
centralised our customer call centres in Poland and enhanced 
our customer relationship management database to provide 
a consistent service across the Group.
Value for Shareholders
Through our focus on driving revenues, increasing profits 
and prudently managing our cash position we have been 
able to continue rewarding our shareholders with growth 
in both the dividend and adjusted diluted earnings per 
share, 29.6% and 28.7% respectively. 
Future
We devote a considerable amount of time to assessing new 
site opportunities and this, along with further acquisitions 
is a key part of our future growth strategy. 
I am happy to say that when we look forward, we can do so 
with optimism. We have great cinemas being run by a great 
team. Hollywood looks more committed than ever to quality 
productions, which include many sequels as well as many 
original movies. Our upcoming UK cinemas will continue 
to be in the “new generation” style, with a large number 
of screens and a wide range of features to enable us to give 
our customers a great experience. This is accompanied by 
a great line-up of new cinemas in our other territories. 
Overall, the film slate for 2016 looks solid, and includes a 
strong family film slate. Notable releases include “Fantastic 
Beasts And Where To Find Them”, “The BFG”, “Star 
Wars: Rogue One”, “Captain America: Civil War”, “X-Men: 
Apocalypse”, “Batman v Superman” “Finding Dory”, “The 
Secret Life of Pets”, “Ice Age 5”, “Angry Birds”, “Warcraft” 
and “Alice Through The Looking Glass”. 
Last but for sure not least, I would like to thank the whole 
Cineworld team across all nine territories for their great work 
in 2015 and wish them all many more successful years to 
come. Teamwork is the secret of our success and the key 
to our future. 
Mooky Greidinger 
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2016
