 10 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Chief executive’s review
Challenge and opportunity have been our watchwords  
in 2015. The global shipping and offshore markets have 
faced severe challenges throughout the course of the year 
as the shift in oil and other commodity prices, coupled  
with the macro-economic environment, gave rise to a 
consequential change in the demand/supply balance in 
many market sub-sectors. Whilst these dynamics have 
regularly made global news headlines in 2015 and their 
impact has undoubtedly been felt by all connected to the 
sector, we must remember that ours is an industry which 
has experienced unparalleled market volatility over the 
years. At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic focus on 
developing ‘best in class’ client service, coupled with our 
unique product breadth and global reach, has allowed  
us to face these headwinds again and continue to invest  
in our business, ensuring we are positioned for future 
opportunity in whichever marine market it shows.
Despite the turbulent market environment, we have 
remained focused on our strategy for long-term growth  
and at the start of 2015 we were delighted to announce  
the completion of the transformational acquisition of  
RS Platou ASA (Platou) which has taken our capability and 
client offer to a new level. Both businesses are incredibly 
complementary with very little overlap in terms of service 
offer and geographic reach. The pace of integration has 
been good and over the course of the year we have 
successfully integrated our two businesses. Where each 
company had operations in the same city; Oslo, New York, 
Singapore and Dubai, we have brought together our teams 
into one office. We now have international reach across  
20 countries through 46 offices, underpinning our ability  
to provide clients with invaluable global reach and insight  
at a local level. 
As our business stands today our truly integrated service 
spans broking, financial, support and research in all the  
key global shipping and offshore sectors and across all 
areas of financing; public equity, private equity, debt capital 
markets, M&A, restructuring project finance and bank debt 
advisory. During the year we completed the rebranding of 
our broking and financial services operations as Clarksons 
Platou to reflect the strength of both brands in their 
respective marketplaces. This has further enhanced our 
‘best in class’ position as we are now a market leader  
in each of our operations. 
In the multi-cyclical shipping markets, this breadth of 
product offer is vital as our performance in 2015 has shown. 
The dry cargo markets have remained severely depressed, 
reflecting the slowdown in Chinese economic output, and 
the low oil price continues to put offshore operators under 
significant pressure. However, in contrast, the tankers, 
specialised products and gas markets have all performed 
well and the Clarksons teams have been at the forefront of 
market activity, once again taking increased market share. 
As we highlighted over the course of the year, activity  
levels in the maritime capital markets have been negatively 
impacted. These markets became increasingly difficult in the 
second half of 2015 and volumes across Clarksons Platou 
Securities were substantially down on 2014. However, our 
teams have worked hard to maintain their leading positions 
for capital raising in the energy and maritime industries and 
completed a significant proportion of the corporate activity 
which took place in the sector. It is encouraging to see that 
even in these very difficult markets we have still been able to 
leverage our product portfolio and work closely with clients 
from our broking and support businesses, supporting them 
on the execution of their overall strategies. 
Our strong client relationships have been built through  
many years of being the market-leading provider. In tighter, 
more difficult markets there is often a move to work with the 
teams who have the expertise, market understanding and 
placing power to execute in the most difficult of markets and 
can fully support clients across all their service requirements. 
Research and analysis continue to play a crucial role  
in underpinning our full service client offer. We are the 
industry’s leading provider of data and market intelligence 
on the shipping and offshore industries and our trusted 
research team is by far the largest commercially-led unit  
in the maritime world. Despite the challenging markets,  
the increasing strength of our research business reflects  
the importance we and our clients place on this valuable 
market insight. 
Our long-standing focus and investment in technology  
has also ensured that the wealth of information across  
our business can be shared globally, further strengthening 
the quality of the offer and services that we can provide  
to our clients on a local basis. This is evident throughout  
all of our offices where open plan design and technology 
infrastructure is designed to facilitate the sharing of 
knowledge and expertise across both our different business 
divisions and global network to ensure a totally integrated 
and consistent global offer. 
We are a people business. The quality of the people in  
our business is exceptional and the integration of the  
Platou team has strengthened that further. The ‘Can Do’ 
attitude of our combined team, their professionalism, 
dedication, commitment and sheer determination has been 
remarkable and allowed us to seize opportunities even in 
difficult markets and I would like to thank each and every 
one of them for their hard work over the course of the year. 
As we look forward to 2016, the market outlook remains 
suppressed and the challenges in the dry cargo and 
offshore markets continue to dominate overall sentiment. 
However, our business model has proven to be robust  
and the strategic advances and investments we have 
continued to make ensure that we are ‘fit for the future’.  
As we continue to see building blocks for the creation  
of healthier shipping markets, we feel best placed to 
capitalise on new opportunities.
Strategic report www.clarksons.com 11
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic 
focus on developing ‘best in class’ client 
service, coupled with our unique product 
breadth and global reach, has allowed us  
to face these headwinds again and continue 
to invest in our business, ensuring we are 
positioned for future opportunity. Breadth Depth We offer a truly integrated service spanning 
broking, financial, support and research in all 
the key global shipping and offshore sectors  
and across all areas of financing; public equity, 
private equity, debt capital markets, project 
finance and bank debt advisory. We are the  
‘best in class’ intermediary across every sector 
of maritime trade and no single company is our 
lead competitor in more than one market.
Darin Wong
Sale and purchase broker  
Singapore
