 4 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Strategic report
Through the acquisition we have 
combined two leading businesses  
and highly experienced and proven 
management teams to create a fully 
integrated offer across shipping and 
offshore, broking and banking.
Chairman’s review www.clarksons.com 5
Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
People
The most important core strength of the group is the quality 
of our people, who constitute the heart of everything we do, 
and I am delighted to confirm that the integration process 
has gone well. The combined team now fields experts 
across the globe in every part of our business: shipping  
and offshore, banking and broking, research and support. 
Board
Following completion of the Platou acquisition, and as 
highlighted in my report last year, Peter M. Anker and Birger 
Nergaard joined the board. Their contribution and breadth  
of experience has been of great value.
During the course of the year we were delighted to 
announce the appointment of Jeff Woyda as chief operating 
officer of the group in addition to his role as chief financial 
officer. Jeff joined Clarksons in 2006 and has played a major 
role in the growth and development of the business in the 
last nine years. The board believes this appointment better 
reflects Jeff’s remit and role within the business. 
Outlook
The challenges witnessed across the global shipping 
markets have continued into 2016. The macro-economic 
environment remains very uncertain and as such we do  
not anticipate any changes to our markets in the near term.
Despite this backdrop, growth remains a central plank  
of our strategy. Market turbulence continues to drive a flight 
to quality which, as the market leader, we have benefited 
from. It has also encouraged the consolidation we have 
seen in the industry in recent years and of which we have 
been at the forefront. Over the course of 2015 we have 
taken significant strides to strengthen the fully integrated 
Clarksons’ offer with the very best people supported by 
valued research and unique technology, positioning our 
business for the long-term.
Overview
Whilst shipping and offshore markets have seen some  
good opportunities during 2015, overall there have  
been unprecedented challenges, so we are very pleased 
Clarksons has once again delivered a robust performance. 
Key to this has been sticking to our strategy of ‘best in 
class’ service offer, underpinned by unique breadth, global 
reach and the expertise of our people. Without losing sight 
of the really important day-to-day service, difficult times 
often require new solutions. The integrated tool box now 
available to clients, combined with real execution expertise, 
has been key to these results and is also essential for the 
way forward. 
On 2 February 2015 we completed the acquisition of  
RS Platou ASA (Platou), a leading international broker and 
investment bank, focused on the offshore and shipping 
markets. Through this acquisition we have combined two 
leading businesses and highly experienced and proven 
management teams to create a fully integrated offer across 
shipping and offshore, broking and banking. The board 
firmly believes that this deal sets new standards in the 
broking industry. The integration of our two businesses has 
continued at great pace over the course of the year and  
is now effectively complete. On behalf of the board I would 
like to congratulate the entire team across the business  
on this significant achievement. 
Results
The results in 2015 include 11 months’ contribution  
from Platou. 
Underlying profit before taxation was £50.5m (2014: 
£33.8m). Profit before taxation was £31.8m (2014: £25.2m). 
Underlying earnings per share was 121.9p (2014: 134.2p) 
resulting in basic earnings per share of 68.2p (2014: 91.9p).
Dividend
Clarksons has increased the dividend every year since  
2002 in line with its progressive dividend policy, and in 2015 
again Clarksons intends to raise the dividend paid to our 
shareholders. The board is recommending a final dividend of 
40p (2014: 39p). The interim dividend was 22p (2014: 21p), 
resulting in a 3% increase in the total dividend for the year  
to 62p (2014: 60p). The dividend will be payable on 3 June 
2016 to shareholders on the register at 20 May 2016, 
subject to shareholder approval.
Please see our business review on 
pages 14-27 for more information
