 2015 performance
Key performance indicators
Revenue
$1,490m +3%
Pre-exceptional operating profit
$139m +19%
Adjusted earnings per share
3.96c +38%
Adjusted free cash flow
$74m
(2014: $88m)
Return on capital employed
33% +900bps
Recordable accident rate  
(injuries per 100 FTE per year)
0.29
12% improvement on 2014
Employee engagement
83% +200bps
  For more information see 
key performance indicators 
on page 27.
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to report that in 2015 – our 
first year of reporting as Coats Group plc 
– we delivered a strong performance.
2015 performance
1
Coats’ revenues increased 3% to $1,490 
million in 2015 from $1,445 million. 
Industrial sales growth of 5% was driven 
by a strong performance in the Apparel and 
Footwear business, almost wholly driven 
by volumes given a challenging pricing 
environment, and product innovation and 
geographic expansion in the Speciality 
business despite tough conditions in the 
global oil and gas sector. Crafts sales fell 
6% to $277 million (2014: $295 million), 
reflecting tough comparators in the first 
half (impact of the decline in fashion 
handknittings demand) and the mild 
North American autumn/winter in 2015 
which impacted consumer demand. 
Pre-exceptional operating profit increased 
19% year-on-year to $139.4 million (2014: 
$117.0 million). Industrial profit grew 20% 
and margins were up 130 basis points 
(bps) to 11.1% due to strong volume 
growth, lower input prices, productivity 
and non-raw material procurement 
improvements (which more than offset 
labour and energy inflation). The 14% 
increase in Crafts profit was primarily due 
to lower input prices and cost reduction 
initiatives. Margins also benefited from 
lower Group costs year-on-year and initial 
cost savings from an overhead reduction 
programme that resulted from a review of 
our cost base following the disposal of the 
EMEA Crafts business. Operating profit, 
post-exceptional items, on a reported 
(actual currency) basis increased 7% to 
$111 million (2014: $103.4 million). 
Currency movements continued to 
impact results on both a translational 
and transactional basis throughout 2015. 
As we report in US Dollars and given that 
our global footprint generates significant 
revenues and expenses in a number of 
other currencies, a translational currency 
impact can arise. In 2015 a decline in 
Group sales of 5% on a reported (actual 
currency) basis reflected the strengthening 
of the US Dollar against a number of 
currencies, particularly the Euro and 
Brazilian Real. 
Financial summary
Adjusted earnings per share attributable to 
equity shareholders on a like-for-like basis 
increased by 38% to 3.96 cents (2014: 
2.88 cents). This was achieved by higher 
operating profit and a reduction in the 
underlying tax rate. We generated a 
reported attributable loss of $50.6 million 
(2014: $15.0 million profit), due to a 
significant loss ($75.5 million) from 
discontinued items related to the disposal of 
the loss-making EMEA Crafts business, as 
well as a higher level of exceptional charges. 
The disposal of EMEA Crafts, which 
generated a trading loss of $12.7 million 
in 2015, has improved the Group’s quality 
of earnings and returns and allowed 
management to better focus on the high 
performing global Industrial and strong 
Americas Crafts businesses. 
In 2015, Coats generated an adjusted free 
cash inflow of $73.9 million compared to 
$87.8 million in 2014. Higher operating 
profits, lower interest and tax paid were 
more than offset by the implementation of 
a revised supplier payment approach that 
negatively impacted working capital (see 
financial review section for more details). 
Total net cash at 31 December 2015 was 
$241 million, a year-on-year decline of 
$80 million, primarily due to foreign 
exchange losses on the parent group balance 
and the cash outflow related to EMEA Crafts 
and its disposal (although the cash cost was 
significantly lower than the impact on the 
income statement). 
Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) 
increased to 33% from 24% in 2014, driven 
by higher profitability and the disposal of 
EMEA Crafts, underpinning the rationale for 
disposing the loss-making business (2014: 
27% excluding EMEA Crafts). Over the last 
three years, ROCE increased 13 percentage 
points from 20% in 2013.
Group Chief Executive’s statement
In 2015 we delivered a strong 
performance with like-for-like  
operating profit growth of 19%.
Paul Forman
Group Chief Executive
1
  In the following commentary, all comparisons 
with 2014 are on a like-for-like currency basis 
(restates 2014 figures at 2015 exchange rates) 
and all references to operating profit are on 
a pre-exceptional basis.
Strategic report
10 Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 Core strengths
Operational and  
commercial expertise
Leading products  
and services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
3
1
Global market
leader with robust
fundamentals
Strong and
defendable core
 business 
2
Global
presence and
capabilities
Key differentiators
that provide a platform
for growth
Cash
generative:
consistent growth
Focus on sales,
earnings and free
cash ﬂow growth
5
4
Deﬁned
growth strategy
Targeting known markets 
through organic and
 acquisitive growth
Experienced
management team
Leadership, people and
systems to deliver growth
Benefits for stakeholders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
3
1
Global market
leader with robust
fundamentals
Strong and
defendable core
 business 
2
Global
presence and
capabilities
Key differentiators
that provide a platform
for growth
Cash
generative:
consistent growth
Focus on sales,
earnings and free
cash ﬂow growth
5
4
Deﬁned
growth strategy
Targeting known markets 
through organic and
 acquisitive growth
Experienced
management team
Leadership, people and
systems to deliver growth
For a more detailed breakdown of 
performance, see the Operating review 
from page 15 and the Financial review 
from page 24.
Strategic highlights
Acquisition of GSD
I am delighted to be able to report that, 
in a year of change and consolidation, 
we also achieved our first acquisition in 
over ten years. In May we acquired 100% 
of GSD Corporate Limited, a UK-based 
consultancy that supplies the garment 
industry with methods of analysis and 
productivity improvement solutions. GSD, 
which has customers in over 60 countries 
and a strong Asian presence, is now part 
of Coats Global Services. This acquisition 
is a strong fit with our existing business 
and an example of the type of M&A 
transaction which we see as delivering 
future growth for the business.
Crafts: Refocus
During the year we disposed of the 
non-UK part of EMEA Crafts to Aurelius, a 
German private equity firm. This followed 
a comprehensive review of the business 
and its strategic fit within Coats, and it is 
a decision that will better position Coats 
for future profitable growth. It will also 
enable management to focus its attention 
on our high-performing global Industrial 
and strong Americas and UK Crafts 
businesses where we have seen good 
margin improvement overall.
Five elements to our value
I believe that our success as a company 
is underpinned by five core elements. 
These work together to sustain and build 
Coats’ market leadership and to deliver 
cash generative, consistent growth. Each 
element is a strength in itself but, together, 
they combine to set us apart from our 
competitors, giving us a solid platform 
from which to innovate and grow. 
I would like to take this opportunity 
to talk about them in more detail and 
provide pertinent examples. 
Investment case
Five elements to our value
The five elements to our investment case work alongside our business model to sustain and build  
Coats’ market leadership and deliver cash generative, consistent growth to our shareholders.
For more go online www.coats.com/investors
Strategic report
11 Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 Group Chief Executive’s statement
continued
 2 1
Global market leader with robust 
fundamentals and capabilities
Our global footprint – some 50 manufacturing 
sites across the world and a sales presence in 
over 100 countries – means we maintain 
market positions that are several times larger 
than our competition. It also enables us to 
satisfy customer demand wherever it occurs 
globally and to pursue global growth 
in Speciality. This is a key differentiator and one 
that provides a sound basis for our growth.
In addition, we have our strong corporate 
brand reputation, which is based on a deep 
heritage stretching back over 200 years, 
and market leading brands that stand 
for excellence in the market place. These 
provide the basis for strong relationships 
with the widest range of brands and 
manufacturers in the world from which 
we constantly gather in depth market 
insight. This unique combination 
of relationships, resources and reach, 
when coupled with our agile global 
R&D network, provide us with an unrivalled 
leadership position in the market.
We maintain that position with a 
comprehensive range of products and 
services, sustained by a culture of continual 
product and service innovation. This enables 
us to lead the industry in anticipating 
and meeting the changing needs of our 
customers and consumers. Over the past 
five years we have launched over 200 new 
products. In 2015 these included:
• Signal thread Our new premium 
reflective thread which couples an 
extraordinarily high level of retro-
reflectance with good sewability 
(intended for mainly decorative use, 
though it also helps enhance visibility 
at night time and in difficult 
weather conditions);
• Secura thread A heat-activated fusible 
thread that we developed in response 
to feedback from our customers to 
help secure buttons and decorative 
applications such as sequins and beads;
• Conductive thread Developed by us 
for a major supplier to secure its wireless 
tracking tags to fabrics (the thread 
acts as an antenna, introducing the 
possibility of incorporating intelligence 
into sewing processes; thus opening 
up a whole range of new product 
markets);
• Opti LUX Trio zips These have been 
specifically created for high-end 
goods, with a longer, more complex 
manufacturing process, which results 
in features such as individually polished 
teeth, smooth slider running and a 
wide range of finishes.
We are also innovators in the field of digital, 
creating products to meet and pre-empt 
a diverse range of industry needs.
• eCommerce A real-time online system 
designed to make thread ordering as 
quick and easy as possible for customers, 
allowing them to check things such 
as thread orders, stock availability and 
payment status from a mobile device.
• Coats Colour Express A web-based 
application, using Coats Colour Capsure 
(our electronic shade card), backed up by 
Coats colour experts, which allows 
customers to accurately match, sample 
and order thread quickly and easily.
• Coats Match A highly portable and  
user-friendly colour-reading device that 
connects via Bluetooth to two mobile 
Apps, Coats Colour Select and Coats 
Colour Compare, allowing customers 
to share measured colour standards; 
set tolerances within which a colour is 
acceptable; and compare physical fabric 
with their chosen colour for accuracy. 
This reduces lead times and the high 
costs associated with traditional colour 
design and approval processes.
• Redheart.com A website for Red Heart 
customers worldwide, with an ordering 
system that allows users to shop for Red 
Heart products with a one-click function 
that gathers all the required supplies, 
and incorporating tutorial, blog and 
community sections.
 3
Defined growth strategy
Our defined growth strategy is well 
established and targets known markets 
through organic and acquisitive growth. 
We have Market Goals in place to guide 
us right through to 2018.
Apparel and Footwear (A&F) We aim 
to be the leading value added partner 
to the apparel, footwear and accessories 
industries and will achieve this with share 
gains garnered from innovation in products 
and services – for instance, anticipating 
trends in the increasing demand for A&F 
driven by a growing middle class in Asia 
Pacific. We will continue to make strategic 
choices in areas such as digital, innovation 
First metallized thread antenna
In 2015 we launched a metallized thread 
antenna specifically for use with a revolutionary 
radio frequency identification (RFID) tag for 
tracking applications in the industrial laundry, 
leather, textile and uniform sectors.
Coats Match digital colour reader
Coats Match is a highly portable, digital colour 
reading device that can significantly reduce 
time and costs for customers at design 
and approval stages.
Strategic report
12 Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 and partnership, utilising the excellence 
of our marketing, sales, enhanced products 
and transformative services. This, combined 
with the skills of our workforce; the agility 
and responsiveness of our systems; our 
operational excellence; and compliance, 
gives us the leading edge we need 
to compete as an industry leader.
Speciality To remain the leading global 
player in Speciality threads and yarns we 
must increase our global reach – accessing 
new geographies and end-markets and 
seizing appropriate merger and acquisition 
opportunities as they arise – while continuing 
to bring innovative products to market. 
This means a move away from our 
traditional segments into value added 
engineered yarns, which we are achieving 
through product innovation, performance 
materials and best in class service.
Crafts To be the leading global player in 
textile crafts means focusing on our strong 
and profitable Americas and UK businesses. 
There is much opportunity within the 
~$1.8 billion Americas textile crafting 
industry, and a smaller – but expanding 
– presence in Latin America. In North 
America our strategy is two pronged – 
firstly, deliver digital inspiration by 
establishing direct relationships with 
consumers, via our redheart.com and 
makeitcoats.com web sites; secondly, 
deliver best in class category management 
and customer service to major retailers 
such as Walmart.
4
Experienced management team 
and people
At Coats we are led by an experienced 
Board and management team who 
are supported by a highly motivated 
workforce. We have made great strides 
during 2015 to ensure that the composition 
of our Board of Directors possess the 
right breadth of geographic, industry and 
functional experience to ensure our success 
as a global manufacturing business. 
Alongside this we have continued to uphold 
and embed the values and behaviours that 
ensure we have an engaged workforce 
and a healthy working environment. 
Our commitment to both is reflected in 
us formally adopting these measures 
as non-financial key performance 
indicators for the Group. For more on this, 
see page 27.
Commitment to Health and Safety 
A safe and healthy working environment 
is our number one priority – and everyone 
has a part to play in contributing to 
our safety culture. 2015 was a year of 
continued improvement and significant 
highlights – for example, in Pakistan we 
achieved 4 million accident-free hours. 
There is, of course, always more work to 
be done and we are targeting a reduction 
from our already low base while at the 
same time extending our reporting 
to cover any commuting accidents our 
employees may experience getting 
to and from work.
Employee engagement In 2015, 98% 
of our employees took part in our employee 
engagement survey and we were pleased 
to see that our employee engagement 
score has risen by two percentage points 
to 83%, keeping us in the top 10% of 
all global surveyed companies.
People We currently have over 70 
nationalities among our employees, and 
more than 20 (out of ~100 people) in our 
global leadership team, and we recognise 
that we must retain the best talent from 
the widest possible pool to ensure the 
ongoing success and relevance of the 
business. In 2015, we launched a diversity 
and inclusion (D&I) programme, which will 
address the number of women in 
leadership positions, and our ongoing 
Management Capability Development 
Programme has now been completed 
by more than 400 people from over 
40 countries. For more details, go to 
the People section on page 20.
 5
Cash generative, consistent growth
The four elements outlined above allow us 
to generate improving financial returns and 
quality of earnings. A continued focus on 
sales and earnings growth and free cash 
flow generation gives us a strong base for 
the future, and we continue to focus on 
working capital management and capital 
discipline, with internal initiatives such as 
a recent review of all fixed costs, as well 
as our annual operational productivity and 
purchasing programmes (saving approx. 
$15 million per annum) and the 
implementation of new operational 
structures.
Operating responsibly
We pride ourselves on being a responsible 
company and recognise the increasing 
importance of compliance in all the markets 
in which we operate. Two elements that 
are essential for us as a Group maintaining 
our reputation within the industry are our 
approach to Corporate Responsibility 
(CR) and managing risk.
Corporate Responsibility Our CR 
programme is integrated with our business 
strategy and helps us build and maintain 
both our reputation and our relationships 
with key stakeholders. It is structured 
around our seven strategic themes which 
we review on a bi-annual basis to ensure 
they remain appropriate and relevant. 
This year we held workshops with over 
70 key suppliers in China to ensure that 
they are meeting the standards set out in 
our supplier code of practice, maintaining 
those high environmental and social 
standards that we demand from all our 
industry partners. For more detail see 
Corporate Responsibility on page 22.
Managing risk We take a robust approach 
to risk management, which underpins our 
operations and ensures that we have the 
necessary systems in place to identify risk 
appropriate for a global manufacturer. 
During the year we put in place a three-
level risk programme, and sought advice 
from global risk consultants on how best to 
protect ourselves as we conduct business in 
new and existing markets. We have 
continued to invest in facilities through our 
capex programme and also established 
a dedicated risk function at a Group level. 
For more detail see Principal risks and 
uncertainties on page 28.
Our outlook
We delivered a strong performance in 2015 
supported by market share gains, product 
innovation, lower input prices and 
productivity and procurement gains. These 
factors have put the business on a solid 
footing for the year ahead.
Additionally, we will realise incremental 
savings from our overhead reduction 
programme, which aims to reduce costs 
following the disposal of EMEA Crafts. 
However, as we continue to grow there is 
a need to reinvest into the business to 
support our growth ambitions. 
Furthermore, against a backdrop of mixed 
economic conditions with uncertainties 
on consumer demand in the US and 
Western Europe, demand from the oil 
and gas industry and the potential for 
the US Dollar to further strengthen, 
Group performance could be adversely 
impacted. On balance, we expect to 
deliver modest year-on-year growth in 
Group pre-exceptional operating profit with 
improvements to non-operating items 
further benefiting adjusted EPS.
Paul Forman
Group Chief Executive
10 March 2016
Strategic report
13 Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 Enhancing the essential products of life
Experts in 
developing better 
prod ucts a n d services
We constantly draw on our expertise to explore new ideas. 
This allows us to identify areas for growth and to create 
products and services that give us a competitive edge.
Coats eComm
A mobile real-time, online 
ordering service making 
thread ordering easier and 
faster than ever. Now live in 
25 markets, Coats eComm 
accounts for over 50% of 
total thread orders. 
Coats Secura
During the year we  
launched Coats Secura, 
a fusible polyester 
corespun thread, which 
helps to secure items 
such as buttons and 
decorative applications 
like sequins.
Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 14
