 The past year has been one of significant 
progress, even for a company with a 
heritage as long as ours.
Dear shareholder
The past year has been one of significant 
progress, even for a company with 
a heritage as long as ours.
In February 2015, we established 
Coats Group plc as a standalone, listed 
entity. All major investments apart from 
the Coats business have been sold, 
culminating in the Company changing 
name from Guinness Peat Group to Coats 
Group. We are now a UK-headquartered, 
global industrial manufacturing business 
with a new role and direction as a publicly 
traded company with FTSE 250 ambitions.
Board and governance
In March 2015, we established the Coats 
Group plc Board, with Directors chosen 
for their FTSE, geographic, industry and 
functional talents. David Gosnell and 
Alan Rosling both became Independent 
Non-Executive Directors – joining 
Mike Allen, Ruth Anderson and me – 
while Paul Forman, Group Chief Executive, 
Richard Howes, Chief Financial Officer, 
and Rajiv Sharma, Global CEO Industrial, 
became Executive Directors.
In April, Nicholas Bull was appointed 
as Senior Independent Director (SID). 
Nicholas – a chartered accountant with 
over 30 years of global banking experience 
– has also joined both our Audit and Risk, 
and Nomination Committees. Part of his 
role as SID is to act as a sounding board 
for me as the Chairman and to serve as 
an intermediary for the other stakeholders 
when necessary.
Drawing on the varied talents of our 
Non-Executive Directors is important 
to the success of the business and we 
will continue to monitor the Board’s 
composition, so that we maintain the 
best possible mix of skills and industry 
knowledge to support our strategy and 
ambitions. In line with best practice, 
Directors will stand for re-election on an 
annual basis. For more detail, see the 
corporate governance section of this report.
Delisting announcement
Our re-emergence as a UK-headquartered 
global industrial manufacturing business 
has resulted in a change in the regional 
diversity of our shareholder base. Over 70% 
of our shareholders are now UK-based 
(mainly institutional investors), with fewer 
than 12% in New Zealand and Australia. 
In light of this, in November we announced 
our intention to delist from the New 
Zealand and Australia stock exchanges.
We have no material operations or 
Executive Directors in New Zealand or 
Australia and, during the year, both Sir Ron 
Brierley and Blake Nixon ended their long 
associations with the company by stepping 
down from the Board. This delisting move 
– approved in principle by both the NZX 
and ASX authorities – will also eliminate 
the costs and complexities arising from 
a triple listing and share register structure.
A resolution will be put to shareholders 
for approval at the Annual General Meeting 
in May.
Performance in 2015
During the year we delivered a strong 
operating performance and improved 
quality of earnings. The core Apparel 
and Footwear business continued to 
gain market share and in Speciality we 
maintained growth through product 
innovation and geographic expansion, 
despite tough conditions in certain key 
markets.
In our Americas Crafts business we 
delivered an encouraging second half profit, 
while across the Group margins increased 
due to volume growth, lower input prices 
and procurement and productivity savings.
Overall these factors contributed to 
pre-exceptional operating profit increasing 
by 19% on a constant currency basis to 
$139 million. However, discontinued losses 
related to the sale of our loss-making 
EMEA Crafts business, negatively impacted 
reported earnings.
As a Group we enter 2016 on a solid 
footing with improving returns and quality 
of earnings and a stronger business 
portfolio. More details on performance 
during the year can be found in the Group 
Chief Executive’s statement on page 10 
and Operating review on page 15.
Pensions
Another matter of significance for the Group 
is pensions – namely the investigations by the 
UK Pensions Regulator (‘tPR’) that have been 
ongoing for the past two years.
We have recently initiated settlement 
discussions with all three sets of 
Trustees and have stated we would like to 
conclude the pension investigations with 
a solution that is in the interests of all 
parties. To that end we have committed 
not to return to shareholders any of the 
cash balance held by the parent group, 
currently $505 million (£342 million).
Whilst we are committed to finding a 
solution, it must be one that enables us 
to reward our investors with a dividend 
flow from our successful operational 
performance. If such a settlement cannot 
be reached in respect of all the schemes 
on this basis and the investigations proceed 
a hearing in front of the ‘Determinations 
Panel’ would be unlikely before the second 
half of 2016 at the earliest. For full detail of 
the pension schemes and tPR investigations 
see page 26.
Personal highlights of 2015
For me there were two particular 
aspects to our performance in the year 
that I would like to highlight. One is 
innovation – our approach to new 
product development – the other is 
the recognition of the quality of 
our people and products.
Mike Clasper
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
Strategic report
04 Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 Innovation During 2015 we launched 
more new products than ever, in part 
thanks to the agility of our Research 
and Development (R&D) model. This 
model’s foundations are our customer 
understanding and our manufacturing base 
and dedicated R&D managers who interact 
with our customer teams to look for 
innovation opportunities. They create 
teams from employees as and when 
needed – enabling us to use existing 
talent, machinery and operational 
time to test new ideas within the heart 
of the business – on the factory floor 
and with the customer. In 2015, this led 
to major breakthroughs such as Signal, 
our retro-reflective sewing and embroidery 
thread; and a new conductive thread 
developed for a major supplier to secure 
its wireless tracking tags to fabrics.
Recognition It was also another year 
in which both our people and products 
were publicly recognised. Our Red 
Heart brand was awarded the Women’s 
Choice Award in the United States; 
in Bangladesh, brand retailer Decathlon 
gave us a sustainable development 
award; our Footwear division received an 
adidas Quality award for Tier 2 suppliers; 
and, in Vietnam, our Managing Director 
Bill Watson received a Certificate of Merit 
from the office of the Prime Minister.
People
In a year of transition and change, our 
employees have remained committed 
and focused and I would like to thank 
them for their steadfast efforts as we 
settle into this new phase in our history.
Coats is proud of its strong global 
presence. We employ 19,000 people in 
over 60 countries worldwide and we 
recognise it is their talent and commitment 
that sets us apart as a business, ensuring 
that we remain leaders in our sector. We 
will therefore continue to focus on diversity 
and inclusion (cultural and gender) across 
the organisation to ensure that we make 
the most of that considerable talent.
One of the ways we benchmark 
our culture is through our employee 
engagement survey and, in 2015, our 
engagement score (which shows how 
proud people are to work at Coats and 
how willing they are to work toward 
achieving common goals) is up to 
83% (compared with 81% in 2014), 
strengthening our position in the top 
10% of companies globally.
Our Health and Safety figures also 
continued in the right direction. During 
2015, our recordable accident rate was 
0.29 work-related injuries and illnesses 
per 100 Full Time Employees – well below 
industry average figures reported by the 
US Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration.
Looking ahead
In the year ahead we will continue the 
process of ‘normalisation’ as a UK-listed, 
global manufacturing company, while 
increasing the pace of product and service 
development and acquisitions – exploring 
ways in which we can translate our successes 
into greater value for shareholders.
Mike Clasper
Chairman
10 March 2016
London Stock Exchange opening
To mark the 125th anniversary year of our 
initial listing, in June members of the Board 
and employees were invited to open the day’s 
trading on the Main Market of the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE).
Coats delisting from the New Zealand and Australia stock exchanges:  
Key dates
18 May 2016 Annual General Meeting – shareholder approval sought to delist 
from NZX
21 June 2016 Coats shares and CDIs to be suspended from trading on NZX and 
ASX respectively (at close of trading)
24 June 2016 Closing date of Share Sale Facility*
24 June 2016 Coats to be delisted from NZX and ASX
* (unless extended by notice released to the LSE)
See page 136 for Registrar contact details and information on delisting
Strategic report
05 Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 Satisfying  
global demand
Our unrivalled global footprint and longstanding 
local presence in places such as Bangladesh, China, 
India, Sri Lanka and Vietnam puts us right at the 
heart of the rapidly growing Asia Pacific region.
Enhancing the essential products of life
Global reach
Our global capability comes 
from years of working locally 
– all around the world. In 
Bangladesh and Vietnam we 
recently celebrated 25 years 
of successful partnership.
The world’s  
favourite thread
Coats Epic is the world’s 
leading premium sewing 
thread – popular with brands 
because of its high quality, 
wide product range and 
global availability.
Improving industry 
performance
In May we acquired GSD.  
As part of Coats Global 
Services, GSD offers solutions 
that analyse time, cost and 
production capability in the 
sewn products sector, to 
maximise productivity and costs. 
Coats Group plc Annual Report 2015 06
