 Strategic report
06
Collagen Solutions plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
  We are pleased to report 
that progress has been made 
in terms of creating long-term 
shareholder value.
 David Evans, Chairman
Summary
• The year has been one of considerable progress, 
culminating with the strategic acquisition of Southern 
Lights Biomaterials, based in New Zealand
• Successful technology transfer of the first product from 
San Jose to GMP contract manufacturing in Glasgow 
during the year
• We have set ourselves a target by 2020 to create 
a biomaterials business with a value of £100 million 
through a combination of organic growth and 
exploitation of licensed IP, as well as through 
appropriate acquisitions
 View our strategic report
 Page 15
I am pleased to present Collagen Solutions’ annual report 
and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015. 
The year under review has been one of considerable progress 
for the Group as a whole culminating in December with the 
strategic acquisition of Southern Lights Ventures 2002 Limited 
(Southern Lights Biomaterials or SLB).
This acquisition would not have been possible had we not been able to 
bed down the acquisitions of Collbio Limited and Collagen Solutions LLC 
into a cohesive operating unit. That progress gave us the confidence 
that the original strategic plan could be successfully executed.
Southern Lights Biomaterials, based in New Zealand, was established 
in 2003 and has achieved much of what we want to achieve on a 
grander scale: it has a strong customer base generating recurring 
revenues (in Asia and North America), it has a surety of supply of 
high grade collagen from negligible BSE risk sources, and it has IP 
and know-how from which strategic value can be created. Allied to 
that it has in Geoff Bennett experience and wisdom that has both 
complemented the existing Collagen team and strengthened our 
Board overall.
Our objective remains the same: to build a significant global 
biomaterials business by assisting customers in expediting the 
transition of their products from development through to manufacture 
by the provision of cost-effective, functional collagen materials and 
devices, across a range of clinical indications, for the ultimate benefit 
of providing effective and affordable treatment to patients.
Overview
The enlarged Group is still in its early stages of development; 
however, we are pleased to report that progress has been made 
in terms of creating long-term shareholder value.
In particular I would draw your attention to the following:
• Customer announcements of biomaterials supplied to 
Globus Medical Inc., Desu Medical, Kyeron Medical Innovations 
and Novabone Products LLC.
• The management teams in Glasgow, San Jose and New Zealand 
have been integrated and are working effectively as a cohesive unit. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
07
Collagen Solutions plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
• The appointment of Geoff Bennett as Chief Business Officer 
to the Board.
• The successful technology transfer of the first product from San Jose 
to GMP contract manufacturing in Glasgow during the year.
• We have made further advances in our work with one of our partners, 
Jellagen, on the processing of jellyfish into vector-free collagen.
We have set ourselves a target by 2020 to create a biomaterials 
business with a value of £100 million through a combination of 
organic growth and exploitation of licensed IP, as well as through 
appropriate acquisitions, and we look forward to continuing that 
journey, having already made some significant progress.
Results
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out 
in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Revenue 
and other income for the year was £1,035,500 (2014: £24,023). 
Administrative expenses (before separately identifiable items) were 
£1,265,918 (2014: £303,647), which includes the costs of operating 
a public company and the related regulatory costs. Selling and 
marketing costs were £218,732 (2014: £71,914). Losses before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (LBITDA) (before 
separately identifiable costs) were £689,816 (2014: £388,269) 
and the loss per share was 1.17p (2014: 1.10p). Revenue of £562,624 
and profit after tax of £123,571 is attributable to Southern Lights 
Biomaterials since 10 December 2014, the acquisition date.
Net cash used in operations during the year was £1,070,812 
(2014: £524,839), net cash used in investing activities was £2,404,496 
(2014: £1,357,278) and net cash inflow from financing activities 
was £5,363,304 (2014: £3,373,777). The Group’s cash balances 
at 31 March 2015 were £3,391,356 (2014: £1,491,660).
Board and management
On the acquisition of Southern Lights Biomaterials, one of its 
co-founders, Geoff Bennett, was appointed to the Board. John Higgins, 
Chief Scientist, also became a key member of the management team. 
Both have extensive knowledge and contacts within the industry 
and are also significant shareholders in the Company.
We have recently added the considerable experience of Tom Hyland 
to the management team, who joined the Company as Chief Operating 
Officer in April 2015. Tom has over 20 years’ collagen chemistry 
knowledge having worked in senior roles in various global medical 
device and life science organisations.
I am very pleased to see the enlarged team gel and work together 
as a cohesive global unit under Stewart’s leadership. 
Outlook 
The year 2015/16 will see a continued investment in people and 
facilities in our three locations as we continue to expand our sales 
pipeline. We are looking to develop strong collaborative partnerships 
with key players in the regenerative medicine space, and to develop 
our product offering whilst we continue to transfer technologies from 
our core R&D facility in San Jose to our manufacturing unit in Glasgow, 
leading to the expansion of the Glasgow site. We also continue to expand 
our capacity and capabilities at our manufacturing facility in New Zealand.
We are recognised within the industry for the quality of the materials 
that we produce, and our ability to do that within a GMP environment. 
That gives me confidence in our long-term revenue generation, as 
those revenues are effectively embedded into our customers’ products. 
What is more difficult to judge is the exact timing of such revenues 
as our customers take their products through to launch and beyond. 
The setting and management of expectations remains a key risk 
in the public equity markets, where too great a store is placed on 
a single data point without reference to the underlying fundamentals.
We have yet to reach a critical mass of manufactured products and 
we see this beginning to happen in the coming year, whilst as 
always remaining opportunistic to value-adding opportunities 
that will shorten this timescale.
We are looking to continue to leverage opportunities to develop and 
exploit IP, and I will update you later on in the year as we formalise 
such arrangements. It is anticipated that this investment will come 
from our existing resources.
Your Group remains one of the most innovative and exciting that I 
have ever been involved in and I see the ability to secure significant 
value accretion in a relatively low-risk manner by adopting a portfolio 
approach with regard to development for our customers and ensuring 
our revenues are secured long term by taking that from R&D 
through to manufacturing.
Thank you for your support.
David Evans
Non-executive Chairman
10 July 2015
The acquisition of Southern Lights Biomaterials 
in December 2014 is a complementary, logical 
and strategic extension which further de-risks 
the Company’s business model.
Benefits include:
• established global customer base and pipeline;
• secure raw material from BSE free New Zealand;
• IP relating to collagen and pericardium materials; and
• management experienced in Asian markets.
Acquisition of Southern Lights Biomaterials
Southern Lights Facility
