 5 4
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
Following the 2014 acquisition of Aeroflex for 
some US$1.5bn, our focus has been on integrating 
the former Aeroflex businesses, streamlining 
and simplifying the portfolio, and continuing to 
embed a continuous improvement culture in the 
business. These actions, together with our focus 
on technology and customers, position the Group 
to deliver growth and generate cash. 
This year, we have seen signs of stabilisation and, 
in some regions, improvement in our defence 
and security markets, which have been through 
a periodic downcycle. The new bipartisan budget 
agreement in the US covering 2016 and 2017, which 
includes an increase to the investment accounts, has 
underpinned this, even though there is a continuing 
time lag between budgetary approval and outlays, 
or the spending of the budget. Elsewhere, there is 
evidence of modest increases in some European 
defence/security budgets, with growth continuing 
in Asia-Pacific and in Middle East markets. 
However, we have encountered unexpected 
headwinds in some of our commercial markets 
primarily as a result of slowing growth in Asia-Pacific 
and the impact of the reduction in the price of oil 
and gas. The Board believes that the fundamental, 
long term macro growth drivers in these markets, 
for which our technology is well positioned, 
remain unchanged.
It is these unexpected headwinds which have 
held back Group revenue growth during the year, 
with Cobham posting a slight organic revenue 
decline overall. Further, the headwinds have masked 
the solid progress that we have made to improve the 
business. This has included our increased investment 
to grow our pipeline of new and improved products 
and services. In addition, there has been very good 
progress on our major aerial refuelling development 
programmes. Although challenges remain as we 
move through the critical flight test phase on the 
US KC-46 tanker programme during 2016, we have 
made progress including the first successful transfer 
of fuel to a US Navy aircraft in early February 2016. 
Our progress here is, in part, testament to the 
ongoing commitment to increasing critical skills 
and capabilities in the business and to embedding 
a continuous improvement culture. This targets 
enhancements to our engineering skills as well 
as ongoing improvements to key operational and 
customer delivery metrics including on time delivery, 
quality and also supplier performance, which are 
all critical to the ongoing health of the business.
We are extremely encouraged by the excellent 
progress made in integrating the former Aeroflex 
businesses into the Group. Integration is now 
expected to be complete by the end of 2017 with 
costs and benefits in line with original expectations. 
In addition, we have streamlined and simplified 
the Group’s portfolio by exiting certain markets 
and technologies, allowing us to focus on our 
core capabilities. This has reduced complexity and 
enables us to concentrate our investment in markets 
with the most attractive long term potential. 
COBHAM IS NOW MUCH 
MORE COHESIVE WITH 
STRONGER POSITIONS 
FROM WHICH TO GROW
Growth in full  
year dividend
5%
(2014: 10%)
Full year dividend
11. 18p
(2014: 10.65p)
“ Our focus in 201 5 has 
been on integrating 
Aeroflex, streamlining 
the portfolio, embedding 
continuous improvement 
and positioning the 
Group to generate 
growth and cash.” 5 4
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
These divestments have contributed to Cobham’s 
cash generation in the year and we ended the 
year with lower net debt, despite unhelpful year 
end translation rates, as the Group’s debt is primarily 
denominated in foreign currencies. Operating cash 
generation and free cash flow remain areas of 
increased focus for the Group in 2016.
When I look back at the considerable progress 
made over the past few years, Cobham is now 
a much more cohesive entity with stronger and 
more focused positions from which to grow in 
its markets. It has strengthened its leading market 
positions through selected acquisitions and judicious 
technology investments and it has exited weaker 
market positions by divesting some of its more 
peripheral activities. It has a greater balance in 
revenue from its main markets with more scale in 
attractive commercial segments. It has a redesigned 
organisation and management structure which has 
closely aligned management and reporting lines with 
the drive to deliver revenue growth. It has reduced 
its fixed cost base, with some of the efficiencies 
generated being used to increase investment in the 
business. It continues to transform its operational 
performance and customer delivery, to enable it to 
meet and exceed customer expectations and grow 
market share over time. 
In addition, there has been an increase in our focus 
on risk management processes, on ethics and on 
employee satisfaction, with Cobham’s ongoing 
Group-wide employee engagement and initiative 
feedback programme expected to include former 
Aeroflex employees for the first time during 2016.
The Board
We announced in January 2016 that Simon Nicholls, 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO), will be leaving Cobham 
to become CFO at Wolseley plc. The search to 
replace him is underway and, to ensure a smooth 
transition, Simon will remain in place until his 
successor has been identified.
We have also welcomed Alan Semple to the Board 
as a Non-executive Director in February 2015. 
Alan was previously CFO at John Wood Group plc. 
He subsequently became Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in April 2015, replacing Mike Wareing, 
who remains a member of the Committee.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 
2015 of 8.13p (2014: 7.746p). This, together with 
the interim dividend of 3.05p (2014: 2.904p), will 
result in a total dividend per share for 2015 of 
11.18p (2014: 10.65p), an increase of 5%.
This increase is consistent with the Group’s policy, 
which I first set out in the 2014 Annual Report 
and Accounts, of growing the dividend so that it 
is broadly aligned with underlying earnings growth, 
while rebuilding dividend cover over time. The Board 
continues to consider that this approach will give 
the Group the flexibility to invest to drive growth 
and maximise shareholder returns.
The Board is mindful that Cobham has a long 
track record of dividend growth, this being the 
45
th
 consecutive year in which the full year dividend 
has been increased, and it remains committed to 
a progressive dividend policy. 
Conclusion
We have continued to make excellent progress 
on the delivery of our strategic objectives during the 
year, including excellent progress with the integration 
of the Aeroflex business. In addition, we have exited 
certain markets and technologies, allowing us to 
focus on our core capabilities, and in so doing we 
have reduced our risk profile.
The Board remains confident that the continued 
investment in technology and know-how will enable 
us to maintain our leading positions in markets with 
good prospects, leaving Cobham well placed to 
deliver growth over the medium term.
John Devaney
Chairman
2 March 2016
 
 See page 28 for more information.
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
13% CAGR over ten years in dividend (pence)
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
3.75
4.50
4.96
5.45
6.00
8.00
8.80
9.68
10.65
11.18
