 Strategic report
08
Collagen Solutions plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement
  With the acquisition of SLB, 
the Group has a biomaterials 
development team which 
is truly world class.
 Dr Stewart White, Chief Executive Officer
Collagen Solutions partners with its customers to expedite their 
products to the market. Through these customers, the Group 
provides products and services in a diverse range of life science 
markets and territories. The Group has facilities in the UK, the 
USA and now also New Zealand, as a result of the acquisition 
of Southern Lights Biomaterials in December 2014. The Group 
remains focused on delivering products of the highest quality 
to our valued, and now expanded, customer base.
Operational trading
Revenue comprises direct sales of existing collagen products, 
development activities and, as a result of the SLB acquisition, 
tissue supply. The Group has won business from US-based 
customers Globus Medical and Novabone, both of which utilise 
Collagen Solutions’ materials in FDA-approved products. This 
model of embedded materials in approved products, and therefore 
embedded long-term revenues, is a theme which is reflected across 
the Group. Last year it was our stated intent to continue to establish 
and increase these long-term relationships. I believe we have 
demonstrated this in the various new customer announcements.
In order to provide our functional materials, the Group must 
continually invest in its manufacturing and quality systems to ensure 
compliance with ever increasing requirements from regulatory bodies. 
As a result of the SLB acquisition, the Group now has two facilities 
which hold ISO 13485 and 22442 certifications. This provides the 
Group with added mitigation around business continuity. We now 
have another accredited standalone facility with experienced staff 
Summary
• Collagen Solutions plc’s acquisition of Southern 
Lights Biomaterials has been a transformational event 
for the Group
• The Group’s gross profit margin of 78% reflects 
the value our customers place on our products, 
services and support
• Our location in New Zealand and our established 
business activities mean that the Group now has 
a wholly additive reach into the Asian market
• Collagen Solutions is now recognised as 
a significant global player in the biomaterials field
 View our financial review
 Page 18 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
09
Collagen Solutions plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
who understand the requirements of manufacturing and quality 
management systems in order to successfully operate in the 
medical device industry. 
Research and development activities within the Group continue 
to be core to our ability to innovate and expedite solutions for our 
customers and have benefited from ongoing investment in the 
current year. To assist our R&D team, I am pleased to report that 
Professor Robert Brown of University College London was appointed 
to the Group as Scientific Adviser, joining our Scientific Advisory 
Board. Similarly, we have been fortunate that Tom Hyland, our new 
Chief Operating Officer, has also joined the Scientific Advisory 
Board. Robert and Tom come with a vast amount of experience 
in collagen-based tissue regeneration, collagen chemistry 
and GMP manufacturing. 
With the acquisition of SLB, the Group has a biomaterials 
development team which is truly world class and positions us very 
well to compete in a global industry where customers have diverse 
clinical application requirements across a wide range of life science 
markets and territories. Our product range continues to expand 
to serve these markets. The Group’s gross profit margin of 78% 
reflects the value our customers place on our products, services 
and support.
During the current year the Group has continued to refine its IP 
strategy. The Group has licensed technology from University 
College London which it believes will be novel in the provision of 
added value polymeric collagen formulations in the regenerative 
medicine space.
Collagen Solutions’ willingness to collaborate on exciting development 
projects continued in the period with its participation in the SMART 
funding obtained by its strategic partner Jellagen, of which the 
Group holds 10.5% interest. 
Acquisition of Southern Lights Biomaterials
On 10 December 2014 Collagen Solutions plc acquired the 
New Zealand-based Southern Lights Biomaterials by issuing equity 
worth £1.95 million and cash of £2.46 million and providing contingent 
consideration of NZ$4 million relating to performance conditions. 
This acquisition is a transformational event for the Group and has 
proven to be wholly complementary and additive to the existing 
capabilities within the Group. There are many reasons why 
the SLB acquisition was attractive to the Board:
• biomaterials company with an established reputation;
• established customer base, with a significant proportion in Asia; 
• safe and established supply chain from BSE free New Zealand;
• capacity and capability around tissue supply;
• experienced management: Geoff Bennett joined the Group 
Board as Chief Business Officer (CBO); and
• complementary product range now including tendon as well 
as existing hide-sourced materials.
This acquisition has built revenue and offers the Group the ability 
to implement its previously stated strategic aim to combine and 
expand both development and manufacturing capabilities to 
ensure the Group becomes a globally recognised company in 
the chemistry, supply, development and manufacture of medical 
grade collagen biomaterials. 
Markets served
The acquisition of SLB into the newly expanded Group means that 
there are significant benefits already being realised through simple 
activities of upselling a wider product range to a much expanded 
customer base. Our location in New Zealand and established 
business activities mean that the Group now has reach into the 
Asian market. In addition the added manufacturing capacity allows 
the business to compete on a volume basis and still retain its 
operating margins.
We have medical grade products which can be utilised 
in the markets for: 
• medical devices – our core business;
• in-vitro reagents/diagnostics – where collagen is used as a 
reagent there is less regulatory approval required compared 
with medical devices. We expect discussions held in the period 
to provide access to this market; and
• regenerative medicine products – we believe we can add value to 
existing therapeutic agents by combining with a biomaterial solution 
which can add efficacy, viability and other benefits of applications, 
such as ease of use for healthcare professionals. Although at an 
early stage, the Board is excited by the prospects for the Group 
to add value to such disruptive treatments. 
By serving a range of market territories and customers with clinical 
indications, the diverse, de-risked nature of our business model 
is clear. 
Global business development
The Group now has three main locations addressing customer 
needs around the world:
• North America – San Jose, USA.
• Europe – Glasgow, UK.
• Asia – Marton, New Zealand. Strategic report
10
Collagen Solutions plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Global business development continued
These local capabilities and reach are important, providing 
convenience and surety to customers. Within the current period 
the business development team has integrated well in order to serve 
our global market and has been actively cross-selling the Group’s 
products in their respective regions and market sectors. I am pleased 
to say that Geoff Bennett, our Chief Business Officer, is now part of 
this team. Geoff’s previous experience as a Chartered Accountant, 
public company CFO and more recently serial entrepreneur and MD 
of SLB will ensure our business processes are capable of meeting 
this global demand. 
Strategic risks and mitigation 
The Group’s main activity relies on established relationships with 
a variety of leading suppliers of raw biomaterials. It is possible that 
some issues may arise, such as a disease outbreak, which could 
damage our supply chain.
Similarly, many of our customers have products on the market, 
whilst others require ongoing development support, regulatory 
approval or further investment to reach commercial volumes. It is 
possible that some customers’ products may not reach the market 
for reasons unrelated to Collagen Solutions’ activities.
It is our view that such risks have been mitigated as much as is 
possible by building on our robust strategy of maintaining a diverse 
and de-risked business model. That is, the Group can provide even 
greater level of surety around its supply chain, with control of source 
material from New Zealand. Coupled with its existing supply chain, 
the Group is in an extremely competitive position which we believe 
has no peer comparison.
Post-balance sheet events
• Retained ISO 13485/ISO 22442 certifications for our manufacturing 
facility in Glasgow following external audit during June 2015.
• Innovate UK Grant Award with the Electrospinning Company Limited 
to develop novel biosynthetic substance for internal wound healing.
• Tom Hyland joined as Chief Operating Officer for the Group 
(non-Board). Tom brings world class expertise in collagen chemistry, 
medical device manufacture and significant general management 
experience from a range of large life science companies.
• The Group’s subsidiary Southern Lights Biomaterials received 
approval from the US patent office on its novel process involving 
pericardium for usage in the heart valve replacement market. 
• Expansion into an additional 3,250 sq ft space at our 
Glasgow facility.
Outlook/current trading
The coming period will see the focus of the management team 
towards converting the cross-selling opportunities which have 
already been identified as a result of the acquisition of SLB. The 
Group will continue to actively sell its global manufacturing capacity, 
which now includes significant volume potential in our New Zealand 
facility. It is our aim that a greater amount of products will be used 
in the reagent and diagnostics space in addition to the fascinating 
advances we are observing in our activities with regenerative 
medicine companies.
With a strong internal IP base the Group will also advance 
discussions with suitable strategic partners in order to realise 
the maximum value for its IP and, therefore, shareholder return.
I share the Board’s view that the opportunities for the Group 
are significant and that Collagen Solutions is now recognised 
as a significant global player in the biomaterials field.
Dr Stewart White
Chief Executive Officer
10 July 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
11
Collagen Solutions plc
Annual report and accounts 2015
Customers, products, territories
Customer
(not disclosed)
Brain stent
Bone graft
Wound care
Dental
Turkey
USA
Netherlands
South Korea
Collagen Solutions has licensed breakthrough technology 
from Professor Brown’s laboratories that produces 
stronger living collagen-based tissues. He commented: 
“Collagen materials have a pivotal role in regenerative 
medicine – the Company is well positioned to participate 
in this area, by developing and enhancing such therapies.”
Find out more online: 
www.ucl.ac.uk/cmr/staffprofiles/RABRO31
Professor Robert Brown, 
a member of Collagen Solutions’ 
Scientific Advisory Board
Our facilities and equipment
