 13 12
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Strategy and progress overview
We have continued to progress our strategy of 
creating value for our shareholders by building 
and maintaining leading positions in our chosen 
markets through leveraging our innovative 
technology and know-how with a deep insight 
into our customers’ needs. 
We now have more balance in the portfolio 
between our defence/security revenue, with the 
portfolio focused in areas of customer priority in our 
chosen segments, and commercial revenue, where 
we are focused on markets that are underpinned by 
favourable, long term macroeconomic trends. This 
includes an ever increasing demand for enhanced 
communication, which is a positive market trend 
over the long term. We favour businesses with an 
ability to leverage differentiated technology into 
commercial and defence/security markets and all 
our Sectors now have a presence in both of these 
broad markets. We have five strategic actions and are 
measuring progress against them, as set out below.
1. Understanding customer needs and 
developing customer relationships
We continue to focus on opportunities to improve 
customer satisfaction and to anticipate future 
requirements. We have undertaken a comprehensive 
survey of our largest customers, which identified 
opportunities to deepen key relationships and to 
underpin our position as a preferred supplier of high 
quality products and services. Increasing emphasis 
on customer engagement has led to regular contact 
with key customers on market developments, 
new business opportunities and ideas for next 
generation products and technologies. As a result, 
we are identifying targeted PV investment to further 
grow our market share. 
2. Improving operational performance
We have continued to make good progress 
with our continuous improvement activities. 
This progress is reflected in improvements over 
the past five years to key operational metrics such 
as on time delivery, supplier defective parts per 
million and supplier on time delivery. The positive 
trend has continued during the year, culminating 
in operational performance levels not previously 
achieved by the Group. These continuous 
improvement activities are also vital to delivering 
lower inventory and working capital levels in the 
future and, despite the increase in 2015, we are 
seeing encouraging progress in a number of areas.
We have successfully completed the initial 
implementation of our new Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP) IT system at the pilot manufacturing 
location, with the system fully operational at the 
site. The ERP system will be progressively rolled out 
across our other operating locations over the next 
three years.
THERE IS NOW MORE BALANCE
IN THE PORTFOLIO AND WE 
ARE FOCUSED ON MARKETS 
WHICH ARE UNDERPINNED 
BY F A VOURABLE LONG 
TERM TRENDS
“ We have continued to 
invest in the business; in 
particular in technology, 
skills and capabilities, and 
in our infrastructure.”
Aeroflex efficiencies 
achieved
US$37 m
(2014: US$5m)
PV investment
8.2%
(2014: 6.7%) 13 12
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
3. Investing in and applying discriminating 
technology
We have continued to invest in technology to drive 
growth. Company funded PV investment increased 
significantly to £138m (2014: £97m), primarily 
reflecting the full year impact of Aeroflex. This 
investment represents some 8.2% (2014: 6.7%) of 
revenue. We have continued to align this spending 
with developing differentiated products and services 
in growing markets, including for avionics, SA TCOM, 
wireless and microelectronics applications. 
Specific examples of our technology investments 
in 2015 include:
 − Cobham SATCOM achieved the first voice 
call over Inmarsat’s SwiftBroadband aviation 
communication service using its new 
AVIATOR 200S compact unit. This unit is the 
first of several solutions that will be available 
to airlines in anticipation of the new generation 
SwiftBroadband Safety service in 2016;
 − Cobham Wireless launched a new TeraVM 
cyber security threat analysis solution that 
assesses infrastructure defences by replicating 
real-life incidents, including denial of service 
and database related injection attacks; 
 − Initial orders were received for the Mission 
Systems Sector’s new lightweight polymer 
lined, high pressure gas storage vessels. This 
technology, developed utilising experience 
gained in military and space applications, is 
being targeted at commercial industrial markets, 
including compressed natural gas vehicles. It 
offers customers superior fuel preservation 
and improved safety;
 − The Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector 
continues to align its investments to US  
defence/security priorities specifically in 
radio frequency technology differentiation. 
Additionally, it continues to invest in  
high-reliability electronics for commercial 
space, medical and industrial applications.
In addition to company funded PV, customer 
funded research and development (R&D) was 
£120m (2014: £101m), primarily relating to aerial 
refuelling development programmes. We have 
continued to make encouraging progress, with the 
Airbus A400M entering low rate initial production 
at the end of the year. Also, the KC-46 entered 
its flight test phase at the end of the third quarter 
2015, with free air stability testing and receiver 
contact trials undertaken. This was followed by the 
successful transfer of fuel to a US Navy F/A-18 in 
February 2016. It is expected that the rate of R&D 
investment in these programmes will moderate in 
2016, as we move from development into low rate 
initial production.
4. Allocating capital to be aligned with 
growing markets
Following on from our September 2014 Aeroflex 
acquisition, we have made excellent progress 
integrating this business, achieving some £25m 
(US$37m) of year-on-year efficiencies in 2015. 
The efficiencies have been achieved through a 
combination of site integration activity, reduced 
Aeroflex head office costs, and direct and indirect 
supply chain benefits for the combined Group. 
Business restructuring costs incurred in the year, 
primarily relating to the Aeroflex integration, were £67m.
We anticipate that this progress will continue, 
resulting in the Aeroflex integration programme 
being complete by the end of 2017, with the 
total costs and benefits in line with our original 
expectations. Our expected completion of the 
integration programme ahead of schedule will 
be a major achievement. 
As set out on page 8 in more detail, Cobham is 
focused around four main areas of capability 
which comprise connectivity, pneumatics and 
actuation, aerial refuelling systems, and military and 
commercial specialist outsourced aviation services. 
During the year we have exited certain markets and 
technologies, enabling us to further focus on these 
core capabilities. These divestments comprise:
 − Weinschel and Inmet in June 2015, for US$80m;
 − The Group’s composites businesses in November 
2015, for US$200m;
 − Metelics in December 2015, for US$38m.
In January 2016 we also divested the Surveillance 
business for US$10m. 
Although resulting in earnings dilution, these 
divestments have reduced portfolio complexity, 
helping us to concentrate our investment in markets 
with the most attractive long term potential. 
5. Enhancing the skills and capabilities 
of employees
We have increased our focus on key functional 
capabilities in the year, following the completion of 
the previously reported organisation design project. 
This includes continued activity to enhance our 
project and programme management capabilities, 
which will help ensure that our investments are being 
made effectively and efficiently. There has been a 
rigorous approach to assessing the competencies 
of individuals, complemented by a comprehensive 
training and development programme, which 
has led to a significant increase in the number 
of professional qualifications being achieved. 
This approach is now being extended to all other 
critical functions including engineering, operations 
and supply chain, finance, compliance, contracts, 
and human resources.
Conclusion
This has been another year of significant progress 
against the delivery of our strategic objectives. 
The excellent progress with the integration of the 
former Aeroflex business is a key highlight and we 
have continued to invest in our technology, our 
capabilities, our businesses and our infrastructure 
to underpin the drive for growth. 
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2016
Strategic overview
1. Focus on customers 
2. Improve operational performance
3. Invest in technology
4. Allocate capital for growth
5. Enhance skills and capabilities
 
See pages 16 to 17 for more information.
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
37
34
42
36
US defence/security
2013
2014
2012
2015
End markets (% of revenue)
31
35
39
38
Commercial
2012
2013
2014
2015
27
28
27
26
Non-US defence/security
2012
2013
2014
2015
2011
25
2011
48
2011
27
