 A LONG- TERM VIEW
Computacenter has delivered a further year of 
progress in 2015, increasing its adjusted
 
diluted 
earnings per share
1
 by 21.1 per cent to 53.4 pence. This 
level of performance has been achieved despite an 
increased level of in-year strategic investment by the 
Group to maintain and grow its competitive advantage, 
substantial currency headwinds due to the strength of 
the Pound Sterling against the Euro, and challenging 
wider economic conditions. 
As a public company listed on the main market of the London Stock 
Exchange, we strive at all times to deliver value for our stakeholders 
across a range of time-horizons. However, as a Senior Management 
team, we continue to consider the long term in all aspects of our 
decision-making and, as part of this approach, spend significant 
time reviewing the progress made by the business, both financially 
and otherwise, over a rolling three-year period. 
 
We have been pleased by the financial progress made by the Group 
over the past three years. Since the end of 2012, our adjusted profit 
before tax
1
 and adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 have increased 
by 5 per cent and 1 1 per cent respectively on an annually compounded 
basis. The Group’s ability to generate cash remains consistently 
strong. This, together with the disposal of RDC, has allowed us to 
return approximately £171 million to shareholders in the last three 
years, in addition to our standard dividend of £70.9 million declared 
in respect of that period. The financial performance has been 
particularly pleasing when one considers the increased investment 
made through the P&L in the Group’s Services capability, in order 
to provide a foundation for continued organic growth and a more 
sustainable business.
It has also been three years since the Board undertook a 
comprehensive review of the Group’s strategy, and as is set out 
on page 21, consistent progress has been made against its revised 
strategic objectives. In keeping with our approach of building for the 
long term, we will increase investment further in 2016, focusing on the 
development of our Next Generation Service Desk (NGSD) capability, 
and our Mobility, Cloud and Security offerings. We will also increase 
the level of our investment in our internal systems to improve the 
productivity of our Services resource, in particular through the use of 
Field Force technology. As we continue to deliver and further refine our 
strategy, the Group will look for ways in which it can grow its Services 
business, whilst balancing this with the importance of maintaining 
capital discipline and balance sheet efficiency.
 
In 2012, Computacenter took the decision to implement its Group-wide 
operating model, and this process has been completed across all of its 
main operating subsidiaries. In both Germany and France, the use of 
industrialised best-practice processes, together with the involvement 
of Group Management, has also played a role in the improving in-
country financial performance in 2015. The implementation of the 
model has been about an aspiration to raise the Group’s standards 
and quality of service, and I have been particularly pleased with the 
progress made in this area.
04
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Computacenter is well-placed for another year of progress in 2016.  
We will continue to invest appropriately in our systems, technology, 
people and processes to support the long-term prospects of the 
Group. These prospects are enhanced by the talent and dedication of 
people right across Computacenter, which I have witnessed at close 
proximity over a long period of time.
 
I would like to take the opportunity to thank our shareholders, who 
continue to provide us with consistent support and valuable feedback. 
I hope to see you at our Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016. 
Mike Norris
Chief Executive Officer
1 1 March 2016
As a Senior Management team, we 
continue to consider the long term in all 
aspects of our decision-making and, as 
part of this approach, spend significant 
time reviewing the progress made by the 
business, both financially and otherwise, 
over a rolling three-year period.
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
05
