 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Chairman’s 
Letter
Consort Medical has 
delivered another 
year of continued and 
consistent organic 
growth in the Bespak 
business, whilst 
expanding its future 
growth opportunities 
from both its 
development portfolio 
and its innovation 
pipeline.
Dr Peter Fellner
Consort Medical has delivered another  
year of continued and consistent organic 
growth in the Bespak business, whilst 
expanding its future growth opportunities 
from both its development portfolio and its 
innovation pipeline. In addition, the Group 
successfully completed the acquisition of 
Aesica Holdco Limited, providing significant 
additional strategic opportunities for the 
Group going forwards.
Trading
1
The Group’s revenue for the year was 
£184.8m, with EBIT of £25.1m. Bespak 
revenue grew by 5.8% to £105.8m (FY2014: 
£100.0m) with good operating leverage, as 
EBIT grew by 11.3% to £20.9m (FY2014: 
£18.8m). Aesica was part of the Group 
from mid-November, and their performance 
met our expectations from the time of the 
acquisition, with revenue of £79.0m and EBIT 
of £4.2m. Overall EPS for the period was 
47.8p (FY2014: 42.3p
2
).
EBITDA for the combined businesses, before 
special items, increased by £8.8m (36.0%) 
to £33.2m (FY2014: £24.4m). With ongoing 
major investment programmes to support 
our organic growth in Bespak, capital 
expenditure increased to £16.9m (FY2014: 
£16.3m), with £3.7m spent in Aesica. 
The Group balance sheet closed with net 
debt of £99.2m (FY2014: net cash £25.8m), 
and has significant cash resources available 
to comfortably satisfy its future growth and 
capital commitments. 
Acquisition of Aesica
When we redefined our strategy in 2008, 
we identified the opportunity to be realised 
in diversifying our business both horizontally 
to harness more of the value chain, and 
vertically into other dosage forms. Since then 
we have delivered that organically, and also 
inorganically, initially with the acquisition of 
The Medical House Limited to access auto-
injector technology. The acquisition of Aesica 
takes that strategy further forward, in a major 
step which harnesses more of the value 
chain, and adds oral dosage forms.
In recent years we have added commercial 
drug handling to Bespak’s service 
competencies. The acquisition of Aesica 
enables the Group to widen this competence 
further, by enabling combined formulation, 
device development and manufacturing, thus 
expanding our offering to pharma customers. 
This has the potential to accelerate their 
product development cycles and also to 
streamline their supply chains.
The integration programme for Aesica has 
been completed, and a number of value 
generating programmes have been initiated 
to realise the combined opportunities.
Development and Innovation 
We saw a number of important milestones 
in our product development pipeline during 
the year. Voke
®
 (DEV200, our innovative non-
electronic nicotine delivery device) received 
marketing authorisation from the Medicines 
and Healthcare Products Regulatory 
Authority (MHRA), and British American 
Tobacco have announced their expectation 
of launch later in 2015. 
We added three new development contracts 
to the pipeline during the year: two were 
for injectables, as we further strengthen our 
growing position in this sector, and another 
significant opportunity for an oral form of our 
integrated dose counter (IDC). 
We generated significant further progress 
and potential opportunities with our Syrina 
and Lila platforms, and unveiled a further 
Vapoursoft
®
 powered innovation in our 
Lapas
®
 bolus injector. These and other 
innovations have catalysed the further 
expansion of our Innovation centre, and 
we are delighted to have opened their new 
premises earlier this year in Cambridge.
Aesica has successfully implemented new 
process innovations, with the completed 
development of a semi-continuous 
formulation processing capability, and 
brought on stream the new high capacity 
plant at our Queenborough facility.
 
1
 Financial performance metrics relate to continuing operations unless stated otherwise.
2
 FY2014 earnings per share is adjusted for the impact of the rights issue completed in November 2014.
Consort Medical plc  
Annual Report & Accounts  
for the year ended 30 April 2015
2 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Board Changes
During the year we made two new 
appointments to the Consort Medical Board: 
Andrew Hosty and Charlotta Ginman.
Andrew joins the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. Andrew is Chief 
Operating Officer at Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc, an appointment he has held 
since February 2013. Andrew is also a 
Non-executive Director of British Ceramic 
Research Limited. Andrew brings significant 
operations management experience to our 
Board, and we welcome his contributions to 
the Board.
Charlotta joins the Nomination and Audit 
Committees. Charlotta qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant at Ernst & Young before 
spending a career in investment banking 
and commercial organisations, principally in 
technology-related businesses. We welcome 
Charlotta’s experience and insight.
People
I wish to thank our employees for their 
outstanding contributions over the past year, 
which have been crucial in strengthening 
the Company’s position. I also thank our 
shareholders for their continued support of 
the Company during a period encompassing 
substantial expansion and change.
Outlook
Consort has continued to deliver consistent 
organic growth from its portfolio of products 
in volume manufacturing. At the same time 
it has continued to progress and add to 
its expanding product development and 
innovation pipelines with new projects,  
know-how and platform development in 
device development to enable this broad 
growth to continue.
The acquisition of Aesica brings significant 
further know-how and process technology 
to Consort’s range of pharma services. This 
will enable further organic growth within both 
Bespak and Aesica individually, and jointly as 
the two businesses combine their expertise 
to provide joined up development and supply 
chain solutions to satisfy customers’ needs.
The Board is confident that this enlarged 
pipeline of opportunities and capabilities 
will underpin its growth ambitions, and is 
confident of meeting its expectations for the 
coming financial year. 
Dividend
The Board has reviewed the dividend, and 
is proposing an unchanged final dividend of 
11.68p (FY2014: 11.68p restated for rights 
issue), making a total dividend for the year of 
18.11p (FY2014: 18.11p). Before adjusting 
for the effect of the rights issue made in 
the year, this equates to a final dividend of 
13.35p (FY2014: 13.35p), and a full year 
dividend of 20.7p (FY2014: 20.7p). The 
dividend will be paid on 23 October 2015 to 
shareholders on the register at 25 September 
2015, following our AGM on 3 September 
2015.
Dr Peter Fellner
Chairman
Consort Medical plc  consortmedical.com  
Stock Code: CSRT
Our Business
Strategic Report
3
