 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
This has been a transformational year for 
Consort Medical, during which we have 
acquired and successfully integrated 
Aesica, whilst delivering continued organic 
growth from Bespak. Aesica fulfils a stated 
strategic aim to diversify horizontally and 
vertically in drug delivery, and we are excited 
by the opportunities which this business 
combination provides, enabling us to offer 
a much broader service offering to our 
customers. Our development and innovation 
activities have continued to progress strongly 
in the year, delivering key milestones to 
underpin several potential avenues of growth 
for Consort.
Highlights
•	 Continuing revenue and profit growth 
with resilient core markets, supplemented 
by contribution from Aesica following its 
acquisition on 12 November 2014 
•	 Growth in adjusted EPS
2
 of 12.9% to 
47.8p per share
•	 Unchanged final dividend of 11.68p per 
share; total full year dividend unchanged 
at 18.11p
•	 Acquisition, and successful integration, of 
Aesica — significantly expands Group’s 
capabilities and opportunities for future 
growth 
 —Positive reception from customers
•	 MHRA marketing authorisation for Voke
®
 
brings launch closer 
•	 Award of two new development contracts 
for Injectables 
•	 Significant new multi-year supply 
agreement for proprietary integrated dose 
counter (IDC) system and pressurised 
metered dose inhaler (pMDI) valve, 
representing the first commercial oral 
variant of the device
•	 Significant progress in commercial/
development opportunities for Syrina
®
 and 
Lila
®
•	 Commercial unveiling of Lapas
®
, a new 
range of innovative bolus injection devices 
powered by Vapoursoft
®
•	 Further investment in Atlas Genetics — 
validation processes on the cartridge and 
manufacturing line at an advanced stage
Summary of Financial 
Performance
Revenue increased by £84.8m (84.8%) 
to £184.8m (FY2014: £100.0m); Bespak 
delivered continuing growth of 5.8% to 
£105.8m (FY2014: £100.0m), notably 
from continuing market penetration from 
the Chiesi NEXThaler
®
 and Dr. Reddy’s 
Sumatriptan auto-injector. Aesica contributed 
£79.0m of revenue in the 5.5 months since 
its acquisition in November 2014. Using 
exchange rates assumed in the acquisition, 
Aesica’s revenues would have been £83.3m 
and EBIT before special items £4.7m, 
reflecting Euro exchange rate headwinds 
since the acquisition (from €1.2:£1 to 
€1.33:£1).
Operating profit before special items 
increased by 33.5% to £25.1m (FY2014: 
£18.8m); this included 11.3% growth from 
Bespak to £20.9m (FY2014: £18.8m), which 
continues to deliver strong operating leverage 
from higher revenues. The Bespak EBIT 
includes a reduced central cost allocation 
of £0.8m, without which its EBIT growth 
would have been £1.4m or 7.3% at £20.1m. 
Aesica contributed £4.2m to EBIT in the 
5.5 month period since acquisition, after an 
allocation of central costs of £0.8m. Group 
operating margin reduced to 13.6% as 
expected following the acquisition of Aesica; 
the Bespak operating margin grew to 19.8% 
(FY2014: 18.8%), and the Aesica operating 
margin in the period was 5.2%, including 
the central cost allocation of £0.8m. Using 
exchange rates assumed in the acquisition, 
Aesica’s revenue would have been £83.3m 
and EBIT before special items £4.7m, 
reflecting Euro exchange rate headwinds 
since the acquisition (from €1.2:£1 to 
€1.33:£1)
Special items amount to £17.2m in the 
year (FY2014: £1.4m). This comprises: 
Aesica acquisition costs of £5.4m; Aesica 
integration costs of £1.9m; amortisation of 
intangible assets of £6.8m (FY2014: £0.8m), 
being £0.8m relating to The Medical House, 
and £6.0m relating to Aesica; accelerated 
amortisation of upfront facility fees of £0.3m; 
and other costs of £2.8m which include the 
unwinding of the uplift in the book value of 
inventory held by Aesica on acquisition, as 
required by accounting standards.
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review 
A Transformational Year
This has been a 
transformational year 
for Consort Medical, 
with continuing 
organic growth from 
Bespak and the 
acquisition of Aesica. 
Jonathan Glenn
Consort Medical plc  
Annual Report & Accounts  
for the year ended 30 April 2015
14 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Group profit before tax and special items 
increased by £5.2m (29.5%) to £22.7m 
(FY2014: £17.5m). Adjusted EPS increased 
by 12.9% to 47.8p per share (FY2014: 
42.3p
2
). Basic unadjusted EPS decreased by 
62.9% to 15.4p per share (FY2014: 41.5p
2
).
Cash generated from operations
3
 increased 
by £9.2m to £28.4m (FY2014: £19.2m). 
EBITDA before special items
3
 grew £8.8m 
(36.0%) to £33.2m (FY2014: £24.4m): 
Bespak EBITDA grew 7.3% to £26.2m, with 
Aesica adding £7.0m of EBITDA for the 5.5 
month period from acquisition. Working 
capital
4
 (excluding contingent consideration 
payable and receivables) increased £21.2m 
to £34.1m (FY2014: £12.9m) which 
represents 12.3% of sales (FY2014: 12.9%). 
Capital expenditure of £20.7m (FY2014: 
£16.3m) included £16.9m from Bespak as 
the business continued to make significant 
planned investments in facilities and 
production capacity to fulfil its development 
pipeline contracts.
The Group balance sheet closed with a 
net debt position of £99.2m (FY2014: net 
cash £25.8m), representing gearing of 2.3x 
Net Debt: EBITDA, comfortably within the 
banking facility covenant (maximum 3.25x), 
and in line with our expectations at the time 
of the Aesica acquisition. Interest cover was 
19.8x against a covenant minimum of 3.0x. 
The Group has comfortable cash resource 
availability.
The Board is proposing an unchanged 
final dividend of 11.68p (FY2014: 11.68p), 
making a total dividend for the year of 18.11p 
(FY2014: 18.11p). Before adjusting for the 
effect of the rights issue made in the year, 
this equates to a final dividend of 13.35p 
(FY2014: 13.35p), and a full year dividend of 
20.7p (FY2014: 20.7p). Further commentary 
on the financial results is contained in the 
Bespak and Aesica business reviews below, 
and within the Financial Review.
Acquisition of Aesica 
Consort Medical acquired Aesica Holdco 
Limited on 12 November 2014 for a total 
consideration of £226.6m, following approval 
at an EGM on 16 October 2014. Aesica 
is highly complementary to Bespak, and 
the combination provides clear strategic, 
competitive and value enhancing benefits, 
as well as a number of opportunities for the 
enlarged Group consistent with Consort’s 
diversification strategy:
•	 It diversifies the Group into adjacent 
markets and technologies, to capture 
additional value in the drug/device supply 
chain: horizontally into oral delivery, 
and vertically into drug formulation and 
manufacturing.
•	 Strengthens strategic market position: 
together Bespak and Aesica provide a 
broader, deeper and more integrated 
pharma services offering. It optimises drug 
and delivery devices in a single group to 
streamline, accelerate and reduce the 
cost of drug/device development and 
manufacturing for pharma customers. 
•	 Captures greater value from the supply 
chain: big pharma are seeking fewer, 
yet deeper, CDMO partnerships. The 
acquisition increases the depth of 
customer relationships by embedding the 
enlarged Group at multiple levels in the 
drug and delivery device supply chain.
•	 Geographic expansion: this expands the 
Group’s production facilities into mainland 
Europe. We envisage establishing Bespak 
production lines in Aesica’s overseas 
regulated facilities. The combination 
also increases our sales presence and 
customer access globally.
•	 Operational benefits: the acquisition 
provides development, manufacturing and 
operational efficiencies.
•	 Revenue benefits: future revenue synergies 
are expected from new drug/device 
combinations, as well as cross selling 
between Bespak and Aesica’s highly 
complementary pharma customer bases.
•	 Increases scale and critical mass: 
the acquisition creates a much larger 
pharmaceutical services business, in 
breadth, depth and geographies. This 
scale will facilitate further growth, both 
organically, and through additional 
acquisitions.
Integration and Future Roadmap
Following completion of the acquisition, the 
Group initiated a rapid (three month) but 
comprehensive integration programme in 
order to achieve the following:
•	 Commercial orientation: bring the 
commercial teams together to fully 
understand each other’s service offerings, 
to identify cross selling and integrated 
commercial offerings opportunities, and to 
plan their realisation.
•	 Reorganisation/Initiatives: further validate 
and realise the potential synergies and 
opportunities identified in due diligence 
from combining the two businesses. 
Make appropriate reorganisation actions 
to realise the identified synergies and 
opportunities, and initiate processes to 
realise longer-term benefits.
•	 Alignment: align the Aesica business 
with the Consort Medical controls and 
management systems.
The following has been implemented as a 
result of this integration process:
Alignment
A number of initiatives have been completed 
to align Aesica’s controls, policies and 
reporting with the Group. These are 
described in more detail in the Financial 
Review.
Photograph:
Chiesi NEXThaler
®
1
  Financial performance metrics relate to continuing 
operations unless stated otherwise.
2
  FY2014 earnings per share is adjusted for the 
impact of the rights issue completed in November 
2014.
3
  Cash flow performance metrics are before any 
cash paid relating to special items.
4
  Working capital is defined as the total of inventory, 
trade and other receivables and trade and other 
payables.
Consort Medical plc  consortmedical.com  
Stock Code: CSRT
15
Our Performance
Strategic Report 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Reorganisation/Initiatives
•	 Newcastle: this has been changed from 
a corporate head office to a shared 
services centre for certain Aesica-wide 
key business processes and UK financial 
accounting. The Newcastle office will be 
closed and the shared services centre 
migrated to alternative premises locally, at 
a cash cost of c.£1.2m.
•	 Monheim restructuring: this process 
was already planned at the time of the 
acquisition, and is a major restructuring of 
Operations to improve productivity of the 
site. This will result in the reconfiguration of 
the activities, and headcount reductions, at 
a cash cost of £3.0m.
•	 Nottingham site relocation: the 
Formulation development activities from 
the Nottingham site are to be moved to 
existing facilities (that will be refurbished) 
at Queenborough. This progressive move 
is expected to be completed over the next 
six months, at a cash cost of c.£3.5m.
•	 Leadership: the leadership of the 
Aesica business has been reorganised, 
consolidating a number of duplicate 
corporate activities, and reconfigured as a 
divisional structure under the direction of 
Ian Muir as divisional MD. 
 The majority of the divisional team will 
be co-located at the existing Consort 
corporate offices in Hemel Hempstead.
•	 Procurement: whilst the direct materials 
of the Bespak and Aesica business are 
dissimilar, their combined overhead 
spends provide opportunities to 
leverage procurement benefits to the 
enlarged group, and a Procurement 
Forum comprising the two businesses’ 
Purchasing teams has been created to 
realise these benefits.
Commercial
A core aspect of the acquisition rationale was 
to harness cross-selling opportunities, and 
to secure development and manufacturing 
opportunities for combined formulation and 
device services.
Following the acquisition, the Bespak and 
Aesica commercial teams have worked 
closely together to better understand each 
other’s capabilities and strengths. They now 
have the joint mission to support their core 
divisional activities, to facilitate introductions 
for their sister division’s commercial teams to 
access their core customer relationships, and 
to work together jointly to secure combined 
formulation and device contracts.
Since the acquisition, a number of meetings 
have been held with customers, from senior 
executive level collaborative meetings 
between commercial and technical teams 
working on specific business opportunities. 
Customers’ reaction to the combination of 
the businesses has been positive, reinforcing 
our strong belief in the attractiveness and 
strategic relevance of the combination to 
Pharma partners.
Both Bespak and Aesica have gained 
meaningful access to customers whom they 
had previously not been acquainted with for 
their respective discrete service offerings.
A significant number of joint meetings have 
also been held looking at joint service offering 
to customers, with good traction on live 
opportunities. Whilst it is still early days in a 
long business development cycle, we are 
encouraged by the speed of access and 
progress on live opportunities.
Chief  
Executive’s  
Review 
continued
Funding
The £226.6m consideration for the acquisition was financed through a rights issue, drawn down under a new debt facility, existing cash and the 
issue of new ordinary shares to Aesica management. The sources and uses were as follows:
Sources £m Uses £m
Rights issue (gross proceeds) £98.9m Cash consideration £214.2m
New debt £115.9m Shares to Aesica management £10.8m
New shares £10.8m Transaction costs £11.8m
Existing cash £11.2m
Total £236.8m Total £236.8m
The rights issue was structured as 5 for 8 
shares, priced at 540p, representing a 34% 
discount to the Theoretical Ex Rights Price 
(TERP). It was strongly subscribed to by 
shareholders — 96%, with the 4% rump 
placed very swiftly following closure. All 
Consort directors who were shareholders 
took up their rights in full.
A new debt package was established with 
Barclays, Lloyds, RBS and Santander as 
participants: a £160m, multi-currency, 
revolving facility over five years, replacing the 
existing facilities. A further £65m accordion 
facility was included.
Financials
Aesica has a consistent track record of 
revenue and EBITDA growth and is cash 
generative — the significant majority of 
revenues are contracted and recurring, 
resulting in strong visibility of future revenues. 
Aesica’s 2013 revenue was £179.0m 
and EBITDA of £20.0m. The acquisition 
generates enlarged Group FY2014 pro forma 
revenues of £279.0m and pro forma EBITDA 
of £44.4m.
The acquisition is expected, pre synergies, 
to be materially EPS enhancing in FY2016 
and materially EPS enhancing in subsequent 
financial years.
The pro forma opening leverage was 2.3x 
enlarged Group underlying EBITDA, with 
leverage reduction to <2.0x net debt/
underlying EBITDA within the first full financial 
year.
Revenue synergies are expected from 
the integration of the Bespak and Aesica 
businesses, with significant opportunities for 
cross selling between highly complementary 
pharma customer bases.
Consort Medical plc  
Annual Report & Accounts  
for the year ended 30 April 2015
16 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Background on Aesica
Aesica is a leading, full service provider 
of contract research, development and 
manufacturing services for finished dose 
forms and APIs to the global pharmaceutical 
industry.
Revenues in 2013 were £179.0m, 84% of 
which was in Finished Dose Manufacturing, 
4% in Finished Dose Development, 12% 
in API development and manufacturing 
services.
Aesica has a number of strengths and  
key attractions: 
•	 Strong technology base and enhanced 
capabilities: significant investment has 
already been made in facilities and 
technologies with the aim of ensuring 
“best in class” quality and reliability. Aesica 
has developed an innovative continuous 
manufacturing process, and has dedicated 
high capacity and high potency drug 
manufacturing units at Queenborough.
•	 Broad geographic footprint: c.1,250 
employees across six manufacturing and 
development facilities in the UK, Germany 
and Italy, supplying products globally. 
Aesica has a sales reach into the key 
pharma markets of US, Europe, Japan  
and China.
•	 Complementary blue-chip customer 
base: deep relationships with a number 
of blue-chip, global pharma companies 
including GSK, J&J (Noramco), Merck and 
UCB. Aesica’s customer base is highly 
complementary to Consort’s.
•	 Heavily embedded customer relationships: 
Aesica has a strong competitive position 
due to deep, long-term customer 
relationships, technological know-how, 
and local regulatory environments. It is 
heavily embedded in the supply chains of 
its customers.
•	 Strong financial performance: Aesica has 
a consistent track record of revenue and 
EBITDA growth and is cash generative. 
The significant majority of revenues are 
contracted and recurring resulting in strong 
visibility of future revenues.
Strategy update
The strategy for the Group following the 
integration of Aesica remains unchanged. 
Core principles of strategy articulated and 
executed since 2008 are constant. However, 
we have refreshed our articulation of these 
strategic priorities for the enlarged Group:
Old
Operating leverage
Organic growth: New product portfolio
Organic growth: Diversify to adjacent markets
Organic growth: Higher value models
Enhancement/Acquisition
New
Organic growth: Leverage core strengths
Organic growth: Broaden services offering
Organic growth: Capture more of value chain
Operating leverage: Margin expansion
Drive Innovation
Enhancement/Acquisition
Organic Growth: Leverage Core 
Strengths/Business With Existing 
and New Customers
Both Bespak and Aesica have core strengths, 
capabilities, and customer relationships 
in both drug delivery devices and drug 
formulation development and manufacturing. 
Our strategy is to leverage these strengths, 
capabilities and relationships within each of 
the devices and formulation businesses to 
win new devices and formulation business 
from existing and new customers.
Organic Growth: Broaden Group 
Services Offering to Capture 
Adjacent Markets and Territories
The acquisition of Aesica provides a 
significant broadening of the Group’s services 
offering to customers. The Group will 
continue to broaden its capabilities in different 
devices and formulation technologies to 
capture adjacent markets.
Organic Growth: Capturing More 
of the Value Chain
Bespak’s organic move into commercial 
drug handling already accessed more value 
in device-related services. The acquisition 
of Aesica allows the Group to extend this to 
capture more of the value chain in specific 
customer/drug opportunities, enabling a 
single integrated supply chain model of  
drug API, formulation and device 
development and manufacturing.
Operating Leverage: Margin 
Expansion from Volume Growth 
and On-Going Cost Efficiency
We have strong business infrastructures 
which provide our competence offerings to 
customers. We will continue to harness the 
operating leverage which comes from driving 
greater volumes through our businesses, 
whilst continuing to deliver cost efficiencies 
and continuous improvement.
Innovation: Drive Innovation 
to Develop New Device and 
Formulation Technologies
Bespak has developed a dynamic and 
successful innovation model, generating  
new device platforms and capabilities.  
Aesica has also been successful in 
developing new formulations, and new 
formulation process technologies. We will 
continue to invest to organically develop 
innovative device and formulation offerings to 
existing and adjacent markets.
Enhancement: Selective 
Acquisitions and Investments
The core of our strategy continues to be 
the development and enhancement of 
organic growth. Our investments in Atlas 
Genetics, and the acquisitions of The Medical 
House and Aesica, are consistent with this 
enhancement. With this in mind, we will 
continue to evaluate suitable opportunities 
to further enhance our core capabilities with 
further investments/acquisitions to increase 
our customer offerings.
Consort Medical plc  consortmedical.com  
Stock Code: CSRT
17
Our Performance
Strategic Report 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Chief  
Executive’s  
Review 
continued
Bespak Review
1
Operations
FY2015 FY2014 @ cc
2
Growth % FY2014
Revenue £105.8m £100.0m 5.8% £100.0m
EBITDA £26.2m £24.4m 7.3% £24.4m
EBITDA margin % 24.8% 24.4% 24.4%
EBIT £20.9m £18.8m 11.3% £18.8m
EBIT margin % 19.8% 18.8% 18.8%
Sales of the Chiesi NEXThaler
®
 continued 
to grow strongly, with device sales up 36%. 
Further territory launches took place during 
the year, further underpinning these sales, 
and we continue with the extension to the 
manufacturing capacity at King’s Lynn to 
support the customer’s growth ambitions 
for this product. Sales of DPI (Dry Powder 
Inhaler) devices were also lifted by significant 
sales of pre-production development devices 
on the DEV610 programme.
The Dr. Reddy’s Sumatriptan auto-injector 
has sold strongly since its launch in February 
2014, and during this year, performing ahead 
of our expectations.
With the Bespak development pipeline now 
boasting 12 programmes, service revenue 
has continued to grow, up 19% in the year as 
we expand our industrialisation activities to 
progress these opportunities.
Bespak continued to perform strongly in 
operating margin and EBITDA margin, with 
the incremental volumes dropping through 
strongly to the bottom line, improving 
operating margin from 18.8% to 19.8%. With 
revenues increasing 5.8%, EBITDA grew 
7.3% and operating profit increased 11.3% 
to £20.9m.
Capital expenditure continued at higher 
levels than historic norms, as expected, 
as investments continued to support the 
major programmes advancing through the 
Development pipeline towards launch. Capital 
expenditure was therefore similar to the prior 
year at £16.9m (FY2014: £16.3m).
We have continued to develop our people 
and working environment on a number of 
fronts. Growing our skills and management/
leadership capabilities are core elements in 
delivering our planned growth. Training and 
development has continued in the year with 
the delivery of a management development 
programme which is mid-way through 
its scheduled roll-out, with good results. 
We have also continued the expansion of 
our apprenticeship programme, with the 
recruitment of four additional apprentices, 
and expect to add further recruits over the 
next year. We have continued to deliver on 
initiatives commenced following employee 
survey feedback, and have continued 
the Values communication and training 
programme. These values are Customer 
Focus, Integrity, Respect, Team Work and 
Results Driven and will be the focus of how 
we manage the business.
Significant investment has continued in 
development of the facilities at Kings Lynn 
and Milton Keynes, to accommodate our 
growth in production volumes both for 
currently launched products and for products 
currently in development. Most notably, 
the facilities for the expansion of the Chiesi 
NEXThaler
®
 are well advanced, DEV200 
(Nicovations) in Kings Lynn and Milton 
Keynes are complete and equipped, and 
construction of DEV610 was completed in 
May 2015 and equipping has commenced. 
In January 2015, we announced Consort’s 
subscription for a further investment of 
£2.2m in Atlas Genetics Ltd (“Atlas”) as part 
of a £12.7m Series C funding. Consort’s 
subscription was proportionate to its existing 
17.3% shareholding in Atlas (15.2% on a 
fully diluted basis). Consort has invested a 
total to date of £6.3m in the company, which 
develops ultra-rapid point-of-care diagnostic 
tests for infectious diseases. Atlas’ io
®
 system 
is at an advanced stage of development and 
is expected to be launched in Europe with a 
test for chlamydia later this year. The Series 
C investment is being used to accelerate the 
launch of the io
®
 system, initiate US clinical 
trials, and expand the menu of tests available 
initially in the sexually transmitted infections 
(STI) and hospital acquired infections (HAI) 
markets. Bespak has a multi-year exclusive 
development and supply agreement with 
Atlas for the diagnostic test cartridges, and 
in June 2014 announced the completion 
of the manufacturing line for Atlas. 
Qualification processes on the cartridge and 
manufacturing line are at an advanced stage.
Product Development
We have a strong and diverse core business 
of products in volume manufacturing. In line 
with our strategy we have assembled a full 
and broad product development pipeline 
of organic growth opportunities which will 
add to the strength of this core business 
going forwards. Successful conversion of 
these opportunities will provide progressive 
revenue and profit growth, in both contract 
manufacturing and products with our 
own proprietary IP and across a range of 
therapeutic areas including commercial drug 
handling.
Our published development portfolio provides 
an update on the key business development 
projects in the business. We guide that for 
inclusion in the published portfolio, projects 
must have a reasonable expectation of 
success — though timescales are difficult to 
predict — and be expected to produce peak 
annual sales of at least £3m per annum. 
In the period, we successfully added three 
new projects to our development pipeline. 
These include two Injectables projects, and 
one respiratory:
•	 INJ650 is for our ASI
®
 (Auto Safety Injector) 
auto-injector technology, and follows the 
successful launch of this technology into 
the market of the Dr. Reddy’s Sumatriptan 
autoinjector in February 2014.
•	 INJ700 is a project for our Lila Mix
™
, 
recently developed by our Innovation 
Centre in Cambridge. The product enables 
two drugs to be stored in the same syringe 
and mixed immediately before injection. It 
accompanies the Lila Duo
™
 and Lila Bio
™
 
products unveiled last year. 
Consort Medical plc  
Annual Report & Accounts  
for the year ended 30 April 2015
18 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
•	 IDC300 is a multi-year development and 
supply agreement covering supply of both 
the IDC actuator and the pressurised 
metered dose inhaler (pMDI) valve. This 
IDC programme represents the first 
commercial oral variant of the device, 
which is already approved and marketed 
for a nasally delivered product. Dose-
counting devices fulfil an important patient 
and compliance need to let patients know 
if their device contains sufficient drug 
and to indicate when they need to seek 
a further prescription. It provides patients 
with a reliable, easy to read indication of 
how many doses are left inside the canister 
in line with FDA guidance.
With the addition of the three new 
programmes, the portfolio has grown to 12 
live programmes. The status of the major 
programmes currently in our development 
pipeline is listed below.
On existing programmes in the pipeline, the 
following are the most notable updates:
•	 DEV200/“Voke
®
”: As previously 
announced, MHRA granted a Marketing 
Authorisation for Voke
®
 in September 
2014. In February 2015 Kind Consumer 
was granted Marketing Authorisation 
for the variation to Voke
®
 from the 
MHRA incorporating refinements into 
the products. BAT have indicated their 
expectation of product launch later in 
2015.
Production facilities to support product 
launch are already in place at the Bespak 
King’s Lynn facility. Production readiness of 
the expanded facilities in King’s Lynn and 
Milton Keynes to support the full contracted 
volumes is well advanced.
•	 DEV610: Good progress has been made 
with the product development and with 
the building of the new facility. Following 
changes in the customer’s launch strategy, 
the expected launch date has moved to 
the second half of 2016.
•	 INJ600/Steadymed: Good progress 
has been made on this programme. 
The customer has filed for orphan drug 
designation and been granted patents and 
patent extensions. Steadymed completed 
an IPO on Nasdaq in March 2015. The 
programme is aiming for device validation 
and verification H1 2016.
Development and Industrialisation 
Process
Bespak operates in every phase of a device’s 
development life cycle, from early to late 
stage clinical trials, as well as post-launch 
where the business may become a second 
source of supply. Device suppliers who 
partner with customers whilst a product is 
in development invariably become the sole 
supplier at launch. Bespak’s preference is  
for early involvement where it is possible 
to apply greatest influence on the product 
design, not just to assure functional 
robustness but to ensure the device is 
suitable for high volume manufacture. 
Whilst the overall approval timescales for drug 
delivery devices are long, the development 
lead times can be very aggressive in order to 
achieve clinical and launch deadlines. Bespak 
recognises that product development is an 
iterative process and it aspires to reduce the 
number of iterations required for a product, 
whilst progressing through each iteration as 
quickly as possible. In order to achieve this, 
the business has developed capabilities and 
competencies internally as well as having 
established a network of third party specialist 
suppliers. Internal capabilities include 3D CAD 
platforms, mouldflow simulation, 3D printing 
(suitable for early stage functional evaluation), 
CT Scanning and an extensive laboratory 
capable of analytical and physical testing 
with both placebo and active ingredients. 
Bespak was an early investor in CT Scanning 
technology and it has proved pivotal in 
the diagnosis of discovery during product 
development. Rapid identification of root cause 
significantly reduces development iteration and 
reduces the associated lead times. 
1
  Financial performance metrics relate to continuing 
operations unless stated otherwise.
2
  Restated using the acquisition assumption 
exchange rate of €1.20 - £1
Bespak’s Development Portfolio – 12 Live Programmes
PROJECT DESCRIPTION CUSTOMER STATUS
VAL310
INJ570
VAL020
DEV200
POC010
DEV610
❱❱ Easiﬁll primeless valve ❱❱ US Pharma ❱❱ Awaiting regulatory approval
❱❱ Auto-injector ❱❱ Global Pharma ❱❱ Awaiting regulatory approval
❱❱ MDI valve ❱❱ Global Pharma ❱❱ Stability trials complete
❱❱ Nicotine delivery ❱❱ Nicoventures ❱❱ MHRA marketing authorisation and variation 
granted. Launch expected in 2015
❱❱ Nasal device ❱❱ Global Generic ❱❱ Formulation change; brief under review
❱❱ Nasal device
NAS020
❱❱ POC test cartridge ❱❱ Atlas Genetics ❱❱ Awaiting CE marking
NAS030
❱❱ DPI ❱❱ Global Pharma ❱❱ Good progress. Launch now expected 
in H2 2016
INJ600
❱❱ Global Pharma ❱❱ Early stage programme
❱❱ Patchpump® 
for Trepostinel
INJ650
❱❱ SteadyMed 
Therapeutics 
❱❱ Good progress made
NDA submission planned H1 2016
❱❱ ASI® auto-injector
INJ700
❱❱ Global Generic ❱❱ Contract awarded in October 2014
❱❱ Lila Mix® injector
IDC300
❱❱ Pharma Co. ❱❱ Contract awarded in October 2014
❱❱ Oral IDC ❱❱ Pharma Co. ❱❱ Contract awarded in February 2015
DPI = Dry Powder Inhaler, MDI = Metered Dose Inhaler, POC = Point of Care, IDC = Integrated Dose Counter 
Consort Medical plc  consortmedical.com  
Stock Code: CSRT
19
Our Performance
Strategic Report 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
In order to meet its customers’ new product 
industrialisation needs, Bespak has evolved 
a framework which is tailored to meet the 
individual requirements of each programme. 
A programme manager navigates the journey 
from entry into the business, through product 
and process development, to handover into 
commercial manufacturing. The process is 
risk based and whilst stages exist in series, 
they are often run in parallel to compress  
lead times. All activities are undertaken in  
full compliance with applicable guidelines  
and regulations.
Innovation
The Innovation team has continued to be 
highly active on a number of fronts over 
the past year. The team has now grown to 
21 (16 at 30 June 2014), and in December 
2014 moved into its own dedicated facilities 
in Cambridge. These became operational 
in January 2015 and provide laboratory 
and development scale facilities as well as 
enlarged accommodation for the current 
research and design/development operations.
The Innovation pipeline has progressed 
broadly during the period across a number of 
therapeutic areas and technologies.
Chief  
Executive’s  
Review 
continued
Syrina 
mini
Cagney
Lila mix
Nina AS
Syrina AR
Syrina S
Belinda 
EPI-ASI
Syrina
micro
Lila lyo
VapourSoft
indicate
VapourSoft
control
VapourSoft
VapourSoft
retract
VapourSoft
housing
VapourSoft
advance
VapourSoft
Safety
Lila Duo/
Bio
Unidose
Area Platform Function Product
On 
Demand
OPPORTUNITY
GATE A
IDENTIFIED NEED
GATE D
ROBUST CONCEPT
GATE B
FEASIBLE
GATE C
PROVEN
Drug Prep
Ophthalmic
Oncology
Powdered
drug
Patient
compliance
Lila
valve
Lapas 
Florence 
ASI
Bespak has a proven track record in 
developing both proprietary products and 
products owned by others. The Easifill
®
 
primeless valve is a proprietary product 
currently pending FDA approval via a lead 
customer. This product was designed 
to meet an unmet need in the market. 
Development increased the breadth of the 
organisation’s Intellectual Property portfolio 
whilst challenging and helping to evolve 
internal capabilities and competencies. 
Development progressed through pilot tooling 
and hand assembly with extensive laboratory 
product verification testing to determine 
iterative requirements to achieve robustness 
suitable for volume manufacture. The product 
is currently manufactured using multi-
cavitation tooling and automated assembly 
with capacity in the millions. Variants of the 
Easifill valve are currently being sampled and 
evaluated by a range of other customers. 
On the Nicovations programme, Bespak’s 
role is to support the “Design Authority” not 
only to achieve the functional specification 
but to influence design such that the product 
is suitable for high volume manufacture. 
Bespak’s experience of drug/device interaction 
is critical to analysis of the root cause and 
solution generation from discovery to device 
approval. The product leverages Bespak’s 
metered dose inhaler valve technology and 
medical device product expertise, making 
Bespak the ideal partner of choice.
Syrina
®
 and Lila
®
 Update
Following the commercial unveiling of  
Syrina
®
 and Lila
®
 at the PDA exhibition in 
November 2013, we continue to generate 
widespread interest from several pharma 
companies with injectable drug portfolios. 
Within this, we are in discussions on a 
growing number of specific opportunities  
and product evaluations. 
The closure of our first development 
agreement for the Lila Mix
®
 is the most 
advanced of these opportunities. On Syrina
®
 
we initiated a programme for a major biotech 
company to develop a product demonstrator; 
this was successfully delivered, and we are 
evaluating next steps with the customer.
Our presence at the PDA exhibition in 
October 2014 generated further interest  
in the opportunities available through  
these innovations. 
Lapas
®
 Commercial Unveiling
In addition to the commercialisation work 
on Syrina
®
 and Lila
®
, the Innovation team 
has developed and unveiled another new 
significant platform at the PDA exhibition in 
October 2014. Lapas
®
 is a bolus injector 
platform which enables large volumes 
(greater than 2.25ml) of injectable drug to be 
delivered constantly over an extended period 
of time (up to several hours). 
The target drug market includes biologics, 
where the viscosity and volume of some 
drugs means that there is significant benefit 
from powered injection. The platform 
incorporates our proprietary Vapoursoft
®
 
technology to “power” the injection for up  
to several hours. It is noteworthy that a 
number of chronic conditions include 
treatment with biologics.
Advantages of Lapas
®
 include the following: 
•	 Self-administration — this reduces the 
treatment cost to the health system as the 
patient does not need to attend a clinic; 
•	 Mobility and independence whilst being 
injected — the patient can continue with 
relatively normal activities whilst receiving 
their medication; and
•	 Simple adaptability of dose size/power 
source dependent on drug and viscosity 
providing lower configurability/adaptability 
risk and a simple delivery mechanism for 
pharma clients.
Bespak Innovation Pipeline
Consort Medical plc  
Annual Report & Accounts  
for the year ended 30 April 2015
20 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
This delivery technology combined with our 
other functional building blocks has enabled 
us to develop a range of five injection devices 
from a simple assisted injector — the Syrina
®
 
Micro, through to the sophisticated Syrina
®
 
AI which inserts the needle, delivers the drug, 
waits a short period of time to allow the drug 
to disperse before retracting and informs the 
patient that the process is complete and that 
the needle is safely shielded. Our Vapoursoft
®
 
gas propulsion system powers the injector 
with soft steady pressure, replacing the use 
of springs and overcoming the shortcomings 
of spring-powered injection in patient 
outcomes — such as physical impact, pain 
from force of injection, and glass breakage.
Innovation on Demand uses our increasing 
range of basic building blocks to solve the 
very specific challenges encountered by the 
client. This requires working closely with our 
clients to find solutions to those “difficult-to-
solve” challenges. As an example, a client 
has a drug that consists of two viscous liquid 
components that need mixing moments 
before injection but must be kept separate 
prior to this. The aim was to find a single 
device solution that was both easy to use and 
convenient for the clinician and patient alike. 
Armed with this brief and within four weeks of 
discussing the problem, the Innovation team 
was able to produce a working demonstrator 
of a potential device. This was a combination 
of proven functional elements and novel 
elements, and satisfied the basic requirements 
of our client. This has progressed to the award 
of a development contract for the Lila Mix
™
 
commercial device, INJ700.
Innovation Process
We have developed a range of “service” 
offerings and business models that are 
focused on meeting the needs of the market. 
This has involved building a team, drawn 
from a variety of backgrounds, and providing 
appropriate facilities in Cambridge.
With a larger team now in place we are 
making good progress in identifying unmet 
or unsatisfied market needs and generating 
viable concepts that meet the expectations 
of all parties involved with a drug device, 
including the patient, clinician and our Life 
Sciences partner. We are also looking at 
aspects of the supply chain and the drug as 
opportunities to innovate further. Through this 
effort, we have a full pipeline of development 
projects from simple functional elements 
through to full product developments and 
clearly identified opportunities that exist 
for both our “opportunity discovery” and 
“Innovation on Demand” offerings. 
The innovation process starts by investigating 
potential opportunities and using our four 
stage-gate process, and results in robust 
concepts that we know meet unsatisfied 
need and equally importantly will be 
reproducible in high volume manufacture. 
The primary objective of the process is to 
minimise the overall risk (commercial, user, 
pharmaceutical and technical) through 
early targeted mitigation activities, thereby 
maximising the chances of success once the 
product is in the market. 
We do not offer a one size fits all process: 
we listen to our clients and have taken the 
approach of creating a series of proven 
functional building blocks rather than 
developing a fixed device that solves a given 
specific problem. This approach provides 
the flexibility to meet the needs of our clients 
in two ways: opportunity discovery and 
Innovation on Demand.
Opportunity discovery allows us to build 
device solutions that will satisfy the needs 
of our clients and identify new needs as 
well as those that are not met in the current 
market. For instance, there is a trend 
towards larger volume delivery of more 
viscous drugs. In response to this we have 
developed drug delivery techniques that 
enable these challenges to be overcome. 
Aesica Review
1
Operations
FY2015
(5.5 months)
FY2015 @
Acquisition FX
2
Revenue 79.0m 83.3m
EBITDA 7.0m 7.7m
EBITDA margin % 8.9% 9.2%
EBIT 4.2m 4.7m
EBIT margin % 5.3% 5.7%
Our semi-continuous manufacturing line was used to bring a manufactured product to  
market readiness. This is the first semi-continuous processing line and technology installed at 
a CDMO. 
Demand from existing key customers has been stable, and revenues have been lifted by a 
number of new market launches which have taken place as a result of the cross licensing of 
products in our current portfolio.
In API, Aesica continues its strong position in the global Flurbiprofen market. Additionally, a 
number of API development projects are entering the validation stage which are expected to 
give rise to future revenues.
Capex in the period has been consistent with our expectations at £3.7m.
Following the acquisition of Aesica, a number of alignment, reorganisation and commercial 
initiatives ensued, as described above. However, the focus of the majority of the business 
remained on ensuring continued reliability, delivery, and quality in spite of the ownership and 
organisational changes.
1
  Financial performance metrics relate to continuing operations unless stated otherwise.
2  
Restated using the acquisition assumption exchange rate of €1.20 - £1.
Consort Medical plc  consortmedical.com  
Stock Code: CSRT
21
Our Performance
Strategic Report 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Chief  
Executive’s  
Review 
continued
This business development cycle differs in 
some respects to that of Bespak; Bespak’s 
offering is a specific device-based service 
offering from innovation/development typically 
through to volume manufacturing.
The Aesica commercial team is focused 
on a growing pipeline of API/formulation 
development and manufacturing 
opportunities. In common with Bespak,  
there is significant contractual and 
commercial confidentiality as to the identity  
of specific projects and contracts.
A specific case study which illustrates 
Aesica’s ongoing business development is 
S+Flurbiprofen:
•	 Aesica is working with a leading  
Japanese pharmaceutical company 
to provide the active ingredient for an 
anti-inflammatory formulation containing 
S+flurbiprofen. The patch obtained good 
results in phase 3 clinical trials and in 
October 2014 a submission was filed 
for market approval with the Ministry of 
Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan for 
the indication of osteoarthritis. 
•	 Osteoarthritis is a chronic degenerative 
disease of the joints. The number of 
patients in Japan is estimated to be 24 
million for osteoarthritis of the knee joint 
and 35 million for lumbar spondylosis, 
with approximately 30% of these patients 
showing symptoms of pain. Considering 
that pain is a major cause of reduced 
quality of life, there are high hopes for the 
development of formulations that possess a 
powerful anti-inflammatory analgesic action.
•	 Aesica is a leading supplier of the active 
ingredient flurbiprofen and the modified 
S+flurbiprofen, and has supplied the 
product into the Japanese market for many 
years. Demand for the new formulation is 
expected to grow steadily from 2016.
Development Portfolio:
S+flurbiprofen
Aesica is working with a leading Japanese pharmaceutical company to provide the active ingredient for an anti-
inflammatory formulation containing S+flurbiprofen. The patch obtained good results in phase 3 clinical trials and in 
October 2014 a submission was filed for market approval with the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan for 
the indication of osteoarthritis.
Osteoarthritis is a chronic degenerative disease of the joints. The number of patients in Japan is estimated to be 
24 million for osteoarthritis of the knee joint and 35 million for lumbar spondylosis, with approximately 30% of these 
patients showing symptoms of pain. Considering that pain is a major cause of reduced quality of life (QOL), there are 
high hopes for the development of formulations that possess a powerful anti-inflammatory analgesic action.
Aesica is a leading supplier of the active ingredient flurbiprofen and the modified S+flurbiprofen, and has supplied the 
product into the Japanese market for many years. Demand for the new formulation is expected to grow steadily from 2016.
Business Development and 
Innovation
Pipeline
Aesica has broadly two pools of business 
development: development services and 
manufacturing services, with some overlap. 
•	 In development services, it applies know-
how in API/formulation development to a 
wide range of project opportunities for a 
wide range of customers at different stages 
of the clinical trial cycle. 
•	 The bulk of its revenue today comes 
from the application of its process 
technology and know-how to specific 
drug manufacturing opportunities, many 
of which may be different from those API/
formulation development opportunities.
Consort Medical plc  
Annual Report & Accounts  
for the year ended 30 April 2015
22 23962.04    16 July 2015 12:23 PM   Proof 10
Development Portfolio:
Semi-Continuous Manufacturing
In collaboration with a key strategic 
customer, Aesica has brought 
to market readiness a product 
manufactured using the first semi-
continuous processing line and 
technology installed at a CDMO. 
The line delivers continuous flow, 
from the wet granulation stage, 
through to tablet compression. 
Unlike the more traditional batch-
based methods used for tablet 
manufacture, which take days with 
this process, after initial blending, 
the production of uncoated tablets 
is carried out in 40 minutes.
Aesica can offer semi-continuous 
manufacturing capacity to other 
customers and provides this service 
from its Queenborough, UK finished 
dose manufacturing facility.
Semi-continuous manufacturing 
meets the market demand for 
shortened drug development 
times, a reduction in the quantity 
of API required in development, 
and a reduction in clean down 
and batch transfer loss during the 
manufacturing process.
In addition, it enables process 
development, clinical scale 
manufacture and commercial 
manufacture to be carried out on 
the same piece of equipment. This 
results in rapid collection of data 
to demonstrate the robustness 
and quality of the manufacturing 
process using QbD (Quality by 
Design) principles.
In addition to API/formulation development 
and manufacturing in current areas of know-
how and production capabilities, Aesica 
is actively developing new areas of know-
how and process technology. Recently it 
has developed its capability in potent drug 
manufacture, and in its High Capacity plant. In 
FY2015, it concluded a process development 
project in semi-continuous processing:
•	 In collaboration with a key strategic 
customer, Aesica has brought to market 
readiness a product manufactured using 
the first semi-continuous processing line 
and technology installed at a CDMO. 
The line delivers continuous flow from 
the wet granulation stage through to 
tablet compression. Unlike the more 
traditional batch-based methods used 
for tablet manufacture, which take days 
with this process, after initial blending, the 
production of uncoated tablets is carried 
out in 40 minutes. 
•	 Aesica has the potential to offer semi-
continuous manufacturing capacity to 
other customers and provides this service 
from its Queenborough, UK finished dose 
manufacturing facility. 
•	 Semi-continuous manufacturing meets 
the market demand for shortened drug 
development times, a reduction in the 
quantity of API required in development 
and a reduction in clean down and batch 
transfer loss during the manufacturing 
process. In addition, it enables process 
development, clinical scale manufacture 
and commercial manufacture to be carried 
out on the same piece of equipment, 
resulting in rapid collection of data to 
demonstrate the robustness and quality 
of the manufacturing process, using QbD 
(Quality by Design) principles.
Jonathan Glenn 
Chief Executive
Consort Medical plc  consortmedical.com  
Stock Code: CSRT
23
Our Performance
Strategic Report
