 A YEAR OF 
PROGRESS
As you, our shareholders, partners and 
employees know, we manage our business 
and its relationships for the long term.
As you, our shareholders, partners and employees know, we manage 
our business and its relationships for the long term. In 2015, we 
made good progress in managing our cash, and with the sale early 
in the year of our recycling subsidiary RDC, and substantial cash 
generation in 2014, we were able to return £121.4 million by way 
of special and ordinary dividends. We will continue our focus on 
working capital usage and cash generation for the long haul.
Operationally, we have completed the implementation of the Group 
Operating Model, which enables us to deliver consistent service to our 
customers across the countries in which we operate, whilst retaining 
an in-country go to market approach in our geographies. This has 
taken more than four years of sustained effort, from the installation 
of our single ERP system to the required change in management 
reporting lines, and it has required constant focus on long-term 
goals while striving to deliver annual revenue and profit growth.
Our results in 2015 were pleasing as, despite a substantial decline in 
the Euro, we made our profit objective for the year, and on a constant 
currency
2
 basis grew our adjusted revenue
1
 by 5.5 per cent. In the UK, 
we implemented substantial new Managed Services contracts for a 
number of customers, in Germany we won a significant number of 
new contracts, and in France we made good progress in getting the 
operation properly focused and resourced. 
We continued diversification of our customer support capability 
with Barcelona, Cape Town, Budapest, Bangalore and Kuala Lumpur 
remaining key components of our long-term plans. In the future, we 
are planning to begin direct, rather than partner-based, operations 
in the USA, and the setting up of a support centre in Mexico. We serve 
customers in more than 100 countries, but we sell to enterprises 
whose home is in one of five countries being the UK, Germany, France, 
Belgium and Switzerland. In accordance with the Group’s strategy, we 
continue to invest in our Services capabilities with which we support 
and enable the end users of our customers.
I have chosen to underscore in this short letter our commitment to 
the long term, but we are pleased with the results for 2015, achieved 
despite challenges in the market and of our own making, and we are 
confident of continued progress in 2016. I thank our shareholders 
for their faith in us, our partners for their support, and our employees 
for their efforts and, of course, results. 
Greg Lock
Chairman
1 1 March 2016
03
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
