 Strategic report
6
Conviviality Retail Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement
It has been my privilege 
to lead this business 
since February 2013. 
Our people, our Franchisees and our 
suppliers have worked together with a 
common aim and belief that we can make 
a real difference in our local communities 
through a relentless focus on meeting our 
consumer needs while providing a unique 
customer experience. Our 389 Franchisees 
are local people, employing local people, 
and are passionate about their customers 
and the communities in which they 
trade. By operating at the heart of their 
communities they play a key role in 
re-energising their locality; their stores 
are exciting and energising places 
to shop and their employees serve 
with care, consideration and 
great responsibility.
Overview
An important aspect of our business 
model is flexibility, protecting our earnings 
through periods of significant change 
in our organisation and a competitive 
external environment. This year has seen 
our strategy of revitalising our brands, 
Bargain Booze, Select Convenience 
and Wine Rack, alongside infrastructure 
investment, gaining traction with 
customers and Franchisees.
Results
We have continued to deliver against 
our objectives set out at flotation in 
July 2013 and are pleased to report 
profits slightly ahead of expectations, 
during a year where we have delivered 
significant change across our business. 
Our EBITDA has remained resilient in 
spite of the later phasing of our store 
openings than planned and an earlier 
Easter. Revenue has improved this 
year by 2.4% versus a fall of 4.3% in the 
prior year and gross margin improved 
to 10.2% (2014: 9.2%). Profit before tax 
and exceptional items increased 4.4% 
to £9.7m. The Group remains debt free 
with net cash of £1.2m at the year end. 
Franchisees
We have been investing in our 
relationship with the Franchisees 
and our focus on driving the success 
of our Franchisees has seen more than 
20 existing Franchisees open new stores 
in the year. The number of stores owned 
by multiple Franchisees has increased by 
22%. It is pleasing that four of our existing 
Franchisees have added Wine Rack stores 
to their portfolio. For the last two years we 
have embarked on a major restructuring 
of our Franchisee base; this programme has 
now come to an end, arresting the number 
of closures, and we are successfully 
rebuilding the new store pipeline to fuel 
growth from a stronger base.
Our store numbers have increased 
to 624 representing a 4.9% increase 
on the prior year. Our offer to potential 
new Franchisees is increasingly compelling, 
enabling them to compete effectively and 
generate solid profits. Our core model 
is predicated by Franchisee loyalty and 
a commitment to upholding the values of 
our brands. This, combined with the high 
standards that we set, helps deliver our 
differentiated “local customer experience”.
We now have some of the highest 
levels of loyalty in the sector with our 
Franchisees buying 94.3% of all goods 
sold from Conviviality (2014: 93.3%).
Central to our plans is a motivated 
and equitably rewarded Franchise 
Creating 
successful relationships
Read more about our strategy 
and KPIs on pages 16 and 17
Read about our corporate 
social responsibility 
on pages 22 and 23 7
Conviviality Retail Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
We have built a unique diversity of sites 
satisfying different customer needs and 
providing a comprehensive offer close 
to our target customers, underpinned 
by the flexibility of our portfolio of fascias. 
This flexibility has made us attractive to 
larger Franchisees who wish to operate 
a number of fascias, making it easier for 
us to acquire and rebrand acquired 
parcels of diverse stores.
Franchisees joining the Group have 
been attracted by our unique Franchisee 
benefits, but importantly they see the value 
of being part of a collaborative and forward 
thinking group. Following the acquisition 
of GT News in February 2015, we were 
pleased to welcome Jonathan James, 
the former chairman of the Association 
of Convenience Stores and a well-respected 
entrepreneur within the convenience 
sector, to our Group. Jonathan has entered 
into a ten year franchise agreement taking 
control of 36 stores from the acquisition. 
Jonathan’s key reason for joining us 
was, and I quote, “Conviviality is truly 
championing local off-licence convenience 
on the high street; it’s this unique strategy 
that makes it stand out from the crowd.”
Expanding our geographical 
coverage is one of our substantial 
growth opportunities and this year 
we have analysed the optimal locations 
for growth across the UK. Our postcode 
analysis identified priority areas of the 
North East, Yorkshire, the South West and 
Scotland. We expect that a combination of 
current and new Franchisees, in particular 
North East Convenience Stores, will 
address the growth potential in the 
North East. Our acquisition in May 
last year of 31 Rhythm & Booze stores 
enabled growth in Yorkshire and the 
recent acquisition of 37 GT News stores 
strengthens this position and builds 
our presence in the East Midlands. 
Our ambition to grow in Scotland is 
being pursued via a trial with Scotmid 
to franchise stores. This trial is showing 
positive early signs. The first store 
opened in Stevenston, followed by 
Annan in June, and further stores 
will be opened during July.
The significant change we have driven over 
the last two years leaves us in a strong position 
to now drive growth into the business. 
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
base with our Franchisees valuing their 
involvement in the success of the Group. 
Importantly not only has Conviviality 
returned a strong financial performance 
but so have our Franchisees. This is 
key to the continuation of our success. 
All of our Franchisees have seen the 
potential to improve their profits by 
over £14,000 per year, compared to 
two years ago, through a consistent 
improvement in retail margin and 
the benefits of our award-winning 
Franchisee share scheme. We 
actively reward Franchisee loyalty 
and compliance and the Franchise 
share scheme enables Franchisees 
to be awarded up to 3,500 shares per 
store for achieving annual standards 
targets. This year 1.4m nil cost share 
options have been allocated under the 
Franchisee Incentive Plan and almost 
£900,000 has been awarded through 
the overrider scheme to our Franchisees.
Over the last 12 months we have 
welcomed 35 new Franchisees to the 
Group who we are working closely with 
to ensure their success within the Group. 
Strategic report Strategic report
8
Conviviality Retail Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement continued
Our brands
To support our Franchisees further and 
to help them to attract and retain more 
customers we have modernised our 
brands, helping our Franchisees become 
more connected with their customers 
through our use of social media and 
digital marketing. We have the highest 
number of active Facebook fans in our 
sector at 68,000 and we actively use 
social media to communicate offers and 
promotions. In April 2015 we piloted our 
Click and Collect service and rolled this 
out to our Franchisees, a unique offering 
for any franchise business. One of the 
early trial Franchisees said of Click and 
Collect, “The service was really slick 
to use and a huge leap forward.”
We continue to strengthen our brands; 
we have updated our image to a modern 
and fresh design, and an important part 
of the plan has been the roll out of our 
new fascia. This programme is nearing 
completion with 441 rebranded stores 
showing a 1.3% sales differential pre 
and post-change. The most important 
aspect of this programme is that 
Franchisees and their customers have 
been pleased with the new design.
To build our digital strategy we launched 
our “As if it wasn’t cheap enough” app 
in December 2014; this has already been 
downloaded over 30,000 times and we 
have had 50,000 redemptions. These 
developments are highly innovative in 
the convenience sector and I am excited 
about our plans for further progress 
in the year ahead.
Products
We have strengthened our position 
as a destination off-licence through 
the excellent collaboration between 
our buying team and our suppliers. More 
than 70 new suppliers are working with 
the Group and over 280 new products 
have been introduced in the year. We 
now have an unrivalled range of ales with 
over 70 premium bottled ales and over 
20 craft ales in our range. Our spirits range 
continues to improve and we are focused 
on the growing trend for premium and 
flavoured spirits. Our Master of Wine, 
Susan McCraith, alongside our wine buyers 
has continued to strengthen our wine 
category with sales increasing 10% year 
on year. This year we have been recognised 
for the hard work of our buying team, 
winning “Drinks Buying Team of the Year” 
at the Drinks Awards 2015.
Our pricing policy is to be everyday 
low promotionally priced. On average 
across our off-licence range we have 
been consistently 12%* cheaper than 
our competitors in spite of the heavy 
discounting in the market. Value and 
consistent pricing are important to 
our customers and they appreciate 
the transparency of our pricing strategy, 
which in turn increases customer loyalty.
Operational efficiencies
We have made significant investments 
this year to become more efficient and 
to ensure that we are ready for future 
growth. We have modernised our 
warehouse infrastructure, reracking and 
relamping our entire Crewe warehouse 
operation, without any disruption to trade, 
to ensure the flow of the warehouse is as 
efficient as possible with the ability to 
flex for growth. We have also undertaken 
maintenance works and refurbishments 
to our corporate stores, ensuring they 
are attractive for transfer to Franchisees. 
As a result our capital expenditure is 
above the prior year, driving defined 
benefits back into our operation. 
Our values set the tone for the entire 
organisation and give us our principles 
for how we work together. 
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
* Source: 24 I.S. Ltd. 9
Conviviality Retail Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
On 29 March 2015 we transferred the 
full transport operation of 160 drivers 
and team members from our third party 
provider CVL under the full control of 
Conviviality. It is our expectation that 
we will see positive benefits operationally 
and in the service levels provided 
to our Franchisees.
Looking ahead to the new financial year we 
are helping our Franchisees maximise their 
sales and margin by ensuring they have the 
right space and range to meet their target 
customer needs; this programme of space 
optimisation is expected to complete 
by the end of FY 15/16.
People
Developing our management capability 
and our employer brand has been a key 
part of our strategy.
In June 2014 we welcomed 
Andrew Humphreys to our Board as 
Chief Financial Officer and in October 2014 
we completed the Executive team with 
the appointment of Amanda Jones as 
Chief Operating Officer. We are continuing 
to build our marketing function and 
recently appointed Carol Savage as 
Chief Customer Officer. Carol’s newly 
created role is to further build recognition 
of our brands and develop even closer 
connections with our customers. Carol has 
extensive brand and digital experience 
over a 20 year career working with 
brands including Exodus and Sara Lee.
Our focus on our people has resulted 
in much closer engagement levels, 
regular feedback and involvement 
in decisions made through weekly 
communication throughout all levels 
of our business. We have commissioned 
annual engagement surveys and listening 
groups, and our most recent engagement 
survey had a 95% completion rate for 
our Head Office employees and 100% 
for Warehouse employees.
I am also pleased to see that our work 
to improve inclusion is showing positive 
progress. 18 months ago our employee 
base lacked any real diversity with 
minority race/country of origin at only 
2%; this is now at 10% of our workforce. 
Our business has a male-to-female ratio of 
59%:41%. This is skewed by our warehouse 
operations, which, due to the size and 
weight of products, appeal more to male 
workers. By removing the warehouse staff 
the ratio changes to 56% female and 
44% male. One of the most successful 
diversity achievements is within the senior 
management team, which is well balanced 
with 48% women and 52% men. In contrast, 
two years ago, this was 72% male to 28% 
female. The balance has changed largely 
organically reflecting the Executive board 
structure with more female role models 
and roles held by women throughout the 
organisation making a valuable contribution 
within the leadership structure.
Our values set the tone for the entire 
organisation and give us our principles 
of how we need to work together. 
I was certain that we didn’t want our 
values to be manufactured by the senior 
team in isolation as we wanted them to 
reflect what our people, throughout the 
organisation, felt were important to them. 
This meant valuing our heritage but also 
recognising that the business needed 
to move forward. Over 350 colleagues 
inputted to this process to create our 
company values and behaviours:
 > Passion: Using our passion and 
enthusiasm to embrace every 
challenge that comes our way 
and having fun whilst we do it.
 > Adaptable: Being flexible 
to the needs of the business.
 > Teamwork: Working as one team to 
achieve a common goal, supporting 
our Franchisees and each other.
 > Excellence: Making a difference by 
delivering and going the extra mile.
 > Professional: Acting with honesty 
and integrity, showing respect for 
others to build trusting, professional 
working relationships.
While we continue to drive significant 
change and raise every bar to uphold 
our professional standards, we believe 
our speed and agility are paramount 
and set us apart in the market.
Outlook
During the year ahead we plan to further 
leverage our wholesale capability into new 
markets. As wholesaler to our Franchisees 
we have built strong relationships with our 
suppliers and understand the dynamics of 
this market. We have decided to optimise 
these core skills to create opportunities in 
new channels such as corporate accounts. 
By operating a delivered wholesale model 
we can serve a diversity of customers 
and build our wines and spirits volumes 
further. These higher volumes offer 
complementary sources of trade which 
further strengthen our core business.
It is clear that, as we strengthen 
our brands and professionalise our 
business model, becoming a Franchisee 
of Conviviality Retail is an increasingly 
compelling option, with the ability to 
generate a good return on investment 
through our simple-to-execute formats. 
We offer a comprehensive franchise 
solution that is sector leading, providing 
back-office support, POS systems, pricing, 
promotion packages and marketing 
together with dedicated teams working 
with Franchisees ensuring regular contact 
with all levels of the business. It is our 
expectation that we will attract an increasing 
number of potential Franchisees interested 
in serving their local communities with 
our differentiated customer experience, 
benefiting from the good financial 
returns our model can generate.
The significant change we have driven 
over the last two years leaves us in a 
strong position to now drive growth 
into the business.
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
13 July 2015
Strategic report
