 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
02
Section 1: Business review
Chairman’ s review
Chairman’ s review
Business. Science. 
Opportunity . Acambis has undergone a very significant transition during  
the past year, following the appointment of a new high-quality 
management team.
 Our new management team possesses the experience 
and expertise to build Acambis into a robust vaccines company  
and I am pleased to report that they have already delivered  
a range of important advances. These will create new value  
in the Group and will underpin its future growth.
 Most notable has been the finalisation in April 2008  
of the large, multi-year warm-base manufacturing contract  
for ACAM2000™ smallpox vaccine with the US Government, 
which is expected to generate revenues of around $425m  
(c. £212m) over ten years. 
 T wo major new partnerships were also concluded 
during 2007 for the development and commercialisation of  
a novel Japanese encephalitis vaccine and a vaccine against  
the West Nile virus. These partnerships with Sanofi Pasteur, a 
leading global vaccine producer, validate the proprietary chimeric 
vaccine technology that Acambis has successfully developed.
 In addition to our late-stage clinical pipeline, we have 
successfully progressed earlier stage clinical programmes that 
we believe have high value potential. At the end of 2007, we 
received encouraging data with our universal influenza vaccine 
candidate from both a Phase 1 clinical study and a pre-clinical 
challenge study. With these results, we intend to explore 
partnering opportunities with global vaccine companies, in 
parallel with continuing our clinical development programme. 
We have also completed further formulation work on our 
ACAM-CDIFF™ vaccine, in order to initiate a clinical proof- 
of-concept trial later this year, and in February 2008 initiated 
pre-clinical testing of an HSV vaccine with a view to submitting 
an IND application in 2009.
 I believe that the extensive progress outlined above  
will unlock substantial value in the coming years.
 There will be a further Board change this year,  
with the retirement of Alan Dalby at the conclusion of the 
forthcoming AGM. Alan has served as a Director for ten years 
and was our Senior Independent Non-executive Director.  
I would like to thank him for his very valuable contribution  
and advice, particularly during the recent period of change 
within the Company.
 Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would also like  
to thank our shareholders for their strong support and our 
employees for all their efforts and commitment throughout  
the past year.
Our new management team  
has delivered a range of important 
advances. These will unlock 
substantial value in Acambis and 
underpin its future growth.
Dr Peter Fellner
Chairman
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
03
Section 1: Business review
Chairman’ s review
