 Unlocking the 
 value of Acambis
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
04
Section 1: Business review
Q&A with the CEO
Q&A with the CEO
Ian Garland joined Acambis in May 2007 following the 
restructuring and change of management announced  
earlier in the year.
1. What is your goal for Acambis?
Acambis has substantial potential and our job is to translate  
that potential into shareholder value. Our ACAM2000™ 
smallpox vaccine has generated significant revenues for 
Acambis and will continue to do so going forward but the 
greater potential, long term, is in our very valuable R&D pipeline. 
This suffered in the past from the focus on smallpox – as a 
result, milestones were missed and the R&D group pursued 
“interesting” programmes without sufficient commercial input. 
 We’ve laid out a clear plan of how we’ll maximise  
value for shareholders. It’ s not rocket science – it’ s about  
doing a few things well: delivering our pipeline programmes  
on time and on budget, building an efficient R&D engine, being 
commercially aware and exploiting our assets to help finance 
the business. 
 We have a management team with the right mix  
of vaccines, business, operational and financial experience to 
know how to execute on our strategy. T ake the example of 
ACAM-CDIFF™, one of our high-value vaccines: by using our 
experience to define a different approach, we can now deliver 
proof-of-concept data for this potentially major value driver 
within 12 to 18 months of starting the trial.
2. What will you do differently to ensure you deliver  
against your milestones?
This is about two things: planning and execution. For the first 
time, we’ve defined detailed clinical development plans for  
our programmes, drawing on internal and external experts, 
including our new Executive Vice President, R&D, Mike Watson. 
This helps us set realistic deadlines and hit them on time  
and on budget. It will also ensure we can prioritise effectively  
and apply our resources to the activities that will create the  
most value. 
3. You describe your ACAM-CDIFF™ vaccine as  
a potentially transformational product for Acambis.  
What makes this vaccine transformational? 
Three aspects: a rapidly growing developed world problem;  
a well-understood scientific approach; and an unrivalled 
competitive position. 
 We’ve all heard about it but did you realise that there 
are now almost ten times as many C. difficile infections in UK 
hospitals as there are MRSA cases? This is a massive and 
growing problem. In Europe and the US, C. difficile infections 
are now costing the healthcare systems more than $7bn a year. 
 Even our prudent estimates indicate this is a billion-
dollar vaccine market and, to the best of our knowledge,  
we have the only vaccine in clinical development. We’re also 
taking a well-trodden path using a toxoid approach that’ s been  
proven in tetanus, diphtheria and whooping cough vaccines. 
Our job now is to generate proof-of-concept data as quickly  
as possible.  Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
05
Section 1: Business review
Q&A with the CEO
Our goal for Acambis  
is to establish a robust, 
independent vaccines  
company with a portfolio  
of marketed and  
development-stage  
vaccines and a productive 
research engine.
Ian Garland
Chief Executive Officer
4. What is the value of your manufacturing assets?
We can try to place a monetary value on Canton and  
Rockville but that doesn’t really reflect the strategic value  
to us of that capability. 
 In financial terms, the book value of Canton and 
Rockville is £13.5m but if we wanted to build those facilities 
from scratch it would cost us many times that amount. 
 The strategic value of our manufacturing assets  
is considerable. They can deliver revenues from our 
ACAM2000™, ChimeriVax™-JE and ChimeriVax™-West  
Nile vaccines. They also have sufficient flexibility to enable  
us to manufacture material for other pipeline programmes.  
This can help us control our development timelines and 
presents a very attractive proposition for potential partners  
and future in-licensing deals. 
5. You’ve mentioned that in-licensing and, possibly,  
acquisitions are part of your strategy. Can Acambis 
compete with big pharma companies and their  
deep pockets? 
Late-stage assets – Phase 2 and beyond – are in huge  
demand from large pharmaceutical companies and we  
can’t hope to compete for attractive programmes in this  
area. We want to make these companies our customers  
so our focus for in-licensing lies with early-stage products  
and platforms that we can progress to create value. 
 We already have a track record in this area,  
most recently with ACAM-FLU-A™, which we brought  
in as an early-stage research programme and have  
successfully taken through Phase 1 clinical trials.  
We can create value by leveraging our expertise  
to progress programmes through clinical trials  
and then decide whether to lock in that value by  
partnering with the pharmaceutical companies  
or take the product further ourselves if that  
option creates more value for our shareholders.
