 STRATEGIC REPORT
COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
06
An encouraging  
performance
I am proud to say that 2013 
has been a momentous year, in 
which we successfully returned to 
the public market and delivered strong 
financial results driven by our core 
business and augmented by value 
creating acquisitions. 
In addition, the early stages of the market 
recovery evident in 2013 have also provided 
the platform for growth across our business. 
The recovery will also generate increased 
competition with new entrants to the market, 
but our management team remain focused 
on delivering optimal results and innovating to 
continue to ensure the business is dynamic 
and productive.
Over the past six years, the management 
team has worked together through a sustained 
period of difficulty in the property market, 
to transform Countrywide into a leaner and 
more efficient organisation with a greater 
proportion of sustainable revenue. The 
successful completion of the IPO in March 
was testament to the fact that investors 
recognised this transformation. Post IPO, 
the significantly reduced capital gearing 
provides a solid basis for further investment 
in strategic opportunities.
Government backed initiatives announced in 
Q1 2013 have supported the recovery in the 
housing market. The Help to Buy and Funding 
for Lending schemes have incentivised lenders 
to increase the availability of higher loan to 
value mortgages. These initiatives have 
contributed to the increase in the number of 
first time buyers and new build purchasers 
who are both seen as key drivers of the 
housing market recovery. 
Building a business in a rising market can 
often be as difficult as managing through 
a recession. Maintaining cost control discipline 
has to remain a focus as we seek to capitalise 
on volume growth. While we removed a 
significant amount of cost over the past six 
years, some of those costs have returned, 
for example commissions, but we recognise 
that headcount, together with marketing 
expenditure, will need to increase if we are to 
maintain service levels and protect and develop 
market share in a sustainably rising market.
We remain focused on executing our 
strategy for market leadership and profitable 
growth across each of our divisions, creating 
opportunities to provide more complementary 
service offerings across all target markets. This 
will be underpinned by continued investment in 
those areas that support scalable and efficient 
delivery of service to customers.
Having dealt with several years of professional 
indemnity claims and significant exceptional 
charges to the income statement, we are 
confident that we have passed the worst. As we 
anticipated, the number of claims received 
in 2013 fell significantly and average losses 
were in line with expectation. Therefore, 
barring any unexpected change in trends, 
we believe that amounts previously provided 
are sufficient to meet our liabilities.
Customers 
Our customers are at the heart of the services 
we provide and our focus on them ensures our 
products and services both meet and exceed 
their expectations. I am delighted to announce 
that we have retained key commercial contracts 
and entered into two significant corporate 
relationships. Additionally, for the fifth year in a 
row our customers have voted for us to win the 
coveted Gold prize for Best Large Chain – 
National Category, at the Estate & Letting Agent 
Awards (ESTAs). The ESTAs recognise and 
reward high standards of customer service 
and are unique in being the only awards in the 
industry to be based purely on the votes 
of vendors and buyers. Our own customer 
feedback surveys confirm that nine out of 
ten Hamptons International customers would 
use us again and nine out of ten of our 
conveyancing customers would recommend 
us to family and friends. However, we must 
not nor would we be complacent about 
our success. We are reinforcing this focus 
on  customer service being at the heart 
of our operations through our internal 
‘Hearts & Minds’ programme for Estate 
Agency employees. This programme 
is a peer to peer initiative and the themes 
for the programme include language, 
positive first responses and massive 
action for massive results.
Chief executive’s review
Employees
The dedication and hard work demonstrated 
by our employees is key to the success of 
Countrywide. Developing the current teams 
and future employees is central to our strategy 
for market leadership and profitable growth 
across each of our divisions. I am pleased to 
report that we have around 200 graduates, 
apprentices and trainees throughout our Estate 
Agency, Lettings, Surveying and Conveyancing 
divisions. As CEO I am always keen to hear how 
our employees feel about Countrywide. With 
that in mind we engaged an independent 
consultancy to run our first confidential 
employee engagement survey. The results 
have been analysed and my executive team 
will be focused on addressing the key themes 
from the feedback. 
IT transformation
We are now two thirds of the way through our 
IT transformation with a significant investment 
programme in new hardware and systems. 
We are working with our strategic partner, CGI, 
to complete the transformation and roll out in 
2014 giving the Group a robust infrastructure 
to recognise benefits from 2015 onwards.
Strategic investment
Growth continues with the acquisition of 28 
Lettings businesses in 2013 including Portfolio 
Lettings, Avon Lettings, Knights of Bath and  STRATEGIC REPORT
COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
07
The Group’s strategy
We aim to continue to help more people move home 
in the UK than any other business and will focus on 
growing profitable market share.
 Building on our physical and  
online distribution capability 
 in order to optimise market share and maximise profitability  
while ensuring that our cost base remains flexible
 Providing our customers with  
market-leading products and services 
 designed to meet their expectations and optimising  
profitability for the Group
 Recruiting, developing and retaining
 the most dynamic, talented and professional  
people in the industry
 Ensuring our people have access
 to a reliable, economic and scalable infrastructure enabling  
delivery of shared services to support all Group businesses
1
2
3
4
Read more about our  
strategy on p14
I am proud to say that 2013 has been a momentous 
year, in which we successfully returned to the public 
market and delivered strong financial results as a plc. 
Flats in Leeds. In addition, the acquisition of 
Lambert Smith Hampton (LSH) gives us a 
significant foothold in the commercial property 
market, driving more opportunities to our teams 
operating our core Land & New Homes, and 
Residential Development & Investment 
businesses as well as extending our 
relationship with key corporate partners. 
We are committed to a targeted acquisition 
programme and already in 2014 we have 
invested £15.1 million in 6 businesses, including 
Tucker Gardner Residential, Curtis and Bains 
and Preston Bennett Holdings. 
We are pleased to announce that we have 
also spent £7 million acquiring our first rental 
property investment. In comparison to other 
countries, investment by financial institutions in 
UK residential property has been relatively 
limited. With market conditions improving and 
the UK Government encouraging investment in 
residential property, that situation is changing. 
As the market leader in UK residential property 
services, we believe Countrywide is uniquely 
placed to play a major role in the growth of this 
developing sector through providing access to 
unparalleled market insight and a service 
platform to operate at scale across the UK. 
We are currently exploring options to partner 
with institutional investors or a fund manager 
to establish a large residential property 
investment vehicle with a target size of 
£1 billion invested over the next five years. 
We have committed £20 million of our own 
capital to the project to acquire a seed 
portfolio and a future pipeline of suitable, 
privately rented, residential assets.
Award winning performance
We have had another year of award winning 
performances with the Group and divisions 
winning 20 awards this year, which makes 
152 awards won since 2008. These fantastic 
achievements are testimony to the hard work 
and dedication of all our employees.
Grenville Turner
Chief executive officer
27 February 2014
