 INTRODUCTION
COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
02 02
Chairman’s statement
2013 has been a seminal year for 
Countrywide: the housing market 
recovery is underway, increasing 
business activity across the Group; 
the successful IPO in March and 
subsequent debt repayment; and 
£50.4 million has been invested in 
strategic acquisitions, strengthening 
our services and geographical 
footprint. I am therefore delighted 
to report a positive set of results 
for 2013. Total income increased by 
11% to £584.8 million and EBITDA 
increased by 37% to £86.6 million, 
which is reflected in adjusted 
earnings per share of 24.4 pence. 
On the basis of these results, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 6.0 pence 
(net) per share, giving a total 2013 dividend of 
8.0 pence (net) per share. Subject to approval 
at the AGM, to be held on 30 April 2014, 
the dividend will be paid on 7 May 2014 to 
shareholders on the register at 28 March 2014.
Capital structure
After an absence of six years, Countrywide was 
re-listed on the London Stock Exchange raising 
£220 million in new share capital. At the same 
time we secured a new £100 million banking 
facility with a syndicate of six banks. These 
funds were used to redeem the £250 million of 
10% fixed interest debt in May. No shares were 
sold at IPO by directors or our three sponsors, 
who retained their interests in the shares post 
floatation. Subsequently, Apollo and Alchemy 
divested their holdings in full. Oaktree sold 
9.3% of their 36.9% holding and remain as the 
largest single investor with a 27.6% holding, 
with management holding 4.3%, and the 
remaining 68.1% of shares being freely traded 
and held largely by an encouragingly broad 
range of long term institutional investors.
Net debt (excluding finance leases) at the year 
end was £37.7 million (2012: £203.2 million) 
and the Group had a further £25.0 million 
in undrawn facilities. 
In February 2014 we increased our banking 
facilities by £50 million and at the same time 
reduced the margin we pay. The additional 
funds will be used to invest in further strategic 
opportunities when appropriate.
Board update
As the Company moved towards IPO, Robert 
Davies, Sandra Turner and Neville Richardson 
were appointed as the initial independent 
non-executive directors. Cathy Turner 
and I were appointed shortly after the IPO 
to complement the Board composition and 
to achieve Code compliance. Unforeseen 
circumstances led to the early resignations 
of Robert Davies and Neville Richardson 
and the Board will be looking to make further 
appointments in the first half of 2014 to fill the 
vacancies this created. Following the disposal 
by Apollo-Affiliated Fund of part of their 
respective shareholdings in the Company, their 
aggregate shareholdings were reduced and to 
reflect the reduced size of their shareholding, 
Sanjay Patel, the director of the Company 
appointed by them stepped down with 
immediate effect in August 2013. In addition, 
CEO Grenville Turner has indicated his desire 
to step down as CEO during the course of 2014. 
A search for his successor, both from within 
and outside the Company, has therefore been 
initiated. Given his extensive and unparalleled 
experience in the sector, the Board has asked 
him to take over as non-executive Chairman 
and Grenville has agreed to do so once a new 
CEO is in place. I will then become Deputy 
Chairman and Senior Independent Director. 
The decision to appoint Grenville as Chairman 
has been discussed with a number of the 
Company’s major shareholders, as was the 
Board’s desire to maintain the continuity and 
success of the senior management team that 
has overseen Countrywide’s successful return 
to the public markets. The Board is continuing 
to make progress in appointing two new 
independent directors to return to full code 
compliance and further announcements will  
be made in due course.
Markets
As we noted in our January 2014 Trading 
Update, the recovery of the housing market 
is still at an early stage. The key to a lasting 
recovery is assisting first time buyers and 
the general housing market outside of 
London and the South East. We remain 
supportive of the Government’s policies 
to achieve this and are wary of London 
centric market commentators’ views that 
the whole UK housing market is overheated. 
As we comment elsewhere in this report, 
Help to Buy seems to be addressing the 
Delivering results, developing 
innovative products, and capitalising 
on our unique proposition
