 Annual Report 2015  Countrywide plc 05
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Chief executive’s review
Market 2015
It has been an uncertain year for the UK 
property market and all the stakeholders it 
impacts. Our sector has seen another year 
of record low interest rates, a housing market 
very short of supply and a step up in tax 
changes impacting both the higher priced 
home and second home markets negatively. 
Market data available for 2015 highlights 
the impact of changing dynamics in the 
residential property market, with transaction 
levels across the country running lower than 
the previous year. Market volumes for 2015 
are expected to be 3–4% below 2014 
and in the region of 970,000–980,000 
transactions at year end, which is still far short 
of a normalised run rate by historic standards. 
The negative trend in mortgage approvals at 
the end of 2014 impacted transaction levels 
in the first half of 2015 which, together with 
the potential uncertainty over the outcome 
of the general election in May, created 
sluggishness in market trends during the 
first half of 2015, as both buyers and 
sellers delayed decisions to move. Further, 
the anticipated bounce in the second half of 
the year following the outcome of the most 
uncertain general election in a generation 
failed to materialise as consumer confidence 
remained fragile. This manifested most acutely 
in a lack of stock as the number of properties 
coming to the market ran significantly below 
last year. That pressure on market volumes 
continued throughout 2015. 
While the aspiration towards home 
ownership remains a core part of the UK 
consumer landscape, the property market 
continues to evolve to reflect changing 
consumer priorities. This is particularly 
evident in the growth of the private rented 
housing market, where demand remains 
strong. Although throughout 2015, tenants 
also showed a lower propensity to move with 
average tenures extending to 17.1 months 
up from 15.5 months in 2012.
Our performance 
The challenging market in sales impacted 
our performance and this, coupled with 
the significant change agenda we’ve 
driven, resulted in a tough year for our 
Retail Sales division.
Our London sales business showed 
tremendous resilience though and, despite 
operating in the market which saw the most 
acute impact from changes to stamp duty, 
grew its market share and revenues.
Our Lettings business in London also grew 
whilst our decision to invest further for the 
future in core systems, people and service 
slowed, for now, the rate of growth in our 
Retail Lettings business across the rest of 
the UK. 
Encouragingly, we delivered exceptionally 
strong performance in both Financial Services 
and Surveying as they outperformed the 
markets. Another strong year in our Commercial 
business saw profits grow in both the core 
and acquired businesses. The balance of 
recurring revenues in that business reached 
70%, a pleasing achievement as we seek 
to limit volatility in both our residential and 
commercial revenue streams. 
2015 was a transformative year for the Group 
and set us on the right path to achieve our 
ambitious goals for 2020. Through our people, 
we set our Building our Future strategy 
and continued our successful acquisition 
programme, while providing resilience for 
the Group’s future through investment in 
transformation, people capability and risk 
management. We also focused on creating 
industry-leading capabilities in research and 
analytics to capitalise on the value of our 
unique data and insight into the market 
through our unparalleled national footprint. 
IN SUMMARY
• 
Fragile consumer confidence in the housing market 
• 
Focus on execution, regaining and growing market 
share and accelerating proposition improvements, 
including multichannel
• 
Growth in core lettings business, building on 
improvements in service
• 
Driving value from early progress in financial 
services, valuations and commercial 
Foundations in place for future 
resilience and growth
Our markets page 16 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 06
Strategic report
Chief executive’s review continued
Diversified business continues  
to provide resilience.
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
Our performance continued
2015 also saw us complete the most 
significant customer research programme 
Countrywide has ever undertaken, involving 
more than 3,000 customers across sales 
and lettings. The insight from that research 
coupled with our data has informed our new 
propositions and service offerings, which will 
be trialled across three of our brands in the 
second quarter of 2016. These propositions 
will reflect our customers’ desire to use multiple 
channels (online, telephone and branch 
network) and use enabling technology whilst 
accessing the experience and expertise that 
our UK-wide network of people bring. 
Core to delivery of our new multichannel 
propositions will be the development of our 
digital capabilities, organically and through 
investments and partnerships. 
To date in 2016, we have made investments 
in innovative proptech firms focused on 
improving customer experience. We are the 
lead strategic partner with Fixflo, the leading 
24/7 property repair reporting system, and 
have also taken a significant minority stake 
in an early stage start-up platform in the 
self-serve lettings market.
Hand in hand with investing to grow our 
business organically, our approach to 
acquisitions remains in line with our strategy. 
Our focus has been to strengthen our presence 
in strategic locations across the UK and we 
remain committed to delivery of our target 
hurdles and returns. In 2015, we acquired 
30 lettings businesses, including some key 
targets in Liverpool, York and Bristol. This 
focus on key cities will continue in 2016. 
2016 – year of execution
2016 is all about execution as we begin 
to realise the benefits of our strategy. 
Diversification of our business model will 
continue as we increase resilience across 
residential and commercial. Operating Retail 
as a single structure for core sales and lettings 
is building momentum with encouraging signs 
as we enter 2016 with a growing pipeline in 
sales, improving conversion rates and rising 
landlord retention. Our focus now is on 
capitalising on this fast start to 2016, ensuring 
we take advantage of early strong winds in 
the market.
We believe we are superbly placed to 
capitalise on a mortgage market that is shifting 
further toward an intermediary model, with 
expectations that more than 70% of the total 
mortgages written in 2016 will be brokered. 
Our 600+ field force of mortgage consultants 
are targeted to deliver record performance 
driven by improved lead management, better 
data utilisation and a new front-end operating 
system, which is being rolled out as we 
enter 2016. 
Our relationships with our main partners 
remain core to our strategy. The high street 
banks view us as the distributors for their 
mortgage products but also their partner in 
risk management through valuations. Equally 
key are developers and house builders and 
the creation of Countrywide Residential 
Development Solutions has given us a 
platform through which to grow in the new 
homes space. We expect to add capability 
here through acquisition as we seek to 
expand in this critical area. 
Outlook
We continue to be prudent in our assumptions 
for growth in the residential housing market 
in 2016 and our focus will be driving our 
own growth through regaining share and 
attracting new customers through better 
propositions. We remain of the view that 
the drivers of demand for the private rental 
sector remain strong and will drive further 
growth. The impact of the increased tax 
burden for buy-to-let landlords and second 
home owners has yet to play out in the market, 
but in a low interest rate environment, yields 
in the buy-to-let sector, particularly outside 
London, remain attractive. Enabling institutional 
investment to create high quality built-to-rent 
stock remains high on our agenda, and our 
residential investment fund, in partnership 
with Hermes Investment Management, goes 
from strength to strength with schemes in 
Manchester and Liverpool now exchanged 
and a second round of fundraising underway.
We are confident that our relentless focus on 
delivering our purpose of putting people and 
property together will yield strong progress 
in 2016 and there is no change to our current 
financial outlook for 2016. The market’ s volatility 
is unlikely to subside in 2016, so navigating 
external challenges while delivering a first 
class service for our customers will be crucial. 
Our ambition to be the most recommended 
company in the property sector is clear and 
embraced by all colleagues across the Group. 
We look forward to building on the early 
momentum evident at the beginning of 2016 
as we create a strong and thriving business 
delivering enduring returns for our shareholders, 
customers and colleagues alike.
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
25 February 2016
This strategic report was approved by the 
Board of directors on 25 February 2016 
and signed on its behalf by: Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Read more on pages 08 to 15 Strategic report
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 08
Building our Future
OUR PURPOSE
Bringing people and 
property together
We have a clear purpose, guided by our 
vision and supported by our values.
We embarked on our Building our Future strategy as we 
recognised that there was a real opportunity for us to become 
the first choice for customers and, that by being their first 
choice, we can take this business to a brilliant future and 
change the face of the sector.
Bringing 
people and 
property 
together
STRAIGHTFORWARD
RESPONSIBLE
PERSONAL
PASSIONATE
 OUR FOUNDATIONS
HOW WE RUN OUR BUSINESS
OUR CUSTOMERS
OUR PORTFOLIO
OUR PEOPLE
Bringing 
people and 
property 
together Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc 09
OUR VALUES
Personal
We are a people business. 
We care about our customers 
and each other. We have fun.
Straightforward
We keep it simple, dealing with 
the complicated things so our 
customers don’t have to.
Passionate
We love working with property 
and we work hard, knowing 
what we do really matters.
HOW WE RUN 
OUR BUSINESS
Four customer-centric business units, combining local brands 
with a national operating model to support customers through 
their end-to-end property journey. We are investing in core 
capabilities, including IT, talent management, risk management 
and data and analytics to ensure we have the foundations 
to be able to move at pace.
How we run our business page 14
OUR STRATEGY
Our intent is to increase our resilience to the sales cycle 
volatility and broaden the Group’s business to deliver a strong 
future and sustainable long term value for our shareholders.
Our strategy page 10
Responsible
We do the right thing. We listen, 
take time to understand and 
always tell the truth.
OUR VISION
Recommended
more than any other company 
in the property sector.
1
Recognised
as one of the best places to work 
in the UK.
2
Transforming
the reputation of our industry.
3
Celebrated
for excellent sustainable 
financial performance.
4
