 OVERVIEW
02 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Our broad geographical 
reach and diversified 
operations enabled us 
to deliver income growth 
across all divisions.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
In my first term as chairman of the Group 
I am pleased to report record financial results 
from Countrywide plc in 2014 against the 
background of a sluggish UK housing market 
which emerged during the second half of 2014. 
Income grew by 20% to £702.2 million and 
adjusted EBITDA increased by 40% to reach 
£121.1 million. 
2014 was definitely a year of two halves: the 
first six months saw the UK housing market 
grow strongly compared to 2013, but demand 
declined in the second half primarily at the 
top end of the London market. However, 
the strategic acquisitions and developments 
we have made over the past six years, 
underpinning our broad geographical reach 
and diversified operations, enabled us to 
deliver income growth across all divisions.
Strategic investment continued throughout 
2014: we acquired 38 businesses at a cost 
of £48.9 million and invested £13.3 million 
of seed capital in a residential property fund 
aimed at the Private Rental Sector (PRS), 
which we have launched in conjunction 
with Hermes Investment Management, one 
of the UK’s leading property fund managers. 
Our fledgling investment in Zoopla Property 
Group from 2010 reaped rewards for our 
shareholders, by way of a subsequent return 
of cash when the Company floated on the 
London Stock Exchange in June 2014. 
Following partial disposal of our shareholding 
for proceeds of £20 million, which was returned 
to shareholders via a 9.0 pence per share 
special dividend, our residual investment 
was worth £33.2 million at the year end.
Return of capital and dividend policy
In July 2014 we announced that our ordinary 
dividend policy would target a return of 35% 
to 45% of the annual reported Group profits 
after tax but before amortisation. In addition, 
we declared that, in the absence of a major 
acquisition and assuming continued recovery 
in the residential housing market, the Board 
anticipated that starting in 2015 the combined 
value of the ordinary dividend and any 
supplemental return of cash would be between 
60% and 70% of reported Group profits after 
tax but before any amortisation, which would 
be further augmented by the realisation of 
value from our remaining Zoopla shareholding. 
Our stated intention was that supplemental 
return of cash would be by way of a special 
dividend or a share repurchase programme 
depending on prevailing market conditions 
and views of our shareholders. Accordingly, 
we returned the £20 million proceeds from 
the partial disposal of our Zoopla shareholding 
by paying a special dividend of 9.0 pence 
per share in September 2014 and then 
accelerated our capital return policy by 
commencing a share buyback programme 
in October 2014, purchasing 2.9 million 
shares at a cost of £13.3 million before 
the year end.
The Board announces an extension to the 
existing share repurchase programme with 
plans to spend up to an additional £20 million, 
subject to market conditions.
On the basis of our strong results, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share, giving a total 2014 dividend, 
including the special dividend, of 24.0 pence 
per share (2013: 8.0 pence per share). 
Subject to approval at the AGM to be held 
on 29 April 2015 the dividend will be paid 
on 7 May 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at 27 March 2015.
In summary
2014 has been a record year 
for Countrywide: 
• 
Strategic investment continued 
throughout 2014: acquiring 
38 businesses at a cost of 
£48.9 million and investing 
£13.3 million of seed capital 
in a residential property fund
• 
Total income increased by 
20% to £702.2 million and 
EBITDA increased by 40% 
to £121.1 million, reflected 
in an adjusted basic earnings  
per share of 36.7 pence
For more analysis on markets 
see page 10
Chairman’s statement ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 03
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
...the Group is fostering an 
environment of innovation 
and progress...
Professional indemnity provision
In 2012, the Group established an exceptional 
provision to cover the estimated cost of claims 
arising in our Surveying and Valuation division 
relating to surveys carried out in the years 
2004 to 2007. The second half of 2014 was 
always seen as a key period in assessing this 
issue as the six year primary statutory limitation 
period came to an end. It is disappointing 
to see that high levels of claims continue 
to be an issue across the industry.
We have performed a detailed review of the 
latest data and trends on professional indemnity 
and, consequently believe it is prudent to 
increase our provision which has resulted in 
an exceptional charge in the 2014 financial 
results of £15.2 million, consistent with the 
expected charge noted in our trading update 
on 22 January 2015. The principal reason 
behind this charge is an unexpected level 
of claims brought about under common law, 
outside of the primary statutory limitation 
period rather than under contract law, together 
with a slight deterioration of claims previously 
notified and an increase in the average loss 
per claim.
Board update 
I was delighted to welcome Alison Platt 
as chief executive officer from 1 September 
2014, at which point I assumed the role of 
non-executive chairman, ensuring continuity, 
and David Watson became deputy chairman 
and senior independent director. Alison brings 
a wealth of experience and renewed energy 
to the Board.
During 2014 we also welcomed Jane Lighting, 
Richard Adam and Rupert Gavin as independent 
non-executive directors, with Richard taking 
the role of chairman of the Audit and Risk 
Committee. We also accepted the resignation 
of Sandra Turner who we thank for her support 
to the Board during our first year as a listed 
company. The process of refreshing the Board 
allowed for further evaluation of the balance 
of skills, experience, capabilities and diversity 
within our new appointments, ensuring that 
the Board has the complementary cumulative 
experience to provide effective leadership 
and strategic direction to the Group. 
Corporate governance
One of the Board’s responsibilities is ensuring 
that the Group applies good corporate 
governance to facilitate effective management 
of the Company. As the Company’s chairman 
I am pleased to note that the Group is fostering 
an environment of innovation and progress 
in a framework of strong governance and 
risk management. A detailed statement on 
corporate governance can be found in the 
Chairman’s governance introduction and 
the corporate governance statement.
Outlook
As noted in our January 2015 Trading Update, 
the slowdown in residential property market 
growth in the second half of the year, recent 
negative trends in mortgage approvals and 
potential uncertainty regarding the general 
election in May are likely to create some 
sluggishness in market trends over the first 
half of 2015. However, the resilience we 
derive from our broad-based business, our 
low leverage and our proven ability to deliver 
growth in a challenging market position us 
well to take advantage of sustainable growth 
in our Lettings and Commercial businesses 
and capitalise quickly on the upturn as the 
residential sales market recovers in the 
medium to long term. Notwithstanding the 
market challenges evident going into 2015, 
I am confident the Group is in a strong 
position to meet the Board’s expectations.
Our success this year would not have been 
possible without the passion and commitment 
of our outstanding employees. On behalf of 
the Board, I would like to thank everyone across 
the Group for their contribution in making 
this a record breaking year for Countrywide.
Grenville Turner
Chairman
26 February 2015
For more details on our Board 
see pages 42 to 43
