 08 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
2014 proved to be a progressive and 
successful year for Countrywide plc, marking 
our first full year as a public company and 
continuing our track record of delivering 
strong financial results.
As the chairman has already mentioned, the 
market for house sales during 2014 can be 
split into two distinct halves: a strong first half 
continued the recovery started in late 2013, 
indicating that total market volumes were on 
a trajectory back towards pre-2008 levels; 
a challenging latter half of 2014 highlighted 
the sensitivity of consumers to changes in 
the lending environment, concern about 
interest rate rises and uncertainty in fiscal 
changes impacting the cost of house moves.
The slowdown in house sales transactions 
was particularly acute in central London as 
the impact of consistently escalating prices 
over the last few years began to rebalance 
to a more sustainable level. By contrast to 
housing sales, 2014 was another strong 
year for the residential lettings market.
The breadth of our business, built over the 
last few years, has paid significant dividends 
despite a market that has housing transactions 
below the long term average. The continued 
strong growth in our private residential lettings 
business coupled with our wide geographic 
base has enabled us to deliver not only strong 
revenue growth but another year of margin 
improvement. The fact that circa 40% of our 
profit is now generated from non-cyclical 
activities which are not directly related to 
the residential transactions market is a strong 
endorsement of the progress made in our 
strategy to diversify revenues, and we believe 
there is significant scope to grow these 
non-cyclical businesses further. 
Investment in broadening the business 
continued in 2014 and saw significant 
investment in the residential lettings business, 
as well as Lambert Smith Hampton’s 
acquisition of BTW Shiells in Northern Ireland. 
The continued programme of growth in the 
Lettings business, which now accounts for 
circa 19% of total revenues, has enabled 
us to build a robust model for integrating 
acquired businesses, whilst generating strong 
recurring revenues. Our ability to achieve 
consistently improved margins through the 
adoption of improved back office processes 
has been particularly pleasing this year and 
further validates our business model.
During 2014 we continued to focus on 
finding innovative ways to combine our core 
capabilities and bring new propositions to 
the market. The best example of this was our 
residential property fund in partnership with 
Hermes Investment Management (‘Hermes’), 
one of the UK’ s leading property fund managers 
which from a standing start already has around 
£14 million of assets under management. 
The fund is focused on owning and managing 
residential properties across the country for 
the UK’s growing private rented sector and 
sees us combining Hermes’ ability to bring 
capital with our expertise in utilising our 
data and property management capability. 
The evolving market
The aspiration towards home ownership 
remains a core part of the UK consumer 
landscape, and the market is evolving 
to reflect the changing priorities of the 
generations. 2014 was another strong year 
for first time buyers entering the market, 
although the average age of those buyers 
crossed the 30 year old barrier for the first 
time. This dynamic is also evident in the 
growth of the private rented housing market 
in the UK. While the growth of the private 
rented sector has slowed in recent years, 
a product of better access to finance, it still 
seems likely that 100,000 more people (net) 
will become tenants in 2015. This rate 
of growth will continue to place upward 
pressure on rents for the foreseeable future. 
It is important to recognise that for many 
people, renting is now a choice, rather than 
a necessity, with a much improved selection 
of product available to them, together 
with the flexibility that renting offers over 
home ownership. 
Chief executive’s review
During 2014 we continued to focus 
on finding innovative ways to combine 
our core capabilities and bring new 
propositions to the market.
Alison Platt
Group chief executive officer
Access to credit also remains a key driver 
and the introduction of the Mortgage Market 
Review in April 2014 undoubtedly slowed 
demand in the housing sales market. Whilst 
the changes placed significant demand on 
the market, requiring considerable changes 
to the way a customer accesses mortgage 
credit, we welcome the change. We believe 
the underlying robustness of stress testing 
affordability and evidencing with customers, 
which supports the selection of the most 
appropriate choice of product and lender 
for them, underpins a strong and more 
secure future for the housing market going 
forward. Every one of our 600 plus mortgage 
consultants is trained and fully qualified 
to the FCA’s required standard and our 
commitment to a robust quality and compliance 
framework remains resolute.
Consumers remained sensitive to wider 
economic conditions in 2014 and sensitivity 
to potential rate rises coupled with worries 
about fiscal changes, was a feature of slowing 
demand in the second half. The changes to 
Stamp Duty and Land Tax in both Scotland, 
and then latterly England and Wales impacted 
sales more acutely at the high end of the 
market where the impact was punitive – slowing 
sales in London being a particular outcome.
Our customers
Our emphasis on best in class service provision, 
sector expertise and efforts on behalf of our 
customers as well as our approach to investing 
in our employees, were recognised again 
in 2014 with our external awards reaching 
record levels. We received the following 
awards during the period:
• 
 Lettings Agency of the Year – 
Countrywide (RESI Awards 2014); 
• 
 Best Large Chain (ESTAS 2014: Estate 
Agent Awards and Letting Agent Awards);
• 
 Large Lettings Agency of the Year 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014);
• 
 Property Management Company of the Year 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014);
• 
 Employer of the Year – Countrywide 
(The Negotiator Awards 2014); ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 09
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
  Channels to market
To optimise market share and maximise 
profitability while ensuring that our cost 
base remains flexible
• 
 National Estate Agency of the Year Gold 
Award (The Sunday Times Award 2014); and
• 
 Best Surveyor/Valuer – Panel Managers 
(Mortgage Strategy Awards 2014).
Our people
2014 was another strong year for the 
performance of Countrywide’s people. 
We invested in the creation of 1,400 jobs 
across our network and placed increased 
emphasis on bringing in young people 
starting their careers in the property sector. 
In our professional services businesses, 
we continued our commitment to training 
92 new surveyors, with ages ranging from 
24 to 55, who achieved a 93% qualification 
rate. Our conveyancing business took 34 
graduates into its academy who are due to 
take their assessments during 2015. The 
success of our Hamptons Academy proved 
the value of creating fast track careers for 
school leavers and graduates and we will 
seek to widen these initiatives across the 
network in coming years.
External partners
Throughout the year we remained focused on 
building strong relationships with our partners 
in the interests of our mutual customers. 
We remained resolutely focused on working 
with the leading banks and financial services 
brands in the UK to bring improved products 
and services to the market. 2014 marked a 
milestone, with HSBC choosing Countrywide 
as its first ever intermediary partner for 
mortgage distribution in the UK – further 
underlining the importance of our ability to offer 
ready access to skilled and qualified advisors.
On behalf of Britain’s top mortgage lenders, 
our 400 strong professional surveying team 
delivered over 300,000 valuations on homes 
across the UK, representing a substantial 
percentage of all valuations undertaken in 
the UK and our life and general insurance 
business, in partnership with AXA and 
Friends Life delivered insurance products 
to in excess of 150,000 customers for 
their personal protection needs.
Strategic opportunities
Throughout the year we have built on 
Countrywide’s position as the clear market 
leader in all of its core UK businesses and 
been successful in delivering the strategy 
set out at the time of the Company’s IPO. 
Of particular note is the significant progress 
we have made diversifying our revenue 
streams into more property activities that 
are independent of the housing transaction 
cycle and this trend remains a key tenet of 
our vision of how the business will continue 
to grow. Countrywide is already a highly 
integrated player, but there is a clear opportunity 
to expand further by fully leveraging the 
expertise and customer base of our substantial 
network of regional offices to offer our 
customers multiple services. 
We will also continue to grow our lettings 
business, both through property management 
and by increasing our investment in the 
private rented sector. I believe that these 
activities, together with the escalation of our 
commercial real estate activities, where there 
are also many opportunities to grow recurring 
revenue streams, position us well to achieve 
our aim of building a business that can 
perform well and deliver robust shareholder 
returns throughout the market cycle.
As well as delivering strong growth in a 
challenging market, we have launched the 
‘Building Our Future’ programme which is 
aimed at defining our ambitions for the future 
and establishing the ways in which we can 
become the stand out player in all of the 
markets and sectors in which we operate.
I look forward to leading the Group through 
the next chapter of growth for the benefit of 
our customers, employees and shareholders.
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
26 February 2015
The Group’s strategy
1
2
3
4
  Our products and services
Designed to meet their expectations and 
optimising profitability for the Group
  Our people
The most dynamic, talented and 
professional people in the industry
  Our infrastructure
A reliable, economic and scalable 
infrastructure enabling delivery of shared 
services to support all Group businesses
Read more about our strategy 
see pages 16 to 17
We aim to help more people move 
home in the UK than any other 
business and will focus on growing 
profitable market share.
Strategic report
08 Chief executive’s review
10 Our markets
12 Our business model
14 What sets us apart?
16 Strategy
18  Risk and risk management
20 Segmental review:
 20 Estate Agency
 22 London & Premier
 24 Lettings
 26 Financial Services
 28 Surveying Services
 30 Conveyancing Services
 32 Lambert Smith Hampton
34 Group financial review
38 Corporate responsibility
This strategic report was approved by the 
Board of directors on 26 February 2015  
and signed on its behalf by:
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
