 Daily Internet Plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2015 9
chief executive officer’s report
Introduction
I am pleased to provide my first report since taking on the role of Chief Executive from December 2014, having formerly 
been a Non-Executive member of the Board.
I became Chief Executive following the acquisition by the Group of Q4Ex Ltd, a cloud company which I had founded 
with two other partners. At this time and following a period of transition, Abby Hardoon the former CEO and founder of 
the Group moved to a Non-Executive role to allow for an evolvement in direction and to allow Abby to reduce his time 
commitment to the business.
The change in direction is one of concentrating our efforts on the Managed Hosting segment and a re-aligning of our cost 
base in support of this.
I am pleased to report a year of significant improvement in both operational and financial performance. Our revenues 
increased 66.9% to £3,891k from £2,331k a year earlier and we have today reported our maiden adjusted EBITDA profit of 
£411k versus an EBITDA loss of £45k a year earlier. As a result of this performance our statutory loss after taxation reduced 
from £676k in 2014 to £84k a reduction of 87.7%.
Operational Review
Daily Internet Plc was founded as a provider of SME hosting solutions to the mass market. Our SME Hosting segment has 
performed well in the year increasing revenues by 23.2% to £2,039k from £1,655k a year earlier. This was largely due to 
the contribution of the Evohosting acquisition. Underlying revenue remained at levels consistent with last year although as a 
result of the continuing re-organisation profitability was vastly improved.
The Group entered the Managed Hosting market in late October 2013 through the acquisition of Netplan Internet Solutions 
Limited. For the financial period under review, our Managed Hosting segment delivered revenues of £1,852k, up from a 
contribution of £676k for part of the year.
The Managed Hosting segment is the main focus of the Group as we see the largest current and future potential revenue 
opportunities arising in this area. Managed Hosting includes a range of Cloud offerings including design, implementation, 
control and managing environments and solutions for our customers. 
The market is currently seeing a number of trends develop, all of which indicate that the shift to Cloud delivered solutions 
will remain key future focus points for our customers.
One particular trend we are seeing is an increasing adoption of the Public Cloud. There is a developing level of acceptance 
and sufficient confidence in Public Cloud that we have been able to add into the product mix when proposing a new 
solution to a customer, particularly concerning business continuity. Previously we would replicate a Private Cloud across 
two Datacentres, but are increasingly replicating data to a Netplan designed continuity solution with Amazon Web Services 
(AWS). The “pay as you use” elements of Public Cloud are bringing into reach solutions that were previously cost prohibitive 
for some customers. This is helping us bring a greater breadth and depth of service, increasing revenues but all the time 
protecting or growing our overall gross margin.
strategic report Daily Internet Plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2015 10
The vast and growing array of methods of delivering a solution are making decisions more complex for IT departments, 
who do not have the market knowledge, skills and infrastructure and so seek the expert advice of a partner such as 
Netplan. It is certainly the case that our larger customers are placing an increasing amount of business with us due to 
the increasing complexities in the overall solution. We believe this will help maintain our low levels of client churn in this 
segment moving forward.
One key attraction of some customers to Netplan is our PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards) 
capabilities and offerings. PCI DSS applies to all entities involved in payment card processing—including merchants, 
processors, financial institutions and service providers, as well as all other entities that store, process or transmit 
cardholder data and/or sensitive authentication data.
Netplan is a certified PCI DSS Level 1 Service provider and has a dedicated PCI team. This has assisted in attracting 
business from payment processing business to insurance companies who wish to outsource their PCI environment and 
elements of their compliancy process.
Acquisitions
During the year we acquired Evohosting Ltd and Q4Ex Ltd. Both acquisitions have performed better than expected and 
have now been fully integrated into the Group. We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that must fit our stringent 
acquisition criteria.
Evohosting added CPanel specific hosting capacity to our SME Hosting segment. CPanel are the market leaders in SME 
shared hosting control panels. Evohosting continues to grow under our ownership.
Q4Ex, a Cloud hosting provider, brought key specialist personnel to the Group in the form of a strong management team 
and access to a vertical market which complimented Netplan. It now trades under the Netplan umbrella and is making 
substantial progress as the ‘Merchant and Distribution’ division of Netplan. This division was identified as being a vertical 
market, “ripe for change”, especially given the bulk of potential clients still utilise Windows Server 2003. Microsoft are 
withdrawing support and updates as the product reaches the end of life span on 14 July 2015.
Current Trading and Outlook
Trading post the financial year end has been in line with management and market expectations.
Our pipeline of opportunities continues to grow and we are well placed to take advantage of the continued move to the 
cloud. We will continue to invest over the next 12 months in our network infrastructure, automated systems and internal 
processes and drive further operational efficiencies with the integration of staff and systems across our business units and 
offices.
I look forward to the year ahead with confidence.
Chris Evans
Chief Executive Officer
19 June 2015
