 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Transformational sale
In November 2014 we agreed to sell the 
assets of our Dairies operations to Muller 
UK & Ireland Group LLP (‘Müller’) for a 
cash consideration of £80 million. The 
sale has been overwhelmingly approved 
by shareholders but remains conditional 
on the approval of the Competition and 
Markets Authority. It is pleasing that we 
have received support for the sale from the 
independent organisation that represents 
our farmers, Dairy Crest Direct, and the 
wider farming community.
 Combining our Dairies business with 
that of Müller will build on the progress 
that Dairy Crest has already achieved, 
strengthen the wider UK dairy sector and 
allow Dairy Crest to focus on growing our 
successful cheese and spreads operations.
 The financial results for the year ended 
31 March 2015, delivered in a particularly 
challenging environment, highlight the 
differing financial performance of the 
business we are selling and those that we 
will retain and which will be at the heart of 
Dairy Crest in the future. 
 We have continued to make good 
progress with projects that enhance the 
future prospects of these businesses, 
including consolidating butter and spreads 
production onto one site and investing 
in demineralised whey and galacto-
oligosaccharide – innovative products that 
will expand our product range and give us 
access to new sales channels in growing 
global markets.
Living by our Vision and Values
Dairy Crest has robust values and a 
clear vision. The Board recognises 
its responsibilities to the farmers who 
supply us with milk, our employees 
and franchisees, our pensioners, the 
communities in which we operate and 
our shareholders. We use the framework 
that our well established Vision and 
Values provide to balance the different 
interests of these groups.
Anthony Fry
Whilst I was very pleased to take up the 
role of Chairman in September 2014, I did 
so with mixed feelings. I was delighted 
to have the opportunity to be able to 
contribute further to the future of Dairy 
Crest but saddened by the departure due 
to illness of my predecessor, Anthony Fry, 
who left the Board at that time. Anthony 
had a significant influence on the business 
in his seven years as a Non-executive 
director and especially for the four years 
he served as Chairman. I would like to 
thank Anthony on behalf of the Board 
for his considerable contribution to the 
development of Dairy Crest and to wish 
him well with his recovery. 
 I would also like to thank Richard 
Macdonald who was Acting Chairman 
while Anthony was away from the business 
and has now resumed his role as Senior 
Independent Director.
It is very important that the Company 
has not let the tough trading environment 
and the transformational activities that we 
have undertaken in the year deflect us 
from our commitment to act responsibly. 
This has been reflected in our continuing 
strong performance in the Business in 
the Community Index where we have 
maintained our position as their highest 
ranked business in the UK and further 
improved our score.
Board changes
In addition to the departure of Anthony 
Fry, to which I refer above, Martyn Wilks, 
Executive Managing Director, left Dairy 
Crest on 31 March 2015 to pursue other 
interests. Martyn was on the Board for 
seven years and played a key role in 
building our brands. He left Dairy Crest 
with our best wishes for the future. Martyn 
has not been replaced on the Board at 
this time. 
Increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 15.7 pence per share, making 
a full year dividend of 21.7 pence per 
share, up 1.9% from last year. This 
dividend is covered 1.8 times by adjusted 
basic earnings per share, compared to 
1.9 times last year. Looking ahead, we 
propose to maintain our progressive 
dividend policy with a target cover range 
of 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Summary
The conditional sale of our Dairies 
operations will transform Dairy Crest and 
leave a predominantly branded business 
that has delivered strong financial results 
in the year. The business will benefit 
from greater focus on sectors where it is 
already strong and where it has significant 
growth potential.
Stephen Alexander Chairman
20 May 2015
Total Product group profits of Cheese and 
Spreads businesses up 19% year on year. 
Sale of Dairies operations approved by 
shareholders; regulatory approval progressing 
to plan.
Cathedral City brand continues to grow 
strongly – now Britain’s 16th largest grocery 
brand, accounting for over 50% of total 
branded retail cheddar sales.
On track to start production of demineralised 
whey powder and galacto-oligosaccharide for 
growing global markets this year. 
Strong Corporate Responsibility commitment 
maintained – top ranked UK business by 
Business in the Community for second 
consecutive year. 
Proposed final dividend payment of 15.7p 
taking full year to 21.7p, up 1.9%.
Highlights
