 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 09
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
Across the Group we delivered on new initiatives to 
improve our multi-channel proposition which led to 
market share gains in France and the Netherlands.
The ‘4Ds’
1 Drive trading
In a market that saw a small decline in 
France over the year we delivered further 
market share gains, kept footfall stable 
and improved our store conversion rate. 
During the period Darty held a number of 
events to drive trading. A successful 
World Cup campaign helped deliver 
strong vision sales during May and June 
and the July Sale received a positive 
response from customers. The ‘Back to 
school’ campaign run from late August 
through September, delivered sales below 
expectation due to limited stock and the 
January Sale was impacted by events in 
Paris at the beginning of the month. We 
supported these campaigns by weekly 
monitoring of our instore and online 
prices to confirm our competitiveness.  
On a ‘service included’ basis we continue 
to compare very favourably against all 
store based retailers and all web pure 
players and we have recovered our 
number one position in the TNS Sofres 
survey. In addition, during the year we 
celebrated 40 years of ‘Contrat du 
Confiance’, our price, choice and service 
promise to our customers, and we took 
the opportunity to simplify and modernise 
the Contrat providing us with a unique 
marketing platform.
As part of the Darty service offer, 
delivery, installation and after-sales 
service have historically been included  
for free with the majority of product 
purchases. A premium ‘paid for’ delivery 
is now available for specific two hour time 
slots from 7am to 9am, and 5pm to 9pm 
and ‘Chronopost’ next day delivery if 
ordered by 1pm for non-bulky items.  
In March we enhanced the service offer 
with ‘paid for’ same day delivery for large 
appliances in the Paris and Lyon regions, 
if ordered before 4pm and delivered by 
9pm, and in Paris same day after-sales 
service intervention if contacted by 4pm. 
As a result we have regained the leading 
position in home delivery and extended 
our lead against all our competitors for 
after-sales service (source: TNS survey).
After the end of the financial year we 
launched a new Store card, ‘Carte de 
credit connectée’, with the objective  
of providing customers with greater  
value beyond purely a financing  
solution. For a ¤15 annual fee, which  
is subsequently refunded in Darty 
vouchers, customers receive a Visa  
debit/credit card which is also a loyalty 
card. Every time a customer uses the card 
to complete three transactions worth  
over ¤50 each at Darty they will be given 
a ¤10 gift card. Additional benefits include 
free subscription to ‘Le Bouton’, our  
new 24/7 after-sales service initiative 
launched last year, special offers on 
products, VIP shopping evenings and 
access to flexible financing offers and  
free credit.
2 Digitalise Darty
As a successful multi-channel retailer,  
we continue to develop a seamless 
approach between our websites and 
stores. During the period we continued 
the programme of digitalising the  
store network which includes free WiFi, 
equipping sales staff with tablets to 
demonstrate products and provide price 
and availability and large display screens. 
By the end of the financial year we had 
digitalised 64 stores including two 
franchises, with over 1200 tablets being 
utilised by staff, and we had over 340 
screens across 30 stores. Throughout  
the year we saw an improvement in the 
level of sales made utilising a tablet to  
14 per cent of store sales, with the  
best stores approaching 40 per cent.  
We plan to digitalise a further 60 stores 
during 2015/16.
Visits to Darty.com grew over 22 per cent 
for the year to over 160 million and 
towards the end of the period the website 
was refreshed to improve its look, feel  
and content, making it more modern, 
clear and user friendly.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive 10 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Online growth
We have successfully grown our online business with a 22 per cent  
increase in web generated sales. The acquisition last year of 
Mistergooddeal.com is enabling us to offer a wider choice of  
price-entry products, attracting a more diverse customer base.
We have integrated the business into Darty, utilising our 
infrastructure and creating greater cost efficiencies.
“ This year in France we  
achieved a 22 per cent  
uplift in web generated  
sales bringing web  
penetration to over  
17 per cent of total  
products sales.” Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 11
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
 During the year we saw significant 
increases in penetration of our ‘Click and 
collect’ service, where customers can 
reserve online and collect an hour later 
from their chosen store, or from a Click 
and collect locker in certain high traffic 
stores. Penetration of Click and collect 
increased by 540 basis points to 20 per 
cent of web sales, with penetration 
reaching 30 per cent in the peak trading 
month of December compared to just 
over 20 per cent the prior year.
3 Develop our brand
Building on Darty’s long heritage for 
service and its famous ‘Contrat de 
Confiance’, a new initiative, ‘Le Bouton’, 
was launched nationwide in October.  
By pushing a dedicated wireless ‘button’ 
or via a mobile app, customers can make 
direct contact with Darty’s market leading 
after-sales service support, 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week. We aim for a 
service assistant to call the customer 
back within two minutes to assess  
and solve the problem either over the 
phone or by a subsequent home visit.  
The service is available for all electrical 
products but for those not originally 
bought from Darty or out of warranty 
there is a charge for any repairs required. 
The service is available for a small 
monthly subscription of ¤3/month, or  
¤8/month including multimedia products, 
plus ¤25 for the wireless button. Over 
35,000 buttons had been issued by the 
end of the year, including six, 12 or 24 
month subscription bundled with an 
extended warranty purchase. Our 
intention is to fully integrate the button 
into the extended warranty offer. 
As market leader in France we  
continue to receive support from  
leading manufacturers in gaining access 
to exclusive products, with particular 
emphasis on being ‘first to market’ for 
new products. During the period this was 
evidenced by significant sales of large 
screen OLED and Ultra HD/4K televisions, 
particularly ahead of the football World 
Cup in May and June. Increasingly 
connected products and dedicated areas 
in-store and online are being introduced 
into the offer for both the home and 
health, such as connected security, 
lighting, thermostats and fitness trackers.
As recognition for the recent progress  
we have made with the brand, our net 
promoter score increased over the second 
half of the year. We also won a number  
of awards during the year including one 
from LSA for our ‘Click & Collect’ service, 
the ‘Nuit des Rois’ digital marketing award 
for ‘Le Bouton’ and the ‘IREF Satisfactions 
Clients’ award for the electricals sector. 
In addition, we have seen improving 
colleague engagement through our 
annual staff opinion survey.
20 
PER CENT
penetration of Click and collect 
increased to 20 per cent of  
total web sales. 12 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Improved customer offer
We continually improve our offer to build customer loyalty and increase web 
and store traffic to keep one step ahead of the competition with a seamless 
approach between our websites and stores.
 
We are a true multi-channel retailer. Our customers can research for a product 
online or in our stores; buy online, in-store or by phone; and then obtain their 
product via either home delivery, collect from our stores or collection points  
or takeaway from our stores on purchase.
“ Over the last year in  
France we have recorded  
73 million visits to our  
stores and over 165 million  
visits to our websites.  
Customer information  
is gathered to provide  
a database for more  
specific and tailored  
marketing purposes.” Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 13
We are focused on building on our achievements  
to date by investing in our customer proposition, 
reducing the cost base and delivering improved 
profitability through our growth initiatives.
4 Deliver cost efficiency
Throughout the Group, we had targeted 
annual gross cost savings over three 
years of ¤50 million per annum by 
2015/16, from delivering a more efficient 
operating model, continuing to adapt our 
cost structure and leveraging synergies 
between our operating companies. To 
accelerate the achievement of the savings 
by 2014/15, a social plan was implemented 
in France last year and proceeded as 
planned. ¤30 million of benefits were 
achieved over the prior two years with the 
final benefit of ¤20 million achieved in full 
this financial year. Total Group underlying 
costs (excluding the Mistergooddeal.com 
acquisition) were down over 2 per cent 
(¤27 million) despite incremental costs 
related to our increased store activity. 
While this major programme has now 
been completed, we continue to work  
on all opportunities to improve cost 
efficiency in the business, with a 
particular focus in France in 2015/16 on 
the after-sales service infrastructure and 
increasing ‘Click and collect’ penetration 
to further reduce home delivery costs.
We also continue to manage our freehold 
property to ensure maximum value to the 
Group. Following over ¤45 million of total 
proceeds in the prior two years, ¤13.9 million 
was delivered this financial year, with a 
similar amount expected in 2015/16.
Growth initiatives 
In 2013 we identified and introduced 
initiatives to help secure our future 
growth, including:
• 
expanding the Darty portfolio into 
smaller catchment areas with the 
opening of franchise stores;
• 
extending our low price/pay-as-you-go 
services offer through the 
Mistergooddeal.com channel; and
• 
a programme to increase the number of 
stores in France with the kitchen offer.
Franchise stores
Darty is the market leader in France  
with 70 per cent of consumers within  
a 30-minute drive time of a store.  
The remaining 30 per cent of consumers 
represent an opportunity to further 
exploit the existing infrastructure of  
our multi-channel offer. Typically  
these consumers will reside in smaller 
catchment areas, usually below 100,000 
inhabitants where it is uneconomic to 
open a typical Darty store. To address 
these smaller catchment areas we 
established a franchise operation  
last financial year.
The independent owner invests to 
refurbish their own store to a Darty  
store, consistent in terms of both 
branding and offer with the rest of  
the store portfolio. We charge the 
franchisee for the supply of product 
ranges and provision of home delivery 
and after-sales services. A franchise  
fee is also charged for use of the brand  
and marketing support.
At the end of the financial year we  
had opened 43 stores including four 
overseas. Performance has been 
encouraging with significant sales uplifts 
and a net promoter score above the Darty 
average. We expect to open around  
25 additional stores in 2015/16, bringing 
the total to around 70 stores.
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
70 
PER CENT
of consumers are within  
a 30-minute drive time  
of a Darty store. 14 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Strong kitchens offer
Thanks to improving the density of our merchandising in all other  
product categories, we now offer our bespoke kitchen range and  
service in over 70 stores, making sure we are capitalising on this  
fast growing area of the market.
 
Our medium term aim for the offer to be in 120 stores, in all  
catchments of over 200,000 inhabitants, is well on track.
“ The service and quality of 
Darty Kitchens is excellent.  
The price is good and the  
after-sales service and 
installation is very efficient  
and smooth.” Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 15
only 62 per cent compared to a European 
average of around 80 per cent and a 
growing electricals built-in market. At the 
same time, competitors are consolidating 
and, as Darty builds scale, consumer 
recognition of our kitchens offer is 
consistently improving year-on-year. 
As a result of increasing the density  
of merchandising in other product 
categories, we are now able to install  
the kitchen offer in smaller stores in  
the portfolio. We now have 71 stores with 
the offer generating over €80 million of 
revenue. Commercial initiatives during  
the year included interest free credit 
offers as well as a partnership with  
house builder, Bouygues Immobilier for 
customers to select a Darty kitchen to  
be installed in their new property. 
Given the acceleration of openings in  
the year, the time to reach maturity and 
pre-opening costs incurred ahead of the 
initial customer orders, a loss was made 
in 2014/15 of ¤4 million. At the end of the 
period a new catalogue was launched in 
print and online, featuring 32 different 
kitchen models, supported by a TV 
campaign from early May. With a further 
13 stores planned to have the offer in 
2015/16, together with changes to the 
management team, infrastructure and 
planned productivity improvements,  
we expect to move to profitability in  
the current financial year.
Outlook
Whilst we have started to see signs of 
improvement in consumer confidence,  
the product cycle will continue to have 
an impact on our markets which are 
expected to remain challenging. We are 
focused on building on what we have 
achieved through Nouvelle Confiance by 
investing in our customer proposition in 
all our businesses, reducing the cost base 
and delivering improved profitability.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review
Mistergooddeal.com
To increase Darty’s share of the fast 
growing market for an entry price  
offer, we acquired Mistergooddeal.com  
towards the end of the last financial year. 
Mistergooddeal.com is a leading French 
electricals website, predominantly in 
white goods at the price entry end of  
the market, with no service included. 
We have retained the brand name and  
are extending the product offer with the 
introduction of our own label brands. 
Darty’s existing service infrastructure is 
now being used to offer Mistergooddeal.
com customers additional services on a 
pay-as-you-go basis, with home delivery 
being offered from October and all 
suitable Darty stores can now be used  
as customer collection points. 
Initial trading was weaker than expected 
due to very competitive activity in the 
entry price end of the market. With a new 
management team in place from October 
2014 we deepened and accelerated the 
integration of the business into the main 
Darty operation to help speed up and 
deliver further cost savings. The head 
office was integrated in January 2015 
followed by the IT and warehousing in 
April 2015. A new look website was 
launched at the end of the year, on 
Darty’s IT platform. We also made 
changes to the product offer, exiting 
non-core categories such as furniture and 
extending small domestic appliance and 
vision ranges. The retail loss for 2014/15 
was ¤7.7 million but with the actions being 
taken commercially and particularly on 
the cost base, we expect to approach 
breakeven for 2015/16.
Kitchens
Our kitchens business in France is an 
example of our ability to continually 
develop the Darty brand further, and 
move into a new, related product area, 
build a relevant market position and  
drive profitability. The kitchen market  
has solid fundamentals with the fitted 
kitchen equipment rate in France being 
16 
FURTHER STORES
expanded the kitchen offer into  
16 further stores increasing the 
total to 71 stores. 16 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
“ We now have 75 stores in the  
BCC chain and have become a 
leading multi-channel electrical 
retailer in the market.”
Expansion in the Netherlands
Our business in the Netherlands, BCC, has seen much better results 
recently and we have driven this further forward with the acquisition  
of 18 profitable stores from a competitor.
All these stores geographically complement the existing portfolio.  
They have already been refitted and branded as BCC and are  
leveraging the existing store and after-sales service support  
infrastructure in the Netherlands.
