 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 11
Strategic report
quarter and ended the year close to 
half the peak they reached as recently 
as the autumn of 2013. The collapse in 
these markets and high milk production 
around the world and in the UK have led 
to a significant reduction in the price UK 
farmers have received for their milk. Our 
purchase prices for milk fell by around 
25% across the year, reversing the 
increases we have paid in recent years.
 The long-awaited abolition of European 
milk production quotas took effect 
from 1 April 2015. This has been widely 
expected to lead to an increase in milk 
production across Europe, although not 
in the UK where production has been 
unconstrained by quotas. It is too early 
to say how the reduction in global dairy 
commodity prices and the removal of 
quotas will affect milk production and 
imports of dairy products, particularly 
cheddar cheese, into the UK, although 
cheddar imports into the UK decreased 
9% in the year ended 31 December 2014 
(Source: DairyCo). While we monitor this 
situation closely we anticipate that our 
market leading Cathedral City branded 
cheddar will not be affected significantly 
by these changes and will continue to 
perform strongly.
 Against this market background we 
continue to position ourselves to deliver 
sustainable and profitable growth.
Transformational sale of Dairies 
operations
In November 2014 we agreed to sell 
the assets of our Dairies operations to 
Müller for a cash consideration of £80 
million. The conditional sale of our Dairies 
operations will result in Dairy Crest 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Summary
This has been another year of significant 
progress for Dairy Crest. We have 
grown combined Cheese and Spreads 
sales despite the deflationary market 
environment. We have also delivered 
an encouraging improvement in the 
combined margins of these businesses. 
Cathedral City has again outperformed 
and accounts for over 50% of retail 
sales of branded cheddar. Our focus on 
product development has underpinned 
these results and our investment in a 
new innovation centre will support this.  
We have again met our target to deliver 
annual cost savings of over £20 million. 
These include consolidating our butter and 
spreads production onto one site.
 We have agreed to sell our Dairies 
operations. The conditional sale is a 
positive development for Dairy Crest and 
the wider UK dairy sector. Shareholders 
have approved the sale and the process 
to obtain regulatory approval is on track. 
Completion of the sale will result in Dairy 
Crest operating from five well-invested 
manufacturing sites. It will be a much 
simpler, more focused, predominantly 
branded business. It will also have 
exposure to the growing infant formula 
category and emerging markets.
Market background
This year has been a difficult one for 
the major food retailers, our principal 
customers. They have faced falling sales 
due to food price deflation and greater 
competition. 
 It has also been a very difficult year 
for dairy farmers. Global dairy commodity 
prices have fallen steeply since the first 
becoming a stronger, predominantly 
branded business that can grow profitably 
and generate cash.
 In December 2014 Dairy Crest’s 
shareholders overwhelmingly approved the 
proposed sale, which remains conditional 
on the approval of the competition 
authorities. This process is on track. The 
European Commission referred it back 
to the UK for review by the Competition 
and Markets Authority (‘CMA’) which 
is currently expected to make a phase 
one decision in June 2015. Although this 
deadline may change and the review 
could move to a second phase we remain 
confident that a sale will ultimately be 
approved and proceed.
 The conditional sale of our Dairies 
operations and their subsequent 
combination with Müller’s dairies business 
will help create a more sustainable UK 
dairy sector by delivering economies 
of scale and cost efficiencies that will 
underpin investment and help the UK 
to compete more successfully in global 
markets. It is encouraging that we have 
received support for the sale from the 
independent organisation that represents 
our farmers, Dairy Crest Direct, and the 
wider farming community.
 A successful outcome will benefit 
farmers, consumers, customers, 
employees and Dairy Crest’s shareholders.
Cathedral City outperforms
In total, sales of our four key brands, 
Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life and 
FRijj were unchanged over the year. As the 
table on page 12 shows, both Cathedral 
City and FRijj performed strongly. However 
Clover and Country Life sales both fell in a 
butter and spreads market that continues 
to decline. Despite this we saw a welcome 
increase in margins in our Spreads and 
butters business.
 Cathedral City again outperformed 
the market and grew sales by 5%. Its 
annual growth over the last five years 
has averaged over 7%. Cathedral City is 
now Britain’s 16th largest grocery brand 
(Source: The Grocer 21 March 2015) up 
from 18th last year. Cathedral City now 
accounts for over 50% of total branded 
retail cheddar sales. Sales of competing 
cheddar brands have continued to decline. 
Taken together retail sales of the next 
three largest cheddar brands were down 
over 20% in the year and were just half 
those of Cathedral City.
 The UK butter and spreads market 
remains difficult. Total market sales fell by 
4%. Consumption is falling as consumers 
continue to turn away from making 
sandwiches in the home. Butter, where 
market sales are unchanged compared 
to last year, continues to gain share  12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
from spreads where sales are down 
8%. Against this background Clover and 
Country Life butter, our two key brands in 
this market, have delivered a satisfactory 
performance. Clover performed in line with 
the spreads market as a whole and was 
awarded Which magazine’s ‘Best Buy’ 
in the spreads category (Source: Which 
February 2015). Country Life Spreadable, 
which accounts for nearly 60% of total 
Country Life butter and spreads sales 
outperformed the butter market and grew 
sales by 2%. We expect to use some 
of the savings we will achieve from the 
consolidation of our spreads and packet 
butter production to increase marketing 
expenditure in this high-margin category.
 FRijj performed well. In a ready to 
drink flavoured milk market that is still 
growing, but at a much slower pace than 
last year, FRijj sales grew by 7%. Some 
of this growth came from sales to the 
food service and convenience sectors 
and is therefore not reflected in the IRI 
market data which just covers major 
multiples. The FRijj brand is included in the 
conditional sale of our Dairies operations 
to Müller.
 We have also seen strong growth 
from Frylight one calorie cooking spray, 
which we purchased in 2011. This brand 
has responded well to the increased 
investment in marketing that we have 
made consistently since then and has 
the potential to grow further. In future 
we expect to report it as one of our key 
brands alongside Cathedral City, Clover 
and Country Life butter and spreads.
 Dairy is one of the UK’s largest food 
retail categories and during the year 
Dairy Crest carried out a comprehensive 
category strategy project. ‘Dairy for Life’ 
is a framework to make people look 
differently at the dairy category. It forms 
the foundation for future innovation, 
marketing and category merchandising 
for our key brands. We will work with 
our major customers to implement the 
Dairy for Life findings and drive growth 
across the dairy category. Some ideas 
generated by Dairy for Life, such as 
cross-sector promotions and additional 
store positionings, have already been 
implemented. 
 Innovation remains key to the success 
of our brands. During the year we have 
launched several brand extensions 
including Cathedral City Spreadable, 
Clover Lighter than Light, and reduced 
sugar FRijj. Since the year end we 
have started to produce and sell Clover 
cooking oil which combines Frylight 
spray technology and the strength of the 
Clover brand.
 In the year ended 31 March 2015 
around 7% of our combined Cheese and 
whey and Spreads and butter revenue 
came from products introduced in the last 
3 years. This compares to our ongoing 
ambitious target of 10% and last year’s 
performance of 4% across the business as 
a whole and 7% for our branded business.
 To further increase our focus on 
innovation we have entered into a new 
partnership with Harper Adams University. 
Our innovation team has moved to 
Harper Adams and we are building 
a £4 million innovation centre on the 
university campus. We expect this to be 
fully operational by the end of 2015. The 
partnership will give us access to food 
and farming research that will help us 
continue to develop new products and 
ways of working.
Building from strength
We have continued to make good 
progress with projects that enhance 
the future prospects of our Cheese 
and Spreads operations, including 
consolidating butter and spreads 
production onto one site and investing 
in demineralised whey and galacto-
oligosaccharide, a lactose based prebiotic.
 We are nearing completion of the 
project to make demineralised whey 
powder and GOS at our Davidstow 
creamery in Cornwall. These products will 
give us access to new sales channels in 
growing global markets. Both products 
are used in the manufacture of infant 
formula for which there is growing demand 
across the world. We expect commercial 
manufacture of both products to start later 
this year. During the year we entered into 
a strategic partnership with Fonterra, the 
world’s leading dairy exporter. Fonterra will 
market and sell our products on our behalf 
and is also providing valuable technical 
and engineering support.
Cost cutting
We have again achieved our target of 
making cost savings in excess of £20 
million in the year.
 The consolidation of our spreads and 
packet butter manufacturing into one site 
at Kirkby, Merseyside and the closure of 
Crudgington will give us a lower fixed cost 
base that will benefit future years.
 We continue to work with non-milk 
suppliers to drive efficiencies and lower 
our purchase costs. During the year 
we have increased our use of lighter weight 
polybottles; reduced packaging costs and 
made our distribution network more efficient.
 Cost reduction is essential in our 
residential milk delivery business, where 
CHIeF exe CUTIve’ S Rev IeW COn TIn UeD
Brand Market Dairy Crest 
sales growth*
Market statistics**
      Brand growth Market growth
 
Cheese
+5% +2%
unchanged
  Spreads
-8% -8% -8%
 
Butter
-9% -7%
unchanged
 
Ready to drink 
flavoured milk
+7%
unchanged
+4%
Total
 
unchanged
 
* Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31 March 2015 v 12 months to 31 March 2014 ** IRI data 52 weeks to 28 March 2015 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 13
Strategic report
sales fell by 11% compared to the year 
ended 31 March 2014. We have continued 
with our programme of depot closures. 
In addition we announced that we would 
further rationalise our Dairies operations 
and consult with employees regarding 
the closure of our glass bottling dairy in 
Hanworth, West London and our specialist 
cream potting facility in Chard, Somerset. 
We anticipate that Chard will close later in 
2015 and Hanworth in 2016. 
 Completion of the sale of our Dairies 
operations will significantly reduce the 
complexity of the business and will allow 
us to streamline our future overhead 
structure and systems.
Financial performance
The financial performance of the business 
as a whole starkly demonstrates the 
differing financial performances of 
the operations we are retaining and 
those we are selling. Taken together 
our Cheese and whey and Spreads 
and butter businesses (which we will 
retain) delivered marginally higher sales 
compared to the year ended 31 March 
2014 and significantly higher product 
group profits, up by 19% to £66.9 million. 
However excluding property profits our 
Dairies business (which we are selling) 
recorded a product group loss of £15.8 
million against a profit of £0.6 million in 
the previous year. Property profits were 
broadly in line with last year at £17.6 million 
(2014: £18.2 million). 
 For the business as a whole, adjusted 
group profit before tax decreased by 
7% to £60.6 million (2014: £65.3 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
also decreased by 7% to 38.0 pence 
(2014: 40.8 pence). Pre-tax exceptional 
charges in the year were £36.3 million 
(2014: £10.4 million). These mainly related 
to the closure and future closure of 
manufacturing sites. Reported profit before 
tax, which reflects these exceptional 
charges, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension interest, was 
£22.1 million (2014: £54.2 million). 
 Group net debt at 31 March 2015 
was £199 million up from £142 million at 
31 March 2014, as we invested a high 
level of capital expenditure in the whey 
and galacto-oligosaccharide project at 
Davidstow and the completion of the Kirkby 
spreads and butter manufacturing facility.
Future prospects
Completion of the sale of our Dairies 
operations will result in Dairy Crest 
operating from five well-invested 
manufacturing sites and be a much 
simpler, more focused, predominantly 
branded business. It will also have 
exposure to the growing infant formula 
category and emerging markets.
 Looking ahead, Dairy Crest is well 
positioned for sustainable, profitable 
growth. Over the coming year as a 
whole we expect results to benefit from 
the continued growth of Cathedral City, 
ongoing cost savings and the completion 
of our project at Davidstow where we 
will add value to our whey stream by 
producing ingredients for infant formula. 
This growth will be second half weighted.
 We expect that our net debt, which 
at the year end remains within our target 
range, will fall once we have completed 
our major investment projects. The 
receipt of the proceeds from the sale of 
our Dairies operations will accelerate this 
reduction.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
20 May 2015
