 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15 03
Overview
Chairman’s statement
We launched Nouvelle Confiance, our 
three stage strategic plan to restore 
shareholder value, nearly three years  
ago and we have successfully executed  
all the key components on schedule.
The first stage was to identify and 
eliminate the losses at our non core 
businesses in Italy, Spain, Turkey and the 
Czech Republic and Slovakia to refocus  
on our core markets in France, Belgium 
and the Netherlands. This process  
was completed in July 2014 with the 
disposal of Datart in the Czech Republic 
and Slovakia.
Having refocused the Group, we set out to 
create value from our market leadership 
position, drive greater efficiency and 
reduce costs and we devised a four point 
action plan (the ‘4Ds’) to:
• 
Drive trading by delivering on promise 
to customers;
• 
Digitalise Darty by further enhancing 
our multi-channel offer and leading 
websites;
• 
Develop our brand by improving our 
product and market leading service 
offerings as well as expanding our 
customer base; and
• 
Deliver cost efficiencies.
I am pleased with the continued success 
we have had and a full account of our 
activities and achievements can be  
found in the Chief Executive’s review. 
The third component of the plan was  
to identify future growth opportunities. 
We announced last year our initiatives 
to expand the Darty portfolio through 
a franchise operation, extend our ‘low 
price’ offer through the acquisition of 
Mistergooddeal.com and a progamme  
to increase the number of stores in France 
with the kitchen offer. We have been 
busy implementing all three programmes 
and I am pleased that during the last 
year we opened 39 franchise stores, 
integrated the Mistergooddeal.com 
business into Darty France helping us 
increase web generated sales by over 
22 per cent and expanded the kitchen 
offer by a further 16 stores to 71 stores.
We still have more to do to ensure  
growth in shareholder value but we 
have a strong platform for the future.
Given the progress we have made,  
the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 2.625 cents per share,  
bringing the total dividend for the year  
to 3.5 cents per share, reflecting our 
confidence in our ability to deliver 
improved results in the medium term.
Dominic Platt, our Finance Director for 
over five years, will be leaving the Group 
on 30 June and I would like to thank 
him for his valuable contribution to the 
business and wish him every success 
for the future. His successor Albin 
Jacquemont joined the Group in March 
and joins the Board as Finance Director 
on 18 June. He is already making 
a positive impact and I look forward to 
working with him over the coming years. 
Finally I must thank all our colleagues 
across the Group for their hard work 
and loyalty, particularly in these difficult 
trading times.
We have delivered on our Nouvelle Confiance plan 
and have a strong platform for the future.
Alan Parker CBE
Chairman  04 Darty plc Annual report 2014/15
Successful franchise operation
Our franchise programme is proving extremely successful and popular with both 
the franchisees and their customers.
The store owners are enjoying the benefit of the Darty brand with wider ranges, 
access to the full Darty service offer and Darty.com.
We now have over 40 stores in operation and are on track for 100 by 2016/17.
“ Typically my sales are up by  
50–75 per cent every month  
so I am very pleased to have  
joined the Darty store network.”
