 Defenx PLC Annual Report 2015 2 Defenx PLC Annual Report 2015 2
Founded in 2009, Defenx is a fast-growing and 
profitable security software company that offers a 
range of products for the mobile, PC and network 
security markets. Defenx security software is  
priced competitively, fully featured and efficient 
(reduced use of memory, processing capacity and 
therefore power).
A flexible marketing strategy, focused on white label and profit-share 
arrangements with distributors, telecoms companies and hardware 
manufacturers, enables Defenx to compete with established industry 
incumbents. Since inception, Defenx has sold over 3.1 million security 
software licences, primarily in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Defenx’s global distribution partners currently include 3Italia, the fourth 
largest Italian mobile network operator, and Seagate Technology, a world 
leader in disk drive manufacturing, amongst others including telecoms 
operators, systems integrators and original equipment manufacturers. 
Defenx was admitted to trading on AIM on 3 December 2015, raising  
€3.0 million to accelerate its growth through new channel partners  
and product development.
Who we are 
what we do
€1.35 million
invested in our products in 2015
€3.0 million
raised to accelerate growth
Our products
Total Security
Our complete solution to protect all  
your devices combining Defenx Mobile 
Security Suite for Android, iOS or 
Windows and Defenx Security Suite  
for PC.
Cloud Backup 
Defenx Cloud Backup provides backup, 
synchronisation and sharing of your 
most important ﬁles, such as 
documents, music, video and pictures of 
your family. If your computer or mobile 
device breaks, is stolen or if the ﬁle is 
corrupted or removed by mistake, there 
will always be a copy available in the 
Defenx Cloud.
Multi-device
At a glance Defenx PLC
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Annual Report 2015 3 Defenx PLC
Strategic Report 
Annual Report 2015 3
What is malware?
Malware, which is short for malicious software, 
is a general term used to refer to a variety of 
forms of hostile or intrusive software. It is 
software used to disrupt computer operation, 
gather and distribute sensitive information,  
or gain access to private computer systems. 
Malware can also cause direct financial loss by 
sending premium SMS messages, consuming 
your data allowance, and abusing personal 
banking and credit card information obtained  
on your device.
Malware includes computer viruses, 
ransomware, worms, trojan horses, rootkits,  
key loggers, diallers, spyware, adware, malicious 
browser-helper objects, rogue security software 
and ‘govware’ and other malicious programs.
Malware can also take the form of code,  
scripts, active content and other software  
that exploits weaknesses in commonly used 
software. The most common end-point exploits 
in 2015 used well known software including 
Internet Explorer, Adobe Flash, Adobe Reader, 
Microsoft Silverlight and Java. 
End-points, such as PC and mobile devices, are 
targeted because they contain specific user 
information that is used for gaining access to 
privileged or protected networks. 
How do you protect yourself?
There are some simple yet effective measures 
anyone can take. Keeping your device up-to-
date significantly cuts the chances that exploits 
work because vendors work hard to patch 
vulnerabilities.
For the security conscious, using browser 
add-ons that check web addresses against 
known lists of malicious sites, block Adobe Flash 
and disable scripts is also an effective way of 
thwarting malicious redirections although it  
can affect the browsing experience.
The effective solution is to adopt a layered 
approach: maintain a fully patched device  
with the latest OS update together with  
anti-malware protection.
The problem
Security Suite
Defenx Security Suite offers 360° 
protection with mail and website 
ﬁltering, antivirus and a ﬁrewall 
ensuring the safety of your data and 
preventing hacker exploitation. We 
keep your PC protected and let you 
use it with full peace of mind.
Mobile Security Suite
Security and privacy
Information on the device,  
apps behaviour and potentially 
malicious activity is monitored  
by Defenx to thwart data theft 
and keep your device safe.
Theft protection
Defenx theft protection 
features give you the tools  
you need to ﬁnd a lost device 
and to help you get a stolen 
device back.
Utility
The Defenx dashboard 
provides you with a quick  
view of your device to manage 
applications, scanning 
schedules and activity. 
Antivirus
Defenx Antivirus protects you from 
malware keeping your PC safe. 
Whether a security novice  
or expert, you can conﬁgure Defenx 
Antivirus to suit your needs.
Desktop Mobile devices
Our technology page 8
