 Defenx PLC Annual Report 2015 4
Hard work
progress
Dear shareholder
I was delighted to be asked to join the Board of Defenx in 
October 2015 prior to its successful AIM IPO in December 
2015. Although we have only been a listed company for a short 
time, I believe that we have made much progress across the 
business and confidence is high. It is thanks to the hard work 
put in by our talented management team, as well as those 
working across and with the business, that we have been able 
to make this progress and give us the foundation from which to 
grow our operation.
Highlights
I am pleased that in our maiden results as a listed company, 
Defenx has reported an 88% increase in revenue to €4.5 million 
and an operating profit before exceptional AIM admission costs 
of €979,000, making this our fourth consecutive year of 
profitable growth. At the turn of the year, over 900,000 
Defenx users around the globe were protected by our software 
and security updates.
The IPO in December together with the funds raised 
strengthens our balance sheet and gives us the flexibility to 
invest in sales and technology, and consider acquisitions where 
they complement our strategy for growth.
“We have had a strong start to 2016, launching 
Windows Phone 10 and Defenx Cloud Backup 
products. I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank our staff and shareholders whose hard 
work and support have facilitated the growth 
seen in 2015, which we hope to continue.”
Chairman’s statement Defenx PLC
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Annual Report 2015 5
As a company we have worked hard in 2015 to bring together 
a team that has the right combination of sector knowledge 
and corporate experience to enable us to deliver on our vision 
and strategy. We have also taken the opportunity to structure 
the business for growth with new employment terms, 
systems and procedures.
Board and management
Along with my arrival on the Board, Defenx also secured the 
services of Leonard Seelig as Non-executive Director. Leonard 
chairs the Audit Committee and sits on the Remuneration 
Committee, which I chair. Philipp Prince joined Defenx as our 
CFO in July 2015 and has many years’ experience in corporate 
finance at BDO where he was a partner. Philipp comes to us 
from Enecsys, a Silicon Valley-based business.
The senior management team is led by our founder,  
Andrea Stecconi, CEO and includes Guido Branca, COO, highly 
experienced in IT and telecoms systems implementation, 
Mauro Celentano, Technical Director and Angelo Motti, 
Commercial Director.
Outlook
So far in 2016, we have launched Defenx Mobile Security 
Suite for Windows 10 along with updates for Android and iOS. 
Our strategic partnership with Memopal saw the launch of 
Defenx Cloud Backup, which has already generated significant 
interest from our channel partners. Meanwhile development 
continues on products aimed at families and SMEs, which are 
discussed in more detail in the CEO’s review.
This is an exciting time to be part of Defenx as we seek to 
build on the momentum from 2015. As a profitable and 
fast-growing mobile security solutions company, I am 
confident Defenx will have an exciting 2016. The whole 
Board looks forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM on 
Wednesday 22 June 2016.
Anthony Reeves
Chairman
18 April 2016
Key milestones
2009
• Defenx SA launched in Switzerland
• Defenx Security Suite launched for PC
2010
•  Defenx Security Suite for  
Windows networks launched
2012
•  Defenx Mobile Security Suite launched  
for Android
• Generated ﬁrst proﬁt on sales of €1.1 million
2013
•  Mobile Security Suite for Android IP bought  
out from developer
2014
• Defenx PLC incorporated
•  Private placing raising €1.3 milion  
after expenses
• NAS Antivirus launched for Seagate NAS drives
2015
•  Defenx Mobile Security Suite launched for iOS
• AIM IPO raising €2.1 million after expenses
2016
•  Defenx Mobile Security Suite launched for 
Windows 10 Phone
• Defenx Cloud Backup launched
