 Defenx PLC Annual Report 2015 16
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Tran sform ation
development
Dear shareholder
A year of transformation 
2015 was a transformative year in the development of Defenx.
We successfully joined AIM, the junior market of the London 
Stock Exchange, on 3 December after a year of hard work.  
I am pleased that the shareholders who invested in our 
private placing during 2014 have seen this next stage of 
development and an uplift in the value of their investment.  
I hope they and our IPO investors will continue to support us 
on our journey.
The IPO is also important for the Group as not only does it 
give us access to equity capital markets as we seek to grow 
the business, but it has also resulted in enhanced governance 
and improved disciplines which we implemented in 
preparation for our IPO. 
You have already heard from our Chairman on the 
appointments to the Board. We have also improved our 
infrastructure across the organisation by formalising 
employment contracts, introducing new remuneration 
structures aligned with our strategy and implementing 
cloud-based systems that facilitate the production of, and 
access, to sales and financial information and reports.
Delivering the strategy
Defenx’s strategy can be framed simply as technology 
marketing: we know how to develop security software  
and market solutions to meet the needs of end-users.
During the year we successfully launched Defenx Mobile Security 
Suite for iOS, the Enterprise NAS software for our storage partner, 
Seagate, and completed the systems integration with 3Italia 
enabling them to bill customers on a monthly basis from their 
webstore and over 3,000 outlets across Italy.
At the start of 2015, two new channel partners joined us.  
I am pleased to report that they both exceeded the annual 
sales targets set at the outset. We also implemented new 
agreements with channel partners under which Defenx 
provides a contribution towards their marketing activities, 
payable in arrears, but only if they achieve the pre-agreed  
sales targets. We expect this to increase the effectiveness  
of marketing activities undertaken by our channel partners  
and to improve our working capital position.
By 31 December 2015, agreements have been signed with 
seven major distributors who, in turn, have access to hundreds 
of resellers across Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In 2016, 
we intend to further Defenx’s marketing efforts across Africa, 
Asia and Latin America. Defenx PLC
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Annual Report 2015 17
Our in-house Sales Resource Management (SRM) system allows 
our partners to save time and costs, so they can easily manage 
licence inventory and reordering. The SRM control panel allows 
resellers to see when their customers are ready for renewal and 
plan marketing campaigns to renew or up-sell. The SRM can be 
accessed online 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days  
a year. 
Product development
Using the proceeds of the private placing from 2014, we were 
able to continue the development of our software. Immediately 
following the IPO, our software developers started work on a range 
of upgrades and new products at an expected cost of around  
€2 million. In April 2016, we announced the launch of Defenx 
Mobile Security Suite for Windows 10 and Defenx Cloud Backup.
Defenx Mobile Security Suite for Windows 10 Phone was the 
first major product release since the IPO and delivers on the 
commitment made at the time to complete the development of 
full Windows 10 and PC compatibility. Defenx Mobile Security 
Suite, already available for Android and iOS, now runs on over 
90% of smartphone platforms.
Defenx Cloud Backup significantly expands our product 
portfolio. It offers online backup, synchronisation and sharing 
of files across multiple mobile and desktop devices. The suite 
of features, such as online-only access to free up memory/disk 
space, unlimited version history and selective backup, is 
commonly not available with other products. Defenx Cloud 
Backup is available in 16 different languages.
New feature and upgrade work continues for Android and iOS 
along with the development of Defenx Privacy Advisor and 
mobile device management solutions for families and SMEs to 
broaden the Defenx product offering further.
Financial
I am pleased that despite the pressures of the IPO, we were  
able to grow revenue during 2015 to €4.5 million, an 88% 
year-on-year increase on 2014. We also maintained our record of 
profitable growth since 2012. We report in detail on the financial 
performance of Defenx during 2015 on pages 18 to 20.
We continue to operate a lean team, believing that a broader 
range of expertise can be mobilised more rapidly and cost 
effectively on an outsourced basis. In addition to the three 
Executive Directors, there have been on average three senior 
staff working from our Swiss office. Other sales, marketing, 
development and finance resources have been engaged as 
needed on an outsourced basis.
Corporate and social responsibility
Our software is optimised for mobile devices running on 
battery power. We seek to maximise its efficiency by reducing 
the impact on processing capacity and memory. Our products 
therefore have lower power consumption reducing the 
frequency of battery recharging: a small, but scalable 
contribution to the environment.
In common with many businesses, our greatest impact on the 
environment comes from travel, notably air travel. We seek to 
use modern communications to limit air travel as far as possible. 
Current trading and outlook
Trading in the first quarter is in line with expectations. Our 
focus continues to be delivery of new and updated products to 
drive sales growth through existing and new channel partners.
In light of the modest funds raised at IPO, senior management 
including the Executive Directors, agreed to a one third 
reduction of their contractual salary entitlements for 2016,  
a saving of around €200,000.
Since the beginning of the year, we have engaged additional 
sales resources based in the UK, agreed revised terms with  
our development partner in Romania and signed sales and 
distribution contracts with Brigantia (UK), Metrological 
(Netherlands) and Memopal (Italy).
We actively continue to seek new channel partners across 
Europe, the Middle East and Africa. A number of negotiations 
are at an advanced stage and I hope to be able to announce 
further progress soon. Longer term, we continue to engage 
with potential partners in Asia and Latin America and hope to 
broaden our geographic footprint during 2016.
I continue to believe that with our B2B2C strategy described 
above, increasingly coming into shape, Defenx is well-
positioned to deliver value to shareholders in the year ahead.
The Strategic Report, which includes the Chief Executive 
Officer’s Review, was approved by the Board of Directors  
and signed on its behalf.
Andrea Stecconi
Chief Executive Officer
18 April 2016
