  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Executive’s Statement 
Well positioned 
to unlock potential 
in the market 
Michael Marx 
Chief Executive 
Development Securities, with its 
track record of partnership with 
both institutions and private investors, 
together with its transparency as 
a regulated, publicly listed entity, 
is increasingly seen as a desired 
partner for those in need of capital. 
With the two recent, successful share offerings in 
July 2009 and July 2010 that have together raised 
£200 million, we are approaching the appropriate scale 
for a signiﬁcant property business from which a number of 
advantages will ﬂow. 
Clearly, the Company has greater resources with 
which to approach a marketplace presently somewhat 
starved of capital, but not so much resource that we are 
compelled to seek larger, prime sector deals at what may 
be inﬂated prices – our preference remaining to operate 
in the space above the level associated with private 
capital, but below that normally associated with the large 
REIT operations. Secondly, we will be more operationally 
efﬁcient since we intend to deploy the new equity without 
the need to add signiﬁcantly to our overhead structure and 
as a result, the operational cash ﬂow will be more even and 
move closer to being self-sustaining. Additionally, once we 
have completed the deployment of the fresh £200 million 
of capital raised, we will have doubled the value of property 
assets under our control, thus reducing the impact on our 
ﬁnances of those legacy assets from the previous cycle 
which are perhaps not best suited for this stage of the 
current economic cycle. 
There continues a sense that the UK remains at the 
crossroads without any strong sense of clarity as to which 
direction the economy will eventually take. Probably in the 
main due to the swift application of the policy of quantitative 
easing, a complete economic collapse was avoided but 
there are undoubtedly pitfalls ahead wherever one looks. 
Unsurprisingly, after the traumatic experience of recent 
years, both business and consumer conﬁdence is in 
relatively short supply and, as is often the case, it will need 
to be rebuilt slowly and carefully. It is of little comfort that 
the UK is not alone in these difﬁculties, especially since 
our major trading partner, the European Union, has its own 
problems on a perhaps more extensive scale. 
This current uncertainty prescribes the behaviour of 
the consumer and consequently also of industry and 
business. Household savings ratios have now restored 
themselves to the reasonable level of ﬁve per cent as is the 
customary reaction following a period of ﬁnancial stress. 
Given the challenges faced in the coming few years 
through increased direct and indirect taxation, as well as 
the likely rise in unemployment induced by government-led 
cut backs, the savings ratios may plateau rather than 
increase as these savings reserves are utilised to overcome 
the next few difﬁcult years. It remains to be seen whether 
and how rapidly the private sector can take on the challenge 
of energising the spare capacity that now exists in the UK 
economy – for therein lies the solution. 
Rental growth has now levelled out after a decline 
of several years and given current vacancy rates that 
exist within most sectors, is unlikely to increase at a 
signiﬁcant rate until the medium-term. Prospective IPD 
Index performance will therefore depend more on interest 
rate levels and yields if further capital growth is to be 
achieved. We do not view this as likely for some time, but 
we need to remind ourselves that real estate is a long-
term, cyclical business rather than a short-term sprint. 
In such circumstances, it is reassuring to see that 
on an historic comparative yield basis, property still looks 
fairly priced in comparison both to the bond and equity 
markets. It would seem that the generous yield spread is 
justiﬁed by the uncertainty that lies ahead. 
Apart from the level of interest rates, which are to 
some extent within the control of the UK monetary 
authorities, the two big UK banking groups are in control 
of a substantial overhang of real estate that represents the 
legacy of past lending to the real estate sector. In addition, 
there are, of course, the even more acute problems 
associated with the Irish banking system. To date, the 
banks generally have been cautious with regard to both the 
speed and quantum of the real estate they have released 
back to the market and have focused primarily on those 
prime assets which have found ready investors from within 
the substantial amount of money that is seeking to enter 
the market. Increasingly, having now harvested what might 
be termed the low hanging fruit, the UK banking groups 
may ﬁnd it more challenging to dispose of those assets of 
a more secondary nature. But since their exposure to real 
estate loans is still at levels above those when the 1990 
crash began, deal with these assets they must. Effectively, 
circa £100 billion needs to be found over the medium-term 
to reduce the banks’ inappropriate loan exposures to the 
real estate sector. Some of this amount will likely come 
from further loan loss provisions once the banks have 
internally replenished their capital through enhanced 
earnings, and some from redemption or reﬁnancing. It is 
only once the banking sector has returned to health that 
the property business, amongst others, will have a chance 
to ﬁre on all cylinders again. 
8 Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2010   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
ww7 .investorrelations.co.uk/devsec/ar10/ 
ce-statement 
The support of our shareholders in the last two years for 
fresh equity of £200 million has placed us in a strong 
position for the next few years. The large scale cash-rich 
real estate investors have traditionally and quite rightly 
been reluctant to invest outside the prime sector due to 
considerations of both risk and lot size. Development 
Securities represents one of the relatively few portals 
through which such much needed equity can ﬂ ow in order 
to access the returns from this fertile area of the market, 
since we not only have the cash and the expertise 
necessary to deal with complex real estate issues, but 
have always remained diligently focused on commercial 
property in the UK. As such, our brand in the market has 
strengthened in those various areas of the sector where 
capital starvation is acute. 
Development Securities, with its track record of 
partnership with both institutions and private investors, 
together with its transparency as a regulated, publicly 
listed entity, is increasingly seen as a desired partner for 
those in need of capital. Under such circumstances, we 
are tending to ﬁnd that terms of trade are moving more in 
our favour. 
It would seem that, for Development Securities, the 
next few years will be spent for the most part unlocking 
problem assets with pregnant value or carrying forward 
modest-sized development schemes which are unable to 
ﬁnd sufﬁcient available capital. 
It is unsurprising that major development schemes 
in the next few years are likely to be restricted to Central 
London where special considerations have seemingly 
always applied. History would caution us that this market 
is the most volatile of all sectors in the UK, due to its heavy 
focus on the ﬁnancial services sector and with an increasing 
representation by overseas investors who may often also 
be signiﬁcantly represented in the occupational markets in 
Central London. It would appear that the likely reason why 
real rents have declined so signiﬁ cantly in the Square Mile 
since the early 1980s is that supply has continued on 
average to consistently outpace demand. Since the advent 
of Canary Wharf, this supply has also appeared outside 
the walls of the City of London but has nevertheless drawn 
off a considerable amount of demand, thus weakening 
rental growth within the core district. We do not believe 
that a new generation of very tall buildings in the Square 
Mile will alleviate this factor – rather, perhaps, compound 
it. Nevertheless, since there still appears to be value to be 
captured in the increasing agglomeration of skills in 
London, we continue to pursue Central London 
development schemes and search out those opportunities 
where creativity and added value justify risk and price. We 
are conﬁdent that we will eventually secure appropriate 
opportunities, but we proceed with caution. 
Whilst property is not manifesting indications of a 
fresh price bubble, there is little doubt that quantitative 
easing encouraged the recent sharp upward re-pricing of 
the market as investors struggled to ﬁnd assets that they 
could regard as generating signiﬁcant steady cash ﬂow 
and which offered the potential, at least, of an inﬂation 
hedge. The assets that we have been able to acquire over 
the last 18 months or so have come forward to the market 
by virtue of some degree of ﬁnancial stress. Apart from the 
obvious instances of where we have been able to acquire 
property previously foreclosed by the banks because of 
loan defaults, there would appear to be increasing pressure 
from the banks onto their customers to resolve loans that 
are not fully performing and accelerate property disposals 
in order to avoid the need for loan foreclosure. Additionally, 
the absence of signiﬁcant fresh capital to the property 
sector outside of the prime Central London market, has 
brought forward a number of situations where both fresh 
capital and expertise is required to unlock development 
potential. Finally, mainly in the area of strategic land 
improvement, there is a signiﬁcant shortage of capital 
available to individuals who have expertise and are willing 
to partner with us in exchange for appropriate funding. 
Strategic land opportunities in which we have taken 
interest relate mainly to prospective residential land. 
Otherwise, our preferred asset class for development 
propositions emerging from the market still tends to be 
neighbourhood shopping centres anchored either by a 
major food store or by an equally strong major retail trading 
covenant. These schemes enable us to create value where 
demand is evident and also provide a defensive component 
due to the strength of the anchor itself. 
More recently, we are evolving an increasing 
appetite in well established urban areas for mixed-
use development projects that can embrace a not 
insigniﬁcant residential component. Of course, opportun­ istic transactions will always be of interest at the 
appropriate value. 
Our current role, outside of possible large-scale 
commercial development in Central London, is focused on 
the transformation of assets, which presently languish for 
one reason or another within the secondary sector of the 
market, into higher quality real estate that will appeal to the 
ultimate cash investor. If interest rates remain low and 
inﬂation remains subdued, the cash investor will deploy his 
funds into these newly created or refreshed assets with or 
without a capital contribution from the banking sector. If 
inﬂation does begin to manifest itself, the cash investor will 
largely believe that his real estate portfolio will act in the 
medium- to longer-term as a partial inﬂation hedge. 
Within the above strategic and tactical observations 
we will continue to run our business in accord with the 
same risk-averse policies which fashioned our track record 
over the last 15 years or so. Those strategies proved 
effective against the worst excesses of volatility that the 
UK market has ever seen and we believe will continue to 
do so. 
Michael Marx 
Chief Executive 
1st March 2011 
Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2010 9 
