 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Our performance
During the financial year, we realised development and trading gains 
of £45.7 million, a record-level for your Company and the first of what 
we believe will be many years of heightened profitability. This included 
significant gains of £4.4 million arising from our main legacy asset, 
399 Edgware Road. Other significant contributors to profitability were 
10 Hammersmith Grove, our 1 10,000 sq. ft. prime office development 
which is now fully let and generated gains of £6.7 million, and the 
substantial residential development at Telegraph Works, Greenwich, 
one of Cathedral’s projects, which realised an initial profit of 
£10.2 million. 
As one would expect, the realisation of such significant profits, 
together with the monetisation of the underlying invested equity 
capital, has released funds for us to reinvest in new projects within 
our acknowledged area of expertise. Our focus is on opportunities 
where we can create value through planning gain, regeneration and 
development. Dublin became an increasing area of interest for us as 
we took our expertise and experience into an international capital city 
where development had also been severely constrained since the 
financial crash and where demand is currently resurging. 
Within our investment portfolio, property valuations continued to 
benefit from the narrowing yield spread between primary and 
secondary markets. During the year, we successfully recycled in 
excess of £60 million out of assets where we had maximised added 
value and reinvested this into convenience retail and alternative assets 
with robust long-term income streams, more resilient values and 
attractive income yields. Our investment portfolio is now re-established 
at its £200 million level.
Our market
The UK economic recovery continues, with GDP growth in the 
current year likely to equal or even exceed that of 2014. This 
stable environment is attracting not only inward migration but also 
a significant flow of funds from overseas investors into London and 
other big cities. Notwithstanding, the Government has some way yet 
to go in order to reduce the significant UK budget account deficit, 
implying that further reductions in Government expenditure are to 
be anticipated.
Outlook
This has been a year of standout performance for your Company with 
activity levels now established at an enhanced level as terms of trade 
remain attractive in the geographic and operational sectors in which 
we operate. It is especially pleasing to report that the management 
team has been deepened in both quality and numbers following the 
Cathedral acquisition. It is this management team that will deliver the 
promise that lies ahead and in whom I have undoubted confidence.
Michael Marx
Chief Executive
29th April 2015
Our focus
During the year, we have seen an improved financial performance 
derived from the strategic direction that we set a few years ago. Our 
focus remains to create value through property regeneration and trading, 
with planning betterment providing the key to value creation in the 
majority of our activities. We have expanded the number of regeneration 
projects on which we are working and are largely focussed within 
Greater London and the South East region where economic growth is 
most pronounced. Rather than invest a disproportionate amount of our 
resources into any one project, we have continued to limit the amount of 
equity invested by us into any one scheme, thus reducing specific asset 
pricing risk. As a consequence, deal flow and activity levels have been 
high and I would expect this to remain unchanged in the medium-term. 
Our regeneration activities focus on mixed-use development and 
placemaking. It is a process whereby we can add significant value as 
areas of previous dereliction and neglect are radically changed into 
vibrant new communities with an infrastructure that creates a quality 
legacy for future generations. Our activities in this area of the market 
have been significantly enhanced through the acquisition of Cathedral 
Group (Cathedral), which has brought with it an increase in the number 
of delivery options available to us, particularly with respect to residential 
development activity and Public Private Partnership projects. 
WELL 
POSITIONED 
TO DELIVER 
STRENGTHENED 
RETURNS
16
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 Michael Marx, Chief Executive (second from left)
Photographed in Howick Place, Victoria, London, the new 
headquarters office for the Group, with the Executive Board 
(from left to right): Marcus Shepherd, Matthew Weiner and 
Richard Upton. Read biographies on pages 70 and 71
17
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
