 Acquisition of Cathedral Group
The acquisition of specialist regeneration developer Cathedral 
Group (Cathedral) in May 2014 was a strategic step-change for 
your Company, significantly expanding our current portfolio of projects 
and deepening the strength and experience of our management 
team. Cathedral’s expertise in residential-led mixed-use regeneration 
projects in Greater London and the South East is complementary 
to our own, and has expanded our capacity to build our pipeline 
and market share going forward. It is pleasing to note that the sale 
in December 2014 of the Cathedral project Telegraph Works, in 
Greenwich, has already contributed to our strong development 
and trading gains during the year. 
Management changes
In February 2015, we announced that after 21 years of service on 
the Board, Michael Marx will stand down from his position as Chief 
Executive at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 14th July 2015. 
Michael will be succeeded by Matthew Weiner as Chief Executive, 
who has served as a Board Director for 10 years. Richard Upton, 
formerly Chief Executive of Cathedral and a Board Director of 
Development Securities, will be appointed as Deputy Chief Executive 
with Marcus Shepherd continuing as Finance Director. Matthew has 
been pivotal to the success of the business in recent years and will 
be supported by a strong management team. I am confident that 
this team is best placed to deliver the full potential of the business. 
Following the AGM, Michael will remain on the Board as a Non-
executive Director until 29th February 2016. I would like to thank 
Michael for his outstanding contribution for many years as Chief 
Executive. Under his leadership, the Company has grown into one 
of the UK’s leading regeneration developers.
In March 2015, Julian Barwick stepped down from the Board in 
order to reduce his time commitment to the business. Julian retains 
his position as a Director of our development subsidiary and I have 
no doubt that he will still contribute significantly to the business 
in the years ahead with a continued focus on our office-led 
development projects.
I am also pleased to note again the appointment of Barry Bennett 
to your Board, previously Chairman of Cathedral, who brings 
with him significant and relevant experience of residential and 
mixed-use development.
Outlook
The ongoing economic recovery in the UK is now beginning to 
manifest itself in real wage growth, job creation and reduced 
unemployment which I believe will continue to support the increasingly 
vibrant economy in Greater London and the South East. This provides 
a healthy backdrop for all of our activities, particularly our ability to 
create value through regeneration. With such a talented senior 
management team, a diversified portfolio of projects and deep 
expertise in regeneration development, we enter 2015 strongly 
positioned to continue to deliver enhanced shareholder value. 
Finally, my thanks to our management team and staff who have 
continued to apply themselves wholeheartedly and with the utmost 
professionalism, to create the significant value that we have achieved 
this year and that we believe we will continue to achieve in the future. 
David Jenkins
Chairman
29th April 2015
Financial performance
This has been an excellent year for your Company in which the 
successful execution of our strategic objectives has produced a 
step-change in the level of performance. I am delighted to report a 
headline profit before tax of £45.4 million for the year ended 28th 
February 2015 (2014: £19.5 million), the highest profit ever recorded 
by your Company. After exceptional items* of £10.6 million, the profit 
before tax amounted to £34.8 million. The main contributor to our 
overall profitability was the £45.7 million of development and trading 
gains realised from a number of asset disposals during the year 
(2014: £27.0 million), another record-level result for the business. 
After the deduction of £17.0 million by way of dividends, including 
the special dividend, shareholders’ funds increased by £26.1 million 
(8.1 per cent) to £346.4 million from £320.3 million as at 
28th February 2014. Net assets per share ended the year  
at 276 pence per share compared to 262 pence per share  
at 28th February 2014.
Our level of net debt, excluding our share of debt within joint ventures, 
remained low at 36.3 per cent compared with 48.0 per cent at 
28th February 2014. Given the strength and stability of our Balance 
Sheet and our prudent business model, the Board has recommended 
the payment of a final dividend for the year of 3.5 pence per share, 
payable on 20th August 2015 to shareholders on the register on 
24th July 2015. Including the special dividend paid on 7th April 2015, 
this final dividend will bring the total dividends paid during the year 
to 13.9 pence per share, more than double the amount paid in the 
previous year.
The special dividend of £10.0 million (8.0 pence per share) was paid 
out of both the strong cash flow arising from a number of land and 
asset sales, and from the successful monetisation of one of our 
remaining significant legacy assets, 399 Edgware Road. Going 
forward we will continue to review the efficiency of our Balance 
Sheet in order to maintain a disciplined capital structure and 
maximise returns to shareholders. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
A YEAR OF 
RECORD-LEVEL 
PERFORMANCE
* exceptional non-recurring items relate to termination of cross currency swap and acquisition 
costs of Cathedral Group.
12
Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015 David Jenkins, Chairman
Read biography on page 70
Go to page 69 to read the Chairman’s 
introduction to Corporate Governance
13
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Development Securities PLC Annual Report 2015
