 2 Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2012
Chairman’s Statement
On track to achieve our 
strategic objectives
With demonstrable progress and significant activity 
achieved during the period, I am pleased to report that 
your Company is on track to achieve its strategic 
objectives: creating value and growth through real estate 
development and asset transformation in sectors and 
locations in the UK where demand is in evidence. The 
impact of this progress in financial terms is yet to be 
captured in our results and we report a loss before tax 
of £10.2 million for the 14 months ended 29th February 
2012, as compared to a profit before tax of £2.6 million 
for the year ended 31st December 2010. Shareholders’ 
funds declined accordingly to £313.2 million from £333.1 
million at the end of 2010. Net assets per share ended 
the period at 256 pence per share, compared to 272 
pence per share at 31st December 2010.
 Given our balance sheet strength and the emerging 
and likely success of our business plan, the Board has 
recommended the payment of a final dividend for the 
period of 3.2 pence per share payable on 26th October 
2012 to shareholders on the register on 28th September 
2012. This brings the total dividend payment for the 
14-month period to 5.6 pence, equivalent to that paid 
for the previous twelve months.
 The main contributory factors to the loss before tax 
were a charge of £4.7 million arising from a small 
downturn in the valuation of our £237.9 million investment 
portfolio and an impairment provision of £2.8 million 
in respect of our small serviced office division. Asset 
realisations from our development and trading portfolio 
have begun to benefit our earnings statement and setting 
aside revaluation movements and the impairment 
provision, we broke even in the eight months to 29th 
February 2012; we anticipate a stronger impact as more 
assets are realised from our active value creation strategy. 
The net asset decline of £19.9 million over the 14 months 
reflects the loss before tax of £10.2 million, together with 
the dividend of £5.9 million paid to shareholders and a 
provision of £4.3 million arising from the mark-to-market 
impact of a long-term fixed rate loan, the impact of which 
will unwind over the term of this financing. 
Developing value
As you will be aware, in July 2010, we completed the 
second of two step changes in the size of your Company 
when we raised equity of £100 million, the same 
amount as raised twelve months previously. We set out 
to invest the proceeds of this fresh equity in real estate 
opportunities through which we could apply our 
development expertise to realise gains through 
repositioning and redeveloping secondary assets into 
the prime or near-prime market. The majority of these 
funds has now been invested into the property market 
in more than 40 separate transactions. It is from these 
transactions and others that we intend will follow in the 
near-term, that significant value will be added for our 
shareholders. The business case for our two approaches 
to shareholders for further funds was based on our 
assessment that the banking sector would not be able 
to provide the liquidity essential for a fully functioning 
property market for some time and that equity would 
therefore command a powerful position in deal 
negotiations. We anticipated that this restriction on 
the markets would continue for some time, thus allowing 
us to execute our individual asset business plans and 
recycle some of the proceeds back into a still illiquid 
marketplace for a further round of profitable 
opportunities. Our assessment was that the average 
asset business plan would take just over three years 
to execute and generate realised gains and that is a 
view to which we adhere today. 
 Accordingly, at 29th February 2012, with 32 months 
passed since our first equity raise in July 2009, we are 
now beginning to realise gains on these newly acquired 
assets. It is pleasing to note that not only have some 
gains been realised ahead of time but also that the 
quantum of the gains realised on assets where exits have 
been secured, has been in line or ahead of their individual 
business plans.
 This progress is reported against a backdrop of 
ongoing and much reported difficulties in the European 
banking sector which have exacerbated the continuing 
economic uncertainties in both the UK and in Continental 
Europe. In addition, the eurozone fiscal crisis has not only 
reduced the demand for UK exports to that region, but 
has also restricted the banks’ access to funds for lending 
to businesses and perhaps above all, undermined 
business confidence. Whilst the UK Government appears 
to have a credible strategy for its own necessary fiscal 
consolidation, a return to sustained growth will also need a 
resolution to the eurozone crisis as an important precursor. 
Meanwhile, it seems that the best the UK economy can 
David Jenkins 
Chairman
Creating value and growth through 
real estate regeneration and 
asset transformation in the UK, 
in locations and sectors where 
demand is in evidence Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2012 3
hope for in the near-term is a more or less sideways 
movement in GDP performance – effectively, stagnation.
 In the investment property markets, 201 1 was 
characterised by an increasing flow of overseas funds 
into Central London’s prime office and residential 
markets. The financial and political turmoil in various 
parts of the world caused a significant flow of funds into 
the Sterling-denominated Central London property 
markets, to some extent seeking a safe haven from the 
perceived risks elsewhere and only tentatively based on 
property fundamentals. The secondary property market 
continued to languish and, indeed, in the final few months 
of the period under review, values declined slightly. 
This was largely a result of prospects for rental 
growth continuing to recede and the flight to quality 
strengthening amidst increasing uncertainty in the 
eurozone and continuing concerns over the weakness of 
the UK economy. For the first time in over a decade our 
performance was less than that of the IPD UK Monthly 
Property Index. The largest contribution to our 4.2 per 
cent underperformance was the insolvency at Peacocks 
in February 2012. We believe that the prime markets of 
Central London will ease back and the secondary 
markets will recover lost ground in the near- to 
medium-term.
 It is our view that the UK needs a vigorous 
regeneration of its redundant and derelict real estate 
assets into prime or near-prime investments servicing 
those areas of the economy which still retain an element 
of demand strength; effectively, changing functional 
obsolescence into functional strength. Accordingly, at 
this stage in the economic cycle, we do not see a strong 
demand for large-scale office development in our 
country’s major conurbations, including Central London. 
That demand must largely await a recovery in GDP growth 
both domestic and international. It is our continued belief 
that, in an economy with virtually no upward and possibly 
some downward momentum, the opportunity to create 
growth in our industry will rely on the value-added 
component that can be generated through repositioning 
real estate into areas of demand. We will continue to 
pursue this strategy as and until the wide arbitrage 
between secondary and prime yields begins to narrow 
significantly. The alternative approach of expanding our 
investment portfolio does not hold attractions for us at 
this stage of the economic cycle. Whilst that strategy 
might offer a more stable income base for us, it offers 
little in the way of significant capital growth. Our skills as 
a developer have naturally led us into our current area 
of activity that relies on a detailed and technical 
understanding of real estate fundamentals in which we 
are accomplished and confident. We believe that the 
successes now emerging from within our development 
and trading portfolio are evidence of our strategy coming 
to fruition. Of course, our Group policy of maintaining a 
moderate level of gearing offsets, to a large extent, the 
risks associated with our development and trading 
property assets that are either nil or low income yielding.
Outlook
The yield curve is indicating that interest rates will remain 
at current minimal levels for some considerable amount 
of time and we would not disagree. Current fiscal policy, 
together with further rounds of quantitative easing, are 
helping to support asset values and we believe will 
continue to do so. Of course, at some time, one would 
anticipate interest rates returning to long-term trend but 
that will probably need to await a perceived recovery in 
the UK’s economic performance. When that re-rating of 
the cost of money does occur, it may impact negatively on 
property values since the perceived offset of increased 
rental growth will take several years to work through 
the cash flows attaching to individual assets. We expect 
the banking groups to continue to gradually reduce 
their exposure to real estate in a way that does not 
significantly impact on property values. In that regard, 
they will be consistent with their policy of recent years 
of not unduly disturbing current market equilibrium.
Conclusion
After nearly nine years of sterling service on behalf 
of your Company, both Victoria Mitchell and Michael 
Soames will be stepping down from the Board at this 
year’s Annual General Meeting. On your behalf, I would 
like sincerely to thank both of these Non-executive 
Directors for their valuable contribution to our 
deliberations and for their resolute efforts and 
commitment in support of the progress we have made.  
I would also like to welcome our new Non-executive 
Board member, Nick Thomlinson, senior partner and 
Chairman of the Knight Frank Group, who joined the 
Board on 3rd January 2012 and brings with him 
significant expertise and experience derived from 
a lengthy career in the property industry. 
 The period under review has seen an enormous 
effort from the management and staff at Development 
Securities PLC in deploying equity and debt into the 
market across a multitude of sometimes very complicated 
transactions, and implementing our strategy for each 
either in joint venture or on our own account. I would like 
to place on record my thanks for their commitment, 
professionalism and teamwork in a challenging market 
where credibility, track record and brand strength have 
played such an important role.
David Jenkins
Chairman
1st May 2012
annualreport2012. 
developmentsecurities.com/
chairmans-statement
Chairman’s Statement
