 4 Development Securities PLC 
Performance
After the payment of £5.9 million by way of dividends, shareholders’ funds 
increased by £13.6 million to £320.3 million from £306.7 million as at 
28th February 2013. Net assets per share ended the year at 262 pence  
per share compared to 251 pence per share at 28th February 2013.
Our level of net debt, excluding our share of debt within joint ventures, 
remained low at 48.0 per cent compared with 47.9 per cent at 28th 
February 2013. Given the strength and stability of our Balance Sheet and 
our prudent business model, the Board has recommended the payment of  
a final dividend for the year of 3.2 pence per share, payable on 22nd August 
2014 to shareholders on the register on 25th July 2014. This payment will 
bring the total dividend for the year to 5.6 pence per share, an increase of 
16.7 per cent on the previous year.
The year was characterised by a high level of activity across our 
business as we continued to progress our strategy of creating value through 
regeneration. Within our development and trading portfolio, we generated 
further strong gains, with profits of £27.0 million realised in the year ended 
28th February 2014 (28th February 2013: £28.1 million). It was also 
pleasing to note that our investment portfolio including our share of joint 
ventures increased in value by £4.8 million as compared to the fall of 
£12.8 million in the previous year, and we expect this performance to 
improve further. In addition, we have made good progress within our major 
developments programme, with notable activity on the edge of Central 
London. 12 Hammersmith Grove, Algarve House in Southwark and a further 
site in Central London on which we have exchanged conditional contracts, 
all present significant opportunities that build on our track record in 
delivering high quality commercial-led, mixed-use developments. 
Outlook
If the present track of the UK economy proves to be sustainable, we would 
expect to see an increased level of development activity in the market place 
as vacancy rates fall further and business confidence grows to ensure that 
real estate retains its attraction to available UK and global liquidity. The 
future delivery from our project pipeline is playing into the momentum of a 
recovery in the UK economy. Against this backdrop, your Company will 
continue to search out regeneration opportunities in markets where we see 
both current and emerging demand and where we have development 
expertise and a position of strength. In addition, we will continue to search 
out further opportunities from within the financial sector, as banks further 
reduce their exposure to real estate. 
Property development and investment is a complex process that 
requires high levels of professionalism and expertise. My colleagues, the 
management team and staff at Development Securities have continued to 
work hard and I would like to thank them for their efforts, especially as our 
level of activity intensifies. As ever, we will continue to manage our activities 
with the appropriate level of caution and risk management. We are 
well-positioned to capitalise on further opportunities as the cycle continues 
to turn in our favour.
David Jenkins
Chairman
30th April 2014
Chairman’s Statement
On track to achieve  
our strategic objectives 
I am pleased to report a strong set of results for your 
Company, with a profit before tax of £19.5 million 
for the year ended 28th February 2014, a significant 
improvement from the profit before tax of 
£0.8 million for the previous financial year.
—
David Jenkins, Chairman
