 14
Devro plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report 
We entered 2015 with three main areas 
of focus for the executive team: to 
develop our market position; to 
complete the restructuring of our 
operations in Scotland and Australia; 
and to maintain momentum on the 
implementation of our major investment 
projects in the USA and China.
In tough market conditions, overall 
volumes of casings sold increased, most 
notably in key markets such as Japan, 
North America and South East Asia, and 
many key accounts have been retained 
elsewhere in the face of strong 
competing offers. Sales of co-extrusion 
gel in North America continued to grow 
well and the acquisition of PV Industries 
has now firmly established Devro as the 
market leader for gel in Europe as well.
As part of our restructuring we took  
out capacity of older, less efficient 
technology at one of our factories in 
Scotland, which was an important step 
in aligning our product portfolio with 
market opportunities. In Australia we 
initiated the outsourcing of hide 
preparation operations. There was some 
disruption as we worked through the 
planned actions, but I am pleased to 
report that we have delivered 
annualised cost savings of £5.8 million, 
slightly ahead of the targeted amount.
In the USA and China we are 
undertaking two strategic investment 
projects to build new plants in these 
locations. It has been challenging to 
support two such significant projects  
in parallel, but we have made good 
progress this year and the projects 
remain on track for completion as 
planned in 2016.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Operating profit before exceptional 
items was £33.3 million (2014: £30.3 
million), representing 10% growth over 
2014, primarily relating to the delivery  
of cost savings from the restructuring 
actions. Profits would have increased 
more had it not been for adverse foreign 
exchange movements of £2.1 million 
(2014: adverse of £4.3 million). Whilst I 
am pleased with the growth in profits, 
there is clearly more to do on sales and 
this will be an area of focus for 2016.
A more complete explanation of the 
financial performance for the year, 
including a breakdown of the £14.1 million 
of exceptional items, is set out in the 
Financial Review on pages 18 to 21. 
IN 2015, OVERALL VOLUMES  
OF CASINGS SOLD INCREASED, 
MOST NOTABLY IN KEY MARKETS 
SUCH AS JAPAN, NORTH AMERICA 
AND SOUTH EAST ASIA.
The construction and launch of the new  
plants in the USA and China are central  
to the transformation of the manufacturing 
footprint for the group. 
Chairman’s Statement 15
Devro plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report Strategic Report 
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS
The construction and launch of the  
new plants in the USA and China are 
central to the transformation of the 
manufacturing footprint for the group. 
The new factory in the USA will improve 
manufacturing efficiency by establishing 
an advanced technology production 
facility. This will enable us to largely 
decommission the existing plant, which 
has continued to underperform in 2015 
as it reaches the end of its useful 
economic life. 
As previously indicated we expect  
an additional contribution to annual 
operating profit of £8 million from this 
USA investment, with the benefits 
starting mid-2016. A key component  
of this improvement will be the 
decommissioning of the old production 
lines, and the realisation of the 
associated cost savings. 
In China the new plant will establish a 
manufacturing presence in the world’s 
largest collagen casing market, adding 
capacity to support future sales growth. 
The new factory continues to progress 
well, with construction now complete 
and commissioning of the newly-
installed equipment due to commence 
in the first half of 2016. Demand for 
premium products has continued to 
increase in China during 2015, despite 
the overall market in China declining, 
reflecting the ongoing development  
and segmentation of the market. 
BOARD
As announced last year, Simon Webb, 
Group Finance Director, will retire in 
March 2016. The Board sincerely thanks 
Simon for his significant contribution to 
the business over the past five years. 
Rutger Helbing will join us as Group 
Finance Director on 4 April 2016.
EMPLOYEES
Devro’s success is built upon the 
commitment of our employees. 
Supporting two major projects in 
parallel has tested this commitment and 
has significantly stretched our global 
resources. I have been impressed by the 
way our employees have stepped up 
and delivered at this critical time. On 
behalf of the whole Board, I would like 
to thank all of our employees for their 
contribution across our business. 
2016 will be another important year  
as we complete the fundamental 
transformation of the manufacturing 
footprint of our business. To be 
successful we will again need to call 
upon the dedication and experience of 
our employees, but I am confident that 
the team will rise to the challenge.
I would like to take this opportunity  
to acknowledge the large number of 
employees leaving the business as part 
of the transition to more efficient 
manufacturing technology. I am very 
grateful for the professionalism they 
have demonstrated throughout the 
transformation and wish them well for 
the future.
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing to maintain  
the final dividend at 6.1p per share 
(2014: 6.1p) bringing the total for the 
year to 8.8p per share (2014: 8.8p). 
Subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in 
April, the dividend will be paid on 
13 May 2016, to those on the register  
at 29 March 2016.
RETURN ON INVESTMENTS
With our transformation programme 
nearing completion we must now 
demonstrate a return on the £110 million 
in capital investments we have made 
over the past three years. 2016 will be 
the year in which we start to see this 
return reflected in our profits with the 
new plant in the USA completing in the 
first half. Additional profit growth will 
follow in 2017 from the new plant in 
China, enabling us to increase capacity 
and support further revenue growth.
2016 is an important year for Devro 
given the complexities of starting up 
two new factories, but with the detailed 
planning in place we are on course to 
develop into the most advanced 
collagen casings company in the world. 
Devro will then be well placed to benefit 
from a dynamic and expanding global 
market, to create long-term value for 
our shareholders.
Gerard Hoetmer
Chairman
