 16
Devro plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report 
2015 WAS A YEAR OF NOTABLE  
PROGRESS FOR DEVRO.
Our three-year transformation programme,  
to ensure that the business has high-tech 
manufacturing assets capable of supplying 
future demand, progressed well and will  
complete in 2016. 
Chief Executive’s Review
SUMMARY
2015 was a year of notable progress for 
Devro, with sales volumes growing in a 
number of key markets, the completion 
of two restructuring programmes 
resulting in substantial cost reductions, 
significant progress in our investment 
projects in the USA and China and the 
acquisition of a specialist European 
collagen gel business. 
Our three-year transformation 
programme, to ensure that the business 
has high-tech manufacturing assets 
capable of supplying future demand, 
progressed well and will complete in 2016. 
MARKETS OVERVIEW
Devro supplies collagen casings, films 
and gel to a worldwide market that has 
long-term volume growth averaging 
3-4% per year. Growth comes from the 
global trend towards urban living and 
rising levels of disposable income, with 
related increases in protein consumption, 
as well as the expansion of high-tech 
food manufacturing processes, which 
tend to use collagen casings.
In 2015, many regions reported volume 
growth, with an estimated global 
increase of 3% excluding China. Growth 
areas include meat-based snacks in the 
USA, snacks and confectionery in Japan 
and rising consumption in several South 
East Asian markets. After several years 
of remarkable growth, the total market 
in China contracted in 2015 due to a 
combination of economic and industry 
factors; however the premium casings 
segment continued to grow. Production 
of meat products in Russia declined in 
the earlier part of the year, as a result of 
economic, political and currency issues.
STRATEGY
Devro’s three-part strategy focuses  
on revenue growth, manufacturing 
efficiency and product differentiation. 
The business made good progress in all 
three elements during 2015.
Revenue growth
Devro’s sales volumes grew 1% in 2015. 
Strong increases were reported for the 
first half of the year, which were partially 
offset in the second half by declines  
in some markets, in part related to  
local economic factors but also short-
term capacity constraints linked to  
the transformation of our  
manufacturing footprint. 17
Devro plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report Strategic Report 
Sales volume growth remained strong  
in Japan (7%), particularly in the snack 
and confectionery sector. Volumes 
across South East Asia increased 13%  
as capacity from the recently-expanded 
Czech and Australian plants enabled 
higher levels of supply. Latin America 
sales volumes, excluding Brazil, 
increased 5% having benefited from the 
launch of recently developed products.
Growth continued in the major markets 
of Continental EU and North America, 
with both markets increasing sales 
volumes by 3%. Volumes were broadly 
maintained in the mature and 
established markets of the UK and 
Australia, as well as in China where 
Devro sales were moderately 
constrained in the short-term by 
available capacity.
Russia and surrounding markets  
were affected by the geopolitical and 
economic factors, leading to a 16% sales 
volume decrease for Devro. Sales to 
Brazil, where prices are generally lower, 
were constrained by supply.
Demand for collagen gel in the 
manufacturing of large volume brands 
in the USA and Europe continues to 
grow as major food manufacturers  
make significant capital investments  
in co-extrusion technology to reduce 
operating costs.
Manufacturing efficiency
Input costs reduced in 2015, due to an 
improved market for hides and the 
benefits of lower energy costs passing 
through the global supply chain. 
The Czech operation ran at full capacity, 
benefiting from the high levels of 
investment we have undertaken  
since 2005.
The businesses in Scotland and  
Australia both completed substantial 
restructuring projects to reduce 
overhead costs whilst at the same time 
maintaining full operating activities.  
This proved challenging, particularly in 
the first half, but over the course of the 
year annualised cost savings of £5.8 
million were successfully realised, 
slightly ahead of expectations.
Over the three years from 2014-2016, 
Devro has been restructuring its 
manufacturing operations worldwide  
in order to have lower cost capacity 
located to supply both established  
and emerging markets with competitive 
products. From a total of 2,200 
employees in 2014, 350 roles in higher-
cost locations in the USA, the UK and 
Australia have become redundant,  
whilst 180 roles have been created at  
a new plant in China. This change  
reflects the scale of the cost reduction 
and reorganisation that has been 
undertaken at the same time that 
capacity is being increased.
In the USA construction and 
commissioning of the new £50 million 
plant in South Carolina is now 
approaching completion. The old USA 
plant saw its last full year of production 
in 2015. The permanent shutdown of the 
old, inefficient capacity commenced in 
December 2015, and will complete in the 
first half of 2016, as customers are 
transferred to enhanced products from 
the USA and Europe. Once the dual-
running of the old and new capacity 
ceases during 2016, the expected annual 
cost saving of £8 million will start to  
be realised.
In China, construction of a £60 million 
new plant in Jiangsu province was 
completed. Commissioning will run 
through the first half of 2016, with 
commercial production due to 
commence during the second half.  
This plant represents the first stage  
of an investment to supply directly  
into the world’s largest market for 
collagen casings.
Start-up of the new plants involves a 
large amount of specialist input and 
fine-tuning to achieve efficient output. 
In view of the scale of both projects, this 
will require significant input from all 
parts of the business during 2016.
Product differentiation
Effective research and development is 
key to product differentiation. During 
2015 the priority for development was  
to ensure that products coming from 
the new capacity will be effective 
replacements of predecessors and, 
where possible, will provide enhanced 
performance to customers. 
A single group research team is now 
established, with appropriate expertise 
recruited and a range of collaborative 
external research projects now starting 
to extend knowledge and opportunities.
The acquisition of PV Industries B.V.,  
a specialist European collagen gel 
business, has provided Devro with access 
to a strong technical skills base and an 
innovative and developing product 
portfolio. This will further strengthen our 
ability to differentiate our products and 
enhance value for customers.
OUTLOOK
For current trading, some markets  
are positive and providing good 
opportunities for growth, whilst others 
face continuing economic and political 
pressures that limit demand. In China, 
Devro continues to pursue the strategy 
of supplying differentiated products for 
the premium sector, which is growing, 
whereas in the standard casings sector 
there has been a contraction in volumes 
recently along with high levels of 
availability leading to price erosion. 
For Devro in 2016, it is the timely and 
efficient commissioning of our new 
plants that will most significantly 
contribute to improved profitability  
and, whilst we anticipate inevitable 
challenges in this phase, we are confident 
in the ability of our local management 
teams to reach successful conclusions.
Our transformation will complete in 
2016, after which Devro will be well 
positioned to supply all of our markets 
with competitive products from efficient 
manufacturing operations. The benefits 
from this transformation will begin to 
flow through to profits in 2016 and the 
long term growth prospects are strong.
Peter Page
Chief Executive
