 4 Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2012
Chief Executive’s Statement
Creating value in spite 
of a weak economy
Looking at the IPD All Property Returns for 201 1, one 
might be forgiven for thinking that nothing much has 
happened in the property sector. Capital returns were 
low over the period, as was rental growth. Given that UK 
GDP growth across the same period was also negligible, 
it should not surprise us that the key property return 
indicators reflected a period of economic stagnation. The 
UK economy is seemingly bound hand and foot by global 
events, from the pressures within the eurozone, to the 
banking crisis across most of Europe, geopolitical tensions 
and rising commodity prices. To the extent that it has been 
able, the UK Government has responded with several 
rounds of quantitative easing, continuing the policy of 
maintaining minimal interest rates at a level to sustain 
both economic activity and asset values and of course 
reducing government expenditure to lower debt levels.
 Within this environment, the challenge for our 
industry remains how value can be created. The course 
we set ourselves in 2009, before our first equity raise of 
£100 million in July of that year, was to create capital 
value by the selective acquisition of secondary assets 
which had the potential to be repositioned or redeveloped 
into prime or near-prime assets rather than purely collect 
income return. The equity raised has allowed us to 
engage in such an investment strategy within a market 
where the value of equity has been amplified by 
significant constraints on the banks’ ability to generate 
liquidity. For the most part, we have acquired these 
assets from third parties who, for one reason or another, 
are under financial pressure and/or lack the expertise 
to resolve progress on a particular asset or portfolio of 
assets. The severe economic downturn in our sector 
followed the pattern of previous cycles when the upswing 
in property values after the crash was led by prime real 
estate, with secondary real estate also improving in value 
but nowhere near to the same extent. Accordingly, the 
yield differential between secondary and prime property 
has widened considerably. This yield differential provides 
us with a generous margin within which to trade and 
effectively exploit the arbitrage opportunity that the 
market presents by transforming assets from secondary 
to prime. This is precisely where we have placed the 
majority of our new equity funds. 
 Our initial view was that it would take an average 
period of some three to four years to deliver a profitable 
exit from each of the new investments we had made and 
were likely to make. It was clear, therefore, that patience 
would be required before we would be able to deliver the 
full returns we were seeking. Nevertheless, for the period 
under review, some of the projects have already been 
brought to fruition. More will be delivered in the near-term 
with progress made across several projects to 
significantly advance their individual business plans. 
In recent months we have achieved planning success in 
six projects and in some instances, have also been able 
to secure the exit.
 We have now invested in over 40 projects in a period 
of just over two years, an unprecedented deal flow for the 
business. This has enabled us to diversify specific asset 
risk, thus reducing our exposure to any one particular project.
 At least 50.0 per cent of these acquisitions were 
secured to benefit from planning gain. In a weak 
economy, the process of granting planning consents 
continues almost regardless of the difficulties besetting 
the economy and surrounding circumstances. Indeed, 
one could argue that a recession or stagnation is positive 
for the planning process since it encourages local 
authorities to allow schemes to come forward more 
rapidly in order that appropriate regeneration, economic 
stimulation and job creation can occur. To date, this 
seems to have been the case on the schemes on which 
we are working. 
 The difficulties of the banking sector have been 
subject to much comment and there is still clearly a need 
for the banks operating in the UK to significantly reduce 
their exposure to real estate lending before they can 
consider any serious volume of new loan originations. 
Since early 2009, net new commercial property lending 
has been below zero and we anticipate this will continue 
for some years until total loan exposure to our sector has 
been significantly reduced from present levels. Whilst, 
against this trend, the Group has been able to raise new 
bank debt on our own balance sheet, we have given 
consideration to the extent that limited bank lending 
might impact on our property exit strategies. 
Given that we are aiming to sell to prime or near-prime 
participants, we have focussed our investments in areas 
of relative wealth, prosperity and hence liquidity within 
the UK. An analysis of the assets acquired since July 
2009 reveals a concentration in Greater London, the 
South East and South West of England, as well as 
Our identified strategy is starting 
to deliver its anticipated returns
Michael Marx 
Chief Executive Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2012 5
supply/demand imbalance with respect to prime office 
stock, will offer a more realistic opportunity for 
commercial office development. In Hammersmith, we 
recently broke ground at our 275,000 sq. ft. prime office 
development in partnership with Scottish Widows 
Investment Property Partnership Trust. Our next phase 
at PaddingtonCentral, of 140,000 sq. ft. net, is a similar 
opportunity, both in terms of size and location.
 The current economic slowdown has significantly 
impacted the serviced office sector in the UK, where we 
are represented by Executive Communication Centres 
(ECC), our wholly owned subsidiary that operates out of 
seven locations across the UK. Its profitability has been 
squeezed considerably by the impact of declining 
short-term income on one hand and the fixed, 
longer-term nature of its own rental obligations to its 
various landlords on the other. Since recovery of its 
margins is likely to be a slow and uncertain process, 
we have made a £2.8 million provision this year for 
impairment of its fixed assets and the resultant 
onerous leases of certain of the properties from 
which ECC trades.
 It is now likely that the real estate sector will find it 
challenging to demonstrate value gains in a low growth, 
largely sideways-moving economy, with the ever present 
threat that, at some stage, interest rates begin to rise 
thus potentially undermining an element of property 
value in the near-  to medium-term. Our identified 
strategy of driving capital growth through real estate 
regeneration is starting to deliver its anticipated 
returns. We believe that this strategy, reliant as it is on 
development expertise and a unique access to complex 
parts of the market, will allow us to navigate these 
difficult times and emerge with significant value growth 
for our shareholders.
Michael Marx 
Chief Executive
1st May 2012
Manchester. With regard to sectors, we have recognised 
the continuing demand for foodstores, retail schemes 
around foodstores, selected residential and student 
accommodation and, in certain locations, hotels. 
 A broad analysis of the planned disposals indicates 
that approximately one-third is targeted at institutional 
investors, one-third at housebuilders and one-third at 
the wider investor market. The institutional purchasers 
require little or no bank leverage and the housebuilding 
sector is now benefiting from restructured balance 
sheets and fresh bank facilities urged on by government 
policy. Even the final sector mentioned, the wider investor 
market, is willing to acquire good secondary assets 
sometimes with cash and sometimes with bank facilities, 
albeit at a significantly lower level of gearing than would 
have been achieved prior to 2007.
 The strategy we have set ourselves cannot be 
pursued by all market participants, not only because it 
requires a significant level of development expertise, but 
also because it generally involves smaller rather than 
large-scale development. Accordingly, those substantial 
domestic and global real estate funds that are seeking 
further exposure to the real estate markets in the UK 
are unable to easily access this part of the marketplace. 
They are, however, willing to partner with real estate 
businesses, such as ourselves, who have the expertise, 
brand strength and transparency that a publicly listed 
company provides, as well as the local knowledge that 
goes with being a UK specific developer. We have 
already entered into a number of partnership agreements 
with real estate funds and would anticipate more being 
concluded in the medium-term. 
 As shareholders will be aware, the overwhelming 
majority of our recent transactions have been outside 
Central London. Whilst large-scale office development in 
the City and the West End has been an important part of 
our traditional business model, market conditions have 
now militated against such development opportunities. 
For one thing, the surge of overseas investment into 
Central London offices has driven values to a point at 
which it is difficult for us to justify development risk. 
Whilst we have noted the declining vacancy rates in both 
the City and the West End markets, our concern in the 
last few years has been that demand may be constrained 
by lack of GDP growth, the continuing uncertainty that 
attaches to the current European economy, further 
redundancies in the financial services sector and 
improved occupational efficiencies. These difficulties are 
now becoming more apparent and will ultimately need to 
be resolved before further major office development can 
prudently commence. Until then, pre-lets will be hard to 
come by, bank loans difficult to secure and equity 
reluctant to come forward to take the associated risks. 
In the meantime, it is our view that selected business 
districts in London, where there is a marked 
annualreport2012. 
developmentsecurities.com/ 
CEO-statement
Chief Executive’s Statement
