  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
David Jenkins 
Chairman 
We believe that those property 
businesses such as ourselves with 
equity able to invest in the near-term 
into the markets should be able 
to transact at favourable levels 
of return. 
I am pleased to be able to 
report a further signifi cant 
improvement in the fortunes 
of your Company in 2010. 
We achieved a proﬁt before tax of £2.6 million as compared 
to a loss before tax of £11.4 million for the previous year. 
No less signiﬁcantly, shareholders’ funds beneﬁted from 
the £100.2 million issue of new equity during the year, 
ending the year at £333.1 million, an increase of 
£89.1 million compared with the position at the end of 
2009. Net assets per share ended the year at 272 pence, 
compared to 297 pence at the end of 2009 and 270 
pence immediately following the share issue. 
It is pleasing to be able to report in a period of 
considerable economic uncertainty and with subdued 
forecasts for economic growth in both the near and 
medium-term, that Development Securities has been able 
to grow its business so substantially. This could not have 
been done without shareholder support and we remain 
grateful for the conﬁdence you have shown in us. 
Strategically, we have maintained a consistent business 
model over the last 15 years or so, especially with regard 
to the management of our risk proﬁle. It was this prudent 
strategy that enabled the business to survive the acute 
stresses of recent years. On the other hand, there 
have been recent tactical changes in our approach to 
Adapting to current 

market conditions
 
to improve returns
 
the market which we believe will assist us in capturing 
improved returns. 
Given our enhanced ﬁnancial strength and stability, 
the Board has recommended the payment of a ﬁnal 
dividend for the year of 2.4 pence per share payable on 
6th July 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3rd June 
2011. This brings the total dividend payment for the year 
to 4.8 pence per share, equivalent to that paid in respect 
of the previous year. 
The ﬁrst step change in the level of our business 
occurred when we raised equity of £100.0 million in July 
2009, which subsequently proved to be the low point of 
the real estate markets. As we had intended, we have now 
deployed this capital into the market, together with 
appropriate leverage where applicable and none of it was 
utilised to pay down debt. Since July 2009, the Investment 
Property Databank Index (IPD) had shown a recovery in 
capital values of 8.8 per cent to December 2009. The 
increase of this Index in calendar 2010 was 8.3 per cent. 
Accordingly, by the end of the year, the markets which had 
fallen originally by some 44 per cent from their peak in 
2007 had recovered 18.1 per cent from that low point. 
The second recent step change occurred twelve 
months later with our next equity raise of £100.2 million in 
July 2010. The proposition this time was different; we had 
identiﬁed early in 2010 that the recovery in the banking 
sector was likely to be a long and drawn out process and 
that, until the banks’ balance sheets, capital ratios and 
reserves were properly reinstated, there would be a 
continuing reluctance of the banks to advance fresh capital 
to the real estate sector. Indeed, subsequent events have 
borne this out and it is noticeable that, probably for the ﬁrst 
time, the amount of net new bank lending to the property 
sector has been negative for six consecutive quarters. 
Notwithstanding this withdrawal of capital, the proportion 
of commercial property loans to the total loan books of the 
banks is still uncomfortably high and we anticipate that 
the banks’ relative inability to provide fresh capital to 
the market will continue well into the medium-term. 
Accordingly, we believe that those property businesses 
such as ourselves with equity able to invest in the near-
term into the markets should be able to transact at 
favourable levels of return. 
There are still clouds on the horizon, however. The 
austerity programme now being introduced in the UK will 
have an impact which is not easy to predict. Increased 
levels of taxation, both direct and indirect, together with 
signiﬁcant reductions in Government expenditure are likely 
to reduce domestic consumption and encourage the 
restoration of savings levels as the consumer battles to 
survive the storm. Unsurprisingly, these current difﬁculties 
2 Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2010   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
ww7 .investorrelations.co.uk/devsec/ar10/ 
chairmans-statement 
are also adversely affecting levels of business conﬁdence 
and are likely to continue to do so until the way ahead has 
greater clarity. Rental growth in the occupational markets 
has reduced by some 15.1 per cent over the last three 
years and whilst that fall appears now to have levelled out, 
it will likely take many years before any signiﬁcant rental 
growth reappears. 
I am pleased to report that our IPD investment 
portfolio performance for 2010 equalled that of the IPD 
UK Quarterly Property Index for that year notwithstanding 
that our portfolio of real estate investments does not 
include any element of Central London weighting. Whilst 
it was clear that Central London was the sector with 
the strongest capital and rental growth during 2010, our 
more than acceptable comparative performance to the 
benchmark conﬁrms our long-held contention that, in 
current market conditions, terms of trade in the secondary 
markets have moved towards those with appropriate 
expertise and capital. We expect this to continue. The 
valuation uplifts in our Balance Sheet of course take no 
account of improvements in the development and trading 
portfolios, which are reported only on ultimate sale. 2010 
saw us continue with our strategy of focusing our 
investment portfolio on property assets that represent a 
mix of core defensive income and asset management 
initiatives. We have no present plans to change this 
approach. We do, however, have a considerable amount of 
equity remaining available in cash to invest into the 
marketplace as and when suitable opportunities arise and 
we remain alert to allocate this capital into a market which 
is likely to remain constrained of cash for some time.
 Active development on a substantial scale is 
normally seen in the second half of an economic cycle 
when demand for retail and ofﬁce accommodation is 
strengthening, vacancy rates are falling and capital 
availability is expanding. It is therefore unsurprising that we 
have not been recently engaged in any major development 
activity in the UK’s largest cities although we continue to 
seek out sites that could represent proﬁtable developments 
for future years. On the other hand, the rapid recovery in 
rental values in the City of London together with both a 
perception of reduced supply and the weight of inward 
investment have conspired to raise values of prime 
development sites to levels which would appear to be hard 
to justify in such an early stage of the current economic 
cycle. Whilst we continue to pursue opportunities in this 
particular market, we are apprehensive both with regard to 
the underlying strength of demand and also the quantum 
of supply that may be brought to the market in the medium-
term. We suspect that the City of London will remain a 
market for those with deep pockets and a longer-term 
investment horizon. 
Outlook 
Monetary policy is hard to predict, perhaps even by those 
who pull the levers, but we do anticipate that interest rates 
will remain at minimal levels for some time yet to come. It 
is quite likely that both the Government and the Bank of 
England will seek to maintain interest rates at around 
current levels as and until stronger economic growth in the 
UK is initiated. To date, the two major domestic UK banking 
groups with signiﬁcant government equity ownership have 
only gradually released troubled loans and foreclosed real 
estate into the market and it is arguable this has had 
minimal impact on pricing such has been the strength of 
investor demand for product. It would appear that these 
UK banking groups have now realised the value from the 
larger, better located and better let properties and that the 
next few years will see them work harder to maintain the 
same level of capital release from smaller loans. It perhaps 
follows that the next tranche of loans to be realised by the 
banks will be within the secondary rather than the prime 
sector. The availability of capital to acquire these assets 
will be reduced since investors with an appetite for prime 
property are unlikely to have the same risk proﬁle on assets 
which are noticeably inferior in terms of location, tenant 
covenant strength and lease maturity proﬁle. 
Conclusion 
To say that we have clarity in all aspects of the market­ place would be wrong. However, we do have clarity with 
regard to the opportunity and returns that will be available 
to us as we apply our cash and expertise into those 
stressed areas of the market that lack adequate capital. If 
signiﬁcant large-scale development projects need to await 
the next phase of the economic cycle, so be it. We will 
maintain the risk proﬁle of our business model within the 
constraints in which we have operated for many years. 
On behalf of the Board, I would again like to record 
my welcome to Sarah Bates, our new Board member, who 
brings with her an outstanding record of experience and 
skills, some of which we have now seen close at hand 
during the past year. 
It remains for me to thank all of our Directors, 
management and staff for their valued contributions. 
Their professionalism and standing in the marketplace has 
undoubtedly been the key to our success through the last 
few years and will represent the base on which we will 
move forward with growing success. 
David Jenkins 
Chairman 
1st March 2011 
Development Securities PLC / Annual Report 2010 3 
