 6 Development Securities PLC 
Chief Executive’s Statement
Creating value through  
real estate regeneration
Legacy assets
Like most other real estate businesses, we had some legacy assets that 
were caught off-balance in the downturn of 2008. Our strategy to resolve 
them was to seek new or improved planning consents suitable to a more 
subdued economic environment and changing nature of demand. During 
the year, we made further good progress on two of our three significant, 
non-income earning legacy assets. At Broughton, planning consent was 
received in July 2013 for 232 residential units on 19 acres of land which 
was subsequently sold at book value for £1 1.4 million. At 399 Edgware 
Road, we obtained a revised planning consent for a foodstore-led 
mixed-use scheme. We are now under offer with a funding partner to 
finance the development of the 80,000 sq. ft. food store, pre-let to 
Morrisons, which will unlock £12.5 million of positive cash flow. The other 
components of this scheme, with a similar end development value, will also 
be resolved in the near-term. The third significant legacy asset is at Curzon 
Street in the centre of Birmingham where our ten-acre site is directly 
impacted by the proposed HS2 rail project and it will be some considerable 
time before we will be able to monetise this asset. 
Development and trading portfolio
Our current development and trading portfolio has seen a high level of 
activity and this part of the business continues to perform at or above 
expectations, with a strong pipeline of further disposals established. In April 
2014, we completed the disposal of assets within the Rock portfolio and 
additionally have now realised all of the underlying assets within the Chrome 
portfolio. Both of these portfolios were acquired from financial institutions 
and we continue to seek further such loan portfolio acquisitions.
We were also pleased to secure institutional funding on several of our 
projects since the year end, allowing us to implement their delivery and 
monetise our position. We secured £14.8 million of funding to finance the 
development of The Square in Hale Barns near Manchester, £38.1 million 
of funding for the development of the Sainsbury’s food store at Cross 
Quarter, Abbey Wood and £44.1 million for the first phase of development 
at Shepherd’s Bush Market. These projects were acquired by us in a state  
of obsolescence or dereliction and benefitted from subsequent planning 
permission to facilitate the delivery of these mixed-use regeneration schemes.
Our market
A year can be a long time in the fortunes of the UK economy. Twelve months 
ago, the outlook was uncertain as the economy struggled to generate any 
meaningful growth. Then, catching most people by surprise, the UK 
economy began to show signs of life in the second half of 2013, building 
investor and occupier confidence and reinforcing the upwards shift in 
market dynamics. This firmer growth trend, allied with a restricted supply  
of new development product, creates a positive outlook for the successful 
delivery of our existing pipeline of projects, and improves our prospects  
for new opportunities to be secured. It still remains to be seen how firmly 
and rapidly the regional investment and occupational markets continue  
to recover.
Our focus
We have now established a pipeline of some 40 development projects 
where our strategy is to create value through regeneration. The diversity 
and breadth of our portfolio assists us in restricting our exposure in any one 
project to levels proportionate to our Balance Sheet and also provides good 
visibility on a steady flow of future gains. Our work is presently concentrated 
in London and the South East, with an emphasis on residential and 
foodstore-led mixed-use projects where planning change of use is the  
key driver to value growth. 
For the past few years, office development activity outside Central 
London has been limited. However, as upward rental pressure obliges  
some occupiers to seek more cost effective solutions to their requirements, 
office-led development activity on the edges of Central London is becoming 
increasingly relevant to us. 
Progress in the year 
The main drivers for the growth of £13.6 million in shareholders’ funds  
were the excellent performance from our development and trading portfolio 
which generated gains of £27.0 million during the year (28th February 
2013: £28.1 million), as well as a £4.8 million increase in the value of  
our investment portfolio including our share of joint venture assets.  
We anticipate that this performance will continue and indeed strengthen 
over the coming years.   7 Annual Report 2014
Well poised to capitalise on our  
Balance Sheet strength and  
development expertise
—
Michael Marx, Chief Executive 
The planning process remains the key enabler to successfully repositioning 
projects in order to realise value. It is pleasing to note that we have secured 
16 planning wins in the period since 1st March 2013. 
We also made a number of acquisitions during the year with a 
continued focus on regeneration projects. Three of these acquisitions were  
in or close to Greater London: a £5.5 million office building in Sevenoaks;  
a £17.5 million portfolio of five office buildings in North London; and an 
£8.3 million town centre mixed-use development opportunity in Romford. 
The residential element of these mixed-use projects is increasingly 
significant to us and, where appropriate, we are seeking planning change  
of use to create more residential development opportunities within our 
portfolio. In October 2013, we acquired our first project in Dublin, a market 
which we perceive to offer further opportunity for development and 
investment. In April 2014, we contributed £8.5 million to the restructuring  
of Deeley Freed, a Bristol-based property developer with an excellent 
reputation for high quality projects who required assistance in reshaping  
its liability portfolio.  
Investment portfolio
As anticipated, our regionally-biased property investment portfolio has now 
begun to show some positive value growth. Yields have started to compress 
as investor appetite for quality assets outside London has increased. This 
improved sentiment has resulted in a valuation uplift of £3.1 million in our 
directly held investment portfolio as at 28th February 2014 (28th February 
2013: £16.4 million decline). Including the investment properties held within 
our various joint ventures, this upward revaluation increases to £4.8 million. 
We are hopeful that these market conditions will further strengthen through 
the coming year. It is pleasing to note that vacancy rates have reduced to 
6.3 per cent as at 28th February 2014 (28th February 2013: 9.7 per cent). 
Our investment portfolio generated £15.0 million in rental income which 
contributes significantly to the stable cash flows of our business.
With increased liquidity and competition within the markets in which 
we operate, we have commenced our programme of disposals of those 
assets where our business plan is now complete. In October 2013, we 
sold The Phones 4u Arena in Manchester for £82.1 million. The value that 
we added to this arena during our period of ownership with our joint venture 
partner was considerable, with returns far exceeding our original expectations. 
Additionally, we sold our Waitrose-anchored scheme in Winchester for 
£23.3 million in March 2014, £1.3 million in excess of book value as at 28th 
February 2013. In April 2014, we sold £21.0 million of assets from within our 
investment portfolio at book value. We intend to recycle the equity released 
from these disposals back into the investment market in the near-term. 
Major developments
In July 2013, we completed 10 Hammersmith Grove, our first large-scale 
office project of the current cycle, and in February this year completed the 
first letting of two floors to UKTV. Work has now commenced on the second 
and final phase of this development, 12 Hammersmith Grove, a 167,000 sq. ft. 
prime office building. In October 2013, we secured an option to acquire 
Algarve House, a vacant, derelict office building in Southwark, another 
strengthening market on the fringe of the Central London core. Here we are 
progressing the masterplan for a mixed-use regeneration scheme of some 
200,000 sq. ft. In April 2014, in joint venture with a financial partner, we 
exchanged conditional contracts to acquire an income-generating office 
building for more than £75.0 million in a Central London location.
In August 2013, we received a compensation payment of £7.1 million 
for releasing our interest in the remaining two phases at PaddingtonCentral, 
the 1.2 million sq. ft. office-led mixed-use regeneration project in which we 
had been engaged for some 15 years. 
Outside London, in March 2014 in a joint venture with Prorsus, we 
were appointed as the private sector partner at Harwell Oxford. Here, we 
will manage and further develop this internationally renowned science 
Campus on a 700-acre site in partnership with the Science and Technology 
Facilities Council and the UK Atomic Energy Authority, two 
Government-backed agencies. 
Outlook
We remain positive about the outlook for all aspects of our business. We are 
well poised to capitalise on our Balance Sheet strength and development 
expertise, which are traditionally much in demand at this point in the cycle.
Michael Marx
Chief Executive
30th April 2014
