 23961.04 – 13 May 2016 5:25 PM – Proof 6
CEO’s Review
“ The Board is 
confident that both 
Divisions have strong 
futures.”
Jason Starr 
Chief Executive
Dillistone Group Plc is a 
global leader in the supply 
of technology solutions and 
services to the recruitment 
industry worldwide.
Strategy and objectives
The Group’s strategy is to grow the business 
both organically and through acquisition. 
This strategy is made possible through our 
commitment to product development, which 
ensures that the business continues to 
command a leading role in all of the markets 
in which it operates. 
Our acquisition strategy typically entails 
consideration of businesses offering:
•	 products that would further increase 
market share in the Group’s core markets; 
•	 legacy applications where clients could 
be transferred to our modern suite of 
products; or
•	 complementary applications which may 
be cross-sold to clients of the Group.
The Group’s objectives are principally to:
•	 ensure our products meet the needs of 
the recruitment sector through continual 
investment and development;
•	 be a leading player in all of the markets 
we serve;
•	 develop our staff delivering progressive 
career development;
•	 increase our profitability and deliver 
increased shareholder value year on year 
in conjunction with following a progressive 
dividend policy.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The Board and management use absolute figures to monitor the performance of the business in 
the following financial KPIs:
FY 2015 
£’000
FY 2014
£’000 measure used by management
Total revenues 9,437 8,625 year on year growth
Recurring revenues 6,606 5,929 year on year growth
Non-recurring revenues 2,333 2,285 year on year growth
Adjusted profit before tax 1,416 1,824 year on year growth
Cash less borrowings 1,270 1,443 sufficient cash resources maintained
Adjusted profit before tax is statutory profit before acquisition costs, related intangible amortisation, movements in contingent 
consideration and other one-off costs relating to acquisitions.
In addition, the Board monitors order levels and employee numbers as well as performance 
against budget.
49% Dillistone
51% Voyager
Divisional revenue analysis 
2015
Read more about our divisions  
on page 09
www.dillistonegroup.com
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
07
Dillistone AR2015.indd   7 13/05/2016   17:27:14 23961.04 – 13 May 2016 5:25 PM – Proof 6
Our business model
Short and 
long term 
value for our 
shareholders
Our large client base means that we do not depend on a small number of clients.
We generate revenue typically through three pricing mechanisms:
•	 Upfront licence fee plus recurring support fee
•	 Software as a Service (SaaS) subscription basis
•	 Hybrid model incorporating upfront payment and recurring support and  
hosting fees
wE utIlISE
Our IP , human 
and physical 
capabilities
Global thought leaders:
•	 Offices in UK, Germany, USA, and Australia
•	 Data centres in Europe, USA, Brazil, Singapore, and Australia
•	 Around 120 staff
tO DElIVER
•	  Our suite of innovative recruitment software is packaged with  
an end-to-end service
•	 Additional services include training, data translation, support services and 
running conferences
•	 Our data centres enable us to offer optional hosting
Products  
and services
In 2000+ firms across 60 countries, our clients are situated across the entire 
recruitment landscape.
They say that we provide them with:
•	 Stability, flexibility and functionality
•	 Easy access to their data 
•	 Rapid deployment
•	 Ongoing development ensures upgrade path for clients
Short and 
long term 
value for our 
clients
AnD GEnERA tE
thA t PROVIDE
CEO’s Review continued
Dillistone Group Plc  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2015 stock code: DSG
08
Dillistone AR2015.indd   8 13/05/2016   17:27:14 23961.04 – 13 May 2016 5:25 PM – Proof 6
Group review of  
the business
2015 saw recurring revenues grow 11% to 
£6.606m (2014: £5.929m) reflecting, in part, 
the full year impact of the acquisition of ISV 
in October 2014. Non-recurring revenues 
increased 2% to £2.333m (2014: £2.285m). 
As a result, overall revenues increased by 
9% to £9.437m (2014: £8.625m) with 
recurring revenues representing 70% of 
Group revenues (2014: 69%). Overheads 
have increased across the business in part 
reflecting the full year impact of ISV but 
also reflecting the increased investment 
in Dillistone Systems as forewarned in 
the interim statement. This resulted in a 
5% fall in adjusted EBITDA to £2.285m 
(2014: £2.402m). Operating profits before 
acquisition related items fell 22% to £1.424m 
(2014: £1.820m) and pre-tax profits before 
acquisition related items also fell 22% to 
£1.416m (2014: £1.824m).
Divisional reviews
Dillistone Systems
The Dillistone Systems division is primarily 
focused on providing technology solutions 
to the executive search market via our range 
of “FileFinder” applications. This client 
group is made up of both executive search 
firms and executive search teams in major 
organisations.
Dillistone Systems’ head office is in London 
and it has offices in the US, Germany and 
Australia. The Division accounts for 49% 
(2014: 53%) of the Group’s revenue and it 
saw revenue grow 1% to £4.620m (2014: 
£4.557m).
It was pleasing to see revenue return to 
growth in 2015 after the 9% fall in 2014. 
However, increased competition means 
that the Division has to work harder to 
win business and retain clients, and this 
has required and continues to require 
ongoing investment in our products, in our 
services, and in our infrastructure, which 
inevitably leads to higher cost of sales and 
administrative expenses, which was further 
aggravated by the strength of Sterling in 
2015. Depreciation and amortisation also 
increased by 36% in the Division, reflecting 
the first full year amortisation charge of the 
FileFinder browser product, for which costs 
were capitalised in previous periods. This 
has led to segmental EBITDA decreasing 
by 11% to £1.425m (2014: £1.597m) and 
operating profit falling 24% to £0.891m 
(2014: £1.168m).
In our interim announcement released to the 
market in 2015, we explained our increased 
investment, noted a pleasing increase in 
product sales and explained our confidence 
that our product investment would lead to 
further growth in orders and revenue. I am 
pleased that this prediction has proven to 
be accurate as the Division has enjoyed 
an extremely positive Q1 2016 in terms of 
incoming contracts. I am delighted to report 
that the business has enjoyed a strong order 
book in the first quarter, with new business 
orders up by more than 70% on the same 
period of 2015. Pleasingly, this growth has 
come about as a result of increases in both 
the number of new contract wins and the 
value of those contracts. Client retention 
continues to improve and we are seeing 
strong demand for products and services 
from our existing clients.
The FileFinder Anywhere suite continues 
to be developed, and we anticipate further 
product announcements within the next 12 
months.
Voyager Software
Voyager Software is a provider of technology 
products targeted at the entire recruitment 
landscape, from front office to back office 
and bureaus, and includes both recruitment 
management systems and pre-employment 
skills testing technology.
In 2015, the Voyager Software division 
accounted for 51% (2014: 47%) of Group 
revenues. The Division’s revenues increased 
by 19% to £4.831m and its segmental 
operating profit before amortisation and 
depreciation increased by 19% to £0.956m 
(2014: £0.802m). Recurring revenues 
increased by 25% to £3.430m (2014: 
£2.743m). Depreciation and amortisation 
increased by 113% to £0.327m (2014: 
£0.153m), having been impacted by 
the change in the basis of calculation 
of amortisation of development costs as 
discussed in the financial review and as well 
as the continuing spend on development.
The Division benefited from the full year 
impact of the ISV acquisition made in 
October 2014. Excluding ISV, underlying 
growth in revenue was 4%.
2015 saw some major developments in the 
Division including:
•	 launch of the cloud hosted version of 
Infinity available from multiple global 
regions with additional functionality for 
use in the temporary staffing sector
•	 launch of the integration of ISV FastPath 
and Infinity to help recruitment 
businesses automate testing candidates, 
facilitating cross-selling opportunities 
•	 launch of version 6 of Evolve software
Product development is ongoing across 
the Division and a number of product 
announcements are expected in 2016. 
The Board is confident that both Divisions 
have strong futures.
www.dillistonegroup.com
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
09
Dillistone AR2015.indd   9 13/05/2016   17:27:14 23961.04 – 13 May 2016 5:25 PM – Proof 6
Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to a number 
of risks that include the effect of changes 
in interest rates, credit, foreign currency 
exchange rates and liquidity. The Group does 
not trade in financial instruments.  Further 
details in relation to these risks are shown in 
note 24.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk 
through its floating rate borrowings and 
through its management of retained cash. 
The Group monitors its exposure to interest 
rate risk when borrowing and investing its 
cash resources.
Credit risk
The Group has a large customer base 
in excess of 2,000 customers and is not 
dependent on a small number of customers.  
Accordingly, the Group does not believe it is 
exposed to significant credit risk.  In addition, 
it only places money with banks with strong 
credit ratings.
Exchange risk
The Group is exposed to translation and 
transaction foreign exchange risk.  The 
Group’s foreign operations primarily trade 
in their own currencies, reducing the 
transaction risk. As a result the main foreign 
exchange transactional exposure arises when 
repatriating profits. The Group only seeks to 
remit cash when required in the UK and it 
usually has some flexibility on timing of such 
appropriations to minimise any exchange 
losses. To a degree, the Group relies on a 
partial natural hedge of Euro, Australian 
Dollar and US Dollar to cover the translation 
exposures.
Liquidity risk
Although the Group has some borrowings it 
maintains positive cash resources and has 
sufficient available funds for its operations 
and planned expansion of its existing 
activities.
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
There are a number of risks and uncertainties 
which could have an impact on the Group’s 
long term performance and cause actual 
results to differ materially from expected 
and historical results. The Directors seek 
to identify material risks and put in place 
policies and procedures to mitigate any 
exposure. The table of risks that follows gives 
details of the principal risks and the approach 
being taken to manage them.
CEO’s Review continued
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Economic risk The recruitment industry has a reputation for being vulnerable 
to the cyclical nature of the economy. This can impact 
significantly on non-recurring revenue and to a lesser extent 
recurring revenue
The Company operates globally and so is not reliant on one 
economy. It enjoys a high percentage of recurring revenues. 
The acquisition of Voyager FCP and ISV has increased the 
exposure to the UK economy. 
In a downturn there may be a reduction in new permanent 
hires which may be replaced by temporary hires. The Group’s 
suite of products now supports more aspects of the third party 
recruitment market through its acquisition of Voyager. The 
temporary recruitment market is potentially anti-cyclical. 
The Group is following a strategy designed to increase 
recurring revenues.
New product 
risk
The introduction of new products might contain significant 
bugs that make them unusable. This could damage the 
Group’s reputation and result in loss of new orders and 
therefore reduce revenue growth. It could also result in claims 
against the Company.
The cost and time frame for developing and releasing new 
product could be a bigger drain on resource than built into 
budgets and forecasts.
Products are tested pre-launch and launch and 
implementation strategies developed to minimise risks. 
Additional unit testing is built in and commitment to focus on 
user experience. 
Development plan is regularly reviewed by management.
Attrition of 
customer base
Failure to attract new customers, or the loss of existing 
customers, may have a detrimental effect on the Group’s 
ability to generate revenues.
Actively manage existing customer relationships through 
account management structures and promptly deal with 
issues. 
The Group continues to invest in new products and new 
features being added. 
Dillistone Group Plc  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2015 stock code: DSG
10
Dillistone AR2015.indd   10 13/05/2016   17:27:14 23961.04 – 13 May 2016 5:25 PM – Proof 6
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Competitor 
activity
The market for recruitment software is extremely fragmented 
with a large number of small suppliers operating in all of the 
Group’s geographical markets. Very few of these suppliers 
have the necessary financial, technical and marketing 
resources to be able to develop their competitive position. 
However, the competition may intensify through consolidation 
or new entrants to the market.
Some competitors offer a broader product range enabling 
them to compete across the whole of the sector.
The businesses can easily lose market share if its products 
are not well regarded either from being “out of date” or 
“buggy”.
Some firms may try to compete on price, particularly if the 
market deteriorates. 
The Group has strong customer relationships and uses 
account management to keep in touch with clients.
The Group continues to invest in its product development 
and 2015 saw the launch of a SaaS version of Infinity and 
2016 has seen the launch of a standalone browser version of 
FF. The Group continues to innovate and provide solutions to 
client needs. 
There is a focus on fixing bugs and issues as they arise to 
ensure the user experience is good.
Pricing strategies are reviewed on a regular basis. The 
introduction of a SaaS product should result in a more 
competitive subscription model for Voyager.
The Group continues to look into developing new products 
and additional features to more readily compete.
Business 
continuity risks 
associated with 
information 
systems’ 
operational 
failure and data 
security
A failure of systems or failure of hosting facilities leading to 
loss of customer confidence in the Group being able to deliver 
their requirements.
Loss or corruption of data held on behalf of customers which 
could have a detrimental effect on their confidence in data 
security processes and could cause financial loss.
External attacks on servers could result in lost or corrupted 
data and loss of reputation.
Each division is reliant on data centres. Work is ongoing to 
improve disaster recovery plans, including investing in the use 
of the cloud. 
Plans are regularly reviewed on how to improve data centre 
management as the business grows worldwide. 
Data backups occur daily and the necessary test carried out 
on a regular basis to ensure data can be restored. 
Penetration testing helps minimise the risk of attacks. 
Employee 
engagement and 
retention
Capability to meet the demands of the markets in which 
the Group operates and competes effectively with other IT 
suppliers is largely dependent on the skills, experience and 
performance of staff.
Failure to attract or retain high calibre employees could 
seriously impede future growth and present performance. 
Reliability on small group of people especially in parts of the 
business.
To retain staff the Group operates competitive remuneration 
packages.
Appraisals are carried out which also consider individual’s 
personal development.
Cross training being carried out where possible.
Acquisition risk The Group has made three acquisitions since 2011 and is 
likely to make further acquisitions in the future. This creates 
the potential risk that acquisitions may not perform or may 
contain hidden risks or liabilities.
For all acquisitions and in advance of completion, 
management undertakes due diligence and prepare 
integration plans including risk identification. These papers 
are reviewed and approved by the Board prior to any 
commitment being entered into.
Ability to 
finance 
acquisitions and 
expansion
The Group wants to grow by acquisition and this requires 
that it will have the ability to fund such expansion either via 
borrowing or placement, or through the availability of its own 
cash resources.
Ongoing discussions with investors and potential investors to 
build a following in Dillistone. 
Every placing by the Group has been oversubscribed so 
Group has small fund available for future acquisitions.
Management 
capacity
Size of business means that management tends to be 
stretched and under-resourced. As the business grows there 
may be insufficient support to ensure that the growth is 
effectively managed and integrated.
Investment in additional management in 2015. 
Brexit Potential economic uncertainty could lead to a reduction in 
orders.
May impact where recruiting individuals with European 
languages requirement. It may increase the time and difficulty 
in recruiting skilled employees.
Clients usually choose best in class and already buy from 
global firms.
Already have to deal with visa requirements for some staff. 
www.dillistonegroup.com
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
11
Dillistone AR2015.indd   11 13/05/2016   17:27:14
