 Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 05
Chairman’s statement
Wayne Edmunds
Dialight has developed market-leading 
products with a brand that benefits from 
a strong reputation for innovation, 
advanced technology and long-term 
customer relationships. 
2015 has been a challenging year for Dialight with difficult market 
conditions and over-reliance on the upstream oil and gas sector which 
led to a significant slowdown in revenue growth.
There have been a number of operational issues identified and good 
progress has been made to resolve them. We have a strong new 
management team in place to lead Dialight through its next stage of 
development, led by Michael Sutsko, who was appointed Group Chief 
Executive in June 2015, and Fariyal Khanbabi, our Group Finance 
Director. Together they have put in place a new strategy focused on 
rebuilding the Group’s operations, product development, sales strategy 
and delivering sustainable profitable growth. 
Board composition
In order to support our Executive team in running the day-to-day 
business operations of the Group, we have brought together an 
international Board of Directors with extensive experience of running 
public companies in a global environment. We believe that by using 
our wealth of experience to help monitor and guide the path of the 
management, Dialight will grow profitably for the foreseeable future.
Governance
We believe that good corporate governance is the key to long-term 
business success.
The Board is mindful of the need to protect and promote the interests 
of the Company’s shareholders. We believe that the Board and its 
Committees provide the appropriate corporate governance balance.
 
For more information on corporate governance see page 28
Outlook
We continue to pursue our overall growth strategy of designing 
market-leading products. The Group remains focused on executing 
our strategy without compromising our brand, despite the more 
challenging macroeconomic environment and will deliver long-term 
value to our shareholders. 
Wayne Edmunds, Chairman
8 March 2016
Focused on the long term
“ We continue to pursue our 
overall growth strategy of 
focusing on the design of 
market‑leading products.”
