 12
Chief Executive’s Review
The Group delivered 
a robust performance 
with a good 
contribution from 
acquisitions”
 Bruce Thompson, CEO
Business model and growth strategy
The Group’s strategy is designed to generate 
strong, double-digit growth in earnings and 
shareholder value over the business cycle, by 
building larger, broader-based businesses in 
the three Group Sectors of Life Sciences, Seals 
and Controls. 
Our businesses target “GDP plus” levels of 
organic revenue growth over the business 
cycle. Stable and resilient revenue growth is 
achieved through our focus on essential 
products and services funded by customers’ 
operating rather than capital budgets and 
supplied across a range of specialised industry 
segments. By supplying essential solutions, 
not just products, we build strong long term 
relationships with our customers and 
suppliers, which support sustainable and 
attractive margins. Finally we encourage an 
entrepreneurial culture in our businesses 
through our decentralised management 
structure and these essential values ensure 
that decisions are made close to the customer 
and that the businesses are agile and 
responsive to changes in the market and the 
competitive environment.
Overall growth is accelerated from the 
underlying GDP plus levels to the corporate 
target of strong, double-digit growth, 
through carefully selected, value-enhancing 
acquisitions which fit the business model and 
offer entry into new strategic markets. 
Acquisitions are not made just to add revenue 
and profit, but rather to bring into the Group 
successful businesses which have growth 
potential, capable management and a good 
track record of profitable growth and cash 
generation. As part of our Acquire, Build, Grow 
strategy , we invest in the businesses post 
acquisition to build a firm foundation to allow 
them to move to a new level of growth. These 
acquisitions form a critical part of our Sector 
growth strategies and are designed to generate 
a pre-tax return on investment of at least 20% 
and hence support our Group objective of 
consistently exceeding 20% ROA TCE.
In 2015, the Group has delivered a robust 
performance with a good contribution 
from acquisitions completed during the last 
eighteen months. The Group’s revenues 
increased by 9% with the acquired businesses 
adding 11% to revenues, but with adverse 
currency movements reducing revenues 
by 3% on translation to UK sterling. After 
adjusting for acquisitions and currency , 
underlying revenues increased by 1%. 
Adjusted operating margins decreased 
by 40bps to 18. 1% of revenue, reflecting 
transactional currency effects in the 
Healthcare businesses and initial dilution 
from the acquired businesses. Free cash flow 
increased by 7% to £40.3m and return on 
adjusted trading capital employed (“ROA TCE”) 
remained comfortably above the 20% 
threshold at 23.9%.  13
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Performance against objectives and KPIs
The Group’s principal corporate objectives  
are to achieve double digit growth in adjusted 
earnings per share (“EPS”) over the business 
cycle, to generate total shareholder return 
(“TSR”) growth in the upper quartile of the 
FTSE 250 and to deliver progressive dividend 
growth with two times dividend cover.  
The compound growth in adjusted EPS has 
been 15% p.a. over the last five years, with  
growth this year at the more modest level of 
6%. Over the last five years, the compound 
growth in TSR has been 22% p.a. This year , 
TSR has been broadly flat after a number of 
years of very strong growth. Dividends have 
increased progressively in each of the last 
16 years and this year the dividend has 
increased by 7%. Over the last five years, 
the compound growth in dividends has 
been 15% p.a. 
Underpinning the principal corporate 
objectives are a set of further objectives, with 
related key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
which are used to measure performance at 
the Group level, but also to drill down through 
the operating businesses. 
The first of these next level objectives is to 
generate stable “GDP plus” levels of organic 
revenue growth over the business cycle. This 
Group
Strong proven 
business model 
delivered robust 
performance
Acquisitions
Acquisition spend 
doubled over prior 
year in positive 
acquisition 
environment 
Life Sciences
4% underlying 
revenue growth 
despite pressure on 
Healthcare budgets 
in Canada and 
Australia 
Seals
4% underlying 
revenue growth as 
trading activity in 
North America 
slowed in H2
Controls
Softer European 
industrial markets 
and strong prior year 
comparatives; 
5% underlying 
revenue reduction
year, challenging markets within the three 
Sectors meant that organic growth has been 
hard won. In Life Sciences, underlying 
revenues increased by 4% despite the 
pressure on budgets throughout the 
Healthcare system driven by the tougher 
economic environments in Canada and 
Australia. In Seals, underlying revenues 
increased by 4% as trading activity in North 
America slowed in the second half of the year, 
impacted indirectly by cutbacks in the Oil & 
Gas sector and lower demand for natural 
resources. Controls revenues decreased by 
5% on an underlying basis, reflecting softer 
European industrial markets and strong prior 
year comparatives.
The objective for adjusted operating margins 
is to maintain stable attractive margins which 
reflect the focus on specialised segments, 
strongly differentiated products and customer 
focused solutions, combined with efficiently 
run operations. This year, adjusted operating 
margins were 18. 1% which is at the lower end 
of the five year average range of 18–19%. 
As always there were a number of moving 
parts, with margins negatively impacted by 
the reduced gross margins in the Healthcare 
businesses, initial dilution from acquired 
businesses and one-off facility restructuring 
costs in the US. However, the impact on 
Group operating margins was limited to 
40bps by Sector mix and by tight control of 
operating costs across the businesses. 
The Group continues to focus strongly on free 
cash flow, which funds the growth strategy 
and gives the resources to provide healthy 
dividends to shareholders. In 2015, free cash 
flow was £40.3m, compared with a five year 
average of £33m p.a. and was equivalent to a 
conversion rate of over 90% of adjusted after 
tax earnings. 
The principal determinant of free cash flow 
conversion is the effective management of 
working capital and the KPI used to measure 
and monitor this performance is working 
capital as a percentage of revenue. In 2015 
this KPI remained stable at 17 .0% comparing 
well with the five year average level of 16–17% 
which is also the longer term target.
ROATCE is the final indicator of the overall 
performance of the Group and very 
importantly of its success in creating value 
for shareholders. ROA TCE is measured as 
the pre-tax return on total Group investment 
excluding net cash, but including all goodwill 
and acquired intangible assets. ROA TCE has 
comfortably exceeded the 20% target in each 
of the last five years and this year was 23.9%.
 
Building
shareholder value
PG22 PG26 PG30
Our year in review 14
of Ireland and the UK. In addition, TPD brings 
important new products and suppliers to 
the DHG group in the areas of rapid hygiene 
testing in Food, Dairy and Pharmaceutical 
industries as well as Digestive Health.
In Seals, the Group acquired Kubo, a leading 
supplier of seals, ‘O’ rings, gaskets and 
moulded rubber parts serving a diverse base 
of industrial customers in Switzerland and 
Austria. This acquisition opens up further 
opportunities for cross-selling of products 
with the Group’s other Industrial OEM Seals 
businesses, giving them access to Kubo’s 
high precision manufactured parts.  In the 
UK, FPE Seals acquired Swan Seals, a small 
specialised supplier of machined seals based in 
Aberdeen and serving customers’ operational 
requirements.
The Group also acquired a further 10% 
shareholding in Kentek, taking our ownership 
to 90% with the balance held by the Managing 
Director of the business. In October 2015, 
shortly after the year end, the Group 
acquired WCIS, a supplier of gaskets, seals 
and associated products and services, with 
operations in Australia and New Caledonia.
Management development
Iain Henderson, our Chief Operating Officer 
(“COO”), decided during the year that he 
would like to retire from the Group. Iain will 
stand down from the Board at the January 
2016 AGM but will stay fully involved with the 
Group until the end of March 2016 to ensure a 
smooth handover of responsibilities. Iain has 
“ C a re ful l y s e l e c t e d , 
value enhancing 
acquisitions 
accelerate growth 
and facilitate entry  
to related markets.”
Acquisitions 
Acquisitions are an integral part of the Group’s 
strategy , designed to accelerate growth and to 
facilitate entry into related strategic markets. 
T o achieve the Group’s objective of strong 
double-digit growth, acquisition spend at the 
level of £25–30m p.a. is targeted. This year, 
the Group continued to benefit from a positive 
acquisition environment and invested £37 .8m 
in acquisitions, which was well above the 
target annual level and was more than double 
the level of expenditure in the prior year. 
The acquisitions which have been completed 
are natural extensions of the Group’s existing 
businesses and have extended the scope of 
the businesses into new product and market 
segments and geographies. 
In Life Sciences, DHG acquired 80% of 
T echnopath Distribution (“TPD”), an 
established supplier to the Biotechnology , 
Clinical Laboratory and Medical markets in 
Ireland and the UK. The acquisition of TPD 
represents an important first step in extending 
the scope of DHG’s business into the markets 
worked alongside me for 17 years at Diploma 
and he has been a key driver of the growth and 
development of the Group over this period. 
We will all miss his insightful contributions on 
strategy , keen business judgement and dry 
humour, but at the same time we all wish him 
well in his future endeavours. 
Over the last few years, we have strengthened 
the senior management team by giving 
increased responsibility to existing managers 
and through selective external recruitment. 
We are intending to continue this process over 
the coming year with the establishment of a 
formal Executive Management Group (“EMG”) 
reporting in to me. We will be retiring Iain’s 
COO shirt and his responsibilities will be re-
allocated across this broader leadership team. 
The introduction of the EMG will ensure that 
we have a strong and broad based team in 
place to support the next stage of our growth 
strategy . Since the year end, we have made 
good progress in building bench strength 
in this evolving EMG, with the recruitment 
of two experienced senior managers to 
take leadership roles in North American 
Industrial Distribution and in our International 
Healthcare business. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
2015 2011 2012 2014 2013
28.2m
22.3m
16.5m
2.2m
£37.8m
• Life Sciences –  
TPD (80%)
• Seals – Kubo (100%); 
Swan Seals (100%); 
Kentek (10%)
12.2m
2009 2010
11.0m
Acquisition spend (£) 15
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Performance in the year
Reported revenues of the Life Sciences 
businesses increased by 13% to £103. 1m.  
The acquisitions of TPD in October 2014 and 
Chemzyme in July 2014 added 15% to Sector 
revenues but this was partly offset by a 
reduction of ca.6% in revenues from  
currency translation to a strong UK sterling. 
On a constant currency basis, underlying 
revenues increased by 4%.
Gross margins in the Healthcare businesses 
continued to be impacted significantly by 
transactional currency effects. During the 
financial year, the Canadian and Australian 
businesses experienced further depreciation 
in their domestic currencies of 20% and 25% 
respectively relative to the US dollar, which  
is the principal currency in which these 
businesses mostly purchase their products. 
The TPD business in Ireland and the UK has 
not been impacted in the same way by 
transactional currency effects, but joined the 
Group with slightly lower operating margins. 
Currency hedging contracts and supplier price 
concessions have provided some mitigation, 
but Healthcare gross margins have reduced by 
370bps compared with the prior year. 
Environmental gross margins improved and 
operating costs as a percentage of revenue 
reduced across the Life Sciences businesses; 
Sector adjusted operating margins therefore 
reduced by only 120bps to 20.4%. On a 
reported basis, adjusted operating profit 
increased in UK sterling terms by 7% to 
£21.0m. 
Free cash flow increased by 5% to £15.6m 
reflecting a combination of the increased 
operating profit and reduced cash flows into 
working capital, offset by an increase in  
capital expenditure. 
Strategy development
The DHG group of Healthcare businesses 
account for 85% of Life Sciences revenues. 
The DHG model is to build strong market 
positions in growing niche Healthcare 
markets. Products are sourced from high 
quality medical device manufacturers under 
the terms of long term exclusive distribution 
agreements. Full service solutions are 
provided by highly qualified technical sales 
and product application staff, working closely 
with surgeons, operating room nurses and 
laboratory technologists. A large proportion of 
revenues are secured under multi-year 
customer contracts.
In Canada, the three principal businesses 
delivered good revenue growth, despite 
the softer economic environment putting 
pressure on budgets throughout the 
Healthcare system. There have been various 
initiatives by the Provinces and regions to 
restructure functions and these constrained 
purchasing in the first half of the year; the 
businesses had a stronger second half as 
delayed capital equipment orders were 
released. Somagen continued to grow in 
the core areas of HbA1c diabetes testing, 
electrophoresis, colorectal cancer screening 
and assisted reproductive technology (“ ART”), 
while adding new suppliers in quality control 
products and automation in microbiology 
and theranostics. Revenue growth in AMT’s 
core electrosurgery business was constrained 
by Provincial and buying group tendering 
processes, but further progress was made in 
developing AMT’s minimally invasive surgery 
business. Vantage delivered good double-
digit growth across its principal product lines 
including endoscopes, reprocessors, argon 
plasma and GI endoscopy accessories. 
In Australia, the economies have faced  
similar economic challenges to those 
experienced in Canada and again Healthcare 
budgets have come under pressure. Against 
this background, the DHG businesses have 
delivered a creditable double-digit growth in 
revenues, with particularly strong growth in 
smoke evacuation. BGS and DSL operate as 
distinct sales and marketing businesses  
under a single strong leadership team and 
shared operations and back-office systems. 
Chemzyme, acquired in July 2014, was fully 
integrated into DHG’s operations in 
Melbourne during the year. 
In early October 2014, DHG acquired 80%  
of TPD, an established supplier to the 
Biotechnology , Clinical Laboratory and Medical 
markets in Ireland and the UK. TPD is an 
important first step in extending the scope of 
DHG’s business into Europe and adding new 
products and suppliers in the Food, Dairy and 
Pharmaceutical industries as well as Digestive 
Health. TPD has performed very well since 
acquisition, delivering strong double-digit 
revenue growth on a like-for-like basis. 
The a1-group of Environmental businesses 
account for ca. 15% of Sector revenues  
and supply a range of products used in 
Environmental testing and Health & Safety 
applications. The a1-group businesses have 
maintained underlying revenues in challenging 
European markets and finished the year with  
a solid order book. The a1-envirosciences 
business saw strong demand for high-end 
elemental and mercury analysers supplied to 
the Petrochemical industry and Environmental 
laboratories. The a1-CBISS business is 
benefiting from supplying to the new Biomass 
and Energy from Waste plants which are 
forming an increasingly important part of the 
UK’s energy portfolio.
Life Sciences
• Sector revenue growth of 13%; 
underlying growth of 4% after 
adjusting for currency and TPD 
acquisition
• Good revenue growth in DHG’s 
Canadian and Australian 
businesses despite pressure on 
Healthcare budgets; stronger 
second half of year as delayed 
capital equipment orders 
released
• Significant pressure on margins 
from 20-25% depreciation of 
Canadian and Australian dollars 
against US dollar
• TPD acquisition extends DHG 
into Ireland and the UK; strong 
double-digit growth in first year
• Environmental businesses 
maintained underlying revenues 
and finished the year with solid 
order book
31
%
of Group revenue
2015 2014
Revenue £103.1m £91.4m
Adjusted operating 
profit £21.0m £19.7m
Adjusted operating 
margin 20.4% 21.6%
Free cash flow £15.6m £14.9m 16
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Performance in the year
Reported revenues of the Seals businesses 
increased by 17% to £139 .6m. These revenues 
included contributions from Kubo, Kentek, 
and four smaller bolt-on acquisitions in the 
UK completed during the last 18 months. 
After adjusting for these acquisitions and for 
currency translation, underlying revenues 
increased by 4%. 
Good progress has been made during the year 
in establishing a more substantial presence 
outside North America through a combination 
of organic growth and acquisition. The 
businesses based in the EMEA region 
contributed £47 .3m to Seals revenues in the 
year and now account for 34% of Sector 
revenues. In October 2015, shortly after the 
year end, the acquisition was completed 
of WCIS, a supplier of gaskets, seals and 
associated products and services with 
operations in Australia and New Caledonia.
Across the Seals businesses, gross margins 
continued to be resilient, underpinned by the 
business model of superior product availability 
and added value technical services. Adjusted 
operating margins reduced by 30bps to 17 .8% 
as Kubo joined the Group with lower initial 
operating margins and there were several 
one-off costs in the reorganisation of facilities 
in the US, including the relocation of the 
Bulldog facility . Adjusted operating profits 
increased by 14% to £24.8m. 
Free cash flow increased by £1.4m to £17 .8m, 
benefiting from the increase in operating profit 
and tight control of working capital, partially 
offset by an increase in capital expenditure. 
Strategy development
The Aftermarket Seals businesses account 
for ca.55% of Sector revenues and supply 
own-branded sealing products used in a 
broad range of heavy mobile machinery 
applications. The products are generally 
supplied from inventory on a next day delivery 
basis and are typically used in the repair 
and maintenance of equipment after it has 
completed its initial warranty or lease term. 
Our businesses act as a one-stop source of 
replacement components for all main brands 
of machinery and compared to the OEM dealer 
networks, offer higher levels of customer 
service and more competitive pricing.
In North America, HFPG delivered a solid 
performance in most territories, offset 
by substantial declines in the resource 
dependent States in the second half of the 
year. Further progress was made in electronic 
trading and two new seal machining centres 
were added during the year. The Bulldog 
operations in Reno were relocated to a new 
facility in T ampa, close to the core Hercules 
Clearwater site. HFPG revenues were also 
impacted this year by a significant reduction 
in demand for HKX’s attachment kits against 
a very strong prior year comparative. HKX has 
responded by introducing lower cost, entry 
level kits which are upgradeable as required to 
provide a fuller range of capabilities.
In Europe, FPE Seals increased revenues 
strongly , benefiting from a full year of AB 
Seals and the transfer from HFPG of sales 
responsibility for the Bulldog range of 
products in the EMEA region. Swan Seals, a 
small specialised supplier of machined seals 
based in Aberdeen, was acquired in July 
2015. During the year, FPE Seals relocated its 
principal UK operations to a new, purpose 
built facility which will be the core Aftermarket 
Seals hub for further expansion in the EMEA 
region. Kentek delivered strong revenue 
growth despite the significant economic and 
market challenges in Russia, Finland and the 
Baltic States.
The Industrial OEM businesses account for 
ca.45% of Seals revenues and supply seals, 
O-rings and custom moulded and machined 
parts used in a range of specialised industrial 
equipment. The businesses work closely with 
their Industrial OEM customers to specify the 
most appropriate sealing material and design 
for the customer’s application and to select 
the most suitable seal manufacturer from 
which to source the parts. Once the part is 
designed into the application, the businesses 
provide the necessary logistical and technical 
support, in most cases for the lifetime of the 
OEM’s product.
In North America, the businesses delivered 
solid GDP plus growth for the year, though 
trading activity again slowed in the second 
half, impacted indirectly by cutbacks in the 
Oil & Gas and Mining sectors. During the 
year a new branch operation was opened by 
All Seals in Houston and J Royal strengthened 
its operations by integrating its Rhode Island 
operations into the main facility in North 
Carolina. 
In Europe, the Group completed the 
acquisition of Kubo, a leading supplier of seals, 
O-rings, gaskets and moulded rubber parts 
to a diverse base of industrial customers in 
Switzerland and Austria. M Seals delivered 
solid underlying growth in Denmark, Sweden, 
China and the UK. 
• Sector revenue growth of 17%; 
underlying growth of 4% after 
adjusting for currency and 
acquisitions
• In North America, slower trading 
activity in second half, impacted 
indirectly by cutbacks in Oil & 
Gas and Mining industries 
• Continued investment in 
e-commerce and seal machining 
centres; Bulldog operations 
relocated to Tampa; new branch 
operation in Houston 
• In Europe, strong underlying 
growth despite challenging 
economic background; new 
purpose built FPE Seals facility 
established as core Aftermarket 
hub in Europe
• EMEA Seals now 34% of Sector 
revenues following acquisitions 
of Kentek, Kubo and Swan Seals 
• Acquisition of WCIS after year 
end broadens product range and 
extends Seals activities into 
Australasia 
Seals
42
%
of Group revenue
2015 2014
Revenue £139.6m £119.8m
Adjusted operating 
profit £24.8m £21.7m
Adjusted operating 
margin 17.8% 18.1%
Free cash flow £17.8m £16.4m 17
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Performance in the year
Reported revenues of the Controls businesses 
decreased by 4% to £91. 1m, after including 
a full year contribution from SFC, acquired in 
July 2014. After adjusting for this acquisition 
and for currency translation, underlying 
revenues decreased by 5%. The Controls 
businesses faced challenging industrial 
markets in the UK and Continental Europe 
and strong comparatives for the Specialty 
Fasteners business in the Civil Aerospace and 
Motorsport sectors. 
Overall gross margins remained resilient in 
the Controls businesses due to their focus on 
specialised markets and added value services. 
However, operating costs as a percentage of 
revenue increased due to reverse operating 
leverage and adjusted operating margins 
reduced by 30bps to 15.9%. Adjusted 
operating profits decreased by 5% to £14.5m.
Free cash flow remained unchanged at 
£11.4m, with reduced cash flows into 
working capital and lower capital expenditure 
offsetting the impact of lower operating profit. 
Strategy development
The Interconnect businesses account for 
ca.75% of Controls revenues and supply 
a range of high performance wiring, 
connectors, harness components, fasteners 
and control devices. These products are 
used in technically demanding applications, 
often in harsh environments in a range of 
industries including Aerospace, Defence, 
Motorsport, Energy and Medical as well as 
in other specialised Industrial applications. 
The businesses act as a single source for a 
wide range of products, have strong technical 
knowledge to specify products for customer 
applications and offer ex-stock availability 
and a full range of value-added services. A 
high proportion of the products are used in 
refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance 
programmes for equipment in service.
The core Industrial markets in the UK have 
been challenging, with demand from industrial 
end-users muted and with a significant 
reduction in the sales to other distributors in 
the UK and in Eurozone countries which the 
IS-Group serves as a Master distributor for 
certain key suppliers. In Germany , again the 
general industrial sector has suffered in the 
wake of Russian sanctions and the slowing 
Chinese manufacturing sector. In addition, 
a number of IS-Sommer’s customers have 
relocated all or part of their manufacturing to 
lower cost regions outside Germany .
T o offset the declines in the broader Industrial 
markets, the Interconnect businesses have 
focused on more specialised market sectors 
which continue to show growth potential. In 
the Energy sector, IS-Sommer has delivered 
a strong increase in revenues from products 
used in the repair and maintenance of 
the medium-voltage infrastructure of the 
Electricity distribution network. Filcon has also 
had success supplying a focused portfolio 
of specialised connectors to the developing 
Space satellite segment. 
A key element of the growth strategy within 
Interconnect is also to broaden the range of 
high performance products and added value 
services offered. As part of this strategy , the 
Specialty Fasteners group of businesses has 
been formed and was strengthened through 
the acquisition of SFC, which delivered an 
excellent performance in its first full year with 
the Group. Clarendon this year strengthened 
its partnership with its major aircraft seating 
customer, with the installation of an innovative 
VMI (vendor managed inventory) solution 
that utilises bespoke dispensing racks located 
within the customer’s production cells. 
Clarendon also consolidated its position with 
the same customer by extending its supply 
contract to an additional manufacturing site. 
While these projects constrained revenue this 
year during the implementation phases, they 
will secure longer term growth in revenues.
The Fluid Controls businesses account for 
ca.25% of Controls revenues and supply a 
range of fluid control products used broadly 
across the Food & Beverage industry . Products 
are used in a range of applications including 
food retailing and transportation, catering 
equipment, vending machines, coffee 
brewing, pure water and water cooling 
systems.
Hawco has had to respond to significant 
structural changes in food retailing, where 
the traditional UK majors have reduced 
substantially their fit-outs of new stores 
and Hawco’s immediate customers, the 
commercial refrigeration manufacturers, 
have now begun to win new business from 
the European discount retailers. Hawco also 
continues to leverage its expertise and access 
to smaller, more efficient compressors and 
ancillary components to penetrate the wider 
Brewing and Catering sectors.
There are also significant changes taking place 
in the hot drinks dispensing market where key 
players are re-positioning their businesses 
from “vending companies” to “coffee 
specialists” . Abbeychart has responded by 
building a portfolio of essential parts to service 
the broad range of espresso-type machines 
installed in an increasing number of outlets 
from garages to high end restaurants.
• Sector revenue reduced by 4%; 
underlying reduction of 5% after 
adjusting for currency and 
acquisitions
• Interconnect businesses faced 
challenging industrial markets in 
the UK and Continental Europe 
and strong comparatives in Civil 
Aerospace and Motorsport
• Continued growth in specialised 
segments in Germany, including 
the Energy and the Space 
satellite sectors
• In Specialty Fasteners, lineside 
supply projects for aircraft seat 
manufacturer constrained 
business this year but will deliver 
longer term revenue growth; 
excellent performance from SFC 
in first full year
• Fluid Controls businesses 
repositioned towards growing 
segments of the Food & 
Beverage market in the UK, with 
smaller more energy efficient 
products   
Controls
27
%
of Group revenue
2015 2014
Revenue £91.1m £94.6m
Adjusted operating 
profit £14.5m £15.3m
Adjusted operating 
margin 15.9% 16.2%
Free cash flow £11.4m £11.4m
