 23961.04 – 13 May 2016 5:25 PM – Proof 6
Dillistone Group at a Glance
Dillistone Group Plc is a 
global leader in the supply 
of technology solutions and 
services to the recruitment 
industry. Operating across 60 
countries, working with over 
2,000 firms, we are made up 
of two divisions.
Dillistone Systems division
Dillistone Systems is a leading global supplier 
of technology and services to executive search 
firms and to in-house search teams at major 
corporations and not-for-profit organisations. 
The Division’s principal product is the 
FileFinder Anywhere suite, which is typically 
delivered from the cloud via a range of Apps. 
The Division is headquartered in the UK, but 
has offices in the United States, Australia and 
Germany and serves clients in more than 
60 countries, generating more revenue from 
outside the UK than from its home market. 
Dillistone Systems is widely acknowledged 
to work with more executive search firms 
than any comparable supplier, and is also 
considered to be a thought leader in this 
space.  As a result, the Division has also 
moved beyond the supply of software, and 
provides additional services including training 
in executive search techniques, marketing 
and advertising services, and also runs regular 
conferences which are open to both client and 
non-client firms.
Dillistone Systems division
products
FileFinder is designed specifically for the 
executive recruiting market with FileFinder 
Anywhere being the latest generation of the 
suite. FileFinder Anywhere is available in two 
forms – Essentials and Premium.
FileFinder is an executive search database, 
CRM system, research tool, report writer and 
project management solution all rolled into 
one. It is designed to support every element of 
the search process.
The product is unique in its market, in that 
it is available to purchase or to rent, and can 
be accessed via a desktop app, a full browser 
app, a mobile app or through Microsoft 
Outlook (desktop or web versions).
Voyager Software division
Voyager Software became a part of the 
Dillistone Group in September 2011. At the 
time of its acquisition by Dillistone, it provided 
end-to-end recruitment solutions principally 
to the third party recruiting sector. Voyager’s 
products included Voyager Professional, 
Voyager Commercial, Voyager VDQ! and 
Voyager Mid-Office, a product range largely 
used by temp and contingency recruiters. 
In September 2012, Voyager launched its 
next generation software platform, Voyager 
Infinity. Voyager Infinity is designed to 
improve the performance of recruitment 
companies specialising in permanent, 
contract and temporary placements. 
Infinity meets the demands of flexibility and 
functionality required by these firms, putting 
it at the forefront of software available to the 
recruitment industry. In July 2013, the Group 
acquired FCP Internet, suppliers of the Evolve 
SaaS product, and this has subsequently been 
folded into the Voyager division. In October 
2014, a further acquisition saw ISV Software 
– a supplier of skills testing and training 
Read more on Dillistone Systems  
on page 09
Dillistone Group Plc  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2015 stock code: DSG
04
Dillistone AR2015.indd   4 13/05/2016   17:27:09 23961.04 – 13 May 2016 5:25 PM – Proof 6
services – folded into the division. Today, the 
Voyager products are used in over 20 different 
countries by many thousands of users in 
different-sized recruitment businesses. The 
Division has offices in the UK and Australia 
and employs around 60 people.
Voyager Software division
Products
Voyager Software provides a range of 
products to all levels of the recruitment 
market.
Front office products
Voyager Infinity manages 
the work of recruiters 
working to fill permanent 
and longer-term contract/
temporary vacancies delivering measurable 
performance efficiencies and audit trails. 
Voyager Infinity SaaS has all of the great 
features of Infinity available as a managed 
service on the Azure Cloud with affordable 
set-up and affordable monthly cost.
Voyager VDQ! is designed 
for fast-paced blue and 
white collar temporary 
placement agencies that 
have to quickly assemble transient or ad-hoc 
teams to serve highly volatile and urgent 
labour requirements.
Middle and back office 
products
Voyager Mid-Office, Voyager’s flexible Pay & 
Bill solution, automates the processing of 
large volumes of timesheets and payments to 
numerous clients and candidates. 
Voyager Bureau enables bureaus to 
subcontract back-office operations for 
multiple client recruitment companies on a 
single platform.
Virtual Voyager
Alongside the native Cloud products with 
Virtual Voyager, all Voyager products can be 
hosted and delivered to any customer PC 
with an Internet connection.
Evolve
Through FCP Internet, the 
division also provides its 
evolve
TM
 solution. 
evolve™ has been designed to deliver an 
effective workflow solution for all sizes and 
types of recruitment business. It is delivered 
only as a SaaS product.
ISV FastPath
Through ISV, the 
division provides its 
FastPath solution and is 
developing its new ISV 
Online product. This software delivers pre-
employment skills testing and training tools to 
recruitment businesses and corporates.
Read more on Voyager Software 
on page 09 
Main Group offices
www.dillistonegroup.com
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
05
Dillistone AR2015.indd   5 13/05/2016   17:27:13
