 Strategic report
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 10
Group Chief Executive’s statement
Michael Sutsko
This has been a difficult year for the Group 
from a financial, strategic and operational 
perspective. In a challenging time for the 
industry, Dialight has been able to maintain 
its market share.
I joined Dialight in June 2015 believing the Company to have 
differentiated technology and a strong commercial capability to 
deliver value in a market with sizeable potential. These beliefs were 
confirmed as I engaged with the talented people of Dialight around 
the globe.
Revenue grew by 1% to £161.4m (2014: £159.8m), with 3% growth 
in Lighting offset by a 5% decline in the Signals and Components 
segment. On a constant currency basis Lighting revenue was flat year 
on year. The pace of Lighting revenue growth in the year slowed 
compared to the prior year. This was partly as a result of weakness in 
the upstream oil and gas sector. The automotive sector also declined 
from 20% of revenue in 2014 to 6% in 2015, as a result of delays in 
placing orders from some of our strategic accounts. This highlighted 
the need for Dialight to diversify its sector exposure. The sales force 
was refocused in the second half of the year to other market sectors 
and achieved strong growth in downstream oil and gas, power 
generation and pulp and paper.
Underlying EBIT decreased 66% to £6.1m (2014: £18.1m). This was 
primarily the result of the business decision to employ additional 
headcount in advance of expected growth that did not materialise. 
There were also manufacturing inefficiencies relating to material 
sourcing, shop floor planning and tooling which were compounded 
by too many product variations. These issues were addressed in the 
second half of 2015 with a 12% headcount reduction (excluding direct 
labour) undertaken in August and a number of initiatives on the 
factory floor to address the inefficiencies.
There were significant non-underlying items of £9.5m, mainly 
in relation to projects triggered by the strategic review, which are 
detailed in the Financial Review on page 18.
In October we outlined a new strategy to secure sustainable profitable 
growth and maintain our leadership in LED technology. With this 
strategy in mind we have taken a number of steps to address the key 
issues within the business:
Strategic priority 1: build scalable and efficient operations
Over the last few months we have taken action to begin to rebuild 
the business and address the operational inefficiencies that led to 
the poor financial performance in 2015. 
As a first step, we simplified the Group’s segments to focus on LED 
lighting, which includes general industrial illumination and obstruction 
products (lights attached to tall structures and used as collision 
Focus on growth opportunities
“ We are a differentiated 
technology company, well 
positioned in a market with 
sizeable potential.” Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 11
Strategic priority 4: advance our sales approach through 
strategic global accounts
As we develop and improve our products, we are also focusing on 
developing our sales channels and increasing our routes to market. In 
North America, which accounted for 71% of our Lighting revenue in 2015, 
we have established distribution networks. However, in the majority of the 
other regions where we operate, we sell directly to the end customer and 
we feel there is more value to be captured by improving our sales approach.
Currently our sales are focused on the employees and plant managers 
who will be using and installing Dialight’s products and benefiting from 
the enhanced quality of light, ease of installation and improved safety. 
However, we are extending our sales approach to target the corporate 
decision makers at a more senior level. By highlighting the sustainability 
of our products, through increased energy efficiency and lower total 
cost of ownership, we hope to expand our reach and increase the rate 
of uptake of LED lighting in our markets. 
Strategic priority 5: grow into new sectors and geographies
We are actively working to diversify our revenue streams to make the 
business less susceptible to individual market swings, such as the 
downturn in the oil and gas sector we saw this year. We remain 
focused on niche markets where we can differentiate ourselves 
through bespoke products that are designed to meet the certifications 
and specific requirements of each individual customer. However, within 
the existing sectors we serve, almost 50% of our revenue comes from 
heavy industrial and oil and gas customers. We are looking to reduce 
this exposure by growing revenue across our existing market sectors.
We are also looking to diversify our revenues geographically and 
expand into new territories. We have a development programme in 
place for sustainable expansion in our existing markets across Europe, 
the Middle East, Asia and Australia. Supporting this expansion, we are 
looking to establish technology centres internationally which will 
manage product development and certifications in each local market. 
As a result of our strategic initiative we expect restructuring costs to 
be in the region of £12m in 2016 with cumulative savings of 
approximately £12m over the next three years. 
Confident in delivering sustainable, profitable growth
We set out a new strategy to return the business to sustainable profitable 
growth. We are making progress in 2016, having refocused our sales 
strategy, established our first manufacturing partnership as well as 
securing our first automation partnership. Although the economic outlook 
remains uncertain, there are a number of initiatives underway and we are 
targeting revenue and EBIT growth in 2016. We are confident in the 
Group’s outlook over the medium to long-term.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our stakeholders 
and I would especially like to thank our employees across the business 
for their hard work in this transitional period.
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
8 March 2016
avoidance measures) as these provide the growth opportunities 
to meet our profitability targets. For the reasons noted above, our 
other products in Signals and Components do not represent the 
best investment for growth and will now be managed for value.
As a next step, we are focusing on improving our cost base. 
In August 2015 we announced a 12% reduction in the Group’s 
headcount (excluding direct labour), which will deliver £3m of cost 
savings per year. We also improved the operating efficiency of our plants 
in Mexico by changing the machine layout and flexing the workforce. 
Looking ahead, Dialight needs operations that will be more responsive to 
changes in demand while also being capable of supporting an expanding 
product, geographic and customer base. We are exploring manufacturing 
partnerships to outsource the manufacture of our products. Dialight’s 
internal strengths lie in our products’ technology and design.
Strategic priority 2: develop common production platforms
To improve our supply chain processes, we are also redesigning our 
products. Previously, every part of the product being assembled was 
unique to that product. Instead, maximising our ten years’ experience 
in LED lighting design, we have developed common production 
platforms. This means that some parts of the product, such as the 
light engine, power supply and casting, are now standardised and can 
be used as the foundation for all finished products. This will enable 
a more simplified and cost-effective supply chain by reducing the 
number of sub-assembly parts held in inventory.
Strategic priority 3: lead the market in products 
and technology
Dialight has a strong track record of innovation, underpinned by our 
engineers’ experience and technical expertise, and we lead the market by 
delivering the most durable and energy efficient LED products available. 
T o ensure we continue to stay ahead of the competition, we have developed 
a product roadmap that sets out a timeframe for the introduction and 
development of new products and technologies. Successful adherence 
to the roadmap will ensure we continue to create innovative products that 
support our growth into new sectors and geographies, and we will track 
our progress against this roadmap over a three-year period. 
We’re also looking to develop more advanced technology for our 
products as customers increasingly demand automated and more 
intelligent lighting controls, as well as lighting that is connected to 
their broader operating systems. We have already secured strategic 
partnerships in this area, for example, our products are now compatible 
with Rockwell building management systems, and we are looking to 
develop further partnerships to strengthen our software and technical 
capability in this area. 
 
For more information see our strategy on page 12
