 4 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
We remain dedicated to creating and making quality 
sofas that every home loves and can afford. We are 
proud to retain our family culture and our relentless 
focus on success. This is our first year end report 
since our listing in March and we are pleased to report 
a good performance across the financial year with our 
strategy wholly on-track. 
Richard Baker
Chairman
The continuation of  
our growth journey
Our flotation in March this year was an 
exciting milestone in our transition from 
a formerly founder-led private company 
to an independent, listed business 
focused on delivering profitable growth 
and cash returns to shareholders. 
Since joining as Chairman over five 
years ago, I have been consistently 
impressed by how the flexible business 
model, vertical integration and scale of 
our Group allow us to generate strong 
cash returns regardless of market 
headwinds or tailwinds. I am delighted 
to see continued evidence that the 
growth strategy put in place by the 
executive management team is 
delivering positive results across 
multiple initiatives.
There are still substantial further 
potential opportunities for DFS in both 
the UK and international markets under 
our current strategy. The strong 
performance of our store opening 
programme is indicative of the 
long-term opportunity in the UK as we 
develop and test new store sizes and 
formats. Our trial store in Cruquius in 
the Netherlands continues to perform 
Record levels of revenues, profits and  
cash flow over the last financial year,  
with strategic growth initiatives on track
encouragingly, giving us the confidence 
to continue our international trial by 
opening more stores and increasing 
marketing spend. The opening of Sofa 
Workshop and Dwell shop-in-shops 
represents a natural step in our journey 
to increase our appeal to a broader 
range of customers and maximise 
returns from our store warehouse space 
conversion. In addition, overlying these 
initiatives, our continued increase in 
online participation gives us great 
confidence that our omnichannel offer 
will continue to deliver excellent growth.
Our markets
The financial year saw a continuation  
of the favourable upholstery sector 
conditions experienced since the 
second half of our 2014 fiscal year, 
evidenced by the key macroeconomic 
indicators of consumer confidence, 
housing market activity and consumer 
credit availability. 
“
“ Governance
5 DFS Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Financial statements
There is substantial further opportunity 
in both the UK and internationally under 
our current strategy
All of these show positive signs of 
ongoing recovery. The value of the 
upholstery market still remains more 
than 20% beneath the peak seen in 
2007, which gives us further confidence 
in the prospects for long-term growth in 
the sector, notwithstanding the short 
term variations in trading results from 
transient weather or public events. 
Results and dividend
The business has performed well  
in the year delivering record levels  
of revenues, profits and cash flow.  
This performance is especially  
pleasing given the potential impact  
of uncertainty around the UK general 
election in May, the prior year’s extra 
week of trading and the flotation 
process earlier in the year.
Given the strong cash flow generation 
that is a feature of our business model, 
the Board has taken the decision to 
declare payment of an interim dividend 
of 3.1 pence per share and recommend 
to shareholders a final dividend of 
6.2 pence per share. We see this as a 
clear statement of intent to deliver for 
shareholders both earnings growth and 
cash returns through our progressive 
dividend policy. 
People
I am exceptionally proud of the 
continued hard work of our family of 
over 3,500 employees across the 
Group, who deliver outstanding service 
at every stage of our customer 
experience. Our Net Promoter Scores, 
a measure of customer service, have 
reached record levels over the last few 
months, and bear testament to the 
team’s efforts to delight our customers, 
and I thank them for their dedication.
We have had non-executive 
representation on our Board, which I  
have chaired, for many years before 
our listing. I am pleased that we have 
been able to add three outstanding 
independent non-executives to support 
the business in its strategic and 
operational development. We recognise 
the importance of a diversity of skills at 
Board level and our new members bring 
complementary experience from a variety 
of business backgrounds, giving us 
particular strengths in customer service, 
employee engagement, responsible 
retailing and financial control.
I would also like to express my thanks 
to Jon Massey for his 27 years of 
service to the Group, as he retires from 
full-time executive responsibilities. We 
look forward to continuing to benefit 
from his experience as he continues to 
work with us in an advisory capacity.
Conclusion
With the key macro-economic 
indicators for the upholstery sector 
all positive and our strategic initiatives 
on-track, we can look forward with 
confidence. We have an exceptionally 
strong management team, a leading 
customer proposition, a financial model 
that is well adapted for the volatility in 
demand that the sector can experience 
and a proven long-term growth 
strategy. DFS is well positioned to  
make further excellent progress in the 
year ahead.
Richard Baker
Chairman
7 October 2015
“
“
