 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 06
STRATEGIC REPORT
 o TheGroupopened65storesand
now operates931storesacrossour
three markets
 o IntheUKin2015,60%oftotal
orders weremadebycustomers
online, upfrom53.3%in2014
 o TheUKbusinessachievedsystem
sales growthof16.8%including
11.7% like-for-like
 o Wehavenowseentwoyearsof
growth inROIandtheDublin
marketis demonstrablystronger
thantherestof thecountry
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Overview
2015 was another very successful year for the Group with double-digit 
system sales growth, and I am particularly pleased with the strong 
performance of new stores in the UK, where we achieved a record 
number of openings. This excellent performance is the result of a 
relentless focus on driving our digital offering through investment and 
innovation, ambitious targets for new store openings and focusing 
on franchisee profitability. 
We had a good year in the Republic of Ireland despite currency headwinds, 
with growth driven by improved performance from digital channels.
Internationally, we have ceased operating directly in the German market, 
having entered into a strategic joint venture arrangement, which acquired 
the largest pizza delivery chain in the country. I am also encouraged by 
our continued progress in Switzerland.
Our strategy remains simple and clear. We aim to be the number one 
pizza company in each neighbourhood in which we operate, through 
a commitment to offering the best product, service and quality to 
our customers.
UKandROI
UK
The UK business delivered an impressive set of results from the 869 stores 
that were trading at the year-end (2014: 813). System sales were 16.8% 
ahead, driven by strong like-for-like performance with growth of 11.7%. 
Like-for-like order volumes were ahead by 9% whilst average order value 
grew by 2.4%, helped by an increased proportion of bundle deals offering 
value for money.
We believe that our continued focus on the three priorities set out in our 
preliminary announcement last year remains fundamental to our 
success in the UK:
 o e-commerce: We have continued to increase investment in our digital 
offering, driving a higher number of customer visits, improved conversion 
rates and larger order values.
 o New store openings: The rate of openings accelerated in the period 
with a record number of 61 new stores in the UK in 2015; these 
continue to perform well, providing a foundation for future growth 
and confirming our long-term opportunity.
 o Franchisee profitability: The Group has maintained its focus on 
franchisee profitability by continuing to pass on cost savings, therefore 
increasing the appetite for further investment by franchisees.
SUMMARY
DAVID WILD
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 07
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
In July 2015 we launched our mobile responsive website which adapts 
and responds to the mobile device that the customer is using. Enhanced 
customer usability ultimately drives sales and profitability through 
improved engagement and conversion rates. During the fourth quarter 
we introduced the one-touch order button, which allows for credit card 
details and favourite baskets to be saved for future use, making the 
experience even more convenient. More enhancements are planned 
for the year ahead.
Brand
2015 saw our 30th anniversary in the UK as we concentrate on building 
our brand image. The success of our app downloads has enabled us to 
switch some advertising spend from digital to conventional, and we 
commenced sponsorship of the TV show ‘Hollyoaks’ in January 2015, 
which reaches 10 million viewers in the 16-34 age group. This has 
generated a media value of almost £12.0m, and has helped to drive 
spontaneous awareness of Domino’s to 73% and improve brand recognition 
among teens and families. Our sponsorship of the X-Factor app ensures 
brand salience during the key weekend evening slots (2015 downloads: 
2.4m). We launched our ‘Pizza Legends’ initiative, where customers can 
‘create their own’ pizza, with great success across all channels, with 
almost 0.4m creations to date. The Channel 4 documentary ‘A Slice of Life’ 
demonstrated the truly extraordinary passion that our team members 
have, with over one million views resulting in a significant increase 
in recruitment applications.
Product
We continue to innovate, refresh and improve our product range to 
respond to changing customer demand: in terms of pizza development 
we saw the introduction of the Tikka Pizza and we reintroduced the hot 
dog stuffed crust. In stores we slowed oven speeds to allow for a longer 
cook time and to increase the quality of our finished product across 
the range.
The ‘basket’ composition has continued to evolve in the UK, as the 
Group has focused on providing value oriented, full meal solutions 
through bundle offers. On a like-for-like basis, pizza volumes are 8.1% 
ahead, side orders are 12.1% ahead, while dessert and drink volumes 
are 14.8% and 32.7% ahead of 2014 respectively.
e-commerce
The Group’s investment in e-commerce software development increased 
significantly in 2015 and it is expected to rise further in 2016, reflecting 
our continued commitment to providing the business, our customers and 
franchisees with a best-in-class digital platform. In the UK, e-commerce 
sales now represent 77.7% of all delivered sales, up from 70.8% in 2014, 
with app-based sales accounting for 48.6% of online sales. Being 
digitally enabled allows us to drive further growth in the UK business.
Digital channels deliver a number of benefits for both the consumer 
and our franchisees. From a consumer perspective, promotional offers 
are more easily accessed, ensuring that consumers get the best value. 
Franchisees benefit through store labour efficiencies and being better 
able to target local marketing campaigns, particularly through customer 
relationship management.
As a result of this strategy online orders in the UK were 28.6% ahead and 
average order value was 1.7% ahead of last year. App-based orders were 
41.1% ahead and order value was 2.0% ahead. 11.5m customers have 
downloaded the app.
Despite these strong results we are striving to deliver further digital 
innovation in order to improve our customer experience even more. 
DURING THE FOURTH QUARTER WE INTRODUCED THE ONE-TOUCH ORDER BUTTON.
MORE ENHANCEMENTS ARE PLANNED 
FOR THE YEAR AHEAD. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 08
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
UKandROI continued
UK continued
New stores
2015 saw record store openings of 61 in the UK, bringing the total 
portfolio to 869 (2014: 813). The performance of these new stores has 
been excellent with average weekly unit sales (‘AWUS’) 14.5% ahead of 
similar openings in 2014. These include both virgin territories and those 
existing areas which have been ‘split’, increasing density, improving service 
for customers, and increasing sales and profitability for franchisees. 
26 of the 61 stores opened were splits. We provide incentive packages 
to franchisees to encourage proactive opening of stores in areas that 
meet our strategic requirements for the estate, including lower address 
counts and splits. Depending on the nature of the incentive these may 
be spread over the life of the lease. The total incentives cost in 2015, 
including the impact from previous years, was £1.7m. Five stores were 
closed in 2015. Four of these were non-traditional formats, which had 
initially been launched as a trial in 2013 but did not generate sufficient 
volumes to make them viable. A full provision was made in 2014 for 
the costs associated with closing these stores. 
2015 SAW RECORD STORE 
OPENINGS OF 61 IN THE UK.
Franchisees
Our franchisees sit at the heart of everything we do. They have both 
driven and shared in our success. The Group is committed to ensuring 
that they are successful, and in 2015 profitability improved year on year, 
primarily as a result of the benign food price environment combined 
with the Group’s purchasing power. In 2015, we passed on savings 
of £11m from lower food costs, primarily from cheese and dough. 
The outlook remains favourable for 2016. 
Supply chain
We are particularly proud of our supply chain in the UK, which is one of 
the most sophisticated and efficient across the Domino’s global network. 
Our main facility is located at West Ashland, Milton Keynes, with a 
secondary plant in the North-west in Penrith, and we opened a satellite 
base in Livingston, Scotland, during the year. We have commenced our 
building project for a new main facility in Warrington which is due 
to open in early 2018, and are also opening a further satellite base in 
the South-west. Although the supply chain handled record volumes in 
2015, it did so whilst improving on already excellent service levels to 
stores, with delivered-on-time-to stores measures increasing to 99.8%.
It is our commitment to franchisees that we provide them with high 
quality product at low cost. Our philosophy is based on establishing 
long-term relationships and we are able to leverage the system’s buying 
power to secure the most competitive deals with quality suppliers. 
ROI
ROI delivered a good set of results despite currency headwinds, with 
system sales of €56.0m (2014: €51.7m) in local currency, with a sterling 
value of £40.7m (2014: £41.8m). In local currency sales were ahead by 
8.3%, but in sterling they were 2.7% behind, reflecting the relative 
strength of sterling against the euro. We now operate 47 stores across 
the ROI with the Dublin stores performing well and benefiting from the 
continued economic recovery. We are looking at upgrading and 
relocating our supply chain centre.
Our digital channels continue to improve in ROI. Online sales were 
30.4% ahead of 2014 and now represent 51.7% of delivered sales, 
up from 44.3% last year. App-based growth continues to drive digital 
adoption and now accounts for 60.2% of online sales, up from 46.9% 
in 2014. Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 09
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Outlook
Despite the volatile macroeconomic environment, 2015 has been a 
record year for system sales, and also saw us entering into a landmark 
joint venture transaction to transform our activities in Germany. In 
Switzerland, we are seeing encouraging signs of progress and have 
completed a programme of store refurbishments which are already 
showing some of the intended improvements. The UK and ROI business 
continues to set sales records, and we sold 82.4m pizzas in the year, 
averaging over 230,000 per day. We continue to exploit the opportunities 
of new technology to the full, with e-commerce now being the source of 
over two thirds of our total sales. This robust base gives us confidence 
for the future, and during 2016 we expect to be opening around 65 new 
stores and will be investing in additional supply chain centres in the UK 
and ROI. We have opened six stores in the UK and one store in Switzerland 
in 2016 already and we believe that significant growth remains possible 
in the core UK and ROI business for many years to come.
We have made a good start to 2016, although we are conscious 
of increasingly tough comparatives for the rest of the year.
DavidWild
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
2 March 2016
Switzerland
We made good progress in Switzerland with three relocations and four 
new store openings, resulting in 15 stores at the end of 2015 (2014: 11), 
all of which are under corporate ownership and operation. Despite the 
pressures within the Swiss economy, on retail sales in particular, following 
the upwards revaluation of the Swiss Franc at the beginning of 2015, 
our business managed to generate an increase in system sales of 18.4% 
in local currency to CHF17.0m (sterling: 21.0% and £11.7m). Like-for-like 
sales were 5.4% ahead of last year in local currency, with the mature 
store portfolio significantly improving profitability, although the country 
experienced a very hot summer with a negative impact on sales.
Underlying operating losses for the year were £1.3m (2014: £1.0m) 
with the increase reflecting the costs of training, food and labour costs 
associated with opening new stores. The increased profitability of the 
existing store portfolio gives us a solid base which allows us to continue 
building up the store network.
Germany
We announced in December 2015 that the Group has entered a strategic 
joint venture in Germany which has acquired the largest German pizza 
delivery chain. As a result of the transaction, the Group is no longer a 
direct operator in the German market. The transaction completed on 
1 February 2016 and we are excited by the prospects that a larger 
scale business in this market can generate. 
Most of our existing operations in Germany have been sold into the new 
joint venture. The remainder of the business has either closed down 
already or been earmarked for closure. The total result for Germany, 
which is shown as discontinued operations, is a loss of £9.6m, which 
includes underlying trading losses of £3.3m (2014: £7.3m).
OurPeople
I would like to thank the Domino’s team for their hard work. I also want 
to pay tribute to our franchisees whose tireless endeavours ensure that 
our customers continue to enjoy great pizzas at great prices every day 
– whether ordered online or by phone, delivered to the door or collected 
in store.
