 dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
18
Chief Executive’s  
report
Introduction 
I am pleased to announce that the Group 
delivered revenue growth in line with market 
guidance. Our EBITDA and profit before tax are 
both marginally ahead of market guidance.
This performance is a result of continued strong 
organic growth in the high-margin and long-
term recurring revenues generated by our core 
multichannel marketing product, dotmailer, both 
in the UK and, increasingly, overseas.
Financial highlights 
  30.06.15 30.06.14 %
  (£m) (£m) increase
Revenue 21.4 16.2 32%
EBITDA 6.8 4.7 45%
Net assets 18.4 14.2 30%
EPS 1.63 1.24 31%
Review of 2014/2015 
Revenue performance, which grew in line  
with expectations, was driven by strong  
growth of 32% across the Group’ s core  
high-margin email and multi-channel  
automation SaaS platform.
Simone Barratt
Chief Executive Officer
This strong organic growth was underpinned 
by a combination of successful new client 
wins in the mid-market and small enterprise 
sectors and, in particular, amongst Magento 
eCommerce platform users. There has also 
been healthy growth in recurring revenue from 
existing clients, and the Group has signed up  
a higher proportion of clients under contracts 
than in the previous period.
The Group continues to win notable clients in 
the UK in both the B2B and B2C sectors. In 
the past year these include: Honeywell, Unison, 
Ordnance Survey, The All England Lawn T ennis 
and Croquet Club, Knight Frank, Sony Music, 
Links of London, Sole Trader, Ladbrokes and 
Natural History Museum.   
We have also seen a strong performance from 
our enabling professional services offerings 
with an increase in revenue from £1.8m to 
approximately £2.8m, an increase of 56% year 
on year with margins in the region of 60%.  
During the year, the Group’ s average monthly 
spend per client rose by approximately 41% 
from £315 in the prior financial year to £445 in 
2014/15. This, combined with a focus on longer 
term contracts (94% of clients that signed up 
in the year are on contracts between 12 and 
24 months), and client retention has resulted in 
higher client lifetime values.
International growth 
Revenues from the US performed strongly, 
increasing from US$1.4m to US$3.0m, an 
increase of over 114% compared to the same 
period last year. The East Coast sales office, 
located in New York, continues to focus on 
sector niches including Magento eCommerce 
platform users and higher value small enterprise 
clients. As a result the Group has secured  
a number of new clients, including Simple 
Human, La Vie en Rose, Sail Plein Air Inc & 
T eam Velocity Marketing.
The Group has also made good early progress 
in the Asia Pacific region and the Group has 
established strong partner relationships in 
Australia and solid revenue pipelines building 
through these channels. 
We are in the process of undertaking a 
pilot utilising the localisation and translation 
capabilities of our platform in LATAM with  
a partner. 
Easy to use yet incredibly 
powerful, dotmailer is 
increasingly becoming 
the platform of choice 
for digital marketing 
professionals.
Strategic report dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
19
Magento Connector 
The quality of dotdigital’ s connector into the 
Magento eCommerce platform and the Group’ s 
ability to build strong relationships with Magento 
partners has resulted in significant increased 
revenues during the year.
The number of our clients now using dotmailer’ s 
Magento Connector has more than doubled 
during the financial year. The average monthly 
recurring revenue spend for a typical Magento 
customer has also grown to approximately 
£1,070 per month, a 53% increase on the 
previous year. 
Magento Connector UK clients now include 
The Royal Trust Collection, Fred Perry, Boodles, 
Calor Gas and Hornby.
We have also signed a number of Magento 
Systems Integration partners as resellers for 
the dotmailer platform, including Gorilla, a Gold 
Magento Solution Partner with offices across 
the US and Europe, and named as Magento’ s 
Omni-channel Partner of the Year in April 2015. 
Technology, product development  
and support
Within the year we have restructured our 
technology, product development and support 
teams. The teams are now clearly aligned with 
operational support for our clients and our 
infrastructure, or on our product roadmap. 
 
Also, within the year we have revised our 
approach to our product development and 
release process. Our new approach has 
delivered increasingly innovative software in an 
agile manner, but in a more structured quarterly 
release process. The key tenets of our product 
development strategy remain ‘ease of use’ 
and ‘ease of integration’. Our highly skilled and 
creative team of developers continue to create 
functionality that makes it easy for our clients to 
deliver complex marketing processes, and easy 
for marketers to integrate with the best-of-breed 
platforms they already use. 
People 
After a two-year term as a Non-Executive 
Director, I took over the CEO role on  
24 February 2015. Peter Simmonds stepped 
down as Deputy CEO on 30 June 2015 and  
I am delighted Peter remains on the Board  
as a Non-Executive Director. 
Peter’s leaving party
Our first campaign 
generated over £6m 
worth of business and  
set the scene for 
everything we do today. 
It’s fair to say we’ve not 
looked back since!
Phil O’Sullivan
Marketing Director
Newmarket Holidays dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
20
2013/2014 was a year of important investment 
in new hires and the appointment of new senior 
management. During 2014/2015 these new 
hires have been successfully integrated into the 
business. The senior management team have 
implemented new structures and processes 
to support our ambitious growth plans whilst 
driving operational efficiencies for the business. 
As a result we have delivered a 32% increase 
in revenue, a 45% increase in EBITDA for a 
nominal 8% increase in headcount.
Another key hire in April 2015 was Chief Privacy 
Officer, James Koons, a high-profile industry 
expert who is based in the US. As outlined in 
the Risks and Mitigation section of this Report, 
our reputation with ISPs around the world and 
our knowledge of and approach to global data 
privacy legislation are critical to providing our 
clients with the highest level of protection and 
security and to ensuring we continue to deliver 
their emails around the world.
Cash generation 
The business continues to be highly cash 
generative with cash at the end of the period 
standing at £11.9m, an increase of 28% on the 
prior year (2014: £9.3m) after capital expenditure 
and product development of £2.3m. The Group 
continues to be debt free. Highly efficient cash 
collection processes, combined with over 
45% of clients paying retainers by direct debit, 
contributed to the Group’ s strong cash position 
at the year end.
Dividend policy 
I am pleased to announce that the Board has 
conducted a review of the business plans for the 
next three years including evaluating the cash 
needs for increased investment in both organic 
growth and capital expenditure and has decided 
that an increase in dividend can be proposed 
this year.
Therefore, subject to approval at the AGM in 
December 2015, the Board propose that the 
Group will pay a dividend of 0.36 pence per 
share, payable at the end of January 2016.
Growth strategy  
During the year we evaluated a number of 
potential acquisition opportunities in the email 
marketing space. However, as in prior years 
none of the businesses evaluated were judged 
to be likely to create long-term shareholder 
value when execution and integration risks 
were factored in. We will, of course, continue to 
consider acquisition opportunities if they arise.
We anticipate further organic growth in the  
UK market and will continue to offer our 
products directly to a wide range of industry 
sectors. Growth will come from winning 
business from competitors as well as from 
developing and promoting additional and 
increasingly sophisticated personalisation and 
automation product functionality to our existing 
customer base.
We have established a strong brand presence in 
the US, especially in the growing B2C and B2B 
eCommerce sectors, and we anticipate further 
penetration and growth. Growth to date has 
been as a result of the quality of our connector 
to the Magento platform and our Gold Standard 
Partnership. Going forward, we will continue to 
focus on growing our network and relationships 
with the system Integrators who service and 
influence the Magento community and on 
continuing to broaden and deepen our product 
offering to this sector.
We are pleased with the early results of a pilot in 
LATAM (Latin America), commencing in October 
2014 and conducted with a partner utilising 
our localisation technologies to translate our 
interface to the local market. 
In addition, we expect to augment this growth 
through further expansion; into the Americas 
and Asia Pacific, and via strategic and channel 
partners and resellers. 
Chief Executive’s  
report continued
Over the past seven 
years, revenues have 
grown 346% from £4.8m 
to £21.4m (year to June 
2015). This equates to a 
seven-year CAGR of 24%, 
which is higher than the 
market growth in that 
time, reflecting market 
share gains.
Strategic report
James Koons 
Chief Privacy Officer Naylors 
Case study 
Case study
Rapid growth
Since going digital, Naylors has transformed from a 
local equestrian and country wear retailer into a highly a 
successful ecommerce business on the national stage. 
Since 2012 they’ve been working with ecommerce 
agency Space 48 to develop their offering on the 
Magento Enterprise platform. 
Impressive results
For the email solution, they initially used Mailchimp, but they rapidly 
bumped up against the limits of a free solution. That was when their 
ecommerce agency suggested they look at dotmailer.
One of the first attractions they could see from migrating to the dotmailer 
was the ability to integrate their Magento customer purchasing data. This 
has been used to implement a fully integrated multichannel strategy that 
makes best use of automation to provide seamless transactions and the 
best possible customer service. They are looking forward to introducing 
even more automation in the future. 
Since making the shift to dotmailer the results have been impressive. 
Naylors have seen massive returns, A 219% increase in revenue, 186% 
increase in transactions, average order value increase of 11%, and a 21% 
increase in conversion from email to purchase. 
dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
21
dotmailer’s people are very 
informative and a source of 
inspiration. The results we’ve  
seen of working with Magento 
and dotmailer have been 
extremely powerful.
 
James Atkinson
Partner at Naylors dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
22
TUI  
Case study
A global operation
TUI AG is the largest leisure, travel and tourism company in 
the world. It owns travel agencies, hotels, airlines, cruise ships 
and retail stores. Its major subsidiaries include TUI Airlines, 
the largest holiday fleet in Europe, as well as UK-based tour 
operator Thomson. In total the brand covers nearly 80 tour 
operators operating from 18 countries.
An integrated success
Using dotmailer they’ve implemented a successful three-year 
programme to integrate email, CRM, web and sales reporting. 
The dotmailer platform has increased their ability to send out 
effective communications, whilst allowing TUI staff a deeper 
understanding of their market and customers.
© COPYRIGHT SKIBOUND 2014 VIEW ONLINE UNSUBSCRIBE
PREPARE TO GO
A dedicated tour operator 
organises the trip. You get 
your own site for your 
detais and resources
3
PROMOTE
Promote your tour with our 
tailor made videos, images 
and presentations
2
FIND A QUOTE
Find your tour and get a 
quote, then we can discuss 
and tailor your options
1
SKIBOUND HELPS YOU EVERY STEP OF THE WAY
01273 244570

Call Us
Planning a school ski trip to one of our
destinations? 
CC 0:00 / 3:04
No student ever forgets their school ski trip, or the teacher who organised it!
USA
From the freshly groomed slopes in Vermont to 
the 'Greatest Snow on Earth' in Utah, the USA is 
quite simply the ultimate skiing destination. For 
a sure-fire route to superstar status, why not 
combine your USA ski trip with a cheeky city 
stopover in New York, Boston or San Francisco.
More info >>
Italy
The unique atmosphere and the friendly 
welcome from the locals makes Italy a 
perennially popular ski destination. Add to the 
mix extensive skiing, sunny slopes, great 
scenery, fascinating culture and fresh powder - 
now that's what skiing is all about!
More info >>
Canada
Canada is home to jaw-dropping scenery, 
immense snowfalls and epic ski resorts. Here 
you'll also receive a genuinely warm welcome 
and exceptional value for money... Canada has 
to be close to the top of everyone's wish list.
More info >>
France
With an extensive choice of high altitude and 
snow-sure resorts,along with our excellent 
Clubhotels located high in the French Alps, our 
school ski trips to France allows you to ski in 
some of the world's most prestigious resorts at 
affordable prices.
More info >>
View our 2014/2015 ski offers >>
F antastic
monthly ski
deals...
The school ski trip is one of the best memories of  a 
student's school life and, with over 29 years of experience, 
we have sent over ½ million students on memorable ski 
holidays across the world.
We are extremely proud that school teachers recognise 
SkiBound as the market leader in operating exclusive 
Clubhotels in France, and as school ski experts to North 
America and Italy.
So, if you still haven't booked your 14/15 school ski trip, 
then get in touch as we have some unbeatable ski deals.
QUOTE REQUEST ONLINE BROCHURES CLUBHOTELS DESTINATIONS HOME
01273 244570

Contact Us
View this email online
Case study
dotmailer hit the sweet spot 
between advanced features 
and simple operation. It gives 
us a platform that will improve 
customer service, reduce 
duplication, and drive much 
higher levels of customer 
insight and intimacy.
Matt Royal
CRM Manager at TUI Travel PLC 
UK Education Division
100% 9:41 AM 100% 9:41 AM
SkiBound | Olivier House | 18 Marine Parade | Brighton | East Sussex | BN2 1TL 
© SkiBound 2014
01273 265 267
WANT TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT AVAILABILITY AT OUR CLUBHOTELS?

View all of our deals >>
Includes return flights, overseas transfers, 7 nights half 
board accommodation, SkiBound representative
Includes 6 nights half board 
accommodation 
New Year offers...
Includes 7 nights half board accommodation, return 
flights, transfers and a SkiBound representative 
Includes return flights, overseas transfers, 7 nights half 
board accommodation, SkiBound representative
Christmas offers...
Extremely low prices from
Email us today!
Visit our website
Call: 01273 265 267
Unsubscribe   Forward to a friend View in browser dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
23
Email delivery remains a high priority and we  
will retain a small physical infrastructure 
presence in key regions to act as delivery nodes. 
This ensures we have full control over our IP 
address ranges and their reputation, which  
are crucial for email delivery.
These additional dotmailer instances will 
allow us to scale and spread risk, putting us 
in stronger position to continue to deliver on 
our customers expectations and to handle 
continued growth.
The model of growing internationally by focusing 
on key partners has proven to be successful 
and profitable in the US. The Group aims  
to take the same focused approach to growing 
our new office in Australia, identifying a number 
of key partners and resellers who have an 
existing footprint in Australia and the broader 
Asia Pacific region. 
Going forward, we will deepen existing 
relationships, and identify new local and global 
strategic partners to fast track our penetration 
into specific sectors, niches or geographies. 
The Group will also exploit what we believe to 
be an opportunity in the market – particularly 
in the US – to provide an alternative email and 
multi-channel automation platform to a network 
of mid-sized resellers and we are currently hiring 
to exploit this opportunity. 
This growth will be supported by a technology 
programme that delivers scale internationally. 
We are encouraged by the response we have 
had from partners and see this as a key tenet  
for our growth strategy in future. 
Technology and infrastructure
We continue to invest in technology and 
infrastructure to cater for a growing international 
customer base. dotdigital has recently 
commenced a three-year hybrid-cloud 
infrastructure project – Project Cirrus – with  
the key aim of deploying our platform into  
new territories: North America (to support 
growth in the Americas), and Australia (to 
support growth in Asia Pacific). This will provide 
our clients with increased performance and 
resilience and the ability to keep their data  
within their economic region. 
Chief Executive’s  
report continued Chief Executive’s  
report continued
Looking forward 
The dotmailer email marketing and multi-
channel automation platform continues 
to perform strongly both in the UK and, 
increasingly, internationally.
In readiness for the next phase of our growth 
I have created a Senior Executive T eam that 
sits between the Plc Board and the cross-
departmental Operations Board. In addition 
to myself and Milan Patel, CFO, the Senior 
Executive T eam comprises Sharon Head – 
previously Director of Operations, now Chief 
Operating Officer, and Steve Shaw – previously 
Director of T echnology, now Chief T echnology 
Officer. This structure will allow us to allocate 
senior executive sponsorship to key global 
strategic partnerships. For clarification, these are 
not Plc Board appointments. 
T ogether with the recent appointment of Anup 
Khera to the role of Senior Vice President (SVP) 
of Global Sales, and Phil Draper as Marketing 
Director, the Group is well placed with a  
strong team of senior executives to deliver  
future results.
Further growth in the US will be supported by 
new sales offices in the MidWest and West 
Coast. These offices will be located to mirror the 
concentrations of Magento systems integrators, 
allowing us to forge stronger relationships and to 
provide those Integrators with local support.
Rohan Lock, who has headed the UK sales 
team for five years, is now responsible for the 
Asia Pacific region, based in Australia. He has 
considerable experience of building an effective 
sales organisation in the UK and is expected to 
help the Group accelerate sales growth in this 
region. Hiring a sales team has already begun 
and early indications from the Asia Pacific region 
show strong interest from high-value strategic 
channel partners and a growing pipeline. 
The initiatives to grow our 
international presence are 
now delivering a strong 
pipeline of new clients 
particularly in the mid-size 
online retail space which 
continues to be a core 
focus for 2015.
dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
24
Strategic report
In addition to channel partners, resellers are 
important for the Group’ s growth ambitions 
including further penetration into the US as 
well as for entering new markets. T o this end 
the Group plans to appoint a Global Reseller 
Director who will be based in the US. There 
have been a number of acquisitions in the  
email marketing sector and the Directors  
believe this has created an opportunity for 
dotmailer to replace their current platform. 
The ongoing investment in technology and 
product development, and the resulting  
new multi-channel automation functionality 
launched in early 2015, has helped the  
Group build new revenues. The Directors believe 
this will increase both the quality and quantum 
of recurring revenues from our technology,  
and also from a recently introduced range of 
new productised multi-channel automation 
services offerings.
 In summary, the demand for email marketing 
and multi-channel automation continues to be 
strong both in the UK and internationally. The 
Board believes that the dotmailer platform, 
with its ‘ease of use’ proposition, its specialist 
connectors, its specialist professional services, 
and now its growing list of global strategic 
partnerships, is well placed to continue to 
generate strong organic growth in revenue, not 
just in the UK, but increasingly overseas as well.
Phil Draper 
Marketing Director
Steve Shaw 
Chief T echnology Officer
Anup Khera 
SVP Global Sales
Sharon Head 
Chief Operating Officer FairFX 
Case study
Case study
Easy automation
FairFX switched to using dotmailer a year ago. They 
have implemented a number of dotmailer’ s automation 
tools, all of which are generating additional turnover  
for the business. 
All the results. No more effort
With no ongoing input once the original content and parameters 
for the automation campaign have been set up it’ s a win win for the 
client. The results of the campaign are increases year on year, 17% 
more visits to the website this year, 73% increase in conversion 
rates, 103% increase in transactions and 121% increase in revenue. 
Within just two days of launching the first programme FairFX 
generated additional turnover running into five figures. Over a year 
this adds up to over a million pounds of additional revenue from a 
totally automated service.
dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
25
dotmailer is all about delivering 
service that goes beyond the 
norm. They are very effective 
and professional team who know 
what they’re talking about, and 
help me to get the best out of  
my digital marketing.
Lisa Stone 
Marketing Manager 
FairFX
