 Chairman’s 
statement
dotdigital has delivered great results for 
the 2014/15 financial year. The Group 
continues to be cash generative with 
no debt and we finished the year with 
cash reserves of £11.9m, an increase 
of 28% on the prior year, after capital 
expenditure and product development 
costs of £2.3m. The Group returned  
a profit before tax of £5.2m for the  
year, which was ahead marginally of 
market expectations. 
Our change in emphasis of how we sell to 
clients outlined last year has been successful 
and our average monthly spend by customer 
has increased by 41%. In addition 94% of new 
clients signed in the past year have signed 
longer-term contracts giving the Group greater 
visibility on future revenue. We have also made 
significant progress with Magento customers, 
who tend to be higher volume senders, and 
these clients now spend considerably more  
with us on a monthly basis than other clients. 
Frank Beechinor-Collins
Non-Executive Chairman
During this past year we have focused on 
building our indirect sales through partners and 
distributors and we have signed a number of 
high-profile partnership agreements in North 
America and Asia Pacific. 
We continue to make good progress in the 
US and our business there has grown by over 
114%, signing a number of significant new 
clients in that market. We also established an 
office in Australia which will focus on driving 
sales across the Asia Pacific region, primarily 
through carefully selected partners. This 
operation is now headed up by Rohan Lock, 
who for the past five years, was head of sales  
in the UK. We’ve already seen a good level of 
sign ups through our partners 
Our professional services division has continued 
to grow in the past year, achieving nearly £3m of 
sales, up 56% on the previous year ,with good 
profit margins. We have invested considerably 
in our infrastructure, ensuring that the business 
has the ability to offer the service expected 
by our customers as our business expands 
in both the volume of emails we send and the 
geographical markets in which we operate. 
Development in our dotmailer platform 
continues to ensure it conforms to scalability, 
localisation and compliance in our new markets 
and product updates and enhancements have 
been well received by our customers. 
As with previous years, our policy on 
acquisitions remains unchanged. Our  
continued focus is on organic growth but  
we will consider acquisition opportunities, 
should they arise, and only if they allow us  
to accelerate growth in a market or provide  
us with a technolological advantage.
Our international revenues 
have grown by 97% – 
driven by the focus on 
geographic expansion
dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
2 An evolving team 
During the past year we have evolved the plc 
and operational boards to ensure we have the 
requisite skills to grow our business in line with 
market expectations. Peter Simmonds, who  
has been CEO for the past eight years, left at 
the end of June 2015. We identified Simone 
Barratt as Peter’ s successor in 2014 and during 
the past year both Peter and Simone have 
worked on the transition in the months leading 
up to Peter’ s retirement and Simone taking on 
the role of CEO. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank Peter for the considerable 
effort he has put in to building the business 
and ensuring we have effective processes and 
controls in place so that we can achieve growth 
whilst remaining profitable and cash generative. 
We are delighted that Peter continues as a 
significant shareholder of the business and he 
has also agreed to remain on the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director. 
Simone has an extensive knowledge of the 
email marketing space and her previous 
experience as a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company before becoming CEO has meant she 
had an excellent understanding of the business. 
Simone has focused on building the executive 
management team to ensure the business has 
the requisite skills as we progress through this 
stage of our evolution.
Milan Patel continues to do an excellent  
job as CFO under Simone, with a focus on 
effective planning and good financial control, 
thus ensuring our ongoing profitability and  
cash generation. 
Founders Simon Bird and Tink T aylor continue 
as Board members and to play a strategic 
role in the business. Both have provided great 
support to the executive management team. 
Tink has been instrumental in helping our 
overseas expansion in not just North America 
but in Central America and Australia. Simon 
identified and recruited Steve Shaw who has 
taken over as  IT Director and who, in turn, has 
made great strides in both the development of 
our main product suite and the infrastructure 
required for running our platform. 
On behalf of all our stakeholders, I would 
like to thank the team at dotdigital for their 
fantastic contribution to another successful 
year. I would also like to say a special thank you 
to the executive management team for their 
continued commitment, hard work and passion 
in developing the business.
Outlook 
The outlook for dotdigital over the coming years 
is very promising with interesting opportunities 
both in the UK and in overseas markets. We 
plan to continue to grow our business via a 
direct sales model but, increasingly, we see 
indirect channel and partnerships as a very 
effective way to achieve significant growth 
internationally. The rebranding and repositioning 
of the business has helped fulfil our ambition 
to be seen as a supplier of choice in the mid-
market. With this team and the strategy outlined 
here we look forward to another successful  
year ahead.
Frank Beechinor-Collins
Non-Executive Chairman
dotdigital Group Plc
Annual Report 2014/2015
3
