 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 02
STRATEGIC REPORT
Group at a glance
TO FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE TO FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE
ONE PIZZA AT A TIME ONE PIZZA AT A TIME ONE PIZZA AT A TIME
Wearedrivendayin,dayoutbyourbrandpurpose:
It taps into the entrepreneurial spirit embodied 
by our franchisees. It recognises the opportunity 
the brand has afforded to people to pursue their 
own dream of business ownership, populating 
our company culture with stories of ‘driver to 
manager to single store franchisee to multi-store 
business owner’. 
It inspires us to commit relentlessly to delivering 
one pizza at a time. We know that downtime is 
precious, we know that money is still tight, and 
we understand that delivered food cannot be a 
disappointment. We know that we have to deliver 
a hot, fresh, tasty pizza when we say we will.
It aligns with our desire never to stand still and 
innovate continually to improve our product, service, 
image and increasingly our use of technology. 
Innovation is in the DNA of the brand, be that 
from the invention of the ‘spoodle’, our patented 
heatwave technology, or the development 
of online and mobile ordering platforms.
This inspires and motivates us on three levels:
931
TOTAL STORES
87
FRANCHISEES
10.5
AVERAGE STORES 
PER FRANCHISEE
STORES
UK 869
RepublicofIreland  47
Switzerland* 15
*Corporateownership.
REVENUE £m
UK 283.7
RepublicofIreland 21.4
Switzerland  11.7
Howweoperate:
SUPPLY CHAIN
Our passion for only the finest quality ingredients ensures we 
continue to maintain an excellent relationship with our suppliers. 
We negotiate the best commercial terms and have many long-term 
supplier agreements in place. Our Supply Chain Centres continue 
to lead the way in relation to standards of excellence throughout 
Domino’s worldwide.
FRANCHISEES
Our network of exceptional franchisees remains committed to 
promoting the Domino’s brand. Their entrepreneurial spirit and 
drive ensure our continued success on the high street. It is our 
job to support our franchisees in their efforts to run profitable 
businesses and to ensure that high brand standards 
are achieved in all stores.
1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 3
ENTREPRENEURIAL 
SPIRIT
DEDICATED TO 
INNOVATION
KEEPING OUR 
PROMISES
93 +5+2+z 89 +7+4+z Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 03
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Leadingthewayin:
100
%
MOZZARELLA 
CHEESE
10m
APP DOWNLOADS
1m
FACEBOOK FANS
11 .7
%
LFL SALES 
GROWTH
We take great pride in the quality of our 
products and we work hard with our 
suppliers to make sure that each pizza 
uses the best possible ingredients. This 
means our customers can be confident 
that they are buying carefully sourced and 
prepared foods without hydrogenated fats 
or artificial flavourings and colourings.
We have made the transition from a 
bricks-and-mortar retailer to a genuine 
e-commerce retailer. We constantly strive 
to be at the cutting edge of technological 
innovation, as demonstrated by our initial 
commitment to online ordering in the 1990s, 
or the more recent development of our 
mobile app platforms. We are relentless 
in our pursuit of using technology to make 
our customers’ lives that little bit easier.
We take pride in the image we portray 
to customers. We invest our national 
advertising fund to help build the profile of 
the brand amongst our target audience. We 
have recently refreshed our store design to 
better celebrate the theatre of making fresh 
pizza. Our new store design reflects the 
freshness of the ingredients and provides 
customers with a window into the world of 
pizza making, showcasing that every one 
of our pizzas is made fresh to order. 
We are driven, day in, day out by our brand 
purpose ‘to feed the power of possible, one 
pizza at a time’. This desire to never stand 
still and push forward, be it in terms of store 
openings, technological and product 
innovation, customer service and the 
support for our franchisees underpins 
our performance.
PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY
ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE
Ourbusinessmodel 11 Ourstrategy 14 Ourmarkets 12 Seemore:
