 Directors’ Report: Business Review
4 / www.dtz.com
Chairman’s statement
Since my previous report to shareholders, economic
conditions have continued to deteriorate, especially
as a result of the credit crisis prompted by the sub-prime
mortgage difﬁculties in the United States. These have had
a substantial impact on property markets generally and,
inevitably, our business. Despite this, I am pleased to report
that underlying proﬁtability is at a creditable level and in
line with revised market expectations.
These changed market conditions have led us to make
some signiﬁcant exceptional charges for the full year.
We regard these, together with signiﬁcant cost savings
throughout the business and a slower pace in the continuing
implementation of our global strategy, as essential
ingredients in the prudent management of the business
which will ensure that we are well placed in the future to
beneﬁt from the return of more normal market conditions
and thereby deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
Results
Revenue increased substantially by 44% to £446.3 million
(2007: £310.3 million) boosted by the impact of the
Donaldsons and Barnicke acquisitions, the full year
effect of our North Asia acquisition, and initial returns
from the substantial investment we have made in
additional staff resources in previous years.
Despite this increase in revenue, proﬁt before tax and
exceptional items reduced by 46% to £20.6 million
(2007: £38.0 million). This was largely the result of the
change in mix of our income streams with our capital
markets business particularly affected by difﬁcult
economic conditions, the delay between recruitment of
additional staff and their capacity to generate revenue,
and adverse trading conditions.
In the light of the degree of exposure of DTZ Rockwood
and our other investments in North America to these
conditions, we have decided to make an impairment charge
of £11.7 million against these investments. We are also
making exceptional charges to reﬂect the reorganisation
costs associated with the Donaldsons acquisition and
redundancy charges associated with the staff reductions
needed in the light of prevailing market conditions. The net
result of these is that proﬁt before tax and after exceptional
items is £5.6 million. Further details of this and the Group’s
cash position are given in the ﬁnancial review on page 23.
As a prudent measure in difﬁcult and uncertain conditions,
the Board has decided to recommend a reduction in the
ﬁnal dividend to 3.0 pence per share (2007: 8.0 pence)
bringing the total dividend for the year to 6.5 pence (2007:
11.5 pence). The reduction in the total dividend is broadly
in line with the movement in the Group’s underlying
pre-tax proﬁt.
Strategy
The Board ﬁrmly believes that, especially in difﬁcult market
conditions, it is vital to remain focused on the development
of the Group’s strategy. This is to work with clients to create
leading-edge property, investment and business solutions
“We will use all our people,
our skills, our assets and our
connections to continue to build
our market presence in what are
undeniably challenging times.
We believe that the broad spread
of our activities over many
geographic markets and sectors
will stand us in good stead.”
Tim Melville-Ross, Group Chairman DTZ Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 / 5
Chairman’s statement
worldwide. It is precisely because we have been pursuing
this strategy for some years that the Group is able to
generate proﬁts in these difﬁcult market conditions, albeit at
reduced levels. Both our geographic and skill diversiﬁcations
have broadened the range of income sources to give us
some protection from adverse developments in certain areas
and thereby improve the overall quality of our earnings.
A good example of this is the successful merger with and
integration of Donaldsons. This was an important milestone
for us, strengthening our position still further in the UK and
the rest of the EMEA region across many of our skill lines,
and especially in the retail sector.
The need for us to diversify across skill lines as well as
geographically is reinforced by our recent experience in
the United States. Because our strategy and presence is
less well established there to date, with a disproportionate
exposure to capital markets activities, we have been more
affected by the current adverse market conditions. We
therefore fully intend to continue with the development
of a full range of real estate advisory services in all key
North American markets to augment our existing signiﬁcant
presence in a number of locations, not least because of
the ending of our alliance with the Staubach Company.
However, in recognition of current conditions expansion in
the immediate future will clearly be done at a slower pace.
By contrast, the already diversiﬁed and well established
businesses in Asia Paciﬁc saw increases in both revenue
and proﬁtability. We continued during the year with the
successful integration of our acquisitions in North Asia,
Australia and New Zealand, and to build our business in
India. In China we maintained market leadership and
increased coverage with further ofﬁce openings.
Through our focus on cross-border services and skills,
we now have a wide range of very valuable capabilities
within the Group. It is therefore important that we continue
to invest in these and manage them effectively to ensure
that we continue to grow our market share and thereby
deliver the best possible returns to shareholders.
People
As already announced, our Chief Executive, Mark Struckett,
has indicated his desire to step down after 14 years in the
post. Under his leadership, the Group has grown its
geographic and service coverage very signiﬁcantly. When
Mark was appointed Chief Executive, the Group was
principally a UK based business employing just over a
thousand people, and turnover in his ﬁrst year in ofﬁce was
£58 million. Turnover has increased more than seven-fold
during Mark’s term of ofﬁce, and the Group now offers a
wide range of real estate services in 150 cities in 45
countries, employing some 12,500 people. His commitment
and far-sighted leadership have been invaluable to the
Group and its shareholders, and I would like to take this
opportunity to express the Board’s grateful thanks for his
long and distinguished service. We are also grateful for
Mark’s willingness to assist with an orderly transition to
his successor when appointed.
The commitment and resilience of our staff are even
more important when business conditions are difﬁcult,
and I would like to thank them on behalf of the Board
and shareholders for the great efforts that they are putting
into maximising the Group’s business opportunities in
these conditions.
Outlook
It is difﬁcult to predict how ﬁnancial and property markets
throughout the world will develop over the next two or
three years. I will only say that we will use all of our people,
our skills, our assets and our connections to continue to
build our market presence in what are undeniably
challenging times. In addition, we believe that the broad
spread of our activities over many geographic markets
and sectors will stand us in good stead even in a prolonged
downturn and should ensure that we are best positioned
to deliver growth and value for our shareholders on the
recovery of ﬁnancial and real estate markets worldwide.
Tim Melville-Ross
Chairman
9 July 2008
Total Dividend per share
6.5p
2007: 11.5p
Revenue
£446.3m
2007: £310.3m
