 Directors’ Report: Business Review
6 / www.dtz.com
CEO’s strategic review
Overview
Following many years of strength, the past ﬁnancial year
has seen substantial changes in the economy and real
estate markets.
The shock to the ﬁnancial systems from the credit crisis
that started in late summer 2007 had a quick and traumatic
impact on several of the world’s main property investment
markets. Initially, the most substantial effects were seen in
the UK and the USA with large falls in pricing and activity
levels. This spread to property investment markets in other
geographic areas and, by our year end, was affecting
most of the world’s main markets. However, occupational
markets remained generally robust against a background
of reasonable occupier demand, attractive current
availability ratios and a development supply that, while
rising, is at lower levels than in past cycles. Financially,
our business thus saw one signiﬁcant area of its activity
(capital markets) change from being very strong to very
weak relative to historic norms while the remainder of the
business saw a much steadier environment.
In addition to the markets, the structure of our business
has also changed signiﬁcantly. In early July 2007, the Group
completed the largest ever merger of commercial real estate
advisory businesses in Europe – the merger of DTZ and
Donaldsons. This acquisition assisted the Group in key
strategic objectives. It substantially strengthened the
Group’s capacity in retail property markets, particularly in
the consultancy, leasing and management of major shopping
centres, and it also cemented our position as one of the clear
top three commercial real estate advisers across Europe –
important in a consolidating market. In addition to Donaldsons,
the Group also made acquisitions in Canada, Sweden and
Australia. However, with the change in market conditions,
the Group concentrated on its existing business to prepare
the Company for continuing difﬁcult market conditions.
Results
Overall Group revenue increased to £446.3 million (2007:
£310.3 million), an increase of 44%. This increase can
be apportioned approximately 29% to the impact of our
corporate development activities and 15% to organic
growth. A signiﬁcant part of the organic growth is a result
of the investment made in additional people during previous
years who have started to contribute meaningful fee revenue
to the Group during the course of the ﬁnancial year, after the
normal period of limited contribution following recruitment.
Underlying proﬁt before tax and before exceptional items
for the Group was £20.6 million (2007: £38.0 million), a
decrease of 46%. Our proﬁtability was signiﬁcantly affected
by the collapse in the capital markets after summer 2007
and the movement of parts of our transactional activities
in this area from substantial proﬁt into loss.
Our proﬁt before tax was further affected by the impact
of a number of exceptional items totalling £15.1 million
which were one-off events during the course of this year.
These are described in more detail in the ﬁnancial review
on page 23. As a result, the Group’s proﬁt before tax fell
to £5.6 million for the year (2007: £41.8 million).
Mark Struckett, Group Chief Executive
“The commercial property
services market has been
rapidly consolidating, reﬂecting
the globalisation of our clients’
requirements. We ﬁrmly believe
this trend will continue and have
positioned the business as one
of the major operators in the
marketplace in both EMEA and
Asia Paciﬁc, and we will seek to
improve our market position
in North America.” CEO’s strategic review
The ﬁnancial review also provides details on EBITDA,
earnings per share, dividend and the balance sheet.
Strategy
The commercial property services market has been rapidly
consolidating, reﬂecting the globalisation of our clients’
requirements. We ﬁrmly believe this trend will continue and
have positioned the business as one of the major operators
in the market place in both EMEA and Asia Paciﬁc and will
focus on the integration and development of this leading
position. We will also seek to improve our market position
in North America through organic and other means but
without investing signiﬁcant equity in the short term until
market conditions strengthen.
The Group’s expanded operations in Continental Europe
and Asia Paciﬁc have mitigated the impact of the very
difﬁcult conditions in the UK and US capital markets. We
have continued to diversify our sources of income and both
the Donaldsons acquisition and organic growth assisted this
process last year. We intend to continue this policy, focused
in the short term on defensive income sources but with the
long term aim of a full spread of activities by geography,
skill and sector.
Property markets are cyclical and while the downturns can
be uncomfortable, we have historically gained market share
during such periods. We are also aware that the current fall
in capital values will in time recover and so we will use this
next period to position the business to beneﬁt from this
upturn when it arrives.
Corporate development
The major event of the year was our purchase of
Donaldsons in July 2007. This is believed to be the
largest ever merger amongst European property advisers.
Donaldsons brought around 900 people to the DTZ
business, primarily in the UK but with signiﬁcant operations
in Continental Europe. At the time of the merger, it was the
region’s leading adviser in the development consultancy,
leasing and management of shopping centres and ﬁtted
well with our operations. Our rationale was to increase
our expertise in the retail and public sectors, to exploit
synergies with our own leading position in UK retail
investment and to strengthen our operations in other
activities across Europe.
We are pleased with the merger process to date and
the physical integration has been largely completed.
Client reaction has been overwhelmingly positive, overall
staff turnover has been in line with our projections and while
the integration costs were slightly higher than budgeted, the
acquired business has performed in line with our expectations.
Our other acquisitions have also had a good start. In July,
we purchased a further 50% of our associate in Sweden,
taking us to 80%, and the business then acquired the
Stockholm leasing company of Fastighetsplanering AB.
At the same time, our Australian business acquired Harlow
Associates in Sydney, providing the Group with industrial
property expertise in that market.
Our strategy
Our primary focus in 2008/09
1.
• Strengthen our position in the EMEA and
Asia Paciﬁc markets
• Expand and diversify our market presence
in The Americas, in response to opportunities
while being sensitive to market conditions
• Redeploy and focus the business to perform
more effectively in the current climate and
gain market share
Our progress in 2007/08
• Entered the Canadian market via acquisition
of JJ Barnicke Ltd
• Grew our operations in Sweden and Australia
via acquisition
• Signiﬁcant organic growth in Asia Paciﬁc,
Central & Eastern Europe (‘CEE’) and Middle East
• Developed a leading European capability
in development consultancy and management
of shopping centres through the acquisition of
Donaldsons LLP
Our priorities for 2007/08
• Continue to grow our geographic presence
• Diversify our service offering to clients
DTZ Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 / 7 Our sectors
2.
Directors’ Report: Business Review
8 / www.dtz.com
In August, we acquired an option to purchase the leading
Boston ﬁrm, FHO Partners. This option was exercisable
at our year end, in April 2008. However, at that time we
considered market conditions had deteriorated so as
to make further capital investment in the United States
inappropriate for the time being. We therefore did not
exercise the option but instead have entered into a
licensing arrangement.
In November 2007, we acquired JJ Barnicke Ltd in Canada,
the country’s largest independent commercial property adviser
and third largest overall. In addition to giving us new coverage
in this resource rich country, it has given us better access to
the Canadian institutions who are active internationally.
Since the year end, The Staubach Company in the USA,
with whom the Group has had an alliance agreement to
service occupational clients, has announced that it is being
acquired by a competitor. We have therefore formally
terminated the alliance agreement. We had anticipated this
possibility which was part of the rationale for our separate
expansion in North America, and have also built up our own
staff numbers there to deal with our American based clients.
We therefore do not anticipate any impact on 2008/09
earnings. Looking forward, as market conditions allow,
we will continue our development in North America, where
directly and indirectly we now have around 600 staff.
Corporate and practice matters
Our organisational structure has focused on the further
development of our key business lines across geographies,
particularly in Asia Paciﬁc where we had obtained majority
control across all our operations during 2006/07. We are
pleased with progress, which positions us well for winning
additional business across the region as Asia continues its
rapid development.
This integration has been run in parallel to our rebranding
exercise where the substantial majority of our operations
have now rebranded as ‘DTZ’, losing many of the legacy
sufﬁxes. This change was ﬁnalised during the ﬁrst four
months of the ﬁnancial year and greatly assists the
integration referred to above.
The business has had substantial success in winning
various industry awards across the world, including
industry recognition as European Ofﬁce Agency Team
of the Year as well as a number of national awards.
As set out in more detail in the Corporate responsibility
report on page 30, there has also been a substantial focus
on improving our performance, both as a company and as
advisers in the area of sustainability and other aspects of
corporate responsibility. These efforts have brought a further
improvement but are part of an on-going programme.
Hospitality
Acting across EMEA, The Americas and Asia Paciﬁc,
the team has witnessed major growth during the year,
opening in Russia and Austria, and now delivers
advisory, transactional and valuation assignments in
locations from Montenegro to Costa Rica and Malaysia.
Source: DTZ Research
Residential
New homes consultancy and sales has been a
major feature of the residential business over the
last year, especially in London, China and South
East Asia, leading to some major new wins. The
other core disciplines of land advisory, valuation
and investment also continue to grow.
25.8%
35.5% 38.7%
Global property investment stock by sector
Ofﬁce
Our global teams specialise in the leasing and
acquisition of city centre ofﬁces, business parks
and mixed use developments in the major CBDs –
testament to our success was being named
‘European Ofﬁce Agency Team of the Year’.
Ofﬁce US$10.1 trillion
Retail US$7.5 trillion
Industrial US$11.3 trillion
Industrial & logistics
Our award winning teams deliver transactional
advice, underpinned by local insight on the changing
markets. Knowledge-sharing between regional
teams in EMEA and Asia Paciﬁc helps us deliver
truly joined up and informed global solutions.
Retail
DTZ has a leading European capability in
development consultancy and management of
shopping centres. We understand a shopping centre
is a business as well as a property asset and
provide the full range of retail services, delivering
to clients nationally and internationally. Our insight
3.
DTZ Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 / 9
CEO’s strategic review
People
Our business relies on attracting and retaining the best
people in our industry and this is inevitably a key focus each
year. This is especially the case during the major integration
process that follows the acquisitions we have undertaken
during 2007/08, particularly Donaldsons. This has seen a
period of planned reductions allied with a pause in general
recruitment reﬂecting market conditions. Overall staff
retention has been satisfactory while we continue to make
some key recruitments to meet speciﬁc needs.
A particular feature of the year has been increased mobility,
both geographically and by business line. Tougher market
conditions facilitate voluntary relocation and we have been able
to ﬁll posts internally more easily, aiding long term efﬁciency.
There have been some signiﬁcant senior management
changes during the course of the year. In addition to
welcoming Colin Child as Group Finance Director, we have
appointed new Managing Directors for the UK & Ireland,
Czech Republic, Spain, India and New Zealand and a new
Group Marketing & Communications Director. Our
practitioners have also been active winning individual
awards, including ﬁve nominations as top agents in the UK,
with John Forrester being named as the UK’s leading agent,
and similar wins as far apart as Stockholm and Sydney.
Market outlook
There is now no doubt that much of the world is
experiencing a substantial economic downturn, albeit the
extent of this varies widely by geography. While the initial
focus was on the ﬁnancial crisis, there is now more
evidence of general recessionary pressure across many
sectors. This inevitably has an impact on occupational
demand and we expect this to dampen rental growth
and performance around the world although some areas,
particularly in developing markets, continue to perform well.
Current availability ratios are generally low while new ofﬁce
development supply is more modest than in past cycles,
except in a few of the most challenged locations. New
construction is now being deferred in many parts of the
world and for most sectors of commercial property. This
lack of new supply should limit the length of the downturn
in the occupational cycle.
The major repricing that occurred on investment property in
the UK ﬁrst is generally spreading. In addition to reﬂecting
the prospective weakening in some occupational markets,
on which all investment value is ultimately based, the markets
will also take note of the recent rise in long-term rates driven
by fears of inﬂation. This, combined with absence of debt
availability, means that there could be further falls in capital
value before the signiﬁcant sources of equity that are
available are encouraged to recommence purchasing.
Our research
Prime ofﬁce yields (%)
Asia Paciﬁc Europe US
Paris CBD Warsaw Moscow London WE
Tokyo (5-ku) US CBD
Global investment transactions (US$ billion)
2004
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
2005 2006 YE2007 Q12008
Some recent examples of our global research:
www.dtz.com ﬁnd out more at:
0
50
100
150
200
0
3
6
9
12
15
Transactions peaked in 2007 at US$750 billion, but
have since fallen sharply and are likely to be down
substantially in 2008.
2006 2007 2008
Source: DTZ Research
Global yield compression may be unwinding, with the
UK leading the market correction.
Source: DTZ Research
