 22 Strategic Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Chief Executive's Review
We have momentum behind 
developing our business 
portfolio to enhance the 
quality of the business.
OVERVIEW
In the financial year 2014/15, DS Smith  
has again delivered strong underlying growth 
in volumes, margins, profits, returns and 
dividends, with all metrics well in line with  
our medium-term financial targets. At the 
same time as gaining market share through 
organic growth, we have delivered a series  
of acquisitions and disposals this year which 
help to focus the business on recycled 
packaging, and expand our geographic 
footprint and customer offering. We have 
also delivered against our non-financial  
key performance indicators, with further 
improvements in health and safety and  
in our environmental impact, reflecting  
our strategy of having a sustainable  
business model. 
Corrugated box volumes have increased  
by 3.1 per cent year-on-year, on a like-for-
like basis, with an acceleration in H2. All 
regions demonstrated positive progress, 
with particularly good growth in Central 
Europe and Italy. This is materially ahead  
of both our target of volume growth of  
GDP +1 per cent and the overall corrugated 
market in Europe, demonstrating how 
customers are continuing to move to  
DS Smith, reflecting our strength in 
innovation and design and the ability  
to deliver a pan-European solution for  
their packaging requirements. 
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive  Strategic Report 23
dssmith.com
In a market where the needs of consumers, 
retailers and our customers are constantly 
changing, we continue to focus on developing 
innovative solutions for our customers and  
the roll-out of our performance packaging 
programme. This utilises our unique proprietary 
technology , in order to provide high quality 
packaging for our customers on a consistent 
basis in the most cost -effective way.
For the full-year period, revenues increased 
by 1 per cent on a constant currency basis, 
despite a slight reduction from the net 
impact of acquisitions and disposals. 
Reported revenues reduced by 5 per cent 
due to foreign exchange (FX) translation  
of non-sterling revenues. Adjusted 
operating profit increased by 17 per cent  
on a constant currency basis to £335 million 
(9 per cent on a reported basis), driven by 
the contribution from the volume growth, 
our focus on higher value-added product 
and services to customers, together  
with the benefit of synergies from the  
SCA Packaging acquisition, where we  
have delivered the expected, final tranche 
of €40 million of synergies in the period. 
We have continued our strategy to  
licence certain of our technologies in a 
number of geographies worldwide. During 
the period, we entered into an agreement 
with Georgia-Pacific Corrugated LLC (GP), a 
major packaging company in North America, 
whereby GP licenses our technology for 
real-time monitoring and measurement of 
the quality and performance of packaging. 
We have an ongoing programme of opening 
our Impact and Packright design centres, 
where we bring together our innovation  
and design expertise to develop the best 
packaging solutions. The strength of our 
business model lies in our scale, as the 
design centres share expertise and a 
database of designs, which means 
customers receive the best solutions,  
while the cost of development is shared.  
To date we have rolled out 17 new or 
refurbished centres, which combined  
with existing design centres means  
we have 30 such centres across Europe.  
We expect to extend this to over 40 by  
the end of the 2015/16 financial year. 
Earnings per share increased by 24 per cent 
on a constant currency basis to 24.5 pence 
(14 per cent on a reported basis) (2013/14: 
21.4 pence). This result follows four prior 
years of consistent growth, with the 5-year 
compound annual growth rate for reported 
EPS being 34 per cent. 
The Board considers the dividend to be  
an important component of shareholder 
returns and, as such, has a policy to deliver  
a progressive dividend, where dividend 
cover is between 2.0 and 2.5 times, through 
the cycle. For the year 2014/15, the Board 
recommends a final dividend of 7 .7 pence, 
which together with the interim dividend of 
3.7 pence gives a total dividend for the year 
of 11.4 pence per share (2013/14: 10.0 pence 
per share). This represents an increase of  
14 per cent on the prior year and cover of  
2.1 times in relation to earnings per share 
(before amortisation and exceptional items). 
IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF THE 
BUSINESS BY INVESTMENT AND 
RESHAPING THE ASSET PORTFOLIO
DS Smith is ambitious to improve the quality 
and scale of our business. Scale is important 
as it allows us to invest in innovation and 
design, with the benefit shared throughout 
the business and across our customers.  
This results in a business that is able to  
lead the market in quality and innovation 
while remaining competitive on price and 
providing a full geographic reach, which 
together underpin our improvement in 
driving margins and returns. Allied to this  
is a focus on increasing the value-added 
products and services to our customers.
We have made significant further steps this 
year to expand our scale and improve the 
quality of the business through organic 
investment, acquisitions, and disposals. 
We increased our interest in Italmaceri,  
a recycling business in Italy, from 50 to  
100 per cent in July 2014, and bought a 
plastics manufacturing site in Croatia  
in September 2014. 
In November 2014 we acquired Andopack,  
a corrugated packaging business in  
Spain. We have been delighted with the  
customer reaction and the performance  
of the business, with volume growth 
significantly ahead of the Group average.
Since the year end we have completed  
our acquisition of Duropack, a corrugated 
packaging business with a market leading 
position in south eastern Europe. The 
reaction from customers and employees  
has been very positive and we look forward 
to integrating the business into the Group. 
  See p 19-21 for more information on our 
strategy and key performance indicators. 24 Strategic Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Chief Executive's Review continued
During the year we have also acquired a  
small packaging consultancy business, 
serving global customers with operations  
in Europe, US and Asia. This expands our 
global reach and increases our capabilities in 
the analysis of packaging and its interaction 
with supply chains. We are adding additional 
capability in the US to offer greater packaging 
design consultancy and procurement 
services, on the back of existing customer 
contracts and strong demand for our services 
beyond Europe. We are very pleased with the 
positive reaction from our global customers 
to this new initiative. 
We have made a number of disposals of 
businesses that were not core to the 
Group’s strategy, including a Foams business 
in Scandinavia, in September 2014, and 
StePac, a specialist modified atmosphere 
packaging business, in May 2015, after the 
year end. We have also disposed of a paper 
mill at Nantes, France, in line with our 
strategy to reduce non-integrated paper 
manufacturing. 
We have continued to invest in our assets 
ahead of depreciation, with net capex of 
£149 million (2013/14: £156 million). 
Approximately three quarters of this 
expenditure has been in the corrugated 
packaging business, with growth 
expenditure focused on the regions  
where there is the greatest opportunity.  
For example, in the year, approximately a 
third of the growth capex in the packaging 
business was spent in Central Europe, with 
investment in our sites in Poland, Hungary, 
Czech Republic and Romania. 
DELIVERING ON OUR MEDIUM-TERM 
TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS
We have made progress against our key 
performance indicators over the full-year 
with substantial improvement in our 
metrics. As set out above, corrugated box 
volumes grew by 3.1 per cent. This exceeded 
our target of GDP+1 per cent, with year-on-
year GDP growth, weighted by our sales in 
the markets in which we operate, estimated 
at 1.3 per cent (Source: Eurostat) resulting in 
a target of 2.3 per cent. We have delivered 
this growth across all our regions with a 
particularly strong contribution from Central 
Europe and Italy, which has benefited from 
our investment in the region as well as good 
growth in the markets. This performance 
reinforces our confidence in our investment 
in the Duropack business, which expands 
our geographic reach in the region, with the 
new business expected to increase our 
corrugated volumes in the region by circa 
one third. As a consequence of our strong 
volume growth, DS Smith has gained market 
share across Europe, where the overall 
corrugated packaging market has shown 
volume growth of 1.5 per cent (Source: 
FEFCO, May 2014 – April 2015).
Adjusted return on sales has increased by 
130 basis points on a constant currency 
basis to 8.8 per cent, at the upper end  
of our target range of 7 to 9 per cent, 
reflecting the improvement in profitability 
from our focus on higher value-added 
products and services, operational gearing 
and the final year of cost synergies from  
the acquisition of SCA Packaging, that have 
been achieved over the year as anticipated
Return on average capital employed has 
improved by 160 basis points to 14.6 per 
cent (2013/14: 13.0 per cent), toward the 
Average working capital 
to revenue 
2.7%
2013/14: 3.4%
Earnings per share
24.5p
2013/14: 21.4p  Strategic Report 25
dssmith.com
upper end of our medium-term target  
range of 12 to 15 per cent and significantly 
above our cost of capital. The improvement 
is driven by our improved profitability  
and our continual focus on tight capital 
allocation and management within the 
business, including working capital, which 
has shown further improvement this year. 
Return on average capital employed is our 
primary financial measure of success, and  
is measured and calculated on a monthly 
basis. All senior management have part  
of their remuneration package linked  
to this measure. 
Net debt has decreased to £651 million 
(2013/14: £827 million) while net debt/
EBITDA (calculated in accordance with  
our banking covenant requirements) was 
1.49 times (2013/14: 1.96 times), in line  
with our medium-term financial KPI of  
a ratio of 2.0 times or below and reflecting 
ongoing tight cash management and  
control throughout the business. 
During the year the Group generated free 
cash flow of £307 million (2013/14: £140 
million). Cash conversion was 127 per cent,  
in line with our target. 
DS Smith is committed to providing all 
employees with a safe and productive 
working environment. We are pleased to 
report a further substantial improvement  
in our safety record, with our accident 
frequency rate reduced a further 13 per cent 
from 4.79 to 4.16, reflecting our ongoing 
commitment to best practice in health  
and safety. Our target is for zero accidents, 
which we are pleased to report that 182 
sites achieved this year, up from 138 in 
2013/14. We continue to strive to achieve 
zero accidents for the Group as a whole.
The Group has a target for customer service 
of 97 per cent on-time, in-full deliveries.  
In the year we achieved 92 per cent, broadly 
similar to the level achieved in the prior year. 
Standards of service, quality and innovation 
are key to our differentiation in the market. 
We are investing significantly in these areas, 
from design centres throughout Europe, to 
the roll-out of our performance packaging 
methodology, in order to continue to lead 
the industry in this field. 
DS Smith is part of the sustainable economy, 
with our principal product of corrugated 
packaging fully recyclable, and substantially 
constructed from recycled material, as are 
many of our plastic packaging products. Our 
Recycling business works with customers 
across Europe to improve their recycling 
operations and overall environmental 
performance. We have invested in improved 
environmental tracking systems with far 
more detail now available, as set out in 
greater detail in our Sustainability Report 
2015. CO
2
 equivalent emissions, relative  
to production, have reduced by 2 per cent,  
and we are on target to achieve our 2010 
commitment to a 20 per cent reduction  
by 2020. 
UPDATED MEDIUM-TERM  
TARGETS AND FINANCIAL KEY 
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
We believe that scale brings benefits for 
customers and for our shareholders. Five 
years ago, for the year ended 30 April 2010, 
DS Smith reported a return on sales of  
4.5 per cent. In December 2010 the Board 
set a medium-term target of 6–8 per cent, 
and raised that to 7–9 per cent following the 
disposal of Spicers in 2011. Having achieved 
a full-year return on sales of 8.8 per cent 
this year, near the top of that range, the 
Board consider it appropriate to raise this 
sustainable medium-term target by an 
additional 100 basis points. 
In relation to cash conversion, the target 
level of 120 per cent was also set in 2010, 
when, inter alia, working capital was a 
substantially higher proportion of revenue 
than its current level of 2.7 per cent.  
The Board therefore believes that the 
appropriate cash conversion ratio for the 
business going forward, having achieved 
the target of 120 per cent or above for the 
prior five years, is 100 per cent or above. 
This reflects the structural working capital 
reductions achieved and the maturity of  
the current business. 
OUTLOOK
The current year has started well, with 
momentum in volumes continuing. We also 
have momentum behind developing our 
business portfolio to improve the quality of 
our business. We have been delighted with 
the positive customer reaction to our recent 
acquisitions. The progress we continue to 
make with global customers, together with 
the opportunities we see for growth as we 
expand our international reach and offering, 
gives us confidence to increase our medium-
term margin target by 100 basis points, and, 
notwithstanding the continued challenging 
market environment, we remain excited 
about the prospects for the business.
Miles Roberts 
Group Chief Executive
