 DTZ Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
4
Chairman’s Statement
While the economic and market 
environment of the past 12 months 
continued to pose challenges, the 
year for DTZ as a business has been 
a good one – a year of significant 
corporate progress and one which 
has seen us return to profitability 
on an operating level.
This time last year I spoke about the 
important steps management had begun, 
and would continue to take, to transform 
DTZ into a more competitive, responsive 
and ultimately profitable business. While we 
would not conclude this work is complete, 
that we have made major advancements 
in achieving these aims is indisputable.
Results
In light of the varying degrees of recovery 
we saw across our markets during the year 
it is encouraging to report that revenue 
for the year ended 30 April 2010 declined 
by only 2.2 per cent to £356.0 million 
(2009: £364.1 million).
The success of the Group’s restructuring 
programme can be seen in the significant 
improvement in our operating results, 
where the Group made a profit before 
tax and exceptional items of £3.6 million 
(2009: loss £35.1 million). 
After exceptional items the Group reported 
a loss before tax of £22.9 million (2009: loss 
£79.7 million). 
Further details of the results, exceptional 
charges and the Group’s cash position 
are given in the Financial Review.
The Board continues to believe it is in the 
best interests of the Group to continue to 
maintain the strength of its balance sheet, 
and therefore has decided not to declare 
a final dividend. The total dividend for 
the year is therefore nil (2009: nil).
Restructuring 
During the year we completed the Group’s 
far‑reaching restructuring programme and are 
pleased with the significant benefits in terms 
of cost savings and improved efficiencies 
which these actions have delivered. 
The Group now operates with increased 
proficiency, clear reporting lines and vastly 
improved information systems, ensuring 
management decisions are informed, 
timely and operationally enhancing. 
We will of course continue to review 
the business in line with our strategy 
and ensure it is appropriately matched 
to market conditions. 
Tim Melville‑Ross
Group Chairman
Our vision
To be the best firm in the real estate services industry, 
for our clients, our staff and our shareholders – where 
we choose to compete.
Our values
•  We put our clients’ interests first
•  We are one firm
•  We deliver exceptional service to our 
clients and to each other – always
•  We hire, develop and reward top performers 5 www.dtz.com     
Management
Last year when I reported the creation 
of the Group’s Executive Committee, 
which is responsible for the day to day 
running of the Company, I referred to 
one more appointment that remained to 
be filled. I am pleased to report that since 
the year end, Menno Maas has joined DTZ 
as our Chief Executive Officer for CEMEA 
and completes the membership of this 
committee. Menno has over 25 years’ 
real estate experience and was latterly 
CEO of ING Real Estate Development.
Board Changes
On behalf of the Board, I would like firstly 
to thank Peter Stone, who retired from the 
Group’s Board this year after nine years in 
his role as an Independent Non‑Executive 
Director. The Group has benefited greatly 
from the work, support and advice he 
provided over the years. 
Secondly, I would like to welcome 
Lorraine Baldry to the Board as an 
Independent Non‑Executive Director. 
Lorraine brings with her extensive knowledge 
and experience from across the real estate 
sector and is a current Board member 
of the Olympic Delivery Authority and 
Chairman of its Planning Committee.
Board Governance
The recent global economic crisis has 
highlighted more than ever the necessity 
of ensuring effective corporate governance 
within an organisation, and the Board of 
DTZ takes this very seriously. More detail 
is provided in the Corporate Governance 
report, but we have a well‑balanced 
Board including effective involvement from 
representatives of our majority shareholder 
who are well aware of their responsibilities 
to all shareholders, a committee structure 
which ensures the proper degree of attention 
to the key issues confronting the Group, 
and a thorough process of evaluation 
which assures us that the Board structure 
is working effectively and flexibly. 
Additionally, the Board has considered 
carefully the need to appoint a Senior 
Independent Director and concluded 
that Lorraine Baldry, who joined the Board 
on 1 April 2010, should be nominated as 
Senior Independent Director once she 
has had the opportunity to acquaint 
herself fully with the Company.
Employees
On behalf of the Board and senior 
management I would like to thank each 
and every person at DTZ for the important 
role they have played in getting the Company 
to where it is today – back on track and well 
positioned for the future. 
As well as continuing to deliver the 
exceptional client service for which we 
are renowned, our employees also helped 
us to reduce our cost base through their 
support of the temporary reduction to staff 
remuneration packages. Both of these 
factors contributed to our much improved 
results for this financial year. As originally 
planned, these temporary measures will 
expire this summer and I would like to 
put on record our gratitude and thank 
our employees for their participation.
Looking forward, we recognise that the 
ongoing success of the business relies 
on retaining our top talent, and we are 
therefore committed to rewarding our 
employees around the world for their 
contributions with a clear emphasis on 
recognising outperformance. Further, we 
will continue the work we have begun over 
the last 12 months to introduce and refine 
performance aligned reward programmes 
and selectively invest in the way we 
manage and grow our teams. 
Outlook
The last financial year has undoubtedly 
been a year in which DTZ has made 
much progress.
We ended the year with a stronger balance 
sheet, an enviable brand, exceptional 
client relationships, and a talented 
and committed workforce.
From this strong position we must now 
look to the future, turning our attention 
to the profitable growth of the business. 
Despite the considerable economic 
uncertainty which remains around the 
globe, and the varying degrees of recovery 
across the markets in which we operate, 
we feel that, whilst remaining cautious, 
the progress that we have made over the 
past year leaves us well placed to meet 
the challenges, and take advantage of 
the opportunities, that we expect to face 
in the current financial year and beyond.
Tim Melville‑Ross
Group Chairman
13 July 2010
