 4 Strategic Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Chief Executive's Q&A
We are leading change  
by providing innovative 
packaging solutions.
You joined DS Smith as CEO in May 
2010 — over five years ago. What 
has been achieved in that time?
The business has changed a great deal  
over the last five years, but there remains 
plenty of opportunities and a lot more to do. 
At the time I joined, DS Smith was principally 
an Anglo-French business, with substantial 
paper mills, a large business in office  
products supply and margins of 4.5 per cent.  
I set out a simple strategy, focused on our 
customers, to design and manufacture 
recycled packaging with the high quality, 
service and innovation that customers  
want. The goal of that strategy was to 
improve our financial performance and  
the consistency of our returns. 
This idea was summed up in the key pillars 
of our strategy — to delight our customers, 
to realise the potential of our people, to 
double the size and profitability of the 
business, and to lead the way in recycling. 
Five years on, we have done a huge amount. 
We have made a number of acquisitions,  
so that the corrugated business is now 
genuinely pan-European, in 27 countries. 
We have also disposed of parts of the 
business that did not fit. In financial terms, 
since 2009/10 we have doubled revenues,  
close to doubled our 2010 margins and 
nearly tripled our earnings per share.
We have achieved this by winning market 
share, which is the most significant test of 
whether you offer an attractive proposition 
Miles Roberts
Group Chief Executive  Strategic Report 5
dssmith.com
to customers. We have invested in employee 
programmes to engage everyone in the 
organisation. We have also invested in  
our recycling business as well as our own 
corporate sustainability. 
  See p 20 for more about our key 
performance indicators
Does that mean that everything  
is done?
DS Smith is leading change in the industry, 
not just within our own organisation. The 
changes are driven by our customers and 
their customers’ changing needs, which  
we see as continuing to evolve, so I believe 
there is a great deal further forward for  
DS Smith to travel, as we continue to invest 
in our business. 
The business is cash generative, which 
means that we have choices on how to  
invest for further growth. We are investing 
significantly in our plants and adding  
new technology to produce high quality 
packaging, for example display units. We  
are investing in rolling out design centres 
across Europe so that all our customers  
have a centre within easy reach where we 
can develop innovative solutions for them. 
In Europe, while we have a network of 
plants that broadly cover the full region, 
there are areas where we would like a 
greater presence. 
There is also the challenge of integrating 
the businesses we have acquired recently 
— Andopack in Spain, for example, and the 
Duropack businesses in south eastern 
Europe. Making the acquisition is just the 
start — we then bring in our ways of working, 
our innovation, links to our design centres 
— in order to make the acquired businesses 
as successful as possible.
Is bigger always better in  
the corrugated industry?
The scale of DS Smith gives us some  
clear advantages versus our competitors. 
First, we are able to offer solutions to  
large customers across Europe. That is 
something that can only be achieved with  
a pan-European manufacturing network  
like ours. Large pan-European customers 
are realising that it is more efficient for  
them to have only a small number of 
corrugated suppliers rather than many, 
because we can offer consistency and 
quality that is otherwise difficult to achieve. 
Second, we have the size to be able to  
invest in innovation and research, with  
the benefit shared across the business.  
For example, we have invested substantially 
in the quality of the paper we manufacture,  
to allow us to build the best possible 
corrugated boxes. I believe that, in the  
case of DS Smith, scale and quality of 
business therefore go hand-in-hand.
When you talk about “leading 
change” in the industry, what  
does that mean? 
We put our customers at the heart of our 
operation and focus on what is important  
to them and delivers value for them. 
Corrugated boxes fulfil a role far wider than 
just transit. Packaging touches many points 
in the supply chain — so it is important how 
easily it works on our customers’ packaging 
lines, how it can be used to maximise the 
transit logistics, and then, at the end, how 
the packaging helps our customers sell more 
too, by presenting the product in a way that 
attracts the attention of the consumer and 
is easy to shop. Good retail-ready packaging 
(packaging that is used in a store) can save 
the retailers money too — by reducing 
shelf-stacking time. 
At DS Smith we think that this whole  
supply cycle is important, and that to  
make packaging that fulfils the needs  
of our customer , you need the skills to  
address all these areas, in innovation,  
design and manufacturing. This is a big 
change for the industry and we are proud  
to lead this change in becoming more 
customer focused.
  See p 18 for more about how we  
analyse the supply cycle
OUR VALUES  
Be caring
We take pride in what we do and  
care about our customers, our  
people and the world around us.
Be challenging
We are not afraid to challenge each 
other and ourselves constructively  
to find a better way forward.
Be trusted
We can always be trusted  
to deliver on our promises.
Be responsive
We seek new ideas and  
understanding and are quick  
to react to opportunities. 
Be tenacious 
We get things done. 6 Strategic Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Chief Executive's Q&A continued
Why are you changing your return 
on sales target in your financial  
key performance indicators (KPIs)? 
This year we have delivered a return on 
sales margin of 8.8 per cent, near the top  
of our range of 7 to 9 per cent. The Board 
now believes we can achieve an additional 
100 basis points, in the medium-term.  
This increase reflects two changes to our 
business. First is the quality of our whole 
offering, from innovation, design and 
manufacture, adding more value across  
the whole supply chain for our customers. 
Second is the scale of our business, which 
means, among other things, that the costs 
and benefits of innovation, research and 
design are shared. 
  See p 20 for more about our KPIs 
Consumer behaviour has changed 
significantly over the last few 
years, with more products bought 
on-line for example. Is this an 
opportunity or a threat to DS Smith?
We see the changing consumer and retail 
trends as an opportunity. More and more  
is expected of the humble corrugated box 
and packaging now needs to be adaptable  
to different retail environments from 
supermarkets, a convenience store, a 
discounter, to an on-line distributor. Each  
has slightly different requirements, which 
means complexity. We provide solutions  
for these challenges. We have teams  
who work on smart designs for each  
format, and these solutions are shared 
throughout the organisation. That gives  
us a commercial advantage.
  See p 11 for more about packaging  
for different retail channels 
The returns for shareholders have 
been excellent over the last five 
years – how has the business’s 
success benefited employees?
Employees are our key asset. We have  
made health and safety a top priority and 
have seen a 46 per cent drop in our lost-time 
accident rate over the last five years. We 
have a programme called OWN IT! that aims 
to help our employees understand how  
their own targets and actions contribute  
to the performance of the business as a 
whole. At the same time we encourage 
share ownership among our employees,  
and in 2014 launched an award-winning  
SAYE scheme across 23 countries. 
I am also proud of the work that DS Smith  
is undertaking, through our Charitable 
Foundation, to reach out to both new 
employees and potential employees. In  
the last 12 months we have entered into  
a partnership with Nestlé in its Alliance 4 
YOUth programme — to give opportunities  
to young people across Europe to get that 
all-important first job or work experience. 
We are now also entering our third year of 
sponsoring 17 and 18-year-olds interested  
in engineering, through the Arkwright 
Scholarship programme. 
What does the circular  
economy mean to DS Smith?
We are proud to be the largest recycler of 
paper and corrugated board in the UK, and 
with a substantial position in that market  
in Europe. Not only is it a good business,  
but it provides an essential service to the 
economy, as there are not enough trees  
for paper only to be made from new fibre.  
As well as providing an essential, reliable 
collection service for our customers, we  
will work with them to make sure that they 
are recovering all their used paper and 
corrugated board, rather than sending it to 
landfill. That makes sense for them, for us, 
and is a benefit to the whole environment.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Looking at the past year,  
what are you most proud of?
I am proud of how the business balance  
has delivered another good set of financial 
results, despite difficult economic conditions. 
That has come from excellent work by  
our commercial teams throughout the 
organisation, working to design and 
manufacture the best packaging possible. 
We have further developed the shape  
of the business with both acquisitions and 
disposals, and invested in our own assets 
and network at the same time. This has all 
been delivered thanks to our employees 
each one of whom takes responsibility for 
delivering their part of our plan each year  
— I am grateful to them all.
View our ‘Supply Cycle Thinking’  
at www.dssmith.com/company/
who-we-are/supply-cycle-strategists
