  Strategic Report 1
dssmith.com
Chairman's Statement
PERFORMANCE
I am delighted to report another year of 
excellent performance by DS Smith. We 
have delivered strong growth in volumes, 
profits, margins and returns, in a market 
that is still tough. 
I am particularly pleased with the way that 
the business has continued to re-shape. 
Since the acquisition of SCA Packaging in 
July 2012, which transformed the business 
into a genuinely pan-European business, the 
principal focus has been on integration and 
the delivery of substantial synergies. With 
that programme complete, over the last 12 
months DS Smith has acquired businesses in 
Italy, Spain, and in the high growth region of 
south eastern Europe. These businesses are 
focused on our core enterprise of recycled 
packaging. We have also been investing in 
new sites, such as those for the plastics 
business in both the US and Europe. At the 
same time, some non-core businesses have 
been disposed of, releasing capital that can 
be deployed elsewhere.
While we have done this, we have continued 
to deliver on our key performance indicators, 
with our margin now at the top end of our 
target range. I am delighted to confirm that 
this medium-term target is now being raised 
by 100 basis points, reflecting both the 
performance of the business and also  
our aspiration for the future. 
DIVIDEND
The Board considers the dividend to be  
an important component of shareholder 
returns and, as such, has a policy to deliver  
a progressive dividend, where dividend 
cover is between 2.0 and 2.5 times, through 
the cycle. For the year 2014/15, the Board 
recommends a final dividend of 7 .7 pence, 
which together with the interim dividend  
of 3.7 pence gives a total dividend for  
the year of 11.4 pence per share (2013/14: 
10.0 pence per share). This represents an 
increase of 14 per cent on the prior year and 
cover of 2.1 times in relation to earnings per 
share (before amortisation and exceptional 
items) (adjusted EPS), in line with our policy. 
Looking back over the past five years I am 
particularly proud of the consistent growth 
and returns to shareholders. Adjusted  
EPS has grown at an average rate of 34  
per cent each year, with the dividend per 
share growing similarly at 29 per cent.  
T otal shareholder return, which is a measure 
combining growth in the share price with the 
benefit of dividends, has grown 343 per cent, 
considerably out-stripping the FTSE 250 at 
93 per cent over the same five year period. 
OUTLOOK
As usual, on behalf of the Board, I would  
like to thank all my colleagues throughout  
DS Smith for their dedication and hard work 
over the past year. That commitment has 
resulted in the great results for the year, 
and the growth in market share that we are 
seeing across our business. We see significant 
opportunities for the business in the coming 
year and are confident of future success. 
Gareth Davis
Chairman
  See p 44 for more information  
on Governance
Total shareholder return
DS Smith FTSE 250 Index
+343%
+93%
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
100
200
300
400
500
" I am delighted to report another year 
of excellent performance by DS Smith. 
We have delivered strong growth in 
volumes, profits, margins and returns, 
in a market that is still tough."
