 DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10
The Group started the 2010/11 
financial year with a commitment to 
continue to build on the significant 
corporate progress it had achieved 
in the prior year. Having already 
completed a far-reaching strategic 
review and restructuring programme 
to shape the business for growth, 
the past 12 months were about 
identifying and selectively investing 
in the best opportunities to realise 
this growth for the Group.
Our main focus in this area has been on 
the development of the Group’s client 
services through initiatives such as 
targeted organic expansion into those 
areas where our clients want us to be, 
selective recruitment of high profile real 
estate professionals, and improving our 
sales and client support resources. 
Much progress can be demonstrated. 
At Group level we saw revenue decline 
by 4.1 per cent, mainly as a result of the 
overall slower recovery in the markets 
where the largest share of the Group’s 
operations are situated – namely the UK 
and Continental Europe. However in the 
Group’s second largest market – Asia 
Pacific, the story continues to be one  
of growth. At a Group level, as a result  
of a selective reduction in capacity and 
investment in talent, we have seen 
revenue per Director rise 13.5 per cent. 
Furthermore, in those markets where  
we have not witnessed growth, we are 
confident that our businesses have  
been operationally strengthened during 
the year and will now begin to benefit 
from market recovery over the next  
12 months and beyond. 
Chairman’s 
Statement
“We believe  
our businesses  
which were most 
affected during the 
downturn have been 
strengthened and will 
now begin to benefit 
from a continued 
market recovery.”
Tim Melville-Ross
Group Chairman
Statement Highlights 
 The past 12 months were about  >
identifying and selectively 
investing in the best opportunities 
to realise growth for the Group 
 We have developed the Group’s  >
client services through targeted 
organic expansion, selective 
recruitment of high profile 
real estate professionals and 
improved sales and client 
support resources
 We have exceptional client  >
relationships and well respected 
and accomplished professionals, 
whose dedication will continue 
to serve our clients and 
shareholders well   DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011    11
Business Review
Results
As mentioned above, during the course  
of the year the Group experienced varying 
trading conditions across its operations 
resulting in an overall decline in revenues 
for the year ended 30 April 201 1 to  
£341.3 million (2010: £356.0 million).
This reduction in revenues at a Group 
level taken together with our decision  
to maintain investment in the business 
led to a loss before tax and exceptional 
items of £0.6 million (2010: profit  
£3.0 million).
After exceptional items the Group 
reported a loss before tax of £3.4 million 
(2010: loss £23.5 million). 
At EBITDA level the Group was profitable 
at £8.5 million (2010: loss £3.4 million). 
Further details of the results, exceptional 
charges, and the Group’s cash position 
are given in the Financial Review.
In light of the Group’s overall performance 
and the Board’s continued belief that  
it is in the best interests of the Group to 
continue to preserve cash, the Board has 
decided not to declare a final dividend. 
The total dividend for the year is therefore 
nil (2010: nil).
Corporate Development
On 11 May 2011, DTZ confirmed that it 
had received a number of approaches for 
investment in the Company’s shares. On 
20 June 2011 it provided an update to the 
market stating that the Board continues 
to review approaches of interest in the 
Company’s shares, including one from 
Saint George Participations SAS, the 
majority shareholder of DTZ, supported 
by BNP Paribas, and is providing 
information to parties to facilitate their 
investment evaluation processes. 
These discussions remain at an early 
stage and there can be no certainty  
that any proposals will be progressed  
or that any offer will be ultimately made. 
Board Governance
The effectiveness of organisations’ 
corporate governance and risk 
management continues to remain  
under scrutiny in the wake of the  
recent global economic crisis and  
the ongoing exceptional political, 
economic and environmental events  
of the past 12 months. 
While more detail can be found in the 
Statement of Corporate Governance, 
the Board of DTZ, through its balanced 
and representative composition, is  
well placed to ensure that the right 
structures, controls and processes  
are in place to enable it to obtain the 
information it needs to manage the risks 
the Group faces, to monitor progress  
of the Group’s strategy and to be able  
to evaluate its own performance. 
Additionally, following Lorraine Baldry’s 
appointment to the Board last April as 
Non-Executive Director, and as signalled 
this time last year, Lorraine was made 
the Board’s Senior Independent Director 
in August 2010. 
Employees
On behalf of the Board and senior 
management I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank our staff worldwide 
for their continued hard work during the 
course of the year. I am confident that 
their professionalism and dedication  
will continue to serve our clients and 
shareholders well in the year ahead. 
We recognise that the ongoing success 
of the business relies on both retaining 
our top talent, and investing in new 
talent. To this effect over the past  
12 months we have welcomed several 
new senior members to our global client 
facing teams, each of whom brings with 
them a wealth of experience, know-how 
and drive. 
Outlook
At the end of my statement last year  
I spoke about the challenges and 
opportunities we would undoubtedly 
encounter in the coming year.
Whilst progress has been slower than 
we would have wished in addressing 
these, operationally much has been 
achieved and in many of our markets  
we continue to maintain our leading 
market positions. Across all our 
businesses we have exceptional client 
relationships and well respected and 
accomplished professionals.
While there is more work to be done  
at DTZ over the next 12 months and 
beyond, we believe those of our 
businesses which were most affected 
during the downturn, namely the UK  
and CEMEA, have been strengthened 
and will now begin to benefit from a 
continued market recovery. We also 
believe our Asia Pacific and Investment 
& Asset Management businesses will 
continue to deliver solid growth for  
the Group.
 
Overall our outlook does remain 
cautious, particularly given the 
continuing global economic and political 
uncertainty. However, in striving to 
become the best firm in the real estate 
services industry, for our clients, our staff 
and our shareholders, where we choose 
to compete, the Board is committed to 
delivering long term success for all the 
Group’s stakeholders.
Tim Melville-Ross
Group Chairman
7 July 2011
