 2
Earthport plc 
Annual Report and Accounts Fiscal Year 2015
Strategic Report
I am very proud to be Chairman of Earthport and to be 
reporting another year of significant revenue growth and 
further enhancing our unique position in the international 
payments arena. In the year to June 2015, our gross revenue 
increased by 78% to £19.27 million and continues to improve 
our standing in the global payments landscape. In addition, 
the strength of our balance sheet, with cash reserves of 
over £30 million, gives us a platform on which to capitalise 
on the opportunities in our market.
It was appropriate to deliver our last Annual Report with the 
theme ‘Transformational Year’ as we continued to position  
the Company for the future. This year we have focused on 
‘Earthport Ahead’ to describe how we have built on our  
core business to create real competitive advantage which 
Hank Uberoi, will detail more expansively in his CEO Letter.
Looking back, we are all well aware that the financial  
crisis in 2008 changed the whole face of banking, with 
increased financial pressures on the world’s largest  
financial institutions, and with increased scrutiny through 
the establishment of new regulators and their increased 
powers. That, coupled with the fierce financial penalties  
that have been levied recently against a number of top-tier 
banks, has continued this period of retrenchment. Not 
unnaturally, these banks have re-evaluated their risk 
profiles and the resultant lack of risk appetite has been 
keenly felt in the world of cross-border payments. The 
impact has been a significant reduction in the already 
reducing number of global correspondents.
During the last financial year, our brand recognition  
has risen appreciably. This visibility led to numerous 
invitations to deliver presentations at international forums 
and conferences, sharing the platform with international 
leaders and regulators who view Earthport as an important 
participant in the future of the payments ecosystem. 
The relationships with our Tier 1 Banking partners are 
crucially important to us, not only for the direct value we  
can secure from their own payments businesses, but also to 
enable us to increase Earthport’s profile. In order to maintain 
these partners, we have to demonstrate the ‘best of breed’ 
compliance and governance that we have developed over 
the recent years. These relationships have taken a significant 
time to come to fruition as, rightfully, these banks have  
had to ensure the complete integrity of our practices  
and processes.
Progressing 
Ahead
Chairman’s Statement
Philip Hickman
As we move forward from our transformational 
period and look to the future, I am enthusiastic 
about the potential developments for Earthport 
that lie ahead. 3
Earthport plc 
Annual Report and Accounts Fiscal Year 2015
55.3%
$20tn 39 60+ 1 31 22 $20tn 39 60+ 1 31 22 $20tn 39 60+ 1 31 22
$20tn 39 60+ 1 31 22 $20tn 39 60+ 1 31 22 $20tn 39 60+ 1 31 22
Market Capability Growth
Size of the annualised  
global trade market  
by dollar value
Countries  
available on  
Earthport Network
Number of new  
clients signed by  
Earthport in 2015
Average number  
of correspondent  
banks maintained  
by FIs for payment
Number of connections  
needed by Earthport  
clients to access 
Number of new  
clients implemented  
by Earthport in 2015
FY 2014 FY 2015
Earthport is increasingly recognised as a positive disruptive 
force in the market. The result has been to open the doors  
to other industry sectors who rely on international payments 
but find the traditional settlement methods expensive, 
cumbersome and inflexible. The payments landscape  
is changing with e-wallets, mobile apps, blockchain 
technologies and virtual currencies demanding a re-think  
in how payment providers interact. Earthport is rapidly 
becoming a ‘trusted third party’, which makes our business 
model attractive to cross-border trade.
As we move forward, the opportunities from the new  
wave companies and non-traditional payment providers  
are increasing, in response we are increasing our investment 
to ensure that we broaden our geographical presence and 
strengthen our relationships with our network partners.
Our belief is that we should structure our company for the 
long-term and ensure the resilience of our infrastructure, 
networks and products continue to give us the competitive 
advantage in a world that is rapidly evolving. We believe the 
size of our addressable market is growing and will continue  
to grow over the foreseeable future.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to Hank Uberoi, his executive 
team and the entire Earthport staff for another year of total 
commitment and success. The Board and I look forward to 
working with them in the coming years ahead.
Philip Hickman 
Chairman 
Transactional Growth
 “ The world of payments in 2020  
will look very unlike it does today,  
and market transformation has  
already begun” 
Dominic Broom, 
Managing Director, BNY Mellon
