 8
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
We have continued to make steady 
progress with our OneDX programme 
over the year.
This substantial and ongoing investment 
across the business supports our aim of 
providing enhanced delivery solutions to 
our customers. It is also creating a more 
efficient operating structure to underpin 
our offering, based on a market-leading 
range of services, value and high 
customer service levels. 
The major proportion of our £9.9 million 
of capital investment in the business over 
the year was in technology. It included 
the first phase of the roll-out of a new 
routing and scheduling system. 
Two of DX’s three operating networks  
now use a common software platform  
as well as uniform handheld scanners.  
This will enable an enhanced service to 
our customers and significant efficiencies 
as it facilitates the switching of shipments 
between networks. Property is another 
key area of investment and part of the 
ongoing optimisation of our site network. 
Over the year we have continued with our 
co-location plans, consolidating sites onto 
better and larger units. The proposed 
development of a 44-acre site announced 
in May will significantly accelerate our 
network development plans.
Our new investment in Gnewt Cargo 
Limited (‘Gnewt’), the emission-free 
delivery services provider, is progressing 
well. We are now assisting in the 
business’s expansion outside its existing 
London base into a second city location, 
with plans in place for further steady 
geographic expansion.
Trading conditions in the second half 
remained challenging and given these 
tough conditions the performance of the 
business for the year has been satisfactory. 
While we added approximately £20 million 
of new business (on an annualised basis), 
focusing on customers who value high 
levels of service, there was a 2.2% 
reduction in revenues from ongoing 
activities. This reduction reflected our 
contract review programme, set in place 
to ensure that all contracts deliver an 
acceptable return. We continue to 
focus on margin enhancement which 
should come through as we progress 
our OneDX programme.
PETAR CVETKOVIC | CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
MARKET SECTOR | RETAIL AND E-TAIL
DELIVERING ALL 
SHAPES AND SIZES 
FOR WIGGLE
Wiggle is a pioneer in the online sports retail 
environment and one of the UK’s leading 
providers of bikes, parts and sports equipment 
across specialities including running, swimming 
and triathlon. 
We are building  
solid foundations for 
future growth. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9
PARCELS AND FREIGHT
Our activities within the parcels and 
freight segment comprise three core 
services, DX 1-Man, DX Courier and 
DX 2-Man. 
DX 1-Man specialises in the delivery 
of irregular dimension and weight 
(‘IDW’) items (i.e. those items which 
are unsuitable for parcel conveyors and 
instead require mechanical lifting and/or 
manual handling). In addition, DX 1-Man 
delivers pouches, parcels and pallets 
for next day arrival and offers an 
international network option. Over 63% 
of deliveries are B2B although the IDW 
market in B2C is growing significantly, 
reflecting trends in online shopping.
DX Courier provides next day  
parcel services and is a B2B service. 
Focused on smaller packets and 
parcels requiring a single driver,  
it provides a highly reliable delivery 
service for branch networks,  
high street shops and government 
premises. It has developed a strong 
presence in several market sectors 
including pharmaceuticals, optical, 
retail and gambling.
DX 2-Man offers a B2C home 
delivery solution for heavier and 
bulkier items, such as furniture.  
Its services also include furniture 
assembly, the installation of white 
goods and ‘white glove’ delivery  
to a room of the customer’s choice. 
£154.1m
REVENUE
52%
£116.4m
REVENUE
39%
£27.0m
REVENUE
9%
PARCELS AND FREIGHT MAIL AND PACKETS LOGISTICS
NICHOLAS PINK
Operations & Programme Director at Wiggle
“I would absolutely recommend DX to other retailers who 
require something more than a bargain basement parcel 
delivery operation; the service has been thorough, well 
communicated and dependable.”
DX was selected as Wiggle’s primary delivery provider for oversize 
parcels and high value items requiring a secure network within the 
UK. Wiggle promises its customers next day delivery on products of 
all shapes, sizes and values and it is vital that this commitment is met 
consistently. DX stood out from other logistics providers because 
of its approach to the customer relationship. From the outset, DX 
has sought to create a strong partnership with Wiggle’s teams  
and to establish strong lines of communications between the two 
companies at both operational and management level. Thanks to 
this joined-up approach, the relationship is effective and DX can  
play its part in helping to ensure that Wiggle has happy customers.
