 DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review
“DTZ has been 
restructured and 
refocused. Our goal 
is now to reverse the 
trend of revenue decline 
and achieve profitable 
organic growth.”
Paul T. Idzik 
Group Chief Executive
Last year I acknowledged that, in 
spite of returning to profitability at 
a pre-exceptional operating level, 
this was just the beginning of a long 
journey for DTZ. The opportunities 
and challenges we have encountered 
over the past year have confirmed this 
as the correct outlook. The prevailing 
mood must remain one of caution, 
with transaction lead times remaining 
protracted. This factor, in particular, 
has directly impacted our business 
and the Group reports a 4.1 per cent 
decline in revenue for the year ended 
30 April 2011. However, as a result  
of a focused reduction in headcount, 
revenue per Director has risen  
13.5 per cent across the Group, with 
a smaller but still improved level of 
productivity recorded across all staff.
We have continued to make tangible 
progress in terms of the restructuring  
of the business, while retaining top  
talent and improving financial flexibility. 
Nonetheless, because of the Group’s 
net debt position, constraints remain.  
To some extent this has hampered our 
ability to invest as aggressively as we 
would have liked in order to fully 
participate in the market upturn. Taken 
as a whole, the Group was undeniably  
in a weaker position than its competitors 
when the downturn began to affect the 
industry. I believe that this was a result, 
chiefly, of a previous lack of organic 
investment by DTZ in its people, 
infrastructure, and geographies.
Review Highlights 
 While there was a small decline  >
in revenues, Group-wide 
revenue per Director increased 
13.5 per cent, reflecting further 
improvements to our cost 
structure and investment in talent
 Strengthened client relationships  >
and the provision of a more 
seamless service will not only 
drive revenues, but also make 
them sustainable over the cycle
 There is positive momentum  >
in many of our key business 
areas and where further work 
is required we are taking the 
necessary actions Revenue (£m)
2011                                         341.3
2010                                           356.0
2009                                            364.1
2008                                                        446.3
2007                                    310.3
Profit/(loss) before tax and 
exceptional items (£m)
2011                  (0.6)                    
2010                              3.0 
2009   (35.1)
2008                                                  20.6
2007                                                        38.0 
EBITDA (£m)
2011                               8.5   
2010                 (3.4) 
2009  (66.4)
2008                                   15.2
2007                                               45.6
 DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011    13
Business Review
The economic recovery is unfolding at 
two speeds, with Asia to the fore and 
the UK and Europe trailing. A similarly 
mixed picture is emerging in property 
markets, both within regions and at 
country level. In Continental Europe, 
Germany, the Nordics and CEE (Central 
and Eastern Europe) are delivering 
strong economic growth, and their 
property markets reflect this. In the  
UK, prime central London property 
continues to attract investors, but the 
regions remain less attractive in a relative 
sense as rental growth is forecast at  
a lower level.
Performance
Group
Reflecting our varied regional 
performances and the continuing 
challenges already mentioned, the 
Group’s revenue for the financial year 
ended 30 April 2011 declined to  
£341.3 million (2010: £356.0 million).
Lower revenues at Group level and our 
commitment to continue to invest in the 
business contributed to an overall loss 
before tax and exceptional items of  
£0.6 million (2010: profit £3.0 million). 
After exceptional items the Group 
reported a much improved position 
recording a loss before tax of  
£3.4 million (2010: loss £23.5 million). 
Asia Pacific
Asia Pacific remained our strongest 
performing market, growing revenues 
to £106.3 million (2010: £98.4 million) 
– led by our best-in-class business in 
China, which is market-leading in terms 
of size and reach. The moves by the 
authorities in mainland China to dampen 
speculation and moderate inflation, as 
well as various measures aimed directly 
at cooling the residential property 
sector have, as we signalled earlier in 
the year, contributed to lower second 
half growth than anticipated at the start 
of the financial year, particularly within 
investment agency. Similar measures 
to cool the residential markets have 
also been employed in Hong Kong 
and Singapore and interest rates are 
already being raised in Australia, India, 
Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand,  
and Vietnam. 
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
remained broadly flat at £8.8 million 
(2010: £8.7 million), reflecting the 
slowdown during the second half of 
the last financial year, as well as our 
investment in organic growth in the 
region including opening new offices  
in China and India.
Economic growth in the region remains 
robust and DTZ’s unrivalled presence 
means it is uniquely positioned to 
participate in – and take advantage 
of – China’s role as a global economic 
powerhouse. Asia Pacific now provides 
over 31.0 per cent of Group revenue, 
and alongside China, our South East 
Asia and India businesses continue to 
deliver strong growth in the region.
UK & Ireland
In the UK & Ireland, the Group has 
one of the broadest regional footprints 
in the industry. While in the long term 
we believe this to be a competitive 
advantage, as it has been in the past,  
in the near term, as a result of the  
slower regional economic recovery  
this has impacted our UK performance. 
Likewise, the performance of our 
property management business, as 
well as our large exposure to the public 
sector has further impacted our results. 
While these factors led to a decline  
in revenue in the UK & Ireland to  
£128.3 million (2010: £145.7 million)  
it is encouraging to report that the  
UK business has maintained its top  
five market position during the year, and 
that productivity per Director has risen 
6.3 per cent. Additionally, in Central 
London, which remains one of the 
largest real estate markets in the world, 
DTZ has a top-tier business and was 
involved in many high profile investment 
transactions in the City and West End. 
Reflecting our decision to invest further 
in the business during the year, in 
both senior fee earning talent and in 
improving our sales and client support 
resources, the business reported 
a reduced profit before tax and 
exceptional items of £3.1 million  
(2010: £8.7 million). 
 
Continental Europe, the Middle East 
& Africa (CEMEA)
In CEMEA we have made some good 
progress, and while revenues during  
the year declined to £87 .3 million  
(2010: £91.5 million), we continue to 
improve the profitability of the business. 
We are selectively adding capacity and 
rebuilding teams; but recruiting the best 
talent takes time. It is heartening that in 
those markets where we are dedicating 
resources, and where we have 
strengthened management teams – 
primarily France, Germany, Sweden, 
Poland, and Belgium – there are now 
clear signs that DTZ is gaining traction. 
The proof of this is in the growth of our 
investment agency business and the 
solid performance of the valuation team, 
which was instructed on landmark 
engagements in Germany during the 
year. The Group has also doubled its 
property management portfolio in 
Poland during the period. In addition,  
the contribution from our affiliate in  
The Netherlands was significant.
I am particularly pleased to report that 
for the second year running the CEMEA 
business has reported an improvement 
in profit before tax and exceptional 
items, turning profitable for the year 
ended 30 April 2011 recording a profit  
of £2.4 million compared to a loss of 
£3.3 million in the prior year and a loss  
of £18.6 million in 2008/09. Additionally 
revenue per Director in the CEMEA 
business also increased during the  
year by 14 per cent.
The Americas
In the Americas, which is largely 
comprised of our Canadian business, 
while we completed some significant 
transactions during the year, overall 
revenues declined to £19.4 million  
(2010: £20.4 million) and we reported  
a loss before tax and exceptional items 
for the region of £1.7 million (2010: profit 
£0.5 million). 
Financial Results Global Investment Transaction 
Volumes (US$bn)
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
Key
 Asia Pacific          Europe          US
Source: DTZ Research, Reis Services LLC, Property Data
DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14
The Markets and DTZ 
As I mentioned earlier, there are two 
speeds to the global economic recovery. 
Global GDP growth is expected to 
remain positive at over three per cent 
this year and next, according to 
consensus economic forecasts. The 
locomotive for this is the Asia Pacific 
region and, to a lesser degree, the 
United States. Europe, however, does 
not provide similar cause for optimism, 
with consensus growth forecasts 
remaining below two per cent. Many 
financial market indicators show that 
although the likelihood of a double-dip 
recession continues to recede, 
economic uncertainty is high. There  
is a wide dispersion around the 
consensus forecasts for growth, 
particularly for the US and Europe. 
This is largely the result of two lasting 
impacts from the global financial crisis. 
First, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe 
shows little sign of abating. In spite of 
bail-outs, contagion, debt sustainability, 
bond restructuring and even outright 
default remain legitimate concerns. 
Another uncertainty is what impact  
the withdrawal of unconventional policy 
measures, such as quantitative easing, 
will have in Europe, the US, and the UK. 
Asia’s challenges are quite different. 
Buoyant domestic economies and 
increasing global food prices are stoking 
inflation. India is raising base rates and 
China is using an array of tools in an 
attempt to check rising prices. The 
biggest danger is a policy overreaction, 
which in turn hinders growth. 
The development of the global  
property market in 2010 echoed these 
macroeconomic trends. Asia Pacific 
enjoyed another stellar year. Invested 
stock, the value of investment grade 
commercial real estate, grew by  
14 per cent in spite of declines in  
Japan, according to DTZ’s annual 
Money into Property research report. 
The importance of China to the region is 
reflected by the fact it now has invested 
stock in excess of US$1 trillion and  
that growth in 2010 was a remarkable 
22 per cent. DTZ Research estimates 
that in 2011 invested stock in the Asia 
Pacific region will surpass the US. 
Invested stock in Europe, the US and  
UK was essentially flat in 2010 and  
it remains below the 2007 peak. 
Global investment transaction volumes 
rose by 76 per cent in 2010. Again this 
was largely as a result of record volumes 
in Asia Pacific. UK volumes grew by 
nearly 50 per cent from a low base.  
They are now in line with their long run 
average (1997–2010), but well below the 
cyclical peak. Cross-border investment 
activity has also recovered after two 
years of substantial declines.
For a business that derives large parts of 
its revenues from the Asia Pacific region, 
these are encouraging trends. For DTZ, 
China has become a second home 
market and last year Greater China 
reported 16.4 per cent year-on-year 
growth. The Group continues to 
strengthen its position throughout  
the Asia Pacific region where it now 
operates from 36 cities.
The Group’s global presence also 
means that it is well positioned to  
benefit from the increase in cross-border 
activity. Sentiment is clearly improving 
and liquidity has rebounded. Investors 
took advantage of attractive pricing to 
move back into commercial property in 
2010. Globally, private equity increased 
as a source of capital by 11 per cent 
according to DTZ Research.
The DTZ Fair Value Index™, which  
offers investors insight into the relative 
attractiveness of current pricing in prime 
office, retail and industrial markets, has 
declined to a global score of 50 out of  
a maximum of 100 as at Q1 2011. This 
implies that property is broadly correctly 
priced. Investors will now need to be 
more discriminating and disciplined  
to realise the best opportunities. 
This is an environment in which the 
strength of our Power of One business 
model – whereby we share our 
knowledge, skills and resources across 
service lines and country borders to 
bring the best of our global expertise  
to each and every client engagement – 
can come to the fore. 
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review
continued 010203040506070
Source: DTZ Research
Global DTZ Fair Value Index™
(Score out of 100)
 
Q1 2011
Q4 2010
Q3 2010
Q2 2010
Q1 2010
Q4 2009
Q3 2009
Q2 2009
Q1 2009
 DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011    15
Business Review
The first quarter of 2010, when the 
global DTZ Fair Value Index™ score 
stood at 67 , was the ideal entry point  
into commercial property. However,  
Asia Pacific remains very attractive,  
with an index score of 65, which  
should continue to support DTZ’s 
market-leading business in the region. 
In Europe and the UK, the DTZ Fair 
Value Index™ score has fallen more 
markedly, but opportunities remain with 
more than 50 per cent of markets in 
both regions still attractive. By attractive 
we mean that returns are expected  
to be at, or above the level, we think 
sufficiently compensate investors for the 
markets’ risk. These include areas where 
DTZ maintains a top tier market position, 
such as London West End and City 
offices. Many attractive opportunities  
in the UK are outside London, which 
should play to the strengths of DTZ’s 
market-leading regional presence. 
Though many core markets in CEMEA 
offer lower value, the best opportunities 
are in those markets where the Group  
is directing the most resources. Many 
German markets are rated attractive  
and over the course of the last  
financial year the Group added  
70 new employees in that country.  
This team is already generating 
significant new business wins. 
Deleveraging continues. During the 
calendar year 2010, according to DTZ’s 
Money into Property report globally, 
loan-to-value (gearing) ratios fell from  
64 per cent to 61 per cent, reflecting 
both a larger proportion of equity and  
a rise in capital values. The normalisation 
of monetary policy, withdrawal of special 
liquidity measures and the requirements 
of Basel III will place additional strain  
on the banking system. Over a third  
of outstanding global property debt  
will mature between the beginning of 
2011 and end of 2013. The increasing 
pressure on lenders is likely to lead  
them to seek creative solutions and 
should provide a further boost to 
transaction activity.  DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16
Corporate Development 
As announced on 6 August 2010, the 
Group completed its acquisition of the 
20 per cent of DTZ Asset Management 
Europe SAS that it did not already own. 
This action was in line with our stated 
strategy of pursuing profitable revenue 
growth from annuity businesses. 
The Group also acquired a further  
10 per cent interest in Edmund Tie  
& Company Holdings Pte Limited on  
22 November 2010. This took DTZ’s 
holding to 61 per cent. The business 
operates in Singapore, Vietnam, 
Malaysia, Thailand, and Indonesia. 
South East Asia is a region where the 
Group sees good growth opportunities 
and we are confident this acquisition  
will deliver long-term benefits. 
In Canada, DTZ took full ownership of 
the Montreal operation acquiring the 
outstanding 33 per cent minority stake.
Where the opportunity for profitable 
organic growth exists, DTZ has 
continued to pursue a strategy of 
targeted geographic expansion, 
particularly into those markets where  
our clients need us to be. To this effect, 
the Group opened a new office in 
Changsha in central China, taking the 
number of DTZ offices in Greater China 
to 18. DTZ’s presence in the high growth 
second-tier cities of China is a significant 
point of differentiation for the Group. 
In the Asia Pacific region, DTZ also 
added a fifth city to its Indian coverage 
by opening in Hyderabad. The Group 
has additionally entered into an affiliate 
arrangement with Baltic Property Expert 
to offer real estate services to DTZ 
clients in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. 
Strategy
The long-term strategy of DTZ remains 
unchanged in the current financial year. 
The core objective is to become the best 
real estate services firm for our clients in 
the markets where the Group chooses 
to compete. This will be driven by the 
One Firm approach, as encompassed 
by our corporate tagline – Bringing You 
the Power of One™. 
Strengthened client relationships and the 
provision of a more seamless service will 
not only drive revenues, but will also make 
them sustainable over the cycle, thereby 
enabling us to deliver for shareholders  
and attract further investment. 
At the outset of the last financial year  
we set out three strategic priorities.
Our first was to pursue profitable organic 
growth, with a particular focus on DTZ’s 
two home markets of Greater China and 
the UK, and our annuity businesses – 
Investment & Asset Management and 
Property Management. While at Group 
level revenue declined, it is encouraging 
to see the progress we are making in  
our target markets and I will now review 
our progress in each market in turn.
Greater China has once more been a 
standout success for DTZ delivering 
16.4 per cent year-on-year growth last 
year. DTZ remains the number one 
commercial real estate firm in China  
and it accounts for over 60 per cent  
of the Group’s Asia Pacific revenue. 
Despite the economic headwinds the UK 
business faced, DTZ maintained a top 
five market position, with a strong team  
in London complemented by a broad 
regional footprint and public sector 
coverage, both of which represent  
a point of differentiation and long-term 
competitive advantage for DTZ. 
 
Our Investment & Asset Management 
business has made excellent progress 
during the last financial year, increasing 
revenue contribution to the Group by 
almost 20 per cent. Our aim going 
forward is to broaden the geographic 
reach of the business and add further 
assets under management while 
continuing to deliver investment 
performance, something we are  
well positioned to do. 
While in Poland, DTZ’s property 
management portfolio has doubled 
during the year, progress in property 
management in the UK has been  
slower than expected. However, the 
appointments of a Head of Business 
and a full-time Head of Sales for 
property management, as well as the 
communication we have undertaken 
with clients to understand their needs 
more effectively, are important steps in 
restructuring this business line, realising 
operational efficiencies, and ultimately 
delivering profitable growth. 
Profitable organic revenue growth and 
reversing the downward revenue trend 
at a Group level remains a strategic 
priority. During the past financial year  
we added significant talent to our fee 
earning capacity in our core markets 
and we will continue to invest in senior 
fee earning staff to drive revenue growth. 
Over the next 12 months, alongside  
a continued focus on our annuity 
businesses, China and the UK, 
geographically we will build on the 
progress we have made in strengthening 
our CEMEA business by focusing on 
those markets where we have the 
strongest operations, namely –  
France, Germany, Sweden,  
Poland, and Belgium.
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review
continued  DTZ Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011    17
Business Review
Our second strategic priority for 2010/11 
was to embed our cost containment 
initiatives. The cost conscious culture 
introduced two years ago has endured 
during the year and is now deeply 
ingrained across DTZ. We have also 
continued to restructure businesses to 
align with changing market demand, for 
example reducing the cost base of those 
teams which serve the public sector.
Our targets for cost reduction were 
aggressive. I am pleased to report  
that the pre-exceptional operating  
costs to revenue ratio continued to  
fall to 29.6 per cent from 30.5 per cent. 
However, largely a result of the decline  
in Group revenue and the reversal of  
the voluntary salary reduction (VSR)  
and reinstatement of Group pension 
contributions, we have missed our  
target to continue reducing the pre-
exceptional staff costs to revenue ratio, 
seeing an increase to 70.2 per cent  
from 67 .7 per cent. 
Consistent with our aim to selectively 
invest in new talent while further 
improving our cost structure, moving 
forward we are looking to further reduce 
our staff and operating costs to target  
a 10 per cent profit before tax margin 
over the cycle.
The final strategic priority outlined last 
year was to deepen client relationships  
by delivering the benefits of the Power  
of One. Investments have been made  
in sales training, client management 
processes and systems to facilitate cross-
selling and develop a high performance 
sales culture. This is already delivering 
positive results including the increase in 
Director profitability I referenced earlier. 
Additionally I am pleased to report that 
despite the overall reduction in the 
Group’s revenue during the year, the 
number of clients from whom we derive 
revenues in excess of £0.5 million 
increased to 1 1 1 during the year. 
The strength and depth of our long 
established client relationships is 
something for which we are renowned 
and very proud. Embedding the Power 
of One and increasing cross-selling 
across service lines and geographies 
remains one of our strategic priorities  
for the 2011/12 financial year and we  
are confident further progress in this 
area will be achieved in the near future.
Corporate Responsibility
DTZ continues to be fully committed  
to conducting its business in a socially 
responsible manner, balancing 
commercial imperatives with our duties 
to stakeholders and the communities  
in which we operate. One achievement 
in this area over the past 12 months of 
which we are particularly proud is our 
participation, and subsequent Bronze 
rating, in Business in the Community’s 
2011 Corporate Responsibility Index.
The index provides a benchmark of  
a company’s Corporate Responsibility 
activity in the UK and the significant 
year-on-year improvement in DTZ’s 
rating is testament to the importance  
our people place on Corporate 
Responsibility both as employees  
within DTZ, and in the sustainability 
services we deliver for clients. 
Summary
It has been another difficult year, but I am 
encouraged by the continued advances 
that have been made. That said, the 
structural impediments to the Group 
achieving its full potential in terms of 
revenue generation have proved more 
enduring and difficult to overcome than 
anticipated. While we are behind schedule, 
there is a positive momentum in many of 
our key business areas and where further 
work is required, such as in CEMEA, we 
are taking the necessary actions. 
In spite of some headwinds we  
remain confident that we have the  
right strategy in place. Considerable 
progress has already been made and 
we are committed to continuing to work 
towards the goals that we have set. DTZ 
has been restructured and refocused. 
The transformation continues and will 
deliver sustainable growth and 
profitability in the long term. 
Paul T. Idzik
Group Chief Executive
7 July 2011 
