 4
STRATEGIC REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report DX’s trading 
results for the year to 30 June 2015.
In a difficult trading environment, 
the group’s financial results show a 
satisfactory performance. Revenues from 
ongoing activities totalled £297.5 million 
for the year (2014: £304.2 million from 
ongoing activities and £7.8 million from 
activities ceased during 2014). The 2% 
net decline in ongoing revenue masks 
progress with new customer wins, 
which largely offset our contract review 
programme, where we have reviewed 
and exited from business not providing 
acceptable returns.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) from ongoing 
activities of £33.7 million was consistent 
with the prior year (2014: £33.7 million 
from ongoing activities and £0.7 million 
from ceased activities). Cash generation 
remained strong and DX closed the year 
with net debt of £1.8 million (2014: £12.2 
million), an 85% reduction in net debt 
against the corresponding date last year. 
The group’s strong cash flows support our 
significant investment plans for the 
business as well as our progressive 
dividend objective.
It should be noted that the comparative 
results for the prior year include eight 
months when DX was under private 
equity ownership and only four months 
as an AIM-quoted company with a 
recapitalised balance sheet.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to propose the 
payment of a final dividend of 4p per 
share (2014: 2p per share). This, together 
with the interim dividend of 2p per share, 
paid on 27 March 2015, takes the total 
dividend for the year to 6p per share 
(2014: 2p per share in respect of the four 
month period post AIM admission).
The final dividend, which is subject to 
shareholder approval, will be paid on 
16 November 2015 to shareholders 
on the register on 9 October 2015.
A BUSINESS IN TRANSITION
As previously stated, DX is a business 
in transition as we execute our OneDX 
integration and development plan. 
Under this major initiative, we are 
putting in place solid foundations for 
future growth. Our OneDX plan is bringing 
all our operations together onto a single 
enhanced operating platform, with the 
latest technology driving systems and 
processes throughout the business. This 
far-reaching programme includes the 
phased implementation of a new routing 
and scheduling system across our 
operations and the rationalisation and 
development of our site network. Our 
goal is to deliver strong customer service 
benefits and generate efficiencies. 
We made steady progress over the  
year in the execution of our OneDX 
programme. 
Our plans to develop a major new UK 
distribution hub took a significant step 
forward in May when we announced the 
proposed purchase of a 44-acre site in 
the West Midlands. As we reported, the 
site purchase is conditional on planning 
consent and we estimate net capital 
expenditure of approximately £35 million 
for the project, comprising the site 
acquisition, development and fit-out 
costs less proceeds from the sale of 
existing freeholds.
Our OneDX strategy remains a key focus 
for the group and we anticipate similar 
levels of capital expenditure in the new 
financial year, as well as additional 
investment for the proposed new hub. 
We will continue to lay the foundations  
to support DX’s long-term success, whilst 
also continuing to manage DX Exchange, 
our bespoke secure document handling 
business which is exposed to 
e-substitution.
BOB HOLT | CHAIRMAN
Financial results show a 
satisfactory performance 
whilst the OneDX integration 
and development plan 
is implemented. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5
OUR PEOPLE
Our colleagues have shown tremendous 
dedication and commitment to our 
customers and to the group and their 
hard work and passion helps to drive  
the company’s success. On behalf of  
the Board, I would like to acknowledge 
everyone’s contribution and to thank all 
our colleagues whose efforts are greatly 
appreciated.
OUTLOOK
We are establishing firm foundations for 
DX’s long-term growth under our OneDX 
programme and this will remain a major 
focus over the new financial year. As we 
move through the programme, we expect 
to see efficiency gains as well as capacity 
and service benefits. At the same time, 
we are working on initiatives to enhance 
the services we provide our customers. 
Our aim is to expand within those areas 
where we have strong differentiation, 
including highly secure deliveries, 2-Man 
and larger, heavier, more awkward 
to handle consignments (irregular 
dimension and weight (‘IDW’) items). 
We remain confident of further progress 
as we continue to deliver on the group’s 
corporate strategy. 
BOB HOLT
CHAIRMAN
OUR KEY STRENGTHS
  C US T O M E R C A R E
Customer service remains our priority 
and we continually aim to meet and 
exceed our customers’ expectations. 
In particular, our leadership team seeks 
to develop close customer relationships 
so that we can respond and adapt to 
changing customer needs. 
   H I G H S E C U R I T Y
We specialise in the delivery of high value 
items, including passports, jewellery, 
bank cards and medical supplies. This 
service is carried out by our stringently 
vetted personnel and our secure trunking 
vehicles have been fitted with tracking 
devices and other security innovations.
   P R O V E N N E X T 
DAY AND TIME-
SENSITIVE 
DELIVERIES 
We provide next day delivery of any 
item large or small, from an important 
document to a bicycle. We have a 98.5% 
on time collection and delivery SLA.
   
RANGE OF SERVICES 
We offer the UK’s most comprehensive 
range of services. These span the 
delivery of next day mail, Downstream 
access mail services, secure tracked 
parcels, the delivery of larger items 
(irregular dimension and weight) and 
heavier items requiring a 2-Man delivery.
 
 I N V E S T M EN T A N D 
INNOVATION 
We are investing in the business for 
sustainable long-term growth. Our high 
level of capital investment, particularly 
in IT and our network, will enable us to 
improve the customer experience and 
build market advantage. 
