 8 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Chairman’s letter
JOHN BARTON, CHAIRMAN
Continuing to deliver
Returns to shareholders
Last year the Board announced its policy to increase the 
dividend payout ratio to 40% of profit after tax, in line with the 
broader market. After another successful year we are pleased  
to recommend a dividend for the year of 55.2 pence per share, 
an increase of 22%.
People
As always, our people have again made a significant contribution 
to the success of the business. I would particularly like to thank 
those on the front line, who sustained high standards of 
customer service throughout the year. We continue to dedicate 
resource to attracting the right people for the business and  
in the development and retention of our existing employees.  
It is the strength of our people that will enable us to meet  
our ambitious objectives for the future. 
On the Board, we have recently welcomed Andrew Findlay as 
our incoming Chief Financial Officer, joining the Company on  
2 October 2015. I would like to thank Chris Kennedy for his 
significant contribution to the successful growth of the Company 
in the last five years and wish him success in the future.
Conclusion
We believe that our business model and strategy will deliver 
long-term value to shareholders. Our clear focus is to fulfil our 
customers’ needs via a network of airports, routes, frequencies  
and slots that is unrivalled in European short-haul aviation. This, 
combined with our fleet expansion plans, gives us a significant 
opportunity for future profitable growth and increasing shareholder 
returns. We look forward to another 20 years of success.
JOHN BARTON
Non-Executive Chairman
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
Reflecting another year of growth, I am pleased 
to report that your Company has delivered 
record profit for the fifth year in a row, with 
profit before tax up 18% to £686 million.
Celebrating 20 years as a business
easyJet celebrated its 20th birthday in November 2015. It is 
remarkable how far we have come in this short period of time. 
We have grown to become the second biggest short-haul airline 
in Europe, carrying almost 70 million passengers a year and we 
are now an established FTSE 100 company with £4.7 billion of 
revenue. Over the 20 years we have retained our entrepreneurial 
spirit and maintained our focus on providing customers with 
excellent service at a reasonable cost, the main reason for  
our success. 
Strategy
Our strategy remains focused on delivering market-leading 
innovation in customer service, whilst establishing a network  
of routes and frequencies that benefit from strong demand.  
We continue to see a number of opportunities to grow in a 
profitable and disciplined way and our announcement of an 
agreement with Airbus to take delivery of an additional 36  
A320 aircraft will help us to capitalise on these.
There have been several regulatory developments in the year. 
We are engaging with the European Union to address efficiency 
in a new EU Aviation strategy, including overall regulatory 
structure, air traffic control, regulated airports, levies and 
taxation. We were pleased with the Airports Commission’s  
final report in July recommending that the Government expand 
its aviation capacity in London. We are also encouraged to see 
the Government engaging on Air Passenger Duty, against a 
backdrop of evidence that clearly indicates that an increase  
in air passenger traffic is a contributor to economic growth.
