 02
EatonfiEld group plc Annu Al RepoR t And Accounts 2008
The past year has been an extremely difficult one for the property 
and construction sector for a number of reasons, all of which have 
been well publicised.
In the light of these market conditions, a profit before tax of £4.04m 
represents an acceptable outcome for Eatonfield, albeit this is largely 
due to revaluation gains on two key investment properties.
Towards the end of 2007, in order to address the slowdown in the 
residential market, we reduced our projected number of ‘new builds’. 
n o new residential developments are being commenced and we are 
building units only on those sites that were already under development. 
As a result, Eatonfield now has only three sites that are under construction 
and completion of these is scheduled for Q4 2008. We have reduced the 
size and cost base of our construction activities accordingly.
the outlook for the next twelve months and beyond remains uncertain 
and the senior management team has reduced operating and overhead 
costs during the year to allow for this. we continue to employ a stringent 
cash management regime and we have the support of all six of our lenders 
at current debt levels. A loan of £750,000 has been received from our CEO 
and major shareholder Rob lloyd, which was approved by shareholders 
at the general meeting held on 24 October 2008. The Board believes 
this cash injection will take the Group to the point where sufficient funds 
will be available from refinancing or site sales to generate positive trading 
cash flows for the Group.
at present, we do not anticipate any material improvement in the 
residential market before 2010/11. In the commercial market, we are 
working on the basis that further falls in value are likely before any recovery 
starts to materialise. the board therefore remains focussed upon generating, 
and conserving, cash through property sales and is unable to recommend 
the payment of a dividend at this time but aims to return to its progressive 
dividend policy as soon as it is reasonable to do so. 
t here are exciting prospects for a number of our sites where planning 
applications have recently been submitted and which, when approved, 
are expected to materially increase the value of these properties. we are 
working closely with the relevant local authorities and interested parties 
to secure a positive planning response. we also continue to seek to add 
value to other properties by reappraising planning consents and changing 
the mix of intended uses to maximise the opportunity for returns on each site.
it is with regret that the board has accepted the resignation of Howard Jones, 
group f inance director, who has been approached to join a company 
with which he was previously associated. i would like to thank Howard for 
his help since he joined the Company. we are fortunate that our group 
chairman’s statement
Summary   the senior management team has reduced 
operating and overhead costs during the year.
  Eatonfield has the support of all six of its 
lenders at current debt levels.
  The Board remains focussed upon generating 
and conserving cash through property sales.
“ I thank the Eatonfield team for 
their continuing dedication and 
enthusiasm throughout this period.”
_0_EAT_ar08_Front.indd   2 24/11/2008   16:15:40 03
EatonfiEld group plc Annu Al RepoR t And Accounts 2008
financial accountant, who has been with us for four years, will provide 
consistency until a suitable replacement is found. 
Considering my own position as Chairman of the group, i have decided 
that the time is right, once the Board has identified a suitable replacement, 
for me to retire. i have enjoyed being Chairman of the group and i am 
confident that Eatonfield will again thrive when the market improves. 
In these difficult times, it is even more important to have reliable 
and proactive advisers. i would like to convey thanks to baker t illy, 
Hammonds llP , KPMg llP and evolution securities limited for the help 
and independent advice they have given. events in recent months will be 
reviewed by economic historians in years to come as times of great and, 
in the main, unprecedented change and I thank the Eatonfield team for 
their continuing dedication and enthusiasm throughout this period.
Sir lESliE young
CHaiRMan
financial Summary   Profit from operations as a percentage of 
Revenue increased to 47% (2007: 29%).
  Total assets increased to £54.6m (2007: £47.7m) 
after stock write down of £5.0m.
  Sales since year end of £3.5m with 
further completions of £1.1m expected 
by December 2008.
  Associated debt reduction on sales since year 
end of £2.5m, with further debt reduction of 
£900,000 expected by December 2008.
geographical spread 
of sites owned, under 
contract, in a joint venture 
or profit share agreement 
within the financial year 
2007–2008.
_0_EAT_ar08_Front.indd   3 24/11/2008   16:15:41
