 04
EatonfiEld group plc Annu Al RepoR t And Accounts 2008
The last twelve months have been a challenging time for Eatonfield, and for 
the property sector generally, and we have had to adapt to a very different 
marketplace from the one existing at the time of my 2007 review.
The commercial market remains difficult. Valuations have fallen from 
their early 2007 peak and continue to do so. However, this also brings 
opportunities for off-market distressed purchases, one of our key strengths. 
We continue to explore potential joint ventures, profit share agreements and 
unassignable options as a lower risk way of gaining an entry to new projects 
and generating further profits. We are hopeful of a significant profit from 
two sites, Paignton and Ystalyfera, which are the subject of profit share 
agreements. t hese do not appear on our balance sheet and should be 
realised in the financial year to 30 June 2010. We are actively working 
on three brownfield regeneration sites, two of which, with the benefit of 
mixed-use planning permission, should deliver significant added value 
by the summer of 2009.
The residential market has deteriorated significantly and sales have become 
sluggish. However, we continue to build a quality product, with a focus on 
quality ratings, for which we have won building control awards. o f late, 
we have seen even greater pricing pressure on residential properties, as a 
lack of mortgage availability makes it a buyer’s market for those with funds, 
and demand for attractive sales incentives becomes the norm. we have 
taken prudent steps to dispose of inventory and reduce debt, the result of 
which, together with a significant write down of both finished housing and 
land, has resulted in lower year-end asset values.
we have a residential land bank spread over a number of sites, primarily 
in Wales, with existing planning permission for 530 plots and a further 
1,287 potential plots which are currently going through the planning process. 
Business review:
Chief executive’s statement
Summary   We have a residential land bank spread over 
a number of sites.
  We continue to build a quality product, with 
a focus on quality ratings, for which we have 
won building control awards.
  We have taken prudent steps to dispose 
of inventory and reduce debt.
“ eAtonfield RemAins Well 
positioned to t Ake Adv Ant Age 
of the pRopeR ty mARket As it 
st ARts to RecoveR .”
_0_EAT_ar08_Front.indd   4 24/11/2008   16:15:44 caSE Study coruS rail SitE
tHe site
an 87 acre industrial site at w orkington in 
Cumbria. the site was previously owned by 
Corus Rail and used for manufacturing steel for 
railway line production. In 2006, Corus moved 
the majority of their operations from workington 
to their plant at scunthorpe, leaving the site 
disused. d emolition of the buildings and 
machinery is the responsibility of Corus and has 
commenced, with estimated completion in 
December 2008.
tHe PuRCHase
An agent previously known to Eatonfield introduced 
the site as an off-market deal. Eatonfield completed 
the purchase in November 2007, with the funding 
for the acquisition being raised through existing 
banking facilities. 
tHe Planning
Ian Arnott, Eatonfield’s Development Director, 
manages the external consultants, with the 
planning process lead by Knight f rank. an outline 
planning application supported by nine reports has 
been submitted for a mixed-use scheme, which 
includes residential housing, a care village, district 
shopping, a hotel, offices, industrial starter units 
and recreational opportunities. Eatonfield have 
undertaken extensive public consultation and 
are confident that the outline application has 
widespread local support.
THE VIsION
The flagship scheme will be part of the linked 
core regeneration from the dock basin through 
derwent Howe to the Corus Rail site. the site is 
in an ideal location, which combines a waterfront 
setting with proximity to the town centre and will 
provide a first class place to live and work, as well 
as generating tourism on the coast.
05
EatonfiEld group plc Annu Al RepoR t And Accounts 2008
we retain the option of either developing some of those sites when the 
market improves or selling them off.
Eatonfield has six lenders, with just under half of its individual project-related 
loans maturing in over twelve months’ time. overdraft facilities have also 
been agreed through to september 2009 with our two main bankers. 
However, our expectation is that future debt costs will be at higher rates 
than those we currently enjoy, as base rates fall but bank margins increase. 
o ur focus continues to be on cash generation and cost cutting in these 
uncertain times.
During the last few months, we have taken significant action to restructure 
our business and address the changing circumstances in which we operate. 
these include:
 the closure of three local offices;
 the decision to relocate our head office to smaller premises;
 the reduction of overhead costs by approximately 25%;
 a reduction in unconditional land acquisitions;
 a stop on speculative new house building;
  building relationships with housing associations who continue 
to be buyers of land; and
  reappraising planning consents on existing owned assets to 
improve land values.
it is with regret that sir l eslie Young has decided to retire as Chairman of 
the group in the near future. He has contributed enormously to the board 
and was fundamental to the success of the Company’s entry into aiM in 
November 2006. His wisdom and experience has proven invaluable to me. 
whilst the outlook for the uK construction market remains uncertain, 
the team here at Eatonfield is well placed to maximise the profitable 
opportunities that exist, both from within our existing property portfolio 
and from new projects that we continue to identify and progress.
We are confident that having taken the actions described above, together 
with the skills and expertise that we have within our business, Eatonfield 
remains well positioned to take advantage of the property market as it 
starts to recover.
roB lloyd chief executive 
“ We continue to explore lower risk ways 
of gaining an entry to new projects 
and generating further profits.”
_0_EAT_ar08_Front.indd   5 24/11/2008   16:15:46
