 Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s Review
6
Overview
The year to 30 June 2007 has seen a step change in the Group at all levels, both on a financial level,
with turnover, profits and margins increasing and at an operational level with average staff numbers
increasing from 27 to 46.
The business
The flotation and the funds raised in that process have allowed us to substantially grow our land bank.
As well as additional commercial and unallocated sites for development, we have allocated sites with
planning permission for 800 houses to be built by our housing division team, led ably by Nick Marrs.
I anticipate this division growing both organically, and if the right opportunities arise, by targeted
regional acquisitions. Our homes are built to Building Research Establishment Environment Assessment
Method (BREEAM) ‘Excellent’ standard and Code of Sustainable Housing level 5, which represents 
a 100% improvement on current building regulation requirements. We shall be improving on this further
to demonstrate our commitment to sustainable construction and to developing the Eatonfield brand.
As mentioned by our Chairman, the commercial sector has seen a slowdown at a national level but 
on a regional basis we believe profitable opportunities continue to exist for the foreseeable future.
We have strengthened our local buying team to help access these opportunities with additional
resources based both in the North and the South West of England. The Northern resource will also work
on Scottish projects. Jon Richards and myself will lead these buying resources to identify sites for
housing, commercial and mixed site developments.
Whilst most of the revenue in 2006 and 2007 came from the commercial sector, I anticipate this
proportion will be lower for the coming year, albeit the move will be gradual and we expect these
commercial developments or land sales will still account for over half the revenues. We will also
continue to tactically use joint ventures and profit share agreements as a way of accessing individual
projects; we have such relationships with Ethel Austin Properties Limited, Modus Properties Limited
and Jenard Properties Limited.
Rugeley Cross development in Hednesford, Staffordshire
Rob Lloyd, Group Chief Executive 7
Staff
Our internal design and planning function has more than doubled in size to support the growth of the
Group. The finance function too has increased to support the needs of the business and be ready for
the IFRS implementation in next year’s accounts. In this regard, we welcome Howard Jones,
an experienced Finance Director, as Financial Controller to take charge of both this process and the
systems required to implement it. I look forward to working with him going forward.
I would like to add many thanks to all the Eatonfield team at every level. They are a pleasure to work
with and the business growth is a testament to their commitment and skill. All our staff and advisers
have proved invaluable in achieving this year’s step changes. As a management team, we very much
look forward to continuing this progress in the coming year and beyond.
Rob Lloyd
Chief Executive
All our staff and
advisers have 
proved invaluable 
in achieving this
year’s step changes.
Eatonfield purchased the Old Post Office Distribution Depot and the Viking Centre in Driffield in February 2006
and plans to redevelop the two sites as one.
The Old Post Office Depot is a two story building with vacant possession. The Viking Centre is a two storey
building, sub-divided into twelve units, one of which is currently let but with the tenant due to vacate,
the combined site is 2.3 acres in area.
Eatonfield entered into a joint venture with Ethel Austin Properties Holdings Limited, to assemble the sites,
obtain planning permission and market the site for re-development. A planning application has been
submitted to the Local Authority to seek permission for a new Supermarket and residential scheme, whilst
retaining some of the existing properties.
Eatonfield have exchanged contracts to sell the site conditional upon obtaining a satisfactory consent 
to another developer.
“The re-development of the Viking Centre site represents
an exciting opportunity to regenerate this underused site
and to extend the vibrant town centre of Driffield.“
Rob Lloyd, Group Chief Executive 
Case study 
Driffield regeneration scheme
