 Annual Report 2007
Chairman’s Statement
4
The foundation of 
our business is our
staff and on behalf 
of the Board,
I would like to thank
them all for their
hard work 
and loyalty.
I am pleased to report the results for the year ended 30 June 2007 which show an increase in operating
profits of 43% to £5.14m (2006: £3.60m) on the back of a 7% increase in turnover to £18.63m 
(2006: £17.35m). Our margins have also improved as we have increased the proportion of commercial
transactions within the sales.
We will be recommending to shareholders a dividend of 1.5p per share, in line with the undertaking
made at the time of our admission onto AIM last November.
People
The executive team has remained focused in a year where a large part of its attention was diverted by
the admission process at the end of November 2006. I would like to extend our thanks to Terry Carroll,
who has been our finance director since flotation and who resigned with effect from 12 September 2007,
for all his help with that process.
My thanks also go to Rob Lloyd for his leadership and his focus on the needs of the business from both
a trading and strategic perspective.
I would also like to thank Suki Kalirai, my fellow non-executive director, who brings a wealth of business
experience to the Board and has made a significant contribution to our deliberations and our
performance for the year.
The foundation of our business is our staff and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them all for
their hard work and loyalty.
Outlook
The well-publicised mid-term shortage of housing in the UK means that we expect to see continued
volume growth in this sector. As well as the broader consumer aspects, the economics of the sector
and the speed of growth in the housing sales are being affected by:
– the planning process, which is becoming more drawn out with lead times for the whole cycle
moving from 12 months to close to 24 months. This is an area in which we are particularly
strong as our teams work with local planning authorities to ensure the fastest possible 
turn around;
– the continued increase in competition for available plots. Our teams remain focused regionally
and therefore, with their local expertise and knowledge, we are in a strong position to continue
to grow our substantial land bank further.
Housing demand continues to be buoyant in the regional areas in which we operate and we
anticipate a significant increase in house sales in 2007/8 as more of our development projects come
to fruition.
The commercial sector has seen a downturn in the yields being achieved over the last 12 months.
We do not envisage this changing significantly in the near term. However, for a business of our size,
there are still significant potential opportunities in pure commercial projects as well as in the
development of mixed use sites on a regional basis. We continue to explore a sufficient number 
of substantial opportunities in both our commercial and residential businesses to feel confident that
our strategy of growing both areas is the right one. 5
This is an exciting time for Eatonfield and I remain confident of our prospects for the coming financial
year and beyond.
Finally, I would like to thank our key advisors; Baker Tilly, Evolution and Hammonds, who have also
helped and supported us throughout the year.
Sir Leslie Young
Chairman  
This is an exciting
time for Eatonfield
and I remain
confident of our
prospects for the
coming financial year
and beyond.
Eatonfield purchased the 24 acre industrial site, the former
manufacturing facility of electronics firm, Bookham Technology
on the 17th November 2006. Located in Paignton, Devon the
site is within an area of mixed residential and commercial use.
Eatonfield worked with local agencies to produce a master plan
for the regeneration of the site, to reinvigorate the area and
promote sustainable jobs. The planning process and
redevelopment of this site was due to take 5-10 years.
Eatonfield sold the site to Modus Paignton Limited on the 
4th June 2007. The deal was structured so that it gives
Eatonfield a share in any future development gains or any 
profit arising from an earlier sale.
“We have a very talented land-buying
team behind our cash generative
business. The capital released from
Paignton will be reapplied in
opportunities we already have 
in hand.”
Sir Leslie Young, Chairman
Case study 
Paignton Regeneration Scheme
