 23891.04  16 April 2015 5:03 PM Proof 6
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
FY2015 was a transformational year for 
the Group with record revenues and a 
significant return to profitability. When I 
joined the Board we had limited financial 
resources, market expectations of £5.00m 
turnover, a demoralised workforce and 
management team and lack of appropriate 
Board structure. However, our key 
stakeholders – customers, employees 
and shareholders – continued to be 
supportive as they believed in the Group 
and the significant potential of this new and 
emerging market. The Board would like to 
thank these stakeholders for their support 
and patience.
The plan we established at the start of 
the year built upon the investments made 
and the product set of the Group and 
I am delighted that this has delivered 
an exceptional year of growth in all key 
metrics. We have achieved 69% growth 
in turnover, returned to profitability, 
re-established cash generation, built a 
strong management team and Board and 
restored morale within the business. We 
have also achieved a substantial increase 
in recurring revenues providing improved 
visibility and quality of earnings. These 
are significant achievements given the 
position the Group was in just a year ago.
The increase in demand for back office 
workforce optimisation solutions has been 
triggered by the ongoing global trend of 
businesses looking to improve customer 
service, operational efficiency, cost control 
and risk management. The Group’s 
products deliver guaranteed benefits 
for its customers in each of these key 
result areas and it has an enviable track 
record of successful implementations and 
customer retention. 
This market demand, together with our 
ability to develop and deliver products 
which meet our customer needs, provides 
a firm foundation for the Group. 
The investments we have made in the 
Group this year have further strengthened 
our market position and were 
underpinned by the placing we completed 
in January 2015. The successful raise 
of £3.19m, in addition to the £0.55m of 
convertible loan notes issued in February 
2014, was a strong endorsement of our 
strategy. 
Board Developments
The last financial year also saw the Board 
strengthened through the appointment 
of a number of new Directors, alongside 
myself and Elizabeth, bringing with 
them extensive relevant experience 
that is already benefitting the business. 
Following my appointment as Non-
Executive Chairman, John Brougham 
and Mark Brady were both appointed as 
independent Non-Executive Directors, 
Jonathan Kay was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer and Elizabeth Gooch was 
confirmed as the Chief Executive Officer.
Current Trading & Outlook
FY2015 was a year of transformation 
for the Group. Building on the steps we 
have taken to build a robust platform 
for growth during the past year, the 
Board is confident that the Group is well 
positioned to continue momentum into 
the coming year. We will continue to invest 
in our market leading product, whilst also 
building the sales and marketing required 
to enable us to earn our place as the 
global leader in the market we pioneered. 
We will also complement organic growth 
with strategic acquisitions as and when 
opportunities arise. 
We look forward to continuing to deliver 
value for our customers and excellent 
results for our shareholders.
Duncan McIntyre
Chairman 
24 March 2015
‘‘We will continue to invest in our market 
leading product, whilst also building the sales 
and marketing required to enable us to earn 
our place as the global leader in the market  
we pioneered.”
Duncan McIntyre
Chairman
03
Strategic Report www.egsplc.com
EG Solutions Annual Report 2015 Front Section Proof 6.indd   3 16/04/2015   17:08:38
