 Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
6
2015 has been a milestone year 
in our short history. We have 
successfully implemented a low-
cost well re-entry strategy and 
retained our focus on maintaining 
high levels of productivity from 
our facilities. Overall gross liftings 
increased by 195% to 341,000 
bbls per annum with daily gross 
production ending the year at 
4,400 bopd.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
Eland began 2015 with the focus on increasing production 
and maintaining high productivity rates from its facilities. 
The workover strategy increased production almost 
threefold and productive uptime for the full year resulted 
in a record 84% for 2015. Since the end of the full year, 
although uptime has been negatively affected by the shut-
down at Forcados, potential production rates have seen a 
further doubling again after a very successful workover of 
the Opuama-3 well.
Opuama Well Re-entry Strategy and Production Increase
Late in 2014 we reviewed our Opuama well inventory in an 
attempt to capture low cost and low risk oil barrels through 
re-entry opportunities. We identified a total of six near 
field re-entry opportunities, of which we have completed 
three. Opuama-5 was completed in mid-2015 and did 
not perform as well as expected due to high watercut. 
However, in line with our plans we will utilise this well as 
a future water disposal well. Opuama-1 was completed in 
November 2015 and delivered an additional 1,500 bopd at a 
cost of just over $1.0 million (gross). The next re-entry well, 
Opuama-3, was completed in April 2016 and tested at over 
10,500 bopd (9,500 bopd incremental) at a cost of below 
$2.0 million (gross).
Production Efficiency & Operating Cost Reductions
During 2015 we have made a number of improvements 
to the flow station. Many of these related to improving 
the efficiency, reliability and the safety within the station. 
Modifications were made to the instrumentation system 
to allow this to be operated on compressed air rather than 
produced gas. The diesel generator was converted to dual 
fuel allowing this to run on produced gas, with greater 
efficiency and lower cost than purchased diesel. 
Refurbishment of accommodation has been ongoing and 
is due to complete this quarter, allowing the current house 
boat to be released with significant Opex savings for 2016. 
We have released the barge and tug held on standby for 
line issue failures, thanks to the excellent performance of 
the export line during 2015. The pipeline integrity for our 
section of the line was 100% in 2015.
In addition to the productive uptime improvement 
these actions have also contributed to a reduction in 
adjusted operating expenses of 24% (see page 20). When 
combined with our G&A savings of 27% the overall cost 
base has reduced by 25% year on year (excluding DD&A 
the reduction year on year is 41%). These cost reductions 
include personnel cost reductions for all senior staff and 
contractors.
The overall impact of the cost reductions and the forecast 
increase in production from Opuama-3 provides for opex 
per barrel declining to $11 for OML 40 in the second half  
of 2016.
Ubima Development
In August 2014 we acquired a 40% interest in the Ubima 
field, located onshore in the Niger Delta, just north of Port 
Harcourt within OML 17. We began some work in the field 
late in 2014 and continued this into 2015. This work involved 
confirming the Ubima 1 well integrity and maintenance on 
the wellhead, which was key to our strategy of re-entry and 
Early Production System (EPS) design. 
The Ubima-1 re-entry and Early Production System is 
included in our 2016 work programme. Its commerciality 
was further confirmed as robust by the economics in the 
recent CPR published in April 2016. Production from the 
Ubima Field will diversify the Eland portfolio, bringing in 
a secondary cash flow stream while appraising the larger 
upside on the block, and is a hugely exciting opportunity 
for the Company this year.
Funding for Operations
Like many oil producers the reduction in commodity prices 
has had an impact on our potential borrowing base. During 
George Maxwell  
Chief Executive Officer Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
7
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other information
2015 we have seen the availability of our initial committed 
$35 million debt facility (with Standard Chartered Bank) 
reduced to $25 million. The reduction was due to a 
combination of lower oil prices, market factors impacting 
bank lending and postponement of our infill drilling 
programme as we continued to work with our partner 
NPDC on our low cost workover strategy. The facility will be 
reviewed in June 2016 to include the results of Opuama-3’s 
successful and very value accretive recompletion. 
We remained sufficiently funded throughout 2015 for  
the revised lower capex work programme and as the 
success of this programme increased our produced 
volumes in conjunction with the cost reductions, we 
entered into 2016 with the borrowing base at $25 million 
and $15 million drawn. 
In April 2016, we embarked upon our first secondary fund 
raise since listing the Company in 2012. This was primarily 
to fund the Gbetiokun-1 workover, and the oversubscribed 
raise was successfully completed and placed at a premium 
to the prevailing share price. In total we raised $18.5 million, 
accepting a portion of the oversubscription to allow the 
Company to accelerate the Ubima 1 re-entry. With the 
2016 work programme underway and the equity raise 
completed, we remain fully funded for our 2016  
work programme. 
2015/2016 Work Programme and Budget
The Work Programme and Budget for 2015 had originally 
focused on the infill drilling of Opuama, combined with 
re-entry opportunities in Opuama-5 and Opuama-7. 
The infill drilling was due to commence in Q3 of 2015 
directly following the re-entry programme. A review of 
the work programme took place in Q1 of 2015 to evaluate 
opportunities to increase production without engaging a 
drilling rig, and thereby greatly reducing the cost. Of the 
initial re-entry candidates reviewed (Opuama-4, Opuama-5 
and Opuama-7), only Opuama-5 could be completed rig-
less. We embarked on this project in Q2 of last year and 
delivered Opuama-5 in July. 
While Opuama-5 produced with high watercut, we 
converted this well into a water disposal well. Moreover the 
success in the field operation provided key experiences 
in working with our partner (NPDC) and the operating 
environment with Opuama. Thereafter we developed 
further cased hole re-entries that could significantly 
increase production for a very low capital investment. 
Opuama-1 and Opuama-3 became the next two key 
production targets utilising this approach, with Opuama-1 
delivering incremental gross production of over 1,500 bopd 
in November. A successful re-entry of Opuama-3 followed 
in April of 2016, with incremental production on initial flow 
rates of 9,500 bopd. 
Health, Safety, Environment and Social Responsibility
In conjunction with all our partners we have worked 
closely again this year with our host communities. This 
year, through Elcrest, we have taken the lead in a number 
of community projects within OML 40 and Ubima. 
Eland/Elcrest directly built and funded a new wharf in 
Opuama, and constructed a walkway within the Tsekelewu 
community within OML 40. This establishes a series of 
connected walkways to allow the residents movement 
during the wet season when the land becomes more 
saturated making travel difficult. 
In Ubima community we set up a series of medical clinics 
for general health and eye sight checks. This was also very 
well received by the community. We continue to support 
community contractors ensuring work is allocated to them 
wherever possible so that as we continue with our work 
programme our host communities also continue to benefit 
from these activities.
We completed a number of safety improvements during 
2015 as mentioned earlier. We have not experienced any 
incident within OML 40 or Ubima resulting in lost time 
due to accidents in 2015. The planning we invest into our 
operations is the key to having this continued success.
Outlook
Although we have seen some recovery in the oil price since 
the start of 2016, we remain focused on retaining the cost 
savings that we identified and implemented during 2015. 
The technical work that we completed in 2015 and early 
2016, in particular with regard to Opuama-3, delivered 
levels of technical performance in planning and execution 
that were world class. Coupled with our experience in 
Opuama-1, this continues to pay dividends as we pursue 
the plan for re-entry of Gbetiokun-1 under a similar pattern. 
The CPR for Gbetiokun-1 indicates that it will initially 
produce at 7,800 bopd gross. We are fully funded for 
this re-entry, and expect production to commence in the 
second half of the year. The combination of our recent 
successes and the planned GB-1 and Ubima-1 re-entries 
should increase gross production to around 20,000 bopd 
in 2016, with 10,000 bopd net to Eland. 
There remain some challenges ahead. We have reviewed 
and improved our security plan and will ensure that we 
maintain safe operations of our personnel, partners  
and communities.
Forcados, the current export terminal for OML 40 has been 
shut down since mid-February due to sabotage. Operators 
have been advised by Shell that the terminal will re-open in 
June. However, to alleviate our single export route option, 
Eland has identified two supplementary export routes: one 
route involves a tie-in point on the Benin River for barging 
and another involves a 6 km pipeline into the Escravos 
Terminal directly linked from the OML 40 JV’s export 
pipeline. Both have been added to our 2016 programme 
and we are looking forward to providing Eland with these 
multiple export routes in the future. 
Eland has completed a milestone year in 2015 and 
continued this success into the first half of 2016. We  
have almost trebled expected production rates and 
completed the funding for a programme of a further two 
well re-entries and supplementary export routes over the 
remainder of 2016. We have positioned the Company for 
continued growth, which will allow us to push on with field 
development activity on Opuama, Gbetiokun and Ubima  
into 2017. 
The future for 2016 and beyond remains positive and 
should allow Eland to close the valuation gap with peers 
and deliver superior returns to shareholders. We expect 
2016 to build on the success of 2015, and provide truly 
exciting results by the end of the year. 
George Maxwell 
Chief Executive Officer 
27 May 2016
