 23891.04  16 April 2015 5:03 PM Proof 6
Chief Executive’s Statement
Overview
In FY2015 a number of the strategies 
that we had invested in prior to the last 
financial year began to be realised.
• Following our acquisition of Xtaq 
Limited in FY2011 we converted their 
pilot projects into successful customer 
implementations. We then invested 
in these and a number of other pilot 
projects with global and international 
customers, all with significantly greater 
roll-out potential than our traditional UK 
customer base. In 2012 we secured 
a strategic partnership with Aspect 
Software Inc. to support roll-out to 
these customers as well as distribute 
our product throughout the world. We 
also launched our Managed Cloud 
Services solution. 
• All of these strategies depressed our 
financial results during this period but 
the investments were made with the 
intention of benefitting our prospects 
and performance for the future. The 
challenges and changes during our 
2013 financial year created a difficult 
period, but with renewed focus we have 
now begun to realise their potential. 
• I am therefore delighted that in 
FY2015 each of these investments has 
contributed to transforming our results:
• We have secured ten significant 
contract wins in the period, when 
previously this has been on average 
three to four, including roll-outs to 
global customers, partner sales in 
new territories and contract wins in 
three new verticals. Customers in 
these verticals have benefited from 
our development strategy of building 
products that address cross-sector 
issues. These customers have also 
achieved the same benefits as those in 
our traditional markets. 
• As a result of our investment in our 
partnership distribution channel and our 
global customers, international sales 
now account for 37% of our turnover 
and we intend to continue investment in 
this growth area in the coming years. 
• Finally, our Managed Cloud Services 
solution is gaining traction leading 
to a significant increase in recurring 
revenues, a record order book of 
£15.44m, and improved visibility/quality 
of earnings. 
Our renewed focus on cost control 
together with the significant increase in 
revenue has also contributed to the return 
to profitability and cash generation. 
FY2015 has therefore been a year 
in which we have re-established the 
fundamentals of the business, delivered 
strong financial performance including 
record revenue levels, and laid the 
foundations for sustainable growth in the 
future. 
Market Development
The emerging back office optimisation 
market continues to develop. Businesses 
are seeking to improve the end customer 
experience across multiple channels, 
optimise their use of resources across 
these channels and maintain compliance 
with regulatory and security requirements. 
With the increase in digital business, 
customer transactions are shifting from 
the traditional and physical to data centric 
methods giving rise to an increase in 
transactions across all channels. At 
the same time customers now expect 
near or real-time responses, regardless 
of how they transact, and a key driver 
for businesses is to significantly reduce 
complex back office processing time and 
achieve real-time insight into the whole 
customer eco-system. 
Investment in the back office has 
traditionally been a low priority but it 
can no longer be ignored. It is a major 
contributor to the success of the 
customer experience and, according to 
Frost & Sullivan’s recent report, can often 
be the engine that drives organisational 
performance from behind the scenes.
“These contracts also led to a 20% increase in 
the user base of our software, to over 100,000 
licences sold in the UK and globally.”
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer
04
eg solutions plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 January 2015 Stock Code: EGS
EG Solutions Annual Report 2015 Front Section Proof 6.indd   4 16/04/2015   17:08:40 23891.04  16 April 2015 5:03 PM Proof 6
Core functionality within the eg operational 
intelligence
®
 software suite was designed 
to address these requirements:
• Multi-channel transaction capture 
to provide a single view of all work 
regardless of channel.
• Real-time, multi-level, multi-dimensional 
operational intelligence for customer 
operations and customer experience 
management.
• Efficient allocation of work to an 
increasingly disparate, mobile workforce 
wherever it is in the world, together with 
the means to automatically evaluate 
their performance.
We are therefore well placed to support 
both the digital and omni-channel 
requirements of our customers; enabling 
them to deliver consistent service and 
optimise performance across all channels 
regardless of where their workforce is 
and, at the same time, providing true 
insight into the end-to-end customer 
journey. 
Customer Base Growth
As a result of the increased need for 
optimisation tools for complex processing 
areas, demand from new and existing 
customers has been strong. 
During the period a total of ten significant 
contract wins were secured, further 
penetrating our key global market sectors. 
The Group increased its footprint in 
existing market verticals such as financial 
services, but also successfully developed 
business in new verticals. Major new 
contracts announced during the period 
include:
• In February 2014, a contract win with 
an international telecoms provider
• In March 2014, a contract win with 
another new utility customer
• In April 2014, a contract win from 
a global bank (existing client) worth 
approximately $1.06m
• In August 2014, a contract win with a 
major third party outsourcing company 
(existing client) expected to be worth in 
excess of £1.20m
• In January 2015, a contract win within 
Local Government worth at least 
£1.60m over four years.
These contracts also led to a 20% 
increase in the user base of our software, 
to over 100,000 licences sold in the UK 
and globally. 
Product Development
We have continued to invest in our 
market leading software to ensure we can 
continue to meet customer requirements 
“out of the box”. This has always been 
a unique selling point for our product, 
enabling our customers to quickly realise 
benefits and achieve guaranteed return 
on investment. 
The latest version of the eg operational 
intelligence
®
 software suite was launched 
in London on 25 March 2014. This 
version provides further enhancements 
to our core products as well as the 
platform for delivery of eg mobile. Our 
mobile product will allow management 
teams to monitor the operational health 
of their back office operations in real-
time from mobile devices using a rich 
dashboard and alerting app. This will 
provide customer operations teams with 
early visibility into potential service issues 
as well as better engage the workforce in 
achieving the organisations objectives.
We have also developed major 
enhancements to our strategic planning 
and forecasting module during FY2015. 
These include improved modelling 
features enabling planners to model 
resource forecasts based on complex 
business scenarios and continuously 
monitor progress against forecasts or 
contractual obligations, such as Service 
Level Agreements, in real-time. 
eg mobile and our new Strategic Planning 
and Forecasting product will be released 
shortly.
People
In March 2014 Duncan McIntyre agreed 
to join our Board as Non-Executive 
Chairman. His experience of building 
successful international businesses 
quickly made a positive impact on 
the Group. He has built a new Board, 
improved our communications within 
the City, led our financing activities and 
re-established a culture of success 
and support. The eg Board now 
consists of individuals with substantial 
experience of growing listed and private 
companies, as well as providing high 
levels of governance. The Group has 
benefited from their deep understanding 
of technology markets, strong City 
reputations and passion for developing 
effective management teams. 
Our new management structure includes 
a number of senior hires in key areas of 
the business and good progress is being 
made to build a successful team to deliver 
our strategy. Over the coming year we will 
continue to invest further to ensure that 
business momentum is maintained and 
customer satisfaction continues. 
In October 2014 Paul Hoban advised us 
of his intention to resign as Group Chief 
Financial Officer. Paul will leave us in 
April 2015 having built a strong financial 
reporting function within the Group 
and we wish him well with his future 
endeavours. Jonathan Kay joined us in 
December 2014 to replace Paul and work 
alongside me to develop our team to drive 
profitable growth. 
The whole eg team worked extremely 
hard during the year to deliver excellent 
results for our customers throughout the 
world. I would like to thank them for their 
contribution and continuing commitment.
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer 
24 March 2015
05
Strategic Report www.egsplc.com
EG Solutions Annual Report 2015 Front Section Proof 6.indd   5 16/04/2015   17:08:40
