 Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
4
I am pleased to present my 
inaugural Chairman’s Statement 
for Eland’s 2015 Annual Report. 
It has been another challenging 
year for the sector but we have 
continued to produce from and 
develop our high quality asset 
base in the Niger Delta.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The oil price continued to fall last year and the industry 
remains under intense pressure, yet we increased oil 
production in 2015 to a record level from our flagship 
asset OML 40 in the Niger Delta. I continue to believe 
that we have the understanding and expertise within  
Eland to deliver continued growth and positive returns 
for shareholders. 
Last year proved difficult for the oil and gas industry 
globally, as oil prices fell to levels not seen in a 
decade. By the end of 2015 Brent was trading at $37 
per barrel compared to $57 per barrel at the start 
of the year. Strong supply from US shale oil, and 
continued resilience on the part of OPEC in maintaining 
production levels were exacerbated by a reduction in 
global oil demand, largely driven by a slowing Chinese 
economy. This resulted in growing levels of oil stocks 
globally, with the IEA claiming that OECD stocks 
reached over 3 billion barrels by the end of 2015, the 
highest ever. Unsurprisingly this resulted in a global 
slowdown in exploration and development activity. The 
Nigerian oil industry has not been immune to these 
challenging conditions. As the oil industry represents 
the most important sector in the country, 2015 saw a 
sharp slowdown in economic growth and a weakening 
of the Nigerian currency, the naira. 
Within the context of these largely negative conditions 
I believe that Eland performed commendably. The year 
will be remembered as the one when the Company 
really started to deliver as a producer, with total gross 
liftings from OML 40 almost trebling compared to 2014. 
A workover on the Opuama field in November saw 
gross production increase by 50% to 4,400 barrels of 
oil per day, a record high for the Company. This was 
accompanied by an impressive 84% uptime for the 
field during the year. Since year-end the Company has 
enjoyed further success, following a workover on the 
Opuama-3 well with the well testing at rates in excess 
of 10,500 bopd indicating the potential to double year 
end daily production. I believe that this is testament to 
the amount of technical work that has been completed 
in conjunction with our partner on OML 40 and that 
this bodes well for the future with further workover 
opportunities under evaluation.
We also continued to progress our Gbetiokun  
discovery on OML40 and are currently evaluating the 
re-entry, completion and production of the Gbetiokun-1 
well, which has the potential to again double daily 
production. This is planned for later in 2016. During 
the year we also continued to work on the Ubima field 
in OML 17 with a view to capitalising on this highly 
accretive asset, with a well re-entry planned later in 
the year. Again this has the potential to substantially 
increase production whilst appraising further upside in 
the field.
In the context of the proposed work program the 
Company is acutely conscious of the current oil price 
environment and the necessity to manage its resources 
and meet challenges such as the recent shut-down of 
the Forcados Terminal which has adversely affected 
our H1 2016 production, and has instituted a robust cost 
cutting program which will continue to be implemented 
while not prejudicing its ability to execute the value 
enhancing program.
In April 2016, Eland successfully completed an equity 
placing to raise funds of $18.5 million at a price of 
34 pence per share. Initially the company set out 
to raise $15 million but such was the demand from 
Russell Harvey
Chairman Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other information
Our Business Model
Expertise
Experienced management 
team with over 40 years of 
in-country experience
+ 
Track record
A team with a history of 
success in identifying and 
developing oil and gas assets
+
Local 
footprint
Operational senior 
management based in Nigeria 
with strong relationships and 
local knowledge
+
High quality 
assets
Significant development 
and exploration upside 
on OML 40 and OML 17 as 
well as attractive growth 
opportunities in Nigeria
 
Maximised 
production
Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
5
investors, the decision was taken to increase the size of the raise. 
It is very encouraging to find such support from existing and new 
institutional investors. The funds will be used to accelerate the first 
phase development of Gbetiokun, as well as to bring forward additional 
production from within the Company’s asset base. 
In 2015 the Group sold 341,000 bbls of crude oil, generating revenue  
of $18.1 million for the year as compared to $11.7 million for 2014. As a 
result of this higher production and reductions in both operating and 
administrative expenses, the Group’s adjusted EBITDA has improved 
from a loss of $19.5 million in 2014 to a loss of $2.5 million in 2015  
(see page 20). 
During 2015 the Group also drew down $15m from its reserves based 
loan from Standard Chartered Bank with cash at the year-end of  
$8.5 million.
At the end of 2015 there were a number of changes to the board as 
part of a periodic refreshment. Both Harry Wilson and Bob Lambert 
retired after a more than three years involvement and we wish them 
well and thank them for their contribution during the formative years 
of the company. In addition to my assuming the role of Non Executive 
Chairman, Gregory Stoupnitzky was appointed as Non Executive 
Director bringing with him a wealth of market and banking experience, 
additive to the skill set on the board.
More recently in May 2016 Olivier Serra was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer designate. He will take over as Chief Financial Officer from Louis 
Castro who retires from this role after the publication of this report.
Eland has adjusted to the current oil price and the planned 2016 work 
program provides a step change in production volumes through 
work-overs and re-entries which will minimise capital expenditure 
whilst driving the company forward to develop the potential of OML 
40, something that is not in question. I look forward to reporting the 
progress that I am confident the company can make during 2016.
Russell Harvey 
Chairman 
27 May 2016
“The year will likely be remembered as 
the one when the Company really started 
to deliver as a producer, with total gross 
liftings from OML 40 almost trebling 
compared to 2014.” 
