 Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3
Governance Notice of meeting Strategic report Financial statements
Chief Executive’s Statement
Julian Wassell
As anticipated, our overall revenue was 
impacted following the acquisition of a 
competitor software business during 2014 
by one of our major customers who then 
transferred to their software product. As a 
result, turnover for the year under review 
was 6% down at £5.16 million compared 
with £5.51 million last year. Underlying revenue 
was broadly comparable with 2014 and 
revenue in the second half of 2015 was 
5% higher than the first half. 
We were able to offset a substantial 
proportion of the anticipated reduction 
in revenue through targeted cost savings 
in both property and personnel costs. 
These annualised cost savings amounted 
to approximately £200,000 after taking into 
account the cost of strengthening our new 
business sales team. Overall our adjusted 
operating profit for the year was £459,000 
compared with £553,000.
Last year we reported that we had for 
the first time seen the proportion of our 
revenues delivered via our hosting centre 
exceed 50%. This year we were delighted to 
reach the landmark of 200 hosted customers 
(just under two thirds of our customers by 
number), up from 184 a year earlier, reinforcing 
our long-term strategy of growing the 
hosting/cloud side of our business, further 
strengthening our recurring revenues 
and therefore visibility.
Our increased investment in product R&D 
has meant that we have had a number of 
exciting product releases during the year 
including our Quantum e-business solution 
and Vecta 8. These are described more 
fully below.
As previously noted, we have continued to 
see a gradual but steady move away from 
upfront revenues towards stronger ongoing 
subscription revenues, particularly with Vecta, 
as adoption of the Cloud computing model 
continues. Whilst the impact of this in any 
single year so far has been modest, the trend 
continues. This trend has an impact on both 
the profile of our reported revenues and on 
our cash balances, a significant proportion 
of which result from upfront billings.
We noted last year that we expected a 
number of combined factors to put pressure 
on our revenues and this remains the case. 
Whilst we are confident that Quantum VS 
is an excellent solution for the significant 
majority of users of our legacy applications, 
the process of migrating our existing 
customers to Quantum VS will inevitably 
lead to higher levels of customer “churn” 
than we have historically seen. As a result, 
we strengthened our new business sales 
team during 2015 in addition to increasing 
investment in our product portfolio. 
I am pleased to note that we have continued 
to sign new orders for both Quantum 
and Vecta.
With keen price competition throughout 
our markets, it remains important that we 
continue to manage our overall cost 
base carefully.
Business model
Our business model revolves around 
supplying our software products under 
long-term contracts of up to five years initial 
duration. These can be either in the form of 
traditional on-site licencing arrangements or 
cloud-based, hosted service level agreements. 
During the year under review contracted 
recurring revenues arising from these 
agreements represented 79% of our total 
revenues, giving us a strong base of 
business on which to build.
The remainder of our revenues arise 
from initial software licence fees, hosting 
joining fees and the provision of a range of 
implementation, training and consultancy 
services. We also supply a small amount 
of computer hardware and maintenance 
(which is low margin) to certain customers.
Our business model is strong and provides 
us with excellent visibility of revenues, which 
assists us to actively manage our cost base 
and monitor working capital carefully.
Strategy
Our aim is to deliver software solutions that 
offer clear business benefits, assisting our 
customers to generate sales growth or to 
create efficiencies and drive down costs in 
their business. Our principal products, Vecta 
and Quantum VS respectively, address these 
aims. These products are complementary 
with many of our customers using both.
Quantum VS is an ERP application addressing 
the requirements of a number of verticals 
within the distribution sector. These include 
builders and timber merchants, suppliers 
of fixings and fastenings, industrial and 
security products, electrical wholesalers 
and food distributors.
Our strategy for Quantum remains to develop 
a single software application which provides 
both a clear upgrade path for our existing 
customers of our legacy application products 
(Merchant, Charisma, Esprit and The Business 
Programme) together with an opportunity 
to exploit new business opportunities 
in our target markets.
As an ERP solution, Quantum VS provides 
the core of our customers’ business and as 
such we enjoy long relationships with our 
customers. Sales cycles, in common with 
other suppliers of similar applications, 
can be over 12 months.
Summary
•  Turnover for the year under review 
was 6% down at £5.16 million compared 
with £5.51 million last year. Revenue was 
impacted following the acquisition of a 
competitor software business during 2014 
by one of our major customers
•  Annualised cost savings amounted to 
approximately £200,000 after taking into 
account the cost of strengthening our 
new business sales team
•  Overall our adjusted operating profit 
for the year was £459,000 compared 
with £553,000
•  Operating cash flows were very strong 
during the year
Our increased investment 
in product R&D has 
meant that we have had a 
number of exciting 
product releases during 
the year including our 
Quantum e-business 
solution and Vecta 8. Electronic Data Processing PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 4
“ Our aim is to deliver software solutions that offer clear 
business benefits, assisting our customers to generate 
sales growth or to create efficiencies and drive down 
costs in their business. ”
Strategy continued
Vecta is an extremely powerful CRM and 
Business Intelligence (BI) product which 
assists businesses to drive growth. It is 
positioned between the major CRM 
products, which typically do not deliver 
sales analysis, and traditional BI tools.
Vecta has much shorter sales cycles and 
implementation times, sometimes measured 
in a matter of weeks, compared with those 
experienced with Quantum VS which can 
exceed 12 months.
Our strategy over recent years has been 
to increase the number of customers who 
receive their software through the Cloud 
via our hosting centre in Milton Keynes, 
thereby strengthening our relationships 
with our customers.
Products
Quantum VS
During the year our strengthened 
development team has remained focussed on 
balancing the need to work with our existing 
customers to continue their migration from 
our legacy software products to Quantum VS, 
whilst providing new functionality to support 
our push for new business.
As planned, we launched the first release 
of our new document scanning and archiving 
module for Quantum VS earlier in the year.
We have also delivered a completely new 
e-business solution, “Quantum e-business” . 
This new product allows us to offer a single 
product to our customers offering a complete 
range of on-line capabilities from a simple 
website, through on-line catalogue access, 
to a sophisticated e–business solution fully 
integrated into their back-office application. 
Initial customer reactions have been 
extremely positive.
Vecta
A major new update, Vecta 8, was released 
during the year. This provides users with a 
completely new and improved look and feel. 
It also features a fully responsive design 
enabling Vecta to be even more easily 
deployed across the full range of desktop 
and mobile devices. 
This latest version has been extremely 
well received by customers and prospects. 
Credit must go to our development team 
for this and also for the fact that Vecta won 
“SaaS solution of the year” at the industry 
renowned European IT & Software Excellence 
Awards. This was in addition to the two 
awards we won last year.
Financial review
Revenue for the year was £5.16 million 
compared with £5.51 million last year. 
Second half revenues were up on the first 
half by £120,000 or 5%. The level of recurring 
revenues was maintained at 79% of total 
revenues (2014: 80%).
We incurred one-off costs amounting 
to £76,000 during the year in relation 
to property and personnel cost savings. 
Adjusted operating profit for the year was 
£459,000 compared with £553,000 last year, 
giving an operating margin of 8.9% compared 
with 10.0%.
We use adjusted operating profit to 
monitor the performance of the business 
on a day-to-day basis. It excludes interest 
receivable, any gains and losses on property 
transactions, one-off restructuring costs and 
a number of non-cash items which arise 
under IFRS (that is defined benefit pension 
scheme charges and the capitalisation and 
amortisation of development costs). A full 
reconciliation is provided in note 3 
to the accounts.
Profit before tax on a statutory basis was 
£347 ,000 compared to £401,000 last year. 
In broad terms the difference represents 
the net effect in the current year of a profit 
on disposal of property of £117 ,000 and a 
provision of £189,000 against the carrying 
value of our sole remaining surplus freehold 
property. Excluding the effect of these 
property items, statutory pre-tax profit 
increased to £419,000 compared with 
£401,000 last year.
Operating cash flows were very strong 
during the year at £966,000 (2014: £240,000). 
After dividends of £504,000, capital expenditure 
of £323,000, and the proceeds from the 
disposal of fixed assets of £424,000, our 
net cash balances increased by £563,000 
to £5.55 million at 30 September 2015. 
We have again increased our R&D expenditure 
as we continue to enhance our software 
products. In the year to 30 September 2015 this 
amounted to £1,067 ,000, up from £981,000. 
Of this £139,000 (2014: £79,000) was capitalised 
as required by IAS 38. Amortisation of previously 
capitalised R&D expenditure amounted to 
£66,000 (2014: £36,000). Therefore the R&D 
charge in the income statement has increased 
to £994,000 from £938,000 last year.
The tax charge for the year of £43,000 
(2014: £3,000 credit) produces an effective 
tax rate of 12%. This is lower than the current 
rate of UK corporation tax due to additional tax 
relief on qualifying Research and Development 
expenditure and the fact that no tax was 
payable on the freehold property sale.
Earnings per share was 2.41p or 2.39p on 
a fully diluted basis (2014: 3.21p and 3.16p).
Pension
The liability associated with the Group’s 
defined benefit pension scheme has increased 
this year, from £1 .58 million net of deferred 
tax to £1 .81 million. Of the £232,000 increase, 
£170,000 has been written off directly through 
reserves as an actuarial loss; this relates 
primarily to a further weakening of the 
discount rate assumption, driven by the 
continuation of the fall in corporate bond 
yields seen in recent years. The remaining 
£62,000 has been charged in the income 
statement. The scheme was closed to 
future accrual in 2014 and consequently 
there was no current service cost in 2015.
Valuing the scheme under the accounting 
rules prescribed by IAS19, net assets since 
2009 have been reduced by £2.0 million. 
A significant factor in the scale of this write 
off has been the steady fall in corporate 
bond yields since 2009, reflecting the low 
interest rate environment that has prevailed 
over that period. This has resulted in the 
discount rate assumption falling steadily 
over time, from 5.7% in 2009 to 3.7% in 
2015. It should be noted that a subsequent 
increase in interest rates and recovery in 
corporate bond yields would, all other things 
being equal, lead to an improvement in 
the IAS19 position of the scheme.
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Julian Wassell
