 Double digit revenue growth was achieved 
overall although this was held back by the 
slower than expected rate of contract wins. 
The management team has placed signiﬁcant 
focus on operational improvements in 
EMIS Health Secondary Care which is 
now beginning to show results.
A major contract win in EMIS Health 
Community Pharmacy is expected to 
signiﬁcantly increase market share over 
the next 18 months, making the Group 
the largest software and services provider 
in the community pharmacy dispensary 
management market. EMIS Health Specialist 
Care remains the leading provider of diabetic 
eye screening software and other 
ophthalmology solutions.
Further details on all our achievements 
in 2015 are provided in the CEO Q&A 
on page 6 and the operational review 
starting on page 20.
Corporate governance
Corporate governance provides the 
framework that underpins everything 
we do. Given the size and stature of the 
business we aim to implement the highest 
level of governance standards and ensure 
that we are governed and managed with 
transparency, within a culture that upholds 
the importance of integrity and accountability.
Our detailed corporate governance report 
starts on page 36. Information on how we 
manage and mitigate risk is included on 
pages 16 and 17. 
Dividend
In line with our progressive dividend policy, 
the Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend 
of 10.6p per share, which, together with the 
interim dividend of 10.6p, provides a total 
dividend for the year of 21.2p per share. 
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 
AGM on 26 April 2016, the ﬁnal dividend will 
be paid on 29 April 2016 to shareholders on 
the register on 1 April 2016.
Our People
The Group employs professional, highly 
skilled and dedicated employees who are 
committed to the vision and values of the 
Group. We continue to invest in our people 
and throughout the year have improved 
team integration across the Group, internal 
communications and reviewed our approach 
to career development. The outstanding 
contribution from our employees and 
their commitment to living our values in 
all that they do has ensured that the Group 
continues to move forward successfully. 
They ensure that we are able to deliver our 
strategy of providing patient-centred care 
through our unique portfolio of connected 
products and services.
Mike O’Leary
Chairman
15 March 2016
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present EMIS Group’s 
2015 annual report which sets out our 
performance over the year. 
EMIS Group has reported results in line 
with expectations with growth derived 
both organically and through businesses 
acquired in 2014 and 2015. Our EMIS 
Health Primary Care business maintained 
its market leading position and Child 
Community & Mental Health had another 
good year of progress. 
EMIS Group helps clinicians share 
vital information, facilitating better, 
more efficient healthcare.
Chairman’s statement
the next 18 months, making the Grou
the largest software and services pr
in the community pharmacy dispens
management market. EMIS Health Spe
Care remains the leading provider of d
eye screening software and other 
ophthalmology solutions.
Further details on all our achieveme
in 2015 are provided in the CEO Q&A
on page 6 and the operational review
starting on page 20.
its market leading position and Child 
Community & Mental Health had another 
good year of progress. 
Strategic report
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
4 Corporate governance P36
EMIS Group values
Camden GPs slash A&E workload
GPs are slashing the A&E workload at one of London’s busiest 
hospitals thanks to joined-up technology that is enabling 
them to send home more than 26,000 patients a year.
An urgent care centre (UCC) at the Royal Free Hospital’s A&E 
department is using integrated clinical IT system EMIS Web® 
to carry out rapid assessments on 50% of the 71,818 patients 
who present annually for emergency care between 10am-10pm. 
Aided by vital information from the GP record, they are now 
able to discharge half of these patients at the front door with 
basic health advice. 40% of the remainder are directed to their 
own doctor, or a GP-staffed UCC for further investigation 
and treatment. Only 10% of assessed patients are sent 
on to the main emergency department.
The UCC is run by Haverstock Healthcare, a federation of 
all 37 GP practices in Camden, representing over 255,000 
registered patients. The federation believes that by other 
clinicians treating over 40% of patients attending the Royal 
Free Hospital’s A&E, emergency doctors and nurses can 
focus their efforts on the most unwell patients, reducing 
waiting times and improving the overall quality of care.
Haverstock Healthcare’s medical director Dr Mike Smith said: 
“All of the GP practices in Camden use EMIS Web®, and we 
also have it in A&E. This means that when patients arrive at the 
door, we are able to check their medical history with their 
consent, and make fully informed clinical decisions. Without 
their notes, there is a risk of starting patients on a care 
journey that is not needed. For example, we are ordering 
fewer x-rays and blood tests than our emergency colleagues 
at other hospitals. EMIS Web helps make our job less 
time-consuming and arduous, and enables us to work 
more effectively.
“When patients arrive at the door, we are able to check their 
medical history with their consent, and make fully informed 
clinical decisions.”
“The majority of patients we see do not get sent back to their 
own GP. We send them home with written information on 
self-care, or to a pharmacist. The website Patient.info is a 
signiﬁcant resource, as it empowers patients by providing 
them with information about their condition and how to 
manage it at home. We keep a stock of its leaﬂets printed 
out and ready.”
Dr Smith said the next step in joined-up care was to enable 
EMIS Web to send an e-discharge letter to patients’ own 
GPs, providing them with timely and accurate information 
about their patients visit to A&E.
Matt Murphy, EMIS Health managing director for primary 
care and commissioning said: “We work hand in hand with 
clinicians to develop the technology that helps them to offer 
new models of care like this. We are proud to see it helping 
Camden GPs to deliver tangible improvements in patient care.”
We are caring 
about patients, our customers 
and one another
We are innovative 
with game-changing, entrepreneurial 
and pace-setting approach
We are joined up 
in our way of working, products 
and services
We are accountable 
purposeful, trustworthy and 
delivering what we promise
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
5
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
