 Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015
2
STRATEGIC REPORT – CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Chairman’s statement
‘ The Group has delivered  
another period of strong  
profit and earnings per  
share growth’
It has been an important year in the Group’s 
development as we delivered a record 
profit, developed the organic investments 
made in 2014, invested in new staff across 
our brands and issued new equity to fund 
the purchase of a high quality business 
operating in the USA healthcare sector, 
which also brought new investors onto  
the shareholder register.
The Group again delivered strong growth in profit and 
earnings per share in 2015, despite the continued impact  
of foreign exchange. This currency issue and our strategy of 
reducing our exposure to low margin, high volume business 
in the Technical & Industrial sector meant Group revenue 
remained broadly flat at £187.3m (2014: £187.9m). However, 
net fee income grew 10% to £49.2m (2014: £44.6m) as 
permanent recruitment sales were up 28% year on year.  
Net fee income from temporary recruitment was down 1.5%, 
due to a 3.5% reduction in sales, partially offset by improved 
margins of 16.7% (2014: 16.3%). Permanent sales, including 
the Offshore Recruitment Services (‘ORS’) business, now 
account for 45% of net fee income (2014: 38%).
Operating profit grew by 19% to £7.6m (2014: £6.4m), with 
costs being carefully managed to help the conversion ratio 
improve to 16.3% (2014: 14.7%). Interest costs were level 
with the prior year, resulting in profit before tax increasing 
20% to £7.1m. On an adjusted basis, excluding amortisation, 
exceptional items and profit or loss on disposal of 
businesses, operating profit of £8.0m was up 21%  
on prior year and profit before tax was £7.5m, up 23%.
Diluted earnings per share grew by 24% to 9.3p in line 
with our vision to deliver sustainable growth in earnings 
per share. On an adjusted basis it grew by 24% to 9.9p, 
increasing for the fourth year in a row.
ADJUSTED PROFIT 
BEFORE TAX
£7.5m  
(2014: £6.1m)
23%
Trading summary 
£’m 2015 2014 % change
% change 
constant 
currency**
Revenue 187.3 187.9 (0.3%) 3%
Net fee income 49.2 44.6 10% 16%
Operating profit 7.6 6.4 19% 29%
Profit before tax 7.1 5.9 20% 30%
Adjusted operating profit* 8.0 6.6 21% 30%
Adjusted profit before tax* 7.5 6.1 23% 44%
*  The adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax figures exclude exceptional items, 
profit or loss on disposal of businesses and intangible amortisation.
**  The like-for-like currency movement is calculated by translating the 2014 results at the 2015 
exchange rates. Empresaria Group plc Annual Report 2015  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3
We have made further progress in reducing our debt whilst 
also continuing to invest in the business. During the year 
the Group generated £7.6m of cash from operations which 
helped reduce our net debt from £9.8m to £7.3m. This 
includes the new term loan taken out in October to help fund 
the purchase of Pharmaceutical Strategies in the USA. This 
means we have achieved our target of a ‘debt to debtors’ 
ratio of no more than 25%, with the ratio dropping to 23% 
this year. This is a great achievement and demonstrates the 
improving financial strength of the Group.
INVESTMENTS
Underpinning our strategy is our focus on investing in our 
existing brands, to help develop them to build long-term 
sustainable profit streams. Complementing this, we evaluate 
external investment opportunities to accelerate the growth 
of the Group and increase our presence in sectors where we 
feel we are under-represented.
In line with our strategy, in October we purchased 
Pharmaceutical Strategies (PS), a healthcare staffing firm 
operating from Boston and servicing clients throughout 
the USA. PS specialises in providing qualified pharmacists 
and nurses to the healthcare sector, in particular to the 
Pharmacy Benefit Management companies. This sector is 
undergoing high growth rates due to the implementation of 
the Affordable Care Act and we see good prospects for the 
business over the medium-term. This investment also takes 
the Group into a new geography and provides a base for 
other brands to use if they want to enter the USA market. 
We have been pleased at how quickly it has integrated  
into the Group.
PEOPLE
The Group has a stable and experienced Board which is 
working hard to deliver growth, reduce risk and improve  
our long-term financial performance, which in turn leads  
to higher shareholder returns.
A key part of our business model is management equity, 
aligning key management and shareholder interests. This 
approach enables Empresaria to attract and retain the  
best people. At the end of the year we had 42 management 
shareholders, owning shares in different Group companies. 
We expect to increase this number during 2016.
The success of the Group is testament to the hard work and 
commitment of our staff and the Board would like to thank 
every individual for their contribution to the business. I have 
visited a number of our brands over the last year and have 
been impressed by the dedication and hard work I have  
seen from our staff.
GOVERNANCE
We have the right system of Governance in place to deliver on 
our vision and ensure there is a sustainable profitable future.
The Group adopts high standards of corporate governance 
which we believe is a core requirement for a successful 
business operating a decentralised model across different 
regions and brands. There is a strong culture of financial 
control in the Group, with clear policies covering corporate 
conduct and governance. The Board develops the Group’s 
corporate governance arrangements with reference to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
The values and culture of the Group, which is based on 
shared ownership and true operational autonomy for brand 
managers, are key to our long-term growth prospects. As 
the Group continues to grow and operate in more countries 
the Board pays particular attention to maintaining this strong 
operating philosophy and it is reinforced during our leader’s 
conference, last held in 2015 in Oman.
DIVIDEND
The Board has reviewed the dividend in the light of the 
positive trading result, stronger balance sheet and reduction 
in total debt. The Board intends to follow a progressive 
dividend policy in line with trading performance and for the 
year ending 31 December 2015 the Board has proposed a 
final dividend of 1.0p per share (2014: 0.7p per share) which, 
if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, 
will be paid on 31 May 2016 to shareholders on the register 
on 6 May 2016.
OUTLOOK
The Group has delivered another period of strong profit 
and earnings per share growth, driven by our focused 
growth strategy. We are confident that 2016 will be another 
year of growth with the Group benefiting from both the 
investments made in its existing brands and the purchase of 
Pharmaceutical Strategies.
Despite wider market uncertainties at the start of the year we 
see exciting opportunities to develop our network. We are 
committed to growing the business to drive increased profits 
and enhanced shareholder value. We look forward to the 
year ahead with confidence.
Anthony Martin
Chairman
1 March 2016
