 24341 .04    7 December 2015 5:10 PM    Proof 7
Heading One
Maintaining growth 
momentum
We are pleased to report our full 
year results for the year ended 30 
September 2015, during which period 
we have delivered EBITDA before 
exceptional items of £296 million, 
down £6 million on the comparative 
period primarily as a result of 
planned asset disposals. Profit before 
taxation, excluding exceptional 
items, increased by £1 million to 
£122 million as lower interest costs, 
resulting from debt reduction, have 
offset the decline in EBITDA. With a 
lower effective tax rate the increased 
profits before taxation deliver adjusted 
earnings per share, before exceptional 
items, of 19.4p, an increase of 2.1% 
on the previous year. 
The earnings growth momentum 
has been delivered through an 
improvement in like-for-like net 
income achieved from our leased, 
tenanted and free-of-tie estate. We 
have grown our like-for-like net income 
in every quarter of the year with the 
full year growing by 0.8%. We are 
pleased with this outcome particularly 
as the previous year, which included 
the FIFA World Cup, represented a 
strong comparative period. As with 
last year, all geographies across our 
estate reported year-on-year stability 
of income, but it was the South 
where the growth was once again 
most significant. Trading in the 661 
pubs based in the Greater London 
region remained particularly strong 
with like-for-like net income up by 
3.1%. We have a strong core of our 
estate trading very well with the 
top 90% (4,532 pubs), in terms of 
income earned, showing like-for-like 
net income growth of 2.6% on the 
previous year.
Like-for-like net income growth has 
been derived from increased rental 
income and growth in the net income 
from the sale of beer and other 
products to our publicans. The strong 
rental income performance is driven 
by returns from our capital investment 
supplemented by reductions in 
the level of business failures and a 
return to rental increases achieved 
at rent reviews, particularly in the 
South, which provide reassurance 
with regard to the stabilisation of 
trading for us and our publicans. The 
growth in net income from the sale 
of beer and other products reflects 
a “wet-led” business revival fuelled 
by the provision of deeper discounts 
to our publicans complemented by 
the availability of the widest range 
of product choice in the market, 
including craft and local beers. 
Simon Townsend 
Chief Executive Officer
We have grown our like-for-like 
net income in every quarter 
of the year with the full year 
growing by 0.8%
Chief Executive’s Review
Supporting our publicans
We have seen an improvement in 
consumer confidence and the broader 
economic environment through the 
year which has provided a more 
stable backdrop for our publicans 
and this has been enhanced by the 
successful implementation of our 
many initiatives aimed at enhancing 
publican profitability. The continued 
provision of discounted services such 
as WiFi, sports TV packages and food 
offerings, combined with training 
programmes and product marketing 
services, are aimed at assisting 
publicans to grow sales and reduce 
costs.
We also continue to offer direct 
financial assistance where it is 
deemed appropriate, to aid publicans 
to sustain their businesses through 
“In May of this year 
we announced 
our new strategy 
for the business, 
which enables 
us to unlock the 
embedded value 
in every one of  
our assets”
Simon T ownsend
12
Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.indd   12 07/12/2015   17:24:38 24341 .04    7 December 2015 5:10 PM    Proof 7
more difficult trading periods, and 
have spent £6 million in the year 
(2014: £7 million) on such assistance. 
As a consequence of the successful 
application of this support framework 
we have further reduced the level 
of business failures, by 18%, during 
the year compared to the previous 
year. We actively monitor our estate 
for the signs of potential business 
failure and proactively manage the 
process of publican change when it is 
unavoidable. Approximately 8% (2014: 
9%) of the estate has seen a change 
of publican due to failure during the 
financial year but more significantly 
only 2% of the estate (2014: 3%) has 
seen a change due to an unplanned 
failure rather than a managed 
transition. 
During the next year we will move 
into a new regulatory environment 
with the expected introduction of 
the Market Rent Only (MRO) option. 
While this is likely to present some 
challenges to the stability of the tied 
estate it may also offer opportunities 
for us to re-evaluate the optimal use 
of each asset and its retail proposition 
to enhance shareholder value in 
accordance with our strategic plans. 
Optimising returns  
from the estate
Our capital re-investment strategy 
is an important contributor to the 
delivery of like-for-like net income 
growth. We actively identify 
opportunities to invest in our estate, 
often alongside our publicans, in 
order to enhance returns from our 
assets by providing local communities 
and consumers with well invested, 
attractive retail offerings. During the 
year we re-invested £69 million (2014: 
£66 million) in our estate with 44% 
(2014: 41%) directed toward income 
enhancing opportunities. We target 
Return on Investment (ROI) in excess 
of 15% on our growth oriented capital 
expenditure and have achieved an 
average ROI of 19% on such schemes 
completed in the last 12 months. 
We are using market analysis to 
identify the optimum use of our 
assets and to identify the priorities for 
capital investment. The segmentation 
analysis applies an understanding of 
demand and supply characteristics 
of the local market for every 
property to identify the optimum 
retail proposition for the property 
and the most appropriate operating 
model to deliver that proposition. The 
segmentation analysis is increasingly 
used to identify assets that are 
under-performing and which have 
challenging local market conditions 
such that disposal becomes the 
optimum outcome so that cash can 
be realised and re-invested in the 
retained estate. During the year we 
disposed of 260 (2014: 230) assets 
realising £75 million (2014: £73 
million) of net proceeds. 
Enhancing  
shareholder value
In May of this year we announced 
our new strategy for the business, 
which enables us to unlock the 
embedded value in every one of 
our assets and ensures that we are 
ready to respond to the potential 
implications of impending regulatory 
changes. The strategy aims to bring 
about an evolution of our business 
model, utilising consumer insight, to 
develop a plan for every pub in order 
to maximise value for shareholders. 
We are pleased with the progress we 
have made with the implementation 
of this strategic plan.
Implementation of our new strategy 
will further strengthen the highly cash 
generative nature of our business. 
In the current year we delivered 
£265 million (2014: £278 million) of 
cash flow from operating activities 
which, after net interest costs, yields 
£108 million (2014: £111 million) of 
free cash flow. Our re-investment 
strategy of funding capital investment 
requirements broadly through the 
disposal of under-performing assets 
leaves free cash flow available for 
allocation. 
We operate a disciplined approach to 
the allocation of this free cash flow. 
Currently the most appropriate use 
of our free cash flow is to meet our 
debt repayment obligations, primarily 
through the scheduled amortisation of 
the Unique securitisation notes.
Outlook
Trading in the first six weeks of the 
new financial year has been in line 
with our expectations and continues 
to maintain the growth momentum 
of last year. We aim to deliver positive 
like-for-like net income in our leased, 
tenanted and free-of-tie estate for the 
full financial year. 
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 30 September 2015
13
www.enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Strategic Report Governance Accounts Shareholder Information
Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.indd   13 07/12/2015   17:24:41 24341 .04    7 December 2015 5:10 PM    Proof 7
Chief Executive’s Review
Regulatory 
During 2014, the then Government 
published its proposals, contained 
within the Small Business, Enterprise 
and Employment (SBEE) Bill, to 
introduce a Statutory Code of 
Practice, to be overseen by an 
independent Adjudicator, for all 
companies with over 500 pubs 
operating under tied leased and 
tenancy agreements in England 
and Wales. In November 2014, the 
proposals were amended to include 
a tenant’s right, under certain limited 
circumstances, to change the 
freely-negotiated commercial terms 
of their agreement to a new MRO 
contract. This MRO option enables 
some occupational tenants to elect 
to opt-out of the supply tie at certain 
points or after certain exceptional 
events during the term of their lease 
agreement and therefore occupy the 
premises on a standard commercial 
property lease, paying rent only. In 
the event that a tenant elected to 
invoke this option, whilst our income 
derived from the supply of tied drinks 
products would be partially offset by 
increases in rent, it is possible that 
our total income from that property 
would be adversely affected.
The SBEE Bill received Royal 
Assent on 26 March 2015 and 
has therefore become primary 
legislation. Further work is now 
taking place to finalise the detail 
of the new regulatory regime. The 
Government has advertised the 
position of the Adjudicator and it has 
launched the first tranche (of two) of 
its Consultation on the wording of 
the statutory Pubs Code, which is 
expected to come into effect on 26 
May 2016. We continue to participate 
in the process to develop the Pubs 
Code and associated guidance 
and shall respond formally to both 
tranches of the Consultation. 
We already operate effective policies 
and procedures in order to satisfy 
the existing industry code of practice 
framework and we have recently 
recruited additional compliance 
resource to ensure that we satisfy 
any additional requirements of the 
statutory Pubs Code.
While the unintended consequences 
of the SBEE Act will only become 
clear over time, we are prepared 
for the implementation of the 
legislation and its potential impact 
on our business. The impact will 
be phased over five years from the 
implementation of the Act, as MRO 
events are largely expected to arise 
through the cycle of five yearly rent 
reviews and renewals. 
Subject to the date of implementation 
of the MRO option, we anticipate 
that in our 2016 financial year we 
will have approximately 200 events 
that may potentially constitute an 
MRO event under the new regulatory 
regime and some 600 such events 
per year thereafter. We have already 
started to address outstanding rent 
reviews and renewal discussions 
with publicans and have introduced 
strategies to mitigate potential MRO 
risks, as this often enables us to 
make assets available for alternative 
operating models where our returns 
can be optimised. Resolution can take 
many forms and can include renewals 
where the MRO risk has not been 
removed but has most likely been 
delayed until the next trigger event, 
usually five years later. 
In our management of these 
potential MRO events it is clear 
that many publicans recognise the 
value of working with us as our 
partner and appreciate the support 
and operational simplicity the tied 
tenanted model offers. 
Additionally they recognise the 
increased risk to their business 
associated with MRO as their 
operational gearing is significantly 
higher and their working capital 
funding needs increased.
OPERATIONAL & 
STRATEGIC REVIEW 
Our pubs operate in a dynamic 
marketplace. We have set out to 
improve our capability in retailing, 
developing our understanding and 
usage of consumer and competitor 
insights to help us to identify the 
most appropriate retail proposition for 
each pub, to inform our subsequent 
investment decisions and to 
determine the appropriate operating 
model with which to optimise the 
pub’s performance and deliver greater 
shareholder value as a result.
Reinvigorated tied 
tenanted business
Against a background of fragile 
economic recovery, intense 
competition and legislative 
uncertainty, the performance of our 
leased and tenanted pub estate 
has been transformed over the last 
two years, demonstrating improved 
underlying stability and growth 
momentum. This has been achieved 
as a result of the quality of the 
publicans who occupy our pubs, 
and the hard work of our operational 
teams who help our publicans 
grow their sales and improve their 
profitability. We have continued 
to extend the range of goods and 
services available to our publicans, 
to help them reduce costs, and were 
pleased to commence a strategic 
partnership with the Booker Group 
to provide high quality food services 
to Enterprise publicans at extremely 
competitive prices.
14
Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.indd   14 07/12/2015   17:24:42 24341 .04    7 December 2015 5:10 PM    Proof 7
We have pursued a sales-led recovery, 
ensuring that we provide an extensive 
range of drinks, comprising over 
1,745 beers, lagers and ciders, and 
utilising discounts to ensure that 
the drinks offer in our pubs is both 
attractive and competitive. This has 
been demonstrably successful in 
our Beacon tenancies, and it has 
been encouraging to see this sales-
led recovery translated into like-for-
like growth in rental income during 
2015, a key indicator of stability 
which demonstrates the improving 
prospects and profitability of our 
pubs.
Our support and proactive 
intervention in businesses facing 
financial difficulty has also led to the 
further reduction in business failures, 
and to the majority of the changes 
of publican associated with those 
failures being managed in a planned 
and less costly manner. We disposed 
of 260 individual pubs during the year 
that, in the main, we did not believe 
could be sustainably profitable in the 
long-term, ensuring that we maintain 
our focus on those assets and 
businesses where we can generate 
optimal returns.
We have developed, with the support 
of LEK Consulting and Deloitte, a 
comprehensive segmentation model 
which allows our operational teams 
to assess the supply and demand 
dynamics of the local markets in 
which every one of our pubs is 
located. We have now started to 
utilise these consumer insights to 
inform recruitment and investment 
decisions, and to determine the 
optimal retail format in which each of 
our pubs could potentially operate.
The forthcoming secondary 
legislation, which is due to be 
implemented during 2016, has created 
uncertainty as to the returns that 
might be generated from some pubs 
on certain types of agreement, and is 
likely to lead to some pubs becoming 
unattractive to the Group. We are 
unlikely to invest in businesses on 
leases where our returns are unclear, 
and we will only grant long-term, tied 
leases in exceptional circumstances. 
We remain committed to the 
successful partnerships that can 
be created between the landlord 
company and tenant. Their success is 
clearly evident within the tied model 
operated by Enterprise, and we will 
be re-launching the Enterprise tied 
offer prior to the implementation of 
the new legislation. This will ensure 
that every Enterprise publican 
understands the merits of the tied 
agreement under which they occupy 
their pub, and can accurately and 
comprehensively compare their 
agreement with that which would be 
available to them if they were to elect 
to take up the MRO option.
Expanded  
managed business
Our strategy to build capability in 
the direct management of pubs is 
progressing well, and while it remains 
early days, we are pleased that 
the majority of the 35 pubs trading 
in this model are performing well 
and in line with our expectations. 
Greater operational control, complete 
transparency of all sales and cost 
lines and the use of consumer 
insights are giving us greater certainty 
over the returns we can generate 
from these pubs, together with the 
opportunity to leverage best practice 
across the wider Enterprise estate. 
We have demonstrated how such 
attributes can be applied to great 
effect in smaller, wet-led pubs in 
our Beacon estate over the last few 
years, and are now applying these 
disciplines more widely.
Furthermore, we now have the 
opportunity to occupy our properties 
at the expiry of a lease agreement, 
where previously we might have 
renewed such agreements regardless 
of whether the performance of 
the pub was being optimised. 
This approach enables us to take 
possession of underperforming assets 
and allows us to create additional 
value for our shareholders.
www.enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Strategic Report Governance Accounts Shareholder Information
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 30 September 2015
15
Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.indd   15 07/12/2015   17:24:44 24341 .04    7 December 2015 5:10 PM    Proof 7
Chief Executive’s Review
Recognising that the operation of 
managed houses requires different 
skills and capabilities from our 
historical leased and tenanted 
business, we have developed three 
managed house operating models 
that are designed to secure maximum 
operational control while mitigating 
the execution risks associated with 
such operating models.
Managed expert
We have developed a partnership 
“Expert” model whereby we can 
work with expert managed house 
operators in order to utilise their retail 
flair and capability in pubs with retail 
complexity and exceptional profit 
potential, thereby optimising the 
value of such sites. In this model, the 
operational resource and expertise are 
provided by our retail partners.
Our first variant of the Expert model 
is a partnership with Rupert Clevely, 
founder of Geronimo Inns and 
most recently with Youngs & Co, to 
operate premium, mixed food and 
drink outlets in central London in a 
subsidiary called Hippo Inns.
Hippo opened its first pub, The Signal 
in Forest Hill, on 8 October 2015. The 
pub is trading well, in line with our 
expectations, offering craft beers, 
ales, select wines and cocktails 
alongside high quality, well-priced 
food. We have identified a further four 
sites which will convert to the Hippo 
trading format over the next year.
We are aiming to establish, at least, 
a further three Expert partnerships 
during 2016, with the objective of 
having around 8 to 12 sites in total 
operating in the Expert model by 30 
September 2016. The experience 
we have gained in working with 
Rupert in the design and execution 
of the model gives us confidence 
that this approach provides us with 
the optimum means with which to 
operate sites with exceptional profit 
potential.
We also recognise that we require 
tailored agreements which suit 
the particular circumstances of 
our operating partners, and have 
therefore designed three variants of 
the commercial agreement to allow 
us to partner with both start-up and 
established businesses and to enable 
us to work alongside other investors.
Bermondsey  
Pub Company
Fourteen of our current managed 
houses are operated by our 
Bermondsey Pub Company. We have 
recruited and resourced our own team 
and are using our segmentation work 
to identify those pubs into which we 
can most effectively install a managed 
operating model utilising one of two 
preferred choices of retail proposition. 
As demonstrated by our experience 
in existing sites, this managed model 
is best suited to a mainstream offer 
which has a mix of food and wet 
sales. 
We currently have eight of the 
Bermondsey Pub Company sites 
operating in our “Meeting House” 
format, an upper mid-market, mixed 
food and drink offer. Four of these 
sites are in London and the South 
East. Our “Friends and Family” format 
is currently operating six sites in the 
mid-market, mixed food and drink 
segment, predominantly in the North.
Our average capital investment in 
these sites has been £159,000 to 
date, and the sites are currently 
achieving average weekly takings 
of £11,000. It remains early days for 
many of these investments as we 
build sales and capability, but we 
expect to deliver returns in excess of 
our 15% ROI hurdle rate across this 
estate.
We have recently recruited an 
Operations Director for Bermondsey 
Pub Company who is formerly 
of Mitchells & Butlers and an 
experienced multi-site operator 
who will ensure that these two 
trading formats are tightly defined 
and executed, and able to evolve 
as market opportunities arise. We 
anticipate operating approximately 
25 to 35 sites in Bermondsey Pub 
Company by 30 September 2016, and 
have identified a pipeline of suitable 
conversions to meet this aspiration.
The Craft Union  
Pub Company
In addition to the 14 managed 
sites operated by Bermondsey 
Pub Company we are currently 
operating 21 managed sites within 
The Craft Union Pub Company, 
which has developed a wet-led, 
good value, community pub offer 
operating in predominantly urban 
and neighbourhood locations. This 
model allows us to attract the 
entrepreneurial flair of great 
managers, who seek the opportunity 
to enjoy the support and protection 
of our managed business, whilst 
retaining some freedom to co-evolve 
our retail offer in order to best meet 
the needs of their local communities.
Conversion to this trading format 
is relatively straightforward and we 
are pleased with the performance 
of these outlets to date. Capital 
investment upon conversion has 
averaged £105,000, with a significant 
proportion of the expenditure directed 
16
Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.indd   16 07/12/2015   17:24:45 24341 .04    7 December 2015 5:10 PM    Proof 7
towards high quality installations 
of sports-viewing audio visual 
equipment, and we are currently 
generating average weekly takings 
of £7 ,000 and returns on investment 
ahead of our 15% ROI hurdle rate.
We have identified a strong pipeline 
of future conversions and anticipate 
operating 60 to 80 outlets in this 
model by 30 September 2016. 
Quality commercial 
property portfolio
Where appropriate, our high quality, 
well-located, estate of sites are 
suitable for letting under standard 
commercial property agreements. 
The capital expenditure requirement 
in this estate is low, and the overhead 
required to manage the portfolio is 
extremely low.
Under such agreements, our 
predominant source of income 
is rent, paid quarterly in advance 
and reviewed every five years on 
an upwards-only basis, and the 
properties are let on a fully repairing 
and insuring basis, in common 
with standard commercial property 
agreements. The majority of such 
sites continue to operate as pubs, 
and the operators may choose to 
procure their drinks requirements 
from us, taking advantage of the 
extensive range we offer. We now 
have four pubs within our commercial 
property estate operating on turnover-
related rental agreements where 
we receive a fixed monthly rent and 
a supplementary share of turnover, 
allowing the Group to share in the 
upside of sales growth in such sites. 
We have grown our commercial 
property estate from 185 sites at 
12 May 2015 to 213 sites at 30 
September 2015, adding a net 28 
sites at an average rent of £89,000 
during this period, demonstrating the 
high quality of the assets converted, 
and the quality and covenant strength 
of the occupational tenants in situ. 
The average rent in the whole 
commercial property estate has 
therefore increased from £53,000 in 
May 2015 to £56,000 by the year-end. 
This estate is currently 100% let with 
94% on substantive agreements with 
an average length of lease of 18 years 
and average length of agreement 
remaining of 13 years. The quality 
of tenure in this estate is high, with 
minimal overdue balances or bad debt 
history.
Our total income (annualised) in the 
commercial property estate is £12 
million, and the estate is currently 
valued at £142 million, implying a 
yield of 8.4% or a multiple of 12 times 
earnings.
We anticipate growing our 
commercial property estate to 300-
350 sites by 30 September 2016, and 
we are committed to maintaining the 
high quality of the characteristics of 
the properties in this estate. When we 
believe that the scale and economics 
of the portfolio are optimal, we 
hope to be in a position to secure 
the potential benefits of conversion 
to REIT status, were the Board to 
determine that it was in the best 
interests of shareholders to make 
such election at the relevant time.
Where publicans who are currently 
on tied agreements transfer to 
the MRO model, the sites will be 
managed by our commercial property 
team, but will only be transferred to 
our commercial property estate on 
a permanent basis if they meet our 
strict quality criteria, in order that the 
underlying quality of the estate is 
not compromised. Sites that fail to 
meet the quality criteria, and where 
we believe that the MRO outcome is 
unattractive, will be run as commercial 
properties until such time as an 
opportunity arises to generate optimal 
returns through conversion to an 
alternative model. 
Enhancing our team
Our continuing operational 
momentum is due, in no small part, 
to the quality and tenacity of the 
Enterprise team. While our strategy 
requires new skills and capabilities, 
we are committed to developing and 
redeploying the necessary talent from 
within, wherever possible, in order to 
facilitate the effective execution of our 
plans.
However, we have identified the 
requirement to recruit new expertise, 
particularly in such areas as retail 
operations, concept development, 
change programme management and 
systems and financial reporting. We 
are very pleased to have been able 
to attract high quality, experienced 
recruits into all of these areas in order 
to underpin the effective delivery 
of our strategy and drive returns to 
shareholders.
As our strategic execution grows in 
pace and scale, we expect to grow 
our central overhead in a disciplined, 
but forward-looking manner, and 
anticipate costs to increase from £37 
million to £39 million in 2016, with 
similar increases in each of 2017 and 
2018.
W S T ownsend 
Chief Executive Officer
16 November 2015
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 30 September 2015
17
www.enterpriseinns.com
Stock code: ETI
Strategic Report Governance Accounts Shareholder Information
Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.indd   17 07/12/2015   17:24:45
