 At a glance
Supporting longer and healthier lives through 
delivering integrated, excellent and innovative 
healthcare technology.
Who we are
EMIS Group is a major provider of healthcare software, information technology and related 
services in the UK. Our solutions are widely used across every major UK healthcare setting from 
primary and community care, to high street pharmacies, secondary care and specialist services. 
This means the Group can facilitate the NHS’s connected care strategy across every major UK 
healthcare setting through organic growth, partnering or acquisition. This is a unique position. 
Operational review P20 Strategy P12
Clinical software 
and services
EMIS Health includes our 
clinical software businesses 
(formerly EMIS, Ascribe, 
Digital Healthcare, Indigo 4 
and Rx Systems) covering the 
primary care, commissioning, 
community pharmacy, 
community care, mental health, 
secondary care and diabetic 
eye screening.
Non-clinical ICT 
solutions and services
Egton provides non-clinical 
products and services for 
customers across the EMIS 
Group and to others in the 
healthcare market.
Patient-facing 
and online services
With many millions 
of visitors each month, 
Patient® (www.patient.info) 
is our widely recognised, 
patient-facing brand – now 
able to take a global position 
having rebranded from 
Patient.co.uk in June 2015.
Provision of 
healthcare screening
EMIS Care is the highly 
successful and clinically 
well regarded healthcare 
screening arm of the business 
(previously operating under 
the Medical Imaging brand).
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
2
Strategic report We link up different healthcare sectors through integrated and interoperable technology that 
makes patient information available where it’s needed, when it’s needed. We help clinicians 
provide better, more efficient healthcare. This is how we support longer, healthier lives.
EMIS Group serves the following healthcare settings:
Primary & Community Care
Primary care – EMIS Web uses the latest technologies 
to deliver integrated healthcare. It is the most widely used 
clinical system and it provides healthcare organisations access 
to patient information in real time at the point of care which 
improves patient safety and clinical outcomes. 
Child, Community and Mental Health – Using EMIS Web 
in the community gives access to records and allows care 
plans to be created across different community settings. This 
helps provide a better experience for the patient through 
a joined up approach.
EMIS Mobile allows mobile working online or offline 
at the point of care.
Patient – This is the Group’s website that helps patients 
play a key part in their own healthcare through high 
quality information. It also supports professionals 
in clinical decision making by providing high quality, 
accurate and up to date reference material.
Egton – Provides non-clinical ICT solutions such as 
bespoke websites for healthcare professionals and other 
public and private sector organisations. It also supplies 
ICT infrastructure and hosting services.
Community Pharmacy
ProScript® is the most widely used system in the pharmacy 
software market. It efficiently manages the dispensing 
process and handles standard tasks such as labelling and 
endorsing, patient records, ordering and stock control.
Pharmacy Access enables pharmacies to view a 
summarised patient record and order repeat prescriptions 
direct from the GP to provide a joined up service.
Secondary Care
EMIS Group software is used by NHS Trusts in a wide range 
of secondary care settings.
Our systems are mainly used to manage hospital pharmacy 
and prescribing, unscheduled care and electronic patient 
records (including patient administration systems) and 
electronic messaging and order communications.
Specialist Care
EMIS Group provides IT systems for specialist care settings, 
offering expert and invaluable solutions to niche markets 
with speciﬁc requirements, such as image management 
and storage for the ophthalmology market. The Group 
also provides diabetic retinopathy services to patients.
Business model P8
EMIS Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
3
Governance Strategic report Financial statements
