 Strategic Report 16
EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
EnQuest in 2015
Our strategic priorities are to grow 
production by delivering on operational and 
development execution, while reducing the 
operating cost base and strengthening the 
balance sheet. In 2015, EnQuest delivered 
an excellent operational performance, whilst 
at the same time significantly reducing cost, 
given the low oil price environment. 2015 
cash capital investment was 29% down on 
2014. In 2016, the focus is on the Kraken 
development. 
Lower future oil price assumptions reduced 
overall reserves and EnQuest started 2016 
with a net 2P reserve base of 216 MMboe. 
Notwithstanding this decrease, the new 
total represents a net 167% increase since 
EnQuest’s formation six years ago or an 18% 
growth per annum and a current reserve life 
of 18 years. 
Industry context
Prior to the oil price declines which started 
in 2014, the UK oil and gas industry had a 
high operating cost structure. The wake-up 
call of low oil prices galvanised the industry 
to cut costs. Since its inception, operating 
efficiency has been central to EnQuest. This 
is how, in its first five years, EnQuest was 
able to hold unit operating costs broadly 
flat, when on average they doubled across 
the UK North Sea. In practice, EnQuest 
has always been pursuing cost reduction 
strategies. The new lower cost base 
currently being forced on the oil and 
gas industry in the UK needs to represent 
a lasting structural change. 
EnQuest believes that the need to 
protect critical infrastructure is an 
important objective in the current climate. 
If operators of these infrastructure nodes 
are considering cessation of production, 
the implications for other connected asset 
owners must be considered. Assets need to 
be in the hands of the right owners, owners 
who are operationally competent and who 
have the financial capability to make the 
level of investment required to fund not 
only current cost efficiency and investment 
programmes, but also to fund longer term 
growth. Simplification of the UK upstream 
tax regime and a programme of reduction 
in the headline level of oil and gas tax rates 
are essential to create certainty and to drive 
the investment needed to ensure optimal 
extraction of hydrocarbons, for the decades 
potentially still to come in the North Sea. 
The Department of Energy & Climate 
Change’s (‘DECC’) has an evolving strategy 
for ‘Maximising Economic Recovery (‘MER’) 
for the UK’, to ensure the North Sea is fully 
developed. The Oil & Gas Authority (‘OGA’) 
has been established as DECC’s operationally 
independent executive agency and as a 
regulator. The UK Government has recently 
formed a North Sea oil group to provide 
support to the industry. EnQuest looks 
forward to adding value to these initiatives 
through applying its capabilities to optimise 
the recovery of oil from the North Sea.
EnQuest’s performance in a lower oil 
price environment
The current period of lower oil prices 
started in the second half of 2014, when 
EnQuest implemented its oil price hedging 
programme and accelerated its programme 
of working closely with the supply chain to 
reduce operating and capital expenditure. In 
2015, the cost base was further substantially 
reduced and the oil price hedging was 
increased and extended. The investment 
programme itself was materially cut back and 
reprioritised, with EnQuest deselecting and 
exiting a number of countries and assets. 
“In 2015, EnQuest delivered 
an excellent operational 
performance, whilst at the 
same time significantly 
reducing costs given the  
low oil price environment.”
Dr James Buckee 
Chairman Strategic Report 17
EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Additions to 
reserves 2010 
to start 2016
Strong reserves growth in EnQuest’s 
ﬁrst six years 
(MMboe) 
81 (55)
190
216
Net 2P reserves
start 2010
Production
2010 to 2015
Net 2P reserves 
at start 2016
EnQuest values
Passion
Passion is a value that thrives at 
EnQuest, where a creative and 
collaborative culture has been 
cultivated. Your ideas are valued and 
exchanging these ideas is encouraged. 
It’s commonplace to share your passion 
for resolving everyday challenges and 
to continually deliver on projects. It’s 
this collective passion that keeps things 
exciting and makes me look forward to 
the next challenge here.
Haekal Hashim
Geologist, Subsurface
Despite these challenges and the 
considerable reductions in previously 
planned levels of spending, EnQuest 
achieved an excellent operational 
performance in 2015. The very strong 31% 
year on year production growth represents 
a compound annual growth rate of 18% 
since EnQuest began. In its first full year, 
Malaysia has been established as a material 
part of the Group, with a 25% contribution 
to total production. The implementation 
of EnQuest’s hub strategy at the Greater 
Kittiwake Area has already delivered 
considerable production and cost 
efficiency success and with the sanction 
of the adjacent Scolty/Crathes development 
is set to continue to do so. The Alma/Galia 
field achieved first oil in October 2015, 
with the FPSO finally being ready to accept 
hydrocarbons. Since its sanction in 2013, the 
Kraken development has consistently been 
on schedule and in 2015, through rigorous 
project management, it secured a c.10% 
reduction against its original approved 
capital costs, with further progress in 2016.
EnQuest’s funding facilities include a 
$1.2 billion committed credit facility, with a 
$500 million accordion. In 2015, to provide 
greater flexibility for its capital expenditure 
programme, EnQuest renegotiated 
covenants with its lending banks and these 
were relaxed until mid-2017. The covenants 
were fully complied with in 2015 and ongoing 
continued compliance with its covenants 
remains a priority for 2016 and beyond. 
The EnQuest Board
In August 2015, EnQuest welcomed Phillip 
Holland to the Board, as a new Non-Executive 
Director. Phil has extensive international 
project management experience in oil and 
gas, making him a valuable addition to the 
Board. Otherwise the composition of the 
Board remained constant during 2015. In 
2016, Clare Spottiswoode will be retiring from 
the Board and will therefore not be standing 
for re-election at our forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. The Board would like to 
extend its gratitude to Clare for her valuable 
contributions during her tenure with EnQuest.
The Directors assess and evolve EnQuest’s 
strategy as appropriate, taking key decisions 
on its implementation. 
In 2015, the strategic focus was on positioning 
the business for an extended period of lower 
oil prices, whilst also ensuring it continued to 
achieve its operational targets. Delivery of 
these ongoing programmes has only been 
possible due to the agility and collaboration  
of EnQuest’s people. The Board would like  
to thank everyone at EnQuest for such an 
impressive performance in these  
challenging times. 
Governance 
The Board believes that the manner in 
which EnQuest conducts business is 
important and is committed to delivering 
the highest standard of corporate 
governance. Ensuring EnQuest has the right 
approach to governance and that the Board 
works effectively remain a key focus. 
EnQuest is required to comply with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, as revised 
in 2014. The Board is pleased to report that 
all the principles of the code were complied 
with in 2015. EnQuest embraces the spirit 
of the code and views corporate governance 
as an essential part of its framework, 
supporting structure, risk management 
and core values. 
EnQuest’s Corporate Responsibility is 
focused on Health and Safety, People, 
Environment, Business Conduct and 
Community. EnQuest is committed to 
operating responsibly and never knowingly 
compromises its health and safety standards 
to meet its operational objectives. Our 
approach to HSE&A management is built 
on our Company values. Through respect for 
our people, our contractors, our stakeholders 
and the environment, we pursue our principal 
aim: safe results, with no harm to people and 
respect for the environment.
EnQuest has developed an Environmental 
Management System to ensure its activities 
are conducted in such a way that EnQuest 
minimises and mitigates its impact on the 
environment. The system is aligned with 
the requirements of the International 
Organisation for Standardisation’s 
(‘ISO’) environmental management system 
standard: ISO 14001:2004. EnQuest works 
to minimise its impact on the environment 
and report on and measure liquid waste, 
accidental spills, atmospheric emissions, 
waste management and continual 
improvement. Detailed environmental 
statements relating to EnQuest’s operations 
are available on its website.
Dividend
The Company has not declared or paid any 
dividends since incorporation and does not 
intend to pay dividends in the near future. 
Any future payment of dividends is 
expected to depend on the earnings and 
financial condition of the Company and on 
such other factors as the Board of Directors 
of the Company considers appropriate.
Delivering sustainable growth
In 2014, EnQuest started putting in 
place its programme to address lower 
oil prices. In 2015, EnQuest took that 
programme substantially further forward 
and has done so again in early 2016. 
EnQuest has a more positive long term 
view of oil prices than the levels which 
have prevailed in the first quarter of 2016. 
Nonetheless, EnQuest continues to manage 
rigorously on the planning assumption of a 
prolonged period of lower oil prices. With 
unit opex heading into the low $20s/bbl 
post Kraken, EnQuest is continuing to 
improve its position to cope with the 
current macro climate and beyond. 
