 4 | Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
Results
Group revenue for the year fell only slightly 
from £119.0m to £116.9m despite the closure 
during the year, as previously announced, of 
the Group’s solar business and the sale of 
Norwood Interiors (UK) Limited (“Norwood”). 
Both the solar business and Norwood 
have been classified in these accounts as 
discontinued operations. 
Group revenue from our continuing operations 
increased from £92.3m to £99.0m. Group 
operating profit from continuing operations 
(before exceptional items) fell 13% to £8.0m 
(2014: £9.2m). 
D AVID FORBES
INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Losses from discontinued operations amounted 
to £3.8m (2014: profit £1.1m) and exceptional 
charges were £0.5m (2014: £1.3m). Taxation was 
£1.0m (2014: £2.2m). As a result, total profit for 
the year fell to £2.7m from £6.7m. 
Earnings per share from continuing operations 
(before accounting for exceptional items) 
increased from 8.7p per share to 9.9p per share 
with earnings per share on a statutory basis 
falling to 4.2p per share (2014: 10.3p). 
At the year end, the Group had net cash of £1.4m 
(2014: £5.8m) and no borrowings.
Dividend
As a result of its limited distributable reserves at 
the point of IPO, the Company did not declare 
a final dividend for the year ended 31 October 
2014, but did instead declare a special dividend 
amounting to 1.5p per share which was paid on 
13 March 2015.
Subsequently the Board declared and paid 
an interim dividend of 2.67p per share and, 
as forecast, is recommending a final dividend 
of 2.67p per share payable on 6 May 2016 to 
shareholders on the register on 8 April 2016.
In the coming year the Board aims to maintain 
the current level of dividends, and would expect 
the payment profile to return to a more orthodox 
split paying one third as an interim dividend and 
two thirds as a final dividend.
Review of the year
The flotation of the Group in October 2014 
represented the start of another significant phase 
in its progression. 
As a result of being listed, the improved profile 
of the Group has undoubtedly increased the 
number of potential business and acquisition 
opportunities available to it, as well as improved 
senior management retention.  Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015 | 5
However, although the majority of the Group’s 
core operations performed well during the 
year, the Group faced one substantial issue.  
The UK market for Solar PV had become 
increasingly competitive and, despite a 
continuing fall in the cost of solar panels year 
on year, it was becoming difficult to foresee 
how margins could be maintained in the 
future.
Subsequently, the dramatic cut in feed-in 
tariffs recently announced by the government 
rendered the Solar PV product in the UK 
unattractive to consumers. Against this 
backdrop, the Board came to the considered 
view that the Group’s resources would be 
better allocated elsewhere in the Group. 
Accordingly, the business of selling solar 
products to retail customers was closed in the 
run up to the year end. The prompt decision 
to close the solar division was difficult but 
necessary, but it allows the Group to avoid 
the risk of future trading losses in this sector 
and focus Group management and resources 
on alternative and more attractive areas of 
growth.
Additionally, the small Norwood kitchen 
interiors business, which the Group 
considered non-core to its operations and 
its strategy, was also sold for a nominal sum 
during the year.
As the year progressed, it also became 
apparent that the Group needed to 
invest further in infrastructure and senior 
management resource in order to fulfil its 
obligations as a public company.
These issues, important as they are, disguise 
the fact that the Group’s other trading 
divisions all had a good year. 
Nevertheless, the closure of the solar 
division, and the resultant inability to allocate 
overheads against that division in the future, 
highlight the need for the management team 
to ensure sales costs and other variable costs 
are controlled, whilst simultaneously reducing 
fixed overheads arising from the Group’s 
various brands and operating locations to a 
minimum.
The acquisition of Astley Facades Limited 
(“Astley”) in March 2015 has proved very 
beneficial. Whilst its contribution to this year’s 
result is modest, the opportunity to cross 
sell the Group’s services and broaden the 
customer base are particularly significant.
The Board is therefore confident that the full 
benefits of this acquisition will be seen this 
year and in the future. 
Profit improvement initiatives
When the decision to close the solar business 
was made, the Board turned its attention to 
a review of the Group’s cost base as well as 
a number of profit improvement initiatives 
aimed at driving out process inefficiencies 
in its various sales and delivery models, 
whilst preserving the high level of customer 
satisfaction required to make any business in 
this sector a success.
Board
There have been a number of changes to the 
Board during the year as we have sought to 
expand the skills, experience and resources 
available to the Group this year. 
On 29 May 2015, Geoff Stevens was appointed 
to the Board as Chief Financial Officer (“CFO“) 
at the same time as Darren Cornwall assumed 
the position of Corporate Development 
Director. 
The Board had intended the CFO role to be 
part time, supported by a central finance 
function and other executive management. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GO VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 | Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT CONTINUED
The Board now believes the role needs to be 
full time and as a result, following an extensive 
external search, it was announced on 14 
January 2016 that Neill Skinner had joined the 
Board as CFO on a full time basis.
Neill has extensive experience of financial 
leadership roles, having previously been CFO 
at AIM-listed Clean Air Power and having held 
senior financial roles at British Nuclear Fuels 
PLC. He is a Chartered Accountant who began 
his career at PwC and EY. Neill also has a 
strong commercial background, having been 
International Development Director and then 
Strategy Director at Speedy Hire PLC before 
joining Clean Air Power. 
On the same date, Geoff Stevens stepped 
down as Chief Financial Officer and assumed 
the role of Non-Executive Director replacing 
David Grundy who resigned during the year. 
The Board would like to thank David Grundy 
for his wise counsel during the flotation 
process and up until his resignation on 28 
August 2015. 
After the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, 
Geoff will be appointed Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and become a member of 
the Remuneration Committee. The Board is 
delighted that they will retain the knowledge 
and experience of Geoff in his new role.
On 14 January 2016 we also announced the 
appointment of Andrew Corless to the Board 
as Chief Operating Officer. Andrew is currently 
Managing Director of Entu Energy Services, 
which comprises the Group’s installation 
businesses Job Worth Doing and Astley. 
Andrew has been with Entu since September 
2014 during which time he led Job Worth 
Doing and the growth of corporate and 
commercial contracts. 
Andrew’s promotion reflects the importance 
to Group strategy of the development 
of long term corporate contracts, and of 
Entu’s installation platform, which is a key 
differentiator for the Group.
People
Our transition to public Company status 
in what has been a difficult year would not 
have been achieved without the enthusiasm, 
professionalism and commitment of our people. 
On behalf of the Board, I would therefore like to 
thank them for their hard work and enthusiasm 
in embracing the changes necessary over the 
year, and as the Group aims to drive for greater 
efficiencies and synergy benefits in the coming 
year.
Acquisitions 
Whilst the short term focus is on securing gains 
from operational efficiencies and organic growth, 
it remains the Board’s long term strategy to 
make selective acquisitions to further develop 
the Group’s position as a national medium-sized 
operator in what is a highly fragmented sector. 
We therefore continue to actively seek 
complementary acquisitions in the product 
and geographical areas in which we currently 
operate, providing always that we can see 
a sensible return for the Group and its 
shareholders within a modest timescale. 
We recognise that these aims can be met 
through commercial partnerships and 
distribution agreements potentially at lower 
cost and lower risk to shareholders, as well as 
through outright acquisitions. 
It is fair to say that the executive management of 
the Group would have hoped to have completed 
more than one acquisition in its first year as a 
public company. 
Trading update and outlook
There is a trading update in the Chief Executive’s 
report which follows this statement.
It remains clear that the flotation will provide 
the Group with additional opportunities for 
growth, both by raising the profile of its existing  Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015 | 7
businesses and through a wider range of sources 
of funding for acquisitions and investment.   
The board intends to take advantage of these 
new opportunities as much as is prudent, whilst 
ensuring that the risks inherent in the group 
remain properly managed and controlled. 
The strategy remains unchanged. Entu is one of 
the UK’s leading home energy efficiency Groups 
providing energy efficiency products and services 
to homeowners and businesses nationwide. 
We are aiming to build a business that 
anticipates a broadening of its sales channels 
and is well placed to serve them, with an 
increasing range of products, through an 
efficient and established infrastructure.   
The Group enters the 2015/16 financial year 
with an ungeared balance sheet, a variety of 
new growth opportunities and an internal 
infrastructure better suited to its needs. 
The Board therefore remains confident that 
the Group is well placed to take advantage of 
the opportunities presented by the Company’s 
flotation for further profitable growth.
David Forbes
Chairman
STRATEGIC REPORT GO VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
