 8 | Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT
Overview
This has been a year of mixed fortunes for 
the Group following its admission to AIM 
in October 2014. On the one hand the 
acquisition of Astley, although small, was 
an excellent example of our successful 
acquisition strategy, not only in increasing 
Group profits from Astley itself but also the 
new opportunities that Astley brings to other 
businesses within the Entu Group. On the 
other hand, the difficulties that we faced in 
the solar business and its subsequent closure 
as the Government slashed feed-in tariffs for 
consumers was a significant blow. It may take 
us some time to find alternative sources of 
profit to completely replace those lost through 
the solar closure. Our strategy continues to be 
IAN BL A CKHURST
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
to develop a diversified and integrated product 
portfolio with, at its core, high levels of customer 
satisfaction across the product range. It is also 
fair to say that management time has been 
diverted as we have come to understand our new 
obligations as a publicly listed company.
Results
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 
October 2015 included in this annual report and 
accounts show the progress we have made to 
date. Despite the closure of our solar business 
and the sale of Norwood during the year, 
Group revenue fell only slightly from £119.0m 
to £116.9m. Perhaps more importantly going 
forward our revenue from continuing operations 
increased from £92.3m to £99.0m.
Group operating profit (before exceptional items) 
from our continuing operations was £8.0m, a 
13% decrease from £9.2m in 2014. Discontinued 
operations, solar and Norwood, in aggregate 
contributed a loss of £3.8m after related central 
cost recharges and closure costs (2014: Profit 
£1.1m).    
During the year the Group incurred exceptional 
charges of £0.8m, £0.3m of which related to 
discontinued operations and which are detailed 
in note 5 to the financial statements included 
in this document. This compares to exceptional 
charges of £1.3m for the year ended 31 October 
2014 which related to costs associated with the 
listing on AIM.  
Taxation was £1.0m (2014: £2.2m). As a result, 
total profit for the year fell to £2.7m from £6.7m.
Adjusted earnings per share (excluding 
discontinued operations and exceptional items) 
for the year ended 31 October 2015 was 10.7p 
(2014: 10.7p). Basic earnings per share fell to 
4.2p (2014: 10.3p).  
At 31 October 2015, the Group had cash and 
cash equivalents of £1.4m with no drawn 
borrowings, compared to cash and cash  Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015 | 9 
equivalents of £5.8m a year earlier. The principal 
cash outflows during the year included dividends 
of £2.7m and IPO fees of £1.3m. 
The acquisition of Astley with its different 
working capital profile is a large part of the 
reason for the increase in receivables. 
Operational review
During the year, the Group redefined its 
segmental reporting analysis to reflect the 
closure of its solar division and the sale of 
Norwood. In particular, the closure of the solar 
division eliminated the vast majority of revenue 
and costs from the existing Energy Generation 
& Saving segment, and the remaining boiler 
revenue and costs were therefore merged for 
reporting purposes, with the Insulation segment 
under the new title Energy Saving & Insulation.
Home Improvements
Our home improvement products, doors, 
windows, conservatories and roofline, are sold 
through separate brands which are market 
leaders in their respective regions. The division, 
which remains our largest single division, has 
continued to perform well as our market share 
has held up.
Margins came under pressure in common 
with the industry as a whole but also as the 
division began to rationalise its finance offering 
in the second half, resulting in lower finance 
commission in the run up to a full reset of the 
division’s finance offering (in the light of recent 
FCA guidance) with effect from 1 November 
2015.
The order book continued to remain strong at 
approximately £9m throughout the year (2014 
approximately £9m), and was £9m at the year-
end. We continue to sense increasing consumer 
confidence as home owners decide to make 
improvements to their homes.
In the year to 31 October 2015, the division 
(excluding Norwood referred to below) 
reported profits of £4.0m (2014: £4.1m) on 
sales of £82.0m (2014: £80.6m). Net margin 
for the division was 4.9% (2014: 5.1%).    
During the year, the Group decided to 
dispose of its Norwood business because it 
was considered non-core to its operations 
and its strategy. 
On 1 October 2015, the Norwood business 
was disposed of for a nominal sum. In the 
year ended 31 October 2015, Norwood made 
attributable losses of £0.6m (2014: £0.3m) on 
revenue of £3.3m (2014: £3.7m).
Energy Saving & Insulation
During the year, products sold included solar 
photovoltaic installations, air to air heat 
pumps, voltage regulators, remote heating 
controls and boilers as well as cavity wall 
insulation, external wall insulation and loft 
insulation.  
At the beginning of the year, we saw 
significant disruption in our solar business 
caused by the poaching of part of our sales 
team by a competitor.  
A great deal of management time and 
resources were devoted to recruitment, 
training and managing this business in order 
to ensure that the customer experience 
was affected as little as possible by this 
disruption.  
The Group was then hit by the Government’s 
decision to slash feed-in-tariffs which 
rendered the solar panel product dramatically 
less attractive to consumers. Faced with an 
STRATEGIC REPORT GO VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 | Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT CONTINUED
obvious collapse of customer demand, the 
Group took a prompt decision to cease selling 
its solar panel products to the consumer. 
Since that point, it has wound down its solar 
installation activities in order to meet its 
existing obligations.  
Many of the sales personnel have been 
retrained in other parts of the Group’s 
activities in order to minimise job losses and 
redundancy costs.
The acquisition of Astley is significant. Astley is 
a market leader in energy efficient insulation 
and cladding products. Whilst it was loss 
making when it was acquired, it is now trading 
profitably. Its order book now stands in excess 
of £18m which has grown from just over £2m 
when the business was acquired. The Board 
sees this area as one of real opportunity as 
we expand into new energy efficiency markets 
through new products and skills.
For the year ended 31 October 2015, divisional 
sales for the continuing businesses were 
£14.3m (2014: £9.3m), an increase of 54% 
due largely to the acquisition of Astley in 
March 2015. This excluded sales of £14.5m 
(2014: £23.0m) related to the sale of solar 
product to retail customers, now discontinued.  
Attributable profit for continuing operations 
was £1.9m (2014: £3.2m). 
The shortfall in profit in this division arose 
almost entirely in insulation products, where 
attributable profit dropped from £2.7m in 
2014 to £1.7m this year as a result of the 
reduction of carbon offset funding through 
energy suppliers, although volumes have 
increased.
The discontinued solar business was budgeted 
to contribute, after central costs, some £1.6m 
to Group profit. Instead, when central costs 
are taken into account, the solar business 
has lost £3.1m this year including exceptional 
redundancy costs of £0.3m. The value of the 
Group’s diversified offering is shown by the 
modest impact this closure will have on the 
Group’s results in the medium term. 
Notwithstanding the setback, Energy Saving & 
Insulation continues to be a segment in which 
we see significant opportunities for growth in the 
long term with the increasing adoption of energy 
efficient products and technologies.  
 
Repair and Renewals Service Agreement (RRSA)
Our RRSA programme is an annual cover plan 
offered to customers on the majority of our 
products. It represented £2.7m of Group sales 
during the year up 12% on the previous year 
(2014: £2.4m). Attributable profit of £2.1m 
(2014: £1.9m) was earned giving the segment a 
margin of 78.9% in 2015 (2014: 78.8%) and, at 
the year end, around 55% of our customers were 
members of the programme (2014: 55%). One of 
the attractions of this business is that the run off 
value grows year on year and currently stands at 
£12.5 million based on current attrition levels.
Job Worth Doing
Our national installation service, Job Worth Doing, 
has comprehensive nationwide coverage with 
80% of the population living within one hour’s 
drive of one of our fourteen strategically located 
installation service centres. It therefore unites all 
our brands and products, and facilitates cross 
selling and the roll out of new products and 
services. 
During the year, the division has sought contracts 
to build on its high quality installation network 
across the UK with corporate customers and 
national retail chains. For one national retail 
chain, after successful regional trials, Job 
Worth Doing has been appointed as a national 
installation partner for its energy efficient 
windows and door products. Whilst it is early 
days yet, there are good signs that the partner 
installation process is working well, quality levels 
are being maintained and that the retailer is 
pleased with the progress made to date. The key  Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015 | 11 
to this work is customer satisfaction levels and 
the Company is working hard in this area in 
order to seek more work from national retailers 
of energy efficient products. To support our 
commitment to service, Job Worth Doing has 
been awarded the “Which?” approved “Trusted 
Trader” status. We believe Job Worth Doing is 
the first national installer of energy efficient 
products to achieve this.
  
Entu Energy Services does not account 
separately for its work the vast majority of 
which is for other Group companies and to 
whom all costs are directly recharged. As the 
amount of work carried out directly for third 
parties becomes material, we will consider how 
best to account for this revenue and profit.
The opportunities for Entu
A significant opportunity amongst the Group’s 
existing portfolio is in the area of energy saving 
and efficiency. With household energy costs 
rising materially in recent years and continuing 
cost volatility, consumers’ recognition of the 
long term economic advantages of energy 
efficiency continues to drive adoption. The 
Group covers this need across all of its divisions 
but particularly in cavity wall insulation, loft 
insulation, high efficiency boilers and the 
growing use of technology in controlling energy 
usage in the home.  
With our unique offering we are well placed to 
establish a market leading presence in the home 
efficiency market due to our integrated portfolio 
of services.
Another significant opportunity is the cross 
selling of the Group’s products and services into 
our base of 1.2 million customers. For example, 
in energy switching, we are beginning to offer 
all our customers the opportunity to seamlessly 
switch their energy supplier to the most cost 
effective option, with total independence and 
saving consumers up to 40% off their energy 
bills. Whilst this is a new area for Entu, early 
STRATEGIC REPORT GO VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 | Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT CONTINUED
signs are encouraging.
We are currently at an early stage of promoting 
products that will allow consumers to monitor 
their energy usage online and also to control 
remotely, on a real-time basis, their use of 
energy within the home.  
Secondly, there is a major push on replacing 
older and inefficient boilers with new energy 
efficient boilers making material savings on 
household bills.
Entu’s Group focus on these areas will help it 
develop its market leading position in energy 
efficiency.  
  
The opportunities in Job Worth Doing
The balance between customer satisfaction, 
customer service and maximising efficiencies 
within our operating model has always been a 
difficult one to get right.
Over the last six months, we have undertaken 
a thorough review of our processes from the 
point of sale through to final payment in order 
to remove some of the inefficiencies in that 
model whilst preserving high standards of 
customer satisfaction.  
Customer satisfaction is crucial to the cross 
selling of Group products and the additional 
contribution generated. We are targeting 
increasing conversion rates, minimising wasted 
visits and the introduction of survey fees, all 
in order to help minimise the amount of time 
spent by our installation teams which is not 
income generating.  
Some of the changes were introduced on 1 
November 2015 and we are encouraged by the 
results so far.  
Longer term we have to be prepared for 
changes in the way our products are sold by 
the market. Through Job Worth Doing we are 
building a platform that can anticipate and 
access different sales channels with a common 
flexible delivery platform.
New products
Through Job Worth Doing we have a national 
installation service covering over 80% of the 
population. We are actively looking, therefore, 
at the opportunity to introduce new products to 
this network which will allow further efficiencies 
in the use of that network as well as providing 
contribution from those new product lines 
themselves.  Acquisitions of, and commercial 
partnerships in relation to, complementary 
product lines and market areas in our highly 
fragmented sector remain a key part of our 
strategy.
Common branding
Entu has been built by combining a series of 
brands, each of which have been leaders in their 
own regional markets. Behind these brands, we 
have developed Job Worth Doing as a national 
installation service. We are investigating and 
examining the benefits of replacing those various 
brands with the Entu brand across the UK. Up 
until now, each brand has had its own way of 
accessing its own market, recognising that there 
are various approaches which work differently in 
different regions of the UK. 
However, we are now seeking ways of reducing 
the burden of supporting all those brands, and 
also looking at the practices both in the sales 
areas and in the way each operation interacts 
with Job Worth Doing in order to drive further 
profit improvements and efficiencies from the 
various models we operate. We need to do this 
in a way which preserves, as far as possible, the 
goodwill built up in each of those brands. This 
will not be an overnight process, but we believe 
that it will allow us to be more efficient when 
making further moves towards unified brands in 
our Home Improvement business.
Central costs
Running a listed company with public 
shareholders requires additional management 
time and investment to meet our obligations in  Entu (UK) PLC Annual Report 2015 | 13 
terms of corporate governance, shareholder 
interest and the time spent interacting with 
the City. We have had to recruit and invest 
in our Board and infrastructure in order to 
fulfil these obligations. At the same time, 
the closure of our solar division means that 
our central costs will have to be recovered 
over a smaller portfolio of businesses. We 
therefore have to make our businesses more 
efficient and grow our portfolio of businesses 
through the introduction of new products and 
complementary acquisitions and/or eliminate 
some central costs in order that those costs do 
not become an undue burden on the Group.    
Trading update
The closure of the solar business and the 
required investment in Group infrastructure 
has undoubtedly affected the profit potential 
of the Group over the next couple of years. 
Critically the central and management costs 
that had historically been allocated to the solar 
division, need to be eliminated or absorbed 
across the remaining continuing operations 
or by businesses yet to be acquired and/
or they will need to be offset against growth 
opportunities elsewhere or from the profit 
improvement initiatives referred to above. 
Accordingly, the Group is now taking a more 
prudent view on the outcome for the year than 
it had previously. The Board currently expects 
that the results for the year ending 31 October 
2016 will be marginally below those reported for 
the year ended 31 October 2015 for continuing 
operations.  
Outlook
Despite the challenges we have faced this year 
and will continue to face as we reshape the 
business in response to market changes, our 
core strategy remains unchanged. We have 
market leading positions, a diversified product 
portfolio and an improving understanding of the 
market in which we operate. We look forward to 
the future with confidence in our ability to deliver 
growth and improved shareholder returns over 
the medium term.  
Ian Blackhurst
Chief Executive
STRATEGIC REPORT GO VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
