 6
“As a result of a strong team performance
we achieved yet another record result for the Barratt Group”
Oyster Wharf, Battersea, London SW11. This
award-winning contemporary development of
150 homes, in a prominent West London
location, includes affordable housing, live-work
units and commercial and leisure space. As a result of a strong team performance we achieved yet
another record result for the Barratt Group.   We increased
completions and underlying profits, improved margins,
generated strong forward sales and strengthened our land
bank and balance sheet. 
We also received widespread recognition for the quality of
our designs and environmental performance, as well as the
quality of construction across the Group.
We remain well placed for further growth this year and in the
future.
HOUSEBUILDING
We completed a total of 14,601 new homes, an increase of
1.8%, at an average selling price of £165,800, which was
3.7% lower, as a result of the significant increase in social
housing units and changes in the geographic profile of our
completions. Total private completions were 5% down, at
11,899 units, with an increased selling price of £182,800,
up 0.4%. Social housing completions increased by 53.5%
to 2,702 at an average selling price of £90,500, down 11%.
Our housebuild turnover was £2,422.0m (2005: £2,472.4)
lower by 2%.
Our operating margin improved to 16.7% (2005: 16.0%),
benefiting from our strict control of build costs, and the
impact of the implementation of a wide–ranging efficiency
drive in each of our divisions. We also improved the
efficiency of our selling and marketing activities and
increased sales outlets. All this helped mitigate general cost
pressures and improve our margin. We continue to take
action to further reduce costs throughout our business.
The underlying operating profit from our core housing
activity increased to £404.6m, up 2%.
FORWARD ORDER BOOK
We started the new financial year with a strong forward order
book of £845m and, with further good sales progress,
forward sales have now increased to £1.14bn, 27% higher
than last year, and a new record. Together with completions
to date, this secures 56% of our full year requirement.
These record forward sales put us in a healthy position for
the coming year.
HOUSING MARKET
In the first 6 months of our financial year the housing
market was challenging. However, in the second half
sentiment improved and buyer confidence returned to
normal. Nevertheless, we competed well in all of our
operational areas throughout the year and produced a good
sales result.
The fundamentals of the housing market remain sound, with
good buyer confidence, a benign interest rate environment
and good employment levels.  These are underpinned by a
severely restricted supply of housing across the country
caused by constant planning delays. There is an enormous
need for new homes and every year that this demand
remains unsatisfied, pent up demand increases. We are well
placed to help satisfy this need.
On current trends we are confident of another year of
progress.
David Pretty, Group Chief Executive,
Barratt Developments PLC.
group chief executive’s review
Right: Highwood, Kenley, Surrey. This development of 79
traditionally-styled new homes is in a superb location with
convenient access to the M25 and Gatwick airport.
7 8
CORE STRENGTHS
Our core strengths of geographic and product diversity and
our urban regeneration and social housing expertise,
continue to support business growth and provide valuable
protection from market fluctuations.
Geographic and Product Diversity
Two of our greatest strengths are our wide geographic
spread and extensive product range.  These ensure we
avoid an over-dependence on any one geographic area or
market sector and enable us to adjust production, sales and
land buying in line with market conditions.  Today, we have
over 450 sites being built by our 33 operating divisions
working throughout England, Scotland and Wales.  We are
able to serve virtually all sectors of the market at prices
currently from £85,000 to over £2m.  Nevertheless, we have
a competitive average selling price of £165,800 which
increases our appeal to the widest range of buyers.
Earlier this year, we successfully launched our new iPad
product, targeted at bridging the affordability gap for first-
time buyers.  An ideal first step on the home ownership
ladder, it provides good living space, a stylish open plan
kitchen, a separate double bedroom and full bathroom, plus
its own private balcony – all within 380 sq ft and at an
affordable price.  The first 30 iPads have recently been
completed in Middlesbrough and were all sold well ahead of
construction, at prices from £85,000.  5 further sites for 120
iPads are now under construction in Northern England, with
11 further sites for 484 iPads soon to start in various
locations across Britain.  An additional 48 sites for 1,642
iPads are in the pipeline.
The Group also recently unveiled an ‘Eco-Village’ of new
homes in Chorley, Lancashire, each packed with the latest in
energy efficient and ‘green’ technologies.  The first project of
its kind in Britain, it opened to wide acclaim.  The seven
traditional family houses will be independently assessed by
the University of Manchester in order to establish accurate
data on energy costs and benefits, as well as customer
preferences.  The findings will help us assess and evaluate a
wide-range of state-of-the-art technologies in a variety of
permutations.  It will also help us decide which features we
1 2
3 9
can cost-effectively include in future homes whilst
maintaining affordability for our buyers.
We are increasing our investment in the Midlands and North
of England, where we already have successful divisions, but
where we believe we can further profitably increase market
share. This will include the upper market sector where a
new range of homes will be introduced during the year.
Already, 4 prestigious sites for 100 homes have been
acquired with the first units due for completion in 2007.
Other areas of the country have been identified where we
can increase coverage and market share.    
Our new East Anglia division got off to a successful start in
the year, completing its first 30 homes. It has a range of
sites now under way and should complete 150 homes this
year.  It is on track to complete over 400 homes a year by
2010.
In June we completed the acquisition of Squires Bridge
Limited, a small Guildford based developer. The acquisition
is expected to provide over 250 low–rise traditionally built
homes from four development sites in Hampshire and West
Sussex.  This follows the acquisition last year of Acre
Developments Limited which provided 375 plots in Scotland.
4
1 The Boulevard, Edinburgh. We have completed a series of highly-
successful developments in the capital. This project is providing
35 new homes on a former retail site in a superb location.
2 Barratt EcoSmart show village, Chorley, Lancashire. We have
incorporated the latest in energy-efficient and ‘green’ technologies
into seven family homes, whose performance is being
independently assessed by the University of Manchester.
3 Freemens Meadow, Leicester. This project is creating a vibrant new
community of up to 1,000 homes, plus shops, restaurants and
offices on a 37-acre derelict waterfront site.
4 The Galleria, Peckham, London SE16. This unique partnership
scheme, on a former printing works, is providing 98 homes for
local people, plus 50 artists’ studios let at around half the
commercial rate through Acme Studios, a registered charity.
5 Steven Boyes, Group Board Executive Director (centre), with
Andrew Devine and Samantha Evers, of Barratt York, winners of the
Group’s Development Team of the Year award. 
6 & 7  Barratt iPad apartments have been designed to help bridge the
growing affordability gap for first-time buyers. The iPad provides
good living space, open-plan kitchen, separate double bedroom and
full bathroom, plus private balcony.
7
6
5 10
1
Urban Regeneration and Brownfield Development
We continue to lead the regeneration of Britain’s cities and
urban areas with a 30 year track record in brownfield
development and urban renewal. 82% (over 11,900) of our
homes in the year were built on brownfield sites, rising to
over 95% in London.  This is well in excess of the
Government’s 60% target.
Our urban regeneration activities are not solely undertaken
in London and the South East. Our brownfield activities
extend to towns and cities across the rest of the country,
including: Newcastle, Leeds, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Cardiff,
Bristol, Birmingham, Leicester, Brighton and Southampton.  
Our expertise is vividly illustrated by our recent
transformation of the centre of Swiss Cottage (see front
cover photograph) in North West London.  A ground-
breaking public/private partnership between Barratt,
commercial partner Dawnay Day and Camden Council, our
‘Visage’ project is a spectacular 16-storey glass apartment
building, including both luxury apartments and family
apartments for local tenants to be managed by Ujima and
Acton Housing Associations.  A new 76,000 sq ft sports and
leisure centre has also been provided for the local
community, as well as a new community centre and a
doctors’ surgery.  
2
3 A notable new example is in South Lanarkshire, West
Scotland. Here, Barratt and AMEC Developments are
working together, alongside a PFI project being promoted by
AMEC to renew schools. Barratt has secured 9 sites to
build almost 1,400 new homes worth more than £185
million. This is one of the largest programmes undertaken by
Barratt in recent years, will start next year, and run on until
2011. This will help reinforce our position as a leading
housebuilder in Scotland.
Brownfield development has massive potential right across
Britain.  With our unrivalled track record and our ability and
willingness to work with others, we remain very well placed
to contribute to, and benefit from, the nation’s increasing
emphasis on urban regeneration.
Social Housing Partnerships
Our social housing partnerships continue to contribute to the
success and growth of our business.  We lead the industry
in the provision of affordable housing, whether it is for low
cost homes for sale, rent, shared ownership or special
needs.  We significantly increased output in the year,
building 2,702 homes for our housing association partners,
an increase of 54%.  Our production has increased 216%
over the past 5 years and we remain the largest provider of
social housing from the private sector.
Currently, we have 157 partnerships underway across
Britain, with a further 49 due to start.  
In June we became the first housebuilder to receive direct
funding from English Partnerships to provide low cost first-
time buyer homes for key workers in the South East.  The
grant will be used at our major ‘Axiom’, Feltham
regeneration project in the London Borough of Hounslow.
There is an enormous and growing need for social housing
in all its forms and Government emphasis on this crucial
sector is increasing.   With our long experience in this field
and our national network of local divisions, we remain well
placed to contribute and maintain our leadership.
11
5 6
4
1 City Point, Brighton. The former goods yard of the city’s
railway station is being transformed into a mixed-tenure
scheme of 248 contemporary homes. A supermarket, hotel
and training school are also planned for the site.
2 Mark Pain, Group Finance Director, presents Fiona Santini, of
Barratt Exeter, with the Group’s Sales Advisor of the Year
award.
3 Explorer Court, Plymouth. This highly-successful development
provided 51 homes in a prime location and won praise for its
bold design.
4 Clive Fenton, Group Board Executive Director (centre), with
London-based apprentices. Our apprentice training
programme continues to be the largest in the industry.
5 Stylish interiors: our homes feature versatile interior layouts,
thoughtfully-designed to maximise living space to suit modern
lifestyles.
6 The Zone, Bristol. This stunning contemporary development in
the heart of the city is providing 320 apartments and
townhouses, including homes for rent and shared ownership. 12
LAND AND PLANNING
Our land acquisition and planning skills continue to serve us
well.  Once again we were able to strengthen the size and
quality of our land bank in the year, acquiring 19,661 plots,
which was 5,060 plots, 35%, more than we used.  These
increased the land bank to 59,000 plots and, including
7,500 further plots agreed, now brings our total land bank to
over 66,500 plots.  This is the highest ever and represents
4.5 years’ supply at current volumes.
We spent £841m on land acquisition during the year, an
increase of £96m over the preceding year.  This reflects our
continuing investment in the organic growth of the business.
Notwithstanding the extremely slow planning system, we
achieved an increased level of planning approvals for
18,840 plots.  This is 15% more than the previous year. As
a result, we have all the necessary approvals in place to
achieve our requirements for this year.  Furthermore, over
90% of the land required for 2007/08 is already owned or
contracted, and over 70% for the following year, 2008/09.
SKILLS TRAINING
Our apprentice training programme continues to be the
largest in the industry, making a real contribution to
addressing the national construction skills shortage.
Currently, over 500 apprentices are receiving on-site skills
training on our developments nationwide.  In addition, we
have 55 graduates on fast-track career paths.
We have significantly increased our investment in general
skills training.  Over a third of our workforce has now
achieved the CSCS (Construction Skills Certification
Scheme) standard.  We remain on track to have a fully
carded and qualified workforce, including our
subcontractors, by 2010.  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
We have continued to make good progress in Corporate
Responsibility (CR) and our strategy has become more
embedded in our day-to-day operations across all areas of
our business, including governance and risk, environmental
management, human resources, health and safety,
community issues and supply chain management.
During the year we achieved the international standard
ISO 14001 for Environmental Management at a further 9
divisions, bringing the total to 15.  By the end of 2007 all
divisions should have an environmental management system
certified to ISO 14001.  This will assist us in controlling risks
and delivering continual environmental improvement on our
development sites.
We continue to work closely with all our stakeholders and
over the last 12 months have concentrated on engagement
with employees and customers.  We developed a new
corporate induction programme, which informs our
employees about our commitment to CR, and also launched
a Customer Care Code of Practice.
Further details of our progress are available in our third CR
report at www.barratt-investor-relations.co.uk
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Whilst we have made good progress in our management of
health and safety during the year to 30th June, in particular
a reduction of 36% in our accident rate to 672 reportable
accidents per 100,000 persons employed, we are saddened
to report that a fatal accident occurred on a Barratt
development on 26th September 2006.
The accident occurred at our Battersea Park Road
development in London when a tower crane collapsed and
resulted in the tragic deaths of two people.  Barratt is very
shocked by this loss of life and, together with the crane
contractor Falcon, is working closely with the Police and
Health and Safety Executive to establish exactly what
happened.
1 2 13
3
1 The Dell, Southampton. This award-winning development built on
Southampton’s former football stadium provided 228 new homes,
including 44 for rent, and utilises a geo-thermal district heating
system.
2 Geoff Hester, Group Board Executive Director, at Heron’s Landing,
Fareham, a superb development of 16 waterside homes close to
the town centre.
3 Capital East, London E16.  One of the largest single redevelopment
schemes in Docklands, this will provide around 700 apartments,
plus retail and leisure space. Already more than 500 homes have
been sold.
4 Barratt site managers swept the board in the prestigious NHBC
Pride In The Job competition for quality workmanship, winning
more awards than any other builder. Three won top Regional
Awards: (l-r) Michael Dent, Ian Ingram and John Fox.
5 Laurence Dent, Corporate Director (left), and Bhagwant Singh
Chodha, a bricklayer with Barratt Leeds, who beat off competition
from over 500 other apprentices to become the Group’s Apprentice
of the Year.
4
5 14
CUSTOMER CARE
We have completed a comprehensive overhaul of our quality
and customer service procedures and our independently
audited buyer survey responses show continued
improvement. However, we are targeting further, and lasting,
improvement in all parts of our operation. 
Our new 10-point Customer Charter unequivocally sets out
the standards of quality and service we strive to provide to
our customers.  We have also rolled out a Customer Care
personal code of practice for all our staff, suppliers and 
sub-contractors, pledging our commitment to the core
values of integrity, respect and courtesy upon which the
delivery of quality and service depend.  A comprehensive
staff training programme for the new Charter and the Code
of Practice has been implemented.  
AWARDS 
Our construction teams produced another excellent
performance in this year’s NHBC “Pride in the Job”
campaign securing 53 Quality Awards, up from 51 last year,
a new record, and more than any other housebuilder.
Barratt was also named by the Sunday Times and Business
in the Community as one of the UK’s “Top 100 companies
that count”, and recognised by the Government’s advisory
body, CABE (Commission for Architecture and the Built
Environment) as one of only 5 private sector companies
“whose forward thinking and motivation has led to better
buildings and public spaces”. 
The Group also did extremely well in the 2006 Daily Express
British Housebuilder Awards, scooping 10 top honours,
more than any other housebuilder.  Barratt Homes lifted
Gold, Silver and Bronze awards in a variety of categories,
whilst KingsOak secured the Best National Builder in Britain
Award, for the second year in succession.
OUTLOOK
We have achieved another good result, despite a very
competitive market, and have delivered our 14th
consecutive year of growth. We have made a good start to
the new financial year and have a record forward order book
in place.  
The underlying fundamentals of the housing market remain
sound, the market has returned to normality and we are
confident of our ability to compete and continue to grow our
business.  Our national geographic spread and wide product
mix, together with our brownfield and social housing
expertise are key strengths. Notwithstanding general
concerns about interest rate trends, our record forward
sales, strengthened land bank and strong finances put us in
a healthy position for the coming year and will provide many
growth opportunities for the Group in the future.
David Pretty
Group Chief Executive 27th September 2006
1 The Grange, Harrow. This 138-home project on a former hospital
site involved the careful refurbishment of Edwardian Grade II listed
buildings into apartments, plus new-build townhouses.
2 Axiom, Feltham. In the London borough of Hounslow, work is under
way on two major town centre regeneration schemes. This project is
providing over 800 homes, including shared ownership homes for
local key workers and first-time buyers.
2
1 15
The Axis, Romford. Barratt has been a
key player in the Thames Gateway area
since 1981, completing over 12,000
homes. This landmark regeneration
scheme is providing 299 new homes
plus a new supermarket.
