 06
Barratt Developments PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
*Before restructuring costs of £26.2m: restructuring 
 costs of £13.1m related to Wilson Bowden and 
 £13.1m related to Barratt have been incurred.
Moving forward
Integrating the businesses
The integration of Wilson Bowden has 
progressed rapidly ensuring that the 
combined business will deliver synergies 
and strategic beneﬁts as quickly as possible. 
One of the principles of integrating the 
businesses has been to take the best from 
both organisations and this has been carried 
through. Ensuring best practice is followed 
and realising synergies will remain key 
priorities for us.
We now operate under two strong national 
brands for housebuilding – Barratt Homes 
and David Wilson Homes. We have also 
retained Ward Homes based predominantly in 
Kent as a strong local brand. The KingsOak 
brand has been discontinued. All the key 
management teams have been put in place 
and are working successfully to deliver our 
plans going forward with speciﬁc focus on 
improving operational performance.
Our regional network of ofﬁces has been 
reorganised to create 35 housebuilding 
divisions, each with a strengthened 
management team. 
Nine divisional ofﬁces were closed and we are 
planning to close both the Group ofﬁce in 
Newcastle and the former Wilson Bowden 
head ofﬁce in Ibstock. In all, 370 redundancies 
have resulted from the acquisition, with an 
expectation of approximately 400 in total. 
We now expect to deliver at least £60m of 
synergy savings in the second full year after 
completion, compared with the earlier 
estimate of £45m. Savings of at least £30m 
are expected to be delivered in 2007/8. 
Our priorities
Our objective is to maximise shareholder 
value by creating great places to live and 
work that serve the long-term needs of our 
customers and their communities.
To achieve this we will need to continue our 
focus on building revenues, improving quality, 
service and design, whilst lowering the cost of 
doing business. 
Competitive land purchasing is the life blood 
of the Group and last year we invested 
£1,012.7m, signiﬁcantly improving our position. 
We now have a land bank of 5.1 years at 
current production rates of which 72.2% has 
either detailed or outline planning permission. 
With the acquisition of Wilson Bowden we 
gained important strategic land assets and 
capabilities which we intend to exploit to the 
full to underpin further growth. We will also
Financially and operationally this has been a 
successful year for the Group. We have completed 
the acquisition of Wilson Bowden, rapidly integrated 
the two businesses and are already starting to deliver 
our synergy targets. 
At the same time we have continued to focus on 
improving our operational efficiency, increasing our 
investment in land whilst enhancing the capability of 
the organisation to deliver.
Our performance
The proﬁt before tax for the combined Group 
for the year was £427.8m – an increase of 
£36.4m (9.3%) on a turnover of £3,046.1m 
(2006: £2,431.4m) up 25.3%. This included 
a proﬁt before tax contribution from Wilson 
Bowden of £63.6m*, and a turnover 
contribution of £379.6m, for the last two 
months of the year. 
During the year both businesses have 
performed well with strong growth in 
completions. Barratt saw completions 
increase by 6.3% to 15,517 (2006: 14,601). 
Wilson Bowden performed strongly 
increasing completions by 19.2% to 2,635 
in the six months to June (2006: 2,211). 
Tight control of costs has helped us to 
deliver an operating margin before 
restructuring costs* of 16.7% (2006: 17.0%).
Forward sales for the Group at 1 July 2007 
were strong and totalled £1,414m, 14.8% 
ahead of the combined Barratt and Wilson 
Bowden total at 30 June 2006 of £1,232m 
and 67.3% up on the Barratt total of £845m 
at 30 June 2006. 
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement Land bank plots
Plots





Forward sales





07
Barratt Developments PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
It is not yet clear how quickly the market will
recover but we have to assume that there will
be downward pressure on volumes and price
inﬂ ation in the short-term.
However, the market fundamentals remain
strong with demand continuing to exceed
supply with the Government intent on
stimulating the sector by accelerating land
availability.
In the year ahead the market will continue to
change rapidly. Three areas of particular focus
will be:
Continued investment in the
acquisition of land
Further enhancing our urban
regeneration capabilities
Establishing leadership in the
move to zero carbon
Mark Clare
Group Chief Executive
Barratt Developments PLC
26 September 2007
enabling us to secure more business.
As we put in place the capability to deliver
higher volumes, we will also seek to ensure
that we do so with a lower cost base. So in
addition to delivering the synergy savings from
the acquisition, we are also focusing on day-to-
day efﬁ ciency improvements. Looking forward
we have identiﬁ ed further areas of improvement
and set stretching targets for delivery.
None of these priorities can be delivered
without the considerable ability of our people
- from land buying to planning and from
construction to sales. Over the last year
we have improved the capability of the
organisation through new recruitment and
development of our management teams.
We have also introduced a new graduate
programme and we are now setting out to
improve our apprenticeship scheme, already
one of the largest in the industry.
Outlook
We have already signalled that it would be
prudent to assume that the cumulative impact
of interest rate increases would result in the
housing market tightening in 2007/8. The
recent credit squeeze has further affected
customer sentiment and pressure on lending
institutions, has led to a tightening of lending
criteria and mortgage availability.
continue to focus on the delivery of land through
the planning process as effectively as possible.
The Group now has two of the best known
national house building brands with differing
market positions. The reputation of these
brands, together with effective sales
investment, will be critical in maintaining and
growing revenues. We have now relaunched
the Barratt Homes brand backed by TV
advertising and a new sales website. The
David Wilson Homes brand is beneﬁ ting from
the additional rebranding of KingsOak sites.
In recent years substantial progress has been
made in improving customer service and last
year 89% of Barratt Homes’ buyers said they
would recommend us to a friend, up from
85% in the previous year. However, there is
still further progress that needs to be made if
we are to create a Group that truly places the
customer at the heart of its business. This will
be underpinned by the setting of clear targets
for improvements within the remuneration
package of our senior managers.
During the past year we won numerous awards
for the design and quality of the homes and
communities we build. This will continue to be
a key priority as it not only underpins sales but
also enhances the reputation of the Group
Group overview
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement 08
Barratt Developments PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Continued investment in 
the acquisition of land
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement: Key focus 09
Barratt Developments PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Acquiring land competitively in the right areas is critical 
for the future success of the business. We have 
improved our land position, both in terms of our land 
bank and our strategic land capability, that will underpin 
longer-term growth. We will continue to focus on 
delivering developments through the planning process 
as effectively as possible to ensure that the land we 
hold is rapidly converted into vibrant new communities. 
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement: Key focus
Right: Cattle Market, 
Banbury, Oxon.
Below: Great West 
Quarter, Brentford
Group overview Further enhancing our urban 
regeneration capabilities
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement: Key focus
Right: Axiom 
redevelopment of 
Feltham
Below: Sarah Jones 
and her family
Barratt Developments PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10 Group overview
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement: Key focus
We are a leading force in urban regeneration, breathing 
new life into towns and cities – 78% of the Barratt 
developments we build are on brownﬁ eld land. Barratt 
has traditionally been strong in regeneration in London 
and the South of England. We now have a new specialist 
regeneration unit covering the North of England and are 
winning major new projects that will lead to thousands 
of new homes together with the social and economic 
renewal of the communities themselves.
Sarah Jones grew up in Feltham but 
moved away as she started her own 
life. However, when she and her 
partner were looking for a place 
together she rediscovered Feltham. 
She loves the new development and 
the change it has made to the whole 
area; so she’s now back in Feltham, 
with her family, and loving the 
difference it has made.
Barratt Developments PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 Establishing leadership 
in the move to zero carbon
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement: Key focus
Right: Award winning 
design for the 
‘Green House’
Below: The architects 
at Gaunt Francis 
at work on the 
‘Green House’
12
Barratt Developments PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
Barratt Developments PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement: Key focus
By 2016 new homes in the UK are required to be zero
carbon – this will mean major changes in how homes
are designed and supplied with energy. We have been
testing renewable technologies at our EcoSmart Show
Village in Chorley and based on our experience we now
have low carbon initiatives being installed in over 35
developments across the country including solar thermal
heating and photovoltaics.
Group overview
We have now started work on the
‘Green House’, one of the most
environmentally friendly homes ever
to be built in the UK. It will combine
the highest standards of energy
efﬁ ciency with the ability to generate
electricity within the home itself. In
future we will apply the lessons we
learn to the wide range of housing
we build.
