 04
Barratt Developments PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Group overview
The acquisition of Wilson Bowden 
The acquisition of Wilson Bowden, completed 
in April, has a strong underlying commercial 
logic and gives us new capabilities across 
the sector. 
The geographic coverage of our 
housebuilding activity across Great Britain 
has been further underpinned providing a 
strong base for future growth. The combined 
business also has products spanning the 
market – from ﬁrst time buyer homes to urban 
regeneration through to upmarket housing 
under the well respected David Wilson Homes 
brand. In addition, the enlarged Group is 
a major provider of social housing and 
commercial developments. 
Our land position has improved and we have 
increased access to considerable expertise 
in strategic land acquisition and delivery. 
The integration of the two businesses has 
progressed rapidly and is now ahead of our 
original plans both in terms of timing and 
savings to be realised. We now expect to 
deliver at least £30m of synergies in 2007/8 
and at least £60m in the second full year after 
completing the acquisition. 
As a result of the acquisition we gained a 
strong commercial development business 
in Wilson Bowden Developments. We are 
currently reviewing how this can create best 
value for the Group, including leveraging its 
capability on large scale mixed-use schemes.
Our performance and dividends
Our housebuilding business delivered strong 
completion growth, robust proﬁtability and a 
healthy margin over the last twelve months. 
Wilson Bowden Developments delivered 
a strong performance in line with market 
expectations. 
These were encouraging results against the 
backdrop of a year where we saw signiﬁcant 
increases in UK interest rates. To underpin 
returns in what is expected to be a more 
difﬁcult environment we will continue to drive 
revenue whilst focusing rigorously on cost 
control and sales management.
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 
24.30 pence per share (2006: 20.69 pence 
per share) for payment in November 2007. 
This will bring our full year dividend to 
35.68 pence per share and represents a 
15% year on year increase. This is in keeping 
with our progressive dividend policy of 
reducing, over time, our dividend cover to 
around 2.5 times.
The changing industry landscape
As well as changing economic conditions, this 
year has also seen signiﬁcant changes in the 
public policy outlook for housebuilders. 
The UK Government has made housing a key 
priority going forward and has set out an 
ambition to increase signiﬁcantly the supply 
of new housing both in the private and 
affordable sectors. To achieve this, further 
land will need to be made available together 
with reforms to the planning process. 
During the year the Ofﬁce of Fair Trading started 
an industry review focusing on customer 
service and the supply of new housing. 
The UK Government announced a target for 
new homes to be zero carbon by 2016. This 
will lead to very signiﬁcant changes in the way 
houses are constructed and supplied with 
energy. It is vital that the industry adjusts 
rapidly and we have already made considerable 
progress with various initiatives underway.
Safety remains a key priority for the Group. 
The tragic accident in Battersea in September 
2006 in which two people lost their lives, 
underlined the dangers of the work we 
undertake and our thoughts and deepest 
sympathies remain with the families of those 
killed in the incident. We continue to work 
closely with the Health and Safety Executive 
on the cause of the incident and are 
committed to ensuring the safety of the public 
and our employees remains paramount. 
Our people
To deliver such a strong performance against 
a background of rising interest rates and the 
completion of a signiﬁcant acquisition is a 
major achievement for the Group. It is a tribute 
to our Executive team and our employees, 
from both Barratt and Wilson Bowden, who 
have worked tirelessly with considerable skill 
to deliver these results. 
Chairman’s statement
This has been a historic year for Barratt Developments 
marked by very considerable change. Under a new 
Chief Executive, Mark Clare, we acquired Wilson 
Bowden which took us into the FTSE100. 
Whilst completing and rapidly integrating this major 
acquisition, we have delivered a robust operating 
performance against a backdrop of increasing UK 
interest rates. 05
Barratt Developments PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Group overview | Chairman’s statement
The underlying strength of the business is also
a tribute to David Pretty CBE our former Chief
Executive who retired in December. Geoff
Hester also retired from the Board in January
and we wish them both well in retirement.
The future
In the coming year the Group is likely to face a
more challenging market place as the impact
of increasing interest rates and mortgage
costs are felt. In addition there is more
uncertainty about the macroeconomic
outlook. By harnessing the capabilities of a
strengthened management team, we will focus
relentlessly on delivering beneﬁts from the
acquisition, driving down costs and running
the business to maximise shareholder value.
Charles Toner
Chairman
Barratt Developments PLC
26 September 2007
Top: The Forge, Ringmer; David Wilson Homes
Bottom: Bakers Mill regeneration project,
Great Cornard, Suffolk; Barratt
Group overview
To deliver such a strong
performance against
a background of rising
interest rates and the
completion of a
 is a major achievement
for the Group.
