 04
Barratt Developments 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
We have achieved satisfactory results for the year 
against the backdrop of a rapidly deteriorating UK 
housing market. With the successful renegotiation of 
our debt covenants, we have now strengthened our 
financial structure and have refocussed the business 
on clear priorities: sales delivery, cost efficiency and 
cash management to reduce debt. 
Group Chief Executive’s statement
“At the same time as 
focussing on current 
market conditions,  
as far as possible we  
will seek to protect  
the longer-term value 
creating qualities of  
the organisation.”
However, we saw an underlying reduction  
of around 5%, mainly in the last quarter of  
the year, as a result of pressure on prices  
and increased sales incentives. 
Declining volumes and prices were partially 
offset by underlying improvements in the 
efficiency of the Group. Wilson Bowden 
synergies of £33m were delivered against  
the target of £30m set for 2007/8 with  
a series of additional cost reduction 
programmes, put in place 18 months ago, 
delivering an additional £20m of cost 
savings. Whilst these improvements have 
reduced the impact of lower volume and 
selling prices, overall Group profit from 
operations before exceptional costs
1
,  
on a like-for-like
2
 basis, fell by 21.5% with  
an operating margin before exceptional  
costs
1
 of 15.5%. 
Tight control of land spend helped to reduce  
our net debt to £1.65bn at the end of the 
second half. However, as a prudent response  
to future market conditions, we have agreed 
with our banks and private placement note 
holders to amend our covenant package.  
In addition, we have recently signed a new 
three-year £400m facility and have reached 
Group overview
Our operational performance
After a relatively stable start to the financial 
year, we saw a sharp decline in the UK housing 
market following the well-publicised financial 
difficulties of Northern Rock. Whilst there  
was some recovery in our sales following 
Christmas, the fourth quarter was particularly 
challenging for the Group. Sales became 
extremely difficult in the traditionally strong 
spring selling season, with cancellation  
rates rising to 37.4% during the second  
half as a result of the severe rationing of 
mortgage finance. 
Total completions for the year, whilst up on  
a statutory basis, decreased on a like-for-like
2
 
basis by 13.8% to 18,588. However, the difficult 
trading conditions, particularly in the fourth 
quarter, have led to a more significant reduction 
in forward sales and we consequently expect 
lower completion volumes in 2008/9. At the 
year-end forward sales totalled £697.6m of 
which £538.7m was contracted.
The overall average selling prices of the 
properties sold increased by 6.0% as a result  
of continued changes in our product mix. 
1
  Exceptional costs comprise £208.4m of inventory write-downs, £24.5m goodwill impairment, intangible assets impairment  
of £6.2m and restructuring costs of £15.9m.
  05
Barratt Developments 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
agreement to extend £350m of our existing 
£400m revolving credit facility. These debt 
facilities do not mature until 2011. 
Competing in today’s market
With the successful refinancing of the business, 
a good deal of the uncertainty about our future 
has been removed. However, there is little 
prospect of an immediate housing market 
recovery as mortgage finance remains highly 
constrained. We have therefore put in place 
detailed plans to drive improved operational 
performance in the key areas of sales, costs 
and cash.
Improved sales delivery 
In current market conditions the effectiveness 
of the Group’s marketing and sales capability 
will have a significant impact on our business 
performance in terms of maximising revenue. 
We have put additional investment into sales 
training and site marketing. Both our major 
brands, David Wilson Homes and Barratt 
Homes, have been refreshed and there has 
been significant investment in our ‘online’ 
media activity. ‘New media’ marketing 
campaigns are currently driving circa 70%  
of sales leads and we expect this low-cost 
channel to continue to grow. 
New products aimed at helping our customers 
overcome the current barriers in the housing 
market have also been introduced. Shared-
equity products such as Dream Start and 
Head Start have proved particularly successful 
and we will continue to innovate in these areas. 
Part-exchange is an important sales channel  
in the current market. Our ability to sell 
second-hand products is a key determinant  
of the extent to which we can use this offering 
and last year we sold over 1,900 second-hand 
properties through our Oakleaf network. 
Reducing costs
Although we have made good progress on 
cost reduction, there is still considerable scope 
to improve the efficiency of the Group. Cost 
reduction programmes across the business 
are well established and are continuing  
to reduce construction and supply costs.  
We expect these programmes to deliver  
£40m of savings in 2008/9. 
We have introduced additional cost saving 
measures to take account of the further 
deterioration in the market. During July we 
announced that we would further rationalise our 
divisional structure, and together with savings  
in other divisions this has resulted in the loss  
of approximately 1,200 jobs. The vast majority 
of these people have now left the organisation. 
This rationalisation will bring the total number of 
divisions down from 44, at the time of the Wilson 
Bowden acquisition, to 26. These initiatives are 
likely to result in further savings of around £40m 
per annum, the majority of which will be delivered 
in 2008/9 at a cost of £15m. The structure, whilst 
much leaner, still provides us with nationwide 
coverage and the sound foundations for growth 
when the market picks up.
We also remain on track to deliver approximately 
£60m of annualised savings arising from the 
integration of Wilson Bowden during 2008/9.
Managing cash
Cash control will continue to be central to  
our objectives. Land spend in 2008/9 is likely  
to reduce to around £568m, almost all of  
which relates to contractual commitments –  
a reduction of £400m on 2007/8. Work in 
progress is being tightly controlled and we  
will continue to carefully match construction 
rates to projected sales rates. We will only start 
on new sites or new phases where we are 
confident of sales rates; so the number of sites 
will fall to an average of around 500 for 2008/9. 
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement
Main image: The ‘Beaudesert’ at Henley Point, Henley-in-Arden. Top right: Street scene at Eden Village, Sittingbourne.  
Bottom right: Fantastic natural stone elevations of the ‘Dumont’ at Fieldways, Paulton.
2
  ‘Like-for-like’ basis assumes that the acquisition of Wilson Bowden was completed on the first day of the comparative period. 
Wilson Bowden achieved 6,052 completions, revenue of £1,422.1m, operating profit of £219.2m, and a profit before tax of £191.7m 
in the twelve months ended 30 June 2007. Prior to acquisition, Wilson Bowden achieved 4,401 completions, revenue of £1,042.5m, 
operating profit of £165.3m (including £22.7m of exceptional costs) and profit before tax of £141.2m. 06
Barratt Developments 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
seek to protect the longer-term value creating 
qualities of the organisation. This means 
continuing to invest in our people, improving  
the quality of construction, safety standards, 
customer service and ensuring that we develop 
our products to meet customers’ preferences 
and changing regulatory requirements. 
The importance of our continued emphasis on 
safety and quality was underlined by the tragic 
death of a resident at the Azure development, 
Bedfont, caused, it appears, by carbon 
monoxide poisoning. Our sympathies lie very 
much with the families of those involved at this 
time. We are working with the relevant authorities 
to understand the full cause of the incident.
Investing in people
At the heart of our capability is a high quality 
and dedicated work force. Their skill and 
expertise has once again been demonstrated 
by winning 73 National House-Building 
Council (‘NHBC’) ‘Pride in the Job’ quality 
awards for the quality of our construction 
teams. This is the highest number of awards 
ever made to a single business in the  
26 year history of the scheme. It follows  
the unprecedented achievement of winning 
both of the NHBC Supreme Awards –  
the very highest construction awards for 
major housebuilders.
Driving up quality
We have continued to focus on driving up  
the quality of everything we do and improving 
customer satisfaction. Customer service 
must remain a high priority for the Group  
and against a background of considerable 
organisational change. The number of our 
customers that would ‘recommend us to 
Whilst we have a minimal exposure to large, 
owned tranches of strategic land and high  
rise flatted developments, we have incurred 
pre-tax write-downs to the value of land  
and work in progress of £208.4m of which 
£51.2m related to commercial developments.  
It is anticipated that a portion of these 
write-downs will enable the Group to release 
cash from work in progress more quickly.
We are progressing with the process to  
divest the assets from the Wilson Bowden 
Developments portfolio which have a potential 
cash value of around £200m. We hope to be 
able to move the majority of these through to 
completion over the next six to twelve months.
Long-term value
At the same time as focussing on current 
market conditions, as far as possible we will 
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement
> Reducing costs
  Group-wide programmes continue to reduce 
construction and supply costs and are expected  
to deliver £40m of savings in 2008/9.
>  Managing cash
  We are tightly controlling land and work  
in progress spend and will only start on new  
sites where we are confident of sales rates. 07
Barratt Developments 
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
a friend’ has remained at 88% (2007: 88%  
on a like-for-like
2
 basis).
We have seen significant improvement in  
the health and safety performance of the 
Group. The reportable injury incidence rate 
was 656 per 100,000 people employed –  
a reduction of 23.5% on the previous year. 
Product innovation
We continually review our product range to 
ensure that it meets customer and regulatory 
requirements. For example, our specialist 
regeneration skills have enabled us to continue to 
win large, high value development opportunities 
with limited cash outlay. Whilst it is inevitable  
that much needed regeneration of many areas 
will now be significantly slower as a result of 
market conditions, we continue to be well 
placed to compete when opportunities arise.
Part of our success in this area is due to the 
increasingly strong social and environmental 
credentials of the Group. These were further 
reinforced by the construction of the country’s 
first zero carbon code level six house by a major 
housebuilder and by winning the first English 
Partnerships Carbon Challenge. This will lead to 
the construction of the nation’s first zero carbon 
community at Hanham Hall, near Bristol.
Current trading and outlook
There remains considerable uncertainty  
about the near-term prospects for the sector 
with market recovery dependent on an 
improvement in the availability of mortgage 
finance and customer confidence. Whilst 
market conditions during the first two months 
of the new financial year have been broadly 
stable, they remain extremely challenging.  
In the last four weeks net private sales rates 
have been down around 30% on prior year. 
Pricing continues to be under pressure with 
higher incentive levels being required. Whilst 
we will deliver further cost savings during the 
year, we expect to see downward pressure 
on margins.
We will continue to focus on sales effectiveness, 
cost reduction and cash generation. When 
confidence returns, the enhanced capability 
and lower cost structure of our organisation 
will ensure that we are in a strong position  
to compete in the market and capitalise on 
available opportunities. 
Mark Clare 
Group Chief Executive
9 September 2008
Group overview | Group Chief Executive’s statement
>    Improved sales delivery
  Sales effectiveness using both our internet sites 
and traditional methods, such as the sales launch  
at Great West Quarter above, will help maximise 
our revenue.
>  Driving up quality
  Customer satisfaction is a high priority. The Healey 
family were so impressed by Lavender Grove that  
they persuaded twelve family and friends to move  
to our homes in Oakley Vale, Corby. 
