 In 2015, the first year of Drive for 2020,  
we delivered our strategic objectives; in 
addition, we exceeded £1bn of revenue 
for the first time in the Company’s history. 
This is notwithstanding the significant 
negative impact on our Pipe Protection 
Technologies (“PPT”) business of 
a sustained low oil price and the 
consequent impact on drilling activity. 
Continued delivery of balanced, 
profitable growth
In FY 2015, like-for-like revenue growth 
excluding PPT was 4.6%, and was 
supported by continued innovation, 
new business wins and investment in 
both existing and new geographical 
markets. However, with a c. 65% decline 
in PPT, total Group revenue increased 
to £1,098.1m, with like-for-like growth 
of 0.7%.
FY 2015 adjusted operating profit was 
ahead 20.3% (at constant exchange) to 
£171.5m. Excluding the significantly dilutive 
impact of the acquisition of Clondalkin 
Specialist Packaging Division (“SPD”), the 
adjusted operating margin was up 10bps 
(at both actual and constant exchange) 
at 16.6%: ex-PPT, the uplift was higher, 
at 80bps (+70bps at constant exchange). 
With only a modest increase in our 
financing costs resulting from higher net 
debt post the Clondalkin SPD transaction, 
and a further 210bps improvement in the 
tax rate, adjusted earnings per share (at 
constant exchange) increased by 12.6%.
During the year, we continued to invest in 
future revenue growth opportunities, with 
FY 2015 net capital expenditure of £54.8m. 
However, notwithstanding this spend, our 
cash generation remained good and our 
financial ratios strong, with net debt to 
EBITDA of 1.8x and interest cover of 17 .7x 
as at 31 December. Underpinned by this 
cash flow generation, we again confirmed 
our commitment to paying a progressive 
dividend, with a recommended 13.1% 
increase in the FY 2015 payout to 20.7p  
per share.
Consistent with our strategic objectives,  
we successfully completed a number  
of value-adding transactions which 
complemented the organic performance  
of the Company during the year. In 
Distribution, in February we announced 
that we had purchased Specialty Plastics, 
a leading Australian distributor of an 
extensive range of protective plastic 
products for a wide variety of attractive 
growth end-markets, including hydraulics, 
fabrication, construction and mining.
Separately, in Health & Personal Care 
Packaging, in January we completed  
the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD,  
a leading global provider of a broad  
suite of speciality secondary packaging 
solutions for the pharmaceutical, health 
and personal care industries. Valued at 
approximately US$455m, Clondalkin  
SPD is by far the largest transaction  
we have undertaken to date and we  
have made significant progress with  
the integration of the business this year. 
Indeed, at the HY 2015 results stage,  
we increased the target for potential 
synergy savings by 50% to at least 
US$24m on an annualised basis from  
2016, underscoring our confidence in 
rapidly enhancing Clondalkin SPD’s 
operating margin towards the Company 
average. Then, in October, we announced 
that we had signed an agreement to 
acquire the pharmaceutical packaging 
assets of Kamsri Printing & Packaging  
Pvt. Ltd. (“Kamsri”). Based in Bangalore, 
Kamsri is a leading manufacturer of 
premium packaging solutions for the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors  
in India and provides Essentra with an 
entry point into this attractive market, 
thereby reinforcing our global capabilities 
and enhancing the opportunities for our 
customers. As anticipated, the acquisition 
completed shortly after the year-end.
In 2015, we also continued our investment  
in our site footprint, as well as identified 
further opportunities for rationalisation  
and efficiency savings through adopting  
a more Company-wide approach to 
our manufacturing and distribution 
capabilities: as a result, 14 facilities 
were closed during the year. 
Our new, 23,000ft
2
 purpose-built 
distribution centre in Leduc, Canada  
is strategically located in Alberta and 
accommodates both our PPT and 
Components businesses, thereby 
consolidating our previous activities on  
the west coast. Meanwhile, we officially 
opened a 4,500m
2
 Components 
distribution centre in Paris, France to  
help support growth in this commercially 
significant market: already serving 12,000 
active customers from a range of c. 18,500 
essential components, this new facility 
– which consolidates our sales and 
distribution activities at a single site –  
will help to ensure that we provide our 
customers with an even better delivery  
and service proposition, and that we are 
optimally placed to meet their exacting 
product requirements. And in Sydney, 
Australia, our c. A$3m investment in a 
dedicated manufacturing and distribution 
facility entails a 400% increase in stock 
locations to leverage our global supply 
chain, with products from the new site 
serving customers in 16 countries across 
Europe, Asia, Australasia and the US.
Further to a comprehensive review  
of our global site footprint in Filter  
Products, we took the decision to close  
our Jarrow, UK manufacturing facility  
and to transfer the filter manufacturing, 
product development and innovation 
activities to Szigetszentmiklós, Hungary. 
Indeed, as an innovator and complete 
solutions provider to the tobacco industry,  
it is essential that Essentra continues to 
identify evolving market trends and 
respond to them in a way that enables  
us to continue to add value to our 
customers. In Europe, these trends  
reflect the continued shift in consumer 
demand from mature western countries  
to the more dynamic, developing markets 
in eastern Europe. Over the past ten years, 
cigarette sales volume in western Europe 
has declined by almost 30%, with the 
tobacco companies supplied by Essentra 
responding to this trend by relocating their 
own manufacturing footprint to central 
and eastern Europe. Indeed, only a tiny 
percentage of the filter production at  
our Jarrow facility was destined for the 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW domestic UK market. As such, and by 
aligning with the strategies and footprint  
of our customers in the most efficient 
way possible, the transfer of activities 
to Hungary will help to underpin our 
long-term position as the leading global 
independent supplier of filter products and 
related services to the tobacco industry.
Additionally, we took the opportunity  
of consolidating certain of our smaller  
sites in the UK into larger, better-equipped 
existing facilities. As a result, we 
transferred our Speciality Tapes activities 
to our packaging site in Nottingham and 
our Security operations to our European 
distribution hub in Kidlington; further  
to this relocation, the facilities in 
Bridlington and Banbury were closed. 
Drive for 2020 in action
In last year’s Annual Report – which 
followed almost immediately after  
the completion of our acquisition of 
Clondalkin SPD – we commented that  
the diversification of Essentra’s business 
activities into health and personal care 
packaging since 2013 represented the sort 
of bold thinking entailed by our Drive for 
2020 strategy which is required to deliver 
the next phase of the Company’s growth. 
And while the integration of Clondalkin  
SPD is still in hand – and there are naturally 
things we can continue to improve upon  
in our “core” business as well – nonetheless, 
the evolution of our Health & Personal Care 
Packaging SBU during 2015 provides some 
compelling examples of our Drive for 2020 
strategic objectives in action and, 
accordingly, our relentless drive to deliver 
long-term value to our shareholders.
Having completed the transaction on 30 
January 2015, we welcomed our Clondalkin 
SPD colleagues through an extensive day 
one on-site communication programme, 
co-ordinated across 24 sites in six countries 
in Europe and North America. Thereafter, 
and benefiting from our own experience 
in 2013, we rapidly rebranded the acquired 
business to Essentra within 60 days –  
from signage and workwear to office 
consumables and IT platforms – with 
formal customer and legal entity  
change taking place three months later. 
Accordingly, with the transaction taking 
Essentra from a leading European player 
to the global number two in specialist 
health and personal care secondary 
packaging, we made a good start in terms 
of integrating our activities and leveraging 
our combined scale and skills under a 
single Essentra brand.
 
Given the responsibility of the SBUs  
to identify market trends and drive 
product innovation and range 
development, during the year we further 
enhanced our go-to-market efforts 
by category and, thus, increased our 
relevance and market penetration. 
Underpinning this was the agreement and 
communication of a strategic plan in 
Health & Personal Care Packaging across 
all geographic regions, behind a common 
set of objectives and criteria, and based on 
detailed industry insight. The commercial 
teams were provided with newly-created, 
Essentra-branded product sample kits 
and literature, highlighting the breadth 
of solutions that the Group can provide 
to meet the exacting requirements of 
multi-national customers in these sectors 
– from regulatory-compliant product 
leaflets to authentication and tamper-
evident brand protection technologies. 
These efforts have been particularly 
important in the personal care and beauty 
space, in which the Clondalkin SPD 
acquisition significantly increased our 
exposure and where customers are not 
only focused on the practical attributes – 
but also the aesthetic qualities – of the 
components which form an intrinsic part 
of their overall brand proposition to 
consumers. In response to this demand, 
we have flexed the look and feel of our 
offering and communication, to better 
reinforce Essentra’s capabilities in the field 
of prestige packaging components – from 
flared and embossed folding cartons to 
sophisticated printing capabilities. 
Over the last couple of years, we have 
communicated our efforts to operate in 
a more co-ordinated fashion across the 
Essentra Group and how our rebranding 
has facilitated this objective. During 
the year, we further built upon these 
foundations, and the adoption of our 
matrix organisational structure has 
demonstrated the opportunities which 
are still available to Essentra in terms 
of realising our Drive for 2020 strategic 
objectives – notwithstanding the 
improvement we delivered over  
the course of Vision 2015.
However, it is the operational aspect that 
has represented the heaviest lifting, and 
we are pleased with the progress in 2015 
– both in terms of creating an efficient 
manufacturing footprint and the delivery 
of synergy savings. Indeed, having acquired 
24 sites, we have either closed (or are in 
the process of closing) nine in the US, UK, 
Ireland and the Netherlands – with a view 
to either consolidating them into the 
Essentra footprint or other Clondalkin 
SPD facilities. A notable case in point is 
in Newport where, having already opened 
a state-of-the-art labels and foils site in 
2014, our additional multi-million pound 
investment in an adjacent facility will 
receive the business of four smaller, 
capacity-constrained sites and will 
transform this combined location into a 
genuine centre of excellence, not only for 
our customers but also for our employees. 
Indeed, having held a recruitment Open 
Day in September for in excess of 100 
roles which will be created as a result 
of our expansion, we were very pleased 
that some 250 people visited us to find 
out more about the exciting career 
opportunities which Essentra is looking 
to provide at this new site. We were 
equally encouraged by the feedback we 
received from those who already work  
in the printing and packaging industry,  
in terms of the calibre of our location  
and the working environment we can 
provide there. Accordingly, through 
creating centres of manufacturing 
excellence, we firmly believe that this  
will ensure that Essentra is optimally 
positioned to provide a market-leading 
product range and superior service level  
to our customers from a site footprint 
based on future growth opportunities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Evolving our organisational  
structure for even greater focus
2015 represented the first full year 
of the implementation of our matrix 
organisational structure, with the grouping 
of our activities into the three geographic 
regions of Europe, Americas and Asia 
supplementing our SBUs. And while there 
are naturally aspects we can improve upon 
to ensure more seamless interaction across 
the Company, we are already seeing 
tangible benefits. For example, in Europe, 
further to operational challenges arising 
from winning more orders than we could 
profitably fulfil, we have developed and 
implemented best practice processes 
and procedures for the onboarding of 
new health and personal care packaging 
business which have been adopted 
throughout the Group. Meanwhile, in the 
Americas, we successfully leveraged the 
Essentra offering and technologies with a 
key writing instrument customer to exploit 
category selling opportunities, securing 
business not only in our traditional 
reservoir and nib offering, but also with 
speciality wipes and extruded plastic. 
Finally, in Asia, the regional structure 
facilitated the very rapid integration of 
the major operating subsidiaries of Abric 
Berhad (“Abric Seals”) into the Essentra 
footprint and product range, such that 
the acquired business was fully rebranded 
and integrated within the space of 
four months. 
Having had the opportunity of reviewing 
the structure in action – and also taking 
into account the impact of the acquisition 
of Clondalkin SPD – the Board and the 
Group Management Committee (“GMC”) 
have taken the decision to further evolve 
the SBUs, to provide even greater focus 
to the organisation. As a result, with effect 
from 1 January 2016, we are operating with 
three: Health & Personal Care Packaging, 
Component Solutions and Filtration 
Products. In respect of the former, this 
will now see our pharmaceutical, health 
& personal care and consumer goods 
packaging activities grouped with 
Speciality Tapes, which shares many 
common features in terms of 
manufacturing process and footprint – 
not least since the afore mentioned 
relocation of manufacturing to 
Nottingham. Component Solutions will 
comprise Components, PPT, Extrusion and 
Security – each of which serves customers 
in light and heavy industry – while our 
Filter Products and Porous Technologies 
businesses will combine to form the 
Filtration Products SBU, as they share 
many common raw material and 
production processes.
Talent
At all levels, our employees are a vital 
resource in the Company’s pursuit  
of operational excellence and the  
provision of quality products and  
services to our customers.
Indeed, as an international organisation,  
it is important that we attract an 
appropriate level of local talent and 
enhance mobility through increasing 
cross-divisional moves. In this respect,  
we made further progress during the year, 
both in terms of developing our existing 
employees as well as adding to our talent 
base from outside the Company and 
through recent acquisitions.
At Board level, and consistent  
with the Company’s comprehensive 
succession planning, Stefan Schellinger 
was appointed to the position of Group 
Finance Director. Having joined Essentra 
in 2013 as Corporate Development 
Director, Stefan combines excellent 
financial and leadership skills with an 
outstanding track record of strategic  
and corporate development. Stefan’s 
appointment to the role followed the 
resignation of Matthew Gregory who, 
following a successful twelve-year career  
with Essentra, left to pursue an 
opportunity outside the Company.
Having introduced assessment-based 
Leadership Development Centres (“LDC”) 
in 2014, a total of 89 colleagues across all 
geographical regions have now attended, 
with three management development 
programmes covering coaching, 
influencing skills and performance 
management being launched at the  
end of the year in response to the LDC 
findings. In addition, a set of behavioural 
competencies was finalised, clearly 
articulating what is expected of our  
people at all levels of the organisation, 
which will be used to drive performance 
management further in 2016. 
The Essentra Graduate Development 
Programme enjoyed further success in 
2015. The two-year graduate programme 
has provided a talent pipeline for a 
number of years and, in 2015, 19 people 
joined the scheme, which continues to 
expand its international reach. The 2015 
intake will join the 21 graduates recruited 
in 2014, and will have the opportunity to 
develop their management skills through 
bespoke training which takes place around 
Essentra’s sites, giving graduates exposure 
to the business while carrying out an 
operational role from day one. Separately, 
in December, the 2013 graduate intake 
completed their programme, with a 
number of successful presentations hosted 
in Kidlington. Representatives from senior 
management were invited to watch the 
graduate teams drawn from across 
functions and geographies present 
on projects focusing on “Global Key 
Account Management” and “How to 
Improve Stakeholder Perceptions for 
Revenue Generation” .
The Board and the GMC are committed 
to ensuring that Essentra is a great place 
to work and that we continue to improve 
as an organisation. Having undertaken 
our second Group-wide employee 
engagement survey in December 2014, 
action plans responding to the feedback 
were developed and implemented during 
the course of 2015. For example, in the 
Americas region, employee communication 
and recognition initiatives have been 
improved at Erie, Richmond and 
Greensboro in the US, and in Brazil. 
Meanwhile, in Asia, there has been a focus 
on employee training and development, 
including aspects such as new product 
awareness in Korea, job enrichment at 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM
8
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW the Filter Products joint venture site in 
India and supervisory skills in Thailand. 
Finally, in Europe, there has been a focus 
on improved communications and 
performance development reviews across 
a number of sites including Cervia and 
Piacenza in Italy, as well as in Finland 
and Sweden. 
These action plans will continue to be 
monitored and reviewed, and we intend 
to launch our third engagement survey 
during the course of 2016. 
Further to the appointment of a new 
Chief Information Officer to the Group 
Leadership Team last year, in 2015 we 
made further progress in terms of 
addressing the growing Information 
Technology risks which all companies face 
in the cyber security domain. In addition, 
and consistent with our Drive for 2020 
objective of Integration, we deployed a 
standard set of policies and controls across 
the Group behind a harmonised central IT 
platform – Standard Desktop, an industry-
leading, best-in-class solution – which has 
also provided us with enhanced, more 
seamless global collaboration capabilities. 
Continuing to build on our track record 
in health and safety
Essentra’s overriding concern in the 
workplace continues to be the health, 
safety and welfare of all its employees  
and those who visit the Company’s 
locations, as well as those who carry 
out work on our behalf.
In 2015, the regional leadership 
structure continued to help drive further 
improvements in the HSE standards which 
the Company has already achieved. 
Indeed, the Group-wide HSE management 
system and Stop, Think, Evaluate, Proceed 
(“STEP”) shop floor programme which was 
rolled out in 2014 has already resulted in an 
improvement in performance and better 
engagement and reporting of HSE issues. 
As a result, such initiatives, which focus 
on risk identification – as opposed to mere 
accident reporting – have led to a further 
reduction in our lost-time accident rate. 
Reinforcing the importance of HSE to the 
Company, we are expanding the annual 
Safety, Health, Environment & Quality 
Awards programme, the objective of which 
is to recognise employees and facilities that 
have achieved – or are progressing towards 
– world-class levels of HSE performance, 
including the development, sustainment 
and continuous improvement of a positive 
and supportive culture. Going forward, 
there will be five award categories: 
Certificate of Operational Safety 
Performance; Health & Safety Best 
Practice Project and Improvement Award; 
Environmental & Social Responsibility 
Award; Quality Best Practice & 
Improvement Award; and Safety, Health, 
Environment & Quality Champion Award.
As Essentra continues to increase in size – 
both organically and via acquisition –  
and the global legislative backdrop for HSE 
continues to change apace, the Board and 
the GMC are convinced that our regional 
structure will allow the Company to make 
continuous improvement, to benefit from 
local expertise and to share best practice 
around the organisation in this critical area.
Reinforcing our responsibilities
Essentra is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and 
responsibility, to ensure that the way in 
which we manage our activities reflects 
the expectations of all the Company’s 
stakeholders. As a member of both the 
FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust,  
we recognise that our interaction with 
the environment and local communities 
is a critical component of the international 
reputation and quality of Essentra’s 
businesses, as well as a cornerstone of 
developing a responsible, progressive  
and winning culture.
All our principal manufacturing facilities 
hold the ISO 14001 environmental 
accreditation and, with the exception 
of recently acquired sites (which, as 
per Essentra policy, have a period of 24 
months to reach the required standard), 
they have also achieved the Occupational 
Health & Safety Management Systems 
OHSAS 18001. In addition, eleven sites 
gained ISO 50001 during the year. 
Attaining the ISO 50001 energy 
management standard at all our 
manufacturing facilities is a key objective 
and, consistent with our target, we are 
on track to meet the more stringent 
conditions required to gain a single 
Group-wide certificate by the end of 2016.
Essentra is committed to efficiency  
in all aspects of our organisation, and we 
have further reduced the environmental 
impact of our business in other aspects, 
with our “War on Waste” initiative 
continuing to deliver better utilisation – 
and reuse – of raw materials across 
the Company.
Summary 
Essentra made a solid start to our Drive  
for 2020 strategy notwithstanding the 
challenging environment in the oil &  
gas industry. We also made encouraging 
progress with the integration of the 
Clondalkin SPD, over and above which 
acquisition rationalisation we consolidated 
a further five facilities across the Group, to 
better leverage our footprint and generate 
further opportunities for efficiency savings. 
In delivering these results, I would  
like to acknowledge the efforts of all our 
employees, and to thank them for their 
commitment and dedication to Essentra’s 
continued growth and development.
Outlook
In an environment where economic  
growth is by no means well established  
or uniform – not least in the oil & gas 
sector – we are nonetheless confident 
of delivering balanced profitable growth 
in 2016, due to our international footprint 
and diverse range of products and 
end-markets.
COLIN DAY 
Chief Executive
19 February 2016
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM STRATEGIC REPORT | 
9
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
