 02 Barratt Developments PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group overview
availability of financial credit quickly became  
a full scale international recession. 
The housing market in Britain was particularly 
hard hit during the first half of the Group’s 
financial year as deteriorating economic 
conditions were coupled with rapidly declining 
customer confidence and severe constraints 
on the availability of mortgage finance. In 
particular, the withdrawal by lenders of many 
higher loan to value mortgages has significantly 
affected the first time buyer market. 
House prices across Britain, including for the 
new build sector, fell sharply. For the Group, 
this was most acutely felt towards the end of 
the 2008 calendar year as it sought to reduce 
stock levels in a difficult market. 
During the second half of the financial year, 
sales prices began to show some signs of 
stabilisation reflecting historically low interest 
rates and a more limited supply of housing in 
both the second hand and new build market. 
The position, however, remains fragile with 
limited visibility; a sustained recovery of 
volumes and prices will depend on the 
improved availability of mortgage finance. 
The Group’s response
Responding to the dramatic decline of the 
market has been an immense challenge for 
the Group. In July and August 2008, the 
Group arranged a refinancing and amended 
its financial covenants. Sharp reductions  
in selling prices in the autumn led to an 
impairment of £499.5m against the value  
of land and work in progress during the  
year, of which £494.9m was recognised  
at the half year.
With prices reset across the business in 
January 2009, the Group has been able to 
improve sales rates to reduce stock levels 
further, enabling it to manage its working 
capital more efficiently.
The combination of this tight control of  
work in progress and sales generation has 
contributed to the reduction in the Group’s  
net debt by £373.7m over the course of the 
financial year to £1,276.9m at 30 June 2009. 
Against this backdrop, the Group has 
continued to focus on the clear set of priorities 
already established of driving sales, reducing 
costs and generating cash with the objective 
of reducing debt. The Group has made good 
progress in all these areas. 
At the same time, the Group has sought to 
ensure that it has the capability to respond to 
any recovery in the market. The initial signs of 
stabilisation seen at the start of 2009 have 
continued, underpinned by a greater degree 
of price stabilisation and improved customer 
sentiment. The Group has seen higher sales 
rates, fewer cancellations and levelling of 
prices. The Group does not, however, expect 
to see a sustained improvement in trading 
conditions until the availability of mortgage 
finance improves further. 
The housing market
During the financial year the magnitude of  
the economic downturn became apparent. 
What started as a sharp contraction in the 
This has been an immensely difficult year for the 
housebuilding sector with the industry experiencing a 
material and sudden fall off in customer demand driven 
by a structural change in the availability and terms of 
mortgage finance, decline in house prices and a loss of 
consumer confidence in light of the prevailing economic 
uncertainty. As a result, the Group, along with other 
housebuilders, experienced a significant fall in both the 
volume and value of the homes that it sold. 
Chairman’s statement Barratt Developments PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 03
Group overview | Chairman’s statement
Cost reduction has also continued to be a 
priority. Whilst many of the savings the Group 
has generated have come through reductions 
in supplier and employee costs, structural 
changes in the Group’s cost base have also 
been achieved through actions such as  
the closure of operating divisions. The  
Group is now a more efficient organisation, 
positioning it better to respond when 
customer demand increases.
I recognise that many of the decisions that  
the Group has made in the year have 
adversely affected its employees; whilst  
that is something I very much regret it was 
necessary to ensure that the Group protected 
its core business during the downturn. 
I remain immensely impressed by the Group’s 
people who are dedicated to achieving 
excellence in the housebuilding industry.  
Their determination during these exceptionally 
difficult economic circumstances is a great 
credit to them. The Board is hugely 
appreciative that the Group’s employees have 
worked so hard to meet the demands placed 
upon them in these challenging times.
Corporate responsibility
The Board remains committed to the 
principles of corporate responsibility and 
despite the downturn in the market, it remains 
convinced that responsible business practices 
are fundamental to the future success of the 
Group. The Group is pleased that it has been 
able to progress its corporate responsibility 
strategies in the key areas of health and 
safety, the environment, customer care, 
employees and the communities where  
it works as part of the normal day-to-day 
business operations of the Group, and 
expects that this will position the Group better 
to respond to any recovery in the market.
Board
It was with regret that, in January this year, the 
Group announced that Mark Pain, the Group 
Finance Director, had decided to step down 
from the Board. Mark served the Company 
with distinction and the Board wish him well 
with his future career. 
His successor, David Thomas, who joined 
the Group in July 2009 from his combined 
role as Deputy Chief Executive and Finance 
Director at The GAME Group plc, is an 
extremely able replacement and I am 
delighted that the Company has been able to 
attract a Group Finance Director of his calibre.
After seven years on the Board, Michael 
Pescod stepped down in December 2008 
and the Board is particularly grateful for his 
wise counsel during his tenure, latterly as the 
Senior Independent Director. This role has 
been assumed by Bob Davies who originally 
joined the Board in May 2004. The Company 
is also pleased to welcome to the Board 
Tessa Bamford whose appointment as a 
Non-Executive Director was announced  
on 30 June 2009. The Board expects  
her experience in finance and business 
development to be a great asset to the Group.
Dividend
The Board suspended dividend payments in 
June 2008 as part of its cash conservation 
policy. The Board remains focused on 
strengthening the balance sheet and 
conserving cash. The existing terms of  
the Group’s committed bank facilities and 
private placement notes impose certain 
restrictions on the payment of dividends.  
In light of these restrictions no final dividend 
will be paid in respect of the financial year 
ended 30 June 2009. 
The Board is committed to reinstating the 
payment of dividends and will do so when it 
becomes appropriate and permissible to do so.
Priorities
Barratt Developments PLC aspires to be the 
leading housebuilder in Britain with a focus 
on efficient production, sales and marketing, 
land and planning, becoming the partner of 
choice and the quality of its people. 
Despite the difficult economic backdrop the 
Group is continuing to invest in these key 
areas. There are tangible results being 
achieved most notably that the Group is the 
only national volume housebuilder to be 
credited as Four Star in the Home Builders 
Federation 4th annual customer satisfaction 
survey. In terms of construction excellence, 
the Group had another year of outstanding 
achievement in the National House-Building 
Council ‘Pride In The Job’ quality awards. 
Whilst the timing and extent of any market 
recovery remain uncertain, these strengths 
and the reduced cost base now in place will 
enhance the Group’s ability to take advantage 
of any such recovery.
Proposed Placing and Rights Issue
The Board is today announcing a fully 
underwritten Placing and Rights Issue to  
raise gross proceeds of approximately  
£720m, together with amended financing 
arrangements which will come into effect 
upon successful completion of the Placing 
and Rights Issue. The Directors expect the 
Placing and Rights Issue will substantially 
strengthen the Group’s balance sheet and 
reduce financial indebtedness. The proceeds 
raised will enable the Group to develop its 
existing sites and better position it to take 
advantage of appropriate land purchasing 
opportunities. The amended financing 
arrangements are expected to allow the 
Group to take advantage of opportunities that 
may arise in a recovering market, as well as to 
provide an appropriate alternative framework, 
should a further downturn arise. 
Bob Lawson, Chairman
23 September 2009
