 Dear Shareholder,
As previously announced, following 
ten years of service, I shall be retiring 
at the 2016 AGM as Chairman of the 
Board and a Non-Executive Director. 
I was appointed in 2005 when Essentra 
first listed as an independent company,  
and over the course of my tenure I 
have seen the Company grow and 
strengthen significantly. I am pleased 
to report that I will be leaving an 
experienced Board under the 
stewardship of Paul Lester.
During my time as Chairman, I have visited 
numerous sites around the world and had 
the opportunity to meet many of our 
employees, and have consistently been 
impressed by the dedication, commitment 
and enthusiasm of my Essentra colleagues.
2015 saw the completion of a number of 
value-creating acquisitions, most notably 
that of the Clondalkin Specialist Packaging 
Division which significantly increases the 
Group’s position in the specialist secondary 
packaging market for the pharmaceutical, 
health and personal care industries.  
I would like to take this opportunity of 
formally welcoming all new employees  
to the Essentra Group. These acquisitions 
have already been successfully integrated, 
and have enabled Essentra to continue  
to expand its geographical footprint and 
enter new – or improve its penetration of 
existing – targeted end-markets, including 
the US, the Netherlands, Spain and Poland 
in healthcare packaging, Malaysia and 
Thailand in security seals and Australia  
in components.
In its first year of Drive for 2020, it is 
disappointing that the performance of  
the overall Group has been significantly 
impacted by downturn in the global oil 
& gas industry, with a sustained low oil price 
– and the consequent effect on drilling 
activity – having a materially negative 
impact on the performance of our PPT 
business. Indeed, having visited the opening 
of our new, state-of-the-art headquarters 
in Houston in 2012, I have seen first-hand 
the excellence of the site and its hard-
working employees, and I would like to pay 
tribute to the resilience of the entire team 
in securing business wherever possible in 
a very challenging environment. 
During the year, two new Non-Executive 
Directors were appointed, firstly Tommy 
Breen in April and latterly Paul Lester 
as Chairman Designate in December, 
both of whom bring a wealth of experience 
to Essentra, gained across a number of 
different industries and in increasingly 
senior strategic and operational roles. In 
addition, and consistent with the Group’s 
succession planning, Stefan Schellinger was 
appointed to the position of Group Finance 
Director in October; Stefan joined Essentra 
in 2013 as Corporate Development Director, 
in which role he was responsible for 
developing Essentra’s corporate strategy, 
including leading the Company’s mergers 
and acquisitions activity and successfully 
completing a number of transactions. 
Given the number of changes to the 
composition of the Board in 2015 – and the 
prospective change in Chairman – it was 
not considered appropriate to commission 
a Board evaluation during the year.
I strongly believe that good governance 
is founded on the core values and  
behaviours established by the Board and 
communicated throughout the Group. 
Essentra continues to promote a strong 
culture of the highest standards of business 
ethics, based on clear principles. The Board’s 
participation in the Company’s compliance 
training programmes, and its commitment 
to the development of new governance 
policies and practices, serves to ensure that 
such standards are clearly understood and 
reinforced by the “tone from the top” .
The continuing strong compliance 
programme helps to reassure the Board 
that, as Essentra continues to grow in 
size and complexity, we have in place the 
appropriate people, culture and processes 
to fully exploit the opportunities for further 
balanced, profitable growth which are 
available, and to mitigate effectively the 
risks to which the Company is exposed.
We have made a solid start to Drive for 
2020, and I am confident that the Board 
will continue to focus on the successful 
execution of Essentra’s strategic objectives 
in 2016 and beyond. While the afore 
mentioned challenges in the oil & gas 
industry resulted in a c. £30m decline in 
revenue – and material reduction in 
operating margin – for our PPT business, the 
Group has nonetheless delivered balanced, 
profitable organic growth, complemented 
by value-adding acquisitions in 2015. Indeed, 
the Board’s confidence in the resilience and 
prospects of the Company is underscored 
by the recommended 13% increase in the 
dividend per share – consistent with 
Essentra’s commitment to paying a 
progressive dividend to shareholders.
JEFF HARRIS
Chairman 
19 February 2016
46
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.ESSENTRAPLC.COM DIRECTORS’ REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD’S LETTER
