 An improving market
The UK housing market has continued to recover with  
strength now being seen in all regions. Mortgage lending  
has improved and the Government’s Help to Buy scheme  
has had a positive effect in increasing the construction  
and sale of new housing. 
We were particularly pleased to see that in March, the Help to 
Buy (Equity Loan) scheme due to finish in 2016 was extended  
to 2020. This provides the industry with more continuity,  
an important consideration given the investment timescales 
involved in buying and developing land. 
The varied rates of recovery across different regions of the UK 
have been challenging for policy makers. In this context, the 
measures introduced by the Bank of England in June to limit 
high loan to value lending appear well targeted. 
We welcome a policy environment that provides greater  
stability in the longer term, which enables us to drive  
sustainable improvements in our returns.
An improved operating performance
During the year we have continued to benefit from the substantial 
improvements we have made to our operating performance. 
Acquiring land suitable for development on the right terms is  
the fundamental building block of our business. Whilst the land 
market has become more competitive, in particular in the South 
East, the quality and disciplined approach of our land teams 
means that high margin land in attractive locations continues  
to be secured. The new sites already in production are 
exceeding our target returns.
There is no doubt that increasing volumes across the industry 
have put pressures on our supply chain. I am pleased that the 
long term relationships with our suppliers have ensured that we 
have been able to work through these issues with little disruption 
to our business. 
At the same time, operating costs remain under control with a 
continued focus on process improvement, driven by the cost 
advantages of our centralised procurement systems, 
standardised build processes and IT systems.
Building quality homes
During the year we have increased our focus on design and the 
quality of the homes that we build. The Board believes that this 
customer-first ethos provides a competitive edge in terms of 
customer preference and pricing, whilst driving out costs 
resulting from poor build quality. 
For the tenth successive year the National House-Building 
Council (‘NHBC’) has awarded our site managers more Pride in 
the Job Awards than any other housebuilder. We are the only 
This has been a year of outstanding 
progress for the Group. In addition  
to stronger market conditions, we  
have benefitted from the underlying 
improvements we have embedded  
in the business. 
As a result, our profitability
1
 has  
more than doubled, we have hit  
our return on capital target two  
years early and have improved  
our margins significantly. 
Ordinary dividend
10.3 pence
per share (2013: 2.5 pence)
1 Profit before tax £390.6m (2013: £192.0m before exceptional items)
Capital Return Plan
£950m
over three years ending November 2017  
based on consensus earnings
6 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
A year of outstanding progress
Chairman’s Statement major housebuilder to achieve the Home Builders Federation 
(‘HBF’) Five Star recommendation from customers for five 
consecutive years. 
We are committed to Building for Life 12, the new Government 
endorsed design standard.
Our employees
The recent progress of the Group could not have been 
achieved without the talent and hard work of our employees. 
On behalf of the Board, I wish to thank our employees for their 
efforts that underpin the quality, the safety and the success of 
our operations. We are committed to continuing the investment 
in the development of our people, which is at the heart of 
creating a great place to work.
Improving returns and the Capital Return Plan
ROCE is an important performance metric for our business  
and our initial target of 18% ROCE for FY16 has been achieved 
two years early. The Board has therefore set a new target of  
at least 25% for FY17 and, following recent consultation with 
shareholders, ROCE performance has now been linked to  
the Executive Long Term Performance Plan.
Looking at the medium term plan for the Group, with a backdrop 
of controlled volume growth, we expect to substantially increase 
cash generation. Whilst we will continue our disciplined approach 
to investing in high quality land opportunities and targeting 
minimal year end net debt, we believe it is now appropriate  
to supplement our ordinary dividend payments. The Board is 
therefore pleased to announce a medium term Capital Return 
Plan that will combine the ordinary dividend, which will continue 
to be based on the dividend being three times covered by 
earnings, together with a special cash payment programme.
Under the special cash payment programme we anticipate 
proposing a special cash payment with our FY15 results of 
£100m payable in November 2015, followed by a special cash 
payment of £125m proposed with our FY16 results payable in 
November 2016, and a special cash payment of £175m 
proposed with our FY17 results payable in November 2017 . We 
will consider the best mechanism to effect the special cash 
payment programme such as using a B-class share scheme or 
a special dividend.
We therefore expect to return around £950m of cash  
through ordinary
B
 dividend and special cash payments to our 
shareholders in the next three years, which equates to a total  
of 96 pence per share based upon 30 June 2014 share capital.
As the first payment in the Capital Return Plan, the Board 
proposes a final ordinary dividend of 7 . 1 pence per share payable 
in November 2014, which combined with the interim dividend of 
3.2 pence per share, gives a total dividend for FY14 of 10.3 pence 
per share. The dividend is covered three times by earnings, 
achieving our target for FY16 two years ahead of schedule.
Capital Return Plan – 
Proposed payments
Ordinary 
dividend 
£m
Special 
cash 
payment 
£m
Total 
£m
Total 
pence  
per  
share
November 2014 70
A
– 70 7.1
A
Year to November 2015 138
B,C
100 238 24.2
C
Year to November 2016 164
B,C
125 289 29.3
C
Year to November 2017 178
B,C
175 353 35.8
C
Total
D
550 400 950 96.4
C
A  Proposed final dividend of 7 .1p per share as announced on 10 September 2014.
B  Based on Reuters consensus estimates of earnings per share of 42.3p for FY15, 50.2p for FY16 
and 54.2p for FY17 as at 8 September 2014 and applying a three times dividend cover in line 
with previously announced policy.
C Based upon 30 June 2014 share capital of 984,983,475 shares.
D  All final dividends and the special cash payment programme are subject to shareholder 
approval. The first special cash payment will be subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting in November 2015 and subsequent special cash payments will be subject  
to shareholder approval.
The Board
The Board has set out a clear strategy for the future development 
of the Group and this is being successfully implemented by the 
Executive team. After six years as Chairman I will step down from 
the Board at the Company’s AGM. 
I am grateful for the contribution of my Board colleagues in 
developing the Group’s strategy through market conditions that 
were challenging and are now improving. They have consistently 
supplied the right degree of support and challenge.
For the next stage of the Group’s development, the Board has 
recruited an outstanding new Chairman, John Allan CBE. He 
joined the Board on 1 August 2014 and I wish him and the 
Board well for the future.
Bob Lawson
Chairman
9 September 2014
I am delighted to be joining the Board as Chairman Designate 
of the country’s leading housebuilder. Bob Lawson, who is 
retiring as Chairman, has led the Company with distinction  
for the last six years in difficult market conditions; his wise 
counsel will be greatly missed. He leaves with the business 
performing well, where profitability and return on capital are 
rising, and the balance sheet is strong. I look forward to 
supporting the management team in further developing  
our strategy and performance.
John Allan CBE
Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate
Welcome to the new Chairman Designate
7 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Other Information Financial Statements
