 Our vision is to lead the future of housebuilding by putting 
customers at the heart of everything we do.
Delivering 
sustainable 
shareholder 
value
Keeping  
people safe
Being a trusted 
partner
Building strong 
community 
relationships
Safeguarding 
 
the environment
Ensuring the 
ﬁnancial health 
 
of our business
Our 
priorities
Our  
principles
Customer ﬁrst
Investing in 
 
our people
Great places
Building 
excellence
We have achieved considerable progress in building profitability 
and driving ROCE 
1
. Profitability has more than doubled to 
£390.6m (2013: £192.0m before exceptional items) and we 
achieved a ROCE of 19.5%, exceeding our target of 18% two 
years ahead of schedule. A continued focus on both profitability 
and ROCE will maximise sustainable shareholder value.
The stronger market conditions have resulted in a significant 
increase in activity levels and we have been particularly focused 
on maintaining discipline and control through every aspect of 
the business. We have strengthened our Balance Sheet, ending 
the year with a net cash balance of £73. 1m (2013: £25.9m net 
debt) – the first time we have been in a year end net cash 
position for eight years.
During the year we have also continued to identify and 
implement operational improvements that will further  
enhance our future performance.
 
Our performance
Building profitability
The very substantial increase in profitability has been driven  
by our land investment strategy, the efficiency of our business 
model and the prices we have achieved for the outstanding 
homes we have built.
Land investment 
Since re-entering the land market in 2009, we have approved 
the purchase of £3.8bn of land. All land approvals must meet 
our minimum hurdle rates of a 20% gross margin and 25% 
ROCE 
2
 without assuming price inflation. During the year, returns 
on newly acquired land exceeded these minimum hurdle rates. 
The transformation of our land bank from older low margin land 
to newly acquired high margin land is progressing well. In 2014, 
65% (2013: 49%) of completions were from newly acquired high 
margin land and this will increase in FY15, underpinning further 
improvements in financial performance. We expect 95% of all 
completions to be from new land for FY17 and that the Group 
gross margin will be a minimum of 20%.
Driving value 
During the year, private average selling price increased by 12.9% 
from £213,900 to £241,600. This reflects our strategy of changing 
the mix of homes we sell and ensuring we maximise value 
coupled with house price inflation of around 5% for the year. 
We are continuing to focus on carefully matching the type  
and style of homes we build to local demand conditions.  
We have traded very well throughout  
the year on the back of stronger market 
conditions in all parts of the country, our 
substantial land investments over the last 
five years and continuing improvements  
in our underlying performance.
1    Return on capital employed ‘ROCE’ is calculated as earnings before interest, tax, operating 
charges relating to the defined benefit pension scheme and operating exceptional items, 
divided by average net assets adjusted for goodwill and intangibles, tax, cash, loans and 
borrowings, retirement benefit obligations and derivative financial instruments.
2    Site ROCE on land acquisition is calculated as site operating profit (site trading profit less 
overheads less allocated administrative overheads) divided by average investment in site  
land, work in progress and equity share.
8 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strong performance  
in a recovering market
Group Chief Executive’s Review The proportion of larger homes in attractive locations has 
increased and we are building fewer apartments. Outside  
of London, the proportion of our completions that were 
apartments fell from 21.5% to 17 .4% during the year.
Stronger market conditions have led to an increase in underlying 
house prices. During the year we saw this reflected in the higher 
prices being achieved for our homes, particularly in London, the 
South East and the East of England with smaller increases 
elsewhere in the country. 
A key component of our marketing proposition remains quality 
and good design. Higher quality homes on attractive, well 
designed developments command a price premium compared 
to the second-hand market in many areas.
Efficiency and costs 
Higher production volumes across the industry placed a 
number of well publicised pressures on the supply chain. 
Increased costs and shortages of materials were experienced  
across the industry, however we experienced limited disruption 
to our build programme. 
Our operating model of building a high proportion of 
standardised products, strong supplier relationships and 
centralised procurement contracts has served us well. 
A shortage of skilled labour did increase costs, with bricklaying 
the most affected area. However, these costs form a low 
proportion of our total cost base. Overall we have seen a low 
single digit increase in our build costs. Over the next twelve 
months we expect low single digit build cost inflation. 
Driving returns on capital
During the year we continued our focus on increasing return  
on capital achieving a ROCE of 19.5%, up from 1 1.5% in FY13. 
As a result, we exceeded our target of 18% two years ahead  
of schedule and we have now revised our target to a ROCE  
of at least 25% for FY17 . 
New land coming into production is a key driver of return on 
capital for the business and we have a 25% hurdle rate for all 
the new land we acquire. On completed sites to date that were 
acquired since 2009, we have generated a 39.2% ROCE.
A stronger Balance Sheet
Over the last three years we have moved from net debt of 
£322.6m as at 30 June 201 1 to net cash of £73. 1m as at 
30 June 2014. This reflects our stronger trading performance 
combined with control of working capital. 
Our priorities
We have developed four priorities to deliver leading financial 
performance and returns for our shareholders; customer first, 
great places, building excellence and investing in our people.  
For each area we have a number of targets in place that will drive 
the performance of the business. We believe that by innovating  
in these areas and consistently applying best practice, we will 
maximise sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Customer first
A fundamental part of our strategy is to increase customer 
preference by building great homes and providing an 
outstanding experience for our customers. We have again 
achieved a customer recommendation score of over 90%, 
achieving a HBF 5 Star customer rating for the fifth consecutive 
year. We are the only major housebuilder to achieve this. 
We ensure that the value of our David Wilson and Barratt 
brands are maximised through carefully defined market 
positioning and by offering the right house types to the right 
market segments. During the year we have refreshed the 
Barratt Homes and Barratt London brands and this is proving 
popular with customers and our employees. 
Approved land purchases
£1,198.1m
(2013: £1,047 .3m)
Private average selling price
£241,600
(2013: £213,900)
Profit before tax 
£390.6m
(2013: £192.0m before  
exceptional items)
Return on capital employed
19.5% 
 (2013: 11.5%)
Mum-to-be Melissa and her partner Richard are settling into their  
new home at Meadow Rise in Stockton, where they were the 200th 
Barratt buyers.
9 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Other Information Financial Statements 80% of customer leads are now generated through our 
websites and 94% of leads are actioned within five working 
hours. The cost-effectiveness of our lead generation is also 
reinforced by a national call centre that is now handling over 
70,000 enquiries per year. 
We continue to develop a series of optional extras for our 
customers to ensure that we meet their requirements. Last year 
57% of our customers chose optional extras with an average 
spend of £3,900.
In the longer term we are continuing to research the lifestyle 
choices of our customers to ensure we understand emerging 
consumer trends.
Great places
Building great places requires the ability to secure outstanding 
sites at the right price and ensuring that through thoughtful 
design they are transformed into attractive places to live.
 
We are positioning ourselves as the local developer of choice 
based on the quality of our business and the ability to secure 
the right planning consents. As a result, we have been able to 
develop innovative partnerships with a number of land owners. 
During the year we approved £1, 198. 1m (2013: £1,047 .3m) of 
land investment amounting to 21,478 (2013: 18,536) units on 
156 (2013: 145) sites. As at 30 June 2014 the Group had 4.7 
years (excluding JV’s) of land supply, slightly exceeding the 
Group target of 4.5 years. This reflects our success at both 
acquiring operational land in the market and converting land 
from our strategic land.
We have made good progress on building our strategic land 
portfolio, which now comprises c. 69,200 plots (2013: c. 59,800 
plots). In the year 10.0% (2013: 7 .0%) of total completions were 
on strategically sourced land, and as our rate of strategic land 
conversion increases, we expect strategic land to deliver around 
20% of completions in FY17 .
18.2% (2013: 24. 1%) of the land acquisitions approved in  
the year originated from the public sector. This is an area  
of competitive advantage for the Group as the procurement 
requirements are complex and require high design, 
environmental consideration and delivery capability. 
In terms of design, we are now using Building for Life 12  
on all new sites to ensure that we create great places to live.  
We are the only major housebuilder to commit to the full 
implementation of this standard.
Building excellence
The quality of our building processes and the homes we sell  
to our customers is of critical importance. For the tenth year in  
a row we have won more NHBC Pride in the Job Awards for the 
excellence of our site managers than any other housebuilder.
 
We believe that a ‘right first time’ approach is the most  
cost-effective option and we will continue to focus on the 
excellence of our build processes. 
Where there are cost advantages and quality can be 
guaranteed, we are already adopting modern methods of 
construction (‘MMC’) in certain elements of home construction 
such as roofing systems. In the short term we will develop this 
approach further and in the longer term we believe there will be 
opportunities to develop a ‘whole house’ MMC approach 
across the business.
Investing in our people
Attracting and retaining the best people by investing in their 
development is fundamental to the success of our business, 
particularly as the industry continues to recover and skill 
shortages remain. 
During the year over 750 of our sales advisers attended our 
internal sales academy, which awards a nationally recognised 
qualification, to ensure that our sales and service capability on 
site is enhanced. The first cohort of 36 assistant site managers 
We are continuing to see the benefits of  
the operational changes we have made  
in terms of efficiency and the focus we have 
placed on improving the design and quality 
of the homes we build.”
The Prime Minister, Rt Hon David Cameron MP , visited our West  
of Bedford development to meet some of our apprentices.
10 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group Chief Executive’s Review continued started our foundation degree course at Sheffield Hallam 
University and we now have 64 students on the course in total.
In addition, we announced a new target to recruit 1, 100 
apprentices, interns and graduates over a three year period. 
During the year our graduate scheme was voted the best in 
the UK in the Job Crowd’s ‘Best Companies for Graduates  
to work for’.
Current trading
Current market conditions remain strong. Following the launch 
of Help to Buy in April 2013, sales rates over the summer period 
last year were exceptionally strong. This year we have seen a 
return to more normal seasonal trends. We started the new 
financial year with a strong forward order position and in the  
last ten weeks net private reservations per active site per week 
have averaged 0.62 (FY14 equivalent period: 0.66) in-line with 
our targets.
Pricing remains strong as we focus on achieving the best value 
for the outstanding homes we build and continue to see the 
benefits of reduced sales incentives coupled with improvements 
in selling prices arising from both underlying price inflation and 
changes in mix. 
As at 7 September 2014 total forward sales (excluding JV’s)  
for the Group were up 22.3% at £1,505.9m (8 September 2013: 
£1,231.3m) equating to 7 ,682 plots (8 September 2013: 6,676 
plots). Private forward sales (excluding JV’s) were £1, 145.6m  
(8 September 2013: £880.4m), up 30. 1%. JV total forward  
sales at 7 September 2014 were £249.8m (8 September  
2013: £164.3m). JV private forward sales were £148.9m  
(8 September 2013: £156.3m).
Outlook
This has been a very strong performance and the outlook  
for the Group is positive. 
We are continuing to see the benefits of the operational 
changes we have made in terms of efficiency and the focus  
we have placed on improving the design and quality of the 
homes we build. These disciplines coupled with the strength  
of the market and the quality of the land we are acquiring will 
support a further significant increase in performance in FY15 
and progress towards the new ROCE target we have set of  
at least 25% by FY17 .
With our strong projected cash generation, we are pleased  
to announce that our ordinary dividend programme will be 
supplemented by a special cash payment programme for  
the three years to FY17 . The first special cash payment is 
£100m in November 2015, with £125m in November 2016  
and £175m in November 2017 . In combination, we expect  
to return around £950m of cash through ordinary (based  
on consensus earnings) and special cash payments to our 
shareholders in the next three years.
Mark Clare
Group Chief Executive
9 September 2014
Trumpington Meadows, Cambridge, winner of the Evening Standard Large Development of the Year, a Building for Life 12 commendation  
and an NHBC Pride in the Job Award.
11 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Other Information Financial Statements
