 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7
“The ongoing investment in our people and infrastructure continues to deliver 
significant growth in Mounties deployed, Mountie revenue, profitability, cash 
generation and shareholder returns.”
 
 
Performance
I am delighted to report another year of strong performance by the Group. We delivered a 31% growth in Mountie 
headcount in 2015 achieving a record 2,022 Mounties placed with clients by week 52 2015 (week 52 2014: 1,539). Global 
revenues increased by 30% to £160.7 million (2014: £123.3 million) with growth in revenues and operating profits being 
delivered by each of our operating regions. 
During 2015 we secured 65 new clients across multiple sectors and now have a presence in finance, media, insurance, 
energy, aviation, government and not-for-profit sectors. We have expanded the regions in which we operate, placing 
Mounties for the first time in Austria and expanding into six new states in the USA. We have strengthened our partnerships 
with many universities, clients and military associations which enable us to continue creating and inspiring exciting careers 
that shape our digital future.
Strategic investment
At the core of our strategy is investment in our people and in our infrastructure. A key feature of 2015 has been the 
accelerated investment in our training academies; a combination of new facilities in new locations or larger facilities 
in existing locations. In June 2015 we opened an academy in Leeds, followed by openings in Glasgow and Hong Kong 
immediately after the year end, with a new and significantly enlarged facility opening in Toronto in April 2016. We are 
currently sourcing a new satellite centre in the USA which will enable us to accommodate the growing demand from our 
existing customers in states outside of the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. We will continue to 
open and hire temporary training facilities to accommodate our client needs where required. The training offered through 
our academy facilities is continuously enhanced, refined and expanded in order to suit new and existing customers, 
territories and markets. 
In 2015 we introduced a performance share plan that has enabled us to widen the factors motivating and rewarding our 
staff for their contribution to the success of the Group. We have also made some key personnel appointments in the year 
to ensure we are well placed to continue to deliver growth, excellent services to all of our customers and outstanding 
careers to our Mounties.
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome Michelle Senecal de Fonseca and David Lister to the Board, Michelle joined the Board on  
15 January 2016 and David’s appointment will commence on 9 March 2016. Their significant experience and capabilities 
further strengthen the Board. 
I would like to thank Jonathan Brooks, who stepped down during the year, for his contribution to the Group during his 
tenure.
Chairman’s Statement
Strategic Report FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
8
Dividends
I am pleased to report that the Directors are proposing a final dividend of 8.5 pence per share, which together with the 
interim dividend gives a total ordinary dividend per share for the year of 16.5 pence. I am also pleased to report that 
the Board is proposing a special dividend of 5.0 pence per share. It is our intention to continue to deliver increasing 
shareholder returns in part through our progressive dividend policy.
 
Current trading and outlook
2016, our 25th trading year, has started well for the Group and I am confident that we are well placed to deliver another 
year of good progress.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication over the past year whose commitment and 
energy continue to drive the Group forward. 
Ivan Martin 
Chairman 
 
8 March 2016
Chairman’s Statement
