 FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
9
Chief Executive’s Review
“I am exceptionally proud of what FDM has achieved in 2015. The Group, across 
all its regions, delivered a strong financial performance, materially grew the 
number of Mounties on site and accelerated our UK and international Academy 
expansion programme. Notwithstanding significant investments made in the year 
in people and facilities to underpin our future growth, we finished 2015 with net 
cash balances of £22.4 million. Reflecting the Group’s strong cash position and the 
Board’s confidence in the business, the Board is also proposing a special dividend 
of 5.0 pence per share, equivalent to £5.4 million.”
 
 
 
Our strategy
Our strategy, which is to deliver customer led, sustainable profitable growth on a consistent basis, is enabled by:
• Attracting, training and developing high-calibre consultants globally (“Mounties”);
• Investing in operational capacity through the development of state-of-the-art training facilities (“Academies”);
• Providing excellent client service to attract new clients and to retain and expand contracts with existing clients 
(“Clients”); and
• Developing new service capabilities in current markets and in new markets which offer attractive growth 
opportunities (“New markets and services”).
We have made good progress against our strategic objectives in 2015 as set out below:
Strategic Report
Mounties Academies
• FDM is now amongst the UK’s largest graduate 
employers.
• FDM’s reputation amongst leading universities is 
growing with excellent feedback.
• A 31% increase in the number of Mounties placed in all 
territories, reaching a record 2,022 at week 52 in 2015.
• Ex-Forces Programme performing strongly with over 
130 personnel placed at client sites across all territories. 
• Numerous employer awards won by FDM as detailed in 
the Highlights section on page 6. 
• Improved funding initiatives during training for 
Mounties.
• Four new Academies opened in 2015 or early 2016: 
- Leeds, a new location for FDM, replacing its existing 
Manchester facility;
- Glasgow, enlarged premises in existing location; 
- Hong Kong, enlarged premises in existing location 
with the addition of a training Academy; and 
- Toronto, a new and significantly enlarged facility in 
existing location.
• 1,240 individuals trained through FDM’s Academies in the 
year, an increase of 32% compared with 2014.
Clients New markets and services
• 65 new clients across all territories.
• Increased presence and diversification in the key sectors 
in which FDM operates.
• Three new service offerings successfully launched: 
Business Analysis; Business Intelligence; and Cyber 
Security.
• Recruitment of new Group Chief Information Officer 
to drive the expansion of the Group’s existing range of 
technical and business disciplines.
• Six new US states entered into, including Virginia and 
California. FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10
Our markets
An overview of the financial performance of and developments in each of the markets in which we operate is set out 
on pages 15 and 16. Whilst significant growth and progress was made across all markets, North America in particular 
had an outstanding year. We gained 16 new clients across the region, with one of FDM’s new clients in 2015 already 
our largest client in North America, a remarkable achievement in such a short period of time. What we have achieved 
with this client demonstrates the quality and flexibility of the FDM model and the lengths FDM will go to in order to 
meet its customers’ needs. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Delivery
In partnership with the US client team lead, FDM designed an intensive and tailored programme to 
train Mounties in relevant technologies and methodologies. FDM set up a remote “pop-up” training 
centre in Virginia, enabling local talent to be sourced and trained by experienced FDM trainers near 
the US client’s main operation.
To facilitate the knowledge transition and to reduce the on boarding phase, a Senior FDM consultant 
and FDM Business Development Manager were embedded into the US client’s team. Through a 
combination of shadowing current activity, work environment analysis, and hands-on activity, a full 
picture of the US client’s requirements was captured and incorporated into FDM’s training programme.
Outcome
FDM successfully placed an initial 30 Mounties, followed by an additional 45 by week 52 2015. The total 
Mounties on site has since grown to 80 by February 2016. The feedback received from the client has 
been excellent, with further requests for consultants in the first quarter of 2016.
Engagement
In early 2015 FDM was engaged by a US client to provide a pool of trained, readily available, local 
resource to facilitate a planned systems transformation. 
Case study FDM Group (Holdings) plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
11
Our people
Our Mounties and staff are the face of FDM; it is their quality and delivery which enables us to grow our business with 
existing customers and to win new customers. During 2015, we trained 1,240 Mounties, an increase of 32%. This was only 
possible because of the strength of our management, recruitment, sales and training teams. We continue to seek ways to 
ensure we are able to retain and develop our best people and to this end introduced a new share award scheme in the 
year, the details of which are explained in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have also improved our 
funding initiatives for Mounties in training to ensure we continue to attract the best resource available.
We championed a number of people initiatives in the year; FDM currently employs over 130 ex-Forces personnel in the 
UK and USA and FDM USA was recognised as a Most Valuable Employer for Military USA (by CivilianJobs.com) and a Best 
for Vets Employer (by USA Military Times) for the second year running. The Group continues to support the advancement 
of women into the IT industry through the “FDM Women in IT” initiative. 26% of the Group’s workforce is now female. We 
also established in the year, the “Returners to work” initiative in Hong Kong, which helps individuals re-train, upskill, and 
return to the work place after a career break.
Looking forward
We have made a strong start to 2016 and I believe the Group is well placed to continue to deliver growth.
 
 
 
Rod Flavell 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
8 March 2016
Strategic Report Chief Executive’s Review
