 5
Our attitude has remained consistent. Identifying areas of cost saving, paying
down debt, restructuring our product range for growth, deleveraging the balance
sheet: each element laying the platform for the step change acquisition that would
accelerate progress. 
Chief Executive’s Report
In October 2014, Finsbury acquired the Fletchers Bakery
Group, a bread and morning goods business with three
sites and a £100m turnover.
It was a big call for the Board but the right call. Part
funded by an oversubscribed equity raise, the acquisition 
necessitated re-listing the Company on the AIM market. 
I am pleased to report the larger Group is operating well,
maintaining strong growth and sales trajectories.
T rading Performance
Results for the full 52-week period ending 27 June 2015
are described in greater depth in the Strategic Report but
there are a number of areas I would like to take this 
opportunity to highlight:
• Group revenue from continuing operations 
£256.2 million (£175.7 million in 2014).
• Adjusted proﬁt before tax up 76% to £11.4 million
(2014: £6.5 million).
• Record capital investment spend £7.4 million 
(2014: £6.2 million).
• Strong growth in adjusted diluted EPS, 
up 22% to 7.7p per share.
• Final dividend 1.67p per share, amounting 
to a total dividend of 2.50p per share (2014: 1.00p).
• T otal net debt £21.3 million equates to 1.0 times 
pro forma annualised Group EBITDA.
• Foodservice sales growth outpacing market, 
20 new products launched across ﬁve ranges.
• Winner of 2015 Insider Wales Dealmakers 
Deal of the Y ear Award.
• Winner of Bakery Manufacturer of the year 
for 2015 at the Bakery Industry Awards.
• Food Manufacturers’ Bakery Manufacturing Company
of the Y ear 2014. 1st, 2nd and 3rd place in the Q Awards.
• Successful robotic installation in Hamilton 
and Cake Innovation Centre completed.
• Baking Academies set up in Cake and Bread.
Drilling Down
Our core business continues to perform strongly. Underlining
a robust performance in the second half of last year, our cake
business registered an increase in market share, volume and
turnover. Organic growth of 6% was stimulated by increased
investment in promotional campaigns, outstanding 
performance from licensed products and innovative
methods of optimising the mix for customers.
One acquisition followed another. Reaching the growth
stage has taken longer than anticipated but momentum
was sustained by a second acquisition, Johnstone’s, in June. 
Johnstone’s Just Desserts Ltd oﬀers fresh sales outlets and
distribution channels, this acquisition will complement our
Fletchers growth plans to reconﬁgure established products
– Sharing & Snacking cakes and Artisan Bread – making
them available to an entirely new audience of foodservice
customers.
The pace of progress is evident in all areas of activity. 
We invested £7m in capital expenditure this year and will
spend £11m over the next 12 months. Now employing 3,200
members of staﬀ across the Group, Finsbury is developing
people strategies in both divisions, establishing Baking
Academies and setting up sustainability initiatives.
Our balance sheet has been transformed. Raising fresh
equity enabled the Group to take on less debt, enabling 
us to pay a bigger dividend. T o some degree, a dividend 
is about conﬁdence. What the dividend says is we believe
in the earnings.
However, the economic outlook remains uncertain. 
Consumers still have limited disposable income and they
want to spend it wisely. Discounters are continuing to take
market share in a grocery sector that is relatively static. 
Scale becomes important. If you’re up against a well-run,
well-invested larger business, it’s increasingly hard to
compete in the area of food. I think we’re seeing a number
of small food businesses go into receivership – we’ve just
bought one – and I see more opportunities of this kind 
in the future.
The coming year, behind the scenes, will be demanding.
Fresh layers of infrastructure are required to support £300m
of annualized sales. We have already recruited a senior Group
HR Director; we need to make sure we have the right people
around the table to engage in the debate and make sure
we take the right decisions.
Our vision has never wavered; to build a speciality bakery
group focused on quality products, delivering what 
consumers demand and our customers want. 
That vision is starting to bear fruit. We’ve done the hard
yards, built a track record of doing the right things and
navigated a route to balance sheet resilience.
The Group is taking shape as a diversiﬁed platform,
equipped to increase shareholder value, identify 
acquisition opportunities and deliver further growth. 
“T o some degree, a dividend
is about conﬁdence. What the
dividend says is we believe 
in the earnings.” 6
Peter Baker 
Non-Executive Chairman
Peter joined the Board on 1 July 2014 and 
is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Peter has over 30 years’ senior CEO and Board
level experience within the global bakery and
consumer packaged goods industry. He also chairs
another Board and is a Non-Executive Director
in two other businesses. Peter held the position
of Managing Director of Maple Leaf Bakery from
2009 to 2013, moving into this position after
the sale of La Fornaia Bakeries, where he was
the CEO. Prior to these roles, Peter held COO
and Divisional Managing Director positions at
RHM in the Consumer Brands, British Bakeries
and Cereals Divisions (including Rank Hovis Mills).
Peter was previously a Non-Executive Director
at Jordan’s Cereals, now a part of Associated
British Foods. He has also served as Vice President
of CIAA (a European trade association for food
and drink) and was on the Executive Board 
of FDF the UK Food and Drink Federation.  
John Duﬀy
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
John was appointed CEO of Finsbury Food 
Group with eﬀect from 30 September 2009, 
following a year as interim COO, and has led 
the turnaround of an indebted Group with 
a market capitalisation of only £6m in 2009 
to the restructured and fast growing £100m+
market cap growth business of today through
both operational improvement and a number 
of business disposals and acquisitions.
Following an engineering degree, John’s early
career was in the oil industry in exploration and
production with Shell International. John then
completed a full-time MBA at the University 
of Strathclyde Business School before enjoying
10 years at Director-level in manufacturing and
logistics roles at Mars, the global FMCG business.
This was followed by private equity experience
within the portfolio investments of both L&G
Ventures and Bridgepoint including as Operations 
Director at crisps and snacks manufacturer
Golden Wonder and Managing Director of WT
Foods’ largest chilled foods subsidiary, Noon
Products, before and after its sale to Kerry Foods.
John has experience as a Non-Executive Director
in both start-up and established businesses 
including Denby, the household pottery 
manufacturer. 
Stephen Boyd
Group Finance Director
Steve was appointed Group Finance Director 
in January 2010. Steve has spent 19 years in 
the food manufacturing sector and previously 
was Group Finance Director at Golden Wonder,
subsequent to that he was Group Finance Director
and Chief Operating Oﬃcer at WT Foods Group.
Steve worked with John Duﬀy at both Golden
Wonder and WT Foods. 
…it means acting decisively
when opportunities arise.
