 Our achievements are clearly towards the upper end of the expectations of our
stakeholders. I believe our historical investors recognise that the re-rating of the
Group has started and that the value of their holdings are beginning to reﬂect
the real value of the business. 
Chairman’s Statement
An Enlarged Business
An opportunity arose in the ﬁrst half of the year and the
Board reacted decisively. Fletchers Bakery Group was an
ambitious acquisition, a company in a product area that
was related but clearly distinct.
The acquisition has provided us with diversiﬁcation 
not only in terms of product but also of channels and 
customers. It has delivered beneﬁts of scale in conjunction
with access to fresh markets and opportunities.
Both businesses have similar approaches; we’re very much
in tune culturally and the sum, in our view, is far greater
than the respective parts. 
Our strategy has always been to take advantage of bolt 
on acquisitions if the right opportunity arises. In June 2015
this occurred and we acquired the Johnstone’s business
out of administration. Johnstone’s supplies snacking cake
products to the leading coﬀee chains and its acquisition
represents the initial step of the acquired foodservice
business into Cake products.
I would like to welcome everyone from Fletchers 
and Johnstone’s to the Finsbury Food Group. 
Implementing Comprehensive Structures 
to Support Growth
The pace of growth demands an evolution in the structure
of the business to ensure the Group’s success is supported.
A key role for me as Chairman through such evolutionary
times is ensuring an appropriate composition at Board
level and further upgrades to our structures of corporate
governance. The Nomination Committee is currently 
undertaking a review of the structure of the Board 
to ensure that it has the appropriate balance of skills, 
including experience and independence, required 
to lead the Group through this period of growth 
and development. Implementation in these areas 
is advanced, but not yet complete.
The Board is currently conducting an extensive review of
remuneration across the business to ensure that we have
appropriate rewards and recognition in place to retain and
attract individuals with the skills that the business demands.
The Remuneration Committee has already delivered some
excellent proposals which we are currently in the process
of adopting.
In line with the review of remuneration, the Government’s
National Living Wage initiative, presents a challenge that
the Board is preparing for through a number of initiatives.
As with other businesses in our market, expenditure on
employment is a high proportion of our costs by comparison
with many other industries and this change is potentially
inﬂationary. Adjusting and mitigating the impact will take
time and will require ever-greater focus on eﬃciency 
improvements and cost reduction programmes.
The Opportunity Ahead
Finsbury Foods has undergone a transformation. We have
gone from being a relatively small Group with challenges,
eﬀecting a turnaround of the core and emerging to become
a Group with an annualised turnover of close to £300m.
And yet we still have aspirations and the capabilities 
to grow further.
The economic and market environment remain challenging.
Our customers are having to adjust their oﬀering and formats
and we must be responsive to these changes. While the
last ﬁnancial year oﬀers cause for satisfaction, there is a
dynamic environment at senior level, a restless desire to
pursue our ambitions, to continue to grow organically 
and to seek out further opportunities.  
Our primary focus for this year was on completing and 
integrating a major acquisition whilst driving organic
growth. The consolidation phase is now well advanced
and attention is already focussed towards a new set of
strategic objectives. I see the next 12 months as another
year of opportunity, another year of moving ahead.
3
“We have gone from being 
a relatively small Group....
emerging to become a
Group with an annualised
turnover of close to £300m.” 4 4
…it means we’re creating 
a business of scale.
Food manufacturing is a complex business. Inheriting
a troubled Group with a legacy debt issue in a diﬃcult
market, we articulated a clear strategy from the
outset; a strategy grounded in pragmatic foundations,
organic growth and long-term investment. 
John Duﬀy
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
