  Chairman’s statement
FirstGroup is a very important company 
to the customers and communities we 
serve. Operating in ﬁve major divisions, 
each a leader in its market, we provide 
vital transport links for millions of passengers 
across our core markets in the UK and 
North America. We are a signiﬁcant 
corporate employer with around 110,000 
staff, and our services make a vital 
contribution to linking people together, 
supporting the economic activity and 
social well-being of the communities 
in which we operate.
Innovative, efﬁcient and customer-focused transport services play 
an increasingly important role in responding to the economic and 
environmental challenges of continued urbanisation, congestion 
and demographic change. FirstGroup’s portfolio of leading transport 
businesses is well positioned to provide the transport solutions 
needed, and as such has opportunities for sustainable growth and 
good ﬁnancial returns in all of its markets. All of this was clear to me 
when I took on the role of Chairman in January 2014, but it was also 
obvious that the Group had not been delivering fully on this potential 
for some time. Two divisions in particular, First Student and UK Bus, 
were delivering margins well short of their competitors, parts of the 
business had suffered from a lack of appropriate investment, and 
the Group as a whole was not achieving acceptable returns for 
shareholders. Turning this situation round has therefore been 
the key priority. 
The multi-year turnaround programme we are executing is designed 
to sustainably improve the ﬁnancial returns of the Group as a whole, 
mainly through more robust decision-making around pricing, 
productivity and capital allocation. These areas are of particular 
importance in First Student and UK Bus, which together account for 
around two thirds of our annual capital investment budget and have 
underperformed. With the support of shareholders through the 2013 
rights issue, the Group has been able to reinvest in its future growth 
and commit to ambitious business plans that will deliver sustainable 
improvements in performance over the medium term, by addressing 
the Group’s core challenges. With improved balance sheet stability, 
and a strong and experienced Board of Directors providing challenge 
and support, the executive team have the platform to make the 
disciplined, long term decisions necessary to improve the Group’s 
sustainable returns on capital and cash generation. Over time this 
will reduce Group leverage and the associated interest burden 
towards its optimum long term level, and increase shareholder 
returns. As a matter of course, we continue to review alternative 
and additional actions to create shareholder value, but nothing 
compelling has become evident to date. 
With a continued focus on 
execution and a commitment 
to change, I remain conﬁdent 
that the Group will succeed 
in turning its attractive portfolio 
of market-leading transport 
businesses into acceptable 
returns for shareholders 
as planned.
John McFarlane
Chairman
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 04 During the year the Group has made important progress in several 
key areas. In this respect, I would highlight in particular the success 
of First Student’s contract portfolio pricing strategy, as well as the 
ongoing execution of the UK Bus turnaround plan, which has 
successfully stimulated renewed passenger volume growth and is 
beginning to capture yield. Both of these key divisions have taken 
important strategic steps to reposition themselves in their markets 
for the medium term, while also executing signiﬁcant cost reduction 
programmes. Continued disciplined execution over the coming years 
will be required to deliver the full beneﬁts of these important changes, 
but we are encouraged by the margin improvements these divisions 
have delivered in the year. Although Greyhound’s performance this 
year has been signiﬁcantly affected by the sharp fall in fuel prices in 
the second half, we remain on track with its transformation into a 
yield-managed, customer-oriented business, which will enhance 
returns from this division in the future, whatever the oil price. 
In the year the Department for Transport (DfT) awarded us a contract 
to continue operating our largest rail franchise, First Great Western, to 
at least March 2019, and a contract to run First TransPennine Express 
for an additional year. We were disappointed not to secure the renewal 
of the First ScotRail franchise, and were unsuccessful in four other bids 
but these were awarded at economic levels that were unacceptable 
to us. We were and will remain disciplined in our approach to bidding 
for these signiﬁcant contracts. 
Overall, the Group is broadly where we expected to be at this stage 
of the transformation plan, and has begun to demonstrate the 
improvements in ﬁnancial performance that were clearly required. 
Underlying
1
 Group revenue increased by 4. 1%, but more importantly 
operating proﬁt
2
 increased by 13.3%, adjusted proﬁt before tax 
improved by 46.5%, and adjusted proﬁt attributable to ordinary 
shareholders increased by 48.2%. Adjusted EPS increased by 30.7%, 
less than attributable proﬁt because of the increased number of shares 
following the rights issue. Group ROCE was 7 .8%, or 8.5% at constant 
exchange rates, a 0.3 percentage point improvement compared with 
8.2% in 2013/14. Group cash ﬂow, though still signiﬁcantly below our 
potential, was better than our initial expectations, and we expect the 
actions we are taking will increase this substantially over time. In due 
course, the Board is conﬁdent that the business plans being executed 
will return the Group to a sustainable cash generative position, with the 
potential to resume payment of a dividend. However at this stage of the 
Group’s transformation, and having regard to the commitment to the 
capital investment programme and the importance of strengthening the 
balance sheet further, the Board considers it appropriate to continue 
to refrain from reinstating a dividend at this point. 
In some respects, the signiﬁcant improvements in ﬁnancial results 
this year are a reﬂection of past underperformance, and there remain 
a number of headwinds to navigate, but I am conﬁdent that we are 
executing the most appropriate actions to return the Group to a 
sustainably stronger long term position. We have made encouraging 
progress in the year, and some of the most important actions have 
yet to manifest themselves fully in the ﬁnancial results. The improving 
ﬁnancial results from First Student and UK Bus, our most capital 
intensive businesses, reinforce our conﬁdence in the future. With a 
continued focus on execution and a commitment to change, I remain 
conﬁdent that the Group will succeed in turning its attractive portfolio 
of market-leading transport businesses into acceptable returns for 
shareholders as planned. 
Of course all of this progress is only made possible by the continued 
commitment of our employees to delivering quality services for our 
customers and communities. On behalf of the Board I would like to 
extend my sincere gratitude to all our employees for their hard work 
and dedication.
Chris Surch will be retiring from the role of Group Finance Director on 
8 January 2016, following his decision to step down from a full-time 
executive role for personal reasons. The Board has commenced 
a formal search for his replacement. On behalf of the Board and 
everyone at FirstGroup I would like to thank Chris for his commitment 
to the transformation of the Group over the last three years. We respect 
his decision to step down and he will be leaving with our good wishes 
for the future.
In May I was pleased to welcome Wolfhart Hauser to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate. He has an exemplary 
track record of sustained value creation and is a highly experienced 
Non-Executive Director. It is with regret that I am required to step down 
from the Chairmanship of FirstGroup at the AGM in July, in order to fully 
dedicate myself to the task of bringing Barclays to full health. However, 
with Wolfhart succeeding me as Chairman, I will be leaving FirstGroup 
in capable hands. I wish him and all at FirstGroup well for the future.
John McFarlane
Chairman  
10 June 2015
1   
Excluding impact of UK Rail franchise changes, non-recurring revenues 
in prior year from UK Bus operations now sold/closed and foreign 
exchange translation. 
2   
Operating proﬁt referred to throughout this document refers to operating proﬁt 
before amortisation charges and certain other items as set out in note 4 
to the ﬁnancial statements. 
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
Strategic report
