  Chief Executive’s strategic review 
We keep customers moving and communities 
prospering by providing solutions for today’s 
transportation challenges.
The demands placed on transport systems both within and between 
cities are becoming increasingly complex, and customer expectations 
for safety and punctuality, value for money, comfort and connectivity 
are higher than ever. In meeting these challenges we have a unique 
competitive advantage: the scale, diversity and track record of our 
portfolio of transport businesses means we have a huge range of 
expertise and experience across the Group to draw on. 
Our strategy is designed to leverage our scale by harnessing all of 
our international expertise and experience for the beneﬁt of our local 
markets. We focus on ﬁve strategic objectives where our strengths 
and capabilities across the Group have the most potential to add value: 
these are focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses, 
driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our 
passenger revenue businesses, continuous improvement in operating 
and ﬁnancial performance, prudent investment in our key assets (ﬂeets, 
systems and people), and maintaining responsible partnerships with 
our customers and communities. 
In this strategic report we set out our business model, strategy and
objectives in detail and review how we performed operationally and
ﬁnancially in the year against our plans. We explain how we measure 
our progress against a range of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial indicators, 
and review the principal risks and uncertainties that we face, together 
with the approach we take to managing them. Effective transport links 
play a vital role in the prosperity of any economy, and responsible 
partnerships with our customers and communities are therefore 
one of our strategic objectives. The corporate responsibility section 
of our website expands on the summary contained in this report.
Progress with our transformation plans
In 2013 we put forward a multi-year programme to reposition the 
Group for improved ﬁnancial performance and to restore us to a proﬁle 
of consistent ﬁnancial returns, more reﬂective of our leading market 
positions and our international capabilities. We strengthened the 
balance sheet to give us the ﬂexibility to invest in this transformation, 
and set out detailed medium term ﬁnancial targets. We are conﬁdent 
that this programme represents the most compelling way to drive 
a sustained improvement in returns for our shareholders while 
continuing to deliver for our other stakeholders. 
I am pleased to say that the Group as a whole has made good 
progress in our transformation over the last two years, notwithstanding 
some unexpected external challenges since that time. In First Student 
we continue to make progress in renewing our contract portfolio at 
prices more reﬂective of the capital we employ whilst delivering 
signiﬁcant cost efﬁciencies, despite the unusually severe winter in North 
America in 2013/14. In UK Bus our tailored market-by-market approach 
has restored our ability to deliver passenger volume growth and 
market-based pricing yields whilst also reducing our cost base. In 
Greyhound our programme to adopt yield management and customer 
relationship management systems is on track – and the importance of 
having these tools has been amply highlighted by the impact of fuel 
price volatility on passenger demand this year. We have secured 
Our improved ﬁnancial 
performance this year 
demonstrates that our 
multi-year transformation 
programme is making 
progress, though we must 
maintain the momentum of 
change to meet our medium 
term ﬁnancial targets.
Tim O’Toole
Chief Executive
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 08 continued operation of First Great Western until at least March 2019, 
which provides us with an important foundation to build on in the UK 
rail industry. We were disappointed with the outcome of recent 
franchise competitions, but we remain conﬁdent that our disciplined 
bidding process is the most appropriate approach for us. Moreover, 
our track record of operational delivery stands us in good stead as 
the remaining two thirds of the franchises by value are awarded over 
the next ﬁve years. Importantly during a period when we have been 
reinvesting in the business, our cash generation is ahead of our 
initial expectations. 
As our transformation plans move forward, we will continue to build 
on the improvements in our revenue and proﬁtability towards our 
medium term growth and margin targets. We expect to continue to 
invest across the Group at similar absolute levels for the medium term, 
with our free cash ﬂow improving over time as our operating earnings 
increase. We also expect our ﬁnancing costs to continue to reduce, 
as cash generation increases and our relatively high coupon bonds 
mature over time. We continue to target a ROCE of 10-12% and a 
net debt:EBITDA ratio of two times in the medium term, and remain 
committed to reinstating a sustainable dividend policy at the 
appropriate time. 
People
In March 2015 we were pleased to announce that Wolfhart Hauser 
would join the Board from May, and will become Chairman following 
our AGM in July. Wolfhart recently retired after ten years as CEO of 
Intertek Group plc, the international quality and safety services provider 
and FTSE 100 constituent. Under his leadership, Intertek developed 
from a medium-sized group of separate testing businesses into an 
integrated global organisation with more than 38,000 employees 
and operations in more than 100 countries. Wolfhart’s track record 
of sustained value creation and his experience and counsel will be 
invaluable as we continue to drive forward the transformation of the 
Group. On behalf of the Board and our employees, I would also like 
to thank John McFarlane for the important contribution he has made 
during his tenure as Chairman and we wish him every success as 
Chairman of Barclays.
I would like to echo the sentiments of the Chairman in thanking Chris 
Surch for his contribution to the Group since he joined in 2012. During 
this time of signiﬁcant transformation he has played a key role in placing 
the business on a stronger footing and he will leave with our good 
wishes in all his future endeavours.
During the year our former colleagues at First Capital Connect and 
First ScotRail transferred into new franchise owners. We worked hard 
to ensure smooth transitions and we wish them well for the future.
We continue to invest in our people throughout the Group, giving 
them the leadership, professional development and other tools which 
are strengthening our ability to deliver our transformation plans and 
leverage the extraordinary breadth of expertise across our business. 
Outlook 
We intend to deliver further progress from our multi-year transformation 
plans in our 2015/16 ﬁnancial year. We currently anticipate strong 
progression in our non-rail businesses, driven mainly by the ongoing 
turnarounds of First Student and UK Bus, to largely offset the 
substantially lower contribution from UK Rail as a result of the end of 
the First ScotRail and First Capital Connect franchises. 
First Student will continue to seek higher pricing with the resultant risk 
of some contract losses during the 2015 bid season, though with just 
over half of the negotiations completed so far, we are encouraged by 
our progress, with average price increases achieved to date of over 5%. 
We anticipate this improvement together with further cost efﬁciencies 
to result in further margin progress for First Student in 2015/16, despite 
an impact of approximately $17m to operating proﬁt as a result of the 
lower number of operating days compared with the prior year. We 
expect First Transit to continue to bid for contracts offering good 
margins with modest capital investment, though we expect some 
reductions in demand for our shuttle services in the Canadian oil sands 
region as a result of lower oil prices. In Greyhound we expect our yield 
management systems to be operational from the middle of our 2015/16 
ﬁnancial year, with the ﬁnancial beneﬁts building over time. If recent oil 
prices are sustained throughout the year, we would expect Greyhound 
passenger demand to remain relatively muted, and we will continue to 
manage our variable costs in response. In UK Bus we will continue to 
drive overall volume growth and market-based yield enhancements 
while targeting further cost efﬁciencies in 2015/16, tailoring our actions 
to local conditions in the light of the progress each market has made 
through our turnaround plan. UK Rail’s contribution to Group earnings 
will be substantially lower in 2015/16, as a result of the First Capital 
Connect and First ScotRail franchises coming to an end. As previously 
indicated, we expect cash ﬂow in our 2015/16 year to be broadly 
ﬂat before the remaining UK Rail end of franchise outﬂows of 
approximately £30m. 
Our improved ﬁnancial performance this year demonstrates that our 
multi-year transformation programme is making progress, though we 
must maintain the momentum of change to meet our medium term 
ﬁnancial targets. Accordingly we will continue to work hard to deliver 
the considerable potential of the Group and return to a consistent 
proﬁle of cash generation and sustainable value creation.
Tim O’Toole
Chief Executive  
10 June 2015
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Strategic report
