 24624.04   9 May 2016 12:55 PM Proof 14
Flowgroup at a Glance
Flow Products Flow Energy
  
Our Divisions
Flow Home
Post year end we launched our range of connected home 
products, Flow Home. The connected home market is growing 
rapidly with increasing adoption, and normalisation, of core 
products like smart thermostats. Our own range includes a 
smart thermostat, smart plugs and a smart power monitor, 
provided by Fifthplay, a Belgian smart home specialist. 
Flow Energy is our rapidly-growing  
domestic energy supply business. Between 
January 2015 and April 2016 we delivered 172% 
growth in customer fuel accounts. We believe  
that current energy market conditions and 
continuing modest investment in acquisition, 
service, people and brand could allow us to 
continue to deliver growth throughout  
2016 and beyond, creating an  
energy supply business of  
significant size.
Flow Products is built on the foundation of  
the game-changing, electricity-generating  
microCHP Flow boiler. We believe this product  
has the potential to become the de facto heating 
solution in all appropriate markets over time.  
Our strategy is to introduce the Flow boiler into 
the market while continuing to develop  
our technology platform. Meanwhile, we will 
expand our product range by selecting  
other innovative heating products 
 from carefully chosen partners to  
offer a solution to the whole  
of the market.
As a business, we believe in people and their potential and 
we have invested in our people significantly in 2015. We have 
grown our teams and enhanced their skills, putting us in the 
best possible position to take maximum advantage of the 
opportunities our markets offer.
Our brand vision is to change the way people think about
energy. Subverting customer expectation around energy
companies — high prices, poor service, a traditional customer
offer — we aim to be known for delivering consistently 
competitive prices, exceptional customer service and some 
much needed inspiration through our ground-breaking energy 
products and our insightful approach.
Our People
Our Brand
Flowgroup plc 04
