 24624.04   9 May 2016 12:55 PM Proof 14
Chairman’s Statement
Strategy
Prior to 2015, Flowgroup had been 
almost exclusively focused on 
commercialising its electricity-generating 
Flow boiler. However, 2015 and the early 
part of 2016 saw a positive and prudent 
shift in strategic direction for the Group 
that the Board believes will allow it to 
deliver increased value for shareholders. 
The Group now believes it is in a 
position to be a successful energy 
services business consisting of a global 
microgeneration and heating innovation 
business, built on the foundation of its 
core microCHP technology plus carefully 
selected additional heating products and 
connected home products, as well as a 
growing UK energy supply business, each 
business delivering shareholder value in 
its own right. 
It is planned that these complementary 
businesses will deliver an overarching 
concept of Energy for Life. Energy 
for Life means the ability to offer any 
customer as complete a solution as 
possible in the energy space, including 
energy supply, microgeneration, smart 
heating and connected home (and in 
the future, more). It means being able to 
do this on an enduring basis – creating 
long term customer relationships based 
on trust and sound advice. It means 
delivering value in energy to customers 
in new ways, and increasing the value 
of those customers to the Group. 
We believe it is a foundation to drive 
significant growth and shareholder 
returns.
Business overview
The Group’s home energy business, 
Flow Energy, was launched in 2013 to 
support the microCHP boiler business 
by providing a ready-made pool of 
potential boiler customers. However, 
as the Group continued to monitor 
the market throughout 2014 and saw 
significant opportunities, the Board made 
the decision in 2015 to take advantage 
of attractive market conditions and grow 
Flow Energy. Therefore in December 
2015 Flow Energy signed a significant 
deal with Shell Energy Europe Ltd to 
provide access to wholesale gas and 
electricity on extended credit terms and 
without the requirement for cash security 
deposits. This effectively removed one 
of the biggest barriers to growth for any 
small supplier – the need to place large 
amounts of collateral with wholesalers 
when acquiring new energy customers. 
With around 100,000 customer fuel 
accounts at the end of 2015, Flow 
Energy subsequently rapidly grew to 
around 180,000 customer fuel accounts 
by the end of April 2016. The Group 
believes that further significant growth 
is achievable in the current market, 
particularly considering Flow Energy’s 
growing brand awareness and reputation 
for customer service – Flow Energy was 
awarded Which? Recommend Provider 
status for energy in January 2016, one of 
only two UK supply businesses to hold 
the accolade. 
In June 2015, the full launch of the 
game-changing Flow boiler was delayed 
by a European Court of Justice ruling 
that had the potential to increase the 
rate of VAT payable on the Flow boiler 
and its installation from 5% to 20%, 
an increase in costs for Flowgroup 
and our customers which would have 
been inconsistent with our ‘boiler that 
pays for itself’ launch model. In order 
to reduce this risk, we accelerated our 
cost reduction programme for the 
Flow boiler to reduce the effect of any 
potential rise in VAT, and made design 
and performance improvements in the 
same process. We returned to the market 
with a strengthened product in January 
2016 and completed our first commercial 
installations in April 2016. We now plan to 
progressively increase installations over 
the next six months, aiming for higher 
volume sales in winter 2016/17.
Sales will be primarily delivered through 
our disruptive Flow Brand Ambassador 
network. We have created a national 
sales network of high quality installers 
to promote Flow’s products in the home. 
We will provide our Brand Ambassadors 
with a cutting-edge digital in-home 
sales tool, Flow BiT, and crucially, we 
provide them with our heating products 
directly, cutting out wholesalers and 
improving margins. In an industry where 
2015 saw a positive and prudent shift  
in strategic direction for the Group.”
Clare Spottiswoode CBE 
Non-Executive Chairman
Flowgroup plc 06 24624.04   9 May 2016 12:55 PM Proof 14
wholesalers and distributors have 
traditionally wielded significant influence, 
this model has the potential to give us 
the flexibility and control that we need to 
take market share.
Concurrent with the first commercial 
installations of the Flow boiler, the 
European Commission published its 
VAT Action Plan which presented two 
options for modernising VAT rates which,  
the Directors believe, would both see 
the continuation of a reduced rate of 
VAT applying to Flow boiler sales and 
installations, which was positive news.
It is a key part of our strategy to 
supplement our Flow boiler offer with 
other innovative heating products. 
This will allow us to leverage our Brand 
Ambassador Network with a broader 
range of products and target more of the 
market more quickly as we continue to 
develop our core technology platform. 
Post year end we therefore signed two 
agreements with Daikin Europe NV and 
its UK subsidiary, under the terms of 
which Flow will be provided with two 
additional cutting edge products — a 
Hybrid which combines a gas boiler with 
heat pump technology to significantly 
reduce heating costs, and a range of 
Combination and System boilers that 
will be capable of remote diagnostics 
and can be controlled from a customer’s 
smartphone. Daikin Europe NV is a part 
of Daikin Industries Ltd, a world leader in 
heating and cooling technology 
Working with Fifthplay, a connected 
home specialist, we launched Flow Home 
in February 2016, a range of connected 
home products. Flow Home includes 
a smart thermostat, smart plugs and a 
smart power monitor. Our strategy is to 
provide as wide a range as possible of 
connected home products and we will 
continue to develop further relationships. 
Industry developments
The rate of change in the energy industry 
is accelerating as more and more 
customers switch away from the Big Six 
suppliers to new, challenger suppliers like 
Flow. Some industry predictions are that 
as many as 10m customer fuel accounts 
could switch to challenger suppliers by 
2020. We believe that with a reputation 
for high quality customer service, 
growing brand awareness and a strong 
management team in place, we are in a 
position to take advantage of current 
market conditions and grow Flow Energy 
to, potentially, many times its current 
size, delivering significant benefits to  
the Group.
The heating industry continues to see 
low levels of innovation. With traditional 
approaches and business models being 
the norm, the Group’s ground-breaking 
product range and disruptive Brand 
Ambassador model has the potential to 
allow the Group to experience significant 
growth. 
Board and 
management changes
Andrew Beasley, Managing Director 
of Flow Energy, joined the Board in 
December 2015, reflecting both his 
hard work in playing a key role in the 
development of our business, and the 
growing importance of our energy 
supply business. 
Alan Stevenson joined the Group as 
Sales Director of Flow Products in April 
2015 and was subsequently promoted 
to become Managing Director of Flow 
Products in March 2016. Alan brings with 
him a wealth of experience in the heating 
industry of bringing new products to 
market and growing sales.
Funding
On 18 May 2015, shareholders approved 
the firm placing and open offer raising 
£21.3m (net of expenses). Jabil, the 
Group’s manufacturing partner for the 
Flow boiler, invested £7.4m, illustrating 
its commitment to our business. The 
funds have been and will continue to be 
used to expand the scope of our core 
microgeneration platform (including a 
Combination version); reduce supply 
chain costs and upgrade systems to 
reduce production costs; continue to 
develop our national sales infrastructure 
for heating products; develop the 
connectivity capability of our heating 
products; and exploit intellectual 
property through licensing.
Business prospects
We believe that we have now created 
multiple channels for growth and that 
realigning our strategic vision to the 
changing reality of the market and 
leveraging our existing strengths should 
allow us to create a large, successful 
energy services organisation.
Clare Spottiswoode, CBE 
Non-Executive Chairman
29 April 2016
Read about Our Performance, 
starts on page 21
+21.1
Revenue (£’000)
£40,394
+172
Energy Customer Fuel 
Accounts April 2016
over
180,000
(January 2015)
Strategic Report — Overview and Strategy
www.flowgroup.uk.com Annual Report 2015 07
