 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
“Our management team’s 
confidence in delivering 
growth mainly by driving 
consolidation in what 
is a fragmented market 
sector continues with 
unabated optimism.”
Malcolm Diamond MBE
Non-Executive Chairman
Welcome to our Report and Accounts 
publication for the first full year of trading 
as a plc.
2015 and early 2016 has been an 
exciting period of positive development 
around the Group, encompassing the 
launching of over 6,300 new products 
along with broadened categories, four 
important acquisitions, strategic structural 
refinements for improved operating 
efficiencies and new data processing 
resources – all of which support and 
enhance market-leading customer service 
levels going forward.
Clearly, very few UK-based industrial 
organisations have totally escaped the 
impact of the oil price collapse, and in 
the first quarter of the year our subsidiary, 
Primary Fluid Power Limited suffered a 
20% reduction in orders and revenue 
as a direct result; however, after a swift 
redirection of sales focus into automotive 
and pharmaceuticals it had recovered 
normal revenue dynamics by the time we 
published our Interim results.
In June, the hose assembly function 
known as Vitassem, formerly based in 
the Skelmersdale distribution centre, was 
moved to the Primary factory in Knowsley 
eight miles away, thus releasing space for 
additional warehousing in what is now a 
pure distribution facility and consolidating 
all UK assembly operations on the one site.
The acquisition pipeline has been very 
active throughout the year, resulting 
in Albroco being bought at the end of 
May, and totally absorbed into Primary’s 
Knowsley site, thus yielding earnings 
enhancing synergies. In early July, Nelson 
Hydraulics (Northern Ireland and Dublin) 
joined the Group, along with its 40 staff and 
Managing Director Mark Nelson. These two 
additions when linked with Primary enabled 
the formation of a new specialist division, 
“Power Motion Control” (PMC) which is 
now under the leadership of Nick Fossey 
who joined us on 1 March 2016 from 
the Eaton Corporation. This realignment 
into two distinct divisions resulted in the 
decentralisation of the Group Marketing 
function and, after consultation, the 
departure of the Group Marketing Director 
Paul Watson on 22 October 2015. In 
turn, John Farmer, Flowtechnology UK’s 
Product Development Director was 
immediately appointed Managing Director 
of the Flowtechnology UK division. I also 
welcome Paul McGrady to the Operational 
Board as Managing Director of Primary. 
Formerly Sales Director at Primary, he 
succeeds Stephen Merrie who has 
now retired following a successful year 
overseeing the integration of Vitassem and 
Albroco into the Knowsley site.
In early September, a unique Master 
trading agreement was signed with the 
Hydraulics Group of the Eaton Corporation 
for the distribution of PMC products and 
the sole distribution of Eaton Winner hose, 
fittings and adaptors. The Flowtech Board 
consider this to be a significant marketing 
and service advantage within the sector, 
with revenue flow through anticipated in the 
second half of 2016.
T o underpin the Board’ s confidence in 
the dynamic progress of the Group over 
the past year, we committed to rewarding 
shareholders with a 5% increase in the 
dividend ahead of these results. Although 
at the time of writing, the negative macro-
economic environment and Brexit focus 
could be constraining investor confidence, 
we remain very optimistic about the future 
development and progress of this business.
You can be assured that our management 
team’ s confidence in delivering growth 
mainly by driving consolidation in what is a 
fragmented market sector continues with 
unabated optimism, whilst we gratefully 
acknowledge the ongoing support and 
loyalty of our shareholders.
Yours sincerely
Malcolm Diamond MBE 
Non-Executive Chairman 
12 April 2015
Non-Executive Chairman’s letter
Malcolm Diamond MBE, Non-Executive Chairman
Read more in 
44
Governance  
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
03
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
“The year has seen a period of 
continued strong development 
with an uplift in revenue of 
19% over the previous year, 
our first as a PLC, and a 65% 
improvement in operating profit”
Sean Fennon
Chief Executive Officer
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
04
