 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
“Whilst our acquisition 
activity has been fruitful, 
there continues to be 
significant opportunity 
to achieve organic 
growth through a 
wide range of revenue 
enhancing development 
programmes linked to 
this focused acquisition 
strategy.”
Sean Fennon
Chief Executive Officer
Summary review
The year has seen a period of continued 
strong development with an uplift in 
revenue of 19% over the previous year, our 
first as a PLC, and a 65% improvement 
in operating profit. At the same time, we 
can safely say that 2015 was a challenging 
year for all, with continued pressure being 
exerted on the industrial marketplace 
driven by the crisis in oil and gas markets 
and all its associated industries. In addition, 
this has been linked to more volatile 
currency fluctuations between sterling and 
our main trading partners.
Therefore, the result achieved gives a 
clear indication of the resilience of our 
core activities, and we firmly believe this 
represents a creditable outcome for the 
business as a whole.
The original strategy presented at IPO 
in 2014 was to deliver profitable growth 
while maintaining consistent high levels of 
service to our diverse customer base — 
this remains our core philosophy. Whilst our 
acquisition activity has been fruitful, there 
continues to be significant opportunity to 
achieve organic growth through a wide 
range of revenue enhancing development 
programmes linked to this focused 
acquisition strategy.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Acquisitions
Our strategy has assisted us to further 
increase market penetration and 
positioning. In 2014, when we acquired 
Primary Fluid Power, we were able to 
establish a firm footing in the distribution 
of technically advanced hydraulic 
components and power packs. During 
2015, by adding Albroco and Nelson 
Hydraulics, we had the critical mass to 
form a ‘Power Motion Control’ division 
(“PMC”) thus giving us an overall advantage 
in the marketplace through the creation 
of an OEM-focused hydraulic specialist, 
backed by a strong technical offering, 
across a wide and varied customer base. 
The integration of Albroco and Nelson has 
been extremely smooth with the process 
beginning to deliver a series of synergies 
in addition to the new income streams 
brought into the Group.
As part of this development, we have 
now recruited Nick Fossey as Divisional 
Managing Director of the PMC division. 
Nick joined us from a senior position at 
Eaton Hydraulics, and he brings a wealth of 
knowledge and experience to the business, 
as well as a deep network of contacts 
across Europe, the Middle East and  
the USA.
Our linkage to Eaton Hydraulics has been 
further cemented through the signing 
in September 2015 of a master trade 
distributor agreement which creates a 
long term partnership for the supply of 
Eaton PMC products to the UK and Irish 
markets. In addition, Eaton has granted 
sole distribution rights for Eaton Winner 
hose, fittings and adaptors to the Group in 
the UK. The agreement represents a huge 
opportunity for both companies to develop 
and deliver a sales growth strategy using 
our combined strengths of world class 
manufacturing and distribution.
Finally, following the year end, we were very 
pleased to add Indequip, in February, and 
Hydravalve, in March, to our portfolio, the 
latter establishing a new “Process” division. 
Both will remain commercially independent, 
but now as part of the Flowtech Group 
they will be able to take advantage of the 
wider product offer, technical backup and 
marketing resources available.
www.flowtechfluidpower.com
Stock code: FLO
27
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 24579.04 22 April 2016 10:48 AM Proof 1
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Managing our inventory and 
product data
A fundamental part of the Group strategy 
revolves around how we manage inventory. 
This is not only in terms of the financial 
investment, but also the product set that 
is used across all of the trading units and 
this subsequently affects how we are able 
to optimise the synergies these operations 
can achieve. In order to maximise these 
synergies, a major IT development project 
was instigated in mid-2015 with the aim of 
consolidating the Group’s entire product 
set, allowing each autonomous business to 
reap the benefits of being part of a larger 
organisation without the need for wholesale 
system change. The use of cutting edge 
web and data warehouse systems will 
allow this to be completed cost effectively 
and ensure that our substantial data 
resources in both range, graphics and 
pricing can be exploited seamlessly across 
the Group.
The creation of this ‘Global Data 
Repository’ has been implemented to 
enable the Group to consolidate and 
optimise the product set across all trading 
units. This programme will feed the multi-
trading platforms across the business units 
delivering major benefits, both financial 
and operational. This will be of increasing 
value as we expand via acquisition allowing 
further benefit to be exploited.
People
A further pleasing aspect of the year has 
been the development of our Operational 
Board which was established to promote 
information flow between the businesses 
and enable the Group to focus on key 
market, customer and supply chain 
initiatives. Initially, the Operations Board 
included the plc Executive Directors, 
Mark Richardson from Flowtech Benelux 
and Stephen Merrie. Following Stephen 
Merrie’s retirement from Primary, Paul 
McGrady has been promoted to allow 
an unbroken transition which has 
already created a strong start to 2016. 
Following the acquisition of Nelson, the 
Managing Director, Mark Nelson joined 
the Operational Board. Working with new 
Divisional Director, Nick Fossey, our PMC 
teams will be able to exploit the solid 
foundation created during the year and 
use the undoubted advantages created as 
part of a wider group. In Flowtechnology, 
John Farmer has also stepped up into the 
leadership role following many years in the 
sales and purchasing functions, and has 
brought a top to bottom understanding 
of our core operation. Finally we are 
very pleased that Andy Newham Senior, 
who has successfully led the Hydravalve 
operation for many years, will join the 
Operational Board from May bringing 
with him over 30 years’ knowledge of the 
process industries which we believe will be 
invaluable as we develop this new division 
over the coming years.
Outlook
When our 2015 results are coupled 
with the more challenging conditions 
experienced across the majority of 
industrial sectors, we believe they give 
further evidence of the resilience of our 
technical distribution model, both in 
underlying profitability and crucially in cash 
generation. The past 12 months have seen 
us continue to develop our multi-channel 
strategy with four acquisitions expanding 
our product and infrastructure resources. In 
addition, we also have confidence that the 
groundwork in identifying further targets, 
as well as building the team capable of 
successfully integrating them, will continue 
to bear fruit over 2016 and beyond. From 
the core Flowtechnology operation that 
we brought to market in 2014, we are now 
able to use each addition to our “family” 
of companies by exploiting the synergy 
gains achieved, both commercially and 
operationally, and this underpins everything 
that we do. A live example of this is our 
Data Repository project. We therefore 
enter our third year as a public company 
with expanding confidence about what 
the Group can achieve for its staff and 
Shareholders.
The Board takes this opportunity to thank 
our other colleagues around the business 
for their continuous hard work, dedication 
and loyalty, which underpins both the 
high level customer relationships and the 
Group’s overall performance.
Pictured: Operational Board 
Seated (left to right) 
Sean Fennon – CEO Flowtech Fluidpower plc  
Mark Richardson – MD, Flowtechnology Benelux 
Bryce Brooks – CFO, Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Standing (left to right) 
Mark Nelson – MD, Nelson Hydraulics 
John Farmer – MD, Flowtechnology UK  
Nick Fossey – Group Managing Director, PMC Division 
Paul McGrady – MD, Primary Fluid Power
28
Flowtech Fluidpower plc
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015
