 The disposal of the Sports Marketing
division, approved by shareholders on 
24 October 2006, after the year end,
was a significant step for the Group.
Accounting for a material part of Group
revenue in the last financial year, the
sale fundamentally transforms the shape
of the business and allows us to
concentrate on activities that we
consider to be higher growth
opportunities. The offer from Sportfive
Gmbh & Co KG, enabled us to realise
value for the Group and now leaves
Formation focused on its Wealth
Management & Professional Services
operation, as well as new property
ventures and its Representation division. 
These two divisions serve two distinct
customer groups. The first is high net
worth athletes and entertainers who
require financial planning and ancillary
services, along with career advice. 
The second is sporting organisations and
clubs for whom we can broker financial
solutions.
Looking forward, we see good
opportunities to develop the on-going
businesses both organically and by
acquisition. Our culture, brand identity
and expertise are well established and
the proceeds of the disposal of the
Sports Marketing division will provide
the financial platform to put this
strategy into practice. As at 31 October
2006, the Group’s net cash amounted to
£7m leaving us in very robust shape
financially.
THE BOARD AND STAFF
I am pleased to welcome to the board,
Laurie Turnbull and Ian Battersby. 
They joined respectively as Non-
Executive Director and Director of
Wealth Management on 2 May 2006 
and 24 October 2006. 
Laurie Turnbull is an experienced senior
executive in both public and private
companies. For over 15 years, he was
Chief Executive Officer of Texas Group
plc, the venture capital company and
was active in numerous acquisitions 
and initial public offerings. Laurie is
currently Chief Executive of PenMc Plc,
and Non Executive Chairman of 
CBG Group Plc.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
4 Formation Group PLC • 2006 Annual Report and Accounts THE SUCCESS OF THE GROUP
IS DEPENDENT ON THE SKILL AND DEDICATION
OF ALL ITS STAFF
[
]
5 Formation Group PLC • 2006 Annual Report and Accounts
Ian Battersby has been involved 
at a senior level with the Wealth
Management Division since 2000 and
has been Business Development Director
of Kingsbridge Asset Management
Limited since 2003, responsible for
product development, sector penetration
and high net worth client management. 
The success of the Group is dependent
on the skill and dedication of all its
staff and I would, once again, like to
thank all of our employees for their
contribution and efforts in the year.
Their hard work is very much recognised
and valued.
John Lawrence
Non-Executive Chairman
16 November 2006
