 Strategic Report
08
Focusrite Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s Statement
Record revenue and  
profit for the year
I would like to express  
my appreciation to the 
shareholders that participated 
in the flotation of Focusrite 
Plc on AIM in December 
2014 and welcome new 
shareholders that have 
acquired shares in Focusrite 
subsequently.
This is the first set of annual results since 
Focusrite Plc floated and I am pleased that 
we have performed well, meeting market 
expectations with record revenues and 
profit for the year. We issued 19 new 
products this year and will continue to 
invest in our research and development 
programme to develop future generations 
of product.
Our Group offers its products under two 
brands; Focusrite, which is the global leader 
in Audio Interfaces for recording with 
computers (the modern paradigm), and 
Novation, a brand acquired 1 1 years ago 
that specialises in synthesisers, keyboards 
and grid controllers for the Electronic  
Music market.
Both brands have a strong reputation for 
innovation, quality of build and performance, 
resulting in ever greater levels of customer 
satisfaction and resultant growth.
As a 26-year-old business we have a depth 
of management experience that belies the 
fact that the average age of our workforce 
is around 30. We employ new graduates in 
music technology and audio engineering in 
the business every year. Most employees 
are musicians as well as development 
engineers, sales, support and marketing 
staff (even Dave Froker, the CEO, is an 
accomplished rock guitarist!). This means 
that we have a strong empathy with the 
aspirations of our customers and indeed all 
our musician employees use our products 
in their personal creative endeavours. In 
turn we are proud that our employees have 
voted Focusrite as one of the ‘100 Best 
Small Companies to Work For’ (Sunday 
Times), for the past four years.
Meeting the aspirational 
needs of today’s global 
music creation community.  Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
09
Fo c us ri t e P l c  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009 9.1
13.9
20.2
25.3
36.1
41.0
48.0
Group revenue (£m)
£48.0m
+17%
The Group was fortunate to go into the 
recession following the 2008 financial 
crisis with no debt and we have built the 
Group to five times the 2009 revenue since 
then. Despite having invested heavily in 
product development and marketing to 
build the business aggressively to meet the 
ever-expanding demand, we remain debt 
free and highly cash generative. 
As a result the Directors have recommended 
a final dividend of 1.2 pence per share, 
making a total of 1.8 pence per share for  
the year. The final dividend is subject to 
shareholder approval, which is being sought 
at Focusrite’s Annual General Meeting to be 
held in January 2016.
Our largest market by revenue is the  
United States, where our brands are well 
represented in all the leading resellers of 
music equipment, notably Guitar Center –  
a chain of 280 stores – and Sweetwater 
Sound, a unique, proactive and online 
business that sells nationally from a single 
location in Indiana, as well as Amazon and 
many independent retailers. This strong 
brand representation in our product 
categories is reflected in the UK, Europe 
and almost everywhere people are 
recording and performing music.
There has never been a better time to be in 
the musical instrument and music recording 
market and we are making the best of the 
opportunity, taking a leading role in the 
changes that are sweeping our marketplace.
Finally, a big thank you to all the employees 
in the business for their teamwork and 
commitment to our collective goals and to 
our distribution and retail partners for their 
continued support.
Philip Dudderidge
Executive Chairman
Microsoft Production Studios adding 
new Focusrite RedNet interfaces
RedNet is helping position us for the future.
Microsoft Production Studios has expanded its existing RedNet 
infrastructure at its Redmond, Washington compound, where  
full-service, state-of-the-art facilities provide all of the resources 
necessary to produce end-to-end media solutions for Microsoft  
and third-party clients. Music making is going through a profound 
time of change: it’s performed, recorded 
and distributed in new ways. Focusrite is  
at the forefront of these changes: creating 
new instruments, disrupting how music is 
recorded, and helping musicians find new 
paths to listeners.
Disrupt Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
