 Strategic Report
12
Focusrite Plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Statement
Make it  
easy
Innovating for growth 
On the strength of our 19 new product 
launches, revenue continued its pattern  
of annual growth, rising to £48.0 million 
(2014: £41.0 million) representing a rise  
of 17.2% (2014: 13.5%). All business 
segments grew, including Focusrite 
products rising by 16.3% from £26.8 
million to £31.2 million, and Novation 
products rising by 22.7% from £11.5  
million to £14.2 million.
In addition, revenue increased in all regions: 
USA grew by 29.3%, Europe, Middle East 
and Africa (‘EMEA’) by 9.4% and Rest of 
World by 14.5%. We grew Adjusted 
EBITDA by 13.1%, with Adjusted EBITDA 
representing 19.4% of revenue. The growth 
was relatively consistent across our two 
brands. Two key new products, the 
Focusrite Clarett range of audio interfaces 
and Novation’s Launchpad Pro, arrived near 
the end of the financial year which, along 
with upcoming new product launches in the 
new financial year, should provide a good 
basis for future growth.
The market 
Globally the overall music gear market is 
growing, with macroeconomic forces 
affecting regions differently. The USA,  
not surprisingly with its relatively healthy 
economy, is in better shape than the 
Eurozone and Latin America. Asia continues 
to grow faster than the rest of the world  
even with China’s slowdown, although that  
is currently a small part of our business.
Driving disruption
More important to our business is the 
changing nature of music making, production 
and distribution. Focusrite is well-placed to 
take advantage of the shift to electronic 
dance music (‘EDM’), mobile ways of making 
and recording music, and the use of Spotify 
and YouTube as media for awareness and 
delivering music to fans. As a measure of 
both the changing use of musical instruments 
and the reliance on mobile platforms, 
downloads of Novation’s Launchpad App for 
Apple’s iOS platform grew by 87% and the 
revenue derived from that app, albeit still a 
relatively small percentage of overall 
revenue, grew by 185%.
Making it easy 
Musicians today face an unending stream 
of hurdles while creating, producing and 
performing music. Our drive to make music 
easy to make – at all levels of expertise – 
is paying off: the percentage of new owners 
of our products calling for help from Tech 
Support continues to decline to 3.5% from 
We intend to continue innovating, which has been the 
engine of our growth, and we are continuing to disrupt 
traditional methods of music making. This is liberating 
musicians with transparent technology that allows them 
to stay in the flow of creating, producing, recording  
and distributing their music. And we intend to continue 
extending the boundaries of our market with steps  
into adjacent segments.  Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
13
Fo c us ri t e P l c  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
+13%
1.3
2.4
3.2
4.0
7.2
8.2
9.3
6.5% last year. Critical praise from the 
press and end-users tells us our focus  
is paying off. 
Expanding into new segments 
The launch of the Clarett Thunderbolt line  
of interfaces takes Focusrite into a new, 
lucrative segment of the market, where 
products sell for between $500 and $1,500. 
Initial reviews by users and press experts 
suggest we’ll do well with Clarett. Focusrite, 
with its lower-priced Scarlett range of 
interfaces, already claims the number one 
worldwide position under $500. Launchpad 
Pro thrusts Novation into a new, higher price 
segment of grid controllers for the widely 
used software Ableton Live. Our entry into 
interfaces for the nascent iOS recording 
market, the iTrack line, is exploring new 
markets as musicians are just starting to 
experiment with mobile recording platforms. 
Finally, our introduction of RedNet audio 
networking products is causing excitement 
in the demanding ‘the-show-must-go-on’ 
Live and Broadcast segments. We intend to 
expand further by continuing to explore new 
market segments, both through acquisition 
and home-grown investment.
Managing margins
As explained more fully in the Financial 
Review, gross margin remained similar to 
the prior year. Our Euro exchange rate 
hedging kept our performance insulated 
from the volatility experienced during the 
year. As ever we kept a close control on 
product manufacturing costs, which have 
defied Chinese inflation trends. Operating 
costs continue to be managed carefully.
A great place to work 
With our rapid growth we face the enviable 
but difficult task of hiring the talented 
people we need to work with us. We place 
great emphasis on our recruiting, interviewing 
and hiring decision-making skills. Each 
employee has a bespoke training programme 
to raise their skills and further their careers. 
The Group has had a 
positive year following the 
IPO and is well set up for 
future growth. 
A new product, Circuit, is an inspirational grid-based  
groove box.
Our strategy is clear to employees and  
their goals and objectives are tied to the 
Company’s overall goals. We are delighted 
that for the fourth year in a row Focusrite  
was named one of the ‘100 Best Small 
Companies to Work For’. At the same time 
our continued focus on cost control and 
efficiency meant our revenue per employee 
increased. We grew headcount costs by 
7.1%, less than revenue and profit growth. 
We thrive on hard work, fun and results.
Executing operationally 
In the spring we relaunched the Novation 
brand, which followed a careful analysis of 
the brand’s strategy, heritage, values and  
an understanding of customer perception. 
We also reorganised our R&D department 
to make it more focused, fleeter of foot,  
and metric-driven, while we launched 19 
new products. Finally we have worked 
closely with our channel partners and 
upgraded where necessary. 
Current trading and outlook
Products launched at the end of the 
financial year have been well received by 
the market, with excellent reviews across 
the industry. Revenue in the first quarter  
of the current year was ahead of that  
for FY15, itself a record quarter, in spite  
of slower than expected initial sales of  
new products. Pleasingly, existing products 
continue to perform as expected. 
Notwithstanding the weaker Euro, our 
continued significant investment in R&D 
and an exciting new launch schedule for the 
current year gives us confidence that FY16 
will be a further year of revenue growth.
Dave Froker
Chief Executive Officer Make Easy
Technology has been a double-edged sword 
for musicians: it has created inexpensive 
ways to make, record and distribute music 
but it has also made giant demands on 
them. In the past, for example, a musician 
went into a studio where an audio engineer 
recorded them. Now the musician IS the 
engineer. Focusrite develops transparent 
technology to liberate the musician, to make 
music easy to make, at all levels of expertise.  Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report  RGB buttons
Closer integration  
with Ableton Live.
Drum sounds 
Spread across the whole grid, on 
velocity and pressure-sensitive 
pads which let you create 
expressive beats. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
Launchpad Pro 
An instrument 
designed for live 
performance.
Instruments 
The grid illuminates as a chromatic 
keyboard, so you can easily play 
notes, melodies and chords.
