 3 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Despite challenging conditions 
in property sales markets  
during the second half of 2014, 
our innovative business model, 
effective expansion strategy  
and strong position in lettings 
enabled us to grow revenues and 
maintain high EBITDA margins.
Review of the year
2014 was a year of contrasting halves. The first half 
was characterised by a very strong property sales 
market with transactions reaching their highest  
levels since 2008. In the second half we saw a sharp 
downturn in property sales volumes, particularly  
in Central London. 
Group revenue grew 3.4% versus prior year while 
Adjusted EBITDA fell by 6.9% to £46.2 million, 
reflecting the downturn in the property sales market 
during the second half of the year. Adjusted EBITDA 
margins remained strong at 32.1% (2013: 35.7%),  
a positive performance when set against the extremely 
favourable property sales market conditions in 2013  
as well as the absorption of the first full year of costs 
associated with operating as a public company.
Foxtons property sales revenues grew 3.6% with 
increases in average property sales revenues of 7.5% 
being partially offset by lower property sales volumes 
resulting from the market downturn in the second 
half. The average price of Foxtons property sales 
increased by 10.3% to £544k (2013: £493k).
Our lettings business, which accounts for 46.8% of 
Group revenue and delivers EBITDA margins of 32.4%, 
improved significantly during Q4 2014 with growth  
in volumes leading to a 7.7% increase in Q4 revenue 
compared to the same period last year. Full year 
lettings revenue was 1.5% up on prior year. 
Albeit from a low base, Alexander Hall, our mortgage 
broker continued to grow with revenue up 26.8% and 
Adjusted EBITDA of £736k (2013: £270k) up 172.6% 
compared to prior year.
The Group once again generated high levels of cash 
with an operating cash conversion ratio of 84.6%  
in 2014 (2013: 83.1%) and a net free cash flow of 
£27.3 million (2013: £35.5 million).
Expansion programme
We opened seven new Foxtons branches during  
the year and have a sufficient pipeline of new sites  
to complete our expansion plan for 2015. Like those 
before them, these most recent branches are performing 
in line with expectations and will support further 
profitable growth as they mature. The long-term 
outlook of the London market remains robust and we 
are committed to our organic growth strategy which 
delivers a high level of return on capital.
Awards 
As well as achieving solid financial results, Foxtons  
was delighted to win many prestigious awards for  
its service, training, website and marketing, both 
nationally and internationally, including Best London 
Real Estate Agency at the International Property 
Awards and Best Customer Service at The Estate 
Agency Awards in association with the Sunday Times. 
These awards demonstrate the unwavering commitment 
of our people to delivering exceptional service to 
clients, day in, day out.
Outlook
The Group remains highly profitable, cash generative 
and debt free. Whilst we expect property sales activity 
to remain subdued at levels comparable to those seen 
in late 2012 and early 2013 until greater political  
and economic certainty returns, the long-term 
fundamentals of the London market remain sound  
and attractive. We continue to be confident that our 
organic expansion strategy together with our strong 
lettings business will enable us to grow revenue and 
profit even in a flat sales market. 
Nic Budden
Chief Executive Officer
Delivering on our strategy
Note 1: Operating cash conversion is computed as adjusted operating cash flow/Adjusted EBITDA.  
Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as the summation of Adjusted EBITDA, change in working capital and net capital spend.
