 3 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Despite a subdued sales market, our 
innovative business model, effective 
expansion strategy and strong position 
in lettings enabled us to grow revenues 
and maintain high EBITDA margins.
Review of the year
Property sales transaction levels within the London market as  
a whole remained subdued throughout the year. In particular,  
the increase in activity expected by many following the General 
Election in May 2015 did not arrive and as a result, 2015 property 
sales within Greater London were well below levels in 2014. 
Activity in central London property markets has been especially 
constrained due to strong recent price growth and Stamp Duty 
changes, which have significantly increased the cost of 
moving home.
Despite these challenging underlying market conditions, we  
have been able to deliver growth in revenue and market share  
by continuing to expand our branch network, particularly within 
outer London. Our centralised business model has enabled us  
to generate high Adjusted EBITDA margins and the innovative 
application of technology and data throughout our Company 
continues to support the excellent customer service that is key  
to our proposition as a premium estate agency.
The Group achieved record revenue in 2015 of £149.8 million,  
up 4.1% versus prior year. Adjusted EBITDA of £46.0 million 
remained in line with prior year and Adjusted EBITDA margins 
remained industry leading at over 30%.
Foxtons Sales revenue grew 3.4% reflecting market share gains, 
against an overall market that contracted significantly in 2015, 
while holding firm to our standard commission rates. Our New 
Homes business continued to grow representing 14% of sales 
commissions compared to 9% last year. Lettings continued to 
produce steady top line growth and excellent margins. Lettings 
revenue was more skewed towards renewals than new lets as 
record numbers of tenants chose to extend their tenancies  
in 2015.
Alexander Hall, our mortgage broker, had a particularly  
strong year delivering both substantial revenue and Adjusted 
EBITDA growth.
The Group once again generated high levels of cash with an 
operating cash conversion
1
 ratio of 87.4% in 2015 (2014: 84.5%) 
and net free cash flow of £32.0 million (2014: £27.3 million). This 
stable cash generation has allowed the Group to continue to fund 
its own organic branch expansion.
Expansion programme
During 2015 we opened seven new branches, all in the outer 
London areas of zone 2 and beyond. These areas remain our 
priority for expansion and we have a healthy pipeline of new 
branches in similar locations for 2016. Since our IPO we have 
continued our geographic diversification, opening 16 new 
branches of which 15 are outside zone 1
2
 and these continue  
to follow a similar profile in terms of profitability and cash flow 
generation to our earlier openings. The 20 branches opened 
between 2010 and 2013 on average achieved positive Adjusted 
EBITDA in seven months of opening, and broke even in cash terms 
in 20 months. Average returns on capital employed for the second 
full year of operation were circa 150%. All branches opened in 
2014 and 2015 are performing in line with expectations. 
Awards
As well as achieving strong financial results, Foxtons was delighted 
to win many prestigious awards for its service, training, website 
and marketing, both nationally and internationally, including Best 
London Real Estate Agency and Best Real Estate Agency Website 
at the International Property Awards, and Best Large Lettings 
Agency in the UK at the Sunday Times awards. These awards 
demonstrate the unwavering commitment of our people to 
delivering exceptional service to clients, day in, day out.
Outlook
Our strategy puts us in a strong position both to capture growth 
in outer London through organic expansion and to benefit from 
any future growth in the sales market. We expect some growth in 
the sales market in 2016 but continue to believe that a recovery 
in volumes will be affected by a low level of stock. We remain 
confident that our organic expansion strategy together with our 
strong lettings business will enable us to continue to deliver 
robust results.
London is fundamentally a highly attractive property market for 
both sales and lettings and our balanced business model is proven 
to generate Shareholder value across the market cycle. The Group 
remains debt-free, highly cash-generative and focused on 
returning all excess cash to Shareholders.
Nic Budden
Chief Executive Officer
Delivering on our strategy
1  Operating cash conversion is computed as Adjusted operating cash flow/
Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as the summation 
of Adjusted EBITDA, change in working capital and net capital spend.
2 As defined by Transport for London (TFL).
