 3 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
I am delighted to be able to 
report a strong start to Foxtons 
life as a public company.
Overview of strategy
Our successful IPO in September 2013 leaves the 
Group debt free with a clear strategy and a great team 
clearly focused on our overriding objective to deliver 
profitable growth by expanding our business model 
throughout the higher-value, higher-volume London 
property markets.
We have a successful track record of expansion 
over the last 10 years. I am confident that the new 
local London markets we have identified for future 
expansion offer a real opportunity for the Group to 
benefit from the operational leverage inherent within 
our centralised business model, which we have been 
evolving over the last decade.
Review of the year
Group revenue grew 16.0% on 2012 while Adjusted 
EBITDA improved by 29.6% to £49.6 million, reflecting 
a high degree of profitability on incremental business. 
Overall, the Group delivered improved Adjusted 
EBITDA margins of 35.7% (2012: 31.9%), despite the 
impact of the significant ongoing costs of expansion 
and the work involved in the IPO process.
The Group’s newly opened branches during the year 
were delivered on time and to budget and are all 
performing in line with expectations. As they mature, 
we can expect the financial contribution they make 
to grow considerably. 
Our organic expansion strategy together with 
improving market share in our more mature branches 
helped drive excellent performance in our Foxtons 
estate agency business. Against more moderate 
increases in the property sales market, Foxtons 
achieved growth of 22.5% in property sales volumes 
driven by its more mature branches and recently 
opened branches. We also sustained average 
property sales prices at circa £493k (2012: £475k) 
demonstrating our continued focus on the higher-
volume, higher-value mid-market sector of the 
London property market. The percentage growth 
in average revenue was less than the average for 
London due to our expansion out from the centre 
and a greater emphasis on New Homes. 
Our lettings business, which benefits from a strong 
base of recurring revenues, continues to provide 
quality earnings and a healthy balance to naturally 
more cyclical property sales revenues. In 2013, lettings 
revenues grew by 5.2% and accounted for 47.7% of 
total Group revenues.
Alexander Hall Associates Limited (Alexander Hall), 
the mortgage broking arm of Foxtons, benefited 
from the beginnings of what we expect to be an 
improving mortgage market, finishing the year with 
revenues up 42% on 2012, albeit from relatively low 
absolute levels.
The Group achieved an operating cash conversion
1
 
of 83.1% in 2013 (2012: 88.7%). The Group’s 
excellent performance has created cash balances 
sufficient to propose a final dividend payment of 
1.70p per share and a special dividend payment of 
3.74p per share (a total payment of £15.4 million).
As well as achieving solid financial results so far this 
year, Foxtons was proud to win many prestigious 
awards for its service, training, website and marketing 
programmes. In October 2013, Foxtons was named as 
Best Real Estate Agency in the UK at the International 
Property Awards. These awards demonstrate the 
dedication and commitment of our people day in, 
day out to deliver exceptional service to clients.
Looking ahead
Looking ahead, we remain positive about 2014. 
We have a clear strategy focused on the organic 
expansion of our branch network, increasing our 
market share and improving profitability as our larger 
network benefits from our centralised infrastructure 
and bespoke technology platform. We have a 
strong sales pipeline for the start of 2014, our 
newer branches – opened over the past four years 
– are maturing well, and we are well on our way to 
opening a promising group of new branches in 2014. 
Perhaps most importantly, I believe we have the 
hardest-working and most talented staff in the 
industry and are extremely well placed to maximise 
our growth opportunities. 
Michael Brown
Chief Executive Officer
Delivering on our strategy
Note 1: Operating cash conversion is defined as the ratio of 
Adjusted operating cash to Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted operating 
cash is Adjusted EBITDA less the movement in working capital 
and net capital spend. 
