 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The attractive fundamentals  
of the London property market 
are as strong as ever. Foxtons  
is maintaining its organic growth 
strategy to ensure the long  
term success of the company 
and continued impressive 
conversion of profits into 
returns to Shareholders. 
Overview
Revenue grew across all business streams despite  
a sharp downturn in the property sales market during 
the second half of the year. We do not anticipate  
any recovery in sales volumes prior to the General 
Election in May 2015, after which greater political  
and economic certainty may return. The balance of 
our business model was demonstrated again in the 
final quarter with lettings revenue growing 8% on 
quarter 4 of 2013. Margins remained in excess  
of 32% with Adjusted EBITDA of £46.2 million  
(2013: £49.6 million). The Company continued its 
growth across London by opening seven new branches 
bringing the total network to 51. Cash generation 
remains strong which allows the Company to propose 
a final and special dividend of 5.16p per share in total.
Board and governance
During the year Michael Brown stepped down as CEO; 
he remains on the Board as a Non-Executive Director 
ensuring that we retain his valuable experience within 
the company. Nic Budden was his natural successor 
having been the COO of Foxtons for nine years and 
having worked closely with Michael during that period. 
Nic was formally appointed to the Board on 1 July 2014. 
Stefano Quadrio Curzio stepped down from the  
Board on 1 October 2014 in line with the reduction  
in the shareholdings of the private equity funds advised 
by BC Partners. I would like to thank Stefano for his 
wise counsel to Foxtons over the years.
Dividend
The Group’s dividend policy is to pay between 35% 
and 40% of profit after tax as ordinary dividends with 
the potential for special dividends to return excess 
cash to Shareholders. During 2014 an interim dividend  
of 1.77p per share plus a special dividend of 2.77p per 
share was paid in September 2014. The Board is 
proposing a final dividend for 2014 of 3.17p per share 
plus a further special dividend of 1.99p per share; 
bringing the total for the full year to 9.70p per share. 
The proposed dividends will, subject to Shareholder’s 
approval at the AGM on 20 May 2015, be paid on  
29 May 2015, to Shareholders on the register at 1 May 
2015. Since IPO in September 2013 the Company will 
have returned £42.7 million of dividends to Shareholders 
inclusive of the above dividend proposal. 
Summary
The attractive fundamentals of the London property 
market are as strong as ever. Our strategy continues 
to be the delivery of profitable growth through 
targeted organic expansion. The Group has continued 
to perform well taking into consideration the recent 
downturn in the London property sales market in  
the second half of the year. The Group has a dynamic  
and dedicated team of people all determined to build 
further on our success. I would like to take this 
opportunity on behalf of the Board to thank everyone 
at Foxtons for their commitment and hard work.  
With their continued support we can look forward 
with confidence to the future.
Garry Watts
Chairman
Continuing successful expansion
