 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
It gives me great pleasure to 
introduce the Group’s inaugural 
statement to Shareholders. 
2013 was a notable year in 
Foxtons development with 
its successful flotation in 
September. This success was 
the result of a sound strategy 
which has achieved strong 
growth in revenues and 
profitability over a period of 
some years. Growth has been 
achieved despite somewhat 
lacklustre macroeconomic 
conditions and a continuing 
shortage of property sales 
transactions throughout the UK, 
and in London in particular. 
Overview
Total revenue and Adjusted EBITDA in 2013 were 
16.0% and 29.6% ahead of 2012 respectively. Basic 
earnings per share grew by 52.5%. It is a testament 
to the quality of the management team that these 
results were achieved concurrently with a very 
successful IPO process. 
The strength of the Group’s balance sheet improved 
with the £55 million primary proceeds of the IPO 
being used to repay fully all outstanding debt. 
Cash generation continues to be strong which, I am 
delighted to say, allows the Board to recommend the 
payment of the first dividend as a listed company.
New branches opening
Central to our growth strategy is the organic 
expansion of the Foxtons estate agency brand 
throughout London. Since the start of 2010 we have 
opened 20 new branches in London, with seven in 
the last year. We now operate from 44 branches and 
we plan to continue to expand with the addition of 
between five and 10 new branches each year. I am 
pleased to note that all of the new branches opened 
in 2013 are performing in line with our expectations.
Board and governance
Ahead of the IPO, Foxtons appointed an experienced 
new Board which I am proud to lead as Chairman. 
We have already established appropriate Corporate 
Governance standards and these are discussed fully in 
the Corporate Governance section on pages 20 to 47. 
Dividend – return to Shareholders
The Group’s dividend policy is to pay between 35% to 
40% of profit after tax with the potential for special 
dividends to return excess cash to Shareholders. For 
2013 a final dividend for the year of 1.70p per share 
plus a special dividend of 3.74p per share will, subject 
to Shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 21 May 
2014, be paid on 30 May 2014, to Shareholders on 
the register at 2 May 2014. The final dividend is 
an apportioned payment from the point of IPO to 
year end.
Summary
Our strategy is designed to deliver profitable growth 
through targeted organic expansion. Although our 
growth is not reliant on any significant improvement 
in the property market, the Group is clearly well 
positioned to take advantage of any further growth 
within the property sales market. The Group has 
performed well; it has a dynamic and dedicated team 
of people all determined to build further on our 
success. I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
them on behalf of the whole Board and with them 
look forward, with some confidence, to the future.
Garry Watts
Chairman
Strong levels of growth
