 06
Fresnillo plc
Annual Report 2015
Fresnillo Today
Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations
Chairman’s Statement
In the past year we have witnessed a continued 
downward trend in precious metal prices, to levels not 
seen in five years. This has led to short-term operational 
and financial challenges and raised long-term strategic 
questions for our industry. 
However, we have seen periods of 
uncertainty and low prices before and  
believe that, with our high quality assets, 
conservative financial structure and ability  
to adjust operations and investments, 
Fresnillo plc has demonstrated its capacity  
to meet these challenges, maintain solid 
profit margins and continue to pursue its 
long-term goals.
Within this context we successfully ramped 
up the Saucito II expansion, significantly 
ahead of the original three-year timeframe. 
This was essential to achieving the 4% rise in 
silver production year over year, to the upper 
range of our guidance. In addition, we 
reached steady state at Herradura, which 
combined with higher throughput at Saucito, 
increased the 2015 gold production to a 
record of 762 koz, 28% above the previous 
year and strongly ahead of guidance. 
Notably, at the time of our IPO in 2008 we 
had set a ten-year gold production target of 
400 koz, which has been revised upward 
several times due in part to the acquisition of 
the remaining 44% of Penmont in 201 4, and 
we have surpassed even that target.
Development projects advanced largely 
according to plan. In the second quarter  
of this year we will commission the first  
stage of the US$515 million San Julián mine, 
the key growth project to achieve our silver 
production target of 65 moz by 2018. 
Detailed engineering neared completion for 
the pyrites plant, which will recover silver and 
gold from old and current tailings of the 
Fresnillo and Saucito mines. The Juanicipio 
advanced exploration project in the Fresnillo 
District is moving closer to the development 
phase, with production expected to begin  
in 2018.
Exploration results were mixed, with a  
4.2% rise in total gold resources and  
1.9% decrease in silver resources. Gold 
reserves remained relatively stable while 
silver reserves decreased 6.0%, mainly  
at Fresnillo and San Julián. Our resource  
base remains exceptionally sound, 
particularly given the lower silver prices  
used for the estimates.
The maturity of the Company’s Health, 
Safety, Environment and Community 
Relations (HSECR) System progressed toward 
its 2016 targets, as determined by an 
independent assessment. Notwithstanding 
the significant reduction in fatalities over the 
past few years, it is with much sadness I 
report one fatal accident in 2015, and two 
fatalities in early 2016, a disturbing reversal  
of our safety record. It is the Company’s 
responsibility to ensure that everyone who 
works at our operations returns home safely 
to their family every day. The Board will 
“ Fresnillo is well placed to withstand 
volatility and lower precious metal 
prices”
 
 Alberto Baillères
 Non-executive Chairman Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
07
Fresnillo plc
Annual Report 2015
Fresnillo Today
Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations
always give the highest priority to safety 
issues and has overseen investigation of 
these accidents, ensuring that management 
takes action to improve safety systems and 
practices. I encourage you to review our 
social and sustainability performance set out 
on pages 66 to 86 for a deeper look at our 
programmes and progress, as well as how 
we intend to support the UN’s sustainable 
development goals.
Revenues increased mainly as a result of 
higher production volumes and productivity 
improvements, which more than 
compensated for the 10.4% and 16.1 % 
declines in our average realised gold and 
silver prices, respectively. As a result, total 
adjusted revenues of US$1,583.3 million were 
2.5% above last year. Furthermore, the 19.2% 
average devaluation of the Mexican peso 
benefited peso-denominated production 
costs. However, profit attributable to equity 
shareholders was US$70.5 million, down 
35.0%, mainly due to the non-cash 
accounting effect of the devaluation of the 
Mexican peso on deferred taxes. 
EBITDA of US$54 7 .5 million was 3.5% lower 
than in the previous year, while cash flow 
from operations was a healthy US$542.9 
million, 346.5% higher mainly due to a 
reduction in accounts receivable. Our 
year-end cash balance was US$500 million, 
and net debt was US$300 million.
After a comprehensive review of the 
Company’s financial situation, capital 
requirements, growth targets and the 
precious metal markets, the Board declared 
an interim dividend of 2.1 US cents per share 
and a final dividend of 3.35 US cents per 
share, totalling US$24.7 million.
Our goal is to create long-term shareholder 
value, and I believe that this can be achieved 
by balancing growth, corporate social 
responsibility and attractive returns for our 
shareholders. The Group’s dividend policy 
takes into account the profitability of the 
business and underlying earnings, as well as 
its capital requirements and cash flows, 
whilst maintaining an appropriate level of 
dividend cover. A total dividend of between 
33 and 50 per cent of profit after tax is paid 
out each year in the approximate proportion 
of one-third to be paid as an interim dividend, 
two-thirds to be paid as a final dividend. This 
gives us the required flexibility to consider the 
underlying cyclical behaviour of precious 
metal prices. 
The Board’s governance agenda in 2015 was 
focused on the action plan based on the 
201 4 External Board Evaluation and in 
response to UK Corporate Governance Code 
changes taking effect this year, most 
significantly conducting the assessment of 
viability for the preparation of the Viability 
Statement. The Corporate Governance 
Report set out on pages 98 to 136 illustrates 
the full range of Board actions in pursuit of 
long-term shareholder value creation. 
The Board also continued to take an active 
role in setting strategy, reviewing progress 
against plan and ensuring management 
retains sufficient flexibility to respond to 
market dynamics and operational 
developments. Our role is perhaps most  
vital in the allocation of capital, and my 
colleagues and I are aligned in seeking a 
balance between growth, returns to our 
shareholders and maintaining a strong 
financial position.
It is with these priorities in mind that we 
scaled down our capital expenditures and 
exploration budget in 2015, and have begun 
to implement our contingency plan in 201 6 to 
safeguard our financial position at a time of 
cyclically low precious metal prices. 
Specifically, we have deferred equipment 
orders for the planned pyrites plant and 
development work at Orisyvo. We will 
continue to monitor market conditions closely 
to evaluate the timing of reinstating these 
projects, or if further deferrals are required, 
and will act accordingly. We have also directed 
management to focus on further cost 
reductions, productivity improvements and 
value preservation measures. 
The challenges we face today are real and 
evolving, as we detail in our Market Overview 
and Risk sections (pages 16 to 1 7 and 36 to 
4 7). While there is little consensus on when 
we might next see upside, I believe that our 
low cost operations, development project 
pipeline and portfolio of exploration projects 
constitute the solid foundations to drive 
long-term shareholder value.
Fresnillo is well placed to withstand volatility 
and lower precious metal prices and to reap 
the benefits of an eventual upturn. For now, 
we will focus on ensuring that our operations 
are working to their full potential, bringing 
our new San Julián mine on line as planned, 
replenishing reserves and continuing to 
explore core districts.
It is in these challenging circumstances  
when strong leadership is most deeply 
appreciated, and for this reason I wish to 
recognise our management team and the 
people of Fresnillo for their endurance, and 
my fellow Directors for their invaluable advice 
and support.
Alberto Baillères
Non-executive Chairman
