 12
Fresnillo plc
Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report
Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations
Chief Executive’s Letter
The mining industry faces significant pressures and challenges today: 
depressed prices, technical difficulties in accessing mineral resources 
and rising demands of multiple stakeholders. Many in our industry 
have responded by increasing productivity, innovating processes and 
technologies, and improving their response to competing interests. 
By necessity, best industry practices have been redefined. 
But many miners have rationalised 
portfolios, curtailed production, cancelled or 
deferred investment in new projects and 
reduced exploration. Such cash preservation 
measures may be critical in the short term 
but, taken to the extreme, could undermine 
the foundations of long-term value creation.
In that regard Fresnillo is well placed, with 
solid foundations on which to drive long-
term value creation: a strong balance sheet 
that enables us to invest across cycles, high 
quality assets, low cost and flexible 
operations, a disciplined approach to 
development, and a commitment to 
sustainable business practices.
These foundations uphold our commitment 
to balancing growth and returns, together 
with maintaining a strong financial position, 
allowing us to optimise performance in 
current market conditions while pursuing 
profitability and sustainability across precious 
metal price cycles. 
Indeed, we continued to generate solid profit 
margins in 2015, albeit lower year on year, 
while all-in sustaining costs (AISC) for many 
of our mines remain amongst the lowest in 
the industry. We advanced our development 
projects and by investing in exploration 
across price cycles, we generated increases 
in gold resources over 201 4, whilst silver 
resources remained relatively stable despite 
lower price assumptions.  
We remain prepared to act, of course, 
favouring actions that accelerate cash flow 
while deferring investments that do not 
compromise the optimal timing of our critical 
growth projects. Such was the case in 2015 
when we lowered our capital expenditure 
and exploration spending from their original 
budgeted amounts. 
We also encountered some internal 
challenges of our own in the year. At the 
Fresnillo mine, we fell short of our own 
expectations of operational excellence 
following development delays that had 
begun in 2013 concurrent with the natural 
and expected decline in silver ore grade. 
These delays, which limited access to richer 
stopes, were caused by a combination of 
factors including narrower veins, which 
increase dilution and require additional 
development to maintain throughput levels, 
poor rock quality necessitating additional 
shotcreting and anchoring, issues with 
contractors, and insufficient implementation 
of in-mine infrastructure. 
“ Our commitment to balancing growth 
and returns, together with maintaining a 
strong financial position, allows us to 
optimise performance in current market 
conditions”
 Octavio Alvídrez
 Chief Executive Officer Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
13
Fresnillo plc
Annual Report 2015
Strategy
Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations
We continue to see the results of the 
measures we implemented at the Fresnillo 
mine gradually come through, with grades 
and throughput increasing in the final 
months of the year, whilst lowering dilution; I 
am confident of a turnaround in 2016 with a 
target of a double-digit increase in ore milled.
At Herradura, our focus this year centred on 
increasing our processing capacity to cater 
for both the solution produced at the 
leaching pads and the dynamic leaching 
plant (DLP). We installed a second Merrill 
Crowe plant and made technical 
modifications to the DLP , which allowed us to 
reach steady state production by year end.
Safety continues to be our highest priority 
and I am deeply saddened to report one 
fatality in late 2015 and two in early 2016, as 
well as an increase in injury rates. Failure to 
meet our targets in this regard has profound 
human implications, more than any other 
goal we set ourselves. We must continue to 
strengthen our safety culture and address 
the human factors involved in the majority of 
accidents in order to safeguard our workforce 
and retain our licence to operate. 
In each of these areas above, we have taken 
important steps to improve performance in 
2016 and we will hold ourselves accountable 
for the targets I outline below.
Operating and financial performance
We produced a record 4 7 .0 moz of silver in 
2015 (including the Silverstream contract), at 
the top end of our guidance range and 4.4% 
over 201 4. This primarily reflected the 
ramp-up of Saucito II that resulted in higher 
ore throughput, as well as milling efficiencies 
at the Saucito I plant. Higher silver ore grade 
at Ciénega also contributed to the increase in 
production. These factors more than offset 
lower ore grade and volumes processed  
at Fresnillo.
Gold production of 762 koz increased 27 .8% 
over the same period of 201 4, against our 
target of 715- 730 koz and surpassing the 2018 
gold production target of 750 koz. This was a 
result of Herradura and its dynamic leaching 
plant being fully operational for the year, and 
installation of a second Merrill Crowe plant 
that was key in increasing capacity and 
reaching steady state. 
By-product lead production increased 48.3% 
on 201 4, to 42,4 13 tonnes, as a result of 
increased ore throughput and higher ore 
grade at Saucito and higher ore grades at 
Ciénega and Fresnillo. Similarly, by-product 
zinc production increased 45.2% to 46,022 
tonnes due to higher ore throughput and ore 
grades at Saucito and higher ore grades and 
recovery rates at Fresnillo. We expect base 
metal production to continue to increase as 
we extract at deeper levels of the Fresnillo 
mine, and our capacity to process these  
lead and zinc ores will increase following the 
plant expansion.
Our development projects and high quality 
growth pipeline remain a key pillar of our 
long-term growth strategy. We significantly 
advanced development of the San Julián 
silver-gold project, and despite delays in 
permitting, weather-related issues, security 
concerns and a high rotation of contractor 
personnel arising from the project’s remote 
location, execution delays were relatively 
minimal. The commissioning of the stage 1 
leaching plant is now expected in the second 
quarter of 2016, only months after the 
revised target date.
Detailed engineering continued at the pyrites 
project, which is expected to increase silver 
and gold recovery rates by processing 
tailings, both historical and ongoing, from the 
Fresnillo and Saucito mines. Once 
engineering is completed in mid-2016, 
further work on the project will be put on 
hold as part of the contingency plan 
implemented by the Board to safeguard our 
financial position; equipment orders and 
construction work will resume as market 
conditions warrant.
Exploration mainly focused on areas of 
influence at current operating mines and  
key exploration sites, with our advanced 
exploration projects all progressing according 
to plan. At Juanicipio, mining works 
continued at a good pace and drilling 
showed positive results with a 10% increase 
in silver resources. We saw increases in 
silver-gold resources at the Huizache, San 
Julián Sur, Guanajuato and Rodeo projects.
Our resources and reserves reflect lowered 
price assumptions: the silver price 
assumption decreased to US$15 per oz (201 4: 
US$18). The gold price assumption for open 
pit resources was lowered to US$1,300 per oz 
(201 4: US$1,350), consistent with the price 
used for the purpose of the design of the pit 
shell, allowing for adequate long-term design 
flexibility. The gold price assumption for 
underground reserves and resources and for 
reserves in open pits was unchanged at 
US$1,150 per oz. Notwithstanding these 
reductions, our high quality asset base 
remains healthy. Gold resources increased 
4.2%, whilst silver resources and gold 
reserves decreased by 1.9% and 1.5% 
respectively. Silver reserves decreased, 
mainly at Fresnillo and San Julián, to 
54 7.6 moz. 
We continued to advance our HSECR 
framework in the year, and saw 
improvement in many key areas outside of 
the aforementioned safety issues. A notable 
highlight was the introduction of renewables 
in our energy portfolio as we move to 
decouple growth from carbon emissions. 
Moreover, our progress in terms of carbon 
emissions reporting transparency earned a 
93 rating from the Carbon Disclosure Project 
against our initial rating of 58 in 2010. The 
response to climate change and the need  
to build resilience in a carbon-constrained 
economy, particularly in light of COP21 
commitments, will require our considerable 
focus. Also notable was our inclusion as  
a top emerging markets performer by  
Vigeo, an international research group on 
environmental, social and governance issues.
While our financial performance in the year 
was impacted by the decline in precious 
metal prices, with our average realised silver 
and gold prices 16.1 % and 10.4% lower than 
in 201 4, respectively, this was more than 
compensated by the higher volumes of 
metal produced and sold in 2015. 
2015 silver production 
+4.4%
2015 gold production 
+27.8% 14
Fresnillo plc
Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report
Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations
As a result, adjusted revenues totalled 
US$1,583.3 million, 2.5% above the previous 
year. Higher cost of sales that included a 
significant hedging loss weighed on gross 
profit, which declined by 16.9% to US$433.1 
million. Lower exploration expenses helped 
stem the decline in EBITDA to 3.5%, resulting 
in an EBITDA margin of 37 .9%. The 16.9% 
devaluation of the Mexican peso against the 
US dollar resulted in non-cash charges to the 
income statement and affected the 
monetary position and value of certain 
assets and liabilities, resulting in a much 
higher deferred tax charge. A detailed review 
of our performance is set out in the Financial 
Review (pages 87 to 95).
Moving forward: our 2016 outlook and 
objectives
While we see long-term fundamental 
support for precious metals as we outline in 
our Market Overview (pages 16 to 1 7), we do 
not expect significant shifts in the factors 
driving current volatility, nor does there 
appear to be a clear catalyst that would 
support a return to higher prices.
Fresnillo remains well positioned to weather 
such volatility, with sufficient financial and 
operating flexibility. Our long-term strategic 
goals are unchanged: to profitably and 
sustainably maintain the Group’s position as 
the world’s largest primary silver company 
and a leading gold producer in Mexico. 
Having already attained our 2018 gold 
production and reserves targets, we remain 
committed to our silver targets of 65 million 
ounces production at that time, and 650 
million ounces in reserves.
Our near-term focus remains on controlling 
expenditures, optimising performance and 
delivering returns, even as we hold firm to our 
belief that value creation requires sustainable 
growth through the disciplined development 
of new projects and ongoing investment in 
exploration across prices cycles. As such, and 
in consideration of the contingency plan, we 
have budgeted US$600 million in capital 
expenditures for 201 6, to be allocated 
primarily to San Julián and sustaining capex at 
current operations, and US$135- 1 40 million for 
exploration. However, we will continue to 
monitor market conditions and may adjust 
the budget accordingly.
We aim to produce 49-51 moz of silver, 
including 4 moz from the Silverstream, and 
775- 790 koz of gold in 2016. In addition, we 
will continue to pursue a favourable 
resolution on Soledad-Dipolos, where mining 
and beneficiation were suspended in 2013 
following contested ownership of some 
surface lands; since that time, we have 
fostered strong relationships with other 
neighbouring agrarian communities that 
have led to the signing of new agreements. 
As always, we will seek additional efficiencies 
at all our operating mines, investing in 
productivity and controlling costs to maintain 
our cost position and solid margins. I 
personally benchmark our success by the 
ability to meet our objectives within a 
framework of maturing sustainability and 
good governance, and continuous 
improvement in our safety culture. 
I am humbled by and grateful for the 
confidence placed in us by our people and 
our communities, our suppliers and 
contractors, and our clients and 
shareholders, and feel a deep personal 
responsibility to meeting our commitments 
on sustainable value creation. I look forward 
to working together in 2016 to drive that 
vision ever forward.
Octavio Alvídrez
Chief Executive Officer
2015 adjusted revenues 
+2.5%
2015 EBITDA 
-3.5%
Chief Executive’s Letter 
continued Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
15
Fresnillo plc
Annual Report 2015
Strategy
Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations
2015 objectives 2015 performance See more
Zero fatalities, continuous improvement in safety One fatality in 2015 (vs. one in 201 4); two in January 2016 p70–73
45-4 7 moz silver, including Silverstream Met guidance at 4 7 moz mainly due to higher throughput 
at Saucito, offsetting lower ore grade at Fresnillo
p2
670-685 koz gold, later revised upwards to 715- 730 koz Exceeded guidance at 762 koz mainly due to Herradura 
and its DLP being fully operational for the year, and 
steady state having been reached at the mine post the 
installation of the second Merrill Crowe plant
p2
San Julián phase 1 start-up in 4Q15 Deferred to Q2 2016 following delays in permitting, 
weather-related issues, security concerns and a high 
rotation of contractor personnel
p60
Launch next phase of growth at Ciénega: start construction 
of plant expansion, build tailings dam #3, conduct pre-
feasibility study of mine expansion for Board approval; finalise 
detailed engineering of the pyrites plant and commence 
construction
Following positive exploration results, capacity expansion 
at Ciénega was deferred in order to evaluate need for 
increased milling levels, permitting process underway for 
tailings dam; detailed engineering works continue at the 
pyrites plant
p54–55, 61, 63
Exploration budget of approximately US$1 70.0 million, 
focused around current mines and advanced exploration 
projects
Risk capital invested in exploration reduced to  
US$151 million
p62–65
Evaluate mine plan option for Centauro Extension; continue 
exploration of Centauro Deep
At Centauro Extension, development of optimal pit design 
was concluded; mining works continued at Centauro 
Deep, geological model being revised
p56–57 , 63
Adapt water stewardship and biodiversity strategies Collaborating internally to forecast future energy 
demands and identify reduction opportunities
p74–79
Further advance maturity of HSECR system towards fully 
integrated system by 2016 target
Maturity of HSECR system reached an overall level of 
92.3%
p66, 68
Our commitments and targets for 2016 See more
Maximise the potential of existing operations
 > Fresnillo: Stabilise the rate of development at 4,500 metres per month, improve ore grade and production levels; 
advance engineering on the capacity optimisation project
 > Produce 49-51 moz of silver, 775- 790 koz of gold
 > Increase efficiency and control costs
p50-59
Deliver growth through development projects
 > San Julián: Commission leaching plant to process ore from the veins (phase 1) in 2Q16, flotation plant to process ore 
from the disseminated ore body (phase 2) in 4Q16
 > Pyrites plant: Complete engineering; equipment orders and construction on hold as per contingency plan
p60–61
Extend the growth pipeline
 > Deploy US$135-1 40 million in exploration investment 
p62–65
Advance and enhance the sustainability of our operations
 > Continue to strive for zero fatalities, continuous improvement in safety
 > Conclude advancement of HSECR system towards its 2016 target
p66–86
2016 silver production guidance
49-51 moz
2016 gold production guidance
775-790 koz 
