 We will remain focused on developing our business and our product 
offerings to ensure that we are in pole position this year 
for Big Data innovation and adoption.
Fusionex International Plc Annual report 2015 04
S G F
CEO’s review
with Ivan Teh 
Overview
The 2015 financial year showed significant progress for Fusionex, 
building on the foundations put in place in 2014. Our Big Data 
Analytics product, Fusionex Insights (GIANT), continued to go from 
strength to strength, driven by the accelerating interest in Big 
Data Analytics across a wide range of sectors and underpinned 
by our growing number of channel partnerships. We ended the 
year with a record number of enterprise client wins for GIANT, a 
total of 36 cumulative clients, which was well ahead of our target 
of 30 GIANT clients by the end of FY2015. This also led to our 
FY2015 results being ahead of market expectations.
Our Product Offerings
Having achieved considerable success in 2014 for the then new 
GIANT product, we started the year under review (FY2015) with 
a bang to accelerate the adoption of our GIANT Big Data Analytics 
product. It is particularly pleasing, therefore, to see that we 
exceeded our targets by every measure. Key highlights include 
marquee contract wins such as those from clients of varied 
verticals including: Brother Industries, Intel, AEON as well as the 
announced Smart Government initiative, just to name a few. 
We also benefited from quality channel partnerships in FY2015 
with the likes of Avnet, EMC, Microsoft/Revolution Analytics, etc. 
In FY2015, over 30% of revenue has come through our channel 
partners, demonstrating the effectiveness of the channel 
partner programme that we have developed, a marked increase 
from the previous year. This has led to a change in profile of our 
receivables due to the strategic development of our sales model, 
the success of which has been demonstrated by our new and 
exciting partner channels, which are fundamental to the next 
stage of our growth. It is noteworthy that we have continued to 
build our channels to market, with a new partnership during the 
year announced with Mesiniaga Berhad, a leading ICT solutions 
provider and systems integrator in Malaysia, listed on the Main 
Market of Bursa Malaysia, and a new strategic partnership post-
period with Dell, a global leading technology business, to provide 
its customers in Asia with GIANT.
Our GIANT contracts are typically multi-year deals; clients are 
attracted by the ability of GIANT to deliver Big Data initiatives 
easily and flexibly in any environment, whether on premises, in 
the Cloud or via a hybrid of the two. A key driver for our clients is 
the need for their employees to be able to access virtually any 
data source, and translate such data into actionable insights 
delivering business value. We have again invested in GIANT 
during the year to enhance its functionality, usability and reach 
further in line with our vision and market demands. 
The Company continues to invest significantly in R&D as we build 
out new features for GIANT. GIANT is all about discovering and 
actioning on data. At the forefront, the GIANT user experience is 
elegant, simple and self-service oriented. Behind the scenes, 
Fusionex’s engineering masks the underlying technology 
complexity, allowing GIANT to effectively address the core  STRATEGIC REPORT
Fusionex International Plc Annual report 2015 05
challenges of Big Data. Masking the complexity allows Fusionex 
to address the frustrations that Big Data Generation 1 customers 
have with the complexities of generating return on investments. 
GIANT provides the full spectrum of analytics ranging from 
descriptive analytics (i.e. what happened?), advanced 
visualisation and diagnostic analytics (i.e. why did it happen?), 
predictive analytics (sharing what could happen) as well as 
prescriptive analytics (suggested courses of action based on 
analytics). This allows for a speedy, simple, seamless transition 
that masks the complexity of the Apache Hadoop environment, 
amplifying the user-friendly nature of the product. We believe 
that these differentiators will continue to drive growth and an 
even greater adoption rate moving forward.
As the Company moves into the new financial year, trading is 
strong  and rapidly accelerating. The Company has recorded a 
number of notable enterprise wins post-period which have been 
recently announced.
The Big Data Market Backdrop and the Internet of Things
The blue-chip nature of our client base and our channel 
partners,  mentioned above, reflects a marked and growing 
demand for effective, differentiated Big Data Analytics products. 
Strong growth in demand is expected to continue, with the Big 
Data technology and services market forecasted to achieve a 
compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 23.1% to 2019, where 
annual spending is predicted to reach $48.6 billion in 2019 
(source: IDC). 
This demonstrates the scale of the market opportunity for 
Fusionex and we anticipate that as the Big Data market matures, 
we will see demand underpinned by business leaders seeking 
actionable insights and tangible returns on investment. Indeed, 
Gartner has noted the trend of a shift in the role of initiators of 
Big Data projects within an organisation in 2015. Gartner found 
that business unit heads were almost as likely to initiate Big Data 
projects as Chief Information Officers in 2015, with 31% of 
projects initiated by business unit heads and 32% by Chief 
Information Officers, compared to 25% and 37% respectively in 
2014. GIANT is well placed to benefit from this trend, providing 
an easy-to-use interface which enables users to derive actionable 
insights and foresight from huge amounts of data analysed and 
processed in a fast and efficient manner.
Also supporting the substantial growth in demand is the impact 
of the IoT. IDC has forecasted that IoT analytics will be hot, with a 
five-year CAGR of 30%, and that the IoT will be the next critical 
focus for data analytics services. The International Institute of 
Analytics has in turn commented that while the IoT trend has 
focused on the data generation and production (sensors) side of 
the equation, the “Analytics of Things” is a particular form of Big 
Data Analytics that often  involves anomaly detection and 
“bringing analytics to life”.
The number of connected devices is predicted to grow from 3 
billion to 25 billion in three years’ time. In tandem with that, 
worldwide spending on IoT is forecasted to grow from $698.6 
billion in 2015 to nearly $1.3 trillion in 2019 (source: IDC). Notably, 
IDC highlights Asia Pacific as the region that’s leading the way 
with IoT, accounting for more than 40% of the total spend on IoT 
in 2015. With the proliferation of devices, organisations 
increasingly need to leverage the vast quantities of data created 
to create business value and this will continue to boost spending 
on Big Data Analytics. In short, data growth is outpacing data 
analytics, thus creating a great opportunity ahead for Fusionex 
in this growing space.
Growth Strategy
Utilising our unique Analytics and Big Data products, Fusionex is 
poised to ride the Big Data wave to provide high business value 
software solutions to existing and new customers in this fast 
growing market space. The Company will continue to focus on 
growth by leveraging on our existing customer/install base to 
cross-sell innovative and newer versions of our products as well 
as growth from new customer acquisitions through our proven 
track record, strong offerings and solid value proposition. At the 
same time, through continual establishment of our 
partner channel network, we will leverage this ecosystem and 
indirect sales channel to reach out to a wider audience. Finally, 
we also look towards accelerating growth by addressing new 
geographies.
Outlook
Looking ahead, we see exciting opportunities for our business, 
especially from our upcoming releases of GIANT, as well as 
exciting new market segments and geographies. Demand for Big 
Data products continues to accelerate across a diverse range of 
sectors and geographies, reinforced by the growth of connected 
devices (IoT) and the need for organisations to convert data into 
business value.
We are now investing in all aspects of our business to dramatically 
accelerate revenue growth and thereby take advantage of the 
current market opportunities.
The year has started strongly with new wins already secured for 
GIANT, as announced, coupled with a very strong pipeline and 
therefore the outlook for 2016 and beyond is positive and 
exciting for Fusionex.
Ivan Teh
Chief Executive Officer 
20 January 2016
