 Chairman’s Statement
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘Quality in absolutely everything. ’
Michael Turner 
Chairman
2  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 This year sees the 170th anniversary of the Fuller, Smith & 
Turner partnership – and I’m delighted to announce that 
we are celebrating with another set of excellent results and 
a business that is in great shape to embark on the next chapter 
in our story. The team has yet again delivered in all areas and 
I congratulate them all for their dedication, creativity and 
hard work.
Our  Made of London  campaign has   helped to drive sales of our flagship   brand and we were delighted when   it received two awards in the inaugural   Beer Marketing Awards this year.
By continuing to focus on our clear vision,   to create and operate the most stylish pubs   and hotels whilst brewing Britain’s most coveted   premium brands for discerning customers   both at home and abroad , we have seen total   revenue increase by 12% to £321.5 million (2014:   £288.0 million) and a resulting increase in   adjusted profit before tax of 7% to £36.4 million   (2014: £34.1 million). One of the key figures for our   shareholders is adjusted earnings per share, which   I am pleased to say has risen by 10% to 51.51p   (2014: 46.94p).   Once again, we have outperformed the market   with our Managed Pubs and Hotels, which have   seen total sales grow 15%, like for like sales increase   by 6.3%, and profits
3
 rise by 11%. We have invested   significantly in our estate and added eight new   pubs in a variety of interesting locations including   our first airside pub, at Heathrow Terminal 2,   and two new sites on the River Thames. A new   recruitment website has improved the way we   attract and hire team members and, having invested   in our training and development programmes for   some years, I am delighted to see some high profile   internal promotions during the year.
Our Tenanted Inns have been star performers   with exceptional results and like for like profits   rising by 5%. Total profits have risen by 2% and   this has come during a difficult period for the   tenanted model. Tenanted Director Mike Clist   has played a lead role in representing both Fuller’s   and the wider industry in recent negotiations   with Government and I was delighted to see his   commitment honoured when he was recognised   for his Outstanding Contribution to the Industry   at the  Publican Awards .
It has also been a good year for the Fuller’s Beer   Company, with total beer and cider volumes   rising by 4% and profits rising by 2%. The  Made of   London campaign for our flagship ale London   Pride has driven sales, we launched a delicious   new golden ale, Oliver’s Island, grew Frontier   Craft  Lager sales to make it our second biggest   brand in the UK and expanded distribution of   the premier American craft beer, Sierra Nevada.   I would also like to thank The Chancellor for his   third consecutive cut in beer duty, which has   done much to reverse the damage done by the   dreaded duty escalator.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to announce a final dividend   of  10.20p  (2014:  9.30p)  per  40p  ‘A’  and  ‘C’  ordinary  share and 1.02p (2014: 0.93p) per 4p ‘B’ ordinary   share.  This  will  be  paid  on  27  July  2015  to  shareholders  on the share register as at 26 June 2015. The total   dividend per share of 16.60p per 40p ‘A’ and ‘C’   ordinary share and 1.66p per 4p ordinary share   represents a 10% increase on last year and will   be covered more than three times by adjusted   earnings per share.   Michael Turner 
Chairman
4 June 2015
3
    Operating profit before exceptional items.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  3
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
