  
 
 
Group operating profit by division
1
 £m
Fuller’s Managed Pubs and Hotels 25.0
Fuller’s Tenanted Inns 12.6
Fuller’s Beer Company 8.7
1
Excludes central costs.
 
 
 
Managed and Tenanted houses
Managed pubs within M25 113
Tenanted pubs within M25 58
Tenanted pubs outside M25 145
Managed pubs outside M25 75
 
 
 
Total beer and cider barrels by channel
 %
Fuller’s Tenanted Inns 11.4
Fuller’s Managed Pubs and Hotels 22.1
Free On Trade 39.5
Off Trade 13.4
Exports 13.6
At a Glance
Nikki Cooper, Founder, The Stable
Nikki Cooper, with husband Richard and brother 
in law Andy, founded The Stable in 2009 when they 
decided to put to use a dilapidated outbuilding at 
their Bridport Hotel. Focusing on an extensive range 
of craft ciders and gourmet pizzas made with local 
ingredients, the trio had six restaurants in 2014 when 
Fuller’s took a 51% stake. This investment will take 
The Stable to a wider audience with two more 
restaurants already open and exciting growth plans 
for the future.
Managed Pubs and Hotels
Managed Pubs and Hotels are operated   by Fuller’s employees and include     188 pubs and hotels. Our acquisitions     are carefully targeted towards prime   locations in market towns with our target   demographics, high footfall locations in   transport hubs and iconic pubs in our   home city of London.
Our estate is primarily in the South and   South East of the UK and includes 113 pubs  within the M25. We focus on freshly   prepared seasonal food and an aspirational   premium drinks range, delivered with   exceptional service and in a stylish and   comfortable environment. This year we   acquired The Stable, a craft cider and   gourmet pizza business, which operates   seven sites in the South West of the UK.
Tenanted Inns
The Tenanted Inns division has 203 pubs,   where the individual pubs are run by   self-employed  entrepreneurs,  who  work  in partnership with us, selling our beer   and operating under the Fuller’s brand.
We offer our tenants a high level of support,   including a variety of tools and services     to help them grow their businesses.     This includes a bespoke website,     a property compliance package,     free WiFi and subsidised training for     their staff.
The Fuller’s Beer Company
As London’s longest standing brewer,     we continually bring new products to   market whilst proudly brewing the UK’s   No.1 premium ale, London Pride.     We proactively develop our portfolio     of beers, providing variety and interest     for consumers, producing a different   seasonal ale every month.   Cornish Orchards produces a range   of premium award-winning ciders and   a range of distinctive soft drinks.
We directly deliver our own beer and   cider, as well as other drinks products to   our pubs and our free trade customers in   the South East. Our customers value the   high quality service we provide.
188
Managed Pubs and Hotels
203
Tenanted Inns
No. 1
Premium ale in the UK
4  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Helping us realise our 
dreams of expansion. ’
Nikki Cooper 
Founder, The Stable 
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  5
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ An active part of the 
local community.’
Reverend Andrew Downes 
Curate, St Nicholas Church
6  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015
