 Overall 2015 was another year of 
positive progress for the Company.
STRATEGIC REPORT
Fusionex International Plc Annual report 2015 03
Chairman’s statement
with John Croft
in this aspect of our business is critical to driving sales growth, 
and I am, therefore, particularly pleased to note that the second 
half of the year showed strong momentum in this area. Since the 
year end we have also announced a strategic partnership with 
Dell, about which we are very excited, and we are confident that 
it will generate significant new business opportunities by 
combining the skills from both companies and creating a powerful, 
scalable and efficient Big Data Analytics platform.
Fusionex’s achievements in the IT industry have once again been 
recognised this year. Fusionex has won the Microsoft Global 
Partnership award for an unprecedented fourth consecutive year. 
We were also the winner of the highly coveted Asian-Oceania 
Computing ICT Organisation (ASOCIO) award for Outstanding ICT 
Company. Additionally, Fusionex was a finalist in the AIM 
International Company of the Year 2015 award, demonstrating 
the high regard in which the Company is held amongst the 
investment community and our success in completing our stated 
goals since our London IPO. This was also underpinned by the 
heavily oversubscribed share placement in October 2015 to 
support the Company’s plan to accelerate sales growth in the 
years ahead.
With regard to the market in which we operate, leading technology 
research groups such as Gartner, Forrester and IDC all predict 
that data analytics will continue to be a key focus globally. More 
and more companies are realising the importance of data analytics 
and “data-driven decision making” as being the key to success 
and survival of companies in this modern era. The emergence of 
the phenomenon of the Internet of Things (IoT) will also propel 
Big Data Analytics to even greater heights, with the number of 
connected devices predicted to grow from 3 billion to 25 billion 
in three years’ time. This dynamic environment will provide the 
impetus and catalyst which will continue to drive the need for Big 
Data Analytics where demand is growing exponentially and where 
Fusionex remains a key driving force in the industry.
Overall 2015 was another year of very positive progress for your 
Company, with strong momentum in the second half of the year 
as GIANT became fully deployed and built substantial momentum 
and industry recognition. We are excited by the opportunities 
facing the Company in many different customer sectors and 
through both direct and indirect sales channels. Our Board plans 
to continue to invest in all areas of the business to ensure we are 
well placed to take full advantage of these. 
I am confident that we will be able to deliver another successful 
outcome this year and I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank all of our staff for their outstanding achievements and 
hard work over the past year. I would also like to thank you, our 
shareholders, for your continued support.
John Croft
Non-Executive Chairman
20 January 2016
I am delighted to report on another very successful year for our 
Company, during which we have once again delivered positive 
results ahead of market expectations. With Asia Pacific 
accounting for the bulk of our sales, revenues have grown 35% 
to RM77.0 million with EBITDA increasing by 29% to RM35.0 
million. We have also maintained a strong balance sheet with a 
healthy operating cash flow, despite the substantial investments 
that we have made in our technology, infrastructure and people 
over the past year to support our forecast growth levels in the 
years ahead. Our results have been driven by sales of our 
flagship Big Data product, GIANT, which has seen a very strong 
take-up from customers, with 36 cumulative clients during the 
year against an original objective of 30. It is also very pleasing to 
note the calibre of these clients, many of them blue-chip, global 
organisations, which once again demonstrates the quality and 
the unique characteristics of our GIANT product.
During the year we continued to make significant investments 
across divisions including sales, marketing and, in particular, R&D 
to ensure we maintain and improve the competitive positioning 
of our core products. The benefits of this have been evidenced 
by the quality and quantity of the new business wins which we 
have been able to achieve during the year. Additionally, I am very 
pleased to report that our major initiative to develop the indirect 
sales partner channel has seen very positive results. Development 
