  %
2015 5
2014 2
2013 1
 %
2015 6.3
2014 8.3
2013 2.1
Chief Executive’s Review
It has been another year of excellent progress for the Company 
and I am delighted to be reporting growth in all three areas of 
the business. Our Managed Pubs and Hotels business continues 
to outperform the industry, the Fuller’s Beer Company 
has seen growth in all channels and our Tenanted business 
has had an outstanding year.
We have a robust business model that has   continuously evolved over time, keeping us at the   forefront of our industry and providing a base for   us to always look for new opportunities to keep   the business fresh, relevant and in a strong position  to grow for the future. These opportunities have   to complement our overall vision to provide a first   class experience for discerning customers.
To that end, we have built on our acquisition   of Cornish Orchards Cider in 2013 with the   acquisition of a 51% stake in The Stable, a craft   cider and gourmet pizza business. This unique   operation, which comprised six sites when we   initially invested, is a perfect   fit  with  our  Company.  Run by the inspirational  founders,  Richard  and  Nikki Cooper, we have already opened more sites   and The Stable has an exciting future ahead.   Following our acquisition of the UK distribution   rights in 2014, we have more than doubled   distribution of Sierra Nevada. Founded by   Ken Grossman in Chico, California in 1979, Sierra   Nevada is another like-minded family business   and is revered by the beer fraternity worldwide.   It  complements our own and agency ranges,  offering yet another original and authentic brand   for customers both in our own pubs and the wider   free trade.
All of this activity is supported by the best people   in the industry. This year has seen a big advance   in the way we recruit team members for our pubs   and we have increased the investment we make   in training and developing our people across all   parts of the business. This combination of a clear   strategy, the flexibility and financial firepower   to take advantage of new opportunities and   the recruitment, development and retention   of excellent people will ensure Fuller’s continues   to lead the market.
Fuller’s Inns
Fuller’s Inns has again led the Company’s growth   with like for like sales in our Managed Pubs and   Hotels rising by 6.3% and operating profit
4
 growing   by 11% to £25.0 million (2014: £22.5 million). Our   Tenanted Inns have also had a fantastic year, with   like for like profits rising by 5% and average EBITDA  per pub rising by 5%. We have long extolled the   virtues of having a balanced business and it is   very pleasing to see both parts of the retail business   performing at a high level. At the year end, we had   188 Managed Pubs and Hotels and 203 Tenanted   Inns, making a total estate of 391 sites.
During the year, we have added eight new sites to   our estate. Two of these, The Blue Boat on Fulham   Reach and One Over the Ait on Kew Bridge, have   fantastic views across the River Thames, while   The Windmill in Portishead overlooks the Severn   Estuary. We also took on the The Cromwell Arms   in Romsey and The Bull Hotel in Bridport, which   added a further 29 bedrooms to our business, and   we opened two more sites at transport hubs – The   Three Guineas, an acquisition at Reading Station   and London’s Pride, a new development at The   Queen’s Terminal (Terminal 2), Heathrow. The eighth   site is a true icon – The Harp in Covent Garden,   a former CAMRA Pub of the Year where we are   committed to maintaining the wide and interesting   range of breweries represented on the bar.
In addition, we have invested a record amount in   our largest ever number of projects across our   existing estate. Over £18 million has been invested  in projects in both our managed and tenanted   businesses. Of particular note is The Admiralty,   the only pub on Trafalgar Square, which we   opened on Trafalgar Day in October last year.   The pub beautifully evokes the history and   heritage of its location and, with its Ale & Pie   format, is already proving very popular with   Londoners and tourists alike.
Tenanted like for like profits
+5%
Managed like for like sales
+6.3%
4
    Operating profit before exceptional items.
8  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Leading the best team 
in the industry. ’
Simon Emeny 
Chief Executive
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  9 Chief Executive’s Review continued
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ A great career in a flagship pub . ’
Kate Ross 
Manager, One Over the Ait, Kew Bridge
10  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Kate Ross, Manager, One Over the Ait, Kew Bridge
Kate Ross joined Fuller’s three years ago as deputy 
manager at the Turk’s Head in Twickenham. After 
just 18 months, she was appointed to her first 
management position. Today, Kate is the manager at 
One Over the Ait – a flagship, riverside development 
on Kew Bridge. With two trading floors, plenty of 
outside seating and a team of 30 to support her, 
the future has never looked brighter.
Every pint of our Seafarer’s Ale bought   helps raise money for Seafarers UK,   a charity vital to supporting the UK’s   maritime community. Last year’s sales   raised over £32,000 for the charity.   Managed Pubs and Hotels
Our Managed Pubs and Hotels continue to   outperform the industry with another year of   strong like for like growth of 6.3%, generating total   revenues of £213.8 million (2014: £186.0 million) –   an increase of 15%. Our operating profits increased   by 11% to £25.0 million (2014: £22.5 million),   reflecting the increased capital investment in our   estate and 108 weeks of closure while these   redevelopments took place. Next year, we intend   to continue this programme with an even greater   number of projects scheduled.   Acquisitions and investment in our current pubs   have helped to realise our vision of creating and   operating stylish pubs with a focus on delicious,   fresh cooked food and an excellent portfolio   of premium drinks. Our sales have increased     in all areas of the business – like for like food sales   are up by 7.8%, drinks sales are up 5.6% and   accommodation has risen by 7.3%.   The performance of our Managed Pubs was   recognised by the industry at this year’s  Publican  Awards, where we took the title of Managed Pub   Company of the Year. We also picked up a second   award  in  recognition  of  the  high  standard  of  our  food  and the way in which we train our chefs and work   with our suppliers. In addition, we were recognised   for the quality of our capital investment programme   at the  Restaurant and Bar Design Awards , where   both The Vintry at Cannon Street and the Tap on   the Line at Kew Gardens station picked up trophies.   Finally, London’s Pride at Heathrow’s Terminal 2 was   awarded the title Best Destination Opening at the   CGA  Peach Hero & Icon Awards .  Digital marketing of both food and occasions   has increased during the year and we have had a   particular focus on responding to online feedback.   We offer new customers who sign up to our   database a welcome email with a free pint on   offer and we are seeing opening rates of 70%, way   above the norm. Fuller’s was one of the very early   adopters of online table bookings in the pub   sector and, combined with our dedicated events   sales team, our managers have the tools they   need to attract diners and functions and the   customer has a simple and quick route to finding   and booking a suitable venue.
Our food sales continue to be a key driver in our   Managed Pubs and Hotels. Over the last four   years, we have been improving the way we recruit   and train chefs and kitchen teams and this has   included the chef scholarship programme, which   offers three levels aimed at developing the head   chefs of the future. The programme has been very   well received with 70 team members taking part   in at least one level in the last year – bringing the   total since the programme started in 2012 to over   200. We are one of the only companies where   everyone from the kitchen porter upwards   benefits from a training programme and this   year two of our head chefs were promoted to   management roles as executive chefs.
This investment in training extends right through   service, food, cellar and beer quality and even   coffee – where The Fields, our one and only coffee   shop,  located  in  Ealing,  provides  a  venue  for  barista  training. We are now selling around 1.2 million cups   of hot beverages every year and this has grown by   10% in the last year. Our coffee is also available   Only at Fuller’s  and the blend was chosen by the   coffee masters at Matthew Algie, the gourmet   coffee roaster, in conjunction with the Fuller’s   brewing manager, Georgina Young.   Working with our suppliers has also enabled us to   offer a series of master classes to our chefs on   topics from butchery to strawberries. This continued   commitment to fresh food, cooked to a high   standard of taste and presentation, developing our   people through formal training and informal sessions   with suppliers, has resulted in higher customer   advocacy and sales growth. We have also improved  our food marketing, with interesting campaigns   revolving around seasonal ingredients and flavours.
Finally, we also continued with our  Only at Fuller’s   range, introducing a delicious Sipsmith’s Gin   Lemon  Cake  among other products. Our   London  Porter  Smoked Salmon was available at   the Cheltenham Festival and during the year we   sold  over  70,000  Vintage Ale Sticky Toffee   Puddings. We also launched   the  Fuller’s  Chip  Off  to find the best chips in our Managed Pubs – The   Pilot in Chiswick is the current holder of this title.
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  11
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Chief Executive’s Review continued
Cookie, Severn & Wye Smokery
We teamed up with Richard Cook, or Cookie as he’s 
better known, in 2012. He took a range of our beers 
and decided to see what flavours they could create 
when smoked with his excellent salmon. Our 
London Porter came out tops and now London 
Porter smoked salmon is the best-selling starter in 
our managed pubs and it’s available in Fortnum & 
Mason too.
The success of our pubs is totally dependent   on our people and this year we launched a new   recruitment  website,  with  full  mobile  optimisation,  which we believe is a game changer in the hunt   to secure the best talent. The online recruitment   process includes a situational judgement test that   identifies people with a talent for exceptional   customer service. The system ensures that our   managers only interview suitable candidates   and, by hiring better, we are already seeing team   members staying longer which, we believe, has   been a key driver of the significant increase in our   Net Promoter Score. In the first 10 months of the   new recruitment website, over 17,000 completed   applications were received and over 1,700 candidates   were hired.   In line with our growth, I am particularly delighted   this year to see an increasing number of internal   promotions, both to general manager within our   pubs and also into head office positions. Having   the right people in the right places is the key to   a successful business. Nowhere is this personified   better than in Gerry O’Brien who has been the   manager of The Churchill Arms in Kensington   for 30 years. We were delighted this year when   he was nominated for a Tourism Superstar Award   by the  Daily Mirror .
Our acquisition of a 51% stake in The Stable in June   2014 was a new direction for Fuller’s, although one   that had much in common with our vision and   ethos. The Stable is a craft cider and gourmet   pizza business, based in the South West of England.  It had, at the time of our investment, six sites and   we opened one more during the year – in Falmouth.   In addition, we have opened a site in Plymouth,   right on the Barbican waterfront, since the year end.   While the concept appeals to a younger, more   female demographic than our traditional estate,   the commitment to quality, fresh ingredients and   local produce is synonymous with our existing   business. We have already helped to grow this   brand by adding depth to the head office support   team and using our property expertise to identify   new sites. We now have agreed or completed   deals on six sites in Winchester, Whitechapel,   Southampton, Cardiff, Exeter and Cheltenham,   as well as moving from our existing location to   a larger and more prominent site in Bath.
We believe The Stable is a logical step in Fuller’s   evolution, following on from our acquisition of   Cornish Orchards. The brand broadens our appeal  and exposure to growing parts of the market in a   way that is totally aligned to our commitment to   authenticity  and  quality.  It  is  also  a  fitting  showcase  for the Cornish Orchards’ brands and for Fuller’s   brands such as Frontier Craft Lager. There has   been some considerable up front investment but   the potential for The Stable to deliver good   returns  in the future offers a great opportunity.   Tenanted Inns
It has been a fantastic year for our Tenanted Inns   business with like for like profits rising by 5% and   total profits rising by 2% to £12.6 million (2014:   £12.3 million). Average EBITDA per pub has also   risen by 5%, with total EBITDA increasing by 2%   to £14.2 million (2014: £13.9 million). Three pubs,   The Duke of York in Tunbridge Wells, The Bear &   Ragged Staff in Romsey and Grand Central in   Brighton, have been transferred to the managed   estate and two pubs have been sold.   It has been a turbulent time for many tenanted   businesses and, although we are well below the   500  pub  threshold  for  Market  Only  Rent  to  become  a reality, we will be watching the changes to the   market place with interest. In the meantime,   we continue to focus on building a strong and   supportive partnership with our tenants and this is   reflected in the fact that almost 90% of our estate   is on a substantive agreement and over 80% of   tenants are signed up for our service charge   package, which provides a number of services   including health and safety workplace assessments,   chimney flue maintenance and fire risk assessments.   Exports
Asia Pacific  17.0%
Africa  0. 3%
North America  21.9%
South America   7.3%
Europe  50.1%  Middle East  3.4%
12  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ My fish, your beer –  
the perfect combination. ’
Cookie 
 Severn & Wye Smokery
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  13
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview Chief Executive’s Review continued
My Fuller’ s ...
 ‘ Bringing the world of wine 
to your local pub. ’
Pippa Penny 
Wine Development Manager
14  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 Pippa Penny, Wine Development Manager
Pippa started at Fuller’s in 2010 when she joined the 
team at The Vintry, a pub with an extensive list of 160 
wines, as deputy manager. She has now progressed 
her love of grape by taking a head office role, 
bringing great wines to all our Managed Pubs. One of 
Pippa’s favourites is the Les Cents Verres Grenache 
Rosé – available Only at Fuller’s.
Fuller’s Organic Honey Dew – the   UK’s number one selling Organic Beer   – has been given a more modern look,   with lighter colours to convey natural   ingredients, and the golden ale   description more visible to appeal   to a wider audience.
As with any business, the key to success is attracting   and retaining the right tenants. To provide better   support to new tenants, we have changed the way   we operate so our recruiter also manages the   tenant relationship for the first six months to add   some continuity to the process. New tenants are   given a tenant mentor to help answer any questions   and our ever-improving extranet provides helpful   services such as menu templates and wine list   planning. We also offer a free WiFi service to   our Tenanted Inns and 92% of our tenants take   advantage of this service.
We provide full training and tenants have to   undertake a number of courses within the first six   months. Two thirds of the cost of this is returned   to the tenants, so long as they complete the   courses in the suggested timescale. Well trained   tenants run more successful businesses,   completing a virtuous circle.
Other tenant benefits that have recently been   introduced include an improved website service   for their own pub websites and, following the duty   cuts on alcohol in the last budget, we immediately   passed all these duty savings on in full. Our new   beers are proving popular with our tenants and   provide yet another point of difference for their pubs.
In addition, by investing in our tenanted business   through our capital expenditure programme during   the recession, our tenants are better placed to build   trade in a stronger economy and it is this joint   commitment to building successful, sustainable   businesses that has resulted in a good financial   return for both the Company and the tenant.   The Fuller’s Beer Company
The Fuller’s Beer Company has also had a good   year with total beer and cider volumes up 4%   and revenue up by 6% to £122.9 million (2014:   £115.8 million). Operating profit grew 2% to   £8.7 million (2014: £8.5 million), after increased   marketing costs of £0.4 million. Sales are up across   all channels and London Pride has seen volume   grow by 1% against a cask ale market decline of 4%.   We have also won several awards, increased sales   across our product range, rebranded two of our   popular beers and launched Oliver’s Island, an exciting   new golden ale.   The London Pride  Made of London  advertising   campaign entered phase four during the year,   which included a very successful media promotion  with the  Evening Standard . The package involved   a series of intimate events with celebrities such as   Blur bassist Alex James, rugby legend Jason Leonard   and DJ Jo Whiley, with tickets available only   through the  Evening Standard . The events were   a resounding success and it was supported with   a series of features on ordinary Londoners who   bring style, interest and dedication to our Capital.   This activity was supported by a poster campaign   across London and on tube platforms with iconic   photography and social media support such as   #DropOfPride and #EmptyPint. The first of these   encourages offices and companies to put themselves   forward for a delivery of London Pride on the last   Friday of every month. Recipients have comprised   a variety of businesses including the set of   Downton  Abbey. The #EmptyPint promotion was a   short  term Twitter promotion where drinkers who   tweeted a photo of their empty pint glass,   immediately received a code to get a free pint. It   was our most successful digital campaign to date   and gained over five million impressions and a   redemption rate of 54%.   We were delighted when the  Made of London   campaign was recognised at the inaugural Beer   Marketing Awards. It picked up the prize for Best   Media Campaign – Print as well as the Grand Prix   Award for the best overall marketing campaign,   garnering high praise from the judges in the process.   Our other beer brands have also fared well.   Organic Honey Dew is the number one organic   ale in both on and off trade markets and we have   given  it  a  more up to date look and livery, with new   glassware, to enhance its organic credentials.   Seafarers continues to sell well and over £37,000   was raised during the year for the Seafarers charity   through sales of this beer. Frontier also performed   well,  with sales and distribution increasing and the   brand continues to be a firm favourite at numerous   food and music events, as well as festivals in general,   bringing Fuller’s beer to a younger market. Frontier   is now our second biggest brand in the UK.
Cornish Orchards has seen cider sales rise during   the year with increased distribution through new   trading channels in the on and off trades. The   investments we have made in additional capacity   are now on stream and our ciders are picking up   awards including a gold medal for Cornish Gold   at the International Cider Awards.   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  15
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview  (’000) Brls
2015 348.4
2014 334.1
2013 332.1
 £m
2015 56.9
2014 38.1
2013 31.1
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Fuller’s brand new Golden Ale, Oliver’s   Island, is a harmony of citrus, floral hops   and golden malt. Drawing inspiration   from a local landmark less than three   miles from the brewery, it was launched   at the opening of the Blue Boat on   Fulham Reach in March 2015 and is   already proving popular.
Joe Clarke, The Sun, Richmond
Joe, and wife Margy, have been the tenants at 
The Sun for 30 years and over those years the pub 
has become synonymous with rugby. No trip to 
Twickenham is complete without a pint or two in 
The Sun. Jason Leonard even donated his first ever 
professional pay cheque to adorn the pub’s walls. 
Margy’s BBQs, served in the pub’s exceptional beer 
garden, are just as legendary and help satisfy the 
appetites of the rugby fraternity.
The integration of Sierra Nevada has also proved   successful and sales are rising. The creation   of Westside Drinks as a stand-alone business,   supported by Fuller’s, to sell Frontier and our   agency brands to a very vibrant end of the market   is proving successful and we are looking forward   to developing this further. In addition, our wine   business has also benefited from the long term   trend of better quality food in pubs and our free   trade wine sales have grown during the year.   Finally, we also launched a new golden ale –   Oliver’s Island. Named after an island in the   Thames close to our Chiswick Brewery, Oliver’s   Island has had a very good initial reception and is   selling better than our most optimistic forecast.   Oliver’s Island is brewed with golden malt, orange   peel and floral and citrus hops, and is supported   with eye-catching branding and bespoke glassware.   Final Salary Scheme
We closed our final salary pension scheme to new   members in August 2005. During the year, the   Company concluded a period of consultation   with the Trustees and Members of that scheme.   As a result, the scheme closed to future accrual   with effect from 1 January 2015. The closure   resulted in a one-off curtailment gain of £1.2 million  in the year, which has been recognised as an   exceptional item.   Current Trading and Prospects
The new financial year has got off to a good start   with solid sales for the nine weeks to 30 May 2015.   Like for like sales in our Managed Pubs and Hotels   have risen by 5.5% and like for like profits in our   Tenanted Inns have risen by 2%. Beer and cider   volumes have decreased by 2%.
Since the year end, we have purchased The King’s   Head in Earl’s Court Village and opened a new site   for The Stable on the waterfront in Plymouth. We   are looking forward to opening another riverside   pub, The Sail Loft on Greenwich Reach, later this   year and we have plans to open at least another   four sites for The Stable.   We have launched phase five of the  Made of   London campaign for London Pride and used our   passion for quality and the brewers daily tasting of   London Pride at 12 noon to launch #Tweetat12.   This latest social media promotion offered our   fans a chance to tweet between 12.00 and 12.12 to   receive a pint of London Pride with our compliments.   We have taken on new companies, new brands   and new ideas over the last two years and while   they have all started well, the best is yet to come.   We are looking forward to completing the   integration of these new businesses and building   for our future. We will also continue to invest   heavily in our existing pub estate and develop   our range of brands.
We have a successful business model, interesting   fledgling opportunities, a first class, predominately   freehold estate, a team with passion and ability   and a very healthy balance sheet. This gives me   confidence that we will continue to deliver strong   results for our customers, our employees and   our shareholders.
Simon Emeny 
Chief Executive
4 June 2015
Beer Company total beer & cider barrels
348,400+4%
Capital expenditure
£56.9m+49%
16  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015 My Fuller’ s ...
‘Beer, BBQs and boisterous rugby boys. ’
Joe Clarke 
The Sun, Richmond
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2015  17
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
