 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT 
Dear fellow shareholders 
During the course of 2015 the Group 
expanded its market share in the United 
States, our key geographic market, by 
securing additional US land-based casinos 
as clients of either virtual currency-based 
Simulated Gaming™ or traditional real 
money regulated gaming conducted on 
an intra-State basis. In September 2015 
the Group rebranded from GameAccount 
Network to GAN and launched 
www.GAN.com as our primary business 
to business sales, marketing and investor 
relations portal. On 7 April 2016 the 
Group announced that it had successfully 
raised gross proceeds of £2.6m in new 
capital to continue expansion of real-
money regulated gaming and Simulated 
Gaming™ opportunities in the US and 
for working capital and general business 
development purposes. 
As has been widely reported, regulated 
real money Internet gaming in New Jersey 
has been slow to attract consumers for a 
variety of reasons. Despite challenges, the 
Group has executed well and delivered 
operationally for Betfair Group plc in New 
Jersey, earning a well-deserved reputation 
in the United States for technical 
competence reflecting the reputation 
already hard earned in Europe’s toughest 
regulated Internet gaming markets. This 
reputation has translated into additional 
business secured in December 2015 for 
GAN in New Jersey with the market-
leading land-based New Jersey operator 
The Borgata Casino nominating GAN as 
their future platform for regulated real 
money Internet gaming in 2016, subject to 
certain contractual conditions being met.
Y our Board of Directors believes there 
is a significant opportunity for Simulated 
Gaming™ in the United States. It has 
outperformed initial expectations and, 
in the absence of further State-by-State 
real-money gaming regulation, Simulated 
Gaming™ has become the centrepiece of 
the Group’s growth strategy . We signed 
five major land-based US casinos as new 
clients in 2015 with four US casino clients 
commercially launched in the same period. 
Outside the United States, the Group also 
commercially launched a consortium of six 
land-based gaming clubs in Queensland, 
Australia as clients of Simulated Gaming™ 
in a new geographic region for the Group 
which we believe will prove lucrative 
over time. We are excited about the 
prospects for Simulated Gaming™ and 
the performance we have achieved 
since its initial launch together with the 
increasingly compelling business case that 
Simulated Gaming™ , suitably integrated 
with land-based casino operators’ loyalty 
programmes, greatly supports our clients’ 
core business of on-property real money 
gaming. We are also confident in the long-
term potential for real money regulated 
gaming, however , we believe intra-State 
regulation in the US market will continue to 
be slower than was originally anticipated.
Our consistent progress in 2015, with 
our core products of Simulated Gaming™ 
and regulated gaming in sustainable 
markets,  in what was a year of continued 
investment for GAN as we developed both 
our real money regulated gaming and 
Simulated Gaming™ offering, would not 
have been possible without the dedicated 
and talented staff employed by the Group 
in both London and throughout the United 
States. I thank them for their continued 
efforts and believe the Group has become 
established as a major Internet gaming 
technology, infrastructure and services 
provider to land-based casinos in the 
United States, consistent with the strategy 
set out during the Group’s Initial Public 
Offering completed in November 2013.
After two years building our market 
position we are satisfied the Group is 
now recognised as a leading provider of 
enterprise-level online solutions to the 
land-based gaming industry in the United 
States and believe significant shareholder 
value will develop going forwards as 
New Jersey’s regulated gaming market 
continues to grow and Simulated Gaming™ 
continues to be adopted by a portfolio 
of larger US casino operator clients of 
which some may be capable of investing 
in significant user acquisition marketing.
David O’Reilly, Chairman,  
GameAccount Network plc
28 April 2016
GameAccount Network plc Annual report and accounts 2015 04
