 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Low-cost production,  
appropriate expenditure,  
and focused exploration
Genel is well positioned in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq,  
with a flexibility that provides resilience and the ability  
to capitalise on both existing and future opportunities.
Murat Özgül
Chief Executive Officer
Having been with Genel since 2008, and 
seen the Company grow significantly in  
that time, it is my pleasure to now detail the 
Company’s performance for 2015 as Chief 
Executive Officer. Unfortunately, I do not 
write at a buoyant time for the oil industry.
The decline in the oil price placed a 
significant strain on the entire oil industry  
in 2015, and the price weakness has 
continued into 2016. For the Kurdistan 
Regional Government, despite tremendous 
success in boosting oil exports, the low oil 
price and cessation of budget transfers  
from Baghdad, coupled with the necessity  
of funding the Peshmerga and averting a 
humanitarian crisis through managing the 
influx of refugees into the KRI, has created 
serious financial challenges. 
In this environment three things position 
Genel well for the future – oil production that 
is amongst the lowest cost globally, a robust 
balance sheet, and a tight control on costs. 
Despite the disappointing revision of our 
reserves at Taq Taq, Taq Taq and Tawke 
remain low-cost oil fields by any global 
benchmark. With 264 million barrels of  
net 2P reserves across our KRI portfolio, 
Genel has a robust oil business well 
positioned in the current oil price 
environment, and set to be significantly  
cash generative going forward.
12
Genel Energy plc Annual Report 2015
genelenergy.com Retaining our financial strength
Our strategy remains clear and focused,  
as we look to maximise the potential of our 
KRI oil assets and commercialise our KRI 
gas business, while seeking growth through 
the drill bit and the selective pursuit of 
value accretive M&A opportunities. This 
strategy is underpinned by our business 
model – central to which is the retention  
of a strong balance sheet.
In a challenging external environment it is 
never more important to retain financial 
strength, and ensuring that costs were  
kept to a minimum was a key focus of 
management in 2015. This focus saw a 
number of efficiency measures and cost 
reduction programmes implemented across 
the business, resulting in production costs 
and general and administrative costs falling 
by around 40% compared to 2014. Even 
without receiving full payment for our  
oil exports, cash receipts of $148 million 
local and export sales more than covered 
production costs, general and administrative 
costs, and bond interest during the year.
With the receipt of export payments in the 
fourth quarter of the year stabilising our 
receivable with the KRG and bolstering our 
cash position, we finished 2015 with cash 
balances of $455 million. 2016 cash spend  
at the Company level is forecast to average 
c.$20 million per month, showing our  
ability to withstand even a worst case oil 
price scenario. 
Capital expenditure for 2015 totalled  
$157 million, a reduction of over $500 
million on 2014, as we focused on 
development programmes at Taq Taq  
and Tawke.
Low-cost oil production
The development programmes helped drive 
production at Taq Taq and Tawke to record 
levels, with production up 22% year-on-year 
to 84,900 bopd. The low-cost nature of this 
production helps make Genel Energy a very 
resilient business, with our producing oil 
assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq 
benefiting from production costs forecast  
at less than $2/bbl in 2016.
While some of the lowest costs in the industry 
provide Genel with a solid foundation, in order 
to continue investing in the fields it is still vital 
that payments are received for oil produced. 
In August 2015, the Kurdistan Regional 
Government made a public statement that 
reiterated their commitment to make certain 
that oil companies are recompensed for their 
production. Despite the financial crisis facing 
the region, this commitment was matched by 
action, and we have received monthly 
payments for exports since September 2015. 
We have been a partner of the KRG for many 
years, and we recognise the efforts that have 
been made to meet its commitments in 
difficult circumstances.
Regular and predictable payments
This commitment to remunerating IOCs  
was confirmed on 1 February 2016, when  
the Ministry of Natural Resources issued  
a statement announcing that monthly 
payments will be based on the contractual 
entitlements under the production sharing 
contract governing each license. The 
statement also illustrated the mechanism 
through which IOC receivables will be  
paid off, as each month a percentage  
of the monthly netback field revenue 
(starting at 5%) will be used to reduce  
the outstanding amount. As the oil price 
rises, this percentage will increase.
The new payment schedule provides clarity 
over future revenues that was previously 
lacking, allowing us to tailor our field 
development plans and progress them  
with confidence. 
The payment mechanism removes the 
uncertainty of 2015, when the KRG’s  
ability to make sustained and predictable 
payments was hampered by the external 
environment. This uncertainty resulted  
in the prudent decision to reduce  
investment in our producing fields, 
suspending sub-surface investment.
We retain a significant level of flexibility  
over the investment that can be made at  
our producing fields, with the potential to 
insert electric submersible pumps in existing 
wells, sidetrack existing wells, and drill new 
horizontal wells. The extent of this activity 
will reflect the quantum of export payments, 
which are now largely tied to the oil price, as 
well as the technical results of the ongoing 
work programme. Our 2016 capital 
expenditure guidance of $80-120 million 
illustrates this flexibility, and we will aim  
to progress our oil development in a way 
that is broadly cash flow neutral to Genel  
in the near-term.
Production is expected to be 60,000-
70,000 bopd in 2016. The Taq Taq and 
Tawke entitlement achieves breakeven at  
a Brent oil price around $20 a barrel, and 
promises to be significantly cash generative 
as the external environment improves. 
“ The new payment 
schedule provides 
clarity over future 
revenues that was 
previously lacking, 
allowing us to 
tailor our field 
development plans 
and progress them 
with confidence. ”
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
Genel Energy plc Annual Report 2015
genelenergy.com CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
Taq Taq reserves revision
Given the significant ramp-up in production 
at the Taq Taq field in recent years and 
subsequent decline during 2015, Genel took 
the decision to review its reservoir model 
and its future investment profile for Taq Taq. 
To support this analysis, we commissioned  
an updated Taq Taq competent persons 
report (‘CPR’) from McDaniel & Associates. 
This internal review and the CPR are now 
largely complete. The result is that the initial 
proven and probable reserves in place at the 
field have been revised from the estimated 
683 mmbbls (as of June 2011) to an estimated 
356 mmbbls (as of 31 December 2015).
With Taq Taq having produced a total of  
184 mmbbls up to the end of 2015, the 
remaining gross recoverable 2P reserves  
as of 31 December 2015 are therefore  
172 mmbbls.
The vast majority of the original Taq Taq  
oil in place was reservoired within fractures 
in Cretaceous carbonate formations. The 
Cretaceous has three principal producing 
units – the Qamchuga, Kometan and 
Shiranish – with the Shiranish being the 
shallowest interval. Genel’s internal Taq Taq 
review and the CPR process have focused  
on the fracture porosity within the Shiranish 
reservoir. Both processes have utilised 
recently acquired data to establish that  
the fracture porosity within the Shiranish  
is lower than estimated in the original 
McDaniel CPR from 30 June 2011.
The revision in reserves is of course 
disappointing, but Taq Taq still has 
significant low-cost production to  
come. The field has been crucial in the 
development of the Kurdistan Region  
of Iraq oil industry, and will continue  
to make an important contribution  
in the future.
Commercialising the gas business 
As well as our oil production, the 
development of our Kurdistan Region of  
Iraq gas business also benefits from low 
costs. The onshore location and scale of  
the development means that it delivers an 
industry leading cost structure - with an 
estimated upstream capital and operating 
expenditure of less than $3/boe.
In September 2015, Genel completed the 
acquisition of OMV’s 36% operated stake  
in the Bina Bawi field, consolidating the 
ownership structure across both Miran  
and Bina Bawi, streamlining project 
management and providing flexibility  
in meeting development goals.
The development of the fields is a unique 
opportunity, and promises to deliver 
significant value for shareholders. The fields 
are 300 km from Turkey, one of the world’s 
fastest growing major gas markets with 
expected demand growth of 3% per year 
until 2020 at least. Turkish gas demand 
makes the KRI’s gas reserves of far greater 
strategic importance than oil, and they 
provide Turkey with the opportunity of 
materially reducing their gas import costs.
Turkey currently consumes approximately 
50 bcma of gas, of which more than half  
is provided by Russia. With the KRG set  
to provide 20 bcma, this gas will help to 
diversify, and indeed form the baseload  
of Turkish supply, at a cheaper price than  
all current imports.
The project is underpinned by the KRI-
Turkey Gas Sales Agreement, and the 
development is now progressing on the 
ground in Turkey, with BOTAS having begun 
its tendering process for the construction  
of the Turkish stretch of the pipeline.
It is a world-class development with  
a committed government buyer for  
the gas in place. As such, the progress 
towards converting the PSC amendments 
and gas supply term sheets into fully  
termed documents has been slower than  
we anticipated, as the KRG has been  
focused on oil exports and the difficult 
economic situation. 
At Miran and Bina Bawi, 2016 activity  
will focus on delivering the upstream  
gas development plan and geological/
geophysical studies, and work will also 
commence on the front end engineering 
design and financing plans for the 
midstream gas processing. Capital 
expenditure for the gas project during  
2016 is estimated at c.$25 million.
Portfolio management 
Our portfolio benefits from not having 
expensive commitments, and our focus  
on costs meant that a restructuring of the 
asset portfolio had been undertaken even 
prior to the rebasing of expectations of 
future cash-generation from Taq Taq. 
As part of our ongoing portfolio 
management and rigorous control on costs 
and capital efficiency we are concentrating 
time and investment on our producing and 
development assets, and have reshaped  
our exploration portfolio into a focused  
and low-expenditure, high-impact potential 
asset base.
“ Despite the recent 
reserve revision  
at Taq Taq, the 
Company is well 
positioned in the 
Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq, with a 
flexibility that 
provides resilliece 
to the ongoing 
downturn and the 
ability to capitalise 
on both existing 
and future 
opportunities. ”
14
Genel Energy plc Annual Report 2015
genelenergy.com As part of this process, the Ber Bahr and 
Dohuk licence interests in the KRI are in  
the process of relinquishment, as is the 
interest in the Adigala block in Ethiopia. 
Limited remaining prospectivity in the  
Cap Juby and Mir Left Moroccan assets,  
and a disappointing drilling result offshore 
Côte d’Ivoire, also resulted in the decision  
to exit these licences.
At Chia Surkh (Genel 40% working interest), 
the CS-12 appraisal well is scheduled to be 
drilled in H1 2016. The drilling will help refine 
the contingent resource estimate for the 
Chia Surkh licence. Genel will be carried by 
its partner for the costs of the CS-12 well. 
Genel is therefore looking to the future with 
a portfolio that offers low-cost production,  
a transformational gas business, and highly 
prospective exploration acreage – with 
targeted and flexible spending allowing us  
to focus on those areas in which shareholder 
returns can be maximised. 
Outlook
Genel will continue to focus on costs, 
running operations in the KRI on a broadly 
cash neutral basis. Despite the recent 
reserve revision at Taq Taq, the Company  
is well positioned in the Kurdistan Region  
of Iraq, with a flexibility that provides 
resilience to the ongoing downturn and  
the ability to capitalise on both existing  
and future opportunities.
The quantum of cash receipts will define 
activity levels, and the KRG has provided 
clarity over the regularity of future 
payments, which are set to continue even  
in this challenging environment. Should the 
oil price recover, as we expect it will, the 
level of payments will rise along with our 
entitlement, accelerating the recovery of  
our receivable. The new payment agreement 
will also allow us to progress our field 
development plans and maximise the  
value of our producing assets.
We continue to selectively pursue  
accretive M&A opportunities, although  
any transaction that we execute will be  
the result of careful screening and a robust 
internal process. We will only proceed  
with those that meet our strict criteria 
– complementing the existing KRI position 
without being detrimental to our balance 
sheet strength.
Despite the many market challenges,  
Genel Energy remains a resilient business, 
with opportunities in the portfolio promising 
significant future cash generation.
“ Despite the market 
challenges, Genel 
Energy remains 
a resilient business, 
with opportunities 
in the portfolio 
promising 
significant future 
cash generation. ”
STRATEGIC REPORT
15
Genel Energy plc Annual Report 2015
genelenergy.com
