 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
REVIEW
Overview
GAN has now successfully emerged as 
a leading provider of enterprise-level 
Internet gaming technology solutions 
to major US casino operators securing 
significant US market share. 2015 was our 
second year of continued and necessary 
substantial investment opening the 
Group to major commercial opportunities 
including The Borgata for real money 
regulated gaming in New Jersey and Isle 
of Capri for Simulated Gaming™ , both 
expected to deliver significant shareholder 
value in 2016 and beyond.
This substantial continued investment has 
been made in the US operational structure 
to develop the Group ’s US presence in 
both real money regulated gaming and 
Simulated Gaming™ markets. In the UK 
further substantial investment has been 
made in the Group ’s software technology 
and its capability to deliver both Simulated 
Gaming™ and real money regulated gaming 
to US casino operators, integrated with the 
US casino operators’ existing land-based 
loyalty programme. 
Intra-State regulation of real money 
Internet gaming remained largely on hold 
in the US, although legislative action did 
occur in Pennsylvania in the late stages 
of 2015, which suggests Internet gaming 
legislation may progress further in that 
State during the course of 2016. In the 
meantime, Simulated Gaming™ continued 
to materially outperform initial expectations 
and is positioned for significant profitable 
growth in 2016 and beyond as selected US 
casino operator clients commenced the 
application of marketing capital in late 2015 
in order to scale digital user acquisition with 
certain clients relying upon GAN’s marketing 
services team and their specialist digital 
marketing services.
During the year the Group launched 
Simulated Gaming™ for four major US 
casinos located in Pennsylvania, California, 
Maryland and Nevada, and signed additional 
landmark deals with The Borgata Casino 
in New Jersey and multi-State US casino 
operator Isle of Capri based in Illinois for 
delivery in 2016. Simulated Gaming™ 
has also been launched in Australia and 
other International opportunities are 
being developed although the Group ’s 
strategic focus remained firmly on the US 
market throughout 2015 emphasised by 
my relocation to the US in order to better 
support the Group ’s activity in its key 
geographic market. 
In New Jersey, the Group delivered 
strongly for Betfair’s regulated Internet 
casino gaming website delivering 
over one hundred incremental games 
across desktop and mobile devices and 
establishing BetfairCasino.com as a 
significant Internet casino operator in New 
Jersey’s regulated Internet gaming market. 
I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank staff at GAN, the regulators 
at the New Jersey Division of Gaming 
Enforcement, the management of Betfair’s 
New Jersey operations and the operational 
management of Golden Nugget Atlantic 
City for all their support during 2015.
GAN’s enterprise-level technology platform 
for Internet gaming is a truly scarce asset, 
managed by an equally-scarce team of 
experienced specialists managing one 
of a handful of fast-growing real money 
regulated gaming businesses in New 
Jersey . Real money regulated gaming in 
New Jersey has proved materially different 
in both general practice and specific 
technical requirements when compared 
with European markets. Subject to certain 
contractual conditions being met, GAN’s two 
New Jersey clients will together represent 
over 40% of Internet gaming revenues in 
New Jersey . This positions GAN to capture 
significant market share in any incremental 
US intra-State markets which may regulate 
Internet gaming over time, including 
Pennsylvania, New Y ork and Michigan.
During the year , the Group achieved strong 
financial growth in net revenue derived 
from the United States and the regulated 
Italian market driven primarily by Simulated 
Gaming™ nationwide across the US and 
from regulated real money Internet gaming 
in New Jersey and Italy . Notwithstanding 
growth in our core product verticals of 
Simulated Gaming™ and the sustainable 
regulated gaming markets of New Jersey 
in the US and Italy overall net revenue 
declined by 20% to £6.0m (2014: £7.5m) due 
primarily to the decline in game development 
fees and continuing delays in securing a 
system sale in 2015.
Strategy
Expansion in the United States remains a 
continuing strategic priority for the Group 
with requisite increases in US infrastructure 
centred on Las Vegas comprising human 
resource and licensing investment in 
relevant US States including New Jersey 
and Pennsylvania.
With the significant slowdown in regulation 
of real money intra-State regulated gaming 
the Group has increased its focus on 
delivering Simulated Gaming™ to land-
based US casinos in advance of further 
regulation. The successful launch of 
Simulated Gaming™ in 2014 and net revenue 
growth in 2015 support the Group ’s internal 
focus on delivering Simulated Gaming™ 
to as many major US casino properties as 
possible during the now extended period 
prior to regulation of real money regulated 
gaming. Furthermore, the Group has 
received comprehensive evidence from 
collaborating clients that GAN’s unique 
Simulated Gaming™ model has materially 
increased patrons’ visitation on-property , 
reactivated significant numbers of long-term 
inactive patrons and generally proved highly 
supportive of on-property real money land-
based gaming.
The Group continues to pursue further 
Internet gaming platform sales with casino 
equipment manufacturers in order to enable 
land based casino slots manufacturers to 
manage the distribution of their content 
online. The slow pace of incremental 
regulation of Internet gaming in the United 
States has materially contributed to on-
going delays in securing an Internet gaming 
platform sale.
GameAccount Network plc Annual report and accounts 2015 10 Investment in the Group ’s technical capability 
in k ey areas such as back office, mobile 
and convergence with land-based casino 
management systems continued throughout 
2015 with significant growth of the Group ’s 
mobile gaming portfolio in HTML5 and native 
iOS and Android applications.
In Europe, the Group extended its market 
position in Italy with new clients launched 
including Star V egas and William Hill 
Italia and Internet gaming content from 
NET Entertainment was delivered via the 
Group ’s technical platform located in Rome. 
Italy remains a crucial market for GAN 
as a comprehensively regulated Internet 
gaming market exhibiting continued growth 
throughout 2015 consequent to the 
regulation of Internet casino gaming in 2013. 
Products
The Group’s back office system iSight Back 
Office™ received major upgrades released 
throughout 2015 delivering a state-of-the-
art back office player management capability 
with unique convergence features designed 
to complement a land-based casino ’s existing 
gaming operations.
The product related capabilities of  
Simulated Gaming™ took major strides in 
2015 with a focus on monetisation of players 
and the introduction of gaming activity 
accelerants designed to extend player 
lifetimes, increase frequency of purchases 
and drive increased visitation to the US 
casino operators’ land-based properties. 
Frictionless conversion funnels for mobile, 
real-time slot tournament capability and 
multi-user (player-with-player) casino games 
such Multiplayer EZ BACCARA T
®
 launched 
in 2015 resulting in a significant increase in 
both monetisation and stickiness.
The Group’s HTML5 casino gaming-specific 
framework was substantially revised with 
the first new look and feel HTML5 casino 
slot and casino table games released in 
early 2015 together with a materially 
upgraded native casino gaming application 
consolidating games developed in both 
native application and HTML5 format within 
a single gaming App logically branded the 
single ‘Online Casino’ App for land-based 
operator clients. This major evolutionary 
step for the Group ’s SENSE3™ mobile 
gaming proposition will support the Group ’s 
growth opportunity in mobile in 2016.
A wide portfolio of new casino games 
were developed throughout 2015 with 
over 40 individual game client applications 
developed and delivered online in 2015 
(2014: 40) bringing the Group ’s in-platform 
gaming content portfolio to 200 comprising 
simple casino slots and table games, complex 
multiplayer bingo and poker , multi-user 
casino games and a wide range of specialist 
games such as blackjack tournaments and 
region-specific card or dice games.
In 2015 the Group ’s research & development 
function developed a comprehensive 
framework for delivering ‘freemium’ mobile 
casual games to land-based casino operator 
clients exploiting the deep skill and expertise 
in the Group for developing skill-based 
games. The first product, a mobile casual 
game based on solitaire with over 300 levels 
to explore and complete was released for a 
US casino operator client in 2015 and relied 
entirely on in-App purchases to generate 
revenues from a minority of players who 
download the game for free and proceed to 
purchase in-game items designed to extend 
time-on-device. V ariants of these mobile 
casual games, which can be played online 
or offline, will be released to the Group’s 
selected US casino operator clients in 2016. 
The Group ’s research & development 
function in 2015 also developed the US 
casino industry’s first virtual reality casino 
application offering end-user players of 
Simulated Gaming™ with Oculus Rift PC 
VR headsets the ability to navigate a virtual 
casino environment, explore themed worlds 
and play existing casino table games and 
casino slot games within these themed 
environments. The first virtual reality casino 
was released in early 2016 for a US casino 
operator client.
Marketing and Support Services
Throughout 2015, the Group continued 
to invest in establishing a wide range of 
secondary and tertiary services for US land-
based casino clients designed to support 
the land-based casino operator in managing 
customers and growing through external 
user acquisition marketing and internal 
cross-sell marketing to existing patron 
databases and on-property human traffic.  
In 2015, GAN secured four US casino clients 
of marketing services conducted in support 
of Simulated Gaming™ in the second half-
year period.
Marketing and support services remain a 
crucial component of the Group ’s service 
portfolio, ensuring any land-based casino 
operator can cost-effectively launch a 
turnkey managed Internet gaming service 
and, should they choose to, invest significant 
capital to grow profitably beyond its existing 
audience of casino patrons.
 
Dermot Smurfit
Chief Executive Officer
 GameAccount Network plc Annual report and accounts 2015
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
11
