 10
The outlook for Gamma remains 
positive, and we look forward to 
continuing the strong momentum  
in the business and delivering 
sustainable long term value for  
our stakeholders.
Following its first full financial year on 
AIM, 2015 saw an excellent financial and 
operational performance from Gamma with 
strong growth in strategic products.
Overall, revenue grew from £173.2m in 
2014 to £191.8m (+11%) whilst gross profit 
improved from £67.6m to £82.3m (+22%). 
Adjusted EBITDA grew by 23% from 
£23.1m to £28.3m, while adjusted profit 
before tax increased to £21.0m, up 26% 
from £16.7m in 2014.
The outlook for Gamma continues to be 
positive, the product pipeline is strong,  
and we look forward to delivering 
sustainable long term value for our 
stakeholders. Our investment in  
developing new services continues.
Gamma operates primarily through a 
network of channel partners and this 
represents 79% of the revenue and 69% 
of profit from operations. Direct sales are 
increasingly focused on areas that the 
channel is less active in, such as large 
enterprise and the public sector.
Channel partners 
With our channel route to market showing 
growth in revenues of £15.1m to £152.0 in 
2015 (2014: £136.9m) and profit after tax  
of £13.8m in 2015 (2014: £6.1m), we have 
successfully met our three key objectives 
in this market of a) successfully growing our 
business with existing partners b) shifting 
the balance of revenues in favour of more 
strategic products, and c) expanding the 
number of partners that actively trade  
with us (from 725 to 834 during 2015).  
The channel remains a fast-changing  
and diverse market, with channel operators 
seeking to broaden their range of offerings 
to the UK business market. Unlike many of 
our competitors, the channel is our primary 
route to market and our focus is on helping 
our partners grow their businesses with a 
strong differentiated product set. During 
2015, we added significantly to the 
marketing expertise and services we 
provide to our partners, directly working 
with them to use the latest digital techniques 
to successfully drive new business. 
In the latter part of the year, we were 
particularly pleased to work successfully  
as a supplier to Fujitsu on the conversion  
of HMRC’s traditional ISDN telephony 
estate to SIP , as a part of a much wider 
transformation programme. With some 
97,000 numbers ported onto the Gamma 
network and 13,000 SIP trunks deployed, 
this was one of the largest and most 
complex ISDN to SIP conversions in 
the UK to date. We are pleased that it 
all transferred smoothly and on time.
Direct sales
The direct arm of Gamma’s business  
also showed strong growth with revenues 
rising to £39.8m (2014: £36.3m) and profit  
after tax of £4.5m (2014: £3.3m). This 
included wins such as a £3.5m, three year 
agreement with Taylor Wimpey plc for a 
managed communications infrastructure 
service. Gamma will take over the existing 
traditional fixed and mobile voice services 
to all Taylor Wimpey UK locations, and is  
in the process of migrating these services 
to Gamma’s Cloud-based unified 
communications service. 
Gamma was also selected by IT and 
business process services provider  
CGI Group Inc. to play a key part in the 
roll-out of smart meters across the UK  
by connecting energy firms to the core  
datacentres.
In the public sector, we were very pleased 
to be awarded a Government framework 
agreement on eight out of the ten possible 
‘Lots’ on the new Crown Commercial 
Service Network Services agreement 
(RM1045). This framework will replace 
a number of legacy agreements, and the 
‘Lots’ cover all communications services 
Bob Falconer 
Chief Executive Officer
Strong momentum  
in the business
Chief Executive Officer’s review 11
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Gamma Communications plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
including data, voice, mobile and integrated 
communications. This gives Gamma the 
ability to compete in a sector where we 
have been materially restricted in the past 
– particularly in competing for national 
government business. Our public sector 
team was successful in winning a number 
of new contracts including Peabody 
Housing Trust, and NHS Trusts such as 
North & East London, and Maidstone & 
Tunbridge Wells. 
Strategic products 
Our strategic products of SIP Trunking 
(business grade VoIP) and Horizon  
(our Cloud PBX service) have continued  
to grow strongly. 
Our SIP product – which is a more flexible 
and cost effective alternative to traditional 
ISDN – grew by 54%; from 234,000 to 
360,000 channels during 2015. We have 
continued to invest in our SIP product, 
maintaining our product leadership. 
We also introduced a number of service 
enhancements, including additional 
resiliency options and new pricing initiatives 
that bundle in calls to mobile destinations. 
Gamma remains the current UK market 
leader in SIP Trunking, and has exceeded 
significantly the general 25% market 
growth of SIP Channels in the UK 
(Ilume Report June 2015).
The market for cloud-based telephony 
services as an alternative to a traditional 
PBX is now well established. In 2015 the 
number of connected handsets on our  
own Cloud telephony product, Horizon, 
grew by 78% from 80,000 to 142,000, 
helped by the number of partners 
accredited to sell the product growing  
from 258 to 345. The product is  
subjected to a programme of continued 
enhancements, the most significant 
of which was the addition of call-centre 
functionality allowing any business that 
receives inbound calls to better manage, 
monitor and control their inbound call 
activity; from businesses with sales 
teams, help desks, accounts departments, 
receptionists or customer service 
representatives, right through to smaller 
professional call-centre environments.
For both SIP and Horizon, we are now 
seeing a growth in competition, from 
both UK based and overseas operators, 
however the market remains very buoyant, 
and in the past 12 months Gamma  
has outgrown significantly the general 
market growth.
Enabling products 
In June we were pleased to be able to 
launch on time our multi-site data network 
product (branded CPN – Converged 
Private Network). By the end of 2015, we 
have received eight orders for the product 
from larger organisations and the pipeline 
continues to grow. This product underpins 
our ability to provide full communications 
services for mid-market companies. 
Gamma’s enabling services of Ethernet, 
business-grade broadband, and mobile  
also grew significantly during the year. 
For example, the number of business-grade 
broadband connections grew from 29,000  
to 40,000 and Gamma’s Ethernet base 
expanded to 2,400 live connections.  
These services enable Gamma to  
provide converged voice and data  
services to businesses and extend its 
practice of providing more functionally 
bundled services.
Traditional products 
Margins on the traditional business, which 
we define as conventional wholesale calls 
and lines, have shown only a small decline 
(£0.3m of gross profit decline from 2014 to 
2015), ahead of the general and continuing 
reduction in the size of this market.
Read more about our strategy on page 14
Execution Developing  
the market
Introducing  
new services
Infrastructure 
investment
Exploiting 
existing 
services
78%
Gamma’s Cloud PBX product has 
achieved growth of 78% over the 
last year. 12
Operational performance 
With Gamma now providing services to  
a growing proportion of UK businesses, 
the quality of Gamma’s operational 
services remains absolutely paramount, 
and an area where the business seeks 
to differentiate itself from its competitors.
Overall, across all Gamma products, the 
2015 operational performance was above 
the defined and published service levels 
and the service level trend has been one  
of continuous improvement over several 
years. Strong emphasis continues to be 
placed on the quality of the operational 
service, the elimination of risk and 
improvements in security and, to this end 
the business has maintained its certification 
in both ISO 27001 and ISO 22301. 
During the year we have developed a 
number of online tools that allow partners 
to self-diagnose and rectify over 50% of 
faults; not only does this mean the partner 
can provide a better service to their 
customers, but it also means we can 
improve our own operational efficiency.
Cyber security
Over the last few years, the risk profile 
associated with cyber security has 
changed significantly, with several high 
profile cases hitting the press in 2015. 
Whilst no company can declare they  
are 100% immune from a cyber attack,  
our stringent governance in this area is 
independently audited and tested through 
both our ISO certifications and regular 
penetration testing. Alongside our ISO 
27001 certification, we also gained 
certification to the Cyber Essentials 
standard and we participate in the UK’s 
Cyber-security Information Sharing 
Partnership (CiSP), which is a joint 
industry-government initiative to share 
cyber threat and vulnerability information. 
The Board regularly reviews the health  
of our security governance, to ensure 
appropriate resource and priority is  
placed on mitigating risk in this area.
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued 13
Financial statements Corporate governance Strategic report
Gamma Communications plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Regulatory
Gamma had been in commercial 
negotiations for a settlement in regard 
to its ladder pricing policy. I am pleased 
to report that we have now concluded 
a cash settlement and have recognised 
an exceptional gain of £5.7m for the year 
ending 31 December 2015.
Mobile services 
We announced last year that we had made 
an opportunistic, but strategic, acquisition 
of equipment that comprises the ‘core’ of 
a mobile network, i.e. the equipment which 
controls the voice and data services used 
by a mobile customer. 
I am pleased to report that progress on 
developing a full mobile service (including 
4G) has gone well and we are currently 
in full testing with plans for the service to 
go live in June 2016. Roaming and radio 
access agreements are in place and plans 
are advanced for the transfer of our existing 
base of some 66,000 customers on to the 
new full MVNO service. Gamma will look 
to position itself as the fourth mobile 
operator in the UK business market.
Looking forward, we recognise the 
importance of fixed-mobile integration,  
and Gamma is one of a very small number 
of operators with a strong capability in all 
the core technologies of fixed voice, mobile 
and data services. This is where we will 
be placing much of our development effort 
going forward. 
People and property
The average number of people in the 
Gamma Group increased over the year 
from 519 to 626, primarily to support the 
growth in product volume and future 
product development. 
Once again, Gamma was recognised 
as one of “The Sunday Times 100 Best 
Companies to Work For 2015” and retained 
its 2-star accreditation by Best Companies 
as an Outstanding Company. As well as 
aiding recruitment and retention, the survey 
process provides us with valuable and 
detailed feedback from our employees. 
To cater for the growth in the business, 
upon expiry of the lease for our Fareham 
office in December we relocated to 
improved premises in Port Solent (near 
Portsmouth). An additional floor of meeting 
space was also agreed opportunistically for 
our London office in the City, and our small 
Budapest office was relocated following the 
expiry of the lease. 
Outlook
And so to 2016, where our core strategy  
is to remain a leader in the high growth 
sectors of the business communications 
market (such as SIP Trunking and Cloud 
PBX), underpinned by absolutely the 
best-in-class quality of service and with the 
best and most motivated staff we can hire. 
We expect the volumes to continue to grow 
in new products (SIP Trunking, Cloud PBX 
etc) and to continue to decline in traditional 
services (phone calls and lines), with 
our margins continuing to migrate from 
traditional to strategic. 
The industry as a whole continues to 
undergo major changes, such as the 
acquisition of EE by BT, much of it driven 
by larger players looking to take multiple 
service offerings to the consumer market. 
Gamma, by contrast, remains wholly 
focused on the UK business market 
and the indirect channel is an effective 
route to that market. 
Bob Falconer 
Chief Executive Officer
