 14 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
This has been a tremendous year for our 
Montepuez ruby mining business which is 
helping to re-energise the global ruby market.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Sales generated from the Montepuez ruby deposit 
US$122m
US$122 million sales generated from the 
Montepuez ruby deposit since the acquisition 
completed in 2012 15 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
I am pleased to report on another year of delivery, growth and 
achievement for Gemfields as we continue to outperform against 
our peers within the resources sector.
We have repeatedly delivered on our strategy of increasing 
production, expanding our operating footprint, responsible mining 
ethics and strengthening of sector and consumer confidence 
in coloured gemstones through our commitment to marketing 
and education.
This has been a tremendous year for our ruby mining business in 
Mozambique. The quality of gems produced at the Montepuez ruby 
deposit, coupled with Gemfields’ highly-regarded auction platform 
and comprehensive marketing programmes, has undoubtedly 
re-energised the global ruby market.
Montepuez delivered increased production of 8.4 million carats of 
ruby and corundum for the year. Following a technical review, the 
rock handling capacity was optimised with new additions to the fleet 
bringing total rock handling to an average of 250 thousand tonnes 
per month compared with 130 thousand tonnes per month in the 
previous year. Processing performance also improved following the 
installation of an additional rinsing screen to improve the capacity 
of the wash plant during the rainy season.
Our primary objective now is for operations at Montepuez to 
progress from exploration into full scale production over the next 
two years. Key targets outlined in the maiden Mineral Resource and 
Ore Reserve Statement by SRK would see mining capacity rise from 
3.3 million tonnes per annum (“mtpa”) to 5.6 mtpa by July 2017 
and processing capacity increase to 1.3 mtpa by financial year 2017 . We 
look forward to this major step-up in scale for our Mozambican asset.
The three Montepuez rough ruby auctions held during the year 
– which included the exceptional 40.23 carat ‘Rhino Ruby’ and a rare 
matching pair of rough rubies with a combined weight of 45 carats, 
and aptly named the ‘Eyes of the Dragon’, – delivered very pleasing 
results. The April 2015 auction held in Jaipur, was the first time that 
such a considerable volume of non-domestic rough ruby was offered 
to the market, with an overwhelming response from participants. 
Through our continued programme of education on the rarity and 
value of rubies from Montepuez, the opportunity to grow this market 
is still apparent.
Kagem delivered another year of impressive results with an increase 
in annual carat production that can be attributed in part to improved 
volumes of ore (derived from the mine’s primary Chama deposit and 
supplemented to some extent by the bulk sampling work being carried 
out on two additional pits) and better rain management during 
the annual wet season. We progressed the fourth high wall pushback 
at the Chama pit, which was completed in September 2015. We have 
revisited our mine plan for the Chama pit, following the updated 
Resource and Reserves Statement from SRK and are now looking 
at the option of continued waste stripping over the life of the mine. 
The plan being to ensure that two to three years of ore is available 
for mining at any given point in time. 
In addition to the current production focus being centred on the 
Chama pit, effort has also been directed at additional exploration 
work across the Kagem mining licence area during the year, with 
the acceleration of various bulk sampling programmes, including 
the Libwente and Fibolele pits which have thus far yielded some 
promising results. 
The SRK report, released in September 201 5, confirmed a proven and 
probable reserve of 1.1 billion carats at a diluted ore grade of 291 carats 
per tonne. With the right investment, we expect to be able to increase 
current production levels from 25 to 30 million carats per annum to 
around 35 million carats of emerald and beryl by the 2017 financial 
year end.
Investment into new mining and ancillary equipment during the 
year, as well as improvements to Kagem’s infrastructure and facilities, 
have once again contributed to increased operational efficiency. 
The wash plant and security arrangements are also being upgraded 
with the potential to further increase our processing capacity 
once completed.
The management and exploration teams should be commended for 
their skilled and prudent approach to the programme of organic 
growth at Kagem and we enter the next financial year in a position 
where further increases in production output from outside of the 
Chama pit are increasingly possible.  16 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
We will continue to be guided by our approach to sustainability 
and to add meaningful value to the communities, regions and 
countries where we do business. We were particularly pleased to 
note the progress on two of Kagem’s major community projects, 
this year, being the construction of a secondary school for 700 
children at Chapula and upgrading of the Nkana Health Centre 
in Lufwanyama District.
Despite some of the extraneous challenges faced, Fabergé continues 
to serve as a true coloured gemstone champion, adding value to the 
Gemfields business by suitably positioning and promoting coloured 
gemstones to drive industry and consumer demand. The launch 
and subsequent sale of the highly anticipated Fabergé Pearl Egg, 
the brand’s exploration into the timepieces sector, and new jewellery 
collections reflecting the artistic use of coloured gemstones, have been 
well received by the market, demonstrating the significant potential 
inherent with the innovative new designs being created by the Fabergé 
team. We look forward to increasing consumer demand for these 
products as we enter the final quarter of this calendar year.
In September 2015, Gemfields announced binding but conditional 
agreements to acquire controlling interest in two emerald projects in 
Colombia, including the Coscuez Emerald Mine which is known to 
have produced some of the finest emeralds from Colombia. 
I am pleased to report that our efforts and their associated successes 
over the past few years, mean that we are now in a position to further 
support the Group’s overall objectives via the efforts of our three 
newly opened rough gemstone trading outlets. I am confident that 
the positive impacts of these ventures will be felt in each of these 
markets within the not too distant future as they help to improve 
the financial viability of many of the smaller scale miners and 
ensure maximum returns for each of the respective host nations.
I am extremely encouraged by this past year’s growth and the 
continued development of the global coloured gemstone sector. 
As we move into a period of stability and consolidation in the year 
ahead, I look forward to reporting on the sustained growth and 
prosperity of your Company. 
Ian Harebottle / Chief Executive Officer
6 October 2015
Fabergé
Summer in Provence 
Emerald Timepiece
Fabergé
Summer in Provence Emerald Timepiece
A new vision of jewellery timepieces. 
Sophisticated skills of the Fabergé work 
masters are evident in the delicacy with 
which the precious gems are interlaced 
with fine coloured gemstones and 
micro-sculptures.
— See page 37 17 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Total EBITDA 
US$194.7 m
Total EBITDA of US$194.7 million 
generated since FY09 until FY15
Total revenue
US$524.5m
US$524.5 million generated since first 
auction in FY09 until FY15 
Case study
40 Carat Ruby
Exceptional 40.23 carat ‘Rhino Ruby’ 
discovered at Montepuez 
The discovery of a 40.23 carat rough ruby from the 
Montepuez deposit in 2014 was believed to be one of 
the most important rubies unearthed in recent times. 
The gemstone has set a new benchmark for the quality 
of African rubies and further endorses Montepuez 
as one of the most significant ruby deposits in the 
world today.
In recognition of the successful sale of this exceptional 
ruby at auction, Gemfields and Mwiriti Limitada 
committed to supporting the anti-rhino-poaching 
aircraft operated by Game Reserves United (“GRU”), 
contributing to a material proportion of its flying cost 
for the 201 5 calendar year.
Gemfields is contributing the major 
portion of funds towards the upkeep of 
the GRU-Wing aircraft in 2015.
