 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Resetting the business  
in challenging times
Low-cost production, flexibility in the portfolio, 
and the financial strength to pursue our strategy.
Tony Hayward 
Chairman
I am pleased to welcome you to Genel 
Energy’s fifth annual report. 2015 was  
a challenging year across the oil sector  
as a whole. The sustained low oil price  
has placed a significant strain on both  
the industry and the economy of the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq. 
As the external environment has 
deteriorated, we have been proactive  
in ensuring that your Company remains 
robust. Our production costs are amongst 
the lowest globally, and our asset base 
allows us to flex our capital expenditure 
programme to align with our cashflow  
and to preserve a robust balance sheet. 
Despite the reserve reassessment and write 
down at Taq Taq, which is very disappointing, 
our asset base remains strong, with many 
years of production ahead of us.
Despite the difficulties of the external 
environment, 2015 saw record production for 
Genel, up 22%. Payments for pipeline exports 
in the second half of the year, followed by a 
payment mechanism being confirmed in 2016, 
both demonstrated the firm commitment of 
the Kurdistan Regional Government to fully 
compensate IOCs for all production, both in 
the past and going forward.
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq oil industry
The Kurdistan Region of Iraq remains safe 
and secure, and our operations have been 
unaffected by the ongoing presence of ISIS 
in Iraq and Syria. The ISIS offensives against 
the KRI in 2014 were successfully repelled, 
and the terrorist group was very much on 
the defensive throughout 2015. Significant 
ground was retaken by the Peshmerga, with 
the support of its allies, and ISIS has seen  
its supply lines cut and increasing pressure 
placed on those areas west of the KRI which 
remain under its control.
10
Genel Energy plc Annual Report 2015
genelenergy.com While we continue to monitor the situation, 
we do not expect ISIS to have any 
operational impact on the KRI oil industry 
going forward. The main impact ISIS has  
is on the economy of the region, with the 
funding of the Peshmerga and provision  
of support for refugees and internally 
displaced peoples (‘IDPs’) causing a  
strain on the KRG’s financial position.
2015 began with the implementation of  
an agreement between Baghdad and Erbil 
promising an end to uncertainty about the 
KRG’s economic situation, with promises  
of the transfer of a full monthly budget 
allocation to Erbil, and SOMO control of all 
sales of crude from Ceyhan. Unfortunately, 
while exports from KRI fields ramped up,  
the budget transfers stalled, forcing the  
KRG to resume independent export sales.
The KRG has since successfully increased 
exports to record levels, hitting over  
650,000 bopd and reaching a ready market  
of international purchasers. Unfortunately, the 
shortfall of revenue received in the first half  
of the year delayed payments to oil companies, 
a situation compounded by the low oil price 
and the necessity of funding the Peshmerga.
Against this backdrop, the receipt of four 
payments for pipeline exports pertaining  
to the last four months of 2015 was very 
encouraging. These initial payments, totalling 
c.$100 million, helped stabilise our receivable 
and maintain our robust balance sheet. We 
recognise the efforts that the KRG is making  
to meet its commitments to IOCs in a very 
difficult environment. The crystallisation of  
the payment mechanism in February 2016  
was a very positive move, and has provided 
clarity over the quantum and certainty  
over the timing of future payments.
As these payments are forthcoming,  
our investment in the region will continue,  
with the aim of maximising the value of  
our oil fields and facilitating the investment 
required to drive the development of the  
gas business, a business that will help 
further transform the economy of the KRI.
Management changes
At a difficult time for the industry, it is  
vital that a company has a Board with the 
experience and expertise to help navigate 
through choppy waters and to monitor 
carefully the risk across our operations.
2015 saw the retirement of people who  
were integral in the establishment of  
Genel Energy as a respected London-listed 
company. Rodney Chase, my predecessor  
as Chairman, and Julian Metherell, former 
CFO, both made invaluable contributions  
and left Genel with a strong reputation, and 
the financial strength to prosper. Mark Parris 
and Murat Yazici also stepped down in 2015, 
and we wish both well.
In order to retain the knowledge of Genel 
Energy assets, the political and oil industry 
environment, and an in depth understanding 
of operating in the KRI, the Board decided 
that I would replace Rodney as Chairman, 
with Murat Özgül, previously President, 
Turkey and KRI, becoming Chief Executive. 
Murat has overseen the development of our 
Kurdistan business to make Genel Energy 
into one of the largest independent oil 
producers on the London Stock Exchange, 
and there is nobody better qualified to 
progress the development of our world-class 
KRI gas fields.
Finally, the year also saw the retirement of 
our President, Mehmet Sepil. The Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq’s oil industry would not be 
where it is today without the foresight and 
efforts of people like Mehmet. 
Mehmet left a legacy of a company with 
unsurpassed relationships in the region, 
world-class assets, significant production 
and transformational growth opportunities. 
With Murat, and Julian’s successor Ben 
Monaghan, we have the right management 
team, with the relevant and complementary 
skills, to drive the company forward and  
take advantage of these opportunities.
Responsible operations
Supporting and sustaining the communities 
in which we operate is fundamental to Genel 
Energy’s success and our commitment to 
being a sustainable business. We take pride 
in the close relationship that we have with 
the KRG, with whom we have worked closely 
for almost 15 years.
With 1.8 million refugees boosting the 
population of the KRI by over 30%, the KRG, 
working with NGOs, has done an excellent 
job to avoid a catastrophic humanitarian 
incident. We have been glad to provide 
support to the KRG, while not ignoring the 
needs of communities we work in to ensure 
lasting benefit from our operations.
Well positioned in a low-price environment
To ensure the ongoing strength of the 
business even in a period of prolonged low 
oil prices, our focus will remain on retaining 
a strong balance sheet and robust cash 
position. The flexibility of our investment 
programme means that we have a fleet-
footed business that can take advantage  
of an improving external environment. 
With the unique potential offered by the  
gas business, and low-cost oil production 
that promises to be cash generative even  
in very low oil price scenarios, we continue 
to look to the future with confidence.
Read more about  
our operations
p.16
“ Our production costs 
are amongst the 
lowest globally, and 
our asset base allows 
us to flex our capital 
expenditure 
programme to align 
with our cashflow 
and to preserve a 
robust balance sheet. ”
Read more about  
corporate governance
p.44
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
Genel Energy plc Annual Report 2015
genelenergy.com
