 08 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement
Significant increase in achievable per carat prices
US$65.89 
Increase in price per carat of higher quality 
emeralds from US$4.40 in July 2009 to 
US$65.89 in November 2014.
A landmark year of record-breaking auction 
results, increased production, organic growth 
and further expansion for the Gemfields 
group worldwide.  09 Gemfields plc / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report / Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder,
I am delighted to present the 2015 Annual Report which outlines 
another landmark year for Gemfields.
Your Company generated increased revenues of US$171 million and a 
strong EBITDA of US$64 million, underpinned by record-breaking 
auction results, a significant uplift in gemstone production, and 
further expansion projects coming online. 
The global coloured gemstone market continues to demonstrate 
impressive growth, with global imports of finished emerald, ruby 
and sapphire goods accounting for as much as 58% of the worldwide 
coloured gemstone and pearl market at US$5 billion. We have been 
relentless in our ambition to become the global leader in coloured 
gemstones and as a result, Gemfields is increasingly being recognised 
as the supplier of choice for many of the world’s leading jewellery 
houses, manufacturers and luxury brands. 
Demand for our responsibly sourced coloured gemstones remains 
high. The six auctions we have hosted in this financial year, three 
of emeralds and three of rubies, have yielded aggregate revenues of 
US$153 million. This superb performance by Gemfields provides 
further evidence of the continued growth, positive momentum and 
significant opportunity inherent within the coloured gemstone sector.
Without question, the past year has seen our ruby mining business 
in Mozambique flourish in both financial and operational 
performance. Although it is still very early days at Montepuez, 
the response from the market for fine Mozambican rubies has been 
extremely positive. Since the inaugural ruby auction in June 2014, 
Gemfields has held a further three ruby auctions during the period, 
with the four auctions held to date generating a combined US$122 
million in revenues. In December 2014, our higher quality rubies 
achieved an average price of US$688.64 per carat – the highest price 
ever recorded at any Gemfields auction. While the ruby prices achieved 
are pleasing, our Mozambican rubies remain very competitively priced 
when compared to their Burmese counterparts, which bodes well for 
future demand and the potential for continued price growth.
The full potential of the Montepuez ruby deposit was formally 
recognised in the first JORC compliant Mineral Resource and Ore 
Reserve Statement published in July 2015, which shows Probable  
Ore Reserves of 432 million carats of ruby and corundum; sufficient 
for 21 years of mining at an increased rate of 20 million carats per 
annum. The significance of this report is a milestone event for the 
business and an exciting moment for global ruby supply as a whole.
Montepuez is already having a positive impact on the global ruby 
market and with the potential for operations to progress into full  
scale production over the next 24 months, the outlook is extremely 
encouraging. I would like to thank our team, our 25% partner 
Mwiriti and the Mozambican government for their continued 
support and expertise in bringing this project to fruition. While there 
is still a great deal of work to be done there is considerable upside yet 
to be realised on behalf of our shareholders.
Our Kagem emerald mine achieved a remarkable 49% increase 
year-on-year in emerald and beryl production to 30.1 million carats. 
This is the second highest annual production achieved since we first 
took over operational control at Kagem in 2008 and is an outstanding 
result for the Gemfields team. Zambian emeralds continue to enjoy 
firm demand and have become highly sought after in the international 
markets, underpinned by further increases in per carat prices for both 
lower and higher quality emeralds from Kagem during the year. The 
Company’s 19 auctions of emeralds and beryl mined at Kagem since 
July 2009 have generated US$360 million in total revenues.
The SRK Competent Persons Report announced in September 2015 
includes the first recorded Measured Mineral Resource and Proven 
Ore Reserve Statement for the Kagem Mine (and possibly the first 
classification of this nature for the entire coloured gemstone sector) 
and further underlines the importance of the Kagem mine to the 
global supply of emeralds. The report confirmed a 25 year life of mine 
with a Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource of 1.8 
billion carats of emerald and beryl at an in-situ grade of 281 carats 
per tonne for the Kagem mine as a whole. Since embarking on an 
integrated, global strategic plan for our jewellery business, I am 
pleased to report that Fabergé has continued to make encouraging 
progress towards sustainable growth and future profitability. We 
remain focused on optimising the business, re-establishing the brand 
at the highest level of the luxury goods market, and harnessing the 
Fabergé name to boost the international presence and appreciation for 
coloured gemstones.
Significant achievements over the past 12 months include the launch 
of new product lines and the expansion into two important luxury 
categories, namely timepieces and objets d’art, to industry acclaim. 
However, continued investment in the business coupled with a 
turbulent political environment in the key markets of Russia and 
Ukraine has naturally had some level of impact on Fabergé’s overall 
sales during the year.
Our ambition to supply the global market with the red, blue and green 
‘traffic light’ of coloured gemstones took a step closer in September 
2014 when we were able to announce our move into Sri Lankan 
sapphires. Sri Lanka is recognised as one of the most important 
sources of higher quality sapphires in the world today and we look 
forward to introducing Sri Lankan sapphires to the Gemfields 
auction platform in the not too distant future. 
Post the financial year end we announced our move into Colombia 
via the proposed acquisition of the Coscuez Emerald Mine as well 
as selected greenfield exploration prospects. Colombia needs little 
introduction, it is home to some of history’s most legendary emerald 
mines and the potential entry into this country is in line with our 
strategy of expanding Gemfields’ global footprint. The acquisitions 
offer exciting long term growth opportunities and both parties are 
working hard to conclude the agreements.
With further emerald and ruby auctions scheduled to take place in the 
latter part of 2015, continued organic growth at both Kagem and 
Montepuez, and a clear focus on strategic acquisitions and expansion, 
we look forward to yet another strong and successful year ahead.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all of our 
hardworking and dedicated employees, management team, project 
partners and host countries, on a very successful year for Gemfields.
Graham Mascall / Chairman
6 October 2015 
