 70 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Dear Shareholders,
2015 was a challenging year for companies operating in the 
resources sector, during which commodity prices fell sharply 
as macro-economic uncertainties emerged and amplified.
The second half of the year was particularly tough. As the 
scale of these challenges became clear, your Board acted 
decisively, announcing a range of measures in September to 
reduce the Group’s debt significantly by the end of 2016. 
The sustained price reductions that we have seen for many of 
our commodities have been the key drivers for the measures 
taken by Glencore’s management team to strengthen the 
Group’s balance sheet through the preservation of capital the 
reduction of debt and disposal of assets. 
Glencore takes a disciplined approach towards market 
fundamentals. Where there is reduced or lower than expected 
demand for our commodities, we consider the curtailment or 
cessation of our supply of volumes to the market. We are 
committed to seeking to operate as profitably as possible, 
even during periods of demand weakness.
This year your Board has been involved in the making of a 
number of difficult decisions. These decisions have not been 
made lightly, especially as some have resulted in negative 
impacts on our employees, host communities and 
governments through the loss of jobs and revenues as 
production volumes have been reduced and unprofitable 
operations closed. Our local teams have been instrumental  
in limiting the impact of these decisions, through regular 
engagement with impacted stakeholders and ensuring those 
employees leaving the Group were properly compensated.
Glencore’s unique business model, as both a producer and 
marketer of commodities, enables it to extract value at every 
stage of the commodity chain. As a result, your Company is 
better positioned than many to withstand the current 
commodity downturn.
Tragically, ten people lost their lives at our operations during 
2015. Although this is a significant reduction on prior years, the 
Board and I recognise that this is an unacceptable outcome; we 
are continuing our efforts to strengthen our safety culture at all 
our operations regardless of their location or previous safety 
performance. The number of people losing their lives while 
working at Glencore sites continues to reduce year-on-year and 
I am confident that our ambition of zero fatalities is realistic 
and achievable. 
I am very pleased to report that SafeWork has now been 
implemented at all of our assets and is delivering significant 
safety improvements. Both our total recordable and lost time 
injury frequency rates have exceeded our collective target of a 
15% reduction and the number of new occupational disease 
cases has reduced by 41% year-on-year.
As a business committed to delivering shareholder value, we 
recognise that we will only be able to successfully deliver this 
commitment through creating sustainable, long-term benefits 
for all of our stakeholders. 
To this end, pilot studies were carried out at several  
locations against a set of performance metrics which  
we have developed to better understand our socio-economic 
contribution. These indicators allow us to monitor our 
contribution to communities and governments through the 
wages, taxes and royalties we pay, as well as the contributions 
we make to health, education and infrastructure. We will be 
rolling out these metrics across all operations in 2016.
During the year, Glencore became a member of the Plenary  
of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
(Voluntary Principles). The Voluntary Principles bring 
together governments, companies in the extractive sector and 
non-government organisations to engage in dialogue on how 
best to achieve the safety and security of operations through 
encouraging respect for human rights. We have been 
implementing the Voluntary Principles at our operations 
located in regions with a high risk of human rights abuse 
since 2013 and reporting on our progress in our annual 
sustainability report. Our membership will support our 
efforts to further progress our approach towards human 
rights and to share knowledge and best practice. 
We have set out on pages 78 and 80 to 89 the main activities of 
the Board and its Committees during the year. I would 
highlight in particular:
• the considerable work with executive management 
undertaken during the last four months of the year 
concerning the Group’s balance sheet and ongoing strategy;
• the operation of the HSEC Committee which as well as 
continuing its primary objectives of better management  
of catastrophic risks and of safety practices and procedures, 
has undertaken considerable work in a range of other areas 
including the oversight of a major new assurance process 
for sustainability risks and the launch of a social value 
creation score card; and
• the work of the Audit Committee, particularly on 
impairment analysis and consideration of the new longer-
term viability statement we are providing.
Our response to the considerable challenges which the Group 
has faced over the last year reflects the strong leadership  
of the Group’s management team and the continuous efforts 
of all of those at Glencore, who are working together to ensure 
the ongoing success of your Company. We remain focused  
on operating efficient, low cost and safe operations which  
in combination with our excellent marketing businesses give 
us confidence that the medium- and long-term fundamentals 
of our business continue to be strong.
I and my fellow Directors thank you for your continued 
support of Glencore.
Tony Hayward 
Chairman
Chairman’s introduction, Directors and Officers 1
23
4
5 67
8
1 Leonhard Fischer
2 Peter Grauer
3 Patrice Merrin
4 Ivan Glasenberg 
5 Anthony Hayward
6 William Macaulay
7 John Mack
8 Peter Coates
71 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 72 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Directors
Anthony Hayward
Chairman (Age 58)
Appointed: Anthony Hayward has been 
Independent Non-Executive Chairman from 
May 2013. Prior to being appointed Chairman he  
was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Dr Hayward is non-executive chairman 
of Genel Energy plc (LON:GENL), a partner and 
member of the European advisory Board of AEA 
Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
Dr Hayward was group chief executive of BP plc 
from 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a 
rig geologist in the North Sea.
Following a series of technical and commercial 
roles in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned 
to London in 1997 as a member of the upstream 
executive committee. He became group treasurer 
in 2000, chief executive for BP upstream activities 
and member of the main Board of BP in 2003. 
Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University 
in Birmingham and completed a Ph.D. at Edinburgh 
University. He is also a fellow of the Royal Society 
of Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from 
the University of Edinburgh, Aston University and 
the University of Birmingham. 
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer (Age 59)
Appointed: Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in 
April 1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer 
since January 2002.
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Mr Glasenberg initially spent three 
years working in the coal commodity department 
in South Africa as a marketer, before spending 
two years in Australia as head of the Asian coal 
commodity division. Between 1988 and 1989, he was 
based in Hong Kong as head of Glencore’s Hong 
Kong and Beijing offices, as well as head of coal 
marketing in Asia, where his responsibilities included 
overseeing the Asian coal marketing business 
of Glencore and managing the administrative 
functions of the Hong Kong and Beijing offices.
In January 1990, he was made responsible for 
the worldwide coal business of Glencore for both 
marketing and industrial assets, and remained in 
this role until he became Chief Executive Officer 
in January 2002.
Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of 
South Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy 
from the University of Witwatersrand. Mr Glasenberg 
also holds an MBA from the University of Southern 
California. He is currently a non-executive director 
of UC Rusal plc (HKG:0486). Before joining Glencore, 
Mr Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson 
Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
Peter Coates AO
Non-Executive Director (Age 70)
Appointed: Peter Coates has been a Non-Executive 
Director since January 2014. Prior to this he served 
as an Executive Director from June to December 2013 
and a Non-Executive Director from April 2011 to 
May 2013. 
Committees: Chairman of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee.
Experience: Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 
as a senior executive in the coal department, 
Mr Coates had occupied many senior positions in a 
diverse range of resource companies, including those 
mining silver, lead, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal. 
When Glencore sold its Australian and South African 
coal assets to Xstrata in 2002, he joined Xstrata as 
chief executive of its coal business, stepping down 
in December 2007.
He was non-executive director and chairman of 
Xstrata Australia from January 2008 until August 
2009. From April 2008 until April 2011, he was 
non-executive chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. 
Mr Coates is non-executive chairman of Santos 
Limited (ASX:STO) and Sphere Minerals Limited 
(ASX:SPH) and a non-executive director of Event 
Hospitality and Entertainment Limited (ASX:EVT), 
and a past chairman of the Minerals Council of 
Australia, the NSW Minerals Council and the 
Australian Coal Association.
Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree 
in Mining Engineering from the University 
of New South Wales. He was appointed to the Office 
of the Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded 
the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy 
Medal for 2010. 73 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
Leonhard Fischer
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 53)
Appointed: Leonhard Fischer was appointed an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Chairman of the Audit Committee; 
member of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. 
Experience: Mr Fischer was appointed chief executive 
officer of BHF Kleinwort Benson Group S.A. 
(formerly RHJ International S.A.) (EBR:BHFKB) 
in January 2009, having been co-chief executive 
officer from May 2007. He is a director of Kleinwort 
Benson Bank Ltd and chairman of the supervisory 
board of BHF-Bank AG. 
Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur 
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the 
executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 
to March 2007. He joined Credit Suisse Group from 
Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the 
management board and head of the Corporates 
and Markets Division. Prior to this, he had been a 
member of the executive board of Dresdner Bank AG 
in Frankfurt.
Mr Fischer holds an M.A. in Finance from the 
University of Georgia.
William Macaulay
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 70)
Appointed: William Macaulay was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Member of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. 
Experience: Mr Macaulay is the chairman and 
chief executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, 
a private equity investment firm focused on the 
energy industry, and has been with the company 
since its founding in 1983.
Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a 
co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private 
equity buyout firm. From 1972 to 1982, he served 
as director of corporate finance at Oppenheimer 
& Co. with direct responsibility for the firm’s 
buyout business. He also served as president 
of Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Mr Macaulay is a director of Weatherford 
International (NYSE:WFT). He also serves on 
numerous private energy company boards. 
Mr Macaulay holds a B.B.A. degree (with honours) 
in Economics from City College of New York, 
and an MBA from the Wharton School of the 
University of Pennsylvania. He has also received 
an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree 
from Baruch College.
Peter Grauer
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director (Age 70)
Appointed: Peter Grauer was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013 
and became the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director in May 2014.
Committees: Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee; member of the Audit Committee. 
Experience: Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg 
Inc., the global financial media company that was 
founded in 1981. Mr Grauer was chairman and chief 
executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a 
member of Bloomberg’s board of directors since 1996. 
Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director 
of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to 
2000 when DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse 
First Boston and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking. 
He served as managing director and senior partner 
of CSFB Private Equity until 2002. Mr Grauer is 
a director of Blackstone (NYSE:BX) and Davita 
Healthcare Partners (NYSE:DVA). Mr Grauer is also a 
member of the International Business Council of the 
World Economic Forum, and a trustee of Rockefeller 
University.
Mr Grauer graduated from the University of 
North Carolina and the Harvard University 
Graduate School of Business Program for 
Management Development in 1975. 74 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Governance
Patrice Merrin
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 67)
Appointed: Patrice Merrin was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2014. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Following initial roles with Molson and 
Canadian Pacific, Ms Merrin worked at Sherritt, the 
Canadian diversified miner, for ten years until 2004, 
latterly as COO. She then became CEO of Luscar, 
Canada’s largest thermal coal producer. She is 
currently a non-executive director of Stillwater 
Mining (NYSE:SWC) and Novadaq Technologies Inc. 
(Nasdaq:NVDQ). She has been a director and 
then chairman of CML Healthcare (then TSX) 
from 2008 - 2013, of Enssolutions, a mine tailing 
solutions company, and of NB Power.
Ms Merrin was a director of the Alberta Climate 
Change and Emissions Management Corporation 
from 2009 to 2014. She was also a member of the 
Canadian Advisory Panel on Sustainable Energy 
Science and Technology from 2005 to 2006 and from 
2003 to 2006 was a member of Canada’s Round Table 
on the Environment and the Economy. 
Ms Merrin is a graduate of Queen’s University, 
Ontario and completed the Advanced Management 
Programme at INSEAD. 
John Mack
Independent Non-Executive Director 
(Age 71)
Appointed: John Mack was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of the Nomination 
Committee. 
Experience: Mr Mack previously served as chief 
executive officer of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 
until December 2009. He retired as chairman in 2011. 
Mr Mack first joined Morgan Stanley in May 1972, 
becoming a board director in 1987 and was named 
President in 1993. Before rejoining Morgan Stanley 
as chairman and chief executive officer in June 2005, 
Mr Mack served as co-chief executive officer of 
Credit Suisse Group and chief executive officer 
of Credit Suisse First Boston.
Mr Mack is a non-executive director of Enduring 
Hydro and Corinthian Ophthalmic. He is also 
non-executive chairman of Tri-Alpha Energy Inc. 
Mr Mack also serves on the Advisory Board of 
China Investment Corporation, is a member of 
the International Business Council of the World 
Economic Forum, the NYC Financial Services 
Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International 
Financial Advisory Council. 
Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University.
Officers
Steven Kalmin
Chief Financial Officer (Age 45)
Appointed: Steven Kalmin has been Chief Financial 
Officer since June 2005.
Experience: Mr Kalmin holds a Bachelor of Business 
(with distinction) from the University of Technology, 
Sydney and is a member of Chartered Accountants 
Australia and New Zealand and the Financial 
Services Institute of Australasia.
Before joining Glencore, Mr Kalmin worked for nine 
years at Horwath Chartered Accountants in Sydney, 
leaving the firm as a director.
John Burton
Company Secretary (Age 51)
Appointed: John Burton was appointed Company 
Secretary in September 2011.
Experience: He was formerly company secretary 
and general counsel of Informa plc and before that  
a partner of CMS Cameron McKenna in London 
specialising in corporate law. Mr Burton holds 
a B.A. degree in Law from Durham University. 
He was admitted as a Solicitor in England and 
Wales in 1990.
Directors and Officers
