 04 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report 
Ivan Glasenberg, Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Summary: 
• Financial market sentiment weakened during 2015 
and the focus in our sector quickly switched from 
cash distribution to cash preservation
• Our investors were concerned about the Company’s 
level of financial leverage. We rapidly put in place a 
strategy to address these concerns, culminating in 
the $13 billion debt reduction plan
• Our diversified portfolio, based around a core of Tier 
1 assets, coupled with the counter-cyclical nature of 
our marketing business, underpins Glencore’s ability 
to continue to be cash generative despite the current 
environment for commodities
Background
Financial market sentiment weakened 
considerably during the course of 2015, 
amid concerns over slowing economic 
growth. The commodity sector was 
particularly adversely affected by a 
succession of disappointing China 
macro-economic data, declining oil 
prices, and the strong US dollar and, as 
a result, sector focus quickly switched 
from cash distribution to balance sheet 
concerns and cash preservation. 
This led to further industry-wide cost 
and capex reductions, project closures 
and curtailments, asset sales, dividend  
cuts and equity issuance.
Robust performance despite 
difficult environment
The financial performance in 2015 
reflects our industrial activities’ 
exposure to lower commodity prices. 
Adjusted EBITDA declined 32% to 
$8.7 billion, compared to 2014.
Marketing delivered Adjusted EBIT 
of $2.5 billion in 2015 despite the 
commodity headwinds noted above, 
12% down on 2014. The business’ 
enhanced cyclical resilience and 
defensiveness helped to offset the 
impact of lower commodity prices, 
whereby earnings are underpinned by 
logistics activities/services, economies 
of scale and business diversification; 
2016 EBIT guidance range confirmed at 
$2.4 to $2.7 billion, adjusted somewhat 
below the long-term range, reflecting 
the lower net working capital levels.
Industrial assets Adjusted EBITDA 
declined 38% to $6.0 billion, compared 
to 2014, reflecting the impact of 
lower commodity prices, offset by 
currency benefits and cost and 
productivity improvements.  05 Glencore Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information
The unique flexibility of our capital 
structure enabled a working capital 
release of more than $6.6 billion, 
reflecting lower commodity prices,  
but also proactive working capital 
management. Net funding reduced by 
$8.5 billion during 2015 to $41.2 billion, 
while net debt at period end was 
$25.9 billion.
Re-positioning the balance sheet
During H2 2015, it became apparent 
that financial markets were concerned 
about the Group’s level of financial 
leverage. We rapidly put in place a 
plan to address these concerns, 
culminating in the $10.2 billion debt 
reduction plan announced in 
September. Further measures were 
communicated in December. In total, 
the initiatives announced are expected 
to support our end 2016 Net funding 
and Net debt targets of $32 – 33 billion 
and $17 – 18 billion respectively, which 
remain on track.
We remain focused on preserving our 
investment grade credit rating status. 
The steps that we have announced and 
taken so far have contributed to our 
current stable credit ratings from both 
major credit ratings’ agencies. 
Corporate governance/
Sustainability
It is with sadness to report that we 
have not achieved our goal of zero 
fatalities during 2015, whereby ten 
people lost their lives at our operations. 
Any loss of life is unacceptable and we 
continue to strengthen our efforts in 
this regard. In last year’s report, we 
highlighted steps being taken to 
address the safety performance at our 
“focus assets” , historically responsible 
for the majority of our safety incidents. 
These assets are located in challenging 
geographies, without a culture of 
safety prior to our involvement. We are 
pleased to report the delivery of 
positive results, with three of the 
five focus assets fatality-free 
throughout 2015. 
Improving health and safety 
performance has substantially 
progressed, achieving, one year ahead 
of schedule, our targeted 50% 
reduction in lost time injury rate 
(against 2010 baseline), with further 
reductions being targeted.
Looking forward
Our diversified asset portfolio, based 
around a core of Tier 1 assets, 
combined with our highly resilient 
marketing business, underpins 
Glencore’s ability to continue to be 
comfortably cash generative, despite 
the current environment 
for commodities.
Furthermore, our continued proactive 
balance sheet initiatives will lead to a 
significant reduction in our net 
funding and net debt levels and ensure 
a high degree of flexibility regardless 
of future market conditions.
 
Ivan Glasenberg 
Chief Executive Officer
