 08 
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC  Annual Report 2015  Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
In this letter I would like to focus on four key 
topics:
1. Georgia turns 25;
2. Expansion into pharmaceutical retail and 
wholesale business;
3. Good governance leads to good returns; 
and
4. Management make things happen;
Georgia turns 25:
In 2015 Georgia celebrated its 25th 
anniversary as an independent state. 
Although the country is over three millennia 
old, it was reborn when the Soviet Union 
collapsed in 1991. In its recent history 
Georgia has managed to transform itself 
from a corrupt and failed state into a young 
democracy with a rapidly growing economy, 
supported by a pro-business reforms. Over 
this period of time, GDP per capita has 
increased from US$500 to US$3,700 and, 
over the last 12 years, on the back of the 
reforms, real GDP has grown by average 
of 6%. Let me give you a brief summary 
as to why and how this has happened. 
Georgia’s independence in 1991 turned 
out to be a very expensive economic 
exercise. By 1995, Georgia’s real GDP 
collapsed to 28% of its 1990 level. This 
resulted in desperately poor and lawless 
society with no electricity, no gas, no 
heating, no telecommunication, no 
roads and no healthcare. In the 1990s 
Georgia also fought three civil wars and 
ended up losing 20% of its land. The 
second half of the 1990s was marked by 
declining crime rates, but also widespread 
corruption, weak state institutions and 
continued poverty. Therefore, people of 
Georgia demanded radical change and 
after the Rose Revolution in 2003, the 
new government managed to eradicate 
corruption and initiate pro-business 
reforms, among which was a reduction 
of the number of taxes from 21 to only 
six currently. In addition, the government 
embarked on a mass privatisation process 
while building strong state institutions. In 
2016, the World Bank named Georgia as 
the top reformer globally over the past 12 
years in its Ease of Doing Business Survey. 
The country ranks as one of the least 
corrupt in surveys done by Transparency 
International, and Trace International 
and Georgia is consistently ranked as 
the top performer in country policy and 
institutional assessments compiled by 
different organisations. Supported by a 
corruption-free environment and Ease of 
Doing Business reforms, the flow of foreign 
direct investment (FDI) has remained 
strong, standing at 9.7% of GDP in 2015.
In 2012, Georgia took yet another important 
step towards strengthening its democracy. 
Following parliamentary elections the 
country experienced a democratic and 
peaceful transfer of power – for the first 
time in recent history. The Georgian Dream 
coalition won the election and promised a 
more independent judiciary, an even better 
business environment, free media and 
healthcare for the entire population. In three 
years, the new government has managed 
to deliver on its promises and its healthcare 
reform is widely regarded as one of the 
government’s biggest achievements. The 
newly appointed Prime Minister has put 
forth new reform initiatives to boost growth 
and accelerate foreign investments. These 
new reforms aim to reduce corporate profit 
tax to zero, invest more in infrastructure, 
invest in labour market-driven education 
and create a single touchpoint for 
corporates to deal with the government 
institutions – making it even easier to do 
business in Georgia. The leading political 
parties recognise the need for a good 
business environment to attract FDI, which 
investment continues to play a crucial role 
in the country’s success. FDI (Foreign Direct 
investment) has averaged 10.0% of GDP in 
the past ten years, and with its business-
friendly environment – ease of doing 
business, professional and independent 
state institutions, and a corruption-free 
environment – Georgia is firmly on the 
path to becoming the investment and 
services hub of the region. With visitor 
numbers growing from 560,000 in 2007 to 
nearly 6 million in 2015, Georgia has the 
potential to also become the financial and 
healthcare services hub of the region. 
In this very short period of time, the 
Georgian population has managed to 
develop and grow the country. I have 
Dear Shareholders,
2015 was an eventful year for Georgia 
Healthcare Group. The Company 
successfully completed its public listing 
on the premium segment of the London 
Stock Exchange and raised US$100 million 
to fund its expansion plans. I would like 
to thank all our new shareholders for their 
support throughout the process. The 
capital we raised supports our growth plans 
and our target to double 2015 healthcare 
revenues by 2018, while achieving c.30% 
EBITDA margin. This target will be achieved 
by expanding GHG’s market share in the 
hospital segment by number of beds from 
the current 27% level to c.30%. Following 
the IPO, GHG has already accelerated the 
complete renovation of two hospitals, and 
is in the process of rolling out a nationwide 
chain of ambulatory clinics – the first of 
its kind in the country – where GHG’s 
revenue market share is currently just 1% 
and its aim is to grow this to c.5% by the 
end of 2018. Introducing new services – 
treatments which are currently not available 
in Georgia – will be another contributor to 
this growth. The Company’s own growth 
plans are underpinned by the government’s 
ongoing initiatives to make healthcare more 
accessible to all Georgians. You will be able 
to read about how GHG aims to deliver on 
each of its strategic pillars later in this report. 
2015 was an eventful year for GHG. 
The Company is well positioned to 
deliver on its strategy of doubling its 
2015 healthcare revenues by 2018. 09
Strategic report
Performance
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Overview Financial statements Additional information Governance
been closely observing this remarkable 
transformation and the key take-away 
for me is the following: unless a corrupt 
and dysfunctional state goes fully bust, 
it is difficult to transform it. Once a 
transformation starts, it is difficult to stop it.
Expansion into pharmaceutical retail and 
wholesale business:
In March 2016 we announced one of 
our largest acquisitions and a move that 
marked our expansion into pharmaceutical 
distribution business. Initially, we did not 
actively plan to go into the pharmaceutical 
business Instead we worked on projects 
to independently secure and optimise 
our pharmaceutical supply chain for the 
hospitals, the ambulatory clinics and our 
medical insurance business. However, when 
an opportunity to acquire a pharmaceutical 
distributor presented itself, GHG’s 
management team saw this as a strategic 
fit and since they were able to conclude 
it on very attractive terms, this was to me 
and the Board a “must-do” deal. Subject 
to regulatory approvals, GHG signed a 
binding Memorandum of Understanding to 
acquire GPC, the third largest pharmacy 
chain in Georgia. This move supports our 
aim of being the leading integrated player 
in the Georgian healthcare ecosystem – a 
GEL 3.4 billion market. It positions GHG 
as the major purchaser of pharmaceutical 
products in Georgia. The acquisition price 
of GPC implies 5.7 times EV/EBITDA 
before eliminating unnecessary costs 
and capturing further cost and revenue 
synergies. Post-synergy this is reduced to 
3.3 times. The pharmacy business will be 
highly synergistic both to reduce the cost 
of pharmaceuticals for our hospitals and 
medical insurance business as well as to 
crosssell through GPC’s loyalty programme. 
GPC has c.12 million customer interactions 
per annum, and a strong brand. GHG will 
open GPC pharmacies on the premises 
of its c.40 hospitals and large ambulatory 
clinics, which is expected to significantly 
boost the revenue of GPC. The move is 
strategic and I strongly believe it will create 
huge shareholder value going forward.
Good governance leads to good returns:
We at GHG, strongly believe that great 
institutions are only built with robust 
governance, and that, without it, they 
cannot deliver sustainable value for their 
shareholders. We think that a high-
quality, diverse and independent Board 
is extremely important for the success of 
the Company. We see the Board as an 
institution, which is not only performing its 
fiduciary duties of management oversight 
and strategy setting, but also providing 
guidance and coaching to our top and 
mid-level executive management team. 
In the case of GHG, the Board’s role of 
oversight is made relatively straightforward 
by naturally aligning the interests of the 
shareholders and the management team. 
To achieve this, we award long-term vesting 
shares (up to five years) to the management 
team and ensure that share compensation 
makes up a large proportion (e.g. 80-90%) 
of total annual compensation. In this way, 
we create a long-term alignment between 
the interests of the management team 
and the shareholders. If shareholders 
make money, the management team 
makes money and if the shareholders 
lose money, the management team also 
loses money. With this simple approach, 
in addition to being executives, the 
management team feels and acts more 
like shareholders – because they are. 
Out of nine Board members, seven are 
independent and six are non-BGEO Group 
members. The Board meets every quarter 
to discuss and set strategy, to approve 
key projects and transactions and to 
review and approve recommendations 
from the committees: Audit, Clinical, 
Remuneration and Nomination. 
We have a diverse Board. David Morrison 
is our Senior Independent Board member, 
who also chairs our Audit Committee. He is 
well aware of our fiduciary responsibilities, 
and regulatory obligations, and knows 
very well how checks and balances work 
in a public company. His long tenure at 
Sullivan and Cromwell serves him well in this 
regard. Neil Janin heads our Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees. His 
management consulting work for 25 years 
with McKinsey serves the GHG Board and 
management team very well. Neil spends 
time with the management team to help 
them brainstorm on different strategic 
issues and provides invaluable guidance. 
Neil’s management coaching skills and 
out-of-the-box thinking serve both the 
Board and the management well. Both Neil 
and David have an in-depth understanding 
of Georgia, as they have been Board 
members at the BGEO Group for the past 
6 years. Tim Elsigood is our hospital guru. 
He has extensive experience of running 
hospital businesses in Western, Central and 
Eastern Europe, as well as in North Africa. 
Tim knows very well what works and what 
does not work in the hospital business, 
which makes it easy for us to understand 
the strategic priorities for GHG. Dr. Michael 
Anderson heads our Clinical Quality and 
Safety Committee. As a doctor, he has 
great input into how to improve the quality 
of our services. Ingeborg Oie, a healthcare 
research analyst and MD at Jefferies and 
a research analyst at Goldman Sachs, 
helps us to better understand investors’ 
ways of thinking and the Company’s long-
term strategy. Jacques Richier, another 
independent director, is CEO of Allianz 
France. His input in making strategic 
decisions for our medical insurance 
business is critical. Allan Hirst’s extensive 
experience as CEO of Citibank in multiple 
countries helps us to better understand our 
government relations strategy. The Board is 
extremely motivated and engaged in making 
GHG a successful institution and ultimately 
creating strong value for shareholders. 
Management make things happen:
Back in 2010 after the global financial crisis, 
Bank of Georgia’s intention was to divest 
its insurance subsidiary to raise capital. At 
the time Nick Gamkrelidze was CEO of our 
insurance company, Aldagi. Before making 
the decision to sell, the Board called in Nick 
to understand his plans in more detail. Nick 
presented the strategy of entering into the 
healthcare services sector, consolidating it 
and integrating it with our existing medical 
insurance business. The healthcare sector 
was ten times larger than the insurance 
sector and totally fragmented. The Board 
was convinced by Nick that investing 
in the healthcare business presented a 
much bigger opportunity than raising 
money from its divestment. Indeed, after 
embarking on the healthcare strategy, in 
less than five years Nick successfully led the 
transformation of a loss making company 
into a business with a market capitalisation 
of US$350 million following last year’s 
successful IPO. Nick is a visionary leader, 
with great execution skills. He learns fast 
and develops even faster, and he has not 
been shy to surround himself with a team 
of top class executives. The management 
team of GHG is young, smart, energetic, 
and gets things done in a fast and efficient 
manner. The management team has 
demonstrated that it can grow the business 
organically as well as through acquisitions. 
In the past five years the management 
team has completed over 30 successful 
acquisitions and integrations. Identifying 
and eliminating unnecessary costs and 
extracting synergies is in the DNA of this 
organisation. In Georgia, we do not have 
middle names, but if GHG’s management 
team had one it would be “efficiency”.
The management team at GHG is extremely 
motivated to develop themselves, the 
Company and the country’s healthcare 
system. Together with all the employees 
of GHG, they are not only building a 
great Company, but more importantly 
raising the standard of healthcare in the 
country. I am extremely honoured to have 
the opportunity to serve as Chairman of 
this great institution – one that we aim 
soon to be a billion Dollar company.
Irakli Gilauri
Chairman of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC
