 GFINITY plc.  
|
  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015
7
Chief Executive’s Review
This was a year in which Gﬁ nity 
ﬁ rmly established itself as one of the 
leading companies in the eSports 
industry.  We have quickly built a 
reputation for delivering high quality 
competitions; both on and off-line and 
producing some of the leading eSports 
broadcasts. Our knowledge of what 
is required to deliver all aspects of a 
successful eSports event, coupled with 
the relationship built with publishers 
and our following within the eSports 
community mean we have established 
a real ﬁ rst mover advantage, which 
will be difﬁ cult for others to replicate.
The company’s listing on AIM 
in December 2014 was a major 
milestone for the business, but it 
was only one part of what was a 
remarkable year that saw Gﬁ nity:
■  Exponentially increase its global 
following for both viewing and 
participating in events
■  Create ﬁ rm relationships 
with publishers, players and 
YouTube ambassadors
■  Build a physical arena, in 
conjunction with Vue Cinemas – ﬁ rst 
venue of its kind in the world
■  Achieve a strong online 
presence through its re-
launched website - Gﬁ nity.net
■  Become renowned within the 
industry for quality of delivery
The Company generated revenues 
totalling £560,828, up from £213,450 for 
the equivalent 12 month period to 30 June 
2014, reﬂ ecting the strong operational 
progress made during the period and 
marking a step-change in the Company’s 
development. This increase indicates 
the potential for monetisation within the 
eSports sector. Nonetheless, the focus of 
the Company over the period in question 
has remained on building its brand and 
delivering world-class online and ofﬂ ine 
eSports events to a global audience. 
Admission to AIM
Gﬁ nity successfully completed an IPO 
on the London Stock Exchange’s AIM 
market on 22 December 2015, raising 
£3.5 million before expenses. The listing 
on AIM certainly has enhanced the 
Company’s credibility and proﬁle and 
assisted the growth in its business. The 
proceeds have provided the Company 
with working capital to invest in the 
Gﬁ nity brand, launch the ﬁ rst dedicated 
eSports Arena and support the 2015 
Gﬁ nity Championships extensive event 
schedule. Coupled with earlier private 
fund-raising rounds, a total of £5.8 million 
(net of fees) was raised during the period.
UK’s ﬁ rst dedicated 
eSports Arena
In February 2015, Gﬁ nity entered into a 
strategic collaboration with Vue Cinemas 
to create the UK’s only dedicated eSports 
event arena at Fulham Broadway, 
London. The new arena is a key part 
of the Company’s long term growth 
strategy to organise and host major 
live eSports tournaments and also to 
stream events to a global audience 
of fans through its online platform.
Prior to the deal with Vue Cinemas we 
had staged our third Gﬁ nity branded 
event (G3) at the Copperbox in London’s 
Olympic Park. It was the largest eSports 
event ever staged in the UK. This 
event attracted nearly 4,000 paying 
spectators across two days and received 
8.7 million online views from over 25 
countries. By collaborating with Vue, 
however, the Company has been able to 
accelerate its plans to create a large and 
dedicated site in central London without 
incurring major upfront capital costs. 
The deal was done just in time to host 
the 2015 Gﬁ nity Championship series at 
the new venue. Commencing in March 
2015, by the time the series ended in 
September 2015, 23 live events had 
been held across a number of weekends 
and on selected weekday evenings. 
These matches were streamed live on 
internet TV channels including Twitch, 
Gﬁ nity.net and MLG.tv, broadcast in 10 
languages and viewed across more than 
25 countries.  
Games featured in the tournaments 
included some of the world’s most 
popular electronic games such as Call 
of Duty: Advanced Warfare; Counter 
Strike: Global Offensive; FIFA 15 and 
Starcraft II. The tournaments have drawn 
some of the most popular professional 
teams and players to the UK, including 
OpTic, Denial, Ninjas in Pyjamas, Fnatic 
and Team EnVyUs, competing for up to 
$100,000 in total prize money per event.
Overall, the tournaments were viewed 
by almost 60 million, which exceeded 
management expectations set at the 
time of Gﬁ nity’s admission to AIM. 
Creating an Online 
Community of Gamers
In June 2014, the Company’s website, 
Gﬁ nity.net was re-launched with a brand 
new platform designed to create a 
seamless user experience with enhanced 
features. The Company typically stages 
over 4,000 matches per week online 
and we are pleased to report that since 
the launch of the new platform there 
Neville Upton
Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
GFINITY plc.  
|
  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015
has been a rapid increase in registered 
users from 43,000 as at 30 June 2014 
to over 400,000 as of 30 June 2015. 
In addition, over the same period 
the company’s Twitter and Facebook 
following has increased from 84,000 to 
134,000 and 5,000 to 91,000 respectively, 
increasing the number of positive 
advocates within the online community.  
 
Throughout the year, Gﬁ nity has staged 
a number of highly popular online 
tournaments, in addition to the leagues, 
ladders and cups that run throughout the 
year. These have included the PewDiePie 
Cup in September 2014, an event run 
in conjunction with the world’s most 
viewed YouTuber – a Swedish gaming 
enthusiast – which saw 10,833 games 
of Speed Runners played as well as the 
KSI Cup in November 2014; an event 
which saw over 4,000 games of FIFA 
15 played across a single weekend.
In the longer term there is a large 
opportunity through its eSports events 
and widening audiences to draw in 
sponsors, advertisers and broadcasters 
who want access to a highly deﬁ ned 
and targeted demographic of 18-
34 year olds, predominantly male, 
that play and watch eSports.    
Sponsorship and 
Marketing
On 11 December 2014, Gﬁ nity entered 
into a two-year sales and marketing 
contract with Pitch International for Pitch 
to package and sell sponsorship and 
broadcasting rights on the Company’s 
behalf. Pitch is a leading sports 
marketing agency and distributor of 
sports media rights worldwide. 
In April 2015, through Pitch International 
we had a major breakthrough when we 
signed a major sponsorship agreement 
for The Sun to become Gﬁ nity’s ofﬁ cial 
newspaper and online news partner 
in the UK and Ireland. The backing of 
such a large organisation is not only 
great news for us but also a huge boost 
to the UK’s growing eSports sector.
The two-year commercial partnership is 
the ﬁ rst such major agreement signed 
by Gﬁ nity and will contribute signiﬁ cantly 
towards the Company achieving its 
revenue targets this year and in 2016. 
Outlook
The Company has generated relatively 
low sales to date and this is not expected 
to change materially in the short-term 
although the Company does expect to 
see revenues increasing through 2016. 
The Company’s focus is to continue 
to maximise growth of its user base 
and consolidate its reputation for 
delivering the highest quality eSports 
events and expanding the size of the 
online community. The success of the 
2015 Gﬁ nity eSports Championship 
demonstrated Gﬁ nity’s ability to provide 
sponsors and broadcasters with a level 
of regular top level eSports content 
that has not been available in the UK 
before. The Company’s partnership 
with Pitch international, means that 
Gﬁ nity now has both a product which 
it believes will be of value to sponsors 
and broadcasters as well as a greatly 
enhanced capability to sell to such 
groups. Additionally, Gﬁ nity expects to 
launch its online retail offering in the ﬁ nal 
quarter of 2015, while increasing the 
focus on monetising the viewership of 
the 2016 Gﬁ nity Championship series.
The Company is in dialogue with 
several potential partners and expects 
to sign other sponsorship deals next 
year. As a result, the Board is conﬁ dent 
of continuing to grow and deliver 
shareholder value in the mid-to-long term.
Nonetheless, achieving this additional 
value will require further investment.  
As a result, immediately following 
the publication of these results, the 
company intends to announce a further 
fundraise, to ensure it has sufﬁ cient 
funds available to continue its growth.
8
Business Review & Strategic Report
