 10 
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC  Annual Report 2015  Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
2015 capped an extraordinary 
two-year growth period for 
Georgia Healthcare Group.
During the course of 2014 and 2015, the Group 
grew its operations substantially further becoming 
clear market leader among healthcare services 
and medical insurance providers in Georgia.
quarter of 2016 onwards, due to reduced 
expenditure on interest – we repaid GEL 
104.4 million borrowings at the end of 2015/
beginning of 2016, from IPO proceeds. 
This reduced total borrowings to GEL 
105.6 million as at 31 January 2016. As 
a result, our net debt to EBITDA was 
zero at the end of 2015, since cash and 
bank deposits exceeded borrowings.
Revenue, at GEL 242.7 million for the year, 
increased by 22.5% y-o-y, supported in 
particular by strong 17.3% organic growth 
in the Healthcare Services business, where 
revenue increased by 32.5% to GEL 195.0 
million. Margins in the Healthcare Services 
business also improved significantly 
with an EBITDA margin for the year of 
27.4%, compared to 24.3% in 2014. This 
improvement reflects the increasing 
utilisation and scale of our business as 
well as the capturing of ongoing efficiency 
savings and procurement benefits from the 
integration of recently acquired hospitals. 
In the fourth quarter of 2015, this margin 
increased further to 29.8%, towards our 
target of c.30% EBITDA margin. We benefit 
significantly from our economies of scale 
and this was reflected in 14.8 percentage 
points of positive operating leverage 
during the year. We expect to deliver 
strong levels of organic growth in 2016, 
as we have done in previous years, with 
margins enhanced year-on-year together 
with positive operating leverage, which 
is one of the metrics we follow closely.
The increased focus on the Universal 
Healthcare Programme in Georgia has 
seen a substantial shift in revenue towards 
the healthcare services market, leading 
to a significant industry-wide reduction 
in medical insurance revenue from the 
previous State Insurance Programme 
(SIP). As a result, our medical insurance 
business experienced a 20.8% reduction 
in revenue during the year. Against this 
backdrop, it delivered an extremely resilient 
performance by refocusing on the private 
medical insurance market, where we 
grew our revenues by 32.0% as a result of 
introducing a differentiated product suite 
and improved pricing. Costs remained well 
managed and the combined ratio improved 
by 2.8 percentage points during the year 
to 96.7%. EBITDA from the insurance 
business more than doubled to GEL 2.6 
million. Net profit increased by 76.4% to 
GEL 1.8 million. Price increases to a number 
of insurance products (in response to the 
impact of the Lari devaluation in 2015) 
leaves the business in good shape for 2016. 
Apart from focusing on capturing further 
benefits of scale, the main Key Performance 
Indicator (KPI) for our insurance business 
in 2016 will be capturing more synergies 
with our high margin outpatient business 
and retaining at least twice as much claims 
within our own outpatient network.
We made significant progress in each of 
our strategic priorities during the year. 
At our healthcare services business, we 
continued to expand significantly in the 
At the end of 2015, we had 35 hospitals 
with 2,670 hospital beds representing a 
substantially increased market share of 
26.6% of Georgia’s total hospital beds. In 
addition, in 2015 we began to implement 
our ambulatory clinic strategy to develop 
a nationwide chain of ambulatory clinics, 
and have already opened four clusters of 
ambulatory clinics by the end of 2015. 
In November 2015, following our listing 
on the Premium Segment of the London 
Stock Exchange, we also became the 
first Georgian company outside of the 
financial sector with shares trading on 
an international stock market. As part of 
this process, we raised c.US$100 million 
for further investment in the development 
of the business over the next two-three 
years. Recently we also become a 
member of the FTSE All Share Index.
The 2015 results clearly reflect these 
significant developments and I am pleased 
to report a net profit of GEL 23.6 million, 
a 78.1% increase year-on-year. This profit 
was achieved despite the impact of a 
currency exchange adjustment relating 
to the proceeds received from the capital 
raise and before the positive impact of 
utilising some of the proceeds to reduce 
the Group’s existing indebtedness. 
Adjusting for these two issues, our run-rate 
net profit for the fourth quarter of 2015 
was GEL 9.5 million, or GEL 28.0 million 
for the full year. We expect significant 
improvement in our earnings from the first  11
Strategic report
Performance
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Overview Financial statements Additional information Governance
higher revenue hospital segments in Tbilisi 
with the acquisition, in August 2015, of 
the High Technology Medical Centre 
University Clinic (HTMC). This acquisition 
of the single largest hospital and former 
competitor in the country increased our 
market share by hospital beds to 26.6%, 
as well as enabling us to be represented in 
the higher margin diagnostics and oncology 
segments in Tbilisi. Furthermore, we have 
already started renovation work on both 
our, Deka and Sunstone hospital facilities. 
These two newly modernised multi-profile 
hospitals are expected to be fully completed 
and operational in 2017. Our strategy to 
increase our share of healthcare revenues 
through the roll-out of a national network 
of ambulatory clinics has begun. By the 
end of January 2016 we had opened four 
ambulatory clusters in a number densely 
populated areas of Tbilisi and one in Kutaisi, 
the second largest city in Georgia. We 
plan to open at least six further ambulatory 
clusters in Tbilisi and other major cities in 
Georgia during 2016. This is an extremely 
significant growth opportunity for the Group 
over the next few years; we plan to build 
significant market share in what is a highly-
fragmented and high-margin segment of 
a market in which we currently have only 
approximately 1% share of the market. 
We have recently moved into the pharma 
business by agreeing to acquire a 100% 
equity stake in JSC GPC (“GPC”) (the 
acquisition remains subject to relevant 
regulatory approvals). GPC is the third 
largest pharmaceutical retailer and 
wholesaler in Georgia, and its acquisition 
clearly fits our strategy to be the leading 
integrated player in the Georgian healthcare 
eco-system. It positions us as a major 
purchaser of pharmaceutical products 
in Georgia and offers very important 
synergies to capture through decreased 
cost of goods sold in our services business. 
Moreover, GPC’s strong customer loyalty 
franchise, with one million monthly customer 
interactions and 0.5 million members of 
its loyalty programs, is expected to feed 
referrals to GHG’s ambulatory clinics, further 
enhancing our existing “patient capture” 
model. In this letter I would also like to 
welcome GPC’s management team and 
more than 1,600 employees to our Group.
The breadth and depth of the expertise 
and persistent efforts of our senior and 
middle management team have been 
instrumental in delivering our growth 
strategy and we remain firmly on track to 
more than double 2015 healthcare services 
revenues by 2018. Healthcare services 
revenue increased by 32.5% year-on-year 
in 2015 with organic revenue growth of 
more than 17%, which was supplemented 
by the impact of acquisitions completed 
over the last few years. In addition to the 
significant business opportunities available 
over the next few years, we continue to 
expect the overall Georgian healthcare 
services market revenue to grow at a 
compound rate that exceeds 13% per 
annum during the 2014-18 period. 
There are still many service gaps in Georgia 
which, as the largest provider of healthcare 
services in the country, GHG is focused 
on covering. In 2015 we successfully 
introduced new services to the country 
including liver transplant surgery, children’s 
cardiosurgery, oncologic radiotherapy 
in western Georgia and many other 
services. There is still a significant pipeline 
of similar services to explore and our 
team is constantly working to close these 
service gaps so as to enable us to fulfill 
our mission to provide Georgian citizens 
with access to high-quality healthcare 
services without leaving the country. 
Recruiting and retaining highly skilled 
personnel, both on senior as well as middle 
level, is one of our top priorities, considering 
the growth dynamics and current gaps 
in certain fields in Georgia. Therefore we 
will be further working on development 
and expansion of our management bench 
in 2016 to support our growth plans. 
We particularly focus on the training and 
education of our staff, as well as sourcing 
a new generation of medical personnel. 
We remain the only healthcare institution in 
Georgia to have in-house training of our own 
personnel. Since the beginning of 2014, we 
have invested over GEL 3.0 million in training 
and have a dedicated staff of 45 trainers, 
largely focusing on the areas of nursing and 
critical care. Developing a new generation of 
nurses and doctors is high on our agenda; 
to address this we facilitated the opening 
of a nursing college at the leading medical 
university in Georgia and have launched 
residency programmes in over ten fields. 
Both of these initiatives are fully operational 
now and we expect the young generation 
of doctors and nurses to further improve 
the quality of care for our patients.
In the medical insurance business, we plan 
to leverage opportunities from the reform of 
the Georgian healthcare sector to increase 
our private medical insurance customer 
base. During 2015, we increased our market 
share from 36.0% to 38.4%, whilst growing 
our revenues from private medical insurance 
products by 32%. There are significant 
synergies between our healthcare services 
and medical insurance businesses and the 
insurance business is playing a significant 
role in our ambulatory business expansion 
strategy. During 2015, for example, only 
GEL 3.5 million or 33.7% of total ambulatory 
claims was paid to ambulatory clinics 
within the Group. We expect that this 
number should double at least in 2016. 
From a macroeconomic perspective, 
Georgia’s performance has been 
remarkably resilient against the challenging 
backdrop in which many of Georgia’s 
regional trading partners have suffered 
economically as a result of falling oil 
prices. During 2015, Georgia delivered real 
GDP growth of 2.8%, whilst inflation was 
maintained below the 5% target range. 
Foreign Direct Investment continued to be 
strong; tourist numbers – a significant driver 
of US$ inflows for the country – continue 
to rise and, as a result, the Georgian 
Government’s fiscal position continues 
to be strong. The Universal Healthcare 
Programme remains a significant priority 
for the Government and Government 
expenditure on healthcare will increase 
by 81.4% from GEL 487.9 million in 2013 
to GEL 885.0 million in 2016 according to 
the approved government budget. This 
ongoing increase in expected Government 
healthcare spending underpins the 
substantial organic growth opportunities 
for the Group. The Government’s 
budgeted spend on healthcare, however 
still remains low compared to many other 
countries at just over 2% of GDP and 
approximately 7% of annual tax revenues.
As a result Georgia Healthcare Group is 
in extremely good shape to benefit over 
the next few years from the combination 
of its position as the largest healthcare 
services and medical insurance provider in 
the fast-growing, predominantly privately-
owned, Georgian healthcare services 
market. We have grown rapidly in recent 
years, driven by the significant organic 
expansion of existing facilities, and by 
selectively acquiring and integrating a 
number of complementary businesses 
and assets. We expect the Government to 
continue to prioritise healthcare services 
and this, combined with both organic 
and further acquisition opportunities, 
leaves the Group well positioned to deliver 
strong growth in 2016 and beyond. 
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze, 
CEO of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC
This Strategic Report, set out on 
pages 2 to 66 was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 7 April 2016 
and signed on its behalf by Nikoloz 
Gamkrelidze, Chief Executive Officer.
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze
Chief Executive Officer
