 Business Review & Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
GFINITY plc.  
|
  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2015
I have great pleasure in presenting our 
maiden Annual Report and Accounts 
as a public company following our 
listing on AIM in December 2014. 
The year to 30 June 2015 has been a 
very successful one for the Company, 
during which we exceeded the 
strategic goals we set ourselves at the 
beginning of the year and established 
ourselves as one of the leading online 
and ofﬂ ine electronic sports - eSports 
- providers in the world.  Gﬁ nity has, 
in a short space of time, become a 
widely-recognised ‘‘destination’’ for 
gamers in the UK and internationally.
Landmark achievements
The Company reached a key milestone in 
the middle of the year with its admission 
on AIM on 22 December 2014, raising 
£3.5 million before expenses. In the 
six months since the IPO, with the 
monies raised, we have accelerated our 
growth strategy building on the solid 
foundations laid earlier in the year.  
At the beginning of the year, in August 
2014, we hosted G3, our third and largest 
to date, Gﬁ nity branded event at the 
Copperbox in London’s Olympic Park. 
The ﬁ rst half of the year also saw rapid 
growth in registrations for our website, 
Gﬁ nity.net, which had been relaunched 
just prior to the start of the period, with 
a brand new platform designed to 
create a seamless user experience with 
enhanced features. In December 2014, 
Gﬁ nity signed a two-year agreement with 
Pitch International who played a leading 
role in securing the partnership with 
Vue Cinemas. Gﬁ nity opened the UK’s 
ﬁ rst dedicated eSports arena, in Fulham 
Broadway, London in March 2015 and 
this arena has hosted the 2015 Gﬁ nity 
Championship Series. In April 2015 we 
were delighted to announce The Sun 
newspaper as the ﬁ rst major sponsorship 
partner, as part of a two year agreement.
Continuing growth of 
eSports phenomenon
The computer gaming industry and in 
particular the eSports segment within that 
are growing rapidly, as part of a long term 
shift in the way in which people consume 
their media.  The gaming industry is 
now bigger than both the music and 
ﬁ lm industries and industry specialists 
NewZoo report that it is expected to reach 
a value of over $100 billion by 2017.
Within that, eSports goes from strength 
to strength. In 2014, leading platform 
Twitch.TV announced that during 2014 
it had over 100 million unique visitors a 
month, more than double the total for the 
previous year. NewZoo estimated that at 
the end of 2014 there were 205 million 
eSports enthusiasts globally. By 2017 they 
estimate that this will grow to 335 million.  
The biggest events are already ﬁ lling 
arenas and drawing viewership levels 
that dwarf most traditional sports. The 
League of Legends Finals (2014) held 
at Sangam Arena, South Korea had 
40,000 spectators and 27 million viewers 
online. DotA “The International” in 
2015 meanwhile saw competitors from 
around the world compete in Seattle, 
USA for a prize pot of over $18 million.
Signiﬁ cant opportunity 
for monetisation 
and growth
To date Gﬁ nity’s strategy has been to 
build its reputation and following in the 
eSports sector, rather than pursuing short 
term revenues. Nonetheless, the Directors 
believe that having gained a large ﬁ rst 
mover advantage within this sector, the 
potential for monetisation is signiﬁ cant.
Gﬁ nity has already demonstrated a 
proven ability to attract viewership and 
registered users in a demographic that’s 
attractive to sponsors. Competition for 
content among broadcast platforms 
will drive value for content providers 
and there are multiple opportunities 
for additional revenues including; 
publisher partnerships, subscriptions, 
ticket sales and merchandise. 
Within three years Gﬁ nity expects to have 
sold out events with online viewership 
growing year on year. We also plan 
to have a premium pay per view or 
subscription service featuring enhanced 
content. Additionally the increase in the 
number of registered users of Gﬁ nity.
net will drive more paid subscribers.  
The Company will also continue to 
expand its network of sponsors and 
broadcasting deals around the world. 
In the short term additional resources are 
needed to fulﬁ l this potential and a further 
round of fund raising will start immediately 
following the release of these results.
Gﬁ nity have a strong and capable 
management team with breadth of 
eSports and business experience that is 
second to none and I have no doubt they 
will be able to capture this opportunity 
and deliver shareholder value.
Finally, I would like to thank our clients 
and partners for their continued support. 
Above all, I would like to thank all of 
our employees for their hard work and 
enthusiasm, which have enabled the 
great successes of 2014 and positioned 
Gﬁ nity for a strong 2015 and beyond.
6
 Tony Collyer
Non-Executive Chairman
