 4 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“ The effective stewardship of the Group  
is enhanced by the wealth of experience 
and range of expertise of its members. 
Together, we are committed to building  
a stronger Group for the future and 
delivering long term sustainable value  
to our shareholders and improving  
services for our customers.” 
Andrew Allner, 
Chairman
GOVERNANCE
Read more about our relations 
with shareholders  
on page 62 
Our aim is to make a 
positive contribution to the 
communities in which we 
operate and wider society.  Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 5
I would like to thank Keith for the significant contribution he has made in his 
four years with the Group. The process to appoint a successor is well underway. 
There have been no other changes to the composition of the Board.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND EVALUATION
In my role as Chairman, I strive to ensure your Board is highly effective 
and believe that regular and thorough review and evaluation aid continual 
development of the Board and its members. 
This year the Board made good progress in delivering against its 2014/15 
priorities and has clear objectives for the year ahead, which are detailed on  
page 53.
In addition to an internal Board evaluation, led by the Group Company 
Secretary, in the first half of the year, an independent external evaluation of the 
Board took place later in the year. Building upon the internal review, the theme 
of this review was forward-looking and developmental. The review found good 
Board dynamics, open dialogue and constructive challenge, with a high standard 
of governance, and made a number of recommendations, including greater  
top-down consideration of risk and stakeholder management. View 
recommendations from the evaluation in the corporate governance report on page 61 
OUR PEOPLE ARE STRONGER TOGETHER
Go-Ahead’s people are its most valuable asset. During my regular visits to our 
operating companies, and through my attendance at the Group’s management 
conferences, I am continually impressed by the professionalism and dedication of 
our teams who are committed to delivering good services for our passengers, 
from the executive management cascading all through the organisation.
Go-Ahead has always operated within a devolved management structure.  
We believe this is a real strength for the Group, empowering our people 
to make local decisions and respond quickly to the changing needs of the 
passengers and communities we serve. We trust our experienced management 
teams to run our companies effectively, while having robust processes in place 
to ensure accountability back to executive directors and the Board. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our people who work  
hard every day to provide good services to our passengers and create value  
for our shareholders. View our people information on page 29 
A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION
As a commercial organisation, our aim is to generate value for our shareholders 
while fulfilling our wider responsibilities to other stakeholders. We support 
economic growth, enabling over one billion passenger journeys each year, 
carrying millions of people to work, schools and colleges, shops and leisure 
activities every day. We have over 26,000 UK employees and also make a 
significant contribution to the economy through the taxes we pay. We are 
proud to be one of only two FTSE 350 organisations to be certified with the 
Fair T ax Mark for responsible tax behaviour. Go-Ahead’s companies play a key 
role in the communities they serve and are vital to the future of UK public 
transport. Read about our relations with stakeholders on page 62 
LOOKING FORWARD
The year ahead will bring both challenge and opportunity. We have a strong 
management team in place and I am confident that together we will create 
further value by continuing to deliver against the Group’s strategic priorities.
As a Group, our focus remains on delivering the best possible experience  
for our customers and the coming year will see the introduction of new 
initiatives across our businesses to further enhance the customer experience.
The Group has a stable portfolio of businesses upon which to build and a clear 
strategy for the future. I look forward to the next stage of Go-Ahead’s journey.
Andrew Allner, 
Chairman
2 September 2015
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
This has been another significant year for Go-Ahead and the Group remains 
well placed to manage the challenges we face and embrace the opportunities 
that arise. During the year, our strategy, underpinned by our stable business 
model, has delivered increased shareholder value.
PERFORMANCE
The Group delivered good financial results in the year. Our bus division 
achieved its highest ever operating profit, despite a number of headwinds,  
and our rail division exceeded the Board’s initial expectations. 
The first half of the year saw the start of significant new rail contracts, including 
GTR, the UK’s largest franchise. This has faced operational issues and constraints 
associated with the Thameslink Programme from the outset. 
Demanding economic and operating conditions in some of our bus markets 
have resulted in a more testing trading environment and the Board now 
expects to achieve the £100m bus operating profit target in 2016/17, a year 
later than the initial target date. Read about the performance of our bus and rail  
divisions from pages 40 to 47 
DIVIDEND
The Group is in a good financial position with strong cash generation and 
a robust balance sheet, supporting our progressive dividend policy. We are 
committed to this policy, recognising the importance of the dividend to the 
investment decision of many of our shareholders. 
The Board was pleased to increase the full year dividend by 4.3% in the last 
financial year and, this year, proposes an increase of 6.5% to 90.0p per share 
(2014: 84.5p). A final dividend of 63.4p per share (2014: 59.0p) is proposed, 
payable on 13 November 2015 to shareholders registered at the close of 
business on 30 October 2015.
The Group’s dividend policy is to maintain dividend cover of approximately  
two times adjusted earnings, on a pre IAS19 (revised) basis. 
GOVERNANCE
Y our Board believes that the effective stewardship of the Group is  
enhanced by the wealth of experience and range of expertise of its  
members. T ogether, we are committed to building a stronger Group  
for the future and delivering long term sustainable value to our  
shareholders and improving services for customers.
Our long-held view is that open and transparent disclosure is of vital 
importance and we take our responsibility to present fair, balanced and 
understandable information very seriously. Once again, our commitment to 
best practice reporting was recognised at the 2014 Investor Relations Society 
Awards, reflecting the communication of our investment proposition and our 
use of digital reporting channels.
We continue to comply with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, as outlined in our corporate governance report on  
pages 52 to 85.
During the year, in accordance with best practice, we initiated a formal  
tender process for our external auditor. At our AGM in October 2015, the 
Board will propose that Deloitte LLP will replace Ernst & Y oung LLP as the 
Group’s statutory auditor. A process of transition from Ernst & Y oung LLP  
to Deloitte LLP has been agreed.
Following the year end, we consulted with major shareholders regarding 
changes to our executive remuneration policy and, in particular, our long term 
incentive arrangements. The proposed changes, which were developed to 
increase alignment between our strategy and the way we measure and  
reward performance, include the introduction of customer satisfaction as  
a long term performance measure. We know that providing high levels of 
customer service and a good customer experience is fundamental to our 
success as a leading transport operator. We believe these changes are a  
positive step in better connecting the remuneration of executive directors  
to customer experience. Read our remuneration report on pages 70 to 85 
In July 2015, it was announced that Keith Down, Group Finance Director, would 
be stepping down from the Board in late 2015 to take up a new external role. 
