 GoldBridges Global Resources Plc 
Annual Report 201 5
02
Chairman’s Statement
Dear shareholders,
During the year, we continued with the move 
from the open pit gold mine at Sekisovskoye to 
a solely underground operation, and this process 
is to be completed in the near term. Mid-year, 
we announced our decision to access our 
substantial gold reserves by developing a decline 
underground, rather than by sinking a shaft as 
described in the Venmyn Deloitte CPR that we 
released in November 2014. 
In that report, the overall capital expenditure 
(capex) outlay was estimated to be US$130m  
for the shaft based solution. Based on our current 
plans, the overall capex requirement to achieve 
100,000oz of production in three years is now only 
estimated to be US$42m, of which only US$20-
US$30m needs to be externally funded. US$10m  
of this total has already been successfully raised.
As previously announced, GoldBridges has 
already commenced development of the new 
transportation decline, improving access to its 
significant deeper gold reserves. Development  
of the decline is well underway. 
Construction of the portal in the open pit, which 
is in the process of being closed, has already 
commenced. As part of the preparation of the 
underground mine for more extensive mining in 
2016, the Company is in the process of sourcing 
the capital equipment required from various 
providers. It will include the purchase of larger 30 
tonne underground trucks, a load-haul-dumper 
and associated equipment. A drilling rig is already 
commissioned for underground works. On 
completion of the second decline development, 
the Company will again have the capacity to 
increase gold production from Sekisovskoye. This 
is expected to have a marked effect on production 
in H2 2016.
Unsurprisingly, our gold production fell from 
32,994oz in 2014 to15,534oz in 2015 as the open 
pit part of Sekisovskoye wound down and is 
expected to close.
In April 2015, we announced a successful capital 
raising of £3.4m (US$5.1m), through the placing 
of 123m new shares at a price of 2.8p/share, and 
we thank our existing and new shareholders 
for their support and belief in our business. The 
net proceeds of this placing have been used to 
fund working capital and the expansion of our 
underground mine.
In terms of the gold market, we have witnessed 
another challenging year as the gold price fell 
by around US$200/oz during the course of 2015, 
putting more pressure on higher cost producers. 
Currently the gold price is in the range of  
US$1,200-1,250oz.
Fortunately for Kazakh mine operators, our local 
currency, the Tenge, fell from around 182KZT to 
339KZT to the US dollar in 2015 and has further 
weakened to current levels of about 340KZT to 
the US dollar. This devaluation was due to the 
National Bank of Kazakhstan taking the decision 
to allow the currency to float. This was as a result 
of weakening currencies of some of Kazakhstan’s 
key trading partners, such as China and Russia, 
and the National Bank of Kazakhstan will now 
target inflation rate control rather than its currency 
valuation. Given that a significant portion of our 
operating costs are Tenge denominated, while the 
sales of gold are linked to US dollar prices, this has 
aided us in lowering costs in US dollar terms. 
With recent currency based developments in mind, 
we continue to believe that we are located in  
the right country in terms of our gold operations, 
and will continue to focus on Kazakhstan and 
other neighbouring Central Asia countries for our 
business development going forwards. Kazakhstan 
is immensely resource rich, has a motivated and 
able mining workforce, and is becoming even 
more cost effective. Changes to mining code are 
underway with the overarching aim to attract more 
direct foreign investment in the country. All in all, 
we continue to see a strong natural resources long 
term future in Kazakhstan, not withstanding near 
term difficulties faced by weaker commodity prices.
Finally, may I thank all our employees and our 
Management team for their hard work and also 
thank our shareholders for their continued support.
Kanat Assaubayev 
Chairman 
29 April 2016
“2015 has been a year of operational 
transition for GoldBridges, and one 
which has seen the challenges of  
the gold market persist.”
Equity raised
570m
Total of 570m of decline development  
to date, of second (additional) decline.
US$5.1m
During 2015 123m shares were issued  
raising a total of US$5.1m.
Underground development
