 6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“ Collaboration and partnership working  
are particular strengths for Go-Ahead.  
We have always worked closely with our  
key strategic partners and are continually 
striving to strengthen these relationships.” 
Record passenger numbers  
in our rail division
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
Profit growth  
in all divisons Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 7
expectations, as passenger revenue growth in our regional bus operations 
slowed, particularly in the second half, and Quality Incentive Contract (QIC) 
revenue declined in our London bus business due to increased congestion 
and roadworks. As a result, we now believe that we will achieve £100m of bus 
operating profit in 2016/17, one year later than originally expected.
Our rail division delivered stronger than expected profitability of £25.7m  
(2014: £19.7m) up 30.5% on the previous year, despite the operational 
challenges faced during the year. This strong performance was helped by 
contract management benefits towards the end of the Southern franchise. 
BUS
Our regional bus operations delivered operating profit of £46.7m  
(2014: £41.9m), up 11.5%, and our London business contributed £42.3m  
(2014: £41.6m), a rise of 1.7% in the year.
While the majority of our regional operations saw growth in passenger 
journeys, passenger growth in our regional bus business overall was down 1.4% 
as a result of continuing economic weakness in the north east and the impact 
of roadworks on our services in Oxford and Brighton. In particular, in Oxford, 
ongoing long delays due to congestion are deterring bus travel. 
In London, we maintained our market share and contract revenue increased in 
line with our expectations. However, high levels of roadworks and congestion 
associated with public realm improvements and the cycle super highway in 
the capital, impacted our QIC revenue significantly, dropping to £4.6m (2014: 
£9.1m) in the year, predominantly in the second half.
We are currently operating in an environment of low inflation, with low revenue 
growth and some upward pressure on the cost base. Some headwinds, such 
as the reduction in QIC revenue and specific issues in some of our regional 
areas, are impacting our business in the short term. Looking to the future, TfL 
has stated it expects bus reliability to reach record levels by 2017, which should 
result in improvements in our QIC revenue. Pressure on some of our regional 
bus services due to roadworks will ease when infrastructure programmes 
are completed, presenting us with the potential for revenue growth and an 
improved operating network for the future. In addition, Government forecasts 
estimate that inflation will rise at a time when some of our costs, such as  
fuel, will reduce. All of these factors give us confidence in the prospects for  
our bus division.
RAIL
Under its new direct award contract, Southeastern delivered a strong financial 
performance in the year to 27 June 2015, with an increase in revenue of 8.5% 
year on year. This strong performance more than offset the weakness in GTR, 
which reported a loss in the year due to additional costs incurred as it sought 
to rectify the issues at the beginning of the contract in September 2014. These 
issues were quickly identified by GTR’s management team and improvement 
plans were put in place. Investment has been made in temporary rolling stock 
and permanent drivers, with the largest ever driver training programme in the 
UK currently underway. 
Over the coming years we will be working hard to deliver a comprehensive 
programme of works, within a complex contractual arrangement, and a 
franchise which has inevitably changed from the original bid. GTR will employ 
the normal industry contract remedies to help mitigate these changes over time. 
We are heavily reliant on third parties, which have their own targets, budgets 
and deadlines to meet, but we strongly believe that working in partnership is 
vital to the successful delivery of the Thameslink Programme. 
Although this franchise will continue to be challenging and we expect margins 
to be impacted in the near term, our expectations for the life of the franchise 
remain unchanged. Read more about managing our risks on page 34 
London Midland’s performance continued to improve throughout the year, 
with the franchise making a modest contribution to profit. Southern performed 
in line with our financial expectations and, following the year end, it was 
successfully integrated into GTR. Integrating two large franchises is an enormous 
project and I would like to thank everyone involved for their commitment and 
professionalism through this process. 
STRONGER TOGETHER
This year, once again, the Group has achieved a considerable amount; making 
progress towards our longer term goals. We have faced challenges as well as 
successes. These experiences leave us better placed for the future.
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Through our regional bus operations, Go-Ahead has continued to keep people 
in cities and towns across the UK moving over the last three decades. During 
this time we have become an integral part of the local communities that we 
serve and have contributed to economic growth in these areas, working closely 
in partnership with local authorities. We always strive to improve services for 
our passengers and are proud of our high levels of customer satisfaction, which 
remain the best in the sector at 90%.
We believe in investing in our operations to provide high quality services. 
Over the last five years, we have invested over £180 million in our regional 
bus services, largely placed with UK-based manufacturing and construction 
businesses. This investment in our fleet and facilities helps us attract and 
retain customers by improving accessibility, comfort, convenience and the 
environmental sustainability of our services. Successive governments have 
recognised the contribution of the UK’s cost-effective and flexible regional  
bus industry, in which Go-Ahead’s businesses play a prominent role.
As the largest operator of buses in London, Go-Ahead plays an important 
role in delivering the capital’s integrated passenger transport network. Running 
some 2,500 buses every weekday and enabling almost half a million passenger 
journeys each year, we help to keep London moving.
The rail franchising system brings great value to the UK taxpayer. The industry 
contributes over £2bn through net premium payments, more than funding the 
annual maintenance requirements for the national network. In the year, our 
operations have continued to create value for the UK economy, with our rail 
operations directly contributing £255.9m, an increase of £191.9m on last year; 
10 times the profits generated by our rail division. Over the life of its six year 
franchise, Southern generated over £600m for the Government through its 
efficient running of the operation. 
In addition to the financial contribution we make, we are also committed to 
improving services for our passengers. Over the next three years 1,400 new 
train carriages will be introduced across our rail network, providing more 
comfortable, reliable and efficient services. We are collaborating with our 
industry partners to deliver the benefits associated with the £6.5bn Thameslink 
Programme. Notwithstanding a number of planned infrastructure projects 
being postponed, such as electrification on certain routes, the Government’s 
£38bn investment plan remains one of the most transforming and ambitious in 
the history of our country’s railway. Increased rail infrastructure investment is 
essential to improve services and, while an investment programme of this scale 
will inevitably result in disruption while infrastructure improvements are made, it 
will deliver considerable benefit in the long term. We understand the disruption 
this has on passengers and are working closely with Network Rail to minimise 
the impact of this.
Following the general election in May 2015, the new Government has proposed 
the introduction of a Bus Bill. At this stage, there is very little clarity on what 
this may contain, how it may be linked to the Devolution Bill, or the impact it 
may have on existing bus operators. Go-Ahead continually engages with the 
Department for Transport (DfT), MPs and other local stakeholders to help 
inform the debate. The concept of devolution is not unfamiliar to us as we 
have always operated within a devolved management structure. We believe 
partnership working brings about the best results for passengers and taxpayers 
and we continue to work closely with the local authorities in the areas where 
we operate.
OUR PERFORMANCE
I am pleased with the Group’s financial performance in the year. Overall, 
operating profit of £114.7m (2014: £103.2m) exceeded our initial expectations 
and rose 11.1% from the previous year.
We saw another year of record bus profits with operating profit for the division 
up 6.6% to £89.0m (2014: £83.5m). This was marginally behind the Board’s  8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
to meet our customers’ changing needs. Being a business with a devolved 
structure makes it natural for us to understand and support the principle of 
greater local accountability in political structures. 
Go-Ahead is an integral part of the UK public transport industry and we 
believe in offering wider transport solutions. We work closely with our industry 
partners and believe that together, we can build a better future for UK 
passenger transport. Read more about stakeholder relations on page 62 
We are committed to being a responsible business. Our continuous efforts 
to improve environmental performance throughout all our bus and rail 
operating companies have contributed to the achievement of our highest ever 
Carbon Disclosure Project score. This recognises the ongoing commitment 
to environmental responsibility and sustainability, which saw the Group being 
awarded the Carbon Trust Standard triple accreditation for our achievements in 
carbon, water and waste reduction.
As a socially responsible organisation, transparency and openness are important 
to us. A fair tax system is to the benefit of everyone and is crucial to support a 
vibrant economy. We are pleased to be one of only two FTSE 350 organisations 
to have been awarded the Fair T ax Mark in recognition of our responsible 
approach to UK corporation tax. 
All of our stakeholders are important to us. Demonstrating our commitment to 
our suppliers, we were pleased to be recognised by the Prompt Payment Code 
during the year. Read more on page 30 
OUTLOOK
The new financial year has begun with similar trends to the second half  
of 2014/15. 
We expect to deliver £100m of bus operating profit in 2016/2017, a year later 
than originally anticipated. We would expect some of the headwinds which  
we have experienced over the past year to reverse over time and this, along 
with reduced fuel costs, gives us continued confidence in the prospects for  
the bus division.
In our rail division, the Board’s expectations remain unchanged as a stronger 
performance in Southeastern continues to offset underperformance in GTR. 
Our focus will remain on delivering improvements for customers and minimising 
disruption caused by large scale infrastructure work. We continue discussions 
with the DfT regarding the extension of the London Midland franchise from 
March 2016 to October 2017 and hope to agree terms shortly. 
We look forward to hearing the outcome of the Northern and TransPennine 
Express rail franchise competitions, and submitting our bid for TfL’s London 
Overground contract in the autumn. Overseas, we await the outcome of a bid 
submitted in the Singapore bus market and our business development team 
continues to explore other opportunities for the Group, particularly in the 
German rail market. 
As a Group, our purpose is to serve our customers. We will continue to  
invest in our services to improve the experience of every customer that  
travels with us.
The Group remains in a good financial position, with strong cash generation and 
a robust balance sheet supporting our progressive dividend policy and allowing 
flexibility to pursue value-adding opportunities. This strong position underpins 
the Board’s decision to propose an increased final dividend for the year, in line 
with our dividend policy.
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
2 September 2015
EXPLORING OPPORTUNITIES
We have always considered growth prospects in a range of markets, looking 
for value adding opportunities that complement our portfolio, in line with our 
measured approach to risk. 
During the period, we submitted bids for the DfT’s Northern and TransPennine 
Express rail franchises and were pleased to be shortlisted for TfL’s London 
Overground contract. Over the next two years, there are a number of other 
UK rail franchise opportunities which we will also consider. 
We are bidding for contracts in the German regional rail market and have a 
small bid team based in Berlin. Germany has the largest rail market in Europe 
and it is amongst the most liberalised. The regional passenger rail market 
generates annual revenue of around €9.6bn and operates more than  
50bn passenger kilometres a year.
We look forward to submitting a second contract bid in the Singaporean bus 
market, which has many similar features to the London bus market, where 
we are the largest operator. At almost half the size of the London market, this 
presents an attractive opportunity for the Group. Annually, over one billion 
passenger journeys are made on Singapore’s bus network. We have gained 
valuable experience and knowledge of this market through our bidding activity 
to date.
As with all development activity, we undertake careful analysis to establish which 
opportunities best complement our portfolio, match our risk appetite and offer 
attractive returns for our shareholders. Read more about our approach to exploring 
new markets from page 14 
OUR PEOPLE
Our 26,000 people remain the backbone of our business and are vital to our 
success as a Group. Our employees reward us with hard work and dedication 
around the clock and in return we strive to make Go-Ahead a great place to 
work. We understand the importance of reward and recognition in all its forms 
and also believe in providing opportunities for the development of our people. 
As we reported last year, a lot of attention has been placed on succession 
planning and talent management across the Group. At all levels of the businesses 
we aim to attract, retain and develop high calibre individuals. We have built 
on the progress made and throughout the year have developed our talent 
management and graduate programmes and launched The Academy, which 
offers online training and learning materials to all our people.
Our local teams are well placed to understand their local markets and 
individually they bring great value to the Group, but we are stronger together 
and are consequently greater than the sum of our parts. Our operating 
companies are encouraged to share what works, coming together to build a 
stronger Group. Our local managing directors, who are accountable for and take 
ownership of their businesses, embrace this approach. Read more about our people 
from page 26 
OUR APPROACH
Our strategy is to increase the profitability of our existing business and to grow 
the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value. In order to deliver against 
our strategy, we ensure the sustainability of our business model for the long 
term. Corporate responsibility is at the heart of what we do and we avoid short 
term solutions in all areas of our business. We believe that this approach is the 
best way to achieve sustainable profitability. 
Our approach is underpinned by our strategic priorities of being a leading 
employer which provides high quality, locally-focused passenger transport 
services, running our companies in a responsible manner, and with strong 
financial discipline. 
We believe firmly that public transport is best delivered through working  
in partnership, with strong alliances between operators and local authorities. 
Collaboration and partnership working are particular strengths for Go-Ahead. 
We have always worked closely with our key strategic partners and are 
continually working to strengthen these relationships. Our devolved structure, 
with local management teams making local decisions, combined with the 
flexibility inherent in commercial operations, helps us to tailor our services   Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
www.go-ahead.com 9
YOUR EXPECTATIONS FOR TARGET 100 HAVE CHANGED. 
WHY ARE YOU NOT GOING TO HIT THE TARGET NEXT YEAR?
“ We announced our £100m operating profit target in October 2012 and set 
out a roadmap of how this would be achieved. Since then, our bus division 
has performed very well; growing revenue both in and outside London, 
reducing costs and overcoming a number of challenging headwinds. 2014/15 
has presented some particularly testing conditions in some of our operating 
areas with continuing weakness in the north east economy and roadworks 
in Oxford and Brighton significantly impacting our regional bus services.  
In London, roadworks and congestion have affected the punctuality of  
our services and consequently impacted the revenue we receive through 
Quality Incentive Contracts. Regardless of the targets we’ve set ourselves,  
we remain focused on delivering long term sustainable growth.” 
HOW ARE COMPANIES LIKE UBER GOING TO AFFECT  
YOUR BUSINESS?
“ We operate in competitive markets in the UK and are always mindful of 
existing competition and new entrants to these markets. Advancements in 
technology are changing the way people access information and services. 
Go-Ahead responds to these changing needs and innovates to constantly 
improve the customer experience, so for instance our bus apps are the best 
in class and enable real time journey planning, personalised information and 
social media traffic and travel updates.” 
HOW ARE THE CHANGES IN NATIONAL LIVING WAGE  
GOING TO AFFECT THE GROUP?
“ We believe in good reward and recognition for the work our people do.  
All of our companies already pay the vast majority of our employees the 
national living wage or higher. By the end of the year all employees, who  
are not apprentices or in training, will be on, or earning more than, the 
national living wage.”
YOU HAVE INCREASED THE DIVIDEND AGAIN, BUT WHAT 
ARE THE PLANS FOR THE FUTURE?
“ The Board was pleased to propose another increase to the full year dividend 
this year, recognising the importance of our dividend to the investment 
decision of many of our shareholders. This reflects our confidence in the 
Group’s performance and prospects for the future. We are a long term 
business committed to delivering sustainable returns to our shareholders. 
Our strong balance sheet leaves us well placed to explore which options  
will deliver the best value for investors.” 
YOU’RE BIDDING FOR WORK OVERSEAS. THIS HAS  
NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL FOR THE GROUP IN THE PAST . 
WHAT HAS CHANGED?
“ Exploring opportunities overseas isn’t a new stance for the Group. We 
have always sought growth and consider opportunities in all markets. We 
aren’t interested in ‘planting flags’ or buying market share; we are looking for 
real value adding opportunities that will deliver shareholder value. We are 
interested in markets that are similar to those in which we currently operate 
and to which we can bring value through our expertise. All opportunities 
pursued by the Group are with full backing from the Board, in line with  
our strategic objectives and appetite for risk.” 
   View the full year interview online, visit: www.go-ahead.com 
DAVID ADDRESSES SOME  
TOPICAL QUESTIONS FROM  
OUR SHAREHOLDERS
