 6 
BBA GROUP 
CHAIRMAN’S 
ANNUAL REPORT 
2004 STATEMENT 
The recovery experienced in the second half of 2003 continued 
into 2004 with demand strong in both our businesses. 
Clearly, we have been affected by the weaker US dollar on 
our translated US profits. Excluding that impact, our earnings 
grew at 5 per cent. Since 2001 our underlying profit before tax, 
in US dollar terms, have grown by 33 per cent, demonstrating 
the good inherent growth characteristics of our businesses. 
Financial Results 
In 2004, reported turnover for the Group on continuing 
operations was at £1.37 billion, £52 million higher than in 
2003, after an adverse currency translation impact of £96 
million. On a constant currency basis, turnover increased 
by 12 per cent. 
Underlying pre-tax profits at £128 million were £2 million 
less than last year after a negative currency impact of £8 
million and higher raw material input prices of £8 million. 
Statutory profit before tax was £73 million 
(2003: £55 million). 
Adjusted earnings per share (before goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items) were 19.9 pence 
(2003: 19.7 pence). 
Acquisitions 
During the year, the Group continued to enhance its 
geographic presence and market position with nine strategic 
acquisitions for a total investment of £98 million covering 
each of our business sectors. As most of these occurred in 
the second half of the year, the benefits of their contribution 
to the Group will be seen primarily in 2005. 
Dividends 
Following the interim dividend of 3.35 pence paid on 
5 November 2004, the Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 7.95 pence (2003: 7.6 pence) payable on 20 May 2005 to 
shareholders on the register at 15 April 2005. This will make 
total dividends for 2004 of 11.3 pence (2003: 10.8 pence). 
Board and People 
Irv Yoskowitz stepped down in March after nine years as a 
non-executive director and there were no other changes at 
Board level during 2004. The Group has appointed Michael 
Harper to the Board as a non-executive director with effect 
from 23 February 2005. He is currently Chief Executive of 
Kidde plc. On the same date we also announced that Ross 
McMillan was stepping down from the Board after nearly 
four years with the Group. We thank him for his contribution 
to the business over this time. 
As always our success as a Group is dependent on the 
efforts and quality of all our people. The Board would like 
to thank everyone who works for the Group for their valued 
contribution to our progress. 
Corporate Governance 
BBA has always supported the key principles underlying good 
corporate governance. I am pleased to be able to say that the 
Company is substantially compliant with the new Combined 
Code which applied to BBA for the first time during the year . 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
We believe that a positive attitude to social responsibility 
is essential and during the year we undertook a number 
of initiatives to broaden the reach of corporate social 
responsibility within BBA. This included the issue of an 
enhanced policy on CSR and Business Ethics together with 
awareness communications and training. During the year 
we published on our website our third Annual CSR report 
and we are pleased that overall the Group continues to 
report improved performance. 
Outlook 
Both of our businesses grew sales appreciably in 2004, albeit 
that earnings were held back by currency translation and 
raw material price increases. Nevertheless, we have continued 
to invest in new businesses, strategic acquisitions and 
productivity initiatives. 
Looking to the future, we are clearly dependent, to some 
extent, on currencies and material price inputs, but our 
underlying businesses continue to grow and strengthen. 
We expect this trend to continue as we go forward.  7 
Roberto Quarta Chairman  8 
BBA GROUP	
CHIEF 
ANNUAL REPORT 
2004	 EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW 
AS A GROUP WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO REMAIN 
FOCUSED. 2004 HAS PROVIDED A STABLE 
ENVIRONMENT FOR BBA TO BUILD FURTHER. 
HOW? 
1	
In Aviation we further increased our market 
share through strategic acquisitions in 
Europe, new business wins and investment. 
2	
Despite high raw material costs, we have 
achieved good growth in Materials Technology 
through further acquisitions and product 
launches that have led to major contract wins. 
As we look forward our strategy continues to be 
focused on growth primarily in Aviation Services 
where we see good opportunities to increase 
revenues.  9 
Roy McGlone Group Chief Executive 
