 29
Overview Conditions over the ﬁnancial year have generally been favourable
and we have increased our gross property asset base to £2.5bn from £2.0bn
in 2006. The increase has come from both revaluation uplifts (our UK portfolio
has shown an uplift of 9.8%) and from acquisitions. In total we spent £614m
on property assets in the year, including the major corporate and portfolio
acquisitions of CHARM, The Capital Appreciation Trust and The Tilt Estate. 
The year-end value of our retirement solutions business has grown to £542m
and we are pleased with our progress in Germany where we now own over
4,500 units worth £242m. Capital recycling through the successful launch of
our G:res1 fund and prudent debt raising in the early part of the year have
meant that this growth has been achieved at sensible loan to value ratios
(53% at 30 September 2007) whilst maintaining a valuable liquidity position –
our headroom on our lending facilities at the year end amounted to £226m.
Results In the light of evolving practice of accounts presentation under IFRS,
we have conducted a review of the classiﬁcation of our property assets. This
has involved reclassifying a small proportion of those assets (4%) from trading
stock to investment property or vice versa. The main impact has been that
the revaluation surplus of £23.5m taken through the 2006 income statement
on the transfer of assets to the Jersey Property Unit Trust (‘JPUT’) (that 
forms part of G:res1) has instead been taken through retained earnings at 
the beginning of that year net of tax of £7.0m. There is no change to market
value net asset value measures or to business cash ﬂows. Our 2006 ﬁgures
have been restated accordingly and further details are given in the ﬁnancial
review section of this report.
Proﬁt before tax has increased by 62% to £77.5m from £47.7m (restated),
the principal driver of this being an improved contribution from our associates
and joint ventures (up to £40.6m from £0.4m). 
Operating proﬁt (before fair value movements and goodwill impairment) 
has increased to £89.0m from £81.5m, largely due to improvements in trading
proﬁts from our core business. 
Gross net asset value per share (‘Gross NAV’) has increased by 22.3% 
to 828p from 677p and there are similar improvements in our other NAV
measures: Triple net asset value (‘NNNAV’) up 25.8% to 613p from 487p 
and base case Grainger NAV up 23.0% to 732p from 595p. Details of the
calculations of these are given in the ﬁnancial review. 
Return on shareholders’ equity has increased to 27.1% from 26.5%.
chairman’s statement In my ﬁrst year as chairman of Grainger, 
I am pleased to report another year of strong progress and
signiﬁcant achievement in our three emerging business lines that
complement our core residential regulated tenancy business.
STRATEGY
ROBIN BROADHURST
Chairman 30 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007
We are again increasing our dividend by 10% (our 13th consecutive year of
increased dividends) with the result that the board are recommending a ﬁnal
dividend of 4.12p per share. Together with the interim dividend of 2.06p per
share paid on 16 July 2007, this will produce a total dividend for the year of
6.18p per share (2006: 5.62p). At this level the dividend is covered 7.7 times
(2006: 4.6 times). If approved the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 18 February
2008, to shareholders on the register on 18 January 2008.
Strategy The group’s goal is to maintain and consolidate its position as the
UK’s leading quoted residential property company. It is proud of its core
property management services model which is at the heart of the business
and seeks to deliver a personal and caring service to its many tenants.
Expanding and continuing the successful delivery of this service model will
allow the group to expand and diversify its offerings, particularly in the ﬁelds
of fund management and development, but operating within the residential
arena utilising the experience gained over its long history.
We believe this goal will continue to deliver consistent long-term growth 
in results and in dividends to our shareholders. We are developing a mix of
residential businesses away from our previous heavy reliance on regulated
tenancies. Following the Housing Act 1988, the number of these tenancies will
reduce over the next 10 years as this type of structure gradually disappears.
Historically the business has been largely centred on the ownership and
trading of these large-scale residential portfolios of regulated tenancies.
Returns have been generated through rental income and, more signiﬁcantly,
from capturing reversionary surpluses on sales when the properties fall
vacant. These returns have been enhanced by a cautious approach to
acquisition, the application of rigorous management, growth in house prices
and by appropriate levels of ﬁnancial gearing. In recent years we have used
our cash generation and property management platform in the residential
sector to enable us to capture a wider range of assets.
This expansion and diversiﬁcation has enabled us to become market leaders
in three residential sectors; the ownership of properties subject to regulated
tenancies, providers of home reversions and residential fund management. 
This latter activity, in particular, produces an income stream not reliant on 
the direct ownership of property and at low incremental cost. We have 
also widened our risk and return exposure by increasing our involvement 
in residential development and by entering the German residential market.
Board changes At the beginning of May, we welcomed Henry Pitman as a
non-executive director. He was previously chief executive of Tribal Group Plc
and his experience, which includes both property and government-related
housing business, will be of great assistance to the board.
chairman’s statement continued
STRATEGY
Our goal to become a leading
European quoted residential
property company, we believe,
will deliver consistent long-
term growth in results and in
dividends to our shareholders.
total dividend 
for the year
6.18p
per share
(2006: 5.62p) 31
My personal thanks go to Robert Dickinson from whom I took over as
chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in February. 
His long service and contribution to the growth of the group has been
previously recorded, but his help and guidance in the handover of the
chairmanship was hugely appreciated.
Outlook Whilst residential house prices continued to rise through this
ﬁnancial year, the listed property sector (including real estate investment
trusts) fell by more than 20%, largely fuelled by the sentiment that the rapid
rises of recent years are unsustainable. This has now proved to be the case
and there is little doubt that the next year will be a challenging one both for
the sector and for Grainger. Notwithstanding this, recent evidence suggests
that properties in our portfolio are continuing to sell at or slightly above
current valuation levels. Grainger’s average house price in its core portfolio 
is £205,000 and the portfolio is geographically diverse. In light of this and 
our limited exposure to new build ﬂats in city centres (the area we expect 
to be the most difﬁcult in the coming months), we believe that we are
relatively well protected from the slowdown in the current market. 
Going forward, we see good opportunities in continuing to apply our 
own variety and blend of skills to different residential asset classes. Where
appropriate, we will introduce third-party capital to enhance our returns 
and reduce our direct balance sheet exposure. This may be in the form 
of joint ventures (for example, along the lines of Grainger GenInvest 
and Curzon Park) or in co-investing funds (G:res1). 
This will not be the ﬁrst period of more challenging market conditions 
that the company has weathered in its long history. Our experience,
combined with the more diversiﬁed business model we now have in place,
gives us conﬁdence in our positioning and prospects. We plan to continue 
our long-standing prudent approach towards acquisitions and liquidity and
believe that our spread of activities will give us resilience and increase our
long-term growth prospects to create shareholder value.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone at Grainger for 
the welcome and help that they have given me in my ﬁrst nine months as
chairman. Their commitment and enthusiasm will serve the company and 
its shareholders well in the future.
ROBIN BROADHURST Chairman 18 December 2007
STRATEGY
We see good opportunities 
in continuing to apply our 
own variety and blend of skills
to different residential asset
classes. Widening our spread 
of activities will give us both
resilience as well as increase 
our long-term growth
prospects.
