 Good Energy continues 
to work with like-minded 
partners, including the Eden 
Project in Cornwall. 13
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Financial Statements
Chief Executive’s 
Review
2015 was a year of political change and uncertainty 
for the renewable energy industry. Throughout 
this period, Good Energy demonstrated that as a 
business it is both flexible and responsive to change, 
while it continues to grow. It has delivered a year end 
performance in line with expectations.
In the autumn of 2015, Good Energy announced a 
renewed five-year strategy for profitable growth, 
setting out its future customer growth targets. 
Its goal is to have 900,000 domestic customers 
(household equivalents) by 2020. 
This growth path will enable the company to 
further pursue its mission to tackle climate change, 
capitalising on the strengths of its vertically 
integrated supply and asset business model, and 
using its approach to innovation to gain market 
share, whilst growing profitably.
Supply
Good Energy’s  electricity, gas and Feed-in Tariff 
(FIT) customer numbers continued to show strong 
growth, with 219,400 in total by 31 December 2015 
(2014: 152,500). The company’s domestic supply 
base received a major boost as a result of winning 
the Big Deal clean energy collective switch in the 
autumn, and by 31 December 2015, total electricity 
customers numbers had risen by 32% to 68,000 
(2014: 51,500).
Gas customer numbers rose by 55% to 38,800 
(2014: 25,000) while there was a 48% rise in FIT 
customer numbers to 112,600 (2014: 76,000). 
Business sales revenue grew 30% during the year 
(2014: 22%), reflecting a number of factors including 
a year on year improved competitive pricing position, 
rising brand awareness through avenues such as 
social media and increased interest in corporate 
social responsibility. The number of sites supplied 
almost doubled, while the amount of power 
delivered to business customers grew by more  
than 52%.
These figures reflect Good Energy’s record of 
consistent year on year growth in customer numbers 
and reflect the ongoing investment in customer 
service, staff, and back office systems. Third-party 
endorsements from Which? and MoneySavingExpert 
have also helped drive customer growth and 
high levels of customer retention, along with 
endorsements from organisations such as Ethical 
Company Organisation, the Good Shopping Guide 
and the Social Stock Exchange.
Generation & development
During the year, the company also continued to 
invest in its pipeline of generation sites. Four solar 
farms were built and commissioned during the 
12-month period, bringing the total number of  
owned and operated solar sites to six, with a 
combined installed capacity of 30MW. 
Construction of a seventh 5MW solar farm  
began during the last quarter of 2015 and the  
site is now ‘live’. 
Strategic Report  6 – 17 Chief Executive’s Review
The solar panels installed at Good Energy’s Oaklands solar farm in Dorset are 
designed to follow the contours of the land. 14
Planning consent for a further three sites was 
received early in 2016. These sites will be developed 
to balance appropriate returns on the company’s 
assets with an objective of securing access to  
long term renewable electricity to support  
customer growth.
Output from its two wind farms at Delabole 
(Cornwall) and Hampole (Yorkshire) during the full 
year totalled 53.3GWh, up 38% (2014: 38.7GWh). 
Work continued in 2015 on two new wind farm 
projects - one in Scotland and one in Cornwall - 
which together could power tens of thousands  
of homes.  
Good Energy continues to review its ongoing strategy 
on asset development in light of the Government’s 
review of renewable energy policy.  As part of 
this, the company has taken the decision to write 
off £575k of early-stage development costs on a 
number of small sites which are now unable to 
progress, reduce the size of the development team, 
redeploying staff into other business roles where 
appropriate and reviewing the on-going focus. 
As a result, the team will now concentrate on Good 
Energy’s existing portfolio, and consider what 
development plans the company will explore in 2017 
and beyond.  
The company invested in a new finance system 
during the year to facilitate improved internal 
reporting and as an ongoing driver to reduce costs 
as the organisation continues to grow.  It also rolled 
out a new on-line portal, which more than 25% of 
the customer base has already signed up to. A new 
meter reading ‘app’ was also unveiled, which  
is supporting the company to produce regular  
accurate bills.  
The company has grown considerably since its 
creation and 2015 was a year of particularly strong 
expansion. It now employs more than 300 staff at its 
Chippenham, Wiltshire offices and this figure is set to 
rise in 2016.
The average Good Energy 
electricity customer saved 1.12 
tonnes of carbon in 2015.
A project to refresh and further embed the 
company’s core values across the organisation was 
rolled out during the year. This has provided the 
framework to help all employees maximise their 
potential and successfully deliver the company’s 
strategy and objectives.  The work on this has been 
reflected in relatively high employee engagement 
scores, which compare well with other high 
performing organisations.  
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Good Energy has sustainability at the heart of 
its strategy, and as a progressive business, it 
understands that its role in society is far more than 
just delivering profit. It is committed to using its 
business as a force for good.
The company continued to make a positive impact 
on addressing climate change during the year. It 
added four new solar farms to its portfolio by the 
year end, increasing the amount of renewable 
electricity generation. 
An increasing number of customers also opted to 
buy the company’s 100% renewable electricity, 
enabling each individual to reduce their carbon 
footprint. The average Good Energy electricity 
customer saved 1.12 tonnes of carbon last year by 
being 100% renewable - the equivalent of not driving 
5,700 miles. As generation and usage of renewable 
electricity increases, this in turn reduces the reliance 
on fossil fuels and energy imports.
The company will shortly be releasing its first 
Sustainability Report, which addresses and refreshes 
the company’s approach to CSR and associated 
reporting. Good Energy is a founder member of the 
Social Stock Exchange and at the end of the year, 
was dual listed on the social impact segment of the 
ISDX Growth Market.
The company has continued to build upon its work 
with a range of like-minded partners during the year, 
including the Soil Association, Friends of the Earth, 
10:10 Solar Schools and the Eden Project. In the 
fourth quarter, the company also further cemented 
its relationship with the National Trust, and will now 
be the charity’s energy partner for an additional  
two years.
10:10 Solar School winners receive their prize cheque to help boost 
their solar panel fund- raising campaign. 15
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Financial Statements
The company remains committed to supporting 
and working with local communities so that they 
can benefit from its wind and solar development 
activities, and has set up community funds alongside 
each of the new solar farms it commissioned during 
the year. The local tariffs for customers living close 
to the company’s two wind farms remain in place 
and in August, Delabole residents enjoyed a windfall 
payment to reflect the high performance of the site’s 
four turbines.
Good Energy believes that innovation and 
technology will play a vital role in helping the UK 
move towards a future powered exclusively by 
renewables. Work on battery storage and peer-to-
peer trading which it undertook during 2015 and will 
continue to explore, will help the company develop 
new 100% renewable solutions. These will play an 
important role in helping the drive to reduce carbon 
emissions in the future.
Looking ahead
Good Energy believes there is real potential for it to 
take full advantage of the long-term opportunity 
as the UK begins to embrace a new decentralised, 
low carbon energy market.  Since 2010, more than 
one million homes are now producing power in their 
own homes from sustainable sources of energy, 
and in 2015, in quarter two alone, renewable energy 
provided over 25% of the UK’s electricity. Good 
Energy is at the heart of this change, and has the 
right long-term proposition, the right experience  
and a proven strategic approach to deliver growth 
going forward.
The business sector will be a focus for Good Energy 
in 2016 and beyond.  For example, the commitments 
of the RE100, a collaboration of the world’s most 
influential companies which have pledged to work 
towards 100% renewable power, play well to Good 
Energy’s strengths. The company is in an excellent 
position to support these organisations in their drive 
both to reduce carbon emissions and demonstrate 
their CSR and carbon credentials to customers. 
The domestic customer proposition will continue 
to develop and build on the progress made in 2015, 
such as the on-line portal and the Good Energy ‘app’. 
The company’s long- term vision is for the domestic 
customer to be the central hub for all sustainable 
energy initiatives in the home, and to help consumers 
take advantage of a smart-enabled future. It will 
seek to engage with its customers and make it 
possible for them to manage and understand their 
energy use more effectively than ever before.
The company’s approach to its development of 
assets will be adapted in the short term to reflect the 
impact of government policy. It remains optimistic 
about the available returns from operational assets 
and its ability to secure the long term supply of 
renewable electricity required to match growing 
customer demand. 
Good Energy’s customer numbers have risen an 
average 36% year on year for the last three years, 
demonstrating a clear, consistent record of growth. 
During 2015, it has continued to build on these strong 
foundations already laid and I am confident Good 
Energy will be able to both continue to maximise 
the opportunities for growth and respond to 
changing energy policy throughout the coming  
year and beyond.
Strategic Report  6 – 17 Chief Executive’s Review
Juliet Davenport
Chief Executive
11 April 2016
The company’s second local tariff applies to 
residents living near Hampole wind farm.
