 04
Grainger Trust plc 
Chief executive’s statement
Rupert Dickinson 
Chief executive
The major event of the year has been the
acquisition of Bromley. This confirms our
position as the largest quoted residential
investor in the UK.
Average sale value
Sales of Grainger’s properties on
vacant possession have achieved
an average amount of £110,000,
an increase of 26% in the year
2002-03.
+
26%
>
Chief executive’s statement 05
Grainger Trust plc 
Chief executive’s statement
We started the year with four key objectives:
– to maximise the benefits from Bromley, our Joint Venture company 
– to continue to focus on our core tenanted residential business
and, in particular, to develop our life tenancy activities
– to progress our development and trading business, realising profits
where appropriate and creating effective relationships with partners
– to develop our asset and property management capabilities so
that we can offer a high quality, national service 
We are delighted to have made significant progress in all of these
areas, whilst delivering record profitability and net asset value.
Our operating divisions have performed well this year with both
Tenanted Residential and Development and Trading delivering
improved contributions. 
Once again trading profits on residential sales have been very
strong. The housing market has remained robust throughout the
year, particularly for our core properties. Typically these are slightly
below the average UK house price value and may require some
refurbishment by the purchaser. In London, where we have
approximately 43% of our tenanted residential portfolio by value, 
we noticed some weakening of the market in the early part of the
year, particularly at the higher end, but it has strengthened recently.
In the regions we have seen consistent growth. Overall Grainger’s
properties have achieved an average vacant possession sale value
of £110,000, an increase of 26% from 2002. 
We have continued to strengthen our position in the life tenancy
market. We see this sector as being an increasingly important
component of the Grainger business in the future, providing
excellent reversionary opportunities and good synergies with the
existing core regulated activities. Given the appetite shown by home
owners to realise some or all of the equity in their properties, we
believe this market has potential for significant growth.
The Development and Trading Division continues to make a
significant contribution, with good profits being made on sales of
residential land at Kennel Farm and Townsend House in Victoria.
Since the year end we have sold a further 10.9 acres for £12m at
Kennel Farm completing the major residential land sales on that site.
Future revenue is expected to arise from overage payments, the
development of the B1 site and from the sale of some minor
residential areas. Over the last five years, total revenues from Kennel
Farm have amounted to £62m. 
Our key strengths lie in our knowledge and experience of all sectors
of the residential market, including mixed-use developments, and
our ability to trade in those sectors. We will therefore concentrate on
residential or mixed-use opportunities or on projects which have a
residential bias. We are moving away from pure commercial
property investment, although we shall continue to be involved in
commercial property where we perceive residential opportunities. 
Disposals from the commercial portfolio will reduce gearing and free
up resources for our core businesses. Since the year end we have
exchanged contracts on the sale of over £20m of commercial
property. Over the next year we will continue to purchase regulated
assets and to maximise the returns that we can obtain by selling on
vacancy. We will grow our life tenancy portfolio and look for structures
enabling us to do this without putting undue strain on gearing. 
The major event of the year, however, has been the acquisition of
Bromley. This confirms our position as the largest quoted residential
investor in the UK and enables a move from a Joint Venture
business plan focused on cash generation to a platform from which
we can take a long-term view.
Following the acquisition we are restructuring the property
management division which will strengthen our ability to provide high
quality asset and property management services nationally. We
believe that this ability will be of paramount importance in raising
equity funding should a REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust) structure
for tax transparent investment vehicles be introduced in the UK.
Grainger has a valuable pool of talented and committed staff – with
the enlarged asset base now available to them we are confident of
our ability to continue to deliver excellent returns for our
shareholders.
Rupert Dickinson
Chief executive
16 January 2004
Activity profile
Major projects within our Development and Trading
Division included the profitable sales of Townsend
House in Victoria and further residential land sales
at Kennel Farm, near Basingstoke.
An effective management structure
The mix of skills within our
management teams enables
decisions to be acted upon quickly
and efficiently throughout the
business. Pictured is our London
based management team.
