 4. BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005
Chairman’s
Statement
Financial Results
2005 continued to see strong revenue growth of 10 per cent for
the Group to £1.5 billion. This is reflected in the performance of
both our divisions. Underlying operating profits were up 2 per
cent to £130 million with 9 per cent growth in aviation offset
partially by a continued increase in raw material prices in
Fiberweb, our materials technology division. After restructuring
costs and non-recurring items, operating profit from continuing
operations for the year was £81 million. After preference share
conversion, and higher interest rates, particularly in the USA,
mitigated by a lower tax rate, we are able to report adjusted
earnings per share from continuing operations of 17.9 pence
[2004: 18.3 pence].
Acquisitions
During the year the Group continued its strategy to enhance
market position and global presence in Aviation Services and 
we invested £28 million in a number of bolt-on acquisitions and
£73 million in capital expenditure. Strategic disposals resulted 
in a cash inflow of £47 million.
Dividends 
Following the interim dividend of 3.5 pence, paid on 4 November
2005, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.3 pence
[2004: 7.95 pence] payable on 22 May 2006 to shareholders on
the register at 18 April 2006. This will result in total dividends
for 2005 of 11.8 pence [2004: 11.3 pence].
Board and People
We announced on 28 February 2006 that Roy McGlone had
stepped down as Group CEO by mutual agreement. Michael
Harper replaces him as interim CEO until a permanent
successor is appointed. Michael joined the Board as a non-
executive director in February 2005 and is the former Chief
Executive of Kidde Group plc.
We thank Roy for his contribution over 10 years, first as Finance
Director and then, from 2001, as Chief Executive. He has led the
Company successfully through some difficult times. However,
BBA is undergoing significant change and both the Board and
Roy believe the Company needs a different kind of leadership as
it separates Fiberweb and concentrates on Aviation Services. 
At senior management level, Daniel Dayan joined us as CEO of
BBA Fiberweb Division in June last year.
We extend our thanks to our 14,100 employees who make up 
the success of BBA. We are appreciative of their hard work 
and efforts.
Corporate Social Responsibility
BBA continues to take its role as a responsible corporate citizen
seriously. During 2005, our CSR Committee embarked on a
number of initiatives, including the assembly of CSR metrics for
our businesses, that will be used as guidance by our companies
on important issues such as workplace diversity and equal
employment opportunities. In addition, a detailed review of our
Group Legal Policies Manual was carried out during the year.
The policies contained in this Manual set the benchmark for
responsible and mandatory business conduct within the Group.
We are also proud of the efforts and support our companies and
its people gave to their communities that were affected by the
devastating hurricanes in 2005. Actions included matching
charitable donations and the contribution of products and
services in support of relief efforts in the Gulf Coast region.
In 2005, BBA repeated its participation in the Business in the
Community (BitC) Corporate Responsibility Index. As we begin to
reap the benefits of our various CSR initiatives and programmes,
we hope to see improved placement. Our fourth Annual CSR
report was published during the year and can be found on our
website at www.bbagroup.com.
Outlook
During the year we made an important announcement about the
future direction of the Group. As a Board we recognise that
having built two highly successful, but individual businesses, the
time has come when we believe shareholders’ best interests will
be served by focusing the future of each of our divisions
independently. We look forward to the next year with continued
confidence.
Roberto Quarta Chairman 
