 Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 06
CEO’s statement
Dear shareholder,
This is my first report to you as Chief Executive and I am pleased to 
report a positive year of progress aligned with the strategic plan set 
out by the Board. We delivered 212% CTC software revenue growth 
driven by high quality new customer wins as well as extensions in 
the existing CTC subscriber base and implementation successes. 
We enhanced our portfolio of offerings with innovative new products, 
including our cloud platform Clareti-as-a-Service (“CaaS”), and we 
further strengthened the global organisation.
Objectives and strategy
Our objective is to be recognised as a leading financial technology 
provider focused on enterprise data integrity and transaction control 
solutions that deliver sustained profitable growth for the Group and build 
shareholder value. 
To achieve our long-term objective, we are following a strategic plan 
focused originally on CTC and now, more broadly , on the Clareti portfolio. 
The Group regards the plan to streamline and strengthen our legacy 
business (the general strategic plan referred to in previous Annual Financial 
Reports) as largely complete with the remaining EDT, VME and other 
legacy lower margin revenues now being managed efficiently in light 
of the inevitable run off in the medium to long term.
The strategy has further matured as the opportunity to build on CTC’s 
success has unfolded positively. We plan to:
 • focus the significant majority of our product investment and sales 
efforts on CTC, our flagship product; 
 • establish CTC as the enterprise data integrity platform “category 
leader” in a world awash with real-time streaming data; 
 • leverage the Clareti platform and CaaS to bring new “Control” 
applications to market;
 • build a high margin, recurring revenue stream based on Clareti 
licence sales, subscriptions and cloud services; and
 • create a sustainable global business to enable Clareti-led growth 
and exceptional rates of customer loyalty.
Operational performance
It is pleasing to report high quality CTC wins in all our target 
geographic markets of UK and Europe, Asia Pacific and the US. 
New customer wins were represented across our targeted financial 
services industry sub-segments including insurance, banking and 
capital markets, payments, clearing and settlements. Use cases were 
also in line with our plan, namely financial and risk control, regulatory 
compliance and transition management. A full review of the year’s 
operational performance is included in the Operational Review.
People
Since joining Gresham in June 2015, I have been very impressed with 
the openness, the depth of knowledge and the expertise that exists 
across the business, and it is a pleasure to be working in such a positive 
and constructive environment.
We recognise that people are key to our ability to deliver on our 
strategic plans. We need the right level of expertise across all functions 
of the business in order to grow the business successfully, innovate 
and expand our offerings, and delight our customers on a global basis. 
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive Officer
Summary
 • CTC software revenue up 212% driven by 
high quality customer wins in all our target 
geographic markets.
 • CTC offering enhanced with the launch 
of new products and Clareti-as-a-Service 
cloud platform.
 • Solution focus will continue to be risk, 
regulatory and financial control, as well 
as transition management and white label.
 • New sales will target capital markets 
institutions and global transaction banks. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 07
This philosophy is reflected in our business model, and I have reported 
in the Operational Review on some of the steps we have implemented 
in 2015 to help our people achieve their potential at Gresham.
Outlook and opportunity
We have entered 2016 with a strong CTC annuity stream and related 
professional services backlog. In the first quarter of 2016 so far, we have 
signed a significant professional services extension with the Tier 1 bank 
we won in the last quarter of 2015, and we have also achieved a new CTC 
client win in the US, which represents our second asset management 
client and our first CaaS client in North America.
Our solution focus will continue to be risk, regulatory and financial 
control as well as transition management and white label. Our 2016 
new sales focus will be weighted towards two primary initiatives:
Firstly, we will target capital markets clients where risk and regulatory 
driven data integrity challenges are a good fit for CTC. Risk IT spending 
is rising as financial institutions invest to comply with post-global crisis 
regulations such as Basel III and associated principles such as the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) 239 Principles for Effective 
Risk Data Aggregation & Reporting. According to research published 
by Chartis in January 2016, Risk Data Aggregation and Reporting alone 
is a market valued at $4.67bn in new risk IT spend. The Group is targeting 
Tier 1 bank investment programmes for improved enterprise-wide data 
collection, quality and risk data governance procedures. Tier 1s are 
expected to spend the most on new initiatives in 2016 ($1.93bn); 
Tier 2s $1bn; and Tier 3s $1.7bn.
Secondly, we are targeting global transaction banks with our 
best-in-class Accounts Receivable Management solution to sell to 
their corporates. At a time when traditional transaction services are 
facing severe competition and a rapidly changing payment landscape, 
banks need to differentiate to win, retain and grow corporate accounts. 
Our white label platform enables banks to deliver enhanced cash 
management and analytic based products extremely rapidly and at 
a far lower cost than building in house. The solution is proven to help 
banks win new clients, and increase deposits driving net interest income.
We expect to grow recurring revenue with existing direct CTC customers 
and through our white label channel partners who are gaining momentum 
with their own client wins. We are confident that CaaS, our cloud platform, 
and managed services will feature strongly in our new business wins 
and further enhance recurring revenue streams. As expected, the Group’s 
legacy licence base is gradually declining and we have factored this 
into our financial model.
We are confident that our strategy to achieve sustainable long-term 
profitable growth and shareholder value based on CTC, and now the 
Clareti portfolio, is on track. There is a positive confidence and focused 
sense of purpose throughout the Gresham team and we are all excited 
about the potential to create a global leader in the enterprise data 
integrity market.
Thank you for your ongoing support.
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive
7 March 2016
“ In a world awash with  
real-time streaming data, we 
want to be the first company 
clients turn to when they 
need to be in control.”
