 16 factsfigures
Over the last five years our gross assets have increased from £0.4bn to £1.6bn
Total market value of property assets
£1,631m
**
Total operating contribution*
£101m
Return on shareholders investment
25.6%
*profit on ordinary activities before interest and 
taxation and excluding group administrative expenses
**including share of joint ventures (£34m)
graingerplc tenantedresidential developmentandtrading
Market value of property assets by division
£124m
Proportion of group operating contribution
13%
Operating contribution by division
£12.8m
Performance criteria
Bulk of income comes from trading activities and
realisation of reversionary surpluses, so alternatives 
to yield based valuation measures also presented.
Focus is therefore on net asset value, profit before 
tax and earnings per share.
Use of NAV, diluted NAV and Grainger NAV which 
takes account of long-term reversionary surplus 
in our core portfolios.
At individual project level, performance criteria 
such as cash generation, internal rate of return,
profitability and strategic positioning used.
Trading
Regulated (Investment value: £984m) key features:
– Tenant has security of tenure
– Rents set by rent officer and increases capped 
at retail price index +5% over two years
– Purchased at discount to vacant possession 
value and sold on vacancy
– Approximately 9% of the portfolio becomes 
vacant every year
– No new regulated tenancies being created
Characteristics: Low rental yield, high margin on sales.
Land and regeneration
Key features:
– Translates green and brownfield sites into residential 
or mixed use developments
– Complex long-term business that can be highly profitable
– Involves negotiations with planners, local communities
and councils
Major sites:
Kennel Farm, Basingstoke; West Waterlooville,
Hampshire; Widdrington/Hadston, Northumberland.
Group operations
are defined by 
the following:
Within this division,
contributions come
from two areas 
of operation:
Within this division,
contributions come
from three areas 
of operation:
Market value of property assets by division
£1,507m
**
Proportion of group operating contribution
87%
Operating contribution by division
£88.2m
Number of properties by division
12,382
**including share of joint ventures (£34m) 17 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005
Risk review
Major risk relates to state of housing market, linked to interest 
rates and general economic environment. Risk minimised by:
– Portfolio is geographically widespread, reduces cluster risk
– Portfolio spread across property types and values, reducing 
exposure to highly fluctuating top-end properties
– Relatively low average value where demand is consistent and strong
– Regulated properties are un-modernised on vacancy so demand 
tends to be high
Long-term view taken and financial stability enables short-term 
price fluctuations to be withstood.
Business review
All activities characterised by cash generation, high trading 
margins and willingness to take long-term view.
Regulated tenancy market diminishing, but we maintain 
position by active purchasing.
Review new and expanding business opportunities – 
home reversions, European investment, development 
and trading, asset and property management.
At plc level, key criteria is total shareholder return.
Home reversions (Investment 
value: £196m) key features:
– Tenant has security of tenure
– No rental income
– Whole or partial ownership purchased 
at discount to vacant possession
– Property sold on vacancy
– No maintenance obligation
Characteristics: No rental yield, 
high sales margin.
Assured, vacant and others 
(Investment value: £327m) 
key features:
– Market-rented tenancies (£188m)
– Vacants generally for sale (£59m)
– Other, including ground rents, 
serviced apartments and share 
of joint ventures (£80m)
Characteristics: Market yield, 
some margin on sale.
Rental and management
Net rental income Key features:
– Net rental income derived from regulated 
and assured tenancies after maintenance 
and management expenditure
Asset and management fees Key features:
– Fee based activities remunerated by asset 
and property management fees
Characteristics: Management skills adapted 
to provide additional fee income with no 
capital investment.
Residential development
Key features:
– Uses group’s asset base, expertise or equity type funding
– Often in partnerships with housing associations, local 
developers, occupiers and councils
Major sites:
South London Hospital, Clapham; Macaulay Road, Clapham; 
Hornsey Road/Barnsbury, Islington; Smith Docks, North Shields.
Grainger Homes
Key features:
– Small scale niche house-building mostly in North East 
of England
– Produces consistent levels of cash and trading margins
Major sites:
The Kylins, Morpeth; Grangewood, Widdrington.
