 06
Grainger Trust plc
Annual report and accounts 2004Grainger Trust 
1
2
4
5 6
7
8
9
3
10
Group management board
Headed by Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham. 
The group’s expert and unrivalled team allows the business
to develop and grow with assurance and confidence. 
Pictured left to right:
1. Debra Yudolph
Director of Residential Management (South)
2. Mark Robson
Director of Residential Management (North)
3. Rupert Dickinson
Chief Executive
4. Andrew Cunningham
Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director
5. Brian Crumbley
Director of Sales and Acquisitions (North)
6. Peter Schwerdt
Director of Sales and Acquisitions (South)
7. James Fielder
Director of Urban Development
8. Marie Glanville
Group Company Secretary
Director of Group Financial Operations
9. Andy James
Director of Land and Regeneration
10. Tony Dodds
Director of Grainger Homes
Chief Executive’s 
Statement
Exciting times:
This has been a particularly
exciting and fulfilling year. 
Not only have we produced 
record profits and an excellent
growth in the value of our asset
base but we have made
substantial progress in achieving
the goals we set at the beginning
of the year. 
These included the full and
successful incorporation of 
our Bromley joint venture; the
rationalisation and refocusing 
of our development and trading
division, with the disposal of the
bulk of our commercial property
investment portfolio and the
£900m refinancing of our loan
portfolio, which gives us both
greater flexibility and overall 
lower interest rates.
We have also achieved substantial progress in
developing two key areas, which we believe will
become significant growth areas for the group – 
life tenancies and investment in mainland Europe. 
In both these areas we hope to announce further
developments, either through direct acquisition or
the creation of important joint venture partnership
agreements during the course of the current year.
Turning to the group’s operations in more detail, 
I can report that the strong housing market we
witnessed for most of the year under review was
reflected in our tenanted residential division, where
sales totalled almost £135m. In addition, we saw 
a valuation increase on the residential properties 
in our trading portfolio of 12.4% to September. 
This figure does mask regional variations of less
than 5% in central London and greater than 
30% in the North West of England. In our view
these increases underline the benefit of our
geographically widespread portfolio as well as 
the underlying strength of the housing market 
over the period. Some 42% by value of Grainger
residential assets are outside London and the
South East – the two regions that saw relatively
sluggish growth through the year to 30 September
2004. The year end average vacant possession
value of our residential properties rose to £164,000
from £144,000 last year. The reversionary surplus
in our portfolio (the difference between vacant
possession value and investment value) now
stands at £536m, or £21.61 per share.
It is also worth noting that many of the sales 
that we achieved were of unmodernised or 
below UK average value properties. There 
2003: £144,000
2004: £164,000
Average sale value of Grainger’s
properties on vacant possession
2003-2004 Annual report and accounts 2004
Grainger Trust plc
07
Our portfolio is ‘pregnant’ with
reversionary value – part of the value
is realised each year as properties 
are vacated and sold.
A long-term business
Reversionary surplus 
(the difference between vacant possession
value and investment value)
2003-2004
2003: £484m
2004: £536m
is strong and consistent demand for such
properties from both first time buyers as well 
as the owner/developer market.
On the other side of the equation, we are
extremely pleased with the level and quality of
residential purchases we have made during the
year. In fact we acquired, in total, slightly more
residential units than we sold. After a slow start 
we invested approximately £118m to purchase
1,042 units, compared with the 1,031 units 
sold, which included 486 regulated tenancies 
(at a cost of £68m) and a further 374 life 
tenancies (for £23m).
At the start of the year one of the principal 
goals we set ourselves was to rationalise 
our development and trading activities through
the orderly disposal of our commercial property
investments in order to focus effort and resource
on the residential sector. As a result we sold
£25m of commercial property investments,
showing a £3.5m surplus over September 2003
values, leaving the group with only one major
development asset – Landmark Place, Slough.
The 69,000 sq. ft. office element has been 
hard hit by current market conditions and 
we have taken a £1m write-down against 
its carrying value. 
Following the disposal of virtually all our commercial
property investments we have now reorganised the
development and trading division into three distinct
core activities: land and regeneration; residential
development; and house building. This, we believe,
now presents a coherent and structured approach. Grainger Trust plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
08
Life tenancy – taking advantage 
of our expertise
We are excited by the opportunities presented by
this sector. Diminishing pension returns and the
opportunity to crystallise some of the increase in
value of homes has increased the profile of, and
demand for, this product.
Trust Grainger
The year under review has seen the papers full 
of stories of uncertainty in the housing market.
It’s reassuring to know that in the same period
our share price has significantly increased, we
have posted a record profit and seen an increase
of 25% in our net asset value per share.
Entering new markets
With our wide skill base and expert knowledge 
we have created a unique platform from which to
enter into new markets such as life tenancy and
European investment.
In land and regeneration we sold the final major
development plots, comprising 12.4 acres, at
Kennel Farm for a total of £14.2m, generating
operating profits of £10.7m. Future activity at
Kennel Farm will focus on completion of the local
centre, the five acres allocated for business use 
and the sale of minor plots on a piecemeal basis.
The main contribution in residential development
has come from the development with Network
Housing Association which incorporated 78 flats
above a large Sainsbury’s supermarket in Wilton
Road, Pimlico. This scheme has generated income
to us of almost £8m through the sale of 70 flats
during the year; of the remaining eight flats, five
have completed since the year end. 
House building has made very satisfactory
progress during the year as Grainger Homes
completed the sale of 132 units for £14.7m,
producing a trading profit of more than £2m.
Operationally, therefore, this has been a successful
and eventful year. Externally this success has 
been recognised by our winning the EPRA Best
Performance Small/Mid Cap Award for the 
year ended 2003. EPRA is the European Public
Real Estate Association and has been set up to
promote, develop and represent the European
public real estate sector with a particular focus on
establishing best practice standards in accounting,
reporting and corporate governance. The award 
is granted to the company showing the greatest
level of total shareholder return provided certain
standards of disclosure and corporate governance
were met – our return in the year was over 65%. 
And what of the future at Grainger Trust? As ever
our focus will remain on the regulated tenancy 
market. This business is high margin and 
cash generative and we will endeavour to 
make the most of any opportunities that arise.
However, Grainger is a long-term business and 
we are busy preparing ourselves for the time 
when the supply of regulated tenancies begins 
to diminish.
Fundamental to this is the life tenancy market. 
We are excited by the opportunities presented by
this sector. Diminishing pension returns, and the
opportunity to crystallise some value from the
increase in value of homes has increased the 
profile of and demand for this product. Regulation
of the mortgage market and the future regulation 
of equity release reversion products will, we
believe, introduce more discipline into the sector
and reward suppliers with good reputations and 
a successful history.
We are delighted to announce the appointment 
of Peter Couch to head up our life tenancy
activities. Peter is vastly experienced in the equity
release and insurance business sectors having
worked as national sales manager of financial
planning services for NPI Limited and managing
director of AMP Retirement Services before setting
up his own equity release consultancy business.
We are confident that Peter will help Grainger take
full advantage of the opportunities this sector
presents to us.
Concern has been expressed that equity release
may be tax inefficient for home-owners as a result
of the introduction of the pre-owned asset tax 
in April 2005. We are delighted to report that 
the Inland Revenue confirmed in an answer to
Parliament in November that such assets would
not be affected by the new tax. Annual report and accounts 2004
Grainger Trust plc
09
We have received a number of approaches 
from financial services companies who want to
create a reversionary equity release product and
leverage our skills. They are offering us access to
their distribution capability and we are exploring
options in this regard. 
We also feel that we can operate successfully 
in mainland Europe. We are concentrating our
efforts in two areas. The first is investment in 
long-term reversionary residential portfolios in 
the more mature economies of Western Europe
where we believe there is an opportunity to
replicate the return characteristics of our main 
UK business. We are also looking at more
opportunistic investments in residential
development land in Central Europe. In both 
cases we are currently intending to invest
alongside local operating partners.
Supporting these activities will be our development
and trading division, now rationalised and with a
clear strategy. The rationalisation of the commercial
property portfolio and the last of the bulk sales at
Kennel Farm indicate that this year’s level of
profitability will not be repeated in 2005, but we are
confident that we will be able to position this
division to produce high quality returns across a
broad spectrum of residential development activity. 
Rupert Dickinson
Chief Executive
21 December 2004
While our properties range from houses
to penthouses, 66% of our entire portfolio
have a vacant possession value of
between £100,000 and £250,000.
From houses to penthouses
