 18
chairman’ sstatement
I am pleased to report another year of significant progress
at Grainger Trust. Whilst we have not benefited from the
exceptional market growth that has characterised more
recent results, we have concentrated on consolidating our
position as the UK’s leading quoted residential investor and
trader and have worked to meet the strategic objectives 
we set ourselves 12 months ago.
Our focus remains on Grainger’s core business – the
acquisition, management and sale on vacancy, of
residential regulated tenancies. This business provides 
us with a unique set of skills, asset base, cash flow and
market knowledge that allows us to examine residential-
based opportunities that have similar management
challenges or return characteristics.
During the year under review we have launched our 
equity release joint venture programme with Norwich
Union, expanded into Europe for the first time with two
joint venture developments, acquired a substantial land
bank in Hampshire, and commenced work on several
mixed-use urban developments. 
In addition, we concluded a £61.3m agreed takeover of the
central London-based market-rented residential investment
company City North Group plc and a £70m joint venture
acquisition of a tenanted residential portfolio with Genesis
Housing Group, one of the country’s leading Registered Social
Landlords. We also disposed of our last remaining major
commercial property investments through an asset swap.
Since the year end we have exchanged on a €71.5m
residential investment portfolio in Germany comprising
more than 1,400 units and generating annual income of
€4.5m. This acquisition will mark our first key investment
purchase within continental Europe and we continue to
look for further similar acquisitions where we can bring our
deep and extensive knowledge of the sector to generate
superior returns for shareholders.
Shareholders will also be aware that we entered into
preliminary discussions with Parkdean Holidays to acquire
its entire issued share capital. Although these discussions
were terminated, they demonstrate our willingness to
examine a wide range of less obvious opportunities where
we believe we can bring our residential and development
skills to deliver long-term reversionary returns.
Results
Sales of tenanted residential property and net rental
income from our core portfolio continue to be the group’s
main profit drivers. Operating contributions from our core
business, increased by 7.6% over the year to £88.2m from
£81.9m. This included a contribution of £2.4m from City
North. At the pre-tax level, results for the 12 months to 
30 September 2005 were impacted by both a more normal
contribution from our development and trading division of
£12.8m compared with £25.3m we recorded last year and
higher interest charges of £49.5m against a pre-exceptional
item charge in 2004 of £40.1m, resulting from our
successful acquisition programme over the period.
Robert Dickinson 
Chairman 19
Accordingly, pre-exceptional profits before tax were lower,
but in line with expectations at £42.1m compared with
£59.6m for the same period a year ago. I am also pleased
to report that Grainger’s net asset value continues to rise
despite the general perception of the residential market. 
As shareholders appreciate, we consider the group’s net
asset position in three ways: net asset value per share
(‘NAV’), diluted net asset value per share (‘NNNAV’), which
takes into account contingent tax and the market value of
long-term debt and hedging, and the Grainger NAV, which
adjusts for the reversionary surplus within our portfolio.
Our NAV has grown 2.0% to 558p from 547p, NNNAV 
has risen 3.5% to 385p from 372p, and the Grainger 
NAV is up 2.5% to 492p from 480p.
In line with the guidelines we established last year the
Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.41p per share
which, together with the interim payment of 1.7p per
share, will make a total for the year of 5.11p per share, 
an increase of 10%. If approved, the final dividend will be
paid on 8 March 2006 to the shareholders on the register
on 17 February 2006.
Strategy 
Long-term exposure to the residential investment market
has delivered annual compound growth rates (as measured
by the Halifax House Price Index) of 7%, 10.5% and 14.2%
over the last 20, 10 and 5 years. There has been a more
recent slow down in growth – house prices rose by 3% over
the 12 months to the end of September 2005 – and the
outlook over the coming 12 months is somewhat uncertain.
Despite contradictory views of the market our own
experience is that sales in the first two months of the
current financial year have been marginally ahead of the
end of September 2005 vacant possession values. We
believe that over the course of the current financial year
overall house price inflation within our portfolio will 
be muted. 
However our business model is based on long-term
investment returns rather than short term gains. Our interests
are focused on market sectors where reversionary potential
is not entirely dependant on short term market growth, but
also on gains secured through tenure or use changes and
by gaining planning consent. These opportunities exist both
in the UK and within continental Europe.
At the same time we will continue to generate income
through our asset and property management skills, particularly
when these can be used to help third party investors maximise
their returns from the residential market. Also we aim to
take full advantage of any market opportunities that may
arise where our strong financial base, long-term outlook
and experience will enable us to unlock value.
We are pleased that the Chancellor has committed to
introducing UK REITs (Real Estate Investment Trusts) in 
the 2006 Financial Bill. We now hope that the eventual
legislation is not overly restrictive and that it will encourage
real new investment to the Residential Sector.
Board
During the course of the year under review Bill Tudor John,
former senior partner at Allen & Overy and currently a
managing director of Lehman Brothers, joined the board
and has taken over the chairmanship of the Remuneration
Committee from Robert Hiscox.
People
As Grainger expands, it is essential we have the right level
of skills and expertise to manage this growth. Although
much of this comes from our core of committed and
dedicated professional senior executives, in the year we
have been able to augment this with a number of external
high level appointments. It is pleasing that Grainger is able
to attract such highly qualified executives.
Outlook
The way forward is clear. We will focus on our core regulated
business but, recognising that this stock is finite, we will
continue to develop into areas that capitalise on our existing
skills and economic base and which offer exposure to the
residential market. The most significant of these will be
equity release, investment in Europe, residential development
and residential fund and property management.
Bearing these objectives in mind, together with our solid
financial platform and our asset and skills base, we believe
we have the framework for continued long-term success.
Robert Dickinson Chairman
20 December 2005
Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 20
focusingengagingprogressing
Chief executive’s statement
Last year we set out our objectives for Grainger Trust in our
key business areas and we have made significant progress 
in all of these.
Tenanted Residential This is our core business, providing us with a long-term exposure 
to the residential market and good levels of profit and cash generation. It is based on 
our large and diverse portfolio – at 30 September 2005 its market value amounted to 
£1.5bn an increase of 10.8% in the year – and our experience and expertise at managing
and trading property and our solid financial underpinning. 
Despite sluggish market conditions throughout the last year this division has continued 
to trade well, generating sales of £133m, only marginally down on 2004’s figure of
£135m. It has been pleasing that we have achieved these levels without significantly
reducing prices on sale. Margins on normal sales in 2005 (i.e when a property is sold 
on vacancy) were 48.5%; the equivalent figure in 2004 was 48.6%.
In valuation terms, our portfolio has risen in value by 2.6% and the average vacant
possession value of our properties at 30 September 2005 stood at £173,000.The
reversionary surplus in our portfolio (including our share of joint ventures) is £560m 
(2004: £536m) or 433p per share. 
Rupert Dickinson 
Chief executive
00 01 02 03 04 05
GRAINGER TRUST
FTSE REAL ESTATE
FTSE 250 INDEX
Share price performance
2000 – 2005 21
This figure represents the difference between what we expect to sell our properties on
vacancy for and what we value them at in our market value balance sheet. The difference
between the vacant possession value of our residential portfolio and its original cost 
is £967m (2004: £928m).
Just as important as annual trading performance and
valuation uplifts is our ability to replenish stock levels and 
to grow businesses offering long-term growth potential. 
In our regulated business we have acquired 480 properties for £51m. We have also
purchased a highly reversionary portfolio of 455 London flats for £70m from the Church
Commissioners in a joint venture with the Genesis Housing Group. We are delighted to
have been successful in acquiring this portfolio as well as to be working with Genesis 
and their property management subsidiary Pathmeads. We see an interesting future for
Grainger in working more closely with the Housing Association Sector. 
As has been announced previously we entered into an agreement with Norwich Union
enabling our home reversion products to be sold through their own in-house advisors and
IFA distribution network. Sales through this channel have been slower than anticipated
when we announced the initiative in March. This reflects general market conditions in 
the equity release market and a slower than expected start up, although recent figures 
for our originations and the home reversion sector in general are more encouraging. 
We are building our home reversion portfolio using three routes (Bridgewater, Norwich
Union and portfolio acquisitions) and we anticipate being able to increase the total
portfolio by at least £50m in the year ahead. As part of this strategy, we have recently
launched our own Bridgewater Flexible Reversion Plan, and this has been well received 
by the market. 
We are pleased with the progress we have made in 
our market-rented and asset and property management
businesses. We believe that the key is to ally a good
portfolio with excellent property and asset management
skills and appropriate financing. 
2003 £144,000
2004 £164,000
2005 £173,000
average sale value of
Grainger’s properties 
on vacant possession
2003 £484m
2004 £536m
2005 £560m
reversionary surplus
(the difference between
vacant possession value
and investment value)
Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 22 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005
The acquisition of City North Group plc combined with our existing holdings has provided
us with a critical mass of market-rented properties – close to £200m as at 30 September
2005. We are now well advanced in preparing a fund structure to attract third party equity
into this portfolio. This will enable us to benefit from the rent and reversionary potential in
market-rented housing directly as one of the fund participants and indirectly through the
receipt of management and performance fees. 
Our management expertise is illustrated by the fact that we currently manage our own
portfolio of 12,382 properties and a further 1,185 properties for other residential investors.
These include Schroders Residential Property Unit Trust (ResPUT) where we have increased
our stake and are due to take on further responsibilities including strategy and acquisitions
in addition to our asset and property management roles. 
Grainger Europe Our objective in mainland Europe has been to replicate certain key
aspects of the Grainger UK business. Consequently we have been reviewing opportunities
in reversionary residential portfolios and development. 
Shortly after the year end we announced our first portfolio
acquisition – a total of 1,400 properties in the Metro Ruhr 
of Germany for a consideration of €71.5m (£48.9m). This
transaction is due to complete by the end of 2005. 
The combination of relatively high rental yields, low borrowing costs and potential for
significant gain over time, if the properties are sold to the owner occupier sector, make this
an attractive area for us. We are optimistic that this first acquisition will provide a good
platform for us to build on. 
During the year, we also announced our participation in two development opportunities.
Firstly, an 81.6% stake in a mixed residential/retail scheme in Zizkov in Prague, representing
an investment of €6.7m (£4.6m) and which we hope to take through the planning process
over the next 18 months. Secondly a €2.6m (£1.8m) investment representing a 45.7%
stake in an 800 unit proposed residential development in Tallinn, Estonia. 
Development and Trading Over the last few years we have moved away from pure
commercial investment and this process was substantially completed in the year. 
We are now focussed on three areas: residential development, primarily mixed use and
residential schemes in London and the South East, urban and rural regeneration schemes,
Chief executive’s statement continued
the acquisition of City
North gives us close to
£200m
market-rented properties
we currently manage 
our own portfolio of 
12,382
properties
and a further 
1, 185
properties
for other residential 
investors
