 Grainger Trust plc
Annual report and accounts 2004
04
Chairman’s
Statement
Property expertise: 
This has been a landmark year for
Grainger Trust. We have achieved
record levels of profits, asset 
and share price growth as well 
as making significant progress in 
our key strategic objectives. The
year under review has also been
important as it represents the first
12 month period in which our
Bromley joint venture has been
wholly owned and incorporated
into the year’s results.
Robert Dickinson
Chairman
+14%
Portfolio market value
The value of our core tenanted residential 
portfolio has increased by 14% to £1.3bn.
+30%
Grainger net asset value
Net asset value per share of £24.00, 
up from last years figure of £18.40.
+23%
Profit before tax and exceptional interest
A 23% increase over the previous year.
Share price performance
1999–2004
Performance of our share price
compared to FTSE Real Estate and
FTSE 250 companies.
Grainger Trust FTSE Real Estate FTSE 250 Index
We have continued to focus on our core 
tenanted residential business and we have
increased the market value of this portfolio by 
14% to £1.3 billion. Our total gross assets at
market value now stand at £1.5 billion. We have
maintained our leading position as the largest
quoted investor in the long-term residential market
by purchasing 486 regulated and 374 life tenancy
units in the year. We have invested considerable
management time and energy in positioning 
our life tenancy activities and believe that we 
are now well placed to take advantage of this
exciting business opportunity. Our rationalisation 
of the commercial investment portfolio has been
completed at a significant profit and we now have
greater clarity and focus in our development and
trading activities. 
To help lay the foundations for the group’s 
future growth, we completed a highly successful
refinancing of our debt portfolio with a more
flexible funding platform that will enable us to
take full advantage of opportunities as they
become apparent. 
Results
The strong residential market, as well as a good
performance from Grainger development and
trading division, have been the major drivers of 
the year’s record results. I am pleased to report
that Grainger has produced profits before tax 
and exceptional interest of £59.6m for the year 
to 30 September 2004, a 23% increase over 
the previous year’s £48.5m. As a result earnings 
per share before exceptional interest have 
grown 25% to 149.7p. 
Net assets
Net assets per share have grown by 25% to
£27.34 from £21.94. Fully diluted net asset 
value, taking into account contingent tax and the
market value of our long-term debt and hedging,
has increased by 34% to £18.62 from £13.91.
Grainger net asset value, which incorporates an
estimate of the reversionary surplus within our core
portfolio, is £24.00 per share, a 30% increase from
last year’s figure of £18.40.
Dividends
For the last five years we have adopted a
consistent dividend growth policy of 15% per
annum. Given the group’s outstanding record 
of profit increases however, this has resulted in 
a low dividend yield and high dividend cover in 
comparison to our peers. Your board is therefore
recommending a step up increase in the year 
end dividend to 19.20p per share, to be paid 
on 4 March 2005 to shareholders on the register 
at close of business on 11 February 2005. 
This will produce a full year figure of 23.24p per
share, an increase of 42% over last year. It is our
intention to continue with a progressive dividend
policy, albeit at a more moderate target growth of
10% per annum. We will also take the opportunity
to restructure the phasing of our dividend
payments and it is our intention that the interim
dividend (to be paid in July of each year) will
comprise approximately one third of the total, 
the balance being paid at the time of the final 
in March of each year. 
Share structure 
Five years ago our share price was approximately
£4.00. At 30 September 2004 this had grown 
to £18.35. At this level, we consider it appropriate
to introduce a share split on a five for one basis,
replacing each 25p ordinary share with five 5p
ordinary shares. We believe that this will improve
liquidity in our shares and will help dampen share
price volatility. Appropriate resolutions to approve
this, together with others to modernise our 
Articles of Association, will be proposed at 
an extraordinary general meeting to be held
immediately after our annual general meeting. 
Board
Robin Herbert and Nichola Pease will be retiring
from the board at the annual general meeting.
Robin has been a board member since February
1994 and has served as chairman of the audit
committee and latterly as senior non-executive
director, a role which will be assumed by Robin
Broadhurst. Nichola leaves the board after four
years’ service and her position as chairman of the
remuneration committee will be taken by Robert
Hiscox. We thank both Robin and Nichola for the
very significant contribution they have made to the
group. During a period of unprecedented growth
and activity, they have been a source of wise
counsel and encouragement. 
As announced in November 2004 Sean Slade has
resigned as an executive director. Sean joined the
group when we owned a significant commercial
investment portfolio, however the redefinition of 
the group’s focus into residential activities and the
consequent disposal of the group’s commercial
portfolio has meant that the challenges and 
’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 Annual report and accounts 2004
Grainger Trust plc
05
Re-think what you know about
Grainger Trust plc. Reassess its
markets and its business – today’s
and tomorrow’s.
Re-think, read on...
opportunities for Sean were no longer available. 
We are grateful to Sean for the professional and
efficient way in which the investment portfolio
rationalisation was conducted and wish him every
success for the future. 
People
Grainger has a core of committed staff, expert 
in buying, selling, managing and developing
residential property. As the group activities 
have expanded we have complemented this
core group with several senior appointments 
to ensure that we are well placed to take
advantage of future opportunities. I would like 
to thank our enthusiastic and hard working staff
for the continuing contribution they have made
to another successful year. 
Strategy and outlook
We are delighted with the performance in the year
but accept that our market place may present 
a more difficult trading environment in the short-
term. Indeed since the year end we have seen a
slowing in demand for our vacant properties. We
are still exceeding, on average, September 2004
vacant possession values by circa 3% on recent
sales, but the time taken to complete these sales
has extended. However, we believe that our core
business activities are resilient and can produce
good levels of shareholder return even when
economic conditions are less favourable. 
It is clear that the property sector and our
particular niche in it will face many new challenges
and opportunities over the coming year. Whilst 
our business is robust we are aware that the
overall perception of our potential success is
driven by general and media comments on the
state of the housing market. Our view is that 
the overall trend of house prices is flattening 
and that growth over the next year may well 
be limited. Indeed we believe that the market 
in London and the South East has already
experienced a significant correction. The housing
market is primarily affected by expectations of
interest rate levels and many commentators are
now indicating that rates may stabilise. If this
happens then we would expect to see forecasts
of healthier house price movements.
However, we believe that the case for residential
property as a long-term investment remains
strong. Increases in the number of households
from a combination of smaller family units, greater
levels of self occupancy and increasing life
expectancy are sustaining demand. This at a time
when new house build levels are at their lowest 
for several decades. Home ownership in the UK
has long been seen as an investment, as well 
as a method of occupation – and its attraction 
as an alternative to equities or traditional 
forms of pension provision has become more
pronounced over recent years. Interest rates
remain at a comparatively low level and this 
helps to support affordability.
The property sector faces a future in which real
estate investment trusts or ‘REIT’s’ may play a
significant role, although the recent pre-budget
report indicated that any legislation will not be
introduced until July 2006 at the earliest. Whilst 
the trading nature of Grainger business does 
not immediately lend itself to a REIT type structure,
we will ensure that we are at the forefront of any
initiative that will facilitate investment in the private
rented sector.
We will continue to focus on our core regulated
business which is high margin and cash
generative. We are optimistic about the growth
potential of the life tenancy sector and are pushing
hard for this to become a significant contributor to
group profit. We are excited by opportunities that
are being presented to us on mainland Europe 
and are confident that we can successfully 
transfer our skills and expertise to these emerging
markets. Our development and trading activities
are well defined and our vision is to build a series
of coherent, related activities showing our ability 
to operate in all sectors of the residential market,
while producing consistent levels of profitability 
and growth. 
The future
We have in place the three key resources for 
us to continue as a consistently successful 
long-term business; a superb asset base, a 
sound funding platform and an expert and
unrivalled team. We look forward to the future 
with confidence and enthusiasm.
Robert Dickinson
Chairman
21 December 2004
