 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 12
Strategic report
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
GROUP REVENUE WAS:
£1,315.3m
ADJUSTED EARNINGS 
PER SHARE GREW:
9.2%
2
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS WAS UP:
3.8%
1
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
AND EXCEPTIONALS WAS:
£168.5m
Performance summary
It has been another record year for Greene King with Retail revenue 
exceeding £1bn for the first time and underlying growth in Pub Partners 
and Brewing & Brands. We have made good financial and strategic 
progress and completed a successful five-year strategic plan, 
culminating in the disposal of over 300 non-core sites in the year 
and, after the year end, the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company. 
We grew total revenue by 3.0%
1
, while the retained business, excluding 
non-core pub disposals, achieved 5.0% growth. Operating profit was 
1.7% lower than last year although it was up 3.8% on a retained business 
basis. The operating margin on a retained business basis fell 20bps 
to 19.4%, following a significant recovery in the second half. 
Adjusted earnings per share were up 1.3% and up 9.2% on a retained 
business basis. As a result of this continued strong underlying growth, 
the board has recommended an increase of 4.8% in the dividend 
per share. 
Although underlying retail growth was lower than anticipated at 
the start of the year, we increased our ROCE to 9.3%, ahead of WACC.
We also made significant progress in key operational metrics, including 
a 12.3%pt increase in our Retail Net Promoter Scores (NPS) and a 13.4% 
reduction in Retail team turnover. 
Market overview
While economic indicators generally continued to improve throughout 
the year, the underlying trends within the sector slowed down as 
customers diverted discretionary spending towards ‘bigger ticket 
items’. However, we are confident that our continued investment 
in the business will feed through into stronger underlying growth 
going forward, supported by ongoing improvements in consumer 
confidence and disposable income. 
With 62%
3
 of UK leisure spending, the eating and drinking out 
markets dominate the UK leisure market. Within the eating out market, 
27% of spend comes from pubs and bars with spend in branded pubs 
and bars forecasted to be 14% in 2015, up from 11% in 2010. We believe 
pubs and bars, and particularly branded pubs and bars, will continue 
to play a significant role within the UK leisure market. 
Now that the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Bill has 
become law, we will continue to work closely with the Government 
to make sure that important secondary legislation is balanced, does 
not add unnecessary ‘red tape’ and encourages continued investment 
in the tenanted and leased sector.
Our Scottish business suffered in the year from the introduction of 
a lower drink-driving limit just before Christmas. We have mitigated 
the impact as much as we can through a number of initiatives. 
However, the lower limit has changed consumer behaviour towards 
drinking out in Scotland and we expect to see continued LFL sales 
weakness, at least in the first full year following its introduction.
1.  Throughout this review, 2013/14 figures are rebased to 52 weeks 
for comparative purposes.
2. Retained business, see page 26.
3. Greene King Leisure Spend Tracker, April 2015. 
ANOTHER 
RECORD YEAR
“As well as increasing revenue we also made good financial and 
strategic progress as we came to the end of our five-year strategic plan.” Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 13
Corporate governance Strategic report Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategy update
Our five-year strategic plan to improve growth and returns to 
our shareholders has been successful, helping to drive significant 
change in the business and better positioning Greene King for 
sustainable long-term growth. During the last five years, we have:
1.  Expanded our Retail estate by 19.4% and improved average 
EBITDA per pub by 24%. Since 2010, we have added 172 sites to 
our retail estate, including 32 sites this year, ending the year on 
1,060 pubs, restaurants and hotels. The acquisitions of Cloverleaf, 
RealPubs and Capital Pubs accelerated our progress in Retail 
and, overall, average EBITDA per pub improved 24% over the 
five years. The return on the cash we invested during the period 
in new sites was 15.1%, ahead of WACC, and generating 
shareholder value. 
2.  Reduced our Pub Partners estate by 46% and improved 
average EBITDA per pub by 33%. Over the five years, we sold or 
transferred 735 tenanted and leased sites including 310 this year, 
taking us significantly ahead of our initial target of 1,200 sites. 
Since 2010, average EBITDA per pub has risen by 33% to £69.9k. 
3.  Continued our cask ale leadership position through 
consistent and industry-leading brand investment. Since 
2010, OBV grew 19.7% against an ale market that declined 12.6%. 
This outperformance was driven by investment and innovation in 
our industry-leading brand portfolio. Over the five years, we increased 
our volume share of the UK ale market by 1.2%pts to 10.0%
1
. 
Having successfully delivered on our five-year plan, our immediate 
focus looking forward is to manage the twin challenges of delivering 
sustainable performance improvements in Greene King Retail, 
while successfully integrating Spirit Pub Company to create a clear 
industry leader. 
We have worked hard this year to drive improvements in value, 
service and quality across Retail, but we are clear that more needs 
to be done if we are to deliver positively memorable experiences 
to more savvy and connected customers, in an increasingly 
competitive marketplace.
Linked to the core business challenge is the opportunity that the 
acquisition of Spirit brings. We completed the acquisition on 23 June, 
following the CMA’s formal acceptance of our undertaking to sell 
16 pubs, thereby creating the UK’s leading managed pub company. 
With a combined estate of 3,100 pubs, restaurants and hotels, 
including over 1,000 in London and the South-east, we are well 
positioned to deliver long-term growth. 
We expect to generate at least £30m of cost synergies and we 
anticipate there being further opportunities for value creation. 
The greater the benefits we realise, the more we will seek to invest 
in key areas of the combined business such as people, IT and marketing, 
thereby helping to further strengthen the core Retail business. 
Current trading and outlook
We have seen a steady start to the new financial year. In the first 
eight weeks, Retail LFL sales were up 0.6%, LFL net income in Pub 
Partners was up 1.2% and OBV in Brewing & Brands was down 3.7%, 
against tough comparatives and a year-on-year delay in the timing 
of export sales. The new drink-driving regulations in Scotland reduced 
Retail LFLs by 50bps during the period. For the same eight-week 
period, managed LFL sales at Spirit were up 0.8%.
While consumer spending on eating and drinking out is improving, 
spending on big ticket items has been the main beneficiary of the 
return to real income growth so far. In this environment, we will 
continue to focus on improving customer experiences in order 
to drive sustainable growth across the core business. 
We are looking forward to integrating Spirit and to building the 
leading pub hospitality company in the UK, combining the best 
people, brands and processes from both businesses. We have only 
recently completed the acquisition, but our early analysis of the 
business is encouraging and we see a number of exciting 
opportunities for the combined business. 
We are confident of delivering another year of financial 
and strategic progress for our shareholders. 
Rooney Anand
Chief executive
30 June 2015
1. BBPA, company.
