 In my last statement as Chairman of Grainger Trust I am
pleased to report on another year of signiﬁcant progress and
achievement. In particular our emerging business lines are
evolving well to complement our core residential regulated
tenancy business.
chairman’ sstatement
Results This is the ﬁrst full year for which we present our results under
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and therefore the ﬁnancial
review contains a greater degree of explanation and interpretation than is usual.
Sufﬁce to say that the implementation of IFRS has no impact on the strategy and
cash ﬂows of our business and our key ﬁnancial indicators, based around net
asset values, show very healthy growth levels. Gross net asset value per share
(i.e. before any deductions for contingent tax or mark to market adjustments)
has risen by 20.2% to 677p from 563p. Base case Grainger Net Asset Value
(NAV) which brings in contingent tax and the reversionary surplus within our
long term portfolio now stands at 595p, up 19.8% from 496p. Statutory NAV
ﬁgures can be found in the ﬁnancial review. 
Proﬁt before tax has increased by 75% to £71.7m from £41.0m. Much of the
increase comes from revaluation or mark to market surpluses; on a like-for-like
basis, removing these items and the goodwill impairment loss, earnings before
interest and tax (‘EBIT’) fell by 4% to £81.5m from £85.3m, largely as a result
of the previously foreseen decrease in contribution from our development
division and from the increased cost of running a larger and more complex
enterprise. Increased borrowing costs from funding our investment programme
have reduced proﬁt before tax on the same basis to £27.4m from £35.6m. 
ROBERT DICKINSON
Chairman
17 18 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006
We are again increasing our dividend by 10% per annum and consequently
the board are recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 3.75p per share. If approved,
this will be paid on 6 March 2007 to shareholders on the register on 16 February
2007. Together with the interim dividend of 1.87p per share paid in July this
will produce a total dividend for the year of 5.62p per share (2005: 5.11p).
Strategy and Outlook Grainger has been successful at delivering consistent
shareholder value over a sustained period of time. Over the last ten years our
average total shareholder return has been 28.4% per annum. By comparison,
over the same period, the FTSE 250 has delivered average annual returns of
13.6% and the UK Real Estate Sector 15.9%. Our performance has largely
been based on the trading proﬁts and revaluation surpluses generated by our
substantial residential portfolio. 
Whilst we believe that a major part of this will come from the core regulated
portfolio we also acknowledge that Grainger must evolve over time to replace
those returns as the overall stock of regulated assets declines. Grainger’s 
key strengths come from a combination of its asset base, sound ﬁnancial
platform, reputation with key stakeholders and experience and expertise in 
the residential market. We have ambitious plans to leverage these to expand
the range and depth of the Grainger business to ensure further growth in
shareholder value. These include introducing third party capital (both debt 
and equity) to improve the efﬁciency of our capital structure and to achieve
signiﬁcant scale more quickly but without taking on disproportionate risk. 
This will also be achieved by working with joint venture and collaborative
partners and using our management skills to produce fee income for the 
group at little or no incremental cost. 
We have already made signiﬁcant progress with these plans, including the
introduction of equity funding in our Jersey Property Unit Trust, G:res 1, by
bringing in non-recourse debt to our European business and some equity
release interests, by working with joint venture partners to acquire both
residential and development assets and by acting as property and asset
managers for a number of third parties.
This evolution will continue and as our various portfolios mature and reach
critical mass we can foresee a time when our returns will come from a more
balanced combination of direct property ownership, co-investment in residential
funds and fee income. In the long term, this will help us deliver sustainable
chairman’s statement continued
a ﬁnal dividend 
of 3.75p
per share
total dividend 
for the year of
5.62p
per share
It is our aim to continue to deliver superior returns to shareholders.  19
performance driven returns and thereby further enhance shareholder value. 
We see a real opportunity for Grainger ultimately to become the leading
European co-investing fund manager in residential property. 
As shareholders will be aware, a consortium comprising Regis, Merrill Lynch
and the William Pears Group announced in October that it was ‘assessing the
attractions of making a proposal regarding a possible cash offer’ for Grainger.
Later that month, the consortium announced that it had no present intention
of making an offer. I can conﬁrm that their activity did not deﬂect the Board 
of Grainger or its executive management from the strategy outlined above. 
Prospects We have great belief in Grainger’s ability to deliver attractive returns
to shareholders:
• we have a unique and irreplaceable portfolio, unrivalled expertise 
and a very strong reputation amongst our stakeholders; 
• the existing business model has substantial income and growth potential; 
• we can create additional income and shareholder value by moving 
towards a co-investing fund management model; and 
• our ability to work with co-investors and other partners has been
illustrated by our joint venture relationships, our launch of G:res 1 
and our agreement with Development Securities plc. 
The group has considerably changed the way in which it operates over the 
last few years and to reﬂect those changes we consider it appropriate to 
move forward with a clearer identity – one which is more in keeping with the
reputation and image we intend to present in the future. Consequently, we 
will propose to our shareholders at our Annual General Meeting a change 
of name to Grainger plc. 
I would like to take this ﬁnal opportunity to thank all of our staff for the
commitment and expertise they have demonstrated not only during the year
but also throughout my time as a director.
Robert H. Dickinson
22 December 2006
These are exciting times for Grainger – and I leave the board optimistic
and conﬁdent about its future prospects. 
