 Strategic Report
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 04
Chairman’s statement
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present this Annual Report which records a very 
successful 2015 for the Group on a number of fronts.
Overview
Gresham continued its good progress in executing on key strategic 
objectives, and I am pleased to report 16% top-line growth with total 
revenues for the Group rising to £14.8m for the year. Importantly, the 
additional revenues are generated by high margin CTC software sales, 
which has resulted in strong growth in underlying profitability and an 
associated sharp increase in recurring revenues. This provides a solid 
platform for continued and profitable growth.
During the year an important milestone was reached when CTC 
became the Group’s best-selling software product with a number 
of major new clients adopting CTC as their strategic platform for 
ensuring the integrity of their data and transaction processing. 
Regulatory compliance, internal risk management and control were 
the key business drivers of this success, which we expect will continue 
into 2016 and beyond. To capitalise on this opportunity the Company 
is now extending its Clareti portfolio and is building a series of applications 
that use the CTC platform to meet specific customer business requirements. 
The Company has also developed and deployed a cloud-based service 
offering which allows our customers to utilise the CTC software through 
a Gresham managed service. This investment will allow us to grow our 
existing customer base and to attract new customers from numerous 
market segments. We have also invested and will continue to invest 
in our sales and marketing resources to fulfil demand globally.
Shareholders will have noted our announcements in 2015 regarding 
CTC contract wins in the US and in Asia. I am particularly pleased 
with these wins as they demonstrate the good progress the Group has 
made in expanding CTC adoption globally. The US and Asia markets 
have the potential for much higher growth and the Board continues to 
support the ongoing investments in direct sales resources, in addition 
to forming strategic alliances to further expand distribution capacity. 
Our sales success to date has resulted in a high quality referenceable 
customer base from which we can grow sales through account expansion 
whilst attracting new customers with our increasing portfolio of offerings. 
With our continued investment in the Clareti platform and sales and 
marketing expansion, I anticipate further improvement in our market 
position as we have a proven product addressing a growing demand 
for transparency and integrity over risk and financial data processing.
In addition to the contribution of CTC, our partner solutions and our 
legacy software businesses continue to provide valuable contributions to 
earnings through mainly recurring revenues representing lower risk revenue 
in the near to medium term. As previously highlighted these legacy 
revenues are in long-term decline and are being replaced by the 
growing higher margin revenues from our Clareti portfolio of products.
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
Summary
 • Strong top-line growth generated 
by high margin CTC software sales.
 • Regulatory compliance, internal risk 
management and control requirements 
are key business drivers.
 • CEO succession plan completed with a 
view to capitalising on market opportunity .
 • Ongoing investments in direct sales resources, 
in addition to forming strategic alliances. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Gresham Computing plc
Annual Financial Report 2015 05
Dividend
As reported last year, we received court approval in March 2015 
to make the necessary changes to our capital structure, through 
cancellation of the share premium account, such that the Company 
now has the ability to pay dividends and make other returns of capital 
when the Board considers it appropriate and desirable to do so. As a 
Board we are committed to commencing a progressive dividend when 
the circumstances are deemed to be appropriate. Whilst our priority 
remains to reinvest cash generated in 2016 into the business to support 
our strategic aims, as a Board we have a firm intention to review the 
position subsequent to that and consider declaring a maiden dividend 
in respect of financial year 2017 .
Board changes
As stated in last year’s Annual Report and in subsequent announcements, 
we welcomed Ian Manocha as our new Chief Executive on 1 June 2015 
to help us capitalise on the significant market opportunity that we are 
seeing to accelerate CTC growth and to realise our vision of becoming 
a market leader in real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity 
solutions. I am delighted to be working with Ian as we execute and extend 
our strategy for the ongoing development of the Group. Ian succeeds 
Chris Errington, who remains on the Board as a Non-Executive Director. 
Hamish Purdey left the Board in January 2015.
Outlook
The Gresham organisation and its employees are fully aligned to growing 
profitable revenue from CTC sales globally. I remain confident that our 
investments in sales, marketing and client support provide the platform 
to deliver shareholder value from our ongoing investment in CTC.
I would like to thank the management and staff for their continued support 
and resolve to achieve success in our pursuit of market leadership in 
real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity.
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
7 March 2016
“ The Gresham organisation 
and its employees are fully 
aligned to growing profitable 
revenue from CTC sales 
globally. I remain confident 
that our investments in sales, 
marketing and client support 
provide the platform to 
deliver shareholder value 
from our ongoing investment 
in CTC.”
Corporate governance page 19
