 4 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
I am very pleased to 
be introducing Gulf 
Marine Services’ 
second Annual Report. 
The Group performed 
very well in 2015 
against a background 
of low oil prices, 
successfully delivering 
on its business 
strategy.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 5 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
We can report a solid set of results for 2015. 
Revenue has grown 12% to US$ 219.7 million 
and EBITDA increased to US$ 138.5 million, 
with a continued good EBITDA margin  
of 63% (2014: 64%). Adjusted* net profit 
after taxation rose to US$ 84.9 million and 
adjusted* diluted earnings per share in  
the year was broadly flat at 24.05 cents. 
During 2015, three new build vessels were 
delivered on time and within budget and  
all three proceeded directly to their first 
contracts in the Middle East. Fleet expansion 
continues to be part of our strategy. Further 
additions to the fleet beyond 2016 are still  
to be decided upon and will be driven by our 
assessment of the factors affecting market 
demand, principally the oil price outlook. 
 
An existing Large Class vessel commenced  
a new long-term contract in the Middle East 
and a further Large Class vessel was also 
chartered to a new long-term contract  
in Europe. 
As at 1 March 2016, our backlog stands at 
US$ 443.9 million, with approximately 50%  
of this being contracted during 2015 when 
the oil price averaged US$ 53.0 a barrel. 
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
recommended a final dividend for the year 
of 1.20 pence (1.74 cents) per share subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
11 May 2016 and this will be paid on 16 May 
2016. The total dividend for the year is 1.61 
pence per share (2.43 cents) representing 
10% of adjusted* net profit. The Group’s 
dividend policy looks to maximise 
shareholder value and reflect GMS’ strong 
earnings and cash flow characteristics, while 
allowing the retention of sufficient capital to 
invest in long-term growth for the Group.  
As the period of intensive capital investment 
associated with the current new build 
programme concludes in 2016, the Board  
will consider the potential for further 
increased shareholder returns.
Throughout 2015 we continued to seek  
ways to enhance our offering. Early in 2016 
we were proud to announce that we are at 
the advanced design stage of a bespoke 
cantilever system for our SESVs. We 
anticipate that this exciting innovation will 
help to widen significantly the scope of work 
opportunities in supporting well services for 
GMS. Further information on this is included 
later in this report. 
In 2015 we saw a marked reduction in the  
oil price compared to recent years and this 
hampered the rate of growth we delivered in 
the year. While we are protected against the 
current market challenges to some extent  
as most of our operations are brownfield 
opex-related, with the majority of our 
vessels working in the low production cost 
MENA region, we did see some pressure on 
EBITDA margins in the latter part of 2015. 
We expect that a sustained low oil price will 
have a continued compression effect in 2016. 
While it is difficult currently to assess 
accurately what the impact on our trading 
will be, we are focused on maintaining vessel 
utilisation and our business model and 
strategy will help us continue our ongoing 
successful operations. 
As detailed elsewhere in this report, it  
has been a particularly busy year for the 
organisation. As staffing levels increased 
and the number of man hours worked rose 
significantly to 7.7 million, we maintained  
our focus on upholding our high levels of 
health and safety across the business and 
sustained a very good safety performance.  
I would like to take this opportunity to 
recognise and commend all staff and 
contractors, both onshore and offshore,  
for their hard work during the year and for 
successfully executing a significant number 
of projects. 
Looking forward, the Group is well-funded, 
with a healthy balance sheet and good 
operating margins. I am confident that under 
the leadership of our CEO Duncan Anderson 
and his strong management team, GMS is  
in a good position to manage the current 
challenges facing the industry. 
Simon Heale
Chairman
21 March 2016
* Please refer to the Glossary. 6 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT 7 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive’s Review 8
Our Business Model 12
Our Strategy 14
Key Performance Indicators 18
Risk Management 20
