 8 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
GMS performed solidly 
in 2015. We maintained 
very high utilisation 
and good charter  
rates overall while 
successfully delivering 
on our business 
strategy to expand 
our fleet of SESVs  
and grow the business, 
although a background 
of low oil prices did 
hamper our rate of 
growth in 2015. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 9 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Group Financial Performance
Revenue increased by 12% compared to 
2014 to US$ 219.7 million (2014: US$ 196.6 
million). On a constant currency* basis the 
increase in revenue was 15%. During the 
year adjusted* net profit after taxation 
increased by 4% to US$ 84.9 million (2014: 
US$ 81.3 million excluding IPO costs), 11% 
increase on a constant currency* basis. 
EBITDA increased to US$ 138.5 million  
(2014: US$ 124.8 million after adding back 
non-operational IPO costs), with a good 
EBITDA margin of 63% (2014: 64%). The 
proposed final dividend for the year is 
recommended to be 1.20 pence (1.74 cents) 
per share subject to shareholders’ approval 
at the AGM on 11 May 2016 and this will be 
paid on 16 May 2016, giving a total dividend 
for the year of 1.61 pence (2.43 cents). 
The Group was pleased to announce in  
Q4 2015 a new US$ 620 million debt facility, 
which both extends the maturity of our  
debt profile and delivers lower borrowing 
margins. There was US$ 225.0 million of 
undrawn bank facilities at 31 December 2015, 
providing security of financing for the 
foreseeable future.
 
High Fleet Utilisation
GMS has maintained its very high SESV 
utilisation level achieving a rate of 98% in 
2015. Our cost-effective offshore solutions 
are continuing to be employed by our clients 
seeking to extract maximum value from  
their assets while minimising costs; this has 
become increasingly relevant in the current 
low oil price environment.
Order Book
The Group has a secured backlog of  
US$ 443.9 million as at 1 March 2016 
(comprising firm and extension options for 
existing charters); approximately 50% of this 
backlog was secured in 2015 when the oil 
price averaged US$ 53.0 per barrel. The 
backlog has been adjusted to reflect a known 
reduction in contract period agreed after this 
date for one of our Small Class vessels. 
The majority of our work is brownfield 
opex-related, which continues to be helpful 
as we navigate the current challenges facing 
the industry. During the year, we were 
pleased to win a major new long-term 
contract (four years including options to 
extend) in MENA for a Large Class SESV that 
commenced in Q1 2015. In 2015 we delivered 
three new build SESVs to their first new 
charters in MENA. Another Large Class 
SESV was chartered to a new long-term 
contract (four years including options to 
extend) in the Dutch sector of the North Sea. 
 
Operations
Health, safety and the environment (HSE) 
continues to be our top priority, with the 
lives of everyone with whom we work, and 
others who are impacted by our activities, 
dependent on us upholding our high 
standards. We take very seriously the 
requirement to provide both our employees 
and subcontracted personnel with a safe 
working environment and one of the ways 
we achieve this is by including all our 
subcontractors, who number in excess  
of 500 people during heavy new build 
construction phases, in our HSE coaching 
and performance monitoring. 
We sustained a very good health and  
safety performance throughout the year. 
While the number of man hours worked in 
2015 rose to 7.7 million (2014: 4.8 million) the 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)* for  
the year improved to 0.18 (2014: 0.25). We  
will maintain our focus on HSE, with zero 
incidents continuing to be the target. 
We have a fleet of 14 SESVs (as at March 
2016, including GMS Sharqi) with the majority 
located in the Middle East and two in Europe. 
The SESVs have been primarily engaged in 
well services and accommodation support  
in 2015. GMS Sharqi was only recently 
completed at the end of Q1 2016 and  
we are actively seeking a first charter. 
The GMS SESV fleet is the largest in the 
world and it is one of the youngest, with an 
average vessel age of just seven years. In 
2015 we were especially pleased to introduce 
the new Mid-Size Class to the fleet, which 
has been very well received by our clients. 
By operating such a modern fleet, we are 
able to provide our clients with cost-effective 
deployment methods and substantial 
operational efficiencies that are not typically 
offered by older less sophisticated vessels. 
The fleet performed very well during 2015 
and while we had a significant number of 
special projects during the year, the majority 
of which were bespoke modifications or 
mobilisations requested by our clients for 
new charters, we maintained a very high 
vessel utilisation level of 98% across the 
SESV fleet for the days available for charter. 
Charter rates sustained some downward 
pressure towards the end of the year 
primarily as a reflection of the fall in oil price. 
* Please refer to the Glossary. 10 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
We are very conscious of managing  
our costs appropriately in the current 
environment. However, when utilisation is 
high there is limited scope for material cost 
reductions as certain operating costs for 
vessels tend to remain relatively fixed. If 
utilisation levels were to reduce, there  
would be more flexibility to make further 
cost savings. 
In 2015 we successfully integrated the 
simulator we launched the previous year 
into our bespoke command course for our 
masters and masters in training; this is part 
of our strategy to ensure we have sufficient 
appropriately-skilled crew to command our 
vessels now and in the future. The simulator 
has increased training opportunities, 
operational efficiency and cost-savings and 
the first tranche of senior officers graduated 
during the year. 
In-House Build, Maintenance  
and Modification 
We are both the builder and operator of our 
own SESV fleet, with our well-established 
in-house build model enabling us to design, 
build, maintain and modify our vessels 
ourselves. We are able to construct our 
vessels up to 30% cheaper than our peers 
who rely on external shipyards; we also 
achieve considerable cost-savings by 
carrying out repairs, modifications and 
mobilisations at our own shipyard in the 
Middle East. Towards the end of 2015 we 
relocated our yard to a new, larger facility  
at Zayed Port in Abu Dhabi and this will 
significantly increase our operational 
efficiency and will allow us to carry out  
more of our own fabrication work in-house. 
I am pleased to report that, in December 
2015, we exercised our option to purchase 
the leased SESV Pepper for US$ 51.0 million, 
a new Small Class vessel we introduced to 
the fleet in Q1 2015; this transaction was 
completed in Q1 2016 and we believe that 
this represents an appropriate use of capital 
given the returns expected from acquiring 
this asset. 
2015 was an exceptionally busy year for  
the new build, modifications and special 
project teams. Three new SESVs were 
delivered on time and within budget in the 
first nine months alone. GMS Sharqi was 
then delivered in Q1 2016. The Large Class 
vessel GMS Evolution, which will complete 
the current new build programme, is 
scheduled for delivery in Q4 2016. Further 
fleet expansion beyond this, which will be  
on a vessel-by-vessel basis, has yet to be 
decided upon and will be driven by our 
assessment of the factors affecting market 
demand, principally the oil price outlook. 
Markets
Middle East
We continue to be the leading SESV operator 
in the Middle East, where a high level of 
demand characterised the market in 2015. 
Our vessels in the region are chartered  
to clients who are very familiar with the 
cost-effective advantages our assets bring 
to brownfield maintenance, well intervention 
and enhanced oil recovery operations. Low 
production costs and demanding production 
targets have meant that both opex and 
capex-related activities have continued 
throughout the year. However, the sustained 
lower oil price will mean that operators  
in the region will continue to focus on cost 
reductions with inevitable pressure on day 
rates expected across the industry in 2016. 
Although four new quasi competitor vessels 
entered the regional market in 2015 (two of 
these vessels are not self-propelled and the 
remaining two vessels’ jacking systems are 
unsuited to the frequent jacking 
requirements of well services) we believe 
these vessels are really only suited to 
construction support projects rather than  
in well servicing where we predominantly 
operate. Accordingly, we expect the 
opex-related activities that provide much  
of the demand for our fleet to remain 
stronger relative to the capex/construction 
market in 2016. 
Europe
2015 saw the successful startup of a 
long-term contract in the Dutch sector  
of the North Sea on one of our Large Class 
SESVs. A significant milestone was also 
reached when our second Large Class SESV 
operating in the region transitioned from  
a maintenance to decommissioning role, 
remaining with the same client. We have 
been seeking to diversify into the 
decommissioning sector and this first 
charter demonstrated our ability to adapt 
our vessels to suit different types of work 
and changing market conditions. The vessel 
is carrying out the work very successfully 
and has been commended by our client. As 
decommissioning activity in the UKCS*, and 
elsewhere in the world, increases we would 
anticipate more business opportunities for 
GMS in this area. 
The introduction of the Mid-Size Class 
vessels in 2015 has provided us with greater 
flexibility on specification and pricing when 
bidding for shallower water contracts. 
However, in the second half of 2015 there 
was little new work starting up for short or 
long-term contracts in either the renewables 
or oil and gas sectors. Whilst GMS vessels  
in the region have remained fully utilised, a 
number of competitor vessels remained idle 
and we are likely to see strong competition 
for new opportunities in this region while oil 
prices remain low.
Rest of World
There have been limited opportunities 
outside of our core markets in 2015, with this 
a reflection of the lower oil price environment 
as clients defer work. However, we would still 
look to West Africa and South East Asia as 
good potential markets in the future. 
* Please refer to the Glossary.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 11 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2015
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Our Enhanced Offering –  
Well Intervention Services
We are actively seeking to broaden the 
services that we can offer from our vessels, 
particularly in competition with those 
provided by high operating cost and 
inflexible drilling rigs.
During 2015 we continued to build up our 
expertise in well intervention services and 
are developing cantilever systems for our 
Mid-Size Class and Large Class SESVs. The 
cantilever systems will allow GMS to deliver 
existing well intervention services more 
efficiently and quickly, and to provide a 
greater range of services from our SESVs. 
The delivery of our first large cantilever 
heavy well intervention system at the end  
of 2016, which will be installed on GMS 
Evolution, will enable GMS to compete for 
workover activity previously only able to be 
carried out from jackup drilling units. Unlike 
drilling rigs, the GMS SESV fleet is entirely 
self-propelled and does not require tugs or 
similar support vessels for moves between 
locations in the field; this makes them 
significantly more cost-effective and 
time-efficient than conventional offshore 
support vessels without self-propulsion, 
such as drilling rigs. We strongly believe  
this will be an attractive proposition for our 
clients both in the current market and when 
oil prices increase. 
Our People
Our people are at the very heart of our 
business. We employ personnel from more 
than 50 countries and are fortunate to 
benefit from the rich diversity this brings  
to GMS. 2015 was our busiest new build 
period in three decades. I would like to  
take this opportunity to personally thank  
all our staff for their dedication to GMS  
and continued commitment to maintaining  
our high standards. 
Outlook
The turbulence we have seen in oil and gas 
markets in 2015, we expect to continue 
throughout 2016. In recent conversations 
with clients it is clear that they continue to 
seek incremental cost savings both through 
the efficiencies that we can deliver through 
better working practices and innovative 
offerings, through lower charter rates,  
and in one instance, through the early 
termination of an existing vessel contract.  
In these demanding conditions, our focus is 
to maximise vessel utilisation and as a result 
we expect pressure on margins in 2016. 
While it is difficult at present to quantify with 
certainty what the impact on our trading will 
be, based on our expectations for existing 
charters and the timing and terms of new 
contracts, we currently expect EBITDA in 
2016 to be 15 to 20% lower than in 2015 and 
earnings per share (reflecting the increased 
depreciation charge for the enlarged fleet) 
to be approximately 25 to 30% lower. 
Expected peak net debt level for GMS in 
2016 is approximately US$ 435.0 million 
before reducing to around US$ 425.0 million 
by year end. Following completion of the 
new build programme net debt levels should 
reduce and, subject to the market outlook, 
the Group will have the capacity to look to 
increase returns to shareholders through 
the most appropriate mechanism at the time. 
In terms of future fleet expansion, whilst 
there are no current plans to increase our 
fleet size beyond 2016, the addition of any 
vessels in the future will be driven by our 
assessment of the factors affecting market 
demand, principally the oil price outlook. 
 
We will continue to help our clients achieve 
cost efficiencies through the provision of  
our low cost, flexible and efficient vessels. 
We are also developing new cost-effective 
solutions that offer the Group the 
opportunity to target a broader market 
share by supplanting more expensive  
and less flexible non-propelled drilling rigs. 
We are confident that our opex focused 
business model, our state of the art SESV 
fleet and leading operational expertise will 
ensure the Group navigates through the 
current challenging market conditions. 
 
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
21 March 2016
 
