 Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
A record year with increased investment for the future 
Halma has delivered a strong performance, achieving 
record revenue and profit
1
 for the twelfth consecutive year. 
Widespread organic growth, three acquisitions and one 
disposal once again demonstrated the benefits of having 
a clear growth strategy, a simple financial model and a 
customer-focused organisation.
Andrew Williams 
Chief Executive 
6 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 These results, combined with increased investment in talent, 
innovation and international expansion give us good momentum 
for the future. The sector-focused management structure, introduced 
in April 2014, is well-established and ensures Halma can continue 
to grow whilst harnessing our core values and operating culture. 
I have been particularly impressed with the way in which our 
operating companies continued to perform well during this period 
of organisational change and thank all Halma employees for their 
contributions to another successful year.
Good organic growth, high returns and strong 
cash generation
Adjusted
1
 profit was up by 10% to £153.6m (2014: £140.2m) after 
absorbing a 2% negative impact from currency. Organic profit growth 
was 7% at constant currency.
Revenue increased by 7% to £726m (2014: £677m), after absorbing 
a 2% negative impact from currency. Organic revenue growth was 
5% at constant currency.
High returns were maintained with Return on Sales increasing to 
21.2% (2014: 20.7%). Return on Capital Employed at the operating 
company level remained exceptionally strong at 78% (2014 restated: 
77%) and Return on Total Invested Capital (post-tax) was 16.3% 
(2014 restated
1
: 16.7%).
Strong cash generation ensured that we ended the financial year 
with net debt of £101m (2014: £7 4m) after spending £23m on capital 
expenditure (2014: £17m), £88m on current and prior year acquisitions 
(2014: £17m) and paying out £43m in dividends (2014: £40m) to 
shareholders and £31m (2014: £28m) of tax. 
Our balance sheet is strong and we have revolving credit facilities 
of up to £360m until November 2018 to support investment in our 
future growth.
Widespread growth in all regions
We achieved organic constant currency revenue growth in all four 
sectors and all major regions. 
Revenue from the USA increased by 4% to £223m (2014: £214m) 
including organic constant currency growth of 7%. UK revenue grew 
by 8% to £138m (2014: £128m) and Mainland Europe revenue was up 
by 2% to £167m (2014: £164m) with both including organic constant 
currency growth of 2%.
Revenue from outside the USA, UK and Mainland Europe improved 
by 16% to £197m (2014: £170m), representing 27% of total Group 
revenue (2014: 25%). This included 5% organic constant currency 
growth from China which, at £49m (2014: £47m), contributes 7% to 
total Group revenue. Strong growth in our two safety-related sectors 
helped revenue from Africa, Near and Middle East grow by 33% to 
£44m (2014: £33m).
Market snapshot 
Macro-economic, regulatory and 
competitive environment
Halma’s strategy is to develop market positions primed for growth 
over 10 years or more. Growth strategies within each operating 
company are developed with three to five year horizons.
Our focus on the supply of safety, health and environmental related 
products positions our businesses in relatively non-cyclical markets 
with high barriers to entry and long-term growth driven by:
 – increasing health and safety regulation
 – increasing demand for healthcare
 – increasing demand for life-critical resources
Regulation underpins most of our markets, driving sustained 
demand and often making customer spending non-discretionary. 
Our companies’ strong market positions leverage upgrade and 
replacement sales opportunities as customers seek to maintain 
compliance and conform to best practice. 
Our competitive environment is influenced by global, regional and 
national product approvals or technical validations. Compliance 
with new and updated product regulations is a steadily increasing 
cost and technical challenge but our expertise in this area enables 
us to respond quickly and build competitive advantage.
Halma is exposed to a very diverse range of niche markets, 
each with its own unique conditions. As a result, macro-economic 
factors can affect our businesses very differently according to their 
particular market and geographic exposure.
Our approach is for local operating company management to 
develop and execute their own growth strategy and respond to 
changes in their specific markets. Sector management teams 
provide strategic support and oversight for wider-reaching and 
longer term market dynamics. More details are given in the sector 
reviews on pages 32 to 39.
All of the factors above provide our businesses with genuine 
stability: resilience in challenging economic conditions and organic 
growth above prevailing market rates. This underlying, intrinsic 
strength enables us to plan and to invest for the longer term 
with confidence.
For 2015/16, growth projections have been raised for the US 
economy, which is our largest geographic market, possibly 
opening the way for revitalised R&D spending in markets such 
as life sciences. Fluctuations in the oil price have not substantially 
impacted our business so far, as spending on highly-regulated 
safety equipment is largely non-discretionary and the vast 
majority of our revenue comes from mid-stream or downstream 
applications. However, we are mindful that a sustained low oil 
price will eventually make our current high rates of growth in 
Process Safety more difficult to maintain.
Conditions in Europe and the UK are expected to support steady 
growth, though the relative strength of Sterling means that our 
companies need to manage input costs and pricing closely. 
Growth in emerging markets is forecast to continue at around 4% 
to 5% through 2015-16. Developing socio-economic conditions in 
Asia and South America are expected to fuel greater demand for 
our products used to create safer workplaces, provide healthcare, 
improve infrastructure safety and manage life-critical resources.
7 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Organic revenue growth in all sectors at 
constant currency
Process Safety revenue grew by 25% to £159m (2014: £127m) 
including organic constant currency growth of 9%. Profit
2
 improved 
by an impressive 28% to £44.8m (2014: £34.9m) with organic 
constant currency growth of 14%. Return on Sales increased 
from 27 .5% to 28.3%.
Organic revenue growth in constant currency was strongest in the 
USA with good growth in Mainland Europe and a small decline in 
the UK, Asia Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East. There was 
an encouraging contribution from Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. 
(RCS), the pipeline corrosion monitoring product company acquired 
in May 2014, which traded in line with expectations.
Infrastructure Safety revenue increased by 6% to £234m (2014: 
£220m) including organic constant currency growth of 5%. Profit
2
 
was up by 12% to £50m (2014: £44.4m) including organic constant 
currency growth of 12%. Return on Sales increased from 20.2% 
to 21.4%.
Organic revenue growth in constant currency was strongest in the 
UK and Africa, Near and Middle East with more modest growth in 
the USA and Europe and a small decline in Asia Pacific. Advanced 
Electronics Limited, the UK-based fire detection control systems 
manufacturer acquired in May 2014, performed well. 
In the Medical sector, revenue increased by 4% to £169m (2014: 
£163m) including organic constant currency growth of 6%. Profit
2
 
improved by 9% to £45.4m (2014: £41.8m) including organic constant 
currency growth of 10%. Return on Sales increased from 25.6% 
to 26.8%.
There was strong organic constant currency revenue growth in the 
USA, more modest increases in Mainland Europe and Asia Pacific 
and a slight decline in the UK. The integration of Plasticspritzerei AG, 
acquired in May 2014, into our ophthalmic surgical device business, 
Medicel, was completed to schedule and trading has been good for 
the combined business.
Environmental & Analysis revenue was £164m (2014: £167m) 
including a small organic constant currency increase. Profit
2
 was 
14% lower at £27 .4m (2014: £31.7m) including a 12% decline in 
organic constant currency terms. Return on Sales was 16.7% 
(2014: 19.1%).
After a disappointing first half year, operating performance improved 
in the second half with organic constant currency revenue growth of 
2%, providing encouragement for a more sustained recovery in 
revenue and profitability in 2015/16. 
Regionally, in organic constant currency terms, revenue was down in 
the USA and UK with the latter mainly due to lower investment by UK 
water utilities in the final year of their five-year investment cycle. There 
was organic constant currency revenue growth in Mainland Europe 
and all other major regions (in particular Asia Pacific).
Market snapshot 
Increasing health and safety regulation
Employers throughout the world must comply with increasingly 
strict government laws and regulations to protect their workers, 
the environment and their assets from workplace hazards. 
In parallel with this increasing national regulation in developing 
regions, many multinational employers based in the developed 
world are extending their health and safety practices across their 
global operations. These factors drive demand for our Process 
Safety and Infrastructure Safety products.
The human cost of workplace accidents and diseases is 
enormous. The International Labour Organisation estimates 
that 2.3 million people around the world die each year from 
work-related accidents or diseases. That is over 6,000 fatalities 
per day, or one person every 15 seconds.
In addition, every year 313 million work accidents occur, many 
resulting in extended work absences. Workplace injury and 
occupational disease is a significant economic burden on 
national economies and businesses. The financial impact of poor 
occupational safety and health practice is due to absences from 
work and sickness, disability benefits, compensation, interruption 
of production and medical expenses. These costs are estimated 
to be as high as 4% of global GDP . Above-average workplace 
casualty rates in some countries are estimated to be costing up 
to 10% of annual GDP .
Safety and health at work standards and practices vary 
considerably between countries, economic sectors and social 
groups. However, they are generally rising and becoming more 
closely aligned. Deaths and injuries take a particularly heavy toll in 
developing countries, where a large part of the population may 
work in hazardous conditions. However, greater investment and 
advances in occupational safety are reducing the number of fatal 
accidents at work.
Governments around the world are prompted by deaths and 
injuries caused by accidents to introduce new and tougher 
regulations that protect people from harm in commercial buildings 
and public places. The continuous introduction of new, mandatory 
building codes affecting fire protection, building security, 
automated doors and elevators drives demand for our 
Infrastructure Safety products.
8 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Three acquisitions completed and a good pipeline
Halma completed three acquisitions and one disposal during the year.
The current M&A market remains competitive although our pipeline 
of opportunities remains good. In the coming years, we expect to 
benefit from our new sector-focused structure which will provide 
greater resources to support our acquisition activity.
Our core strategy remains to continue to find privately-owned 
businesses in, or adjacent to, our existing markets although each 
sector has the freedom to find new niches which possess the right 
product, market and financial characteristics.
Every transaction is approved by the Group CEO and Finance 
Director, with all deals worth more than £10m also approved by the 
Halma plc Board.
All transactions in the year were completed in May 2014.
 – Plasticspritzerei AG, a Swiss-based supplier to our ophthalmic 
surgical instrument company, Medicel, was acquired for 
CHF6m (£4m), excluding the cash acquired. This business was 
immediately merged into Medicel and contributed to the Medical 
sector’s performance.
 – Advanced Electronics Limited, a UK-based manufacturer of 
networked fire detection and control systems was acquired for 
an initial cash consideration of £14m, excluding the cash acquired. 
Advanced operates as a stand-alone business within our 
Infrastructure Safety sector.
 – Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc., a California-based manufacturer 
of pipeline corrosion monitoring systems was acquired for US$108m 
(£64m), excluding the cash acquired. RCS operates as a stand-
alone business within our Process Safety sector.
 – Monitor Elevator Products Inc., a New York-based manufacturer 
of elevator control panels was sold to another industry player, 
Innovation Industries, for US$6m (£4m). Halma recorded a gain 
before tax of approximately £1m on this transaction. Monitor used 
to report its performance within our Infrastructure Safety sector.
In May 2015, we completed the acquisition of Value Added Solutions, 
LLC (trading as VAS Integrated). VAS, which will become part of Diba 
Industries within the Medical sector, designs and manufactures 
fluidic-related plastic machined components and assemblies for life 
sciences and analytical instruments. The initial cash consideration 
was US$5m (£3m).
Market snapshot 
Increasing demand for healthcare
Four long-term demographic trends drive healthcare 
demand worldwide:
 – ageing of the global population
 – growth of the global population 
 – increase in chronic disease
 – rising incomes in the developing world
Population ageing and rising numbers of people suffering from 
age-related chronic diseases provide a strong, long-term driver for 
healthcare services and products in our Medical and Environmental 
& Analysis sectors in both developed and developing economies. 
Advances in medical technology and new medical procedures 
also stimulate demand for new equipment.
Globally, the number of people aged over 65 is expected to more 
than triple over the next half-century. Life expectancy is expected to 
rise from 72.7 years in 2013 to 73.7 years by 2018. This will mean that 
more than 10% of the world’s population will be over 65. In Western 
Europe the proportion will hit 20% and in Japan, 28%. In the USA, 
the world’s largest healthcare market, increasing life expectancy 
is predicted to double the population of seniors by 2050.
While the oldest population profiles are currently in developed 
countries, the vast majority of older people and the fastest rates 
of change are in developing countries, where the number of older 
people is forecast to rise over 250% by mid-century.
Worldwide healthcare expenditure is about 10% of global 
GDP , and is forecast to increase by over 5% a year until 2018. 
Healthcare spending continues to rise rapidly in the developed 
world. In the USA, for example, total healthcare expenditure was 
estimated at $3.09 trillion in 2014, and is projected to increase to 
$3.57 trillion within three years.
In addition to ageing, population growth and rising wealth are 
strong drivers of healthcare demand in the developing world. 
Spend on healthcare in emerging nations is projected to rise 
dramatically with annual growth estimates for India and China at 
over 15% and 12% respectively, boosted by national initiatives to 
improve accessibility and quality of healthcare.
Globally, the incidence rates of cancer, heart disease, stroke, 
respiratory disease, diabetes and hypertension have risen sharply 
in the past decade, particularly in developing regions. These chronic 
diseases are the leading cause of mortality worldwide due to 
population ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, changing diets and 
rising obesity. Halma’s focus on ophthalmology and advanced 
blood pressure monitoring products directly relates to the diagnosis 
and treatment of these chronic and age-related diseases.
“ In the coming years, we expect 
to benefit from our new sector-
focused structure which will 
provide greater resources to 
support our acquisition activity.” 
9 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Market snapshot 
Increasing demand for life-critical resources
Rising energy consumption and water usage, the inevitable 
consequences of social and economic development, are driven 
by three key trends:
 – population growth
 – rising living standards
 – dietary and agricultural changes 
Water consumption grew twice as fast as the world population in 
the 20th century. Already one third of the world’s population lives 
in water-stressed countries, and by 2025 that may rise to two 
thirds. By 2030, only 60% of the world’s water needs will be 
met if current trends continue. By 2050, water demand for 
manufacturing alone is expected to increase by between 400% 
and 700%.
Competition for water resources is forecast to increase between 
industries and economic sectors, and between countries in both 
developed and developing regions. The rising value of finite water 
resources drives demand for our water conservation, treatment 
and testing products.
Demand for water is strongly linked to energy demand. Water is 
needed to convert resources into electricity via thermal, nuclear, 
and hydro processes and also alternative sources such as 
irrigation of biofuel crops. 15% of water withdrawal is currently 
used for energy production, but this is expected to rise 20% by 
2035 due to population growth, urbanisation and changing 
consumption patterns.
Worldwide energy demand is expected to grow by more than 
one third up to 2035, with China and India accounting for more 
than half of the growth. Rising demand for energy will put further 
strain on the world’s fresh water resources in the coming decade, 
especially in developing and emerging economies as energy is 
needed at all stages of water extraction, treatment and distribution.
Increasing wealth in developing regions is enabling populations to 
change from starch-based to meat and dairy diets, which raises 
agricultural water demand. Dietary change has had the biggest 
impact on global water consumption over the past 30 years, and 
this trend is expected to continue well into the middle of the 
twenty-first century.
As global demand for water becomes unsustainable, the importance 
of improving efficiency and effective monitoring is growing. Several 
of our Environmental & Analysis sector businesses operate in 
markets driven by the global trends of rising demand for life-critical 
resources such as energy and water. Global investment in 
traditional and unconventional energy sources also drives 
demand for our Process Safety products.
New sectors and Executive Board changes now 
well established
In April 2014, Halma’s Executive Board was reorganised with four 
new Sector Chief Executive (SCE) positions replacing seven Divisional 
Chief Executive roles and the addition of a Group Talent Director. 
During the year, the Executive Board has devoted significant time 
to developing into their new roles both individually and collectively, 
and this leaner board is already proving to be a more efficient 
leadership team.
The strategic rationale for making this change was to give each 
sector the potential to grow to become the size of the whole of 
Halma today while retaining the growth strategy and culture which 
has made Halma successful in the past.
This improved scalability of the Halma model comes from the 
SCEs appointing Sector Vice Presidents (SVPs) to chair operating 
companies within their sector and, during the year, we have recruited 
a new SVP for each sector including two internal promotions. Each 
sector also has a Sector Finance Director which, together with the 
SVPs, provides significant additional resources to support each 
SCE’s acquisition efforts.
In May 2015, Philippe Felten took over from Neil Quinn as Process 
Safety SCE, after a succession planning process started in April 2014. 
I would like to thank Neil for his service to Halma since joining Apollo 
Fire Detectors as their Sales Director in 1987 . Over 28 years, Neil has 
served as a Managing Director, Divisional Chief Executive, Sector 
Chief Executive and as a Halma executive Director, making a 
significant contribution to Halma’s growth.
“ During the year , the Executive 
Board has devoted significant 
time to developing into their 
new roles both individually and 
collectively, and this leaner board 
is already proving to be a more 
efficient leadership team.”
10 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 How we are boosting 
growth in China by local 
product development
Halma is always looking for ways in which we can help to accelerate 
the growth and development of our businesses. A key growth 
strategy in fast-growing, developing economies like China is to 
develop innovative, locally-designed products that exactly meet 
the needs of local customers. 
Two years ago we began a programme to subsidise the cost 
of hiring additional R&D staff in China. This encouraged our 
companies to significantly expand their local design engineering 
teams. It has been a great success. So far, 15 Halma businesses 
have taken advantage of the subsidy. They have hired 22 extra 
engineers, with another three in the pipeline. To date, 27 new R&D 
projects have begun and 10 new Chinese-market products have 
been launched, generating sales of over £2m in 2014/15.
Martin Zhang
President, Halma China
The success of our Chinese R&D staff subsidy programme, 
which supports our strategy of moving product development 
closer to customers, is a good example of how we add value 
to our operating companies. It has greatly improved our ability 
to meet local customer needs and injected fresh new ideas 
in developing innovative ways to solve customer problems. 
“ We have spent considerable 
time assessing our senior 
management talent and we 
are putting in place better 
processes to improve our 
talent pipeline, both internally 
and externally.”
Continued strategic investment to drive 
organic growth
Halma is a diverse and decentralised business. Our companies 
benefit from being part of the Group both through collaboration with 
other Halma companies and the targeted central investment made 
by Halma in three key areas: Talent Development, Innovation and 
International Expansion.
Talent development
Following the appointment of our Group Talent Director, Jennifer 
Ward in April 2014, we have spent considerable time assessing our 
senior management talent and we are putting in place better processes 
to improve our talent pipeline, both internally and externally.
Each subsidiary Managing Director has completed an individual 
assessment which has highlighted their core strengths and 
development needs against our future leadership requirements. We 
have also revised and re-launched our Diversity and Inclusion policy 
and this was a focus for our senior managers attending the Halma 
Innovation and Technology Exposition (HITE) in Barcelona in April 
2015. We have an increasingly diverse customer base and recognise 
the need to continuously work to reflect this in the diversity of our 
leadership teams.
Innovation
Our investment in new products increased once again, with R&D 
spend up by 8% to £34.6m (2014: £32. 1m), representing around 5% 
of revenue. New product innovation is a vital component of growing 
revenue through market share gain and market expansion, but Halma’s 
commitment to innovation is much broader and encompasses 
all aspects of our business.
The biennial HITE events enable senior managers of all Halma’s 
subsidiary companies to meet and share their experience and 
knowledge with each other. This year’s event embraced digital 
technology with a ‘virtual’ trade show which increased the time 
and space available for collaboration. It also enabled the winners 
of the Halma Annual Innovation Awards to be voted for by HITE 
delegates during the event itself.
The award for Best Product Innovation was won by Alicat 
Scientific’s Whisper series of gas flow meters which accurately 
measures gas flow rates without the sensor device itself adversely 
affecting the measurement. The Best Process Innovation was 
awarded to Netherlocks for its R&D internship programme and the 
Best Collaboration award went to Crowcon and Perma Pure for 
Crowcon’s Sprint eVo gas analyser which incorporated Perma 
Pure’s gas sample conditioning technology.
11 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements  Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
International expansion
Halma continues to invest to accelerate subsidiaries’ growth in 
international markets. Regions outside the USA, UK and Mainland 
Europe now contribute over 27% of the Group revenue compared with 
less than 18% in 2005, even though we have achieved strong growth in 
our core developed markets too. A catalyst for our success has been 
the Halma hubs first created in China in 2006, in India in 2008 and, 
more recently, replicated by individual sectors in South America.
Halma’s approach is to put in place the commercial infrastructure 
necessary to enable our subsidiary companies to build a direct 
presence in these target markets more quickly than they would be 
able to do so alone. For example, in the last two years Halma has 
subsidised the cost of additional R&D engineers in China for our 
businesses to develop new products for the local market. To date 
subsidiary companies have added around 25 new engineers and 
revenue from the new products launched so far exceeded £2m 
in 2014/15 and is forecast to be more than double that in the 
coming year.
Delivering corporate responsibility and sustainability
Our primary market growth drivers mean that Halma companies 
operate in markets in which their products contribute positively to the 
wider community. These market characteristics and our commitment 
to health and safety, the environment and people development are 
reflected in the values held by our employees and our operating culture.
We review our responsibility and sustainability reporting in 
accordance with best practice. Legislative changes, particularly 
concerning the environment and bribery and corruption, have 
provided an opportunity to review and ensure that our procedures 
in these important areas are accessible, compliant and firmly 
embedded within our business.
A detailed report on Corporate Responsibility is on pages 42 to 47 .
Outlook
I am very pleased with the progress that Halma has made this year 
by achieving good organic growth, completing three acquisitions and 
a disposal while further increasing investment in talent development, 
innovation and international expansion.
Changes made to our organisation in April 2014 mean that, in the 
longer term, each of our four sectors has the potential to grow to 
become the size of the whole of Halma today, through continued 
and disciplined execution of our well-proven growth strategy. 
We expect to make further progress in the year ahead.
Andrew Williams 
Chief Executive 
1
 See Financial Highlights.
2
 See Note 1 to the Accounts.
12 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
