 Structured for growth
This has been another successful year for Halma demonstrating 
the breadth and strength of our portfolio of companies which 
are focused on protecting life and improving the quality of life for 
people worldwide. 
Last year we announced a significant organisation change in the 
Group into the four market sectors that we operate in and that the 
composition of the Executive Board was to be aligned with these 
sectors. I am pleased to report that the transition of the organisation 
into this new structure has gone extremely well while at the same 
time retaining the important elements of local management and 
entrepreneurship in the businesses. We also believe that this structure 
provides more opportunity to improve succession planning for senior 
management as there is clearer visibility of talent and emerging talent 
in the respective sectors.
During the financial year we acquired three businesses in the Process 
Safety, Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors for a total cost of 
£84m. These businesses have been successfully integrated into their 
respective sectors and are all performing in line with our expectations 
on acquisition. It is encouraging that at the start of this new financial 
year, we have a strong pipeline of potential acquisitions. Identifying 
suitable acquisitions is an important part of our long-term growth 
model and I believe that the Sector CEOs will broaden our M&A activity 
as they focus on the future needs of the markets in which they operate.
The continuing success at Halma is a tribute to the outstanding 
efforts of our talented workforce and a culture that encourages 
innovation and strong local decision making.
In April 2015 we held our biennial leadership conference with 250+ 
people from around the business; this was a great opportunity for 
our colleagues and the Board to be involved and experience the 
development and innovation of products and services in the last year. 
This event has certainly created a healthy competitive culture to be 
the most innovative company in the Group. In addition, the significant 
progress that has been made in driving collaboration between the 
businesses, not only on a sector basis but also across sectors, was 
pleasingly evident. The examples of businesses sharing technology 
and know-how with each other, and case studies of how collaboration 
has enhanced product offering in the marketplace were numerous. 
Such an innovative culture and the success in our collaborative efforts 
create an important platform for future growth at Halma.
Governance
The Board continues to maintain a focused and disciplined approach 
to governance and I believe that a strong governance structure can 
be one of the principal supports for producing outstanding revenue 
Chairman’s Statement 
growth, successful acquisitions and the continued expansion of our 
business through innovation. The Board also remains focused on 
ensuring its own effectiveness and the effectiveness of governance 
processes throughout the Group. It was therefore pleasing that the 
external Board evaluation this year highlighted the Board’s strength 
and the value it brings to the Group.
During the year I was delighted to welcome Roy Twite and Tony Rice 
as non-executive Directors to the Halma Board. Roy and Tony bring 
valuable and different perspectives to our discussions as well as very 
relevant engineering experience.
After 17 years of service, Neil Quinn retired from the Board in 
May 2015. I, and my colleagues, would like to thank Neil for his 
huge contribution to the many businesses with which he has 
worked successfully over a long period of time. Neil’s leadership 
style allowed businesses to flourish and retain their entrepreneurial 
spirit in true Halma style.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Stephen Pettit, 
our Senior Independent Director, for his significant contribution and 
wise counsel to the Company over the last 1 1+ years. Stephen will 
retire at the conclusion of our AGM in July after agreeing to stay on 
for an extra year at last year’s AGM after we had two unanticipated 
Board retirements.
Further information on Corporate Governance is included on pages 
55 to 65.
Performance and dividend
This is the twelfth successive year of revenue, adjusted profit 
and dividend growth which reflects the efforts of our very talented 
workforce in our businesses around the world. The Board and 
I would like to thank all of our colleagues for their commitment 
to driving innovative growth which in turn delivers great value 
for our shareholders. 
I am pleased to report that revenue for the year increased by 7% 
(2014: 9%) to £726m (2014: £677m) with adjusted
1
 profit before tax 
increasing by 10% (2014: 9%) to £154m (2014: £140m). With half of 
the profit increase coming from acquisitions, this sits nicely within our 
financial KPI objective of achieving at least a 5% contribution from 
acquisitions and at least another 5% organically. 
Once again, the Board is recommending a final dividend increase 
of 7% which is 7 .31p per share giving a total dividend for the year 
of 1 1.96p. The final dividend per share is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2015 and will be paid on 
19 August 2015 to shareholders on the register at 17 July 2015. 
This marks the 36th consecutive year of dividend per share 
increases of 5% or more.
Summary
During a year of organisation change we have continued to make 
great progress: strategically; operationally; and financially. However 
there is no complacency in the changing markets in which we 
operate. Our priorities for 2016 are to continue to improve focus on 
our customers and their needs through innovation and our go-to-
market strategies. We are also upgrading our talent and education 
programmes to ensure we have the best people to meet the growing 
demands of our customers. A key component of this is to ensure 
that diversity and inclusion are at the heart of our people agenda – 
essential for a business operating in international markets.
Finally I would like to, again, thank all of my colleagues for their 
considerable efforts in contributing to a successful 2015 and I look 
forward to further progress in 2016.
Paul Walker 
Chairman
1
 See Financial Highlights.
3 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
