 6 halladale group plc annual report and accounts 2002
The year under review has been one of substantial activity and
significant achievement on all fronts, despite a background of
international turbulence and economic slowdown in the UK 
and elsewhere.
Within the UK property market there is a clear differential
between the occupier market where tenant demand is weak,
particularly for offices, and the investment market where there 
is strong demand from institutional and private investors.
There has been a distinct improvement in sentiment towards
property, influenced by its recent outperformance of equities
and gilts and a perception that bricks and mortar represent a
safe investment in uncertain times.
Property
It has been an active year for the Company and this is demon-
strated by transactions totalling £82m this year compared to
£34m last year, and a 92% increase in the portfolio under
management to £116m at 30th April 2002. We are pleased that
this is also reflected in the 36% increase in profit before tax to
£1.151m this year and a 13% increase in proforma NAV to 77.6p
at the year end.
Total acquisitions of £63.5m during the year will provide
interesting asset management opportunities which should
contribute to profit in future years. Disposals of £18.23m during
the year took advantage of strong investor demand and were
also consistent with our strategy of realising profit, once 
the asset management opportunities have been achieved, 
and recycling the capital released into new projects.
With continued strong consumer spending, we believe our
current focus on the retail sector is the right strategy in today’s
market. We continue to favour shopping centres where rental
levels are realistic and provide prospects for growth, but more
importantly where we can identify specific opportunities to 
add value. We are also growing our development and project
management activities recognising, in the present economic
climate, the key risk element is the end occupier. We will only
undertake developments where we have reached agreement
with the end occupier or where local economy supply and
demand factors convince us there will be continued
occupational demand.
The increase in our property activities has required us to
expand our management team and we recruited two asset
managers during the year, based in our Glasgow and London
offices. As the Company grows we are determined to ensure 
we continue to attract the highest calibre of management 
to maintain and enhance the professional standards we 
set ourselves.
Corporate
Our experience as an AIM listed Company has been good 
and there is no doubt it has raised the Company’s profile 
in the market place. The choice of AIM was the right one 
as the regulatory environment is much more suited to a
transaction-orientated company like Halladale. Furthermore,
for as long as the business continues as a trading group, 
the ordinary shares will be eligible for capital gains tax
business asset taper relief.
One of the reasons for seeking a Stock Exchange Listing
was the ability to raise new equity to grow the Company 
and, since Admission on 27th April 2001, we have raised
£722,000 through two share issues, both of which were
associated with the setting up of new joint ventures. The 
first of these in July 2001 was a joint venture with Haworth
Nominees Ltd, a private client of Kleinwort Benson Private
Bank, and involved the acquisition of an existing company
which owned two shopping centres valued at £18.1m. 
The second share issue in January 2002 was to the Bank 
of Scotland in association with the formation of Halladale
Ventures Ltd. This company was established with £1m of 
equity from each of Halladale and the Bank of Scotland,
together with revolving credit facilities and unsecured loan
stock, totalling £33m provided by the Bank. I would take 
this opportunity of extending a warm welcome to all our 
new shareholders.
As well as the new relationships referred to above, we 
have strengthened our existing relationship with Citigroup
Alternative Investments through two new joint ventures, 
one during the year and one since the year end, both of 
which are described in the Operational Review.
In addition to raising £722,000 of new equity on our own
balance sheet since Admission, we have in the same period
also raised £15.6m of new equity off balance sheet for specific
projects through joint ventures. As I explain later, whilst 
joint venture relationships are important to us, this does
demonstrate we have the capacity to initiate and manage a
much bigger portfolio on our own balance sheet. The term 
‘joint ventures’ includes all associate and joint venture
companies as disclosed in Note 12 to the accounts.
chief executive’s review “In the medium term 
the macro picture for the property market should
continue to be good with improving investment
sentiment and a stable background of low inflation
and low interest rates.”
david lockhart, chief executive halladale group plc annual report and accounts 2002 7
Strategy
Our core strategy continues to be to create value for share-
holders through active and entrepreneurial management 
and risk controlled development of property assets over 
an average three year timescale.
Increasingly we implement that strategy through joint
ventures and at the year end 53% of the portfolio under
management was in off balance sheet joint ventures. 
This reflects the growing trend in the property industry 
of separating the long term ownership of property assets 
from their management.
We are committed to expanding our joint venture activities
through existing and new relationships. We believe the growing
demand for property as an investment will increase the need 
for innovative and specialist co-investment vehicles and that 
we are well placed with our range of property and financial
skills and experience to set up, in partnership with others, 
and manage these vehicles.
As a consequence, our fee income continues to grow and 
in future years we expect to see that forming a significant part
of our recurring income. Co-investing is also an effective use 
of our capital through incentivised equity returns.
Prospects
In the medium term the macro picture for the property market
should continue to be good with improving investment
sentiment and a stable background of low inflation and low
interest rates.
Occupational demand and the prospects for rental growth
should return as and when the economy resumes normal
growth trends. In the meantime local economic factors vary
across the country and opportunities to add value can still be
identified through careful and well researched stock selection.
We have a strong and committed management team and we
remain determined to drive the business forward through the
next phase of its growth. I believe we can face the challenges
ahead with confidence.
I would like to thank our management team, staff and
professional advisors for their commitment and their hard 
work throughout the year.
DAVID LOCKHART CA NP
Chief Executive
portfolio under
management 
£000
50,460
00
60,270
01
116,000
02
total transactions
£000
29,000
00
34,000
01
82,000
02
