 Market Hall, Carlisle
06 Halladale Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2005
This has been another year of
signiﬁcant advance by Halladale 
and, even by comparison with our
previous high levels of activity, it has
been an extremely active year with
considerable growth across all key
areas of our business operations.
Total transactions in the portfolio under management during 
the year more than doubled from £155m in 2004 to £347m and
at 30 April 2005 our total portfolio under management had 
also more than doubled to £450m from £205m a year earlier. 
We co-launched two new co-investment Property Funds and at 
the corporate level we announced our second major fund raising
exercise of £13.4m, net of expenses, which completed just after
the ﬁnancial year end.
We are also delighted to announce another excellent set 
of ﬁnancial results which show strong growth in all our key
performance indicators. The increases in proﬁt before tax and 
total dividend of 50% and 38% respectively justify our rating 
as an asset backed earnings business. Total return on equity 
on a proforma basis was 19.61% for the year (see page 21).
In the UK, property was the top performing asset class in 2004
producing a total return of 18.3%. Most of that performance
came from capital growth fuelled by strong investor demand,
despite limited occupational demand and rising interest rates.
Retail, where the Company is signiﬁcantly invested, was the top
performing sector for the third year in succession. We continue 
to monitor market opportunities and have made a number of
strategic acquisitions in non-retail sectors, notably south east ofﬁces.
Fundraising
On 20 April 2005 we announced our second major fund raising of
£13.4m, net of expenses, through an issue of new ordinary shares,
which successfully completed on 16 May 2005. This followed the
completion of our ﬁrst major fund raising of just under £15m net
of expenses in May 2004.
We have a growing number of core institutional shareholders 
and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome our new
shareholders and also to thank our existing shareholders for their
continued support.
To those investors who acquired shares in Halladale at the time 
of our Admission to AIM in April 2001 and have held them since
then, we have delivered a total annual return of 25.5% in the
period to 30 April 2005, based on the share price at that date and
dividends paid since Admission.
Chief Executive’s review Annual Report & Accounts 2005 | Chief Executive’s Review 07
The combined effect of our two fund raising exercises has
transformed Halladale in two important ways. Firstly, our market
capitalisation has increased from circa £15m fourteen months ago
to over £60m today on a fully diluted basis. This provides us with
greater critical mass and higher recognition within the investing
community. Secondly, the new capital has given us a much
stronger balance sheet, enabling us to increase the size of projects
we can undertake, as well as expand our co-investment activities
and, where appropriate, take larger equity stakes.
The funds raised in 2004 have been put to effective use. We have
more than doubled our co-investment portfolio from £162m to
£388m at 30 April 2005, through our ability to co-invest £9.3m 
of our own equity alongside £64.2m of project equity raised from
our co-investment partners. We were also able to expand our
development programme and increase the value of our directly
owned properties from £43m last year to £62m at the year end.
This demonstrates the effective use to which we have put the
funds raised last year and we intend to do so again with the new
funds raised since the year end.
Business model
Our strategy is to create value through active and entrepreneurial
management, risk controlled development and co-investment 
in commercial property assets and we implement that strategy 
in three key areas:
Asset management – our core strategy, since the Company 
was founded, where we seek to identify opportunities that we can
add value to through our own skills and efforts rather than purely
relying on movement in the markets. At the year end the value 
of properties held for asset management was £295m of which
£249m (84%) was in a number of single investor co-investment
joint ventures with key partners, including Bank of Scotland, Anglo
Irish Private Equity, Citigroup and Kodak Pension Plan. The remaining
£46m (16%) was directly owned on our own balance sheet.
Development – our risk controlled approach to development is
achieved through utilising our own equity to seed development
opportunities through options and conditional contracts. Once 
we have created a viable development scheme with all necessary
consents we decide, having regard to risk and size, whether to
fund it directly on our own balance sheet or through one of our
co-investment joint ventures. Our total development programme,
valued at £65m at 30 April 2005, had an estimated end value 
on completion in excess of £260m of which £75m (29%) is being
funded on our own balance sheet and the remaining £185m
(71%) in co-investment joint ventures.
Co-investment fund management – during the year under
review we co-launched two Property Funds with a total investment
capacity of circa £215m of which £90m had been invested at 
30 April 2005. The ﬁrst was the £185m CReAM Fund co-launched
with Citigroup which will seek to deliver core returns through
investing primarily in the UK retail property sector. The Fund will
have a lifespan of six to eight years. Halladale has a 10% equity 
stake in the Fund and has been appointed as Asset and Property
Manager. Citigroup has a 20% equity stake in the Fund and
underwrote the remaining 70% which is currently being sold
down to both institutional and high net-worth private investors.
The second was the £30m Halladale Nelson Fund and was our 
ﬁrst Property Fund targeted at the private investor market. It is an
income based Fund seeking to deliver a 6.5% annual distribution
to its investors. Nelson is investing in a spread of properties,
principally in the ofﬁce and retail sectors, and has a life span of
seven years. Halladale has invested 9.36% of the equity in the
Fund and has been appointed Asset and Property Manager.
The ability to leverage on our balance sheet, whether through
single investor co-investment joint ventures or multi investor 
co-investment Property Funds, lies at the heart of our co-investment
business model. At 30 April 2005 co-investment activities
accounted for 86% of our total portfolio under management.
Since our Admission to AIM on 27 April 2001 we have raised a
total of £104m of project equity from our co-investment partners
of which £14m has been subsequently repaid. This has enabled us
to grow our total co-investment portfolio from £13.5m at the time
of Admission to £388m at the year end. We believe this is a very
efﬁcient use of our equity which generates a growing recurring fee
income as well as equity and performance related returns.
Prospects
The signiﬁcant growth in capital values in recent years has been
largely driven by investors re-rating property as an asset class
rather than by historical fundamentals such as occupational
demand and rental growth. One consequence of this re-rating is
that property should continue to be an important part of any well
balanced portfolio for the foreseeable future, especially against 
a stable background of low inﬂation and low interest rates.
That re-rating process must at some stage come to an end,
although the precise timing is difﬁcult to call, particularly with
early indications that interest rates may have peaked leading 
to the prospect of lower borrowing costs. When that happens, 
the property investment market should revert to historical
fundamentals where prospects at the macro level will be
inﬂuenced by the performance of the UK economy. It is in this type
of market that the range of asset management and development
skills that we possess becomes essential to maximise income and
create value. One of our strengths is the extensive network of
contacts we have established throughout the UK which continually
enables us to identify opportunities to apply these skills and also
provides us with a strong pipeline of new projects.
Another of our strengths is the quality and commitment of our
management team and I’d like to take this opportunity to thank
them and our professional advisors for their professionalism and
hard work, without which Halladale’s signiﬁcant achievements in
the year under review would not have been possible. We remain
conﬁdent that the combination of our entrepreneurial asset
management and development skills, together with growing 
fee income from our co-investment activities, will enable us to
continue to deliver attractive total returns to our shareholders.
David Lockhart
Chief Executive
“We remain conﬁdent that the combination 
of our entrepreneurial asset management and
development skills, together with growing fee
income from our co-investment activities, will
enable us to continue to deliver attractive total
returns to our shareholders.” 08 Halladale Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2005 08 Halladale Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Risk-controlled development
All developments involve an element of risk. The key 
to exploiting opportunities successfully lies in identifying,
managing and controlling those risks from the outset. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 | Halladale Group plc 09
Where opportunities have been identiﬁed to add value to 
an existing property through development, detailed research 
is essential. The initial decision to acquire must be based on 
a real understanding of the factors that could impact on the
development and the realisation of value, including planning 
issues and tenant demand.
In the case of the Bay Tree Centre in Brentwood, acquired in 
co-investment with Bank of Scotland, thorough due diligence gave
a clear indication of how value could be maximised. The leasehold
interest in the property was purchased for £7.25m at a net initial
yield of 5% in 2002, with a development strategy to extend 
and refurbish the existing 70,000 sq. ft. shopping centre and
convert the vacant adjoining ofﬁce tower into residential units. 
Prior to purchase the enthusiastic support of the local council 
in refurbishing the centre, coupled with strong local demand for
quality housing, was carefully established. These factors made 
it extremely likely that a complex planning consent would be 
negotiated and that either the terms of the ground lease would 
be renegotiated or the freehold, owned by the local authority,
could be acquired. Full discussions with local Council ofﬁcials,
tenants and local residents were held to assess the risks involved.
After detailed discussions, terms were agreed to acquire the
freehold interest in the property for £9m and a planning consent
was successfully negotiated. On completion, scheduled later this
year, we will have rejuvenated the tired, open poorly let property
into a 120,000 sq. ft., fully enclosed climatically controlled modern
shopping centre. The anchor supermarket let to Somerﬁeld will
continue in situ alongside new tenants including JJB Sports,
Wilkinsons and Bon Marche. The ofﬁce tower, vacant for ten years,
has been sold to Barratt, since the year end for just over £7m,
along with the consent to refurbish as 106 one and two bed ﬂats,
with adjacent parking. As a result of the retail development it has
been possible to increase the tone of the rents in the adjoining
High Street block, also included in the property purchased, from
£55.00 to £75.00.
Background: 
Bay Tree Centre, Brentwood, Essex
Foreground (from left to right): 
Allan Lockhart of Halladale 
and François Nairac of L’Etoile
Developments 10 Halladale Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Partnership through co-investment joint ventures and
co-investment property funds allows us to apply our
skills to substantial opportunities in a range of sectors.
Acting in partnership Annual Report & Accounts 2005 | Halladale Group plc 11
The best co-investments are based on compatible cultures 
and mutual understanding. Long-term relationships result in 
quick decision-making and the ﬂexibility to take advantage 
of opportunities in a range of markets.
Our co-investment with Anglo Irish Private Equity is just one
example of how working with the right partners provides
opportunities for Halladale. Sunbury Cross shopping centre was
purchased for £21.35m in January 2005. The mixed-use centre
comprises 57,500 sq. ft. of retail anchored by Marks & Spencer,
Boots and Halfords together with the prominent 56,000 sq. ft.
Chubb Tower ofﬁce block, a multi-storey car park and two
residential tower blocks let on ground leases.
The property contains a range of value enhancement strategies
through active asset management. The combination of 
strategies to maximise returns in this venture will be fully 
explored with Anglo Irish Private Equity and implemented 
at the earliest opportunity.
Background:
Sunbury Cross Shopping Centre, Middlesex
Foreground (from left to right):
John Daly of Anglo Irish Private Equity 
and Alistair McGill of Halladale 12 Halladale Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Driving the creation of value from a portfolio is based
on the advance development of strategies for a range
of individual properties and the ability to put them
into practice quickly and decisively.
Maximisation and 
realisation of value Background:
Church Street, Liverpool
Foreground (from left to right):
Peter Bax of Citigroup, Bryan Sheriff
and David Petrie of Halladale
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 | Halladale Group plc 13
Our third joint venture with Citigroup involved the purchase of 
a portfolio of primarily retail properties for £32m in June 2002.
Individual strategies for each property had been identiﬁed prior to
purchase. For four of the properties, where identiﬁed opportunities
to add value were minimal, back-to-back sales were agreed for 
a total of £9.3m, generating proﬁt and signiﬁcantly reducing the
initial equity required. Across the remainder of the portfolio, our
range of asset management strategies included undertaking rent
reviews, negotiating longer term leases from existing tenants, and
re-letting units on imminent lease expiries.
Flexibility and adaptability is critical to asset management. To take
advantage of increasing demand for well-let retail properties,
several sales were achieved in 2003 and 2004 ahead of the initial
business plan both in terms of timing and sales value. 
In June 2005 the ﬁnal property in the portfolio was sold providing
total returns to all shareholders in the venture at over 56%, higher
than the base business plan produced on initial acquisition.
