 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Halladale Group plc 6
Chief Executive’s review
This has been another year 
of strong growth for Halladale
driven by high levels of activity
and expansion across all key
areas of our business. 
Total transactions in the portfolio under management increased by 31%
to £455m during the year under review and the total portfolio under
management increased by 40% to £632m on a proforma basis at the
year end. Signiﬁcantly, we have expanded our co-investment fund
management activities through the launch of Rynda Property Investors
and just after the year end we announced a well supported fund raising
of £29.1m, net of expenses, our largest to date. 
The year ended coincided with the ﬁfth anniversary of the Company’s
admission to AIM. The growth and transformation of Halladale over that
time, from an initial market capitalisation of just under £10m to almost
£100m today on a fully diluted basis, has been truly remarkable and
illustrates just how far the Company has come. During that period the
Company has consistently increased earnings and implemented a
progressive dividend policy.
These ﬁnancial results reﬂect another year of strong growth in all our 
key performance indicators. We are particularly pleased with signiﬁcant
increases in both proﬁt before tax and the total dividend for the ﬁfth
year in a row since our admission to AIM and we believe this should
continue to justify our rating as an asset backed earnings business. 
The total return on equity (see page 23) on a proforma basis was just 
over 26% for the year.
In the UK, property as an asset class produced a total return of 19.1% 
in the calendar year 2005 driven mainly by capital growth fuelled by
continued strong investor demand. The retail sector’s period of out-
performance has probably come to an end for the time being and we
have made further strategic acquisitions in the ofﬁce sector which we
expect to out-perform over the coming cycle.
Fund raising
On 23 May 2006 we announced our largest fund-raising to date of
£29.1m, net of expenses, through an issue of both new ordinary shares
and convertible loan stock. This brings the total new capital raised in the
past three years to £57.4m net of expenses and takes our fully diluted
market capitalisation to almost £100m. These new funds will be used 
to expand all key areas of operations; asset management, development
and co-investment fund management in terms of both number and 
size of projects.
Our shareholder base has been signiﬁcantly broadened through our
recent fund raisings and I would like to welcome new shareholders 
as well as thanking existing shareholders for their continued support.
Investors who acquired shares in Halladale on admission to AIM in April
2001 and who have held them since then have received a total annual
return of over 28% in the period to 30 April 2006 based on the share
price at that date and dividends paid since admission.
The funds raised in 2004 and 2005 totalling £28.3m net of expenses
enabled us to expand our activities across all fronts. Our co-investment
portfolio has grown from £162m two years ago to £529m at the year
end through our ability to co-invest £13.5m of our own equity alongside
£111m of project equity raised from our co-investment partners. Our
directly owned properties grew from £43m to £103m over the same
period and we have also signiﬁcantly expanded our risk-controlled
development programme. 
Business model
Our focused business model of asset management, development and 
co-investment fund management provides not only a growing and
diversiﬁed revenue stream but also gives us ﬂexibility to react quickly to
changing market conditions. Our total portfolio under management of
£632m at the year end was comprised of £274m in asset management,
£107m in development and £251m in co-investment fund management.
Co-investment continues to be an important part of our business 
model and at the year end accounted for 84% of the total portfolio
under management. 
Our opportunistic approach is also an important part of our business
model and early in 2005 we took the decision that the retail sector’s
period of out-performance was coming to an end and we began to
realign the portfolio to focus more on identifying attractive asset
management and development opportunities in the ofﬁce sector. We
have moved quickly and at the year end ofﬁces accounted for 26% of
the total portfolio under management compared to 11% a year earlier.
This former percentage increases to 34% following the acquisition of
Hammersmith Grove immediately after the year end and, on that basis,
but excluding the longer term CReAM and Nelson retail funds, ofﬁces
account for 51% of the remaining portfolio. There has been a similar
geographical re-positioning of our portfolio towards London and the
South East.
At this stage in the cycle the ability to create value will increasingly be
found in more complex asset management and development projects
that require the range of skills and experience that we possess. We 
have signiﬁcantly expanded our risk controlled development programme
which we expect to make a growing contribution to proﬁt in the
medium term. At the year end our development programme had an
estimated value on completion in excess of £500m compared to £260m
the previous year. Our stronger balance sheet permits us to access larger
projects which bring greater economies of scale and our average project
size has increased from £8m last year to £10m at the year end.
Our co-investment fund management activities continued to grow
during the year under review. Both the CReAM and Nelson funds are
now fully invested and at the year end the properties were valued at
£221m and £30m respectively. The launch of these two funds ﬁrmly
established our co-investment asset management platform and in
September last year we created a co-investment fund management
platform through the launch of Rynda Property Investors in which
Halladale has a majority stake. Rynda will operate as an independent 
FSA regulated co-investment manager of real estate funds and expects
to launch its ﬁrst fund later this year. Michael Walton, who has a
minority stake in Rynda, joined in September as Chief Executive of 
Rynda and I extend a warm welcome to Michael and look forward 
to working with him in developing the Rynda business.
“The funds raised in 2004 and
2005 totalling £28.3m net of
expenses enabled us to expand
our activities across all fronts.” Halladale Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7
Prospects
We expect strong investor demand to continue to support the UK
property investment market, although we believe that there is limited
scope for further hardening of yields. Whilst the trend in UK interest
rates may still be upwards, any further increases are likely to be modest.
These factors and the consensus forecast for growth in the UK economy
will provide a stable environment for the UK property market.
Property will therefore remain an attractive asset class, but future
performance will depend even more on the ability to deliver and
implement active asset management and development strategies. 
We believe that the ofﬁce sector, particularly in London and the 
South East, will provide better prospects for rental growth over the 
next couple of years and we continue to identify attractive opportunities
within that sector. Since the year end we have completed our largest
transaction to date with the £74m acquisition of an ofﬁce project in
Hammersmith with one of our existing co-investment joint venture
partners. Our opportunistic approach means we will continue to 
identify opportunities across all sectors, including retail where we 
have accumulated a wealth of experience over the past few years.
The likely introduction of UK REITS in January 2007 will provide
signiﬁcant opportunities for the UK property industry and they should
become an attractive vehicle for the long term ownership of most types
of property assets. REITS should also widen the investor base providing
further support to the property investment market. We are currently
reviewing with our advisors the opportunities for Halladale in a post 
REIT environment. 
To date we have applied our business model entirely on the UK market.
This is now beginning to change. We recently began preparing the
ground work to enable us to identify opportunities in mainland Europe,
both directly and with existing co-investment partners, to expand the
Halladale business model into the continent.
We are very fortunate at Halladale to have the quality and strength 
of our management team and it is upon their commitment and
professionalism that the success of the Company is based. I would like to
thank all of our team members, and our dedicated professional advisors,
for their hard work and valuable contribution to this year’s results.
Looking ahead we have an exciting portfolio of asset management and
development projects and, with our increased ﬁnancial resources as well
as our long established co-investment partners, I remain conﬁdent we
will continue to deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.
David Lockhart
Chief Executive
David Lockhart
Chief Executive
Crown House, Hammersmith
Acquired in February 2006
“Future performance will depend
even more on the ability to
deliver and implement active
asset management and
development strategies.” Asset management
The Group’s asset management strategy
is to identify opportunities to add value
to properties through tenant engineering,
the renewal and review of leases,
refurbishment and redevelopment.
Aldermary House, Queen Street, London EC2 is one example
of the Company’s asset management activities. Halladale
Ventures Ltd., the Group’s joint venture with Bank of
Scotland, acquired the property for £25.6m in November
2005. Aldermary House comprises 45,000 sq. ft. of ofﬁces
arranged over eight ﬂoors with four retail units of 12,000 sq.
ft. on the ground ﬂoor. The passing rent at purchase totalled
£1.64m on a variety of lease terms with 6,000 sq. ft. of
vacant space, and the recently refurbished eighth ﬂoor let 
at a higher rental rate than the rest of the building.
The asset management strategy has been put into action,
with the vacant fourth ﬂoor currently being refurbished to
the same standard as the eighth and a marketing programme
underway to let the space. It is anticipated that a programme
of rolling refurbishment when space becomes vacant will
signiﬁcantly increase the rent roll. The increasing level of
letting interest in the London ofﬁce market should provide
sufﬁcient demand for the completed product.
David Petrie
Stuart Duncan
Alistair McGill
8 Aldermary House, London
Aldermary House, London
9 Newport, Isle of Wight
Newport, Isle of Wight
10 11
Development
The Group adopts a risk-controlled
development strategy, minimising 
up-front cost whilst maximising value.
The strategy involves providing seed
capital for potential developments and
obtaining planning consent and/or 
pre-lettings prior to taking a decision
on whether to proceed either on
balance sheet or in joint venture.
In March 2003 the Company acquired an option to acquire
the bus station at Newport, Isle of Wight from the local bus
operator. The option included the bus station along with an
ofﬁce building let until 2006 to the Inland Revenue at a rent
of £65,000 per annum. The Company negotiated a planning
consent for the demolition of the bus station to construct
four retail units over 60,000 sq. ft. While this planning
process was being pursued pre-letting agreements were
signed with tenants for all four units, namely Hennes,
Peacocks, New Look and Sportsworld. In this way,
development risk had been signiﬁcantly reduced when 
the option to acquire was exercised in April 2005.
Construction of these units is due to complete imminently
and in the interim a forward sale of the completed
development has been agreed with Clerical & Medical at 
a price of £14.2m, further reducing risk. This sale will be
completed on practical completion of the development. 
The ofﬁce building, now vacant, has consent for
refurbishment and conversion to retail use. Negotiations 
are being ﬁnalised with a tenant, whereupon refurbishment
will commence.
Allan Lockhart
Matthew Rhodes
Bryan Sherriff Gravesend Shopping Centre
Grays Shopping Centre, Essex
Erdington Shopping Centre
12 Co-investment fund management
The co-investment fund management
business comprises both co-investment
in funds where Halladale is the asset
manager and the establishment of real
estate co-investment funds through
Rynda. In the former category, both
CReAM and Nelson were fully invested
in the year.
In February 2005 Gray’s Shopping Centre, Essex, became the
third acquisition in the CReAM fund. Acquired for £34.1m at
an initial yield of 6.25%, the Centre provides 215,000 sq. ft.
and comprises 56 tenancies at a typical rental of £42.50 per
sq. ft. Through active management the tone of rents have
been increased to £47.50 and the tenant mix and longevity
of income improved by the introduction of new multiple
tenants to the Centre.
All 12 shopping centres in CReAM provide value
enhancement opportunities through increasing generally
modest rental rates, and increasing lettable areas through
refurbishment. In Nelson, the mixed portfolio of retail, ofﬁce
and industrial properties provide similar opportunities on a
smaller scale. Over the last 12 months acquisition activity has
focussed on increasing the funds’ exposure to the industrial
and ofﬁce sectors.
Michael Walton
Alison Robertson and John McLaughlin
13
