 04 Halladale Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2005
It gives me great pleasure to present
another set of excellent results. For
the year to 30 April 2005 Halladale’s
proﬁt before tax was £3.92m, a 50%
increase on last year’s ﬁgure. 
Undiluted earnings per share grew by 4% and triple net asset
value per share, based on the proforma unaudited balance sheet
on page 50, advanced to 90.91p, an increase of 10% over the
previous year. Further information about these calculations is given
in the Financial Review.
Consistent with our progressive dividend policy the Board is
recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 1.9p per share. Taking into
account the interim dividend of 1p per share paid on 25 February
2005 the total dividend of 2.9p per share will be 38% greater
than last year’s. Subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual
General Meeting the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 20 September
2005 to shareholders on the register on 22 July 2005, with the
exception of the new shares issued in May of this year pursuant 
to the placing and open offer which will not rank for this year’s
ﬁnal dividend.
Chairman’s statement
Cochrane Square, Glasgow Annual Report & Accounts 2005 | Chairman’s Statement 05
On 16 May 2005 we successfully completed our second major
fund raising of £13.4m, net of expenses, through an issue of new
ordinary shares. This followed the completion in May 2004 of our
ﬁrst major fund raising of just under £15m net of expenses. Both
transactions were enthusiastically supported by the market and, 
as a result, Halladale is in a strengthened position to take further
advantage of market opportunities. 
Co-investment fund management continues to be an important
and growing element of our activities. I am particularly pleased
that during the period, two funds were launched – CReAM with
Citigroup and Halladale Nelson Fund targeted at private investors.
We believe that this area of our activities will become of increasing
importance as the Company grows.
On 10 December 2004 I was delighted to welcome Marcus
Hopkins on to the Board as a non-executive director. Marcus, 
an executive director with Moscow Narodny Bank, has already
made a notable contribution to the Board’s deliberations. Archie
Robertson, who had been a non-executive director of Halladale 
for more than 7 years, stood down from the Board on 31 January
2005. Archie was an outstanding colleague and on behalf of
everyone at Halladale I would like to thank him for his wise
counsel over the years.
We take communication with our shareholders very seriously. 
Our AGM which takes place on 13 September 2005 is an
important opportunity for shareholders to meet the Board and to
ask questions. In addition to the formal business of the AGM our
chief executive, David Lockhart, and our property director, Ken
Lindsay, will give a presentation about the Company’s activities. 
I look forward to welcoming as many of you as possible at this
year’s meeting.
The year under review saw a very high level of activity which 
is described in the Chief Executive’s review and the Operational
Review. As always my thanks are due to my Board colleagues 
and to all the Halladale team whose commitment throughout
another dynamic year has been immense. They are what makes 
a difference and I have every conﬁdence that through their
expertise and dedication Halladale will continue to deliver strong
shareholder returns.
Fred Shedden MA LLB
Chairman
“Co-investment fund management continues 
to be an important and growing element of
our activities... We believe that this area of our
activities will become of increasing importance
as the Company grows.”
