 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT / 9
Financial Performance 
The Group delivered a strong set of results achieving growth in all 
service lines on a constant currency basis. Reported revenue for 
the year was £696.6m (2014: £697.3m) and profit before tax and 
non-recurring items was £9.0m (2014: £9.0m).
Revenue and gross profit increased on a constant currency 
basis by 4.0% and 5.3% respectively in the year as a result of 
strong growth in contract recruitment in the UK and contract 
management services in Benelux in particular. The devaluation 
of the euro and the relatively subdued demand for permanent 
recruitment impacted Mainland Europe performance, while 
buoyant markets supported growth in permanent recruitment 
in the USA and UK. Our successful outsourcing operations 
in Vietnam continued to grow organically in the year, and 
elsewhere in Asia our recruitment operations were strengthened 
by the acquisition of Beaumont KK, a boutique permanent 
recruitment business in Japan.
Operating profit before non-recurring items for the year was in 
line with the prior year despite investment in new operations in 
the UK and Asia and a 10% investment in fee-earning headcount 
facilitated by strong cash flows. A non-recurring charge of 
£1.3m was incurred in the year (2013: £2.6m). As previously 
communicated, this mainly related to the strategic review of 
our European telecom outsourcing business (£0.6m) and the 
restructuring of our Norwegian operations (£0.5m). Additional 
charges of £0.2m were incurred in respect of the acquisition of 
Beaumont KK and the closure of the French operations. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share, which excludes the effect of 
non-recurring items, rose by 3.0% to 9.02p (2014: 8.76p). Basic 
earnings per share, after non-recurring costs, rose by 38.2% to 
7.24p (2014: 5.24p).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a 10% increase in the final dividend 
to 2.171 pence per share (2014: 1.974p). This gives a total 
dividend for the year of 3.531 pence per share (2014: 3.212p), 
also up 10%, and reflects the Group’s progressive and sustainable 
dividend policy. Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting on 2 July 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 10 July 
2015 to shareholders on the register as at 19 June 2015.
Strategy
The Group’s strategy is to continue to grow the business through 
a balanced portfolio of services, increasing revenues, profits and 
dividends. This portfolio delivers competitive advantages and 
results in a cash-generative business model, which enables the 
Group to grow organically through investment in new services, 
geographical locations and increasing headcount, as well as 
through earnings-enhancing bolt-on acquisitions.
The core of the Group’s business model is its unique portfolio of 
services, which enables client engagement at each stage of the 
business cycle. This relationship model underpins the delivery of 
resilient financial results, demonstrated during the last downturn, 
and supports returns to shareholders. 
A balance of permanent recruitment, contract recruitment, 
managed solutions and offshore services, combined with 
our market-leading position in technology and executive 
recruitment, provides Harvey Nash with a competitive advantage 
and has ensured significant market share gains. Going forward, 
the Group will continue to invest in its offshore recruitment 
services in Vietnam, providing candidate placement services to 
the business in the USA, UK and parts of Europe.
The Board is recommending a 10% 
increase in the final dividend to 2.171p
“
“
Julie Baddeley 
Chairman 10 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
During the year under review, the Group made the small but 
strategically valuable acquisition of Beaumont KK in Japan, 
thereby consolidating our presence in Japan and leaving us well 
positioned to achieve our strategic growth objectives in the 
broader Asia-Pacific region. 
Governance and Board
Harvey Nash’s robust corporate governance framework underpins 
its performance. I have previously set out my three clear 
priorities for the Board on which we remain firmly focused. 
Our first priority is to debate the strategy for increasing 
shareholder value and to hold the executive team accountable 
for its delivery. Our second priority is to ensure that we have the 
most talented team to execute our strategy and that we plan 
effectively for succession. Our third priority is to ensure that the 
right corporate values are in place, supported by the appropriate 
governance structures and their effective implementation.
This year, as communicated in our remuneration policy, we have 
focused on further aligning executive remuneration structures to 
our objectives of delivering shareholder value and promoting the 
long-term success of the Company. We have done this through 
the implementation of a new performance share plan and the 
enhancement of annual bonus objectives to include individual 
objectives.
We have also further developed our approach to strategic 
planning in the year and challenged ourselves, as a Board, as to 
whether we have the right mechanisms in place to confirm to 
you as shareholders the longer-term viability of the business, 
which we feel we do. 
Tom Crawford and Margot Katz both stepped down from the 
Board in July 2014. Margot continues to work with us on a 
consultancy basis on the next phase of our talent strategies, 
which we consider vital to our continuing growth and success. 
Kevin Thomas, a main board director of FTSE 100-listed business 
Babcock International, joined us in May 2014. He has valuable 
experience of growing businesses of substantial scale both 
organically and through acquisition and has made a significant 
contribution to the development of our strategic planning in 
recent months. 
Further details on the role and effectiveness of the Board are 
provided in my statement in the Corporate Governance section. 
Outlook
The Group has reported growth in underlying revenues and 
profits across all its key service lines on a constant currency basis. 
The softening of permanent recruitment demand experienced in 
the fourth quarter in Mainland Europe appears to have stabilised 
and the macro outlook is currently supportive in the USA, UK, 
Ireland, Vietnam and parts of Mainland Europe, such as Germany 
and Sweden. 
As we look ahead we expect similar trends in trading conditions 
prevailing across our major markets. Sterling remains strong 
in relation to the euro and while this will continue to impact 
reported growth rates, we are nevertheless encouraged by the 
start of the current year. With the level of visibility we have after 
two reporting months, the Board believes the outturn for the 
year will be in line with its expectations.
Julie Baddeley 
Chairman
  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC
STRATEGIC REPORT
