 14 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
FOCUS 
& SCALE 
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
KEY INSIGHTS INTO THE YEAR, FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE ALIST AIR COX
At the same time, they are dealing with 
greater levels of attrition as current 
employees become more confident and 
move jobs. All of this creates a vibrant 
recruitment market, exacerbated as the 
demand for skills in many sectors now 
exceeds supply. This in turn leads to wage 
inflation and skills shortages becoming 
more commonplace around the world.  
This increasing demand for talent enabled 
us to help over a quarter of a million people 
find their next job last year. That is real scale.  
In doing so, we worked with thousands of 
organisations in both the public and private 
sectors to find the skilled people they 
needed to build their businesses. We are 
proud of this and it is what we call Powering 
the World of Work. It is the role we play  
in helping to drive forward the world’s 
businesses, economies and societies  
and it is why we exist as a business.
In this section I’ll provide my view on how  
the Group has performed this year, as well  
as providing an update on the significant 
strategic and operational progress we have 
made over the last twelve months against the 
priorities I set out last year. Finally, I’ll outline 
our long-term goals and our key areas of 
focus for 2016. 
The role we play in the business world and 
society in general is an important one: to  
help our clients find the right person for the  
right job at the right time, and to help our 
candidates find the perfect role to develop 
the next stage of their own career. Every day, 
we work with organisations from the world’s 
largest to the smallest to help them find the 
talent they need to thrive and grow. As the 
global economy has continued to recover, 
many of our clients are investing in growing 
their workforce to cater for the increased 
demand for their products and services.  
 Feedback via ir@hays.com
  Follow Hays Investor 
Relations @haysplcir
  Follow Hays on LinkedIn 
linkedin.com/company/hays
“ We delivered growth in  
all of our core markets 
around the world for the 
first time since 2008.” STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 15
1
CONTINUE TO IMPROVE 
CONSULTANT 
PRODUCTIVITY
PRIORITIES WE SET OUT LAST YEAR:
• Equipping consultants with the  
best tools to make them as effective 
as possible
• Utilising new technologies
• Investing in and developing our 
training and development 
programmes worldwide
PROGRESS WE HAVE MADE IN 2015:
• UK & Ireland productivity up 3%, helping to drive 
£19.6 million
(1)
 divisional profit improvement
• Reinvested in Asia and Germany to drive  
future growth
• Group consultant average headcount, excluding  
the Veredus acquisition, up 9% in the year; 
Group net fees also up 9%
(1)
• Focus on training management and the 
effectiveness of all consultants
2
CONTINUE TO  
INVEST SELECTIVEL Y  
TO DRIVE PROFITABLE 
GROWTH
• Targeted investment in those 
businesses which need additional 
capacity
• Focus resources on those businesses 
best positioned to deliver meaningful 
contribution to the Group’s results 
over the next five years
• Take tough decisions to protect 
profitability where appropriate
• Group consultant closing headcount, excluding 
the Veredus acquisition, increased 9% in the 
year, as we added 464 consultants
• Headcount was targeted at high-growth 
markets such as Asia, up 20%, and Germany,  
up 14%, as we invested in the areas of our 
business which are focused on small- and 
medium-sized clients
3
BUILD SCALE ACROSS 
OUR PLATFORM
• Replicating the strength of our UK, 
Australia and Germany businesses  
in more countries around the world
• Be aggressive with investment in 
markets offering long-term growth 
opportunities such as US and Japan
• Completion of the Veredus acquisition in the US, 
providing the Group with a strong platform for 
growth in the world’s largest recruitment market
• Continued roll-out of our Contracting model to 
capitalise on a macro shift in the skilled 
workforce marketplace. The Veredus acquisition 
added a further 700 contractors
4
CONTINUE TO SEARCH 
FOR WAYS TO IMPROVE 
EFFICIENCY AND 
EFFECTIVENESS
• Build on the technology lead we 
enjoy in the industry
• Research and develop new and 
emerging technology tools and 
routes to market
• Consistent focus on maximising productivity and 
effectiveness of all processes around  
the Group 
• German back-office automation project under 
way to increase efficiencies
• Innovation team continue to research, analyse  
and build relationships with new and emerging 
business models
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
OUR OBJECTIVES
2015 IN REVIEW
This has been another strong year for Hays. 
We grew our net fees by 9%
(1)
 and increased 
operating profit by 25%
(1)
. Our cash 
performance was also strong as we converted 
116% of operating profit into operating cash 
flow, and we ended the year with £31 million 
of net debt, down from £63 million last year. 
Our goal is to eliminate net debt and build a 
net cash position in the business and we are 
well on the way to achieving this. Our strong 
financial performance has allowed us to 
propose to increase our core dividend by  
5%, while also continuing to build our core 
dividend cover towards the goal of 3x 
earnings. Paul Venables, Group Finance 
Director, discusses our financial performance 
in more detail from page 30.
SUPPORTIVE MARKETS
Market conditions remained supportive in the 
vast majority of our 33 countries throughout 
the year. Stable economic conditions and lack 
of major economic shocks reinforced greater 
confidence amongst our clients to replace 
leavers and hire new staff and our candidates 
to move jobs. Importantly, we delivered 
growth in all of our core markets around the 
world for the first time since 2008. 
In the UK & Ireland net fees increased 11%
(1)
  
and our exceptionally strong profit leverage  
in this business allowed us to increase 
operating profits by £19.6 million
(1)
, with 74%
(1)
 
of incremental net fees flowing through into 
incremental profit. In Germany, our largest 
business in profit terms, conditions were 
good throughout the year, and we produced 
another record year for net fees and 
operating profits, which were both up 6%
(1)
.  
In the rest of Europe we delivered strong 
double-digit
(1)
 growth in key businesses such 
as Belgium, Switzerland and Poland. Several 
markets that have been challenging for  
some time, including Spain and Italy, returned 
to strong growth and we continued to grow 
rapidly in France, a market where we are  
now creating real scale as we outperform  
our competitors. 
In Australia we saw a return to growth for the 
first time since 2012 as confidence returned  
to a number of our market segments, 
particularly in the permanent recruitment 
markets in the non-mining states. In Asia 
conditions were good throughout the year,  
as our Japan business grew 15%
(1)
 to deliver  
a record year and Malaysia, Hong Kong and 
China all saw strong double-digit
(1)
 growth.  16 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
In South America, conditions in Brazil 
remained challenging and we took 
appropriate action to reduce our cost base. 
Elsewhere, the rest of our Latin America 
business in Mexico, Chile and Colombia 
continued to deliver excellent growth with net 
fees in each country growing by over 40%
(1)
.
In North America, our Canadian business  
was up 10%
(1)
 but ended the year flat as  
the slowdown in the energy and resources 
industries impacted the overall economy.  
In the USA, however, conditions continued  
to be very positive and we not only grew our 
existing business aggressively, but we also 
took the important step of acquiring Veredus 
Corp., instantly providing us with a significant 
platform to grow further in this attractive 
market. You can read more about this later  
in this section.
CONTINUED PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR 
FINANCIAL GOALS
Back in 2013, we outlined our five-year 
aspirations for the Group. Our financial 
aspirations are to broadly double the Group’s 
operating profit between 2013 and 2018, and 
to diversify from where we earn our profits. 
These aspirations assumed a global 
macroeconomic backdrop of modest but 
consistent overall growth. In today’s world we 
fully expect the occasional minor economic  
shock, but our base case assumes no major 
destabilising event. So far, two years into  
that five-year period, this assumption has 
proved accurate and remains valid. The major 
economies of the world, including our  
own key markets, have returned to steady 
economic growth. Issues clearly remain in the 
Eurozone, Russia and the Middle East, but no 
single event has escalated and derailed the 
solid recovery we continued to enjoy. Against 
this backdrop, we believe we can be very 
successful. Two years into our plan, overall 
trading has been ahead of where we originally 
anticipated and many of our businesses are 
performing better than we planned, although 
the recent strength of sterling has been an 
obvious headwind which has materially 
diluted our translated results. Regardless,  
the business has performed very well on  
a like-for-like basis and we finished 2015  
on track to deliver on our original 2018 
aspirations, even after the currency impact  
to date has been accounted for. Looking 
forward, sterling’s strength means we will 
have to work hard and deliver significantly 
beyond our original expectations to meet  
our five-year goals on a headline basis,  
but we remain confident of doing so.
Throughout the year we have continued  
to focus on improving our consultants’ 
productivity and making selective, rapid 
investment into the business where we see 
further growth opportunities. In the UK we 
increased productivity by 3% and that was a 
key driver in the improved profitability of this 
business. That extra profit gave us the space 
to invest in additional capacity in places such 
as Asia where we see buoyant markets, and  
in Germany where we invested in the areas  
of our business which are focused on small- 
and medium-sized clients.
Excluding the acquisition of Veredus, closing 
Group consultant headcount was up 9%, 
which equated to an addition of 464 new 
consultants to our business. Our approach to 
this investment has been consistent for many 
years now. We appraise each opportunity  
on its own merits and we invest selectively 
where we see clear and compelling 
opportunities for growth. Decisions are taken 
on an office-by-office and a desk-by-desk 
basis, and we review our options constantly. 
The key to our success is our ability to 
understand and interpret trends in local 
markets quickly and accurately. This relies  
on high-quality management teams running 
our businesses around the world, but also 
requires real-time information and data.  
One of the advantages of the front- and 
back-office system investments we 
completed globally in 2012 is the quality, 
accuracy and speed of the data we are able  
to produce to inform rapid decision-making 
based on facts, informing the investment 
decisions we make into the business.
SIGNIFICANT STRATEGIC AND 
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS
We have made significant strategic and 
operational progress in a number of areas  
this year. One of the most important was our 
acquisition, in December 2014, of IT staffing 
company Veredus Corp. in the US. This  
is an important milestone in our strategic 
development, about which you can read more 
on the opposite page. The US is the world’s 
largest recruitment market, the industry there 
is long-established and well understood,  
but significant further growth potential 
undoubtedly remains. I expect the Hays  
US business to quickly become one of the 
largest in our Group, and it immediately  
joins our Future Material Profit Drivers:  
those businesses with the potential to reach 
£10 million of operating profit by 2018.  
Since the acquisition we have successfully 
integrated Veredus into Hays and have 
“ Veredus is delighted to become 
Hays’ partner in the US market. 
We are focused on growing 
and expanding our existing IT 
Contractor and Permanent business 
and introducing new specialisms 
into our branch network.”
DAN RODRIGUEZ
CEO VEREDUS, NOW MD HAYS USA
(1)  LFL (like-for-like) growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
developed an exciting plan for how we will 
create significant value in the US business.  
As part of that plan, the original Veredus 
leadership team are now the Hays US 
leadership team, incorporating the existing 
Hays Life Sciences and Oil & Gas businesses  
in New York and Houston into the Veredus 
network and rebranding the business 
accordingly. Having brought the businesses 
together, our initial priorities are now to  
invest aggressively in building scale in the 
existing IT Contracting business, reinforce  
the permanent recruitment offering and  
add new specialisms across the current 12  
office footprint, starting with Construction  
& Property. Having a meaningful presence in 
the US is also increasingly important to many 
of our global clients and the opportunity to 
leverage existing relationships both into and 
out of the US is significant. We are already 
making excellent progress at leveraging those 
relationships and winning work both in the US 
and around the rest of the world as a result of 
the unique scale and coverage we now have 
in our industry. With an excellent platform  
in place and a world-class management  
team driving the business forward, I am  
very optimistic about the growth we will  
ow be able to deliver from the world’s  
biggest market.
Elsewhere we have made further strategic 
progress rolling out our market-leading IT 
Contracting business, led by experts from our 
Germany business, into other markets where 
we believe the model can be successful, 
including Canada, France and Japan. This 
initiative is designed not only to drive further 
diversification of our global revenue stream 
and profitability, but also to respond to one  
of the macro trends we see in the global 
skilled labour market, namely the increasing 
requirement for temporary and flexible labour 
in a number of disciplines and skill sets to  Initially paying $44 million 
for 80% of the equity of  
the business, Hays has  
the option to acquire the 
remaining 20% from the 
selling shareholders (who 
hold an equivalent option  
to sell) which is first available  
in March 2018. 
Veredus is a pure-play IT staffing company 
that generates c.80% of its net fees from 
Contracting and Temp assignments and 
c.20% from Perm placements. Established in 
2000, it is headquartered in Tampa, Florida, 
with 10 offices focused in the Southeast and 
Midwest of the USA. On acquisition it had  
150 employees and has over 700 contractors 
currently active on assignments with a broad 
range of clients, and in the last year made  
placements across 30 states.
PLACEMENTS  
MADE ACROSS
30
US STATES
HA YS COMPLETED THE 
ACQUISITION OF 80%  
OF VEREDUS CORP .  
IN DECEMBER 2014. 
10
2
80%
20%
OFFICES
 Veredus
 Hays US
VEREDUS NET FEES 
SINCE ACQUISITION
 Temp
 Perm 
148
VEREDUS  
CONSULTANTS
AS AT JUNE 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 17 18 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
complement a client’s permanent workforce. 
Again, I see huge opportunities for us to build 
a much bigger contractor base around the 
world and we have all the components, systems 
and skills to do that in a world-class way. 
In summary, we have enjoyed a successful 
year, delivering strong financial results, 
making profound steps forward in building 
our global network, reinforcing our brand, 
bringing new ideas into the business and 
placing huge numbers of professional talent 
into new and exciting roles around the  
world. However, none of this would have  
been possible without the hard work and 
commitment of the 9,023 people who are 
Hays and I would like to place on record my 
personal thanks to them all for what they 
have delivered this year.
OUR STRATEGY
Our long-term aim is clear: to be the 
undisputed world leader in specialist 
recruitment, and, as we build towards this 
aim, we focus on delivering well-diversified, 
profitable, cash-generative growth.
Back in November 2013 we outlined our  
view of where we believed we could take  
our business from a financial perspective.  
We set out our aspiration to broadly double 
the Group’s operating profit from the  
2013 level of £125 million to £250 million  
by 2018, and to materially diversify the 
make-up of that operating profit by sector 
and geography. Historically, we have 
delivered the majority of our profits from  
our largest three markets in the UK, Australia 
and Germany. Going forward, we are seeking 
to develop a number of other countries  
which we believe can make a meaningful 
contribution to the Group’s financial 
performance. So whilst our big three 
businesses will still be hugely important  
to us and constitute the majority of our  
profits as a Group for some time, our reliance 
on them will be reduced over time and we  
will be able to leverage the opportunities 
available in so many other areas. 
In building this future portfolio, we rigorously 
prioritise our investments. To achieve this,  
we segment our 33 country businesses into 
four categories, thereby helping inform and 
decide where we focus resources, whether 
those be capital or people. Each of these 
categories is described in detail in the boxes 
on pages 20 and 21. 
However, being the world leader in our 
industry is about more than just delivering 
superior financial performance. It also  
means having the best brand in our industry, 
recognised not only for the quality of the 
service we offer our clients and candidates, 
but also for our reputation in the communities 
in which we operate and as thought-leaders 
in the world of work and recruitment. 
There is huge value in a compelling and 
powerful brand and I believe our brand is 
stronger today than ever before. We are  
very publicly recognised in today’s world of 
social media as a leader in our field and now 
benefit from over one million followers on the 
LinkedIn platform, making us the seventeenth 
most followed company in the world and far 
and away the most followed recruiter on this 
important network. Our partnerships with 
Manchester City FC in the English Premier 
League and New York City FC in Major 
League Soccer in the USA take our message 
out to billions of followers around the world 
on a weekly basis, driving very high levels of 
awareness of our business. Our sponsorship 
of the annual CBI conference in the UK puts 
us very publicly at the heart of the business 
debate in Britain. Elsewhere around the  
world, every day we are building our local 
brand to achieve our goal of being the  
most recognised and most highly regarded 
company in our sector. Each of these 
initiatives is designed to raise awareness  
of our business and position us as the  
go-to specialist recruiter in every one of  
our local markets.
Equally, being the world leader means  
having world-class services to offer clients, 
and evolving those services as clients’  
needs evolve. Equipping our consultants  
with state-of-the-art tools so that they  
may build better networks and solve our 
clients’ problems faster and better than our 
competitors is also key to success in our 
industry. That’s why we invested significantly 
throughout the recession to build new front- 
and back-office systems and databases 
across the Group, creating and owning the 
intellectual property of these tools along the 
way. As the economy and trading conditions 
have improved, we are now seeing the 
benefits of those investments crystallise  
in the form of a more effective business, 
improving consultant productivity, raising 
service levels and gaining market share as  
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
MORE THAN
1,000
JOBS FILLED EVERY 
WORKING DAY
LAST YEAR
36m
HITS ON HAYS 
WEBSITES
PER ANNUM STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 19
our people utilise the technology and tools  
at their disposal. Building those systems  
was challenging. Now they are complete,  
I believe it will be difficult for others to copy 
our approach, thereby providing us a clear 
competitive advantage in the industry. 
However, we do not stand still and we are 
already exploring new tools and ideas to 
enhance our business further. 
Ultimately though, Hays is a people business. 
Our people are and will always be at the very 
heart of what we do. To be the world leader 
we must therefore be the company that the 
best people in our industry aspire to work  
for. We believe in a meritocratic culture  
and a rewards system that promotes high 
performance. We believe in promoting from 
within, developing our own future managers 
and leaders and offering them the chance to 
build their entire career at Hays. We have also 
invested to develop the best training and 
development programmes available, both to 
make our consultants the experts they need 
to be in their own field, but also to ensure we 
have a strong pipeline of local management 
developing throughout the business so that 
we may capitalise on all the opportunities  
we see around the world. 
Building a strong community within Hays in 
which all our people are actively engaged in 
the development of the business is important  
to me as I believe such engagement fosters  
a powerful culture. To gauge our progress in 
this area, we survey our people every year for 
their input and I was delighted that this year 
80% of our colleagues globally gave us their 
feedback on things we might do better. The 
leadership teams around the world use these 
insights to continually refine our people 
policies to ensure we remain an employer of 
choice. We are now seeing public recognition 
for our efforts in this area and I am proud our 
company has won a number of People and 
Culture Awards over the last year, including 
Best Places to Work in 2015 in the UK and 
Employer of Choice for Gender Equality 2014 
in Australia.
AREAS OF FOCUS TO DELIVER  
OUR OBJECTIVES
•  T o deliver on our aspiration of £250 million  
operating profit by 2018, and materially  
diversify the geographic mix of those profits 
versus prior peak
•  T o tactically invest in our business to capitalise 
on all market opportunities and support long-
term growth in structurally opening markets
•  T o hire, retain, train and develop the best and 
most productive people in our industry. Focus 
on culture, quality of leadership and reward
•  T o develop Hays as the thought-leading 
authority on the world of work and the most 
respected specialist recruitment brand in each 
of our markets
•  T o continue to equip and respond to new  
and emerging media, technologies and routes 
to market
OUR STRATEGY
T o be the 
undisputed world 
leader in specialist 
recruitment
T o deliver  
well-diversified, 
profitable and  
cash-generative  
growth 20 | Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
TODAY 
& TOMORROW
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
These markets are large, well-established businesses with  
world-class management teams. The UK and Australia are  
more mature recruitment markets and we are the market-leading 
specialist recruiter in each, having been operating in these markets 
for over 40 years. By contrast in Germany, the specialist recruitment 
market is far less mature. We estimate that only around 20% of  
all skilled jobs are filled by a third-party agency such as Hays and  
so the key driver in this market is less about the macroeconomy and  
more about the growth in the proportion of the recruitment market  
which is outsourced.
We are clear in our need to build more of the businesses within 
Hays which can materially contribute to the Group’s overall 
earnings. This increased diversification reduces our reliance on  
a small number of countries and will add more resilience to our 
earnings through the various stages of the economic cycle. 
Each of these businesses is capable of delivering £10 million 
operating profit by 2018. In each case, we will be investing to 
rapidly build headcount, office capacity and introduce new 
specialisms where and when appropriate.
As market conditions remain favourable and continue  
to show gradual and steady improvement, our focus and 
priorities remain largely unchanged as we enter year three 
of our five-year plan. 
5 YEARS TODAY
CURRENT CORE PROFIT DRIVERS 
(Germany, Australia and the UK)
FUTURE MATERIAL PROFIT DRIVERS
(France, Japan, US, Canada) STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 | 21
LOOKING FORWARD TO 2016
We will continue to focus on maximising  
the productivity and effectiveness of our 
consultant teams around the world. That 
means focusing on hiring the best people  
and training them to be the best in the 
industry. Furthermore, we will then equip 
them with the latest tools and technology 
they need to gain a competitive edge and  
to fulfil their true potential.
We will continue to invest in additional 
capacity where we see strong demand and 
today that means investment across large 
parts of the network. Our objective is to 
capitalise both on short-term market 
opportunities as well as investing to support 
the long-term growth and development  
of the Group. We intend to make further 
progress in rapidly developing a number  
of our emergent businesses across Europe, 
the Americas and Asia so that they might 
complement our larger businesses in the  
UK, Germany and Australia. However,  
the economic cycle influences our business, 
so we continually monitor conditions in  
our markets to be able to respond quickly  
if conditions become unfavourable. Our 
advanced systems provide us real-time 
information that allows us to be better 
informed than ever before when making 
these decisions.
We will continue to promote our brand 
through multiple routes globally so that  
we become the go-to expert when clients  
are looking to recruit professional and 
technical staff. Digital engagement is a key 
part of this strategy and we will continue  
to invest in and innovate with tools and 
platforms to build our reputation in our  
client and candidate marketplaces. 
Finally, we will continue to research and 
respond to new and emerging technologies 
and business models which we believe can 
have an impact on our business. We have  
our own in-house Innovation team, reporting 
to me, who continually assess this evolving 
world so that we spot opportunities early in 
their lifecycle. Through this process, we have 
already engaged with many interesting ideas 
and I expect this to continue as we seek to 
remain at the forefront of these innovations. 
Overall, we have positioned the business to 
capitalise on a growing market and we are 
now seeing the fruits of our earlier work as 
markets move steadily forward. We have a 
highly engaged and motivated team around 
the world, a world-class client network, 
unprecedented access to the candidates our 
clients need and the tools and capabilities  
to ensure we reinforce our market-leading 
position. While risks obviously exist in the 
world, our business is strong and dynamic 
and I am optimistic about our prospects for 
2016 and beyond.
Several of our country businesses, while individually not delivering 
levels of profitability which are material at the Group level, are critical  
to the success of our network. They play a role to serve global clients  
in local markets, provide us access to candidates and deliver attractive 
returns given the scale of their local markets. We will continue to run 
these businesses to grow profits ahead of net fees.
In some cases, these businesses are already contributing in  
a meaningful way to Group earnings, with profits at £5 million 
or more, but these markets, by their nature, will always be of 
limited size. Others have the potential to reach that level in  
the near term or move beyond it. We also see other cases  
such as Latin America or China, which can become very large 
businesses on a long-term basis. Our investment approach will 
be driven by the long-term opportunity to reach significant 
scale where we see the potential as well as the short-term need 
to deliver profits along the way.
5–10 YEARS ONGOING
MEANINGFUL CONTRIBUTORS
(New Zealand, Switzerland, Belgium, China, Mexico, Brazil)
NETWORK CRITICAL
(20 other countries)
