 helical bar plc 2013
06
Helical’s strategy 
•  Our investment portfolio includes high yielding multi-let 
retail located throughout the UK and offices in central 
London. Through intensive property management we 
have been able to grow income and enhance capital 
values. An analysis of the properties we hold demonstrates 
how we have managed to circumvent the well documented 
pitfalls in the UK’s retail sector to maintain positive rental 
returns. We can now look forward to capital growth for 
good quality secondary stock as those investors seeking 
better yields now move up the risk curve. The balance  
of our investment portfolio has increased its weighting 
towards central London office investments where we have 
concentrated our efforts over the last two years and where 
our main focus now lies. 
•  Having created stable positive income returns the 
Company is now able to progress with a number of new 
developments and refurbishments where by carrying  
out land assembly, planning and in some cases securing 
pre-letting or pre-funding, we can create significant returns 
with little capital or balance-sheet exposure. It should be 
noted that projects at 200 Aldersgate EC1, in partnership 
with the Deutsche Pfandbriefbank, and the Brickfields, 
White City W12 development, acting as development 
partner with Aviva Investors, have involved limited use 
of your Company’s capital. We shall remain focussed  
on central London schemes for the length of the current 
market cycle. 
•  In previous reports I have referred to Helical Retail’s success 
in securing a number of foodstore-led developments 
throughout the Midlands and the South East. Acting with 
our long standing partners at Oswin Developments, we 
have now optioned or have exclusivity over eight projects 
with further deals in the pipeline. Despite recent reports of 
retrenchment by the major foodstore companies, our 
outstanding relationships and reputation have enabled  
us to obtain sites in those areas still under-serviced and  
in demand from foodstore retailers. The projects will be 
pre-sold to investment partners. 
•  It would be wrong not to acknowledge our position as 
one of the UK’s leading developers of retirement villages. 
These take the form of 150+ units set around a clubhouse 
in parkland settings for sale to those over 55 years of age. 
With the benefit of advantageous bank facilities, we have 
embarked on three new projects comprising of 467 units 
on sites near Horsham in Sussex, Stratford-upon-Avon in 
Warwickshire and Exeter in Devon. Success at Liphook 
(151 units), despite the challenges of the last five years, 
gives us the encouragement to continue with this specialist 
sector in partnership with Urban Renaissance Villages. 
•  We remain grateful to our supportive bankers who have 
proved ever-willing to respond positively and quickly to 
requests we put to them. This enables us to be quick to 
take advantage of opportunities that arise. You will note 
that we have successfully increased our banking facilities 
during the year, extending their maturity dates. This 
process will continue and we will look to further extend 
and diversify our sources of funding.
Our market
Our path through the next three years becomes clearer  
by the day. We will maintain our high yielding investment 
portfolio and look to reinvest cash receipts from sales of our 
trading and development stock into accretive acquisitions 
with a strong emphasis on central London. I regard our 
successful investment in foodstore development and the 
retirement village business as valuable profit generators 
that sit beside our main focus on the opportunities we see 
in central London. 
Overseas equity continues to be a vital element in today’s 
property market. It is not and never has been our role to 
compete to invest in prime stock, but rather to use our 
expertise to create prime investments for sale into a strong 
market. We are confident that given the skills and experience 
we provide and the financial partners with whom we are 
involved, the next few years will see enhanced profits.
It is worth restating the Company’s strategy to re-emphasise 
our focus and differentiate ourselves from our peer group. We 
are a property investment and development company whose 
objective is to maximise shareholder returns by driving income, 
repositioning assets to deliver capital growth and generating 
substantial development gains employing limited amounts of 
our own equity. This simple strategy is once again starting to 
bear fruit and deliver industry outperformance. 
chief executive’s statement  
Silverthorne Road, Battersea 
London SW8  
helical bar plc 2013
chief executive’s statement
07
directors’ report - annual review
We believe that our market is now moving out of recession, 
albeit slowly. Much of the potential overhaul of bad bank 
debt is being taken out by globally financed debt acquisitions 
and vast sums of ‘equity’ continue to seek to invest in the 
UK, safe in the knowledge that we enjoy the ‘rule of law’ 
and a steady state economy.
Helical’s progress 
We were delighted to announce last week the letting  
of 80,909 sq ft to FTI Consulting at 200 Aldersgate which 
triggers our entitlement to a profit share. In similar vein  
we have announced the sale of the Brickfields, White City 
project where we have acted as development partner on 
behalf of Aviva. Once this sale contract has been completed, 
we will be entitled to a profit share, the details of which we 
will be able to disclose at that time. We anticipate both the 
above transactions will create substantial profits to be 
recognised in the accounts for the year to 31 March 2014.
At Mitre Square, EC3, we have commenced demolition 
and, following granting of planning consent at Barts Square, 
EC1, we are preparing for development in January 2015. 
We are also hopeful of submitting a planning application  
in July for the Hammersmith Town Hall project in partnership 
with Grainger, and anticipate consent for our major 
refurbishment at 207-211 Old Street at “Silicon Roundabout” 
prior to the end of the year. 
As has already been announced we have completed our 
major Polish retail development at Gliwice where we maintain 
a 50% interest with a pre-agreed take-out in approximately 
18 months’ time by our partner, clients of Standard Life. 
Summary 
Happily the ‘Helical Model’ is alive and well. My thanks to 
the Helical team, our investment partners, our bankers, the 
many property agents and corporate advisors with whom 
we have the pleasure of dealing with day to day. Last but 
by no means least, our thanks to you, our shareholders, for 
your support.
Michael Slade,  
Chief Executive
23 May 2013
