 chief executive’s 
statement
In the year to 31 March 2012 we continued the process of 
rebalancing our portfolio between income producing investment 
assets and non-income producing development sites. In the 
economic environment we ﬁ nd ourselves in today, we believe this 
will help deliver long term shareholder value through combining 
the twin drivers of an investment portfolio generating signiﬁ cant 
cash surpluses and a London centric development programme. 
Applied together, these portfolios offer defensive qualities much 
needed in this uncertain world, whilst providing the potential 
to deliver outperformance in the future. 
Strategy 
Our prime objective is to maximise returns for shareholders through 
income returns, development and trading proﬁ ts and capital growth. 
Our strategy for achieving this is to: 
 yielding retail, ofﬁ ce and industrial property which offers considerable 
opportunity to increase income and enhance capital values through 
proactive asset management and skilful stock selection;
 creating positive net cash ﬂ ow for the business which exceeds our net 
ﬁ nancing costs, administration costs and dividends; 
 refurbishments, creating value through land assembly, planning and 
implementation in the ofﬁ ce, residential, mixed use and retail sectors;
 situations; and,
 retirement villages. 
Progress
During the year we made signiﬁ cant progress in each of these key strategic 
areas. We have sold £50m of investment assets and £26m of development 
sites, recovered £16m of cash through the sale of 50 per cent of our retail 
development at Gliwice in Poland and re-cycled these proceeds in over 
£100m of investment assets, increasing our annualised net rental income 
from £23m to circa £26m. We have also obtained over 850,000 sq ft of 
planning permissions at our ofﬁ ce development at Mitre Square, our 
foodstore scheme at Fulham Wharf, our retail schemes at Shirley and 
Tyseley and our industrial scheme at Stockport and for over 850 residential 
units at Fulham Wharf, Shirley and our retirement villages at Great Alne, 
Milton and Exeter. More recently, we have submitted a planning application 
for our major mixed use scheme at Barts Square and intend to submit a 
planning application in respect of our scheme at White City later this summer.
The impact of this activity is clearly illustrated in the annual results for the 
year to 31 March 2012, with a 29% increase in the Group’s share of net 
rental income to £22.9m (2011: £17.8m), a development proﬁ t of £0.7m 
(2011: loss of £16.6m), a net gain on the sale and revaluation of the 
investment portfolio of £3.3m (2011: £7.5m) and a pre-tax proﬁ t of £7.4m 
(2011: loss of £6.3m). EPRA earnings per share were 3.4p (2011: loss of 
6.4p). This return to proﬁ tability encourages us to propose an increased 
ﬁ nal dividend of 3.40p (2011: 3.15p) per share, up 8% on 2011, taking 
the total dividend to 5.15p (2011: 4.90p). Our property portfolio delivered 
an ungeared total return of 5.6% (2011: 2.7%). EPRA net asset value per 
share fell marginally to 250p (2011: 253p).
Future
We live in a world where the news from Europe is dominating the 
headlines with daily warnings of the potential consequences of the impact 
of a collapsing Eurozone economy. Whatever the end result, there will be 
 Group is well placed to ride out the storm that seems to be gathering. 
We have performed strongly over the year and the continued effort to 
address the imbalance in our business by increasing the Group’s weighting 
 return to proﬁ tability. Our ability to outperform our peers in the future will 
depend upon the strength of our development pipeline and it is that part 
of the business that offers the greatest opportunity for growth. We are 
increasingly redirecting our hard earned equity to London and the South-
East, markets which currently represent 47% of our portfolio. The next 
few years are all about Central London and happily that is where we hold 
our most exciting assets. The prospects for substantial proﬁ ts in respect 
of our London and retail developments provide cause for optimism for 
the future performance of the Group.
Michael Slade, 
Chief Executive
20 June 2012
05
directors report- review helical bar plc 2012
