 “Helical aims to deliver market leading returns by  
acquiring higher yielding investment properties,  
applying a rigorous approach to asset management  
and deploying limited equity through a variety of  
different structures into development situations  
which have the potential to be highly profitable. ”
The first half of the financial year was dominated by the outstanding success 
of the projects at White City, London W12 and at 200 Aldersgate, London 
EC1. It would be wrong not to reflect on these results as both schemes 
illustrate the ‘helical model’ of applying limited equity and hard work to create 
exceptional performance. To remind shareholders, these two projects resulted 
in a net cash receipt of £62m, an outstanding return on a total of £1.5m 
invested.
We acquired the 10 acre site south of the A40 at White City in joint venture 
with Aviva and worked with them over a number of years helping to create 
the vision for the Mayor’s Opportunity Area, resulting in a resolution to grant 
planning permission for a 1.5m sq ft mixed use development. The site was 
sold to Imperial College in September 2013 crystallising the substantial profit 
payment. 
The second significant transaction involved us working with Deutsche 
Pfandbriefbank on the refurbishment and letting of the 367 ,000 sq ft office 
and retail building at 200 Aldersgate, EC1. Last summer we completed the 
final letting and oversaw the sale of the building for £228m and, as a result, 
helical received a substantial profit-share payment. My fellow directors 
Gerald Kaye and Matthew Bonning-Snook deserve recognition for these 
outstanding achievements. 
Shareholders will recall that at the time of the 2012 accounts we undertook 
to augment our investment portfolio to 75% of the Company’s assets, 
reducing the development/risk element of the business to 25%. I am pleased 
to report that we have achieved what we set out to do. 
We also undertook at that time to divide the investment portfolio between 
investments in the regions (shopping centres, retail parks and logistics) 
chosen for high yields and income, and assets in central London to provide 
capital growth. I am pleased to report that by recycling our capital and taking 
advantage of the successful issue of an £80m retail bond last summer, we 
have been able to increase the size of our share of the property portfolio to 
over £800m. We have maintained the high yields from our regional 
investments and achieved an 18.6% capital gain from our investment assets 
in central London. 
18.6
%
CAPITAL GAIN ON LONDON ASSETS
396,000 sQ Ft
SIz E OF REFURBISh ED OFFICES  
AT Th E BOWER, EC1
94 aPaRtM eNts
FIRST PhASE OF BARTS SQUARE
£62m
NET CASh RECEIPTS ON Wh ITE CITy, 
W12 AND 200 ALDERSGATE, EC1
75:25
RATIO OF INVESTMENT 
TO DEVELOPMENT
£80m
RETAIL BOND ISSUE
We are now turning our attention to our current development portfolio as it is these 
schemes, together with continuing capital gains in our investments that will drive 
the Company forward in the future. We are particularly pleased to have agreed a 
joint venture with h OOPP (healthcare of Ontario Pension Plan) to develop 
speculatively the 273,000 sq ft office scheme in EC3, now renamed Creechurch 
Place. We are beginning construction this summer for delivery in Q4 2016. 
We, in partnership with Crosstree Real Estate Partners, are now on site at our 
396,000 sq ft office refurbishment at The Bower, Old Street, EC1. Further 
developments at Maple house, City Road, EC1 and Clifton Street, EC2 complete 
our programme in the burgeoning Shoreditch tech belt. At Barts Square, EC1, our 
scheme in partnership with Baupost, we are on track to start the first phase of 94 
apartments in January 2015. Subsequent phases comprise two office buildings 
of 202,000 sq ft and 23,500 sq ft, a further 121 apartments and retail/A3.
Working jointly with Grainger, we have received planning consent for a mixed 
use development adjoining hammersmith Town hall that comprises offices 
for the Council, 196 apartments, a cinema, retail, restaurant and café space. 
At the same time, work on our 220,000 sq ft pre-let and pre-sold 
development for Scottish Power in Glasgow proceeds to plan. We live in a 
time of short supply in most sectors yet the improving economy is giving rise 
to strong occupational demand. helical has been fortunate in timing its 
development acquisitions; all are well structured financially and we look 
forward to delivering and monetising these projects over the next few years.  
We have had an outstanding year and are exactly where we planned to be. 
No doubt there will be a few blips along the way, but we remain positive on 
the prospects for our market place. We continue to focus on London offices 
and high yielding regional property for the investment portfolio whilst building 
out the London development programme. We remain highly focused, highly 
incentivised and confident in our prospects over the next two to three years.
It remains for me to thank all the members of the team for their outstanding 
efforts and also to express my thanks to the members of the Board, our bankers, 
the many professionals who have advised us so well and to you our shareholders. 
michael Slade 
Chief Executive
19 June 2014
16
HELICAL BAR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
ChIeF exeCUtI ve’s state MeNt BARTS SQUARE
LONDON EC1
 
INv ESTmENT/DEv ELOPmENT
INTRODUCTION FINaNCIal s Ta TemeNT s sTR a Teg IC Rep ORT INves TOR INFORma TION g OveRNaNCe INTRODUCTION
heLICaL BaR PLC report & accounts 2014
17 CHURCHgATE  
& l EE HOUSE
MANCh ESTER
250,000 sQ Ft
OFFICES ACROSS  
2 BUILDINGS 
OVER 8 FLOORS
the g roup’s main objective is to maximise groW th  
in assets from increases in investment portfolio 
values and from retained earnings from other 
property related activities.
INv ESTmENT
heLICaL BaR PLC report & accounts 2014
18 STRATEGIC REPORT
objectives, strategy and business model 20
Key performance indicators 22
investment portfolio overview 24
investment portfolio statistics 26
principal investment properties 28
development programme  32
Financial review 38
principal risks report 42
corporate responsibility 45
INTRODUCTION FINaNCIal s Ta TemeNT s sTR a Teg IC Rep ORT INves TOR INFORma TION g OveRNaNCe Strategic report
heLICaL BaR PLC report & accounts 2014
19
