 As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I have 
reported in detail on page 45 of this Annual Report 
regarding the present and proposed future constitution 
of your Board of Directors. Most importantly, I have 
asked Michael Slade to consider continuing in his 
current position as Chief Executive for a further ﬁ ve 
years and am pleased that he has indicated his 
willingness and enthusiasm to do so. 
In June 2011, Duncan Walker was promoted to the Board 
as an executive director and Michael O’Donnell was 
appointed as an independent non-executive director. 
Having been on the Board of Helical for almost 19 years, 
I intend to step down at the conclusion of this year’s 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). My fellow long-
serving non-executive directors, Antony Beevor and 
Wilf Weeks will also step down at the same time. I would 
very much like to thank them for their substantial 
contribution to your Company for many years and 
particularly to Antony for his masterful management 
of the Audit Committee. 
Nigel McNair Scott, Finance Director, has been on the 
Board of the Company since 1985 and has also indicated 
that he wishes to step down as Finance Director from 
the conclusion of  the AGM. I am, however, pleased 
that Nigel has accepted the request of the Nominations 
Committee to continue his close involvement with the 
Group and be appointed Chairman following my 
retirement. Tim Murphy, who joined the Group in 1994 
and has worked alongside Nigel since then, will be 
promoted to Finance Director immediately following 
the AGM. 
As Nigel will not be regarded as independent, the 
Committee determined that it is essential that the 
Board be strengthened by the appointment of two 
new independent non-executive directors. After an 
extensive search using external consultants, and 
having interviewed a number of strong candidates, 
I am pleased that we have identiﬁ ed two excellent 
individuals in Richard Gillingwater, who will become 
the Board’s Senior Independent Director, and will 
serve on all the Board’s committees, and Richard 
Grant, who will become the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and will serve on the other two 
committees. Both individuals will be appointed to the 
Board immediately following the AGM. 
It has been a privilege to serve on this exceptional 
Company’s Board for almost 19 years and to be 
Chairman for seven years. I shall be sad to relinquish 
my association with such a dynamic and successful 
team of people after so long. However, I believe that 
the Group, the executives and the portfolio of 
investment properties and developments are poised 
for a successful future which should be enhanced 
by a refreshed Board and a new Chairman.
Giles Weaver, 
Chairman
20 June 2012
chairman’s statement
Helical Bar plc returned to proﬁ tability in the year to 31 March 2012 
and is poised to continue its upwards progress, with a number of 
exciting development schemes approaching realisation, backed up by 
sound ﬁ nances and an investment portfolio generating a signiﬁ cant 
surplus over costs. This has been achieved against a background 
of signiﬁ cant economic uncertainty and I am conﬁ dent that the Group 
is well prepared for the strong headwinds approaching from Europe. 
Michael Slade reports fully on the results for the year and the 
prospects for the Group in his Chief Executive’s Statement. 
04
directors report - review helical bar plc 2012
