 50
 
HELICAL BAR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
 
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s review
Dear Shareholder,
This Annual Report reflects on another excellent set of results for Helical Bar 
building on the record profits of last year. Our London portfolio has produced 
a valuation increase of 27 .0% and is now valued at £370m (47% of the total 
investment portfolio). The switch within our regional portfolio from shopping 
centres to industrial assets, mainly distribution warehouses and offices, helps 
to maintain the balance between a high yielding investment portfolio and a 
London investment and development programme providing both capital and 
rental growth.
Our Governance
The Board is accountable to the Group’s shareholders for good corporate 
governance. We believe in applying the highest principals of corporate 
governance and have complied throughout the year with the principles set 
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, except in relation to those 
matters referred to on page 54. 
Major Decisions
The Board meeting agendas during the year contained many issues including 
consideration and approval of the £100m Convertible Bond, a review of the 
Group’s strategy, succession issues, and Board changes including the departure 
of investment director, Jack Pitman, and the appointment of a new 
Remuneration Committee Chairman, Michael O’Donnell.
Convertible Bond 
In June 2014, the Company issued £100m of Convertible Bonds with a 4% 
coupon repayable in 2019 or, subject to certain conditions, convertible at the 
option of bondholders into ordinary shares, unless a cash settlement option is 
exercised by the Company. The initial conversion price has been set at 
£4.9694 per share, representing a premium of 35% above the price on the 
day of issue and a premium of 59% above the Company’s previously 
reported EPRA net asset value per share. 
Annual Strategy Review 
In September 2014, the Company undertook its annual strategy review 
examining the economic, geopolitical, societal and environmental risks 
affecting the business. This review reaffirmed the Company’s principal 
objective of combining investment and development activity to ensure 
maximum shareholder returns whilst managing risks appropriately. The 
development pipeline is larger than competitors/peers with the use of deal 
structures with joint venture parties and third party finance in order to secure 
superior returns at the same time as mitigating risk. The investment portfolio 
has two main purposes, to provide an income stream to cover overheads, 
finance costs and dividends and to produce above average growth over the 
economic cycle. 
Board Composition and Evaluation 
In order that we may implement our strategy successfully the Board annually 
evaluates its own performance and that of its committees and directors. As 
Helical is currently a FTSE Small Cap company the Code does not require 
the Company to undertake this evaluation process externally. This evaluation 
concluded that the Board and its committees continue to operate effectively. 
In February 2015 Andrew Gulliford stepped down as Chairman and member 
of the Remuneration Committee and as member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committee. He was replaced as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee by Michael O’Donnell, who has been on the board 
and a member of that Committee since 2011. Andrew Gulliford remains on 
the board as a non-executive director and continues to advise the Board on 
property matters. Also in February 2015 Jack Pitman, an executive director 
since 2007 , stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 31 
March 2015. We thank him for his significant contribution to the Company 
over the last 14 years. He played an important part in the growth of the 
investment portfolio and in our retirement village business and we wish him 
every success in his new venture.
Investor Relations
We have an extensive programme of meetings and presentations with 
shareholders throughout the year with the majority of these taking place in 
the periods following our annual and half year results. In addition, we took 
part in an investor conference in January 2015 where we met with a number 
of financial institutions. The Chief Executive, Michael Slade, and the Finance 
Director, Tim Murphy, attend the majority of meetings with an investment 
director, Duncan Walker, and a development director, Gerald Kaye or Matthew 
Bonning-Snook, also attending. The Senior Independent Director, Richard 
Gillingwater, is available to meet shareholders and attended one investor 
meeting during the year. I am also available to meet shareholders if they wish 
to raise any matters with me. 
The following pages describe in greater detail our governance structure and 
the work of the Board and its Committees.
Nigel McNair Scott 
Chairman
12 June 2015
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
