 Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015 08
Chairman’s introduction
We have achieved further 
volume growth despite 
relatively challenging market 
conditions in some countries, 
with strong underlying 
profit progress.
Sir David Naish dl 
Non-Executive Chairman Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015 09
Strategic delivery
I am pleased to report that continued 
strong strategic progress was achieved 
during 2015. A new meat processing 
facility for Woolworths near Melbourne 
in Victoria, operated by the joint venture 
company, commenced production on time 
in September 2015, with the store roll out 
plan across Victoria and South Australia 
now completed.
The major investment program undertaken 
at the Group’s UK facilities in Huntingdon, 
involving a significant extension of the 
site’s processing and packing capacity, the 
addition of a further production unit and 
the streamlining and modernisation of the 
complete facility has been successfully 
completed, with the new facilities now 
bedded in and generating improved 
operational performances more rapidly 
than previously expected.
Group performance and 
shareholder returns
Further volume growth was achieved 
during 2015, notwithstanding relatively 
challenging market conditions in some 
countries. Strong underlying profit 
progress was achieved despite a material 
impact on our profitability reported 
in Sterling from adverse exchange 
translation movements.
The Group’s net income in 2015 at £20.0m 
was 10.8% ahead of 2014 (£18.1m) and 
20.7% higher in constant currency terms. 
Basic earnings per share at 27.5p were 
10% ahead of last year. Hilton continued to 
generate significant free cash flow during 
2015, which enabled the Group to move 
into a positive £12.7m net cash position by 
the year end (as compared with net debt of 
£7.7m at the end of 2014).
Over the last two years we have made 
major new investments to secure 
the Group’s future growth potential. 
The principal items of expenditure 
involved the redevelopment of the 
Group’s facilities in Huntingdon to enable 
the planned UK volume increases for 
Tesco and a re-investment programme 
at Vasteras in Sweden. Both projects 
were successfully completed in early 
2015, providing additional capacity and 
delivering considerable improvements in 
operational efficiency.
The Board considers that the Group’s 
progressive dividend policy maintained 
since flotation remains appropriate, 
given both the further strategic progress 
achieved in 2015 and Hilton’s continuing 
strong level of cash generation. With 
the proposed final dividend of 1.3p per 
ordinary share for 2015, total dividends 
paid in respect of 2015 will have increased 
by 9.8%, as compared to last year.
Our Board
The Board is responsible for the long term 
success of the Group and to achieve this 
it contains an appropriate mix of skills and 
depth and a range of practical business 
experience, which is available to support 
and guide our management teams across 
a wide range of countries.
After nine years valuable service 
Chris Marsh has stepped down as 
a Non-Executive Director and I will 
be stepping down as Non-Executive 
Chairman following the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, with Colin Smith 
assuming this role. We are delighted to 
welcome Christine Cross and John Worby 
as new Non-Executive Directors, both 
of whom will bring a wide range of skills 
and expertise to our business.
I have been privileged to serve on the 
Board since just before our Company’s 
flotation in 2007, for the last six years as 
Non-Executive Chairman. I am pleased 
to confirm that there is well planned 
succession in the Group. I will continue 
to assist the Group on agricultural matters 
and would like to take this opportunity to 
thank my colleagues on the Board for their 
support, counsel and expertise over the six 
years of my chairmanship. I am confident 
that under the leadership of Colin Smith 
and Robert Watson the Group will continue 
to make excellent progress.
Annual General Meeting
This year’s AGM will be held at the Old 
Bridge Hotel, 1 High Street, Huntingdon, 
Cambridgeshire PE29 3TQ on 25 May 
2016 at noon and my colleagues and I very 
much look forward to seeing those of you 
who are able to attend.
Sir David Naish DL
Non-Executive Chairman
30 March 2016
