 Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015 14
Chief Executive’s summary continued
Performance overview
Our business comprises three 
separate operating segments:
Western Europe
Operating profit of £32.1m (2014: £27.1m)  
on turnover of £1,020.7m (2014: £1,016.8m)
This operating segment covers the Group’s 
businesses in the UK, Ireland, Holland, 
Sweden and Denmark. Volume growth 
of 5.1% was achieved in 2015, principally 
reflecting volume growth in the UK, Ireland 
and Holland, driven mainly by gaining 
an increased share of our customers’ 
business in the UK, with the recently 
expanded meat processing capacity, 
and the introduction of new product lines 
in each country. Volumes in Denmark 
were reduced with consumer spending 
remaining under continuing pressure and 
in Sweden volumes remained relatively 
steady. Turnover grew by only 0.4%, 
but by 7.7% in constant currency terms. 
The redevelopment of the Huntingdon 
site was completed in 2015. This was a 
complex project involving the re-equipping 
and re-alignment of the site and the 
addition of a further production area 
whilst working around a live production 
environment with the highest customer 
service levels needing to be maintained 
throughout the process. The re-equipping 
of the Vasteras site in Sweden faced 
similar challenges. Both projects were 
executed successfully, with improved 
operational efficiencies being realised 
in addition to the capacity expansion. 
In the UK the operational efficiencies were 
realised somewhat earlier than predicted 
and with a lower level of start-up costs.
Central Europe
Operating profit of £2.3m (2014: £2.4m) 
on turnover of £74.1m (2014: £82.2m)
In Central Europe the Group’s meat 
packing business, based at Tychy in 
Poland, supplies customers across Central 
Europe, from Hungary to the Baltics. 
This multi-customer business supplies 
Ahold stores in Czech Republic and 
Slovakia, Tesco stores in Hungary, Czech 
Republic, Poland and Slovakia and Rimi 
stores in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. 
Volumes increased by 7.8%, but in very 
competitive market conditions with 
consumer down-trading, unfavourable 
exchange rate movements of 10.0% 
and lower raw material prices, turnover 
decreased by 9.7%.
Central costs and other
Net operating cost £5.4m (2014: £3.4m)
This segment includes our share of the 
management fee earned by our joint 
venture with Woolworths of £1.2m 
(2014: £1.3m), start-up and support costs 
in connection with the joint venture of 
£1.2m (2014: £0.9m) and central costs of 
£5.4m (2014: £3.8m).
In Australia the Group is involved in a 
joint venture with Woolworths, under 
which it earns a fifty per cent share of 
the agreed management fees charged by 
the joint venture company to Woolworths 
for operating certain Woolworths’ meat 
processing and packing plants, based on 
the volume of retail packed meat delivered 
to Woolworths’ stores. The joint venture 
company is currently responsible for 
the operation of Woolworths’ Western 
Australian meat processing centre in 
Bunbury, its Queensland meat processing 
centre in Brisbane and the new purpose 
built retail packing facility near Melbourne 
in Victoria which started production in 
September 2015. Start-up costs inevitably 
peak in the period immediately before 
a new production facility such as that 
in Melbourne comes on stream and 
then subsequently fall away.
