 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 23 HUNTERS PROPERTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
Board of Directors
GOVERNANCE
KEVIN HOLLINRAKE
Chairman  
Kevin Hollinrake co-founded Hunters in 1992, acting as Managing Director from this date until February 
2015, when he became Chairman. Prior to this, he worked at Prudential Property Services from 1987 
to 1991 as an Area Manager. As Managing Director of the Group he oversaw its expansion from a 
single branch to a national estate agency business. In 2008 Kevin founded Vizzihome, a market research 
business, which was later sold to Zoopla. He was also one of the founders of RealCube, the company 
which designed the software package used by the Company and the Franchisees and which is now 
wholly owned by Hunters. He is currently the Member of Parliament for Thirsk and Malton.
HARRY HILL
Chief Executive    
Harry Hill was appointed as Chief Executive in March 2015. He has extensive property experience 
having worked in the industry for over 40 years. He was previously Chief Executive and Chairman of 
Countrywide plc and was also Chairman of Rightmove plc, which today holds the position as the leading 
property listing portal in the UK.
GLYNIS FREW
Managing Director 
Glynis Frew joined Hunters in 1999 and was promoted from Group Operations Director to Managing 
Director in February 2015. Prior to joining Hunters, Glynis held a number of roles with blue chip 
companies such as United Biscuits and PepsiCo, where she specialised in sales and training. Her 
roles within Walkers Snack Foods (Division of PepsiCo) included running key accounts, training and 
integrating sales forces. 
ED JONES
Chief Financial Officer 
Ed Jones joined Hunters as Finance Director in 2006. Prior to this, from 2000 to 2006 
he was an executive at Williams de Broë PLC in corporate broking where he acted for 
a number of publicly listed companies, advising on flotations, takeovers, mergers and 
acquisitions, fund raising and regulatory compliance. Ed qualified as a member of the 
Securities Institute in 2000 having qualified as an accountant with Price Waterhouse in 
1995. Between 1995 and 2000, Ed worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers within  
its corporate finance division. 
DEAN FIELDING
Non-Executive Director   
Dean Fielding was appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2015. He joined GA 
Property Services in 1995 and became Finance Director of Your Move in 2002. Dean 
subsequently served as Group Finance Director of LSL Property Services plc from 
2004 to 2010. Dean was responsible for the financial strategy and ensuring strong 
financial controls internally.
  Audit Committee 
  Remuneration Committee
Experienced 
management team
The Group’s executive management has a long track record of operating both sales 
and lettings estate agencies, as owners and in developing estate agency franchises. 
This provides in-depth understanding of the skills required to manage an estate 
agency business and the challenges that their franchisees may encounter. 
The Group’s founders have over 20 years’ experience in the UK estate  
agency market and remain involved in the business, providing insight  
and management expertise. 
Harry Hill, who was appointed Chief Executive 
of the Group in March 2015, has extensive 
experience in the estate agency sector, having 
been the Chief Executive and Chairman of 
Countrywide plc from 1986 to 2009, taking it 
through its listing on the London Stock Exchange 
and its £1billion sale to private equity house, 
Apollo Global Management, in 2007. The Group’s 
other senior managers have a diverse range of 
experience drawn from previous roles in the 
UK estate agency market, financial services, and 
global business. The Board believes that this 
combination of skills provides the Group with 
excellent thought leadership and the drive to 
achieve its strategic goals.
Brief biographical details of the Directors and 
senior managers are set out below. STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25 26 HUNTERS PROPERTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
The Directors recognise the importance of sound corporate governance and comply 
with the QCA Corporate Governance Code to the extent appropriate for a 
company of its size. The QCA Corporate Governance Code has been devised by 
the Quoted Companies Alliance and sets out for smaller quoted companies and, in 
particular, AIM companies how they can apply the principles of good governance 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code to their own circumstances. 
An alternative code was proposed because the 
QCA considers the UK Corporate Governance 
Code to be inappropriate to many AIM 
companies, having been written principally 
for larger listed companies. The QCA Code 
states that: “The objective of good corporate 
governance is to deliver growth in long-term 
shareholder value by maintaining a flexible, 
efficient and effective management framework 
within an entrepreneurial environment.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Currently the Board consists of five Directors 
(including the Chairman). The performance of the 
Directors is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
The Board meets at least ten times a year 
and has full and timely access to all relevant 
information to enable it to carry out its duties. 
The Board regularly reviews and oversees the 
Group’s progress towards its goals. The Board 
monitors the implementation of its strategy whilst 
delegating the day-to-day operations to Executive 
Directors and management.
Processes are in place to ensure the Board has the 
access it requires to advisors and the Company 
Secretary to keep up to date with corporate 
governance matters and that applicable rules and 
regulations are followed.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities 
to the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
The Board considers that all the members of 
each committee have the appropriate experience 
required of them without having conflicts 
of interest.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises Dean Fielding 
(Chairman) and Harry Hill. The Audit Committee 
meets at least twice a year and is responsible for 
ensuring that the financial performance of the 
Company is properly reported on and monitored, 
including reviews of the annual and interim 
accounts, results announcements, internal control 
systems and procedures and accounting policies.
The Audit Committee also has responsibility for 
recommending the appointment of the external 
auditor. In carrying out this responsibility the 
Audit Committee reviews the cost-effectiveness, 
independence and objectivity of the current 
proposed auditors. During the period, the Audit 
Committee appointed Mazars LLP as the new 
auditors for the Group. Mazars LLP have not 
provided any non-audit services to the Group 
save for their role before appointment as 
Independent Reporting Accountant regarding  
the Admission to AIM.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by 
Dean Fielding and its other members are Kevin 
Hollinrake and Harry Hill. The Remuneration 
Committee meet at least twice a year. The 
Remuneration Committee has responsibility for 
determining, within agreed terms of reference, 
the Group’s policy on the remuneration of 
senior executives and specific remuneration 
packages for the Executive Directors. It is also 
responsible for making recommendations as to 
the adoption of share options schemes and long-
term incentive plans for senior executives and for 
grants under such schemes or plans to individual 
senior executives.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are 
disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for ensuring there 
is an adequate system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system 
is designed to mitigate risk to an acceptable 
level rather than eliminate internal control 
risks completely. These internal controls 
include controls over financial, operational and 
compliance risk factors. The Board is satisfied that 
the current level of internal control meets the 
needs of the Group and reduces its exposure to 
risk to an appropriate level.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
Clear financial reporting procedures have been 
established which ensure the Board have access 
to reliable and timely financial reports on a weekly 
and monthly basis. Financial reporting includes 
monitoring performance against budget and prior 
year results as well as cashflow forecasts.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Employees – the Group believes in equal 
opportunities and people’s development. The 
Group appoints based entirely on merit regardless 
of gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation, 
religion, nationality, ethnicity or disability. Where 
employees become disabled, the Group looks 
where possible to adjust the environment to 
accommodate the same. 
Communication – the Group sees 
communication as key with its customers and that 
philosophy extends from the way we deal with 
both employees and our franchise network. We 
hold regular meetings and conferences, provide 
regular updates through our intranet underpinning 
developments and encourage the sharing of 
information and help. 
Anti-bribery policy – the Group operates a 
zero tolerance towards bribery.
Legislative Compliance – the Group 
conforms with all relevant legislation and codes of 
and best practice and this is monitored regularly 
by the Board. The Group appreciates the social 
and environmental impact its decisions can make 
and considers these as part of its decision making 
process. The Group takes the overall impact that 
it has long-term very seriously.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company maintains open communications 
with its Shareholders and provides up to date 
information through market announcements 
and website postings. Copies of all results and 
announcements are available online on the 
Company website, www.hunters.com/investor-
relations. Investor presentations are also available 
for potential and current shareholders to attend.
Shareholders receive 21 days’ notice of the Annual 
General Meeting which presents an important 
opportunity for shareholders to meet with the 
Board of Directors. The AGM is set for 10:00am 
17 June 2016 at our Head Office, Apollo House, 
Eboracum Way, York YO31 9JX.
Corporate governance
GOVERNANCE
