 Our strategy is to build a material 
onshore energy company in 
Britain in collaboration with 
the communities in which we 
operate and deliver value for  
all our stakeholders.
We have made good progress 
across the business in the 
nine months to 31 December 
2015 against a difficult oil price 
environment for our production 
business. Gas prices have 
also been impacted during the 
period, although less so than  
oil, with UK gas prices still  
more than double US prices. 
As previously announced, we implemented 
a cost saving programme early in the period, 
and the effects are demonstrated in these 
results, with operating costs of approximately 
$24.6/boe (12 months ended 31 March 
2015: $34.6/boe), excluding reorganisation 
costs of £2.1 million which were incurred 
in the period to 31 December 2015. We 
remain focused on our operating cost per 
barrel in this oil price environment, being 
on both absolute costs and maintaining 
our production volumes. Given the actions 
we have already taken, further significant 
reductions in operating costs per barrel  
will be more challenging. 
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had 
cash of £28.6 million and net debt of £73.3 
million. IGas continues to employ a rolling 
hedging programme in order to plan and 
protect its cash flows. At the period end, the 
Company had 390,000 barrels hedged in the 
12 month period to December 2016 – at an 
average floor price of approximately $62 per 
barrel. The mark to market value of hedges 
at 31 December 2015 was £6.6 million.  
The Company will continue to add to its 
hedge position as market conditions allow.
The impact of the prolonged oil price 
decline, with an average realised price of  
$58.9/boe (12 months ended 31 March 
2015: $94/boe), and the considerably lower 
forward oil price curve has resulted in 
impairment charges of £48.1 million (net of 
tax) in the nine months ended 31 December 
2015, of which £8.9 million (net of tax) 
relates to producing assets. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
16    |    IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts Nine months to 31 December 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
INCREASED FLEXIBILITY IN CHALLENGING MARKETS Effi  cient development
of potenti al resources
Following receipt of all the necessary 
consents and approvals from the DECC the 
INEOS farm-out deal completed on 7 May 
2015 with a consideration of £30 million 
cash and a gross carried work programme  
of up to £138 million.
Production assets
Average net production in the nine months 
to 31 December 2015 was 2,570 boepd  
(12 months ended 31 March 2015:  
2,737 boepd).
In terms of maintaining and growing 
production we have been focused on 
activities such as sidetracks, workovers, 
water injection and gas monetisation 
projects as well as further progress on our 
digital oilfield initiative. We continue to 
monitor and evaluate our water injection 
pilots and to consider methods to increase 
injection rates and improve reservoir 
management to enhance production and 
recovery. These initiatives have contributed 
to reserves replacement of over 150% 
based on production of 0.71mmboe in the 
period. In the current oil price environment 
expenditure will be focused on maintaining 
and increasing production from existing 
sites, thereby reducing operating cost per 
barrel and improving pay back periods and 
returns on capital employed. 
We will continue to move forward other 
projects to final investment decision, so 
that when the commodity prices and the 
corporate economic hurdles are met,  
we can advance these projects. 
Appraisal assets
The industry is working towards a goal of 
establishing commercial production of shale 
gas by the end of the decade. The Company 
continues to make progress against its five 
year shale development plan and further 
details are outlined in the operational 
review. In the period we completed the 
acquisition of 110km
2
 of 3D seismic in the 
North West, without incident, on time and 
on budget. This data is currently being 
processed and interpreted and is likely to  
be completed in the third quarter of 2016.
support and engagement
and development assets
Local and nati onal 
Opti misati on of producing
Business model
Strategy
Sustainable  
long term  
value  
creation 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL & STRATEGY 
Our strategy is to build a material onshore energy company in 
Britain in collaboration with the communities in which we operate 
and deliver value for all our stakeholders.
Operating responsibly – highest standards of health, safety  
and environmental protection see page 04 >
Disciplined asset portfolio management see page 06 >
Sound financial management and maintenance of Balance Sheet 
strength for a sustainable business see page 08 >
Developing the wider potential in our shale portfolio through  
a programme to appraise and develop prospective areas 
see page 07 >
Locally – integral part of economic development and 
community. Nationally – contributing to future energy security 
as part of the mix see page 05 >
Reserves and production growth through optimisation  
of conventional assets and development of shale resources  
see page 09 >
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
WWW.IGASPLC.COM
IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts Nine months to 31 December 2015    |    17
nati onal engagement
Local and 
producti on growth
Reserves and 
Developing
shale port olio
Operati ng responsibly
management
port olio management
Sound fi nancial
Disciplined asset The planning application for two exploration 
wells at the Springs Road site was validated 
by the local council on 30 October 2015.
There followed a period of consultation both 
with the public and a number of statutory 
consultees and since the period end the 
council has written to IGas to seek further 
information on a range of matters. Once 
we have submitted that information, a 
further consultation period will take place 
before determination of the application, 
which we expect in the third quarter 2016, 
subject to any further request for additional 
information. Also, since the period end  
we have been granted permission to  
drill Groundwater Monitoring Boreholes  
at Springs Road and these have now  
been installed.
We are in the process of identifying a number 
of sites for further shale appraisal drilling and 
hydraulic fracturing of wells to determine 
flow rates and assess commerciality.
14
th
 Onshore Licensing Round
IGas has been offered a total of 17 blocks 
across three basins representing a total 
additional gross area of c. 270,000 acres; 
IGas’ net interest is c. 163,000 acres. These 
new licences will be formally awarded in 
April 2016 and further increase our oil and 
gas operations onshore in Britain whilst 
extending our acreage position in the 
strategically important shale basins. We are 
also particularly pleased to be strengthening 
the relationships with our existing partners 
Total, ENGIE E&P and Egdon.
Following the formal award of these blocks, 
IGas will have a total of c. 876,000 net 
acres under licence. The work programmes 
associated with the blocks will be phased 
and are subject to finalisation with the OGA. 
Under these work programmes, IGas has 
a minimum committed spend in the first 
two years of approximately £3 million net 
to IGas, focused on geological studies and 
seismic assessments. This will be followed by 
exploration drilling, targeting the prospective 
hydrocarbon bearing formations. 
Political and regulatory update
In August 2015, IGas welcomed the 
announcement by Government that 
gives greater clarity on the timetable for 
determining planning decisions for onshore 
oil and gas exploration and underlines 
Government’s commitment to get shale  
gas exploration underway in the UK. 
Following this, in November 2015, the 
Secretary of State for Communities and 
Local Government announced that he would 
decide the Cuadrilla Lancashire appeals  
after the Planning Inspector has conducted 
the Public Inquiry and produced a report  
and recommendations. The Public Inquiry  
is nearing conclusion.
In the Autumn Statement, the Chancellor 
announced that 10% of tax revenues  
from shale gas developments, up to a 
maximum of £10 million per site, will be 
put into a Shale Wealth Fund which could 
deliver up to £1 billion of investment 
in local communities hosting shale gas 
developments over the next 25 years.  
This provides a considerable opportunity 
in addition to the 1% of production 
revenues that shale gas companies have 
already committed to put back into local 
communities if shale gas exploration  
proves successful.
In December 2015, MPs voted to allow 
fracking for shale gas 1,200m below national 
parks and other protected sites. The new 
regulations permit drilling from outside the 
protected areas. The amending Order to 
allow groundwater monitoring boreholes  
to be granted under Permitted Development 
Rights bringing the onshore oil and gas 
industry in line with water companies  
and other industries which drill dozens  
of boreholes each year is likely to come  
into force later this year.
The fourth and final report of Lord Smith’s 
Task Force on Shale Gas was published in 
December 2015 and recommended fracking 
should get underway to establish how much 
shale gas there is in the UK. The report calls 
on the government and local communities  
to allow initial exploratory wells and 
concluded that it had found that, with  
the right regulations in place, fracking  
could take place safely.
International assets disposal programme
Further progress has been made on the 
rationalisation of non-core international 
assets with the disposal and relinquishment 
of licences in Australia and the majority 
of the Indonesian interests, which both 
completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. 
Health and safety
Health and safety is of vital importance 
throughout the business in providing the 
highest level of protection to our employees, 
contractors, visitors, neighbours and the 
environment. Whilst we are keeping a 
tight control on costs there has been no 
compromise on the integrity and safety  
of our operations as demonstrated by  
zero Lost Time Incidents in the period.
2015 was our ninth consecutive year of 
receiving a Gold ROSPA Award, validating our 
commitment to the prevention of accidents 
in the work place by having robust policies 
and procedures, risk assessments, accident 
incident investigation and lessons learned.
IGas in the community
We continue to embrace the need to 
communicate effectively with local 
communities. Two years ago the industry 
launched its own community engagement 
charter which specifies that developers need 
to engage as early as possible, well before 
any planning applications are submitted. 
Over the course of the last nine months we 
have been working hard in the communities 
where we operate, engaging in a host of 
community events and initiatives. 
We have distributed over 37,000 leaflets and 
letters across our acreage, held 4 community 
exhibitions, presented at parish council 
meetings, engaged with local MPs, spoken 
at roundtable events and visited a number 
of projects that have benefited from our 
community fund.
In October 2015 we announced the  
launch of the 2016 round of our IGas Energy 
Community Fund. Further information about 
the fund and its recipients can be found in 
the sustainable and responsible business  
section of this Report.
STRATEGIC REPORT
18    |    IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts Nine months to 31 December 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT CONTINUED People
I would like to thank each and every one 
of our employees for their hard work and 
commitment in what has been an extremely 
challenging environment. 
In a difficult operating environment it is even 
more important to recognise and reward 
our employee’s contribution. Although the 
Company did not make cash bonuses in 
respect of 2015, the Board approved a new 
Management Retention Plan in November 
2015, resulting in the award of options 
over IGas Energy plc ordinary shares to all 
permanent employees. Subject to remaining 
in employment, these awards vest in 
December 2016 with a further 12 month 
retention period before they may be sold.
Outlook
In the production business, we will continue 
to seek to mitigate the underlying decline 
and for the year ended 31 December 2016 
we expect production to be in the range of 
2,500 – 2,700 boepd. We have reduced our 
capital expenditure in light of the current 
oil price environment and 2016 capital 
expenditure is expected to be less than  
$10 million.
The Round 14 Licences are expected to be 
issued by the OGA in April 2016, increasing 
our acreage by more than 25% to over 
1m acres (gross) and the next step will be 
to undertake desktop analysis to refine 
our proposed work programmes. There 
is significant opportunity across our shale 
asset port olio and we are making progress 
against our five year plan including the 
submission of planning applications in North 
Nottinghamshire and the interpretation and 
processing of the 3D seismic acquisition in 
the North West. At the same time we are 
pursuing sites across the acreage and starting 
preparation work on scoping reports.
2016 is likely to be another challenging year 
for the industry. With commodity prices still 
remaining at low levels, our focus remains 
on retaining balance sheet strength and 
preserving cash. Whilst the steps we have 
taken to manage costs and improve the 
strength of the balance sheet have helped 
the business in this environment, we must 
remain focused on cost effective, value 
adding activity both on the production  
and appraisal assets.
Stephen Bowler
Chief Executive Officer
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
WWW.IGASPLC.COM
IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts Nine months to 31 December 2015    |    19
I would like to thank each and 
every one of our employees for 
their hard work and commitment 
in what has been an extremely 
challenging environment.
