 Q. What are Ibstock’s key strengths?
A.  One of Ibstock’s most important strengths 
is its people. We have committed and loyal 
teams in all of our businesses who tend to 
develop long term careers with us. Our 
strong market leading positions and focus 
on quality and customer service are 
fundamental to the success of the 
business. We have well invested factories 
and depots strategically located to serve 
their respective markets and our clay 
businesses have access to long term clay 
reserves. We work hard to innovate both in 
products and customer service and we 
employ the latest technology in our 
production and sales operations. These 
strengths support the growing market 
share we have in all our key markets.
Q.  What is your value proposition 
and can you describe your 
typical customer?
A.  Potential customers should choose 
Ibstock Group companies because 
our current customers tell us, through 
our extensive independent surveys and 
also face to face, that they choose us 
because we have the best product range 
and we are the easiest supplier (in our 
scope of supply) to do business with.
  I can’t really describe a typical customer 
because it depends on whom you 
consider to be the customer. We see the 
initial specifier as a customer as well as 
each element of the construction process 
covering perhaps: main contractor, 
sub-contractor, builders’ merchant, 
client and so on. So our customer could 
be a self-builder wanting assistance with 
brick matching via his chosen merchant 
or architect, through to major listed 
house builders, builders’ merchants or 
organisations such as Network Rail.
I am excited by 
the increased 
opportunity we now 
have to develop 
Ibstock, working 
with the incredibly 
committed teams 
that we have in 
the businesses.
IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 12
Q&A with 
Wayne Sheppard, 
CEO
IBSTOCK_04_QandA_with_CEO_DRF2.indd   12 12/04/2016   13:12 Q.  How have the competitive 
environment and your market 
share evolved?
A.  Our markets have always been highly 
competitive and will continue to be so. 
New customer and technical or 
regulatory challenges impacting the 
competitive environment are always 
present which we take in our stride – 
BIM (Building Information Modelling) 
capability would be an example. All our 
businesses maintain strong and growing 
market share positions. This is driven by 
offering the best value proposition, that 
is, cost with due consideration for the 
value of the service, product support 
and consistency provided throughout 
the specification to the project 
completion process.
Q.  What pleased you most about this 
year’s (2015) results?
A.  I was pleased that we achieved strong 
sales growth in both the UK and US and 
that all businesses performed to plan. 
The pricing strength in Glen-Gery was 
particularly pleasing as was the above 
target cash performance and thus lower 
year end debt position for the Group. 
Q.  What could you have done better?
A.  Considering all the work necessary to 
manage a successful IPO process I am 
particularly pleased that we did not lose 
our focus on delivering strong 2015 results. 
Clearly one can always do better but 
there is nothing in the 2015 performance 
that did not meet our expectations. 
Q.  What difference has the IPO made 
to your business?
A.  The IPO has been very motivating for 
the management teams and all of our 
employees. This is largely because after 
a considerable period of uncertainty over 
the potential disposal of the Group under 
its previous public company ownership, 
we are now able to invest for growth. With 
supportive market fundamentals in all our 
geographies and development projects 
underway in both clay and concrete there 
is a feeling of excitement in the business. 
Our enthusiasm is shared by the investors 
we meet and it is always a pleasure to 
talk to people interested in our business, 
we are very proud of it!
Q.  How will you integrate the UK and 
US businesses?
A.  Glen-Gery was part of the original 
Ibstock plc before separation under 
CRH ownership. In view of this shared 
history, cultures are similar and a strong 
architectural bias is evident in both 
businesses. The Glen-Gery team are 
delighted to be back with Ibstock since 
the start of 2015 following separation 
in 1999. We are already sharing best 
practice in Marketing, Technical, 
Procurement and Engineering. We wish 
to ensure that our people see that 
careers can once again develop across 
the UK and US as they did in the past. 
I think it is important to mention that we 
believe in maintaining the strong brands 
within the Group and Glen-Gery with 
its 125-year history will always trade as 
Glen-Gery under Ibstock plc ownership.
Q.  How does the strategy influence 
day to day management and 
priorities of the different operating 
companies within Ibstock?
A.  Our focus on customer service influences 
the way we manage the business. For 
example, the production planning team in 
the UK brick company report to the Sales 
Director. Our desire to service the customer 
impacts all aspects of the business 
including innovation and obviously our 
investment in information technology, 
a good example of this being our sales 
teams managing much of their customer 
exchange live with smart technology.
Q.  What are your plans for 
acquisitions?
A.  We continue to look for enhancing 
acquisitions that will add to the UK 
product portfolio and strengthen our 
footprint in the US. We have worked 
hard to deliver current levels of 
performance so our performance 
hurdles are set high. We are thus 
looking for quality businesses with 
good growth prospects or businesses 
offering significant synergies and ideally 
both. We will be taking a disciplined 
approach, testing returns available 
from acquisitions against enhanced 
cash returns for shareholders. 
Q.  How does sustainability fit into 
your strategy?
A.  Sustainability is very important 
to Ibstock. We have employed a 
sustainability manager since 1995 
and issued annual sustainability 
reports since 1999; the first in our 
industry to do so. Our UK businesses 
are accredited to ISO 14001, the 
Environmental Management standard, 
with the exception of our specials 
business which will be accredited 
by the end of the year. Ibstock and 
Forticrete have also achieved ISO 6001 
Responsible Sourcing compliance. 
All our UK businesses are compliant 
with the Energy Management Standard 
ISO 50001 or the Energy Savings 
Opportunity Scheme (“ESOS”). In 
addition to this we continue to invest in 
energy efficiency, CO
2 reduction, we 
generate electricity from landfill gas and 
recycle raw materials such as process 
water to minimise waste and cost.
Q.  What should we expect from 
Ibstock in the next 12 months?
A.  We will be focusing strongly on our 
markets and customer service as 
usual. We will be managing the major 
investment projects we have underway 
in UK concrete and clay; our main 
office site at Ibstock is now a major 
construction site! We anticipate another 
year of progress in all our businesses.
Q.  What excites you most about the 
business as you move forward?
A.  I am excited by the increased opportunity 
we now have to develop Ibstock, working 
with the incredibly committed teams that 
we have in the businesses. Ibstock is 
a legacy business with a near 200-year 
history and it is a privilege to steward 
it for a period before passing on the 
Company in an improved position to the 
next generation. This is why succession 
planning is such an important area to me.
Q.  What will Ibstock look like in 
five years’ time?
A.  Ibstock will continue to be regarded as 
a highly customer driven business but 
with an improved asset base in the UK 
following the investments being made in 
both clay and concrete and potentially 
with a broader product portfolio through 
acquisition. In the US, I have a similar view.
Q.  What do you see as the key benefits 
of the significant capital investment 
that has been made?
A.  Ibstock’s investment at Leicester 
provides 100 million bricks per year of 
additional capacity into a market with 
strong growth fundamentals. It will be 
the newest and most efficient factory 
in Europe. The factory has been 
designed to be the most cost efficient 
and flexible stock brick facility in the 
Ibstock portfolio. Along with previous 
investments this project ensures that 
Ibstock continues to maintain an 
industry-leading factory portfolio. Our 
investment in Forticrete is particularly 
exciting as it will add yet another 
innovative product to the roof tile 
range. Forticrete has a strong history 
of innovation and this new product 
will continue that tradition. 
Q.  What are the key risks to your 
growth plans?
A.  The strength of underlying demand 
in the UK and US new home markets 
is key. With supportive demand 
fundamentals in all our businesses 
and, in particular, strong Government 
support for new build housing in the UK, 
the outlook looks encouraging. Clearly 
anything impacting on homebuyer and, 
for RMI markets, home owner sentiment 
would be a concern. 
IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 OVERVIEW 13
OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
IBSTOCK_04_QandA_with_CEO_DRF2.indd   13 12/04/2016   13:12 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 14
IBSTOCK_05_Strategy_Divider_DRF2.indd   14 12/04/2016   13:11 The new brick factory under 
construction at Ibstock.
 qOur markets 
Page 16
 qOur business model 
Page 18
 qOur strategy 
Page 22
 q How our KPIs help us 
maintain strategic focus 
Page 24
 q K e y r e so u r c e s 
and relationships 
Page 26
 q How we manage 
our risks 
Page 30
The power 
to realise 
potential
STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE 15
IBSTOCK_05_Strategy_Divider_DRF2.indd   15 12/04/2016   13:11
