 This is our first Annual Report as a public 
company and I am delighted to welcome 
you as a shareholder.
2015 was an eventful year for the Group. 
In February, Ibstock Group businesses 
comprising Forticrete, Supreme, Ibstock 
Brick and Glen-Gery were acquired by 
Bain Capital and left the CRH plc group. 
Then, in October 2015, the Group 
completed a successful listing on the 
London Stock Exchange, marking its 
return to the public markets. I joined the 
Ibstock Board in September 2015 at 
what was, and continues to be, an 
exciting time for the Ibstock Group. 
The Group is a family of brands of building 
products with a diversified range of clay 
and concrete products. We are a leading 
manufacturer of clay bricks and concrete 
products with operations in both the UK 
and the US.
The market and our strategy
The macroeconomic environment, 
and specifically demand for new homes, 
has a significant influence on the Group’s 
performance. Housing market fundamentals 
in both of our key geographies today are 
positive, and I believe the Group is well 
positioned to benefit from the continuing 
demand for new housing.
The Group’s strategy of growth through 
investment and product innovation, 
together with expansion of its existing 
product portfolios, has been at the heart of 
its success over many years. This approach 
continues today with a significant new brick 
plant under construction in Leicestershire 
and a new roof tile manufacturing plant 
being built at Leighton Buzzard. 
Our strategy is discussed in more detail 
on pages 22 and 23.
The Ibstock plc 
Group is a family 
of building 
products brands, 
and a leading 
manufacturer of a 
diversified range of 
clay and concrete 
products.
IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 10
Chairman’s 
Statement
IBSTOCK_03_Chairmans_Statement_DRF2.indd   10 12/04/2016   13:12 Our results
The Group’s results for the period were in 
line with expectations set at the time of the 
IPO in October 2015. As discussed in more 
detail in the CFO’s report, the statutory 
results for the Group cover the period from 
November 2014 to the end of 2015 and 
include only 10 months’ trading results from 
the operating businesses. Consequently, 
to give shareholders a more representative 
understanding of the Group’s underlying 
performance we are also presenting our 
adjusted results for the 2015 and 2014 
calendar years, so that a clearer picture 
of our business can be seen on a full 
12-month basis with comparatives.
Reported statutory revenue was 
£358,331,000 and the statutory profit after 
taxation for the period was £101,574,000, 
with EPS of 35.2p. Our adjusted results 
for the 12-month period saw revenue of 
£413,828,000 and adjusted EBITDA of 
£107,014,000.
We have proposed a final dividend of 4.4p 
per share, which is in line with our dividend 
policy of distributing 40 to 50% of our 
adjusted profit after tax over a business cycle.
Board and corporate governance
Our business is run by an extremely 
experienced management team – Wayne 
Sheppard, Chief Executive Officer and 
Kevin Sims, Chief Financial Officer, have a 
combined experience of nearly 50 years 
with the Group and more within the 
Building Products market. Becoming a 
listed business has necessitated some 
changes in the way we work, the formation 
of the plc Board with strong independent 
Directors being central to these changes. 
As Chairman, one of my prime 
responsibilities is setting and maintaining 
the appropriate Corporate Governance 
framework and ensuring the business puts 
a qualified group of Non-Executive Directors 
together to support this. I am delighted to 
have had three such Directors bring their 
experience to the Board to date.
Jonathan Nicholls, our Senior Independent 
Director, brings over 17 years of experience 
at senior management or director level of 
businesses, including those in brick 
manufacturing, roofing and construction, 
and property development. He is a 
chartered accountant and now serves as 
our Audit Committee Chairman. Jonathan’s 
experience within the sector and financial 
background will be of great value to us. 
Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer 
Chammard both joined the Group in 
February 2015 after Bain Capital acquired 
the Ibstock group of businesses. Michel 
serves as managing director of Bain Capital 
Europe LLC, a role he has held for over 
12 years, and Matthias currently serves as a 
Principal of Bain Capital Europe LLC, a role 
he has held for over four years. Both bring 
great experience as Non-Executive Directors 
to a range of companies, which will continue 
to bring insight and support to the Group as 
we grow as a public company. 
I am grateful to Jonathan, Michel and 
Matthias for their invaluable help and 
support in the process that led to our listing 
in October 2015. We are now tackling the 
governance requirements of moving from 
private equity ownership to being a Group 
within the public environment. This is 
discussed in more detail in our Corporate 
Governance Statement on pages 44 to 50.
In February this year, we appointed 
Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella to the 
Board. Both have joined the Board’s 
Remuneration Committee, Audit 
Committee and Nomination Committee, 
and Lynn has become Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. I am delighted 
to welcome Tracey and Lynn to the Board. 
Together they bring a wealth of experience 
that will be of great benefit to Ibstock as 
we continue to develop our business.
The performance of the business, and 
our success, is down to the hard work 
of all of our employees across the Group. 
I wish to thank all of our colleagues for 
their excellent work over this period. 
Outlook
As is usual at this early point in the new 
financial year, we have limited forward 
visibility ahead of the important Spring 
trading period but at this point, our full 
year expectations are unchanged.
In the UK, brick sales into the UK new 
build residential market, and most all 
other sectors including non-residential 
and infrastructure, are growing to 
expectation. Sales via distributors’ yards, 
which mainly flow into the RMI market, 
are being impacted by some destocking. 
However, we anticipate that this situation 
will improve as we progress into the 
Spring. The overall effect is that the UK 
clay business has made a slower start 
to the year than expected. Both our UK 
concrete and US brick businesses 
have made a good start to 2016. 
Market fundamentals remain positive in 
both the UK and US, with demand for 
new housing remaining robust. In the UK, 
the Construction Products Association 
is forecasting further growth in both the 
residential and RMI markets in 2016 
and we are planning for another year 
of progress.
Jamie Pike
Non-Executive Chairman
10 March 2016
Our history
Ibstock plc is headquartered in the village 
of Ibstock in the East Midlands of England, 
where its predecessor entity, Ibstock 
Collieries Ltd, was founded nearly 200 
years ago. Each of the Group’s companies 
are long-established businesses; in 
addition to Ibstock Brick, Glen-Gery has 
been operating since 1890, Forticrete since 
the late 1920s and Supreme since 1979.
Ibstock was first listed on the London 
Stock Exchange in 1963. It acquired 
Glen-Gery in the US in 1979 and the 
UK brick operations were expanded by 
acquiring Tarmac Bricks in 1995, Redland 
Bricks in 1996 and Hepworth Brick in 
1999. Ibstock also acquired certain 
concrete operations in the 1990s.
In 1999, CRH plc acquired Ibstock. Under 
CRH’s ownership, the management of 
Ibstock diversified the clay operations of 
CRH in Great Britain with the acquisition of 
Kevington Building Products Ltd in 2001 and 
Manchester Brick in 2005. The management 
of Ibstock also expanded CRH’s concrete 
products operations in Great Britain with the 
acquisition of Supreme Concrete Ltd and 
Anderton Concrete Products Ltd in 2006 
and 2007 , respectively.
In February 2015, Bain Capital acquired 
Ibstock and its subsidiaries from CRH.
Ibstock re-joined the public markets when 
it listed on the London Stock Exchange in 
October 2015.
IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 OVERVIEW 11
OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
IBSTOCK_03_Chairmans_Statement_DRF2.indd   11 12/04/2016   13:12
