 During the nine months to 
December 2015, we made 
significant progress with 
our high potential shale gas 
acreage, despite the very weak 
oil price environment affecting 
our near term conventional 
production.
Critically, in May 2015, we increased 
our carried shale work programme and 
strengthened the balance sheet by farming 
out part of our acreage to INEOS. Also, early 
in the period we were proactive in reviewing 
our cost base and, as a result, operating 
costs have reduced by over 25%. 
After the farm-out to INEOS, we still operate 
one of the largest net acreage positions in 
the UK, with a very significant total gross 
carried shale work programme amounting 
to up to $255 million at the period end, 
which we operate on behalf of ourselves 
and our partners, Total, ENGIE E&P and 
INEOS. In the summer, we announced our 
five year development plan to evaluate and 
develop our shale gas resources to take them 
forward to commercial production. We have 
delivered against 2015’s planned goals, with 
the completion of a significant 3D seismic 
programme in the North West, on time and 
on budget, and the submission of a planning 
application to drill two wells in North 
Nottinghamshire. 
As regards our producing assets, we 
continue to devote the effort needed to 
maximise economic recovery. The progress 
we have made with the production assets 
has resulted in a 2P reserves replacement of 
over 150% in the period. This is largely due 
to a combination of reduced operating costs, 
better than anticipated field performance 
and our work on maximising economic 
recovery from existing assets.
As a Board we remain focused 
on maintaining flexibility for the 
business in the current oil price 
environment and on continuing 
to deliver against our strategy.
STRATEGIC REPORT
10    |    IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts Nine months to 31 December 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CONTINUING OUR PLAN We were very pleased with the results of 
the 14
th
 Onshore Licensing Round, which has 
further increased our net acreage position 
by 25%, with the addition of 17 blocks. We 
are the largest UK shale player by gross 
acreage. We now have sufficient acreage 
across all of the UK’s shale basins to be well 
placed to make a significant contribution 
to home grown gas production from shale, 
assuming successful commercialisation, and 
potentially to make a significant contribution 
to Britain’s energy needs for the future.
During the period, the Government 
announced that the need to explore and 
test for shale gas is a “national priority” and 
set out to all Local Authorities a number of 
measures that have been implemented to 
ensure the planning system works effectively. 
The Government also committed to 
close all British coal fired power plants 
by 2025, making the UK the first country 
to set an end date for use of this fuel 
for electricity generation. Coal currently 
makes up approximately 30% of UK 
electricity generation. As recognised by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 
gas has around half the emissions of coal, 
and so transitioning to gas is necessary in the 
medium-term to meet the UK’s energy needs 
in the most environmentally responsible 
way. In the UK, gas and renewables can work 
together to replace coal and provide lower 
emissions. We currently rely on gas to meet 
a third of our energy needs and we will 
continue to depend on gas in the medium-
term, especially given that eight out of ten 
homes use gas for heating. 
I firmly believe that shale gas does not 
present a threat to renewables; it is in fact 
complementary. In the US, we have seen 
wind and solar generation and shale gas 
production grow most quickly in those states 
that have fully embraced shale; so that 
together they have contributed to reducing 
emissions and reducing reliance on imports. 
The North Sea is now ever more challenged 
by reduced commodity prices; the UK 
has become a net gas importer, with 
the National Grid estimating that import 
dependency will reach 69% by 2018/2019. 
The UK is increasingly dependent on 
imported gas to meet its needs. This means 
that we are ever more reliant on other 
countries to supply our energy needs, with 
imported energy also being at a greater cost 
to the environment – it takes a lot of energy 
to freeze gas, transport it on a ship and then 
re-gasify it at a British terminal. Imported gas 
is costing around £11 million a day – money 
that is not generating jobs or tax revenues 
in Britain. 
As regards the leadership of the Company, 
in September 2015, we appointed Julian 
Tedder as Chief Financial Officer. His wealth 
of experience in the sector, most recently 
at Tullow Oil where he was part of the 
team that grew the business from being 
an explorer to a significant international oil 
and gas company operating with multiple 
partners, complements IGas’ existing 
leadership very well. I would like to thank  
the executive team, my board colleagues 
and all our employees for everything that 
they have done and continue to do for the 
success of the Company. Finally, my thanks 
go to our shareholders and bondholders,  
for the support you have shown us during 
this turbulent period.
In this protracted period of low oil prices, 
our focus remains on balance sheet strength 
and preserving cash, whilst continuing to 
deliver value adding activity. 
Francis Gugen
Non-executive Chairman
1
 Source: Figure estimated using: DECC, UK Oil and Gas Production and Demand Projections, www.gov.uk/government/uploads/ 
system/uploads/attachment_data/file/482767/OGA_production_projections_-_November_2015.pdf.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
WWW.IGASPLC.COM
IGas Energy plc Annual report and accounts Nine months to 31 December 2015    |    11
