 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8
Alison Cooper Chief Executive
This was another successful year for Imperial, 
one in which we delivered a good underlying 
performance and made further progress with 
our strategic transition. 
I am particularly pleased with the results from our Growth and 
Specialist Brands. Our consistent focus on developing these 
brands continues to improve the contribution they make to the 
quality of the business and they now account for more than half  
of our tobacco net revenue.
From a footprint perspective, we’ve strengthened our delivery in 
Returns Markets and maintained positive momentum in many 
Growth Markets, including in the USA where we significantly 
expanded our operations with a major acquisition. 
This investment, which saw Imperial acquire brands and other 
assets sold as a result of Reynolds American’s purchase of 
Lorillard, was a key highlight of the year.
Our strategic transition remains on track and continues to revolve 
around optimising our brand portfolio and market footprint, 
implementing new ways of working and effectively managing  
cost and cash. 
These initiatives are strengthening the business, improving our 
quality of growth and enhancing our ability to generate sustainable 
shareholder returns.
The underlying results disclosed in this report are adjusted  
to remove the impact on our growth rates of our 2014 stock 
optimisation programme, which reduced the level of stock held  
by distributors, impacting volume, revenue and profit. Underlying 
results provide a clearer view of our 2015 performance against  
last year’s.
On a constant currency basis adjusted operating profit was up by  
7 per cent and we grew adjusted earnings per share by 8 per cent.
Return on invested capital was 11 per cent and we delivered 
another strong dividend increase of 10 per cent.
Our detailed financial results are set out on pages 18-20.
Our Transition Agenda
The work we’re doing to optimise our brand portfolio is at the core 
of our transition agenda.
Our portfolio consists of Growth, Specialist and Portfolio Brands. 
Growth and Specialist Brands are our most important brands and 
our priority is to build their equity and enhance the contribution  
they make to our success. 
Portfolio Brands are a mix of local and regional offerings; some  
will keep adding to our volume and revenue momentum, while 
others are being delisted or migrated into stronger, higher quality 
Growth Brands.
Brand migrations are carefully planned and implemented gradually 
to ensure the highest possible number of consumers complete  
the journey from one brand to another. 
We achieved consistently high consumer retention with the  
21 brand migrations we completed in the year. A number of other 
migrations are currently underway and more will be progressed  
in 2016. 
Managing fewer brands provides focus around the portfolio choices 
we make in markets and this is sharpening our focus on growth 
opportunities as we continue to develop our footprint.
Reducing complexity and streamlining the way we manage our 
brands and markets, combined with the changes we’re making  
to our operating model, supports our cost and cash objectives.
The ongoing review of our operating model involves looking at  
how the business is run on a day-to-day basis and identifying  
areas where we can change systems, processes and structures  
to improve our performance. 
For example, clusters of markets are starting to share support 
services such as HR, Finance and Corporate Affairs which  
is removing duplication and enabling more efficient resource 
allocation. Elsewhere, we are investing in new technologies  
to provide our sales teams with real time information about  
key customers.
Simplifying the way we work is also instilling a more cost- 
conscious culture in the business and provides opportunities  
for margin expansion. 
Our focus on efficiently managing our cost base is balanced by our 
commitment to capital discipline and this drives the effective 
deployment of our cash, which we use to reinvest in the business, 
pay down debt and return to shareholders.
Our approach to building the capabilities and leadership skills  
of our employees is aligned with our strategic transition and we 
continue to invest in training and development to support their 
career progression. 
The ability of our people to make things happen, often in 
challenging circumstances, has kept us on track throughout  
the year and I would like to thank them all for their hard work  
and commitment.
Our transition initiatives are creating a stronger, more agile 
organisation that’s better equipped to respond to changing  
market and consumer dynamics. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Excellent Results from Growth Brands
Our Growth Brands are: Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS,  
West, Fine, News, USA Gold, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and  
Parker & Simpson.
These brands are clustered on five platforms, or ‘brand chassis’. 
Brands that share the same chassis also share the same growth 
initiatives, including innovations and pack designs. This further 
reduces cost and complexity and enables greater consistency  
in the way we manage their performance.
Growth Brands continued to deliver excellent results and again 
outperformed the market, with underlying volumes up 7.1 per cent 
and underlying net revenue up 11.7 per cent. In contrast, market 
volumes in our geographic footprint declined by 3.5 per cent. 
Excluding Iraq and Syria, underlying Growth Brand volumes were 
up 13.9 per cent and net revenue was up by 14.9 per cent. We 
also grew the market share of Growth Brands by 110 basis points 
to 6.6 per cent.
Our total Group tobacco volumes for the year were 285.1 billion 
stick equivalents (2014: 294.4 billion), which includes five billion 
from ITG Brands in the USA since the acquisition was completed 
on 12 June 2015. On an underlying basis volumes declined by 5.6  
per cent, over half of which was as a result of Iraq and Syria. Our 
total Group market share was broadly maintained at 13.3 per cent.
Growth Brands accounted for 50.9 per cent of total Group tobacco 
volumes (145.1 billion stick equivalents), an increase of 640 basis 
points, and 45.8 per cent of overall tobacco net revenue, an 
increase of 320 basis points. 
Brand migrations supported these strong results, with Portfolio 
Brands successfully migrated into a range of Growth Brands 
including Parker & Simpson in Poland and Taiwan, JPS in Spain 
and the UK, West in Spain and News in France.
Investment also supported the performance of Growth Brands, 
including the roll out of new marketing campaigns for JPS, Davidoff 
and Gauloises Blondes. 
Performance highlights included share and volume growth of JPS 
in Australia and the EU and Davidoff gains in Greece and Taiwan. 
Gauloises Blondes contributed to our success in Germany and 
continued to make progress in Algeria, although the impact of Iraq 
and Syria held back the brand’s overall performance.
Momentum slowed for Bastos and Fine due to regulatory and 
pricing pressures but West grew share in Saudi Arabia and Japan, 
and USA Gold made further progress in key focus states. 
We continued to focus on building the presence of Parker & 
Simpson in a number of markets and in the UK another good 
performance from Lambert & Butler Blue continued to strengthen 
the brand franchise.
Underlying Growth from Specialist Brands
Our Specialist Brands are: Style, Gitanes (cigarettes), Golden 
Virginia, Drum, Route 66 (fine cut tobacco), Cohiba, Montecristo, 
Romeo Y Julieta (premium cigars), Backwoods (cigars), Skruf (snus) 
and Rizla (papers).
These brands account for over 11 per cent of our tobacco net 
revenue. As a result of Iraq and Syria, underlying net revenue from 
Specialist Brands was down by 0.7 per cent; excluding this impact, 
underlying net revenue increased by 2.9 per cent.
Performance highlights included further share and volume growth 
from Skruf in Scandinavia and growth in premium cigars in parts of 
Latin America and Europe, Africa and the Middle East, China and 
the USA. Limited editions continued to support cigar growth, 
including exclusive offerings from Montecristo to celebrate the 
brand’s 80th anniversary.
Contributions from Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 and Rizla 
reinforced our world leadership in fine cut tobacco and papers,  
and included strong growth in modern variants of Golden Virginia  
in the UK and Greece. 
As a result of the USA acquisition our Growth and Specialist 
Brands have been reclassified, effective 1 October 2015.
Winston has been added to Growth Brands, replacing USA Gold, 
which becomes a Portfolio Brand, and Kool and blu have joined  
our Specialist Brands.
Momentum in Growth Markets
Conditions in the Near East masked a number of good results in 
Growth Markets, where our overall market share was 6.1 per cent. 
Underlying net revenue declined by 2.5 per cent and adjusted 
operating profit increased by 19.0 per cent. Excluding Iraq and 
Syria, underlying net revenue was up 4.5 per cent and adjusted 
operating profit was up 27.0 per cent.
Our performance in Russia improved in the year, buoyed by 
stronger pricing in the second half and gains from Maxim in the 
growing value segment. Snus sales increased in Norway and 
Sweden and we improved our cigarette share in Saudi Arabia. 
We continued to build our position in Japan and Egypt and made 
further progress in Italy and Kazakhstan. Results in Vietnam were 
undermined by further growth in illicit trade following regulatory 
changes. 
Underlying Growth Brand volumes were down 16.0 per cent at 
46.5 billion stick equivalents, with the majority of the decline due  
to lower volumes in Iraq, Syria and Vietnam.
Excellent Progress in the USA 
We completed the acquisition of assets in the USA from Reynolds 
American on 12 June and the enlarged business, ITG Brands, has 
made excellent progress against its commercial and integration plans.
Our financial performance was enhanced by the contribution of  
ITG Brands. In total, ITG Brands and our existing USA operations 
generated tobacco net revenue of £707 million, an increase of  
39.4 per cent, and adjusted operating profit of £375 million, an 
increase of 47.2 per cent. Since completion, the net contribution  
of the acquisition to the USA performance was volumes of five 
billion stick equivalents and tobacco net revenue of £242 million.
The newly acquired brands maintained share and our national sales 
team has introduced new retail programmes to support the 
development of our enhanced portfolio.
Integration continues to be effectively managed, with all elements  
of the plan moving ahead smoothly in line with our timetable. The 
transfer of manufacturing machinery between Lorillard’s factory in 
Greensboro and Reynolds American’s site at Tobaccoville as part  
of a reciprocal manufacturing agreement is also progressing well.
Our cigarette business is complemented by a strong cigar position. 
Challenges persisted in the mass market cigar segment as a result 
of competitor discounting, impacting revenue.
Our premium cigar portfolio performed well and we implemented  
a restructuring of our distribution business JR Cigars to further 
strengthen our position in the premium segment. 
Positive Performance in Returns Markets
We made positive progress in Returns Markets, generating good 
results in Australia, Germany, Czech Republic, Portugal, Ukraine 
and Algeria. This mitigated the impact of weaker trading conditions 
in France, Spain and Morocco.
