 4 IMI plc
First impressions
I was delighted to be appointed your Chairman in May last year. IMI is a terrific company 
with many strengths and I am particularly pleased to be taking on this role at such an 
exciting time.
Following the appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive in 2014, the Group’s 
strategic direction was reset and refocused on delivering sustainable accelerated top 
and bottom line growth and long-term shareholder value. 
Since becoming Chairman last year, I have visited a number of our businesses including 
our world-class Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering operations in the Czech 
Republic and have been able to spend time with many of our employees. Three things 
in particular have stood out.
First, our people: they have world-class engineering skills and are committed and 
passionate about the products and technologies they are creating and the service  
they provide to customers. I have been particularly impressed with the high levels of 
employee engagement which are very evident throughout every area of the operation, 
whether it be continuous improvement driven from the shop floor or the Obeya rooms 
which are used to improve our project management within Critical Engineering.  
The culture and ambition for change was evident throughout. 
Secondly, the impact of our growth plan: our new strategic direction is well embedded 
in all our businesses and, while we are still in the early phases of our five year plan, 
thanks to the hard work of all employees around the Group, we are making progress 
and benefits are already starting to come through. It is also evident that, despite the 
challenging market environment, which Mark Selway explains in his review on page 8, 
the implementation of cost cutting initiatives and the acceleration of a number of 
operational improvements, our growth plan remains on track.
And thirdly, the opportunity: a range of significant growth opportunities, both organic 
and acquisitive, exist for all our businesses. I am confident that IMI’s inherent strengths 
and the significant amount of work that has been done this year to ready our 
businesses for accelerated growth will enable us to fully exploit these opportunities.
Board performance / corporate governance
As a newly appointed Chairman of any complex international Group there are a great 
many activities with which I have needed to become familiar including a new Board,  
a new Executive team, new products, new markets and practices and procedures, 
which in many ways make up the DNA of the Group.
It is pleasing to report that my early reviews of the key components of IMI have been 
favourable. There is a positive dynamic in the Boardroom where we have a diversity of 
skills which provide a good balance of support and challenge to our Executive team.
“This is an exciting time to be part of IMI. As we continue to deliver our strategic plan I believe 
that momentum will continue to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and 
continues to be done will drive medium-term growth and long-term value for our shareholders.”
“While the Group’s organic growth strategy provides good prospects for profitable expansion, 
our strong cash generation and balance sheet give us the full range of options to create growth 
through business development and acquisitions.” 
Chairman’s Statement
“Significant opportunities”
4
Lord Smith of Kelvin
Chairman 5
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board details
Turn to page 46
Corporate Governance
Turn to page 44
The Executive clearly has a lot on its plate, not helped by  
the headwinds in many of its markets. With the addition of 
Massimo Grassi who joined us in June to head up the Precision 
Engineering division, Mark now has his full complement of 
Executives who are all committed to delivering our strategic 
plan. I have completed a review of our succession planning  
and Executive development plans and am comfortable that  
with proper execution we have a robustness from which to 
build our future. 
In terms of products and markets, I have spent time with the 
Board and management reviewing our five year strategic plan 
and I am impressed with what I have seen. The plan is ambitious 
but I am a believer in ambitious goals and the Executive has 
been diligent in its review of its markets, competitors and the 
opportunities which are available to us in the future.
I have also had the opportunity to undertake reviews of our risk 
management and internal control and governance framework 
including meeting with our independent auditor Ernst & Young 
LLP (‘EY’). These reviews give me a great deal of confidence that 
across the Group, the IMI Way, which sets out our values and 
how we do business, is well embedded. The new procedures 
and structures, which are being introduced progressively, and 
the addition of Francis Knowles, who joined IMI this year as 
Director of Risk and Compliance, will further strengthen the 
governance framework of the Group.
Board changes
I succeeded Roberto Quarta as Chairman at the close of the 
Annual General Meeting in May last year (‘AGM’). Roberto  
had been your Chairman since 2011 and during that time  
he oversaw much change, as a result of which, IMI is well 
positioned for long-term growth. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank him for his significant contribution and wish him 
well in the future. 
Daniel Shook joined the Board as Finance Director designate 
on 1 January 2015 and became Finance Director on 1 March 
2015, succeeding Douglas Hurt, who retired from the Board  
at the AGM. After serving as a non-executive director for nine 
years, Anita Frew also retired from the Board at the AGM and 
Bob Stack succeeded her as senior independent director 
immediately following the AGM. Ross McInnes, who joined  
the Board as a non-executive director on 1 October 2014,  
took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 
2015 after Phil Bentley stepped down from the Board at the 
end of 2014. 
More recently on 1 September 2015 we welcomed Isobel 
Sharp to the Board as a non-executive director and a member 
of the Audit Committee. Isobel has extensive accounting, audit 
and corporate governance experience and having advised a 
number of FTSE boards during her career she has wide  
ranging business experience.
Summary
This is an exciting time to be part of IMI. As we continue to 
deliver our strategic plan I believe that momentum will continue 
to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and 
continues to be done will drive accelerated growth and long-
term value for our shareholders. 
Introduction Our strategic plan is 
now being executed 
across the Group and 
I am pleased to report 
real progress and 
momentum starting  
to build
Engineering 
GREAT the 
IMI Way 
Corporate 
responsibility
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
Key performance 
indicators
Our business 
model
We set out our approach to doing 
business responsibly and the  
importance of the IMI Way.
We have in place a well-established risk 
management structure and framework 
which is designed to identify, manage 
and mitigate the business risks we face.
Our business performance is measured 
through Group-wide targets and 
improvement measures.
Our business model is built around our 
core strategic priorities of capitalising 
on growth opportunities, operational 
excellence, investment in product 
development and targeted acquisitions.
26-29
32-35 30-31
12-24 
Chief Executive’s Review
Mark Selway describes early progress 
and continuing ambitions 
08-11
Strategic review
Above 
Every person at IMI in every function is 
actively involved in improvement activities
Right 
The implementation of lean uses industry 
recognised Kanban and Pull systems
IMI plc 6 Group Overview Group Overview Strategic Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction Strategic Review
