 Mark Selway at the Critical Engineering conference and visiting our 
CCI operation in California
8 IMI plc
Performance in 2015
“Despite tough conditions in many of our markets we made steady progress on a number 
of fronts. Our financial results, while lower than originally anticipated, were broadly 
in line with expectations, with substantial progress being made in the execution of the 
strategic plan we outlined in 2014.” 
Chief Executive’s Review
“A year of good strategic progress”
Challenging environment
Trading conditions in many of our geographies and markets were tough. In particular 
economic slowdowns in China and Brazil impacted both our Critical Engineering and 
Precision Engineering divisions. Challenging trading conditions across industrial markets 
world-wide adversely affected most of our businesses.
The Oil & Gas market continues to be impacted globally by the unprecedented slide  
in the oil price and while IMI is uniquely positioned in our exposure to liquid natural gas,  
the wider market downturn impacted the petrochemical order book in Critical Engineering 
and the upstream activities of both Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering.
The Group’s exposure to the heavy truck sector falls predominantly to Precision 
Engineering and 2015 represented a solid year of production in Europe and North 
America with the latter slowing from its peak in the final quarter of 2015. The Brazilian 
heavy truck market suffered terribly with close to half the volume when compared  
to 2014.
In Hydronic Engineering, our most important European construction markets remained 
soft with Germany and the Nordic regions showing small declines in the year. The 
investments which the division has made in new products proved to be timely,  
growing our market share and offsetting all of the market decline in the year.
Given these tough market conditions and the expectation that they will continue in 
the near term we are undertaking a number of cost cutting initiatives including closing 
smaller, low growth production facilities in Critical Engineering and downsizing our 
Brazilian footprint in Precision Engineering. We fully recognise that these difficult 
decisions affect our employees and the communities in which we operate. However 
they are necessary to keep our strategic plan on track and deliver long-term sustainable 
growth. We are also taking the opportunity to accelerate some of the improvement 
projects which were due for implementation during later phases of our growth plan, 
including the consolidation of Critical Engineering’s European footprint and closure  
of its nuclear operation in Canada.
Mark Selway
Chief Executive Mark Selway meeting with the Precision Engineering leadership 
in Singapore
9
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The cost cutting initiatives and acceleration of the European 
rationalisation projects will improve the short-term results of  
the Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering divisions 
while underpinning the longer term prospects of the Group.
Results overview
Despite experiencing tough conditions in many of our markets, 
our financial results were broadly in line with expectations. 
Group revenues on an organic basis decreased by 5% 
due to tough conditions in many of our end markets. After 
acquisitions, disposals and adverse exchange rate movements, 
reported Group revenues were down 8% to £1,557m (2014: 
£1,686m). Segmental operating profit of £239m (2014: 
£298m) decreased by 15% on a like for like basis and reflected 
the lower sales volumes and our investment in a range of 
growth initiatives. After the impact of adverse exchange rate 
movements, reported segmental operating profit decreased by 
20%. The Group’s operating margin was 15.4% (2014: 17.7%) 
and reported earnings per share decreased by 20% to 62.2p 
(2014: 78.0p). Cash generation of £192m (2014: £154m) was 
particularly strong following working capital improvements 
across our businesses as a result of our lean implementation. 
This resulted in Net Debt of £237m and a Net Debt to EBITDA 
ratio of 0.9x.
Reflecting continued confidence in the Group’s prospects the 
Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by 
2% to 24.5p (2014: 24.0p). This makes a total dividend for the 
year of 38.4p, an increase of 2% over last year’s 37.6p.
Strategy starting to deliver
As the Chairman has highlighted on page 4, our new strategic 
plan is now embedded in all our businesses and across the 
Group we are seeing real progress and momentum starting  
to build. 
Operational performance continues  
to improve
Our operational performance continues to improve. This is 
a fundamental part of our growth plan. As our businesses 
become more efficient we will better utilise our production 
facilities, reduce our working capital requirements and generate 
cost savings, all of which will enhance our competitiveness. 
We use a world renowned lean benchmarking assessment 
to track operational improvement in every IMI facility and the 
first assessments took place back in June 2014. Since then, 
significant progress has been made. Critical Engineering has 
improved its results from its first benchmark of 26% to 56% at 
the end of 2015, Precision Engineering has improved from 32% 
to 59% while Hydronic Engineering made the most progress 
from 37% to 72% in the same period. The goal for all of our 
facilities is to achieve world-class operational performance by 
2018 and I am delighted to report that several of our plants, 
including Hydronic Engineering’s Polish operations, which 
scored 88% in the latest assessment, are well on track to 
achieving that. 
The early benefits of these operational improvements are 
already showing through. All the Group’s facilities now 
have established continuous improvement programmes 
which are driving improvements in quality, productivity and 
responsiveness to customer demand. The lean journey is a 
never ending programme to eliminate waste in all of its forms 
and, while we remain at the early phase of implementation, 
I was pleased to see the benefits of working capital and 
inventory gains delivered in the year.
Product lead times and machine set ups have also improved 
remarkably and these benefits, when tied to normal levels 
of factory loading will, without question, result in improved 
competitiveness and sustainable competitive advantage  
across all of our sectors and geographies.
Strategic Review 1. 2.
10 IMI plc
Our businesses are ready for  
accelerated growth
Much of 2015 and the early phases of our growth plan have 
been about strengthening our infrastructure and investing in 
systems and processes that allow us to operate globally in the 
most efficient and effective way. I am pleased to report we have 
also made much progress in this area. 
We have launched new ERP systems, which accurately and 
efficiently manage data in all of our divisions. In May 2015, a 
new ERP system was launched in Critical Engineering’s Czech 
Republic and Austrian businesses and will be subsequently rolled 
out in the division’s Japanese, Korean and Swedish businesses 
during 2016. Precision Engineering has also launched a new ERP 
system which went live at Farmington in Connecticut and will be 
rolled out across four other US sites next year and a new division-
wide system is currently being rolled out in Hydronic Engineering. 
The successful launch and roll out of these systems, on time, 
to budget, and without disruption, is a significant achievement 
and a testament to the hard work of our employees around the 
Group. We are progressively rolling out the tools to automatically 
collect, manage and distribute accurate and consistent information 
easily and efficiently. Repetitive, time consuming and sometimes 
erroneous manual data entry is fast becoming a thing of the past. 
Day-to-day tasks are performed more efficiently, project cycle 
times have been reduced and data retrieval and reporting has 
been made quicker and easier. In addition to these operational 
benefits, financial improvements are also coming through. 
Access to accurate consistent data means we can better 
manage and control operating costs. In particular, as we now 
have better visibility across the entire production process, 
management of our inventory has significantly improved leading  
to an impressive reduction in suppliers and slow moving 
inventory during the year. Most importantly we are now better 
equipped to monitor the profitability of each and every project.
We have also introduced systems to improve our project 
management and quality procedures. A new visual project 
management system called Obeya is now up and running at 
Critical Engineering’s CCI businesses in the US, Korea and the 
Czech Republic and a new quality system is now operating 
across the whole of the Precision Engineering division. 
Product development to drive organic 
growth is accelerating
To maintain our competitiveness and market-leading positions, 
we outlined in our strategy the need to develop our product 
portfolio and in particular create new products and technologies 
that are at the forefront of flow control technology and that offer 
customers compelling solutions to the engineering challenges 
they face. Last year we began to progressively increase our R&D 
spend. In 2014 we spent around 3% of revenue on R&D and by 
2017 we plan to have increased this to around 5% of revenue. 
In the past 24 months, Hydronic Engineering has developed and 
launched 29 new products which generated almost 10% of the 
division’s total revenue last year. Of particular note is the Eclipse 
product, which provides the market with a new and dynamic 
level of control and has succeeded in substantially growing 
market shares even in these soft market conditions.
In Precision Engineering we have now completed our review 
of the Industrial Automation market and its various subsectors. 
This work, together with rigorous laboratory testing and teardown 
of recognised market-leading products, has provided a clear 
roadmap for the product pipeline needed to grow our position  
in our selected sectors.
Also in the important heavy Commercial Vehicle sector, the division 
has completed the development of a new proportionate valve, 
the Phoenix valve. This provides faster response and assists our 
customers reduce emissions and improve fuel efficiency. This valve 
has already been adopted by a significant European customer with 
a good flow of revenue expected from 2019.
In order to manage efficiently the volume of new products  
within Precision Engineering’s future pipeline, the division has 
developed a new and dynamic New Product Introduction 
process which includes advanced quality planning and many  
of the tools successfully used in both Hydronic Engineering  
and Critical Engineering.
Within Critical Engineering, our already globally recognised 
excellence in critical valve design has been enhanced with 
competitor teardown and benchmarking processes and the 
introduction of our Obeya project management system,  
which helps reduce lead times and ensure timely and efficient 
delivery of the entire production process in even the most 
technically difficult projects. 1.  Daily ‘tool box’ talks and team 
meetings now feature at all  
IMI facilities
2.  New product and rapid  
prototyping techniques
3.  Critical Engineering’s new  
world-class factory in Korea
4.  The use of Total Productive 
Maintenance helps productivity  
and reduces downtime
3. 4.
11
Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Introduction
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Business development
In business development, the overarching priority in 2015 has 
been the integration of Bopp & Reuther which was acquired 
at the start of the year. This acquisition allowed us to build and 
implement our new IMI acquisition and integration procedures, 
which will help deliver successful acquisitions in the future. 
While the markets for Bopp & Reuther have been similarly 
impacted by the declines experienced in our other Critical 
Engineering businesses, the integration, while not without its 
challenges, has proceeded well and created a platform for 
accelerated synergy delivery in the years ahead.
While timing can never be certain, our business development 
activities in 2016 will continue to focus predominantly on value 
enhancing, strategically aligned bolt-ons for Critical Engineering 
and Hydronic Engineering, with larger scale opportunities 
remaining an ambition during the later years of our strategic plan.
Our people 
As I have highlighted in 2015, we have made a great deal 
of progress. While navigating challenging market conditions 
the Group has delivered results in line with expectations 
and continued to execute our growth agenda. All of these 
achievements are due to our employees and on behalf of the 
Board I would like to thank them for all of their hard work,  
their commitment and focus.
Outlook
Based on current market conditions, and on an organic 
constant currency basis, we expect first half revenues to reflect 
a similar percentage reduction to that experienced in the full 
year of 2015. Due to reduced sales volumes we expect first half 
margins to be around 250 basis points lower than the first half 
of 2015. The benefits of restructuring activities, combined with 
normal business phasing, are expected to result in improved 
revenues and margins in the second half of the year.
Strategic Review
