 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6
Mark Williamson Chairman
We delivered another good performance in 
2015, creating further sustainable value for  
our shareholders. This was achieved through 
the consistent execution of our strategy, which 
is focused on maximising sales, cost and  
cash opportunities. 
Our performance highlights included gains from our Growth and 
Specialist Brands, strong results in a broad spread of markets and 
the completion of an acquisition that has transformed our presence 
in the USA, the world’s most profitable tobacco market outside  
of China.
We also made excellent progress with our strategic transition 
initiatives, further optimising our portfolio and market footprint, 
implementing better ways of working and efficiently managing  
our cost base. 
It is a credit to our people around the world that Imperial Tobacco 
continues to deliver such good results, often against a backdrop  
of difficult market conditions. My thanks to everyone for their 
contribution.
Growing Returns for Shareholders
Our success continues to generate sustainable returns for our 
shareholders. 
On a constant currency basis tobacco net revenue was up by  
4 per cent, adjusted operating profit was up by 7 per cent and  
we grew adjusted earnings per share by 8 per cent. 
The Board is pleased to be recommending a total dividend for  
the year of 141.0 pence per share, another strong increase of  
10 per cent.
Investing in the USA
In July 2014 we announced our intention to acquire a number  
of assets in the USA, one of our key Growth Markets. These  
assets were being sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard  
by Reynolds American and consisted of a portfolio of US  
cigarette brands, blu, a leading e-cigarette brand and Lorillard’s 
infrastructure, including its cigarette factory and national sales 
force.
We successfully completed the transaction on 12 June 2015 for a 
consideration of $7.1 billion (£4.6 billion) or $5.6 billion (£3.6 billion) 
after adjusting for the present value of expected tax benefits of 
approximately $1.5 billion.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The deal, which was financed from debt and our own cash 
resources, has significantly enhanced our operations in the USA 
providing national distribution for our brands and improving our 
cigarette market share from around 3 per cent to over 9 per cent. 
The expanded business, ITG Brands, will significantly increase the 
diversity and sustainability of our cash flow and returns. The USA 
will become the largest contributor to Group revenues and as a 
result, we now disclose our USA performance as a separate 
reportable segment.
Capital Discipline
Our continued focus on embedding stronger capital discipline  
in the business was reflected in further improvements in cash 
conversion and debt reduction.
Cash conversion increased to 97 per cent, up from 91 per cent  
last year.
Adjusted net debt increased to £11.6 billion, the result of adding 
£4.6 billion for the USA acquisition. We reduced adjusted net debt 
in the existing business by £1.1 billion, building on the excellent 
progress we made in 2014 and taking the total reduction over  
the last two years to £2.1 billion.
A Responsible Business
We run our business responsibly and take pride in the positive 
contributions we make in countries across our international 
footprint. We respect the natural resources we use, provide 
employment for around 36,400 people and return over £16 billion  
a year to governments in taxes and duties.
Our corporate responsibility priorities are clearly set out in our 
responsibility framework and an update on the progress we’re 
making in key areas can be found on pages 21 to 24 of this  
report and on our website: www.imperial-tobacco.com
Governance and the Board
Strong governance is integral to our long-term sustainability  
and the Board is committed to ensuring that Imperial Tobacco  
is governed and managed in an open, honest and transparent 
manner. 
Our Governance Report provides an overview of our governance 
framework and the work of the Board and its Committees.
Following the completion of the USA acquisition we made a 
number of senior management changes to ensure that we have  
the right structure in place to lead the enlarged Group. 
These changes included appointing Matthew Phillips, previously 
Corporate Affairs Director and a member of the Board for the  
past three years, as Chief Development Officer. In this new role, 
Matthew is responsible for corporate development and Fontem 
Ventures, including blu, and also retains his corporate and legal 
affairs responsibilities. 
Building on our Success 
We made good progress in 2015 and will continue to focus on 
strengthening the business and improving the quality of our growth.
We have the strategy, the capabilities and the people to build  
on these results and deliver another year of value creation for  
our shareholders.
Mark Williamson
Chairman
