 A VISION AND 
STRA TEGY FOR  
THE FUTURE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
The Group saw broad based 
growth across our portfolio  
of 26 geographic markets. 
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20 A vision and strategy for the future
I am delighted to be writing my ﬁrst annual letter to 
shareholders as the CEO of Inchcape. It has been an 
energising ﬁrst year and I am excited about the future.  
I am especially pleased to be able to introduce another 
successful set of results. 
The Group maintained robust trading momentum throughout 
2015, gathering pace as the year progressed to deliver, as we 
anticipated, a better second half than ﬁrst. We saw broad 
based growth across our portfolio of 26 geographic markets 
and our full range of revenue streams – New and Used vehicle 
sales, Finance & Insurance products, Aftersales Servicing and 
Parts – as we leveraged our OEM brand partners’ continuing 
lead in technology and innovation. 
It was particularly pleasing to deliver growth in our high-
margin Aftersales business as we reap the beneﬁt from the 
New vehicle growth in many of our markets in recent years. 
We saw a number of strong performances from many of our 
operations around the world. In Singapore, our operations 
beneﬁted from the increased quota of Certiﬁcate of 
Entitlement (COE) licences, which led to a signiﬁcant 
year-on-year growth in the New vehicle market. We also 
performed well in Australasia, where we gained share in a 
growing market and beneﬁted from the successful launches 
of the Subaru Outback and Liberty models. Further, we grew 
market share for our OEM partners in Hong Kong and Greece.
Performance was also strong in Emerging Markets, particularly 
Ethiopia where our business gained from the structural growth 
of the middle class and beneﬁted from investments made in 
recent years. Despite a 35.7% decline in the Russian New car 
market, we again demonstrated our resilience to achieve 
improved gross margins on vehicles and growth in our 
Aftersales operations.
Our UK business delivered a robust top-line performance, 
driven by good consumer conﬁdence and attractive offers 
from the OEMs. Pressure on Used vehicle margins for some  
of our brands in the UK, however, limited our ability to realise 
the full potential of this revenue trend into proﬁt. 
Our commercial performance enabled us to make important 
investments in our continued future success, including our 
new state-of-the-art Cooper Reading retail centre, the largest 
BMW centre in the UK; our new 60,000 square feet body and 
paint workshop for Toyota/Lexus in Pandan, Singapore; and 
our new Yuen Long Hino retail centre in Hong Kong.
I would like to recognise our Market CEOs and their teams  
for their important contributions to our strong 2015 results:  
Aris Aravanis, who was highly effective in his new role as  
CEO Continental Europe, growing further our strong  
market leadership in Greece; George Ashford, who  
led our Australasian business to a record performance;  
Louis Fallenstein, for the new impetus he brings to our UK 
organisation; Patrick Lee, for growing market share in North 
Asia and achieving the prestigious Toyota Triple Crown for 
market leadership in Hong Kong for the 24th year; Koh Ching 
Hong, for directing the strong contribution of our South Asian 
business; and Ruslan Kinebas, for grasping his new role as 
CEO Emerging Markets with such energy and determination. 
You will be able to read about our 2015 results in more  
detail from page 82 onwards in this report. They provide  
the backdrop against which I want to give you some insight 
into how we intend to build upon our recent successes in the 
years to come.
Insight and observations
I will comment on the strengths and challenges I initially 
perceived at Inchcape that persuaded me to join the Group 
a year ago, and I will then share with you my impressions of 
the organisation and outline my and the Executive team’s 
ambitions for its future. 
Pioneering spirit
I was impressed by the Group’s focus on the customer,  
which chimed closely with my own passionate commitment 
to customer service. I was also attracted by the Company’s 
rich history and pioneering spirit, as well as the truly global 
scale on which it operates. 
Further, I was drawn by the Company’s twin focus on  
business-to-business (B2B) and business-to-consumer  
(B2C) relationships, with vehicle manufacturers (OEMs)  
and end-customers respectively. This resonated with my  
own career so far, during which I have been immersed  
in both B2B and B2C relationships. I saw this as a great 
opportunity to have an impact on both at the same time.
So, how did my expectations compare with what I found 
during my ﬁrst few months in the role? 
I found a well-run company with strong capital discipline, 
rigorous controls and with a range of powerful assets: a 
Group that is for the most part successfully leveraging the 
potential of its business model, including its strength across 
both Distribution and Retail.
The Company has long-standing partnerships with many of 
the world’s leading automotive OEMs, those at the forefront  
of R&D, innovation and marketing impact. It has a customer-
centric focus, strong processes, a highly knowledgeable 
management team and a skilled workforce spread 
throughout its global markets. There is a disciplined culture, 
built around rigorous performance management. And 
underpinning this, the organisation has a strong balance 
sheet and an attractive set of diversiﬁed revenue streams  
to respond to every stage of the economic cycle.
As evidence of the Group’s deep-rooted strength, I found an 
organisation that has a track record of consistently delivering 
improved margins, proﬁts and dividends. 
Above all, I found a strong company of global scale with 
some unique competitive advantages and a diverse portfolio 
in many of the world’s most attractive markets.
So overall, I feel privileged to join such a great business and  
I am conﬁdent about the future strength of the Inchcape 
brand and organisation.
(continued on page 24)
The global auto market: driving growth  
in an omni-channel world
The global automotive industry is undergoing signiﬁcant 
change. Technology-driven trends are rapidly evolving 
customer behaviours and expectations. Digitisation, 
increasing automation, growing connectivity and the 
development of the smart car are just some of the 
structural forces aligning to satisfy changing consumer 
preferences. Our strategy focuses on leveraging 
opportunities from these exciting trends while building 
on Inchcape’ s unique position as an independent, 
global multi-brand Distributor and Retailer.
CASE STUDY
inchcape.com 21
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Stefan Bomhard, Group Chief Executive, Inchcape plc: 
Stefan was appointed Group CEO in April 2015. Before joining 
Inchcape, Stefan was President of Bacardi Limited’s European 
region and was also responsible for Bacardi’s Global 
commercial organisation and Global Travel Retail.
John McConnell, Group Finance Director, Inchcape plc: 
John was appointed as Group Finance Director in October 
2009, having worked with the Group since 1999. John joined 
Inchcape Australasia as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer before moving 
to the role of Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Australasia. John 
stepped down from the Board at the end of February 2016.
Aris Aravanis, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Continental Europe: 
In June 2015, Aris was promoted to CEO Continental Europe 
and has responsibility for Belgium, Luxembourg, Balkans and 
Greece. Previous to this, Aris was Managing Director, Greece 
and the Balkans. He joined the Group in 1991 and in 2000 
became General Manager, Deputy Managing Director and 
a member of the Board of Directors of Toyota Hellas.
George Ashford, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Inchcape 
Australasia: George was appointed as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer, Inchcape Australasia in January 2012. He joined the 
Group in March 2006 as Director of Implementation, 
Inchcape Advantage. In October 2006, George was 
appointed Managing Director, European Retail.
Stéphane Chatal, Group Chief Information Ofﬁcer: 
Stéphane was appointed as Chief Information Ofﬁcer in 2008 
and is responsible for the Group’s Information Systems 
strategy, its implementation and the IS function. 
Koh Ching Hong, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Inchcape South 
Asia: Ching Hong joined Borneo Motors in January 2008. He 
was appointed as Managing Director, Inchcape South Asia 
in August 2009 and is responsible for Borneo Motors and 
Champion Motors in Singapore and NBT in Brunei. 
Alison Clarke, Chief Human Resources Ofﬁcer: Alison 
joined Inchcape and the Executive Committee in 2015 from  
Mitie Group plc, where she was Transformation and Group 
People Director.
Louis Fallenstein, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Inchcape UK: 
Louis was appointed CEO of Inchcape UK in October 2015.  
A key member of Inchcape’s leadership team, Louis was 
most recently CEO of Emerging Markets and previous to that 
was Franchise Director for our UK BMW business, having been 
with Inchcape since the time of our acquisition of the EMH 
business in 2006. 
Ruslan Kinebas, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Emerging 
Markets: Ruslan joined Inchcape and the Executive 
Committee in 2015 from Mondelez International, where he 
was Area Vice President for North and West Africa and Turkey.
Ken Lee, Chief Marketing and Communications Ofﬁcer: 
Ken joined the Group in September 2003 as Marketing 
Director for the UK businesses. In 2006 he was appointed 
Customer Strategy Director and later that year was 
appointed to the Executive Committee as Group 
Communications Director with global responsibility for 
internal and external communications. In August 2013, Ken’s 
role was extended to include leadership of the Group-wide 
Marketing community.
Patrick S. Lee, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Inchcape North Asia 
and China: Patrick is in charge of our operations in Hong 
Kong, Macau and Guam. In all three markets, Toyota has 
maintained the No.1 position for several years. He is also 
responsible for the Group’s operations in China.
Bertrand Mallet, Chief Development Ofﬁcer: Bertrand was 
appointed as Chief Development Ofﬁcer in June 2015. Prior to 
this, he was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Toyota Belgium and has 
previously held the positions of Managing Director of the 
Emerging Markets and the Group Strategy Director.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
As CEO, I am delighted to lead the Group 
Executive Committee – a diverse team of  
global leaders that brings together a wealth 
experience from a range of industries as well  
as deep local market knowledge with a focus  
on operational excellence. The Executive Team 
drives the vision and direction of the Company  
on behalf of the Board. 
I would like to extend my personal gratitude  
to John McConnell, our departing Group  
Finance Director, who has been in-post  
since 2009. John has been a lead  
contributor in the delivery of strong  
ﬁnancial results during a period of  
challenging macro-economic conditions  
around the world, which is a great testament  
to his skills and commitment. He leaves behind  
a very strong ﬁnance team, which is entirely 
ﬁt-for-purpose as we move into the next  
stage of the Group’s development. 
While personally I am sad that John has  
decided to return to his native Australia,  
I know that many people will join me  
in wishing him all the best for the future. 
I am delighted to welcome Richard Howes,  
our new Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, who joins  
us from Coats Group plc. Richard will join  
us on 11 April and will be a valuable  
addition to both our Board and our  
Group Executive Committee given  
his extensive international and M&A  
experience and wealth of knowledge  
across the ﬁnancial and commercial  
sectors in fast-paced environments.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22 3
10
9
7
12
8
6
2
5
1
4
11
A GL OB AL TEAM  
OF EXPERTS
inchcape.com 23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Growth opportunities
But did I ﬁnd a company where nothing should be evolved? 
That would be an undesirable situation for any new CEO, as  
it would imply that there was no opportunity for improvement. 
Through listening to colleagues, OEM partners and end-
customers across the world, I did identify a number of areas  
in which there are clear opportunities to drive an even better 
performance, enabling us to grow our organisation and our 
proﬁts in the long term while remaining committed to strong 
ﬁnancial discipline.
As the global car industry rapidly evolves, the purchase 
behaviour and service-level expectations of consumers  
is clearly changing. We operate in a market place where 
disruptors are challenging industry incumbents and 
customers are taking more control by navigating a  
growing digital landscape. We must continue to develop  
our processes – and meet them consistently – to retain  
our position as the recognised industry leader in customer 
service in a connected, ‘omni-channel’ world.
Next, we have a very strong portfolio of brands; we need to 
build on our OEM partnerships to ensure that we thoroughly 
deserve to achieve the status of ‘partner of choice’ across all 
our relationships, and then to robustly defend that position. 
This is fundamental to our continued future success. At every 
level of Inchcape, the OEM relationship must be recognised 
for what it is – the foundation stone for everything we do and 
achieve. Our past work in building these relationships has 
been successful – now, it is my intention that we will focus  
on delivering even more value to every OEM partner, so  
that we become established as the ﬁrst port of call for  
every shared opportunity and challenge.
Third, our markets have strong long-term structural growth 
drivers, but the addressable market for Aftersales is set to  
grow even faster than the New car market. Aftersales is  
a key defensive revenue stream for the Group and drives 
approximately half of the Group’s proﬁts. There is, therefore,  
a requirement to rebalance the focus on leveraging all  
our value drivers to maximise the potential of each of  
them across the mix. 
Fourth, we have to exploit the full advantage of our unique 
position in the market place to share even more expertise 
and best practice across our organisation, leveraging our 
global scale to improve collaborative working practices  
and generate cost savings through shared services and 
global purchasing. 
Fifth, the automotive Distribution and Retail markets are  
highly fragmented; we should apply a disciplined use of 
capital to fuel further growth through selective participation  
in market consolidation.
Enabling positive change
Inchcape has solid foundations, but the environment in which 
we operate is clearly changing. To achieve our ambition, we 
will need to do some things somewhat differently. Our previous 
strategy has served us well for many years, enabling us to 
capitalise on our global leadership position. However, it is 
apparent that change is needed to build upon the great 
work of the past to maximise our performance in the future.
So, working closely with the Group Executive Team, together 
we have created an evolved strategy and vision for Inchcape: 
one that will enable us to take an even stronger leadership 
role in our industry, generating cash to invest in growth in 
markets across the world. And one that will allow us to lead 
the industry, not just in terms of scale but also of ambition, 
vision and quality of service.
In devising our strategy, we have set ﬁve objectives (see page 
25) to guide our business. These have the full endorsement  
of the Board and exist as a set of calculated and targeted 
statements that support and enable positive change on  
the ground, every day and in every part of the organisation. 
Drawn and reﬁned from the identiﬁed opportunities and 
challenges we face, they are based on real factors that  
are already impacting our business and will continue to do  
so for several years. These are the trends that are having the 
greatest effect on our markets worldwide; using them as the 
foundation of our new strategy ensures that we will constantly 
meet market needs. That is why they form the core framework 
of the actions we will take to accelerate our growth and 
business performance. 
Single-minded focus
This is a straightforward approach to getting done the  
things that matter, which revolves around teamwork and 
accountability, a shared cultural mindset, a single-minded 
focus on our key priorities and constant monitoring of 
progress and performance. 
We are organising the change programme as a series of  
ﬁve parallel workstreams. Addressing the strategic objectives 
one-by-one, each workstream comprises a set of sequential 
phases which will be championed by members of the  
Group Executive Committee, delivered locally, supported  
with centralised resources and set within a clear governance 
framework that includes regular updates to both the Group 
Executive Committee and the Board.
The core priorities within each workstream will evolve further 
over the life of the change programme, and I will report 
accordingly in future communications.
A single-minded focus  
on our key priorities and 
constant monitoring of 
progress and performance
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 A unifying vision
So those are some of the practical measures behind the 
delivery of our new growth strategy. It is also important that  
we have a unifying company vision that gives strategic  
shape to the organisation, its mission and its purpose. 
I have suggested in this letter that Inchcape is now taking  
an important evolutionary step that will see it build on the 
successful delivery of its recent past in a way that is ﬁtting to 
the market environment of the future. This is a major step for 
any organisation, and it is not one that we are taking lightly. 
We wanted to devise a single, uniquely Inchcape theme to 
which we could all align and that would highlight our role,  
our function and our value in the eyes of our customers and 
OEM partners.
Above all, we wanted to elevate our OEM partners alongside 
the customer in terms of the importance ascribed to them  
at every level of our organisation. The relationship with our 
manufacturers has always been fundamental to Inchcape’s 
competitive advantage, but being the partner organisation  
to which they turn ﬁrst for support and collaboration has never 
been more important than it will be in the years to come. As I 
have already suggested, Inchcape’s twin focus on B2C and 
B2B business must not favour one over the other – they are 
both strategically critical to our performance.
As a result of such considerations, the new vision for  
Inchcape is: 
“ To be the world’s most  
trusted automotive  
Distributor and Retailer”.
Our ﬁve strategic objectives 
1. Lead in customer experience
We will invest to maintain our position as leader  
in customer service innovation in automotive 
Distribution and Retail, with digital a key priority. 
Through a programme of global research, we will 
build on our insights into the customer journey in an 
omni-channel world and create stand-out customer 
experiences combining data-driven personalisation 
with a human touch.
2.  Become the OEM’s partner of choice
We will build and strengthen our working 
relationships with our OEM partners by investing  
time in understanding their needs, seeking greater 
opportunities for collaboration and sharing our 
insight into customer and industry trends with the 
aim of becoming a consistent strategic business 
partner at both global and local levels.
3.  Deliver full potential from all our 
revenue streams
We will increase our management focus on our 
Used vehicle and Aftersales activities at all levels of 
the organisation, enhancing their perceived status 
within the business and deepening further reporting 
and analysis. We will more actively seek to develop 
business opportunities, sharpening our emphasis on 
building our brand and USPs in these areas to match 
our proﬁle in New vehicle sales. 
4. Leverage our global scale
We will allocate more resources to innovation, 
sharing and beneﬁting even more effectively  
from the proven ideas generated throughout the 
global organisation. We will sharpen further our 
business processes, management skills, creativity 
and strategic planning across the Group, focusing  
on procurement, talent management and shared 
services to boost performance and reduce costs. 
And we will leverage our unique competitive 
advantage to develop and grow our proposition  
in new, emerging and developed markets.
5. Invest to accelerate growth
We have increased our business development 
resources to ensure we have the management 
capabilities to participate in industry consolidation. 
Furthermore, we will involve the CEOs of our  
market-speciﬁc operations, and leverage their 
knowledge and insight more directly in delivering 
our growth agenda.
Deliver full 
potential on  
all our revenue 
streams
Invest to 
accelerate 
growth
Leverage  
our global  
scale
TO BE  
THE WORLD’S 
MOST TRUSTED 
AUTOMOTIVE 
DISTRIBUTOR & 
RETAILER
Lead in  
customer 
experience
Become the 
OEM’s partner  
of choice
inchcape.com 25
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Trust. A priceless commodity
Becoming the OEM partner of choice means being the most 
trusted partner. Being the leader in automotive customer 
service is also based on a fundamental foundation of trust. 
And it is by warranting the trust of our investors that we will 
become an ever more highly valued company.
Clearly, gaining and maintaining trust through outstanding 
performance at all levels of the business is a key source of 
added value for the Group – the result of the desirable 
behaviours throughout the organisation that will drive success 
in the global markets of the future. Our new vision naturally 
guides the behaviours we seek by holding every initiative, 
every action and every individual in the organisation 
accountable to a very simple idea. It highlights our stated aim 
as a Company without having to explain it to our audiences.
The idea behind the development of our new strategy and 
vision is a simple one – to take Inchcape to the next level of  
its evolution in a shape that is consistent and in tune with  
the direction being taken by the global automotive industry.  
It is too early to state explicitly and precisely what shape this 
organisation will take, but it is possible today to highlight a 
number of its most valuable attributes.
Valuable attributes
First, Inchcape will be a growth business that generates cash 
but also builds on its strong foundations to invest in its future. 
We already occupy a unique position in the industry in terms 
of our scale, global reach and long-standing OEM partner 
relationships. By investing in growth and consolidation, we will 
strengthen further the advantage of being positioned at one 
of the most crucial parts of our $1.7 trillion industry – that 
critical point linking the manufacturer with the customer. 
Next, Inchcape will be a company operating in global 
markets that increasingly acts as a single, uniﬁed global team, 
sharing knowledge and expertise across every country and 
site. Inchcape will also have a genuinely global operating 
model in which we all leverage the same centralised, 
state-of-the-art systems and processes to maximise our 
operational efﬁciency and effectiveness. 
Third, Inchcape will be a Company in which we fully 
embrace the challenges faced by our OEM partners, 
to become their partner of choice for collaboration,  
problem-solving and development into the future. In this way, 
we will provide them not only with a matchless customer 
interface but also with a source of innovation and 
differentiation that enables them to deliver more of  
their aspirations, more efﬁciently and cost-effectively. 
Inchcape will be a company that has the investment, 
the skill and the conﬁdence to extract full potential from 
all our value drivers.
A path of improvement
So, I am fully conﬁdent that the way ahead for Inchcape as 
we steer our new strategic direction over the next ﬁve years  
is on a well-charted path of improvement and growth.
As I have stated, I believe that we have an opportunity to 
evolve as we build on our strong foundations and track 
record of performance. I believe I have outlined that need  
for change and how we are responding to it in this report. I 
am conﬁdent that the shared spirit, commitment and talents 
of our united team will continue to enable us to deliver and 
win across our global market place, leveraging the unique 
position that we occupy and realising the full potential of  
the Inchcape Group, a Company that will be driven by trust.
The global economy faces greater uncertainty looking 
forward, but Inchcape is well positioned – with supportive 
drivers at the local level across our diversiﬁed portfolio of 
markets and revenue streams. We expect to deliver a solid 
constant currency performance in 2016.
STEFAN BOMHARD
Group Chief Executive
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26
