 L ONG-TERM V ALUE
CREATION
“I am pleased that the Group has again 
demonstrated its solid fundamentals with 
another year of robust proﬁt growth. Our 
new strategic objectives put us on a clear 
path for future success and will enable us 
to continue driving performance, with long-
term value creation for our shareholders”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18 Due to further weakness in the Russian economy, we have 
recorded a £49.5m non-cash exceptional impairment of  
the value of the goodwill in Russia.
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) rose by 3.8% to 52.1p. 
Cash generated from operations during the year was 
£328.4m, which represents a 101% conversion of pre-
exceptional operating proﬁt. 
For the third year in succession, we announced a £100m 
share buy back programme at the time of our Interim  
Results, with £41m completed by 31 December 2015 and the 
remainder scheduled to be completed during the ﬁrst half  
of 2016. The Group’s cash generation continues to be strong, 
beneﬁting from our well-established disciplines over working 
capital. The Group generated £177.6m of free cash ﬂow in  
the year and had £166.4m of net cash at the year end. 
Board
I would like to thank Simon Borrows and Vicky Bindra,  
who both stepped down as Non-Executive Directors in  
2015, for their great support and contributions to the  
Board. We were pleased to announce the appointment  
of Nigel Stein who joined the Board on 8 October 2015.  
Nigel brings signiﬁcant global automotive expertise  
and is an excellent addition to the Board; he is a  
member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to recommend payment of a ﬁnal 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 14.1p, 
+2.2% on 2014 (13.8p). This gives a total dividend for 2015  
of 20.9p, a 4.0% increase on 2014 (20.1p). Subject to approval 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on  
26 May 2016, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 24 June 2016 
to shareholders of the Company on the register of members 
at the close of business on 27 May 2016.
Outlook
The Group has strong fundamentals and is well positioned 
against a backdrop of some question marks on the global 
growth outlook. These include the position in the cycle  
in some large developed markets, which have returned  
to previous peaks, the reduction in growth rates in many 
emerging markets and a number of ﬁscal and political issues. 
I am conﬁdent that we have the right team and  
the right strategy to deliver good long-term performance  
for our stakeholders. While our performance will, as ever, be 
inﬂuenced by external factors, the importance of positioning 
the Group correctly to seize growth and control our own 
destiny is even greater than usual.
KEN HANNA
Chairman
Inchcape is part of an exciting and evolving industry, within 
which we have a strong portfolio of markets and OEM 
partners. We have operated in many of our markets for 
signiﬁcant periods of time and we have a proven track record 
of being able to adapt ahead of our competition and build 
on the strength of our positions. The automotive industry is 
undergoing changes on multiple fronts, all of which we are 
very mindful, as we seek to protect and strengthen our 
businesses. However, despite all the change occurring, there  
is one important constant – the importance for automotive 
manufacturers to have a trusted partner providing a route  
to market for both Distribution and Retail. Here, our expertise 
and global reach differentiates us and our relationships will 
be solidiﬁed even further as part of the strategy outlined by 
Stefan Bomhard in his CEO’s statement. 
The Group is fortunate to have an outstanding management 
team, led by Stefan who has seamlessly integrated into 
Inchcape. Inchcape’s success is only possible due to the 
quality of its people, and I would like to thank all of our 
ﬁrst-class colleagues for their dedication and hard work 
during the year. 
After 16 years with Inchcape, 2015 marked the last full year  
of John McConnell being with the Group. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank John for the contribution he has 
made to Inchcape’s success. His expertise and insight as  
both Group Finance Director and a member of the Board 
have been invaluable and he leaves behind a strong team.  
It has been a pleasure to work alongside John. I am sure I 
speak on behalf of everyone at Inchcape in thanking him  
for his years of dedicated service and wishing him well for  
the future.
I am delighted with the appointment of Richard Howes as the 
Group’s new Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. Richard will take up his 
appointment and join the Inchcape Board on 11 April 2016.
Richard is joining from the position of Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at 
Coats Group plc, the leading industrial thread and consumer 
textile crafts business, with operations in over 70 countries 
across six continents. 
Richard has gained a wealth of experience across the 
ﬁnancial and commercial sectors, working for multi-site 
businesses with substantial global footprints. His strong track 
record of leading ﬁnance functions across different sectors  
at a number of international public companies will make 
Richard a very valuable addition to the Group. 
Performance
Group sales increased by 2.0% to £6.8bn for the full year to  
31 December 2015. Our 2015 constant currency like for like 
revenue growth of 9.0% reﬂected a stronger performance  
in the second half of the year. 
2015 saw a continuation of the Group’s trading momentum, 
supported by broad based growth across our markets and 
revenue streams. 
Group proﬁt before tax and exceptional items of £312.1m  
was up 2.9% on 2014, and excluding the property proﬁt in 
Singapore of £17.3m in 2014, the underlying increase was 9.2%.
inchcape.com 19
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
