 STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
FROM  
PROGRESS 
TO 
DELIVERY
Informa is now well placed for both product and 
market growth opportunities in the Knowledge 
and Information Economy. 
8 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.informa.com //We have 
managed to 
invest at scale 
in our own 
business whilst 
meeting our 
commercial 
performance 
targets.//
Like many businesses, we overcame 
challenges in specific markets. Our trading 
environment was impacted by energy 
price volatility, adverse currency 
movements, and geo-political upheaval 
in several parts of the world. Throughout, 
we stuck to our plans and I am pleased to 
report that we are on track with action to:
• Repair and recover our position in 
Business Intelligence;
• Accelerate our growth and size and 
scale in Global Exhibitions;
• Maintain our position as a leading 
publisher in Academic Publishing, 
with deep content and strong customer 
relationships; and
• Rethink and re-energise our approach 
to conferences and learning in 
Knowledge & Networking by focusing 
on communities and content.
This Annual Report reflects the 
progress we achieved in all these areas 
during 2015. 
It was a year in which we improved the 
management of our business operations, 
including how we deliver customer 
support, subscription renewals, cash 
collection and cash management, and 
imposed greater discipline around 
integrating acquisitions into the Group.
This effort, combined with Informa’s 
unique blend of passion, professionalism 
and personality, helped deliver a strong 
annual performance.
We have managed to invest at scale 
in our own business, by acquisition and 
through organic investment, whilst meeting 
wo years ago Informa 
launched its Growth 
Acceleration Plan, a 
programme to return every 
part of the business to 
growth, enhance operational efficiency 
and seize new market opportunities.
After a period of intense work, 
including major reorganisation, selected 
US acquisitions and withdrawal from 
non-core activities, it is clear that 2016 
will be the Delivery Year. 
We have strengthened all four 
Divisions with committed, coherent 
and creative Leadership Teams. Their 
businesses will benefit from £90m 
of investment, which has now been 
committed as part of the Growth 
Acceleration Plan or GAP, and detailed 
plans and projects are underway across 
the Group to consolidate improvements 
in our performance.
During 2016 we will invest tactically 
in functional simplification, systems, 
products, people and our publishing, 
marketing and sales platforms, which  
will be enhanced by improved activation 
and provisioning.
We are doing all this because it 
strengthens Informa’s competitiveness; 
it meets customer demand; and it builds 
capabilities that will unlock further growth.
PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE 
IN 2015
Informa’s performance in 2015 was a 
credit to the Group, and to every colleague 
within the Group.
our commercial performance targets 
and rewarding our Shareholders. Those 
Shareholder returns include dividend 
growth and the share price appreciation 
we have seen over the past three years, 
with gains for over 16% of Colleagues who 
participate in Informa’s employee share 
ownership scheme ShareMatch.
Over the past year, we have also 
seen initial benefits emerge from GAP, 
particularly in the Business Intelligence 
and Global Exhibitions Divisions. 
Our Academic Publishing Division 
has performed with resilience in a 
steadily changing marketplace, and the 
Knowledge & Networking Division 
has been enhanced by a streamlined 
operating structure under a new 
Leadership Team.
IMPROVED FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE
In the period covered by this report – the 
second year of GAP – Informa delivered 
financial results that reflect the work 
undertaken to simplify our operating 
structure, strengthen our systems, 
enhance our products and extend 
our customer focus.
Our improved capabilities in these 
areas, combined with an extended market 
reach particularly in the US, enabled 
Informa to generate revenues of £1.2bn 
for 2015, representing an increase of 
more than 6.5% on the previous year, and 
adjusted profits of £365.6m, an increase 
of almost 10% on the previous year.
T
STRATEGIC  
REPORT GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
9 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.informa.com Importantly, in the fourth quarter all four 
Divisions returned to growth, which is  
an important measure of future potential.
For the year as a whole, our Global 
Exhibitions Division represented 22% 
of our revenues. The Division’s organic 
revenue grew by 10.5% as successful 
events and acquisitions contributed 
strongly to overall performance.
Academic Publishing grew in line 
with the market in 2015. Some softness 
in the US Medical Books market and the 
wider lower level academic market had a 
marginally negative impact on the Division, 
but our balanced mix of books and 
journals, subscription and open access 
options, print and online formats, and  
our geographic reach and focus on upper 
level academia mitigated these negatives.
Business Intelligence moved 
towards organic revenue growth, reporting 
negative growth of -1.9% for the full year 
but moving into positive growth in the 
fourth quarter. This represents significant 
progress on its 2014 performance, 
reflecting improved customer retention. 
The Division has brought forward its 
growth ambition and is targeting positive 
organic growth for the full year of 2016.
We implemented a number of 
restructuring measures in 2015 in 
Knowledge & Networking. The Division 
moved towards a positive growth rate as 
the year progressed and has put in place a 
new operating structure for 2016 as part of  
its plan to generate sustained positive growth.
Overall we have delivered improved 
free cash flow and a better working capital 
performance as a result of our simplified 
operating model, tight financial control, 
improved subscription renewals and scale 
in the US market.
Our debt levels remain within our target 
range at just over two times earnings. The 
success of these metrics follows measures 
put in place to improve our financial fitness 
since 2013. This has given us the flexibility 
and the confidence to pursue our growth 
and acceleration strategy.
As the Chairman of the Board noted in his 
introduction, our performance in 2015 has 
enabled the Group to exceed the 2% 
minimum growth in dividend commitment 
we made at the outset of GAP, increasing 
the total Dividend Per Share by 4.1% to 
20.1p and committing to increase the 
dividend by at least 4% for the remaining 
period of the Plan.
CONTINUED PROGRESS WITH 
OUR GROWTH STRATEGY
Our improved financial performance is a 
clear beneficial outcome of the simplified 
structure at the core of our business, 
and the increased focus on customers 
and markets.
As shown by our business model  
and strategy section on page 18, the 
2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan  
is designed to drive growth in all parts  
of our business, whilst simultaneously 
building scale and capabilities for 
further expansion.
We made good progress on all six 
elements within GAP, notably in our 
new management approach, improved 
portfolio management discipline and 
our investment programme in platforms, 
people and products.
GAP management model
The Management and Leadership Teams 
within our Divisions now combine years 
of experience within the Group with 
newly-appointed executive talent in a 
range of positions. Amongst our top 150 
managers, approximately 40 have joined 
the Group within the past three years.
In September, we welcomed Charlie 
McCurdy as the CEO of Global 
Exhibitions as a successor to Will Morris, 
who retired towards the end of the year. I 
would like to take the opportunity to thank 
Will for his long service to Informa and his 
leadership in creating the strong and 
international Exhibitions business we 
have today. 
Dedicated Chief Technology Officers 
were appointed to each of the Operating 
Divisions during the year, putting 
technology expertise at the heart of 
our product development and 
customer engagement.
The Group now operates four 
coherent Operating Divisions, with shared 
back-office and technology support and 
where each has a clear focus on growing 
revenues, customer satisfaction and 
renewal rates.
GAP portfolio management
The increasingly disciplined approach 
Informa takes to portfolio management led 
to the sale of certain non-core businesses 
in 2015. 
We disposed of the Consumer 
Information businesses in Business 
Intelligence in July 2015. During the 
second half of 2015, we withdrew from 
the Danish, Swedish and Dutch European 
conferences businesses in Knowledge & 
Networking as a result of a decision 
to focus on larger, Branded, English-
language events. Also in this Division, 
we entered into a new partnership 
arrangement for our Russian Conferences 
Brand, Adam Smith, the structure of 
which will allow the business to be run 
in a more effective manner by working 
with a local player.
These disposals have been important 
in refocusing our portfolio and allowing 
management to concentrate on the 
vertical markets and Brands where 
we believe we have differentiation.
GAP investment
The GAP investment programme is one 
of the key elements of the overall strategy. 
We will invest £90m in total by the end 
of 2017 . This plan has been almost fully 
funded by the significant improvements 
in our working capital and free cash flow 
over the last two years.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
10 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.informa.com As of the end of 2015, more than 
20 projects spanning the four Operating 
Divisions and Global Support were 
underway. Common to many of these 
projects is a focus on investing in the 
digital delivery of our products: 
strengthening our data capabilities, our 
customer engagement and marketing 
platforms, and the technology that 
serves our customers and products.
The Group Finance Director runs  
a process of vetting, progress tracking 
and commercial benefit analysis around 
each of the investments. This ensures 
that each project receives funding based 
solely on the delivery of specific tracked 
targets. We continue to anticipate that 
this investment programme will deliver 
returns in line with our targets.
INFORMA AND THE KNOWLEDGE 
AND INFORMATION ECONOMY 
We are now well placed for product 
and market growth opportunities in the 
Knowledge and Information Economy, 
which analysts believe represents an 
addressable market worth more than 
$750bn, and which is forecast to grow at 
an annualised rate of over 4% between 
2015 and 2018.
Informa offers a mix of relevant and 
exclusive data, research, actionable 
insight and intelligence that is vital to 
commercial customers.
We serve modern businesses that 
make investment and purchasing 
decisions based on rigorous quantitative 
information and original insight and 
analysis. Informa also meets demand from 
professional audiences to develop their 
networks and make sales and business 
development at business-to-business 
trade shows, events or conferences, or 
to learn based on content and insight 
delivered online or in person.
Academics value the qualified 
knowledge represented by our trusted, 
high quality journals, learning platforms 
and ebooks or physical books. All of our 
published academic content attracts 
high levels of users and allows them to 
disseminate and share their work and 
gain professional recognition amongst 
a wide but relevant audience.
Across our Divisions we produce, 
manage and distribute knowledge and 
information on specialist topics to 
specialist communities, as well as creating 
platforms to connect those communities. 
Face-to-face events remain a chosen and 
powerful option for connecting many 
people, and the rise of digital technology 
and lower cost software and cloud-based 
solutions also creates the opportunity for 
year-round engagement online, an area in 
which Informa is increasingly innovating.
Informa’s position within 
attractive vertical markets 
Informa has strengthened its position 
in vertical markets over the last year. We 
are increasingly adopting a sector-led 
approach to portfolio development, 
ensuring that our business is focused 
on markets and verticals where we have 
the greatest opportunity to grow.
Our Business Intelligence, 
Global Exhibitions and Knowledge 
& Networking Divisions focus in the 
main on seven key verticals: Telecoms, 
Media & Technology; Financial Services; 
Construction & Real Estate; Luxury & 
Leisure; Agriculture; Food Ingredients;  
and Personal Care & Beauty.
These are some, but not all, of the 
vertical markets where we are building 
Brands, data and communities.
Across the Group, Informa’s 
geographic footprint in the US increased 
in 2015, as it did in 2014, and we continue 
to see potential for further expansion. 
The increasing internationalisation of our 
Group gives us balance and resilience, 
allowing us to navigate through more 
challenging periods in individual 
geographies.
//As more 
countries shift 
to higher levels 
of education, 
professionalism 
and consumer-
led economies, 
Informa is well 
placed.//
STRATEGIC  
REPORT GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
11 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.informa.com STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
INFORMA AND 2016
I am encouraged by the steady 
operational momentum with which we 
have started 2016. Subscription renewals 
are improving, new products are being 
launched and the volume of open access 
articles is growing. We also anticipate 
further expansion at the first major Informa 
events of the year, including Biotech 
Showcase, Arab Health and World of 
Concrete. Our Academic Publishing 
Division is making the changes necessary 
to create a single global books and a 
single global journals business, and the 
new and energetic Leadership Team 
in Knowledge & Networking has 
installed its new and more focused 
operating approach. 
As we note this continued momentum, 
Informa cannot be immune to wider 
changes in global macro-economic 
conditions. These include signs of a 
slowdown in Chinese economic growth, 
oil price weakness and its impact on 
attendant oil economies, rapprochement 
with Iran, upheaval elsewhere in the 
Middle East, political questions about the 
future of Europe including the outcome 
of the UK’s in–out referendum and the 
gathering interest in November’s US 
Presidential election.
We need to make decisions with one 
eye on all of these market moving events. 
I am confident we can navigate the 
fast changing environment in which 
we operate, thanks partly to our deep 
specialisms. Alongside our focus on  
our customers and products, Informa is 
emerging as a challenger Brand in many 
of our markets.
In all our Divisions we exist to provide 
knowledge, learning, insight, intelligence, 
connection or intellectual and commercial 
advantage. This approach is based on  
the content we have, and the manner in 
which we allow our customers to access 
it, learn from it, use it and pursue their  
own ambitions.
It makes us facilitators in the 
Knowledge and Information Economy. 
And that economy is set to grow in the 
mid to long term. As more and more 
countries shift to higher levels of 
education, professionalism, service 
and consumer-led economies, Informa 
is well placed.
We seek to enable our customers, 
delegates, attendees, subscribers, 
authors, institutions of learning, sponsors, 
advertisers and our markets overall to work 
better and be smarter.
We will continue to invest in our 
products, people and platforms, and 
do it with effective execution and 
entrepreneurialism. 
Most of all, we will intend to be proud 
and mindful of doing this whilst being 
respectful of the cultures and communities 
that we work with and in. As a company, 
we are determined to enable our 
individuals and teams to have the freedom 
to experiment, to develop, to expand, 
to have fun and do good along the way.
We are grateful for the Shareholder 
support we received during 2015. 
Informa remains focused on delivering 
further growth and improvements in 
the year ahead.
STEPHEN A. CARTER
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
/ /It is clear 
that 2016 
will be the 
Delivery Y ear 
for Informa./ /
12 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.informa.com
