 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION 
DEAR 
SHAREHOLDER 
 
The results for 2015 reflect the benefits of our strategy 
over the past two years, during which Informa moved 
from a period of Measured Change and launched the 
2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan. 
6 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.informa.com //Already, 
Informa is a 
leaner, more 
focused and 
growth-oriented 
company. We 
have expanded 
our presence in 
key markets, 
notably the US./ /
effective integration of Virgo and Hanley 
Wood Exhibitions. Acquisitions are likely 
to remain an important component of 
growth for Informa in the future. All 
capital commitments will continue to 
be made in a disciplined manner and 
will remain subject to rigorous strategic 
and financial hurdles.
On behalf of all Shareholders, your 
Board continues to monitor Informa’s 
performance in important areas such  
as compliance, risk management and 
remuneration. In 2015 we took steps 
to improve further the governance and 
controls in place across the Group, 
including further investment in our Risk 
and Compliance Team and systems. 
The quality of Informa’s Shareholder 
returns reflects, ultimately, the quality of 
its people at every level. This includes 
the Board. As part of this commitment 
to quality, we appointed two first-rate Non-
Executive Directors during the year. These 
were to broaden the Board’s international 
experience, particularly of US markets, 
and to prepare for John Davis stepping 
down from the Board in May 2016 after 
10 years of service. 
Stephen Davidson joined in September 
and brings extensive corporate and 
financial market experience in both 
Executive and Non-Executive roles, 
making him well suited to his position 
as Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. In the same month, we also 
appointed David Flaschen to the Board. 
David is an American citizen with a wealth 
of Senior Management experience in 
the US Media, Information Services and 
Technology sectors. The Group’s growing 
presence in these markets and stated 
ambition to build its position in North 
America make him an invaluable source 
of advice and insight to the Board and 
its Management Team. 
nforma has delivered another 
year of improved operating 
performance and further strategic 
progress. On behalf of the Board 
and our Shareholders, I would 
like to thank our Management Team and 
all our colleagues for the hard work in 
delivering the financial results set out 
in this Annual Report. 
The statutory results for the 12 months 
to 31 December 2015 reflect the benefits 
of our strategy over the past two years, 
during which Informa moved from a period 
of Measured Change and launched the 
2014–2017 Growth Acceleration Plan. 
Your Board is confident that Informa 
will meet its ambitious goals, generating 
sustainable growth across all four 
Operating Divisions, which should in turn 
drive Shareholder returns. The Board 
will continue to oversee management’s 
performance closely, ensuring that the 
Group executes its strategy with financial 
discipline and with integrity. 
Already, Informa is a leaner, more 
focused and growth-oriented company. 
We have expanded our presence in 
key markets, notably the US. We also 
strengthened our divisional management 
and enhanced our returns to Shareholders 
through improvements in revenue, 
earnings and dividend growth. 
There is still a long way to go to  
reach the ambitious targets we have set 
ourselves. But the Group is on track and 
the Board remains supportive and united 
behind the current strategy. 
Your Board of Directors has endorsed 
management’s plans to internationalise 
the Group further, as we look to extend all 
our businesses into new markets that offer 
growth opportunities. It is encouraging to 
see that the US expansion programme 
in the Global Exhibitions Division is 
delivering ahead of plan, following the 
I would like to take the opportunity 
to thank John Davis for his long and 
distinguished contribution to Informa. 
He fulfilled important roles on the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees and put 
his extensive sector expertise to good 
use in the service of Shareholders. 
I am also grateful that he agreed to 
stay on the Board for an extra period 
whilst we prepared for the new  
Non-Executive joiners. 
Full details of your Board’s 
composition and governance procedures 
can be found from page 65 onwards in 
this report.
Our confidence in the progress and 
performance of the Group led the Board 
to increase the total Dividend Per Share 
for 2015 by 4.1% to 20.1p. We have also 
increased our minimum commitment for 
the remainder of the Growth Acceleration 
Plan. Through 2016 and 2017 we will 
increase our annual dividend by a 
minimum of 4%, double the previous 
2% commitment.
The Board is confident that continued 
progress in the Growth Acceleration Plan 
will include further steps to enhance our 
returns for Shareholders. This will make 
the Group an outstanding enterprise in 
which to work, with which to do business 
and in which to invest. 
My thanks again go to the 
Management Team and all Informa 
colleagues, as well as to customers and 
business partners for their support in 2015. 
I look forward to 2016 as a year of further 
investment in the Group’s growth and 
continued value-creation for Shareholders.
DEREK MAPP 
CHAIRMAN
The Strategic Report, which makes 
up pages 2 to 60 in Informa’s 2015 
Annual Report, has been reviewed and 
approved by the Board of Directors.
10 February 2016
I
STRATEGIC  
REPORT GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
7 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.informa.com
