 Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
10
Chief Executive’s review
From this solid platform, we expect a substantial
increase in activity from our own housebuilding
activities, land sales and joint ventures with trade
partners.
Inland is firmly established as a specialist in the regeneration
of complex brownfield sites in the South of England. Our
skill base enables us to evaluate the risk/reward relationship
in buying large scale opportunities without consent and
improving the value by obtaining commercially viable
planning permissions.
As the business has grown, so has our expertise; our model
now entails carrying out major infrastructure works, landscaping
and installation of combined heat and power systems.
Planning system
Successful outcomes are expected on all of our projects,
but timescales within the UK’s increasingly complex planning
system are difficult to predict. The planning environment
continues to evolve and whilst it is encouraging to see
housing so high on the political agenda, the ‘avalanche’ of
new initiatives coming forward are potentially counteracting
the need to simplify the planning system.
One of the Group’s key strengths is its ability to guide
schemes through the planning process, managing the many
stakeholders and their interests coupled with overcoming
environmental constraints.
A year of consolidation – during
the year our focus was very much
on improving the value of our land
bank by successfully re-negotiating
Section 106 Agreements and
achieving further planning
permissions.
“
”
Key challenges for 
this year
➛ Securing planning consent at Poole
in Dorset
➛ Securing planning consent at St
John’s Hospital (southern section) in
Chelmsford, Essex
➛ Finalising a joint venture development
agreement with a major housebuilder
at Ashford Hospital in Middlesex 
➛ Progressing the Development Brief at
Wilton Park in Beaconsfield,
Buckinghamshire 
➛ Continuing the development of
Drayton Garden Village in Middlesex Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
11
Overview Business review Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
Show home at Warwick Gardens in Redhill, Surrey Strategy
Our land bank of more mature projects with consent will
enable regular land sales. The growing housebuilding
programme, together with planned joint ventures, should
enable the Group to have a more conventional ‘shape’, 
thus reducing the level of perceived exposure which will
assist shareholder perception and understanding of our
business model. 
We have in the pipeline some sales to major housebuilders
and Housing Associations of a substantial number of
consented plots that are ‘ready for development’. In
addition, there has been a significant increase in our own
housebuilding programme where we currently have over
100 units within our construction programme with an
anticipated gross development value of £18.0 million. These
developments include 80 apartments at Queensgate in
Farnborough, Hampshire where we recently completed a
phase of 15 houses and four apartments; and 14 houses
and 14 apartments at Warwick Gardens in Redhill, Surrey.
Finance
As set out in the previous Annual Report and Accounts, we
have obtained secured funding from a number of non-
banking sources and to date have drawn down in the order
of £6.7 million from these facilities.
Housebuilding finance of £1.5 million has been drawn down
from Close Brothers and a facility of £2.5 million has been
approved by Barclays Bank, which we expect to utilise
shortly to partly refinance some of the funding from 
non-banking sources. In addition, the Group has secured a
£1.9 million line of funding via the Homes and Communities
Agency’s ‘Get Britain Building’ initiative for our 
Farnborough development.
Since the last year end inventories have increased from
£24.1 million to £43.8 million as at 30 June 2012 and there
was a corresponding increase in net borrowings from
£424,000 to £6.4 million at the balance sheet date, resulting
in net gearing of 13.2% (2011: 0.9%).
Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
12
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Recently completed phase of 19 units at Queensgate in Farnborough, Hampshire
Show home at Warwick Gardens in Redhill, Surrey Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
13
Overview Business review Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
An E.ON representative, Stephen Wicks and the Mayor of Hillingdon discussing the benefits of the Energy Centre at Drayton Garden Village Securing the long overdue consent on our site at Poole in
Dorset, where we are inching closer to permission. The
delay has been beyond our control due to the Local
Authority having to undertake an appropriate assessment of
increased nitrogen discharge into Holes Bay. We understand
that the local authority has concluded their assessment
positively which will enable the application to be considered
in the near future. Now that the Twin Sails Bridge has been
opened we are keen to progress the regeneration of this
site. Carters Quay will include a new neighbourhood of 73
family houses with gardens in pedestrian streets that are
well connected to the rest of Hamworthy. The waterside
area will be of mixed use with employment spaces to attract
new companies to Poole, cafes, restaurants and upper level
apartments. Importantly, at last Hamworthy residents will be
able to access the waterfront that surrounds them.
Securing planning consent at Poole
in Dorset
Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
14
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Key challenges in the current financial year
Proposed street scene at Carter’s Quay in Poole, Dorset Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
15
Overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM Business review Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
16
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Key challenges in the current financial year (continued)
Securing consent for St John’s Hospital (southern section)
where our planning application has recently been submitted
for a scheme of 71 houses and 30 apartments. This part of
the hospital is adjacent to the local golf course and the
scheme design takes advantage of the panoramic views by
locating houses along the boundary with an ecological
buffer between the development and the golf course. Inland
purchased the southern section of the hospital after having
earlier acquired the northern section. Consent on the
northern section was granted during the year for 127
houses and apartments, and the development will include
both new build properties and the conversion of some of
the historic buildings.
Securing planning consent at St John’s
Hospital (southern section) in 
Chelmsford, Essex
St John’s will have easy access to Chelmsford City Centre with its rich
heritage, beautiful green spaces, first class leisure and arts facilities, shopping,
dining, vibrant nightlife and excellent road and rail links.
Proposed street scene at St John’s Hospital in Chelmsford, Essex Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
17
Overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
Northern and southern sections of St John’s Hospital in Chelmsford, Essex
Business review Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
18
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Key challenges in the current financial year (continued)
Finalising a development agreement with a
major housebuilder at Ashford Hospital
in Middlesex
Progressing the Development Brief in partnership with the
Local Authority and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation
on our significant new project at Wilton Park in
Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire. This will be the first step
towards securing a formal planning permission. Wilton Park
is a defence establishment sitting within a 90 acre site
which has been declared surplus to requirements. The site
has been allocated within the South Buckinghamshire Local
Plan for up to 300 homes and 100,000 sq ft of commercial
space. A key part of the allocation is a requirement that the
access to the site is via land which has been purchased 
by Inland. 
Finalising a development agreement with a major
housebuilder to develop our site for 152 apartments at
Ashford Hospital in Middlesex. This site is close to the A30,
M25 and is only two miles from Heathrow Airport. Because
of its close proximity to London and good transport links,
the area is a popular commuter town. Our development will
consist of striking modern buildings which will maximise
both the natural light and the westerly views over the
reservoir. Two large courtyards will provide an attractive
backdrop for the benefit of residents and will include a
natural play area where children will be challenged to learn
as well as to play safely.
Progressing the Development Brief at Wilton
Park in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire
Wilton Park in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
19
Overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM Business review
Proposed development at Ashford Hospital in Middlesex
Beaconsfield is located approximately 22 miles west of london and is the largest town in South Buckinghamshire Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Key challenges in the current financial year (continued)
Continuing the development of Drayton
Garden Village in Middlesex. During the
year ended 30 June 2012, we provided a
significant amount of services to DGVL,
including the procurement of the sale of
116 residential plots and a plot for an 80
bed nursing home. The construction of
236 homes and the nursing home is well
under way by the purchasers of the land. The landscaping
works and play areas on the village green have now been
completed. The main boulevard onto the site and a major
part of the spine road have also been finished. Work is due
to start on the retail units and estate management centre at
the entrance to the development, where negotiations are at
an advanced stage for the pre-let of one of the units to a
national food retailer. The combined heat and power centre
and district heating network are now fully operational and
are already providing the first occupants with efficient heat
and hot water. The improvement works to a local parade of
shops will commence in the New Year, which will have a
very positive impact on the surrounding area. On behalf of
DGVL we are reviewing potential options for the next phase
of development at the site. 
Continuing the development of Drayton
Garden Village in Middlesex
DRA YT ON 
GARDEN 
VILLAGE
20
Spine Road into Drayton Garden Village
Proposed street scene at Drayton Garden Village Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
Overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
21
Business review
Spring Green at Drayton Garden Village First homes occupied at Drayton Garden Village Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
22
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Howarth
Minet Drive – a prize winning site
Results
Our associate company, Howarth, is continuing to make
good progress. Due to the increase in their profitability we
have reversed £500,000 of the impairment on our
investment. Howarth is developing 80 plots on 9 sites for
private sale in the South East, including projects in
Chesham and Farnham Common in Buckinghamshire,
Northwood in Middlesex, Rickmansworth in Hertfordshire
and Kensington in London as well as our joint venture 
in Croxley Green in Hertfordshire. They are also 
constructing 165 plots on behalf of third parties including
housing associations. 
Prize winning staff
I should like to congratulate Howarth’s Mr Geoff Turner who
won the NHBC ‘Pride in the Job’ and ‘Seal of Excellence’
awards in the London and South East Region for medium
sized housebuilders as a result of his work on Minet Drive in
Hayes, Middlesex - a site being constructed for Paradigm
Development at Minet Drive in Hayes, Middlesex for Paradigm Housing Association
Geoff Turner of Howarth Homes receiving the NHBC award Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
23
Overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
Successful joint venture at Woodland Chase
Housing Association. Inland obtained the planning consent
and sold the site to Paradigm HA during the year ended 30
June 2011. The achievement of Geoff and the team at Minet
Drive is testament both to their hard work and to the quality
centred cultures at Howarth and Inland. 
Woodland Chase
Our joint venture with Howarth at Woodland Chase in
Croxley Green, Hertfordshire is well advanced on the final
phase of 12 houses backing onto the woodland. Each
home on this luxury development has
been designed in response to how
people live today and has been given
individual character by using different,
but complimentary exteriors across the
site. Having repaid the loan from Investec
Bank in April 2012, the development
was refinanced by Close Brothers in
July 2012, enabling the repayment of
part of our investment.
Business review
Joint venture development at Woodland Chase in Croxley Green, Hertfordshire Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
24
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
Our charity work
The Group is a keen supporter of various charities and is
proud to have supported the British Institute of Brain Injured
Children (BIBIC), Make a Wish Foundation and Jungle City,
a 100% charitable event which supports the work of seven
UK conservation charities. 
I should like to extend my special thanks to the seven
members of the Inland Team who undertook the Three
Peaks Challenge, a gruelling climb of the three highest
peaks in England, Scotland and Wales in 24 hours. They
achieved this in June 2012, overcoming torrential rain and
freezing conditions at the summits, and raised an impressive
£38,000 for BIBIC. This is a national charity offering practical
help to families caring for children with
conditions such as autism, cerebral
palsy, Down’s syndrome,
developmental delay, brain injury,
ADHD, dyslexia and dyspraxia.
The Inland team: Paul Brett, Rob Williams, Nish Malde
Matt Corcoran, Pedro Longras, Des Wicks & Mark Gilpin
One of Jungle City’s brightly painted sculptures used to raise awareness for 
their survival Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
25
Overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
Summary and prospects
The foundations to deliver a successful set of results for the
new financial year have been laid. There is a strong pipeline
of new opportunities being investigated by our team,
although we are extremely discerning as to which projects
fit our very strict criteria for purchase. We are confident a
number of high quality new sites will be secured in the
current financial year and we will continue to add value to
our projects by navigating them through the intricate
planning system and capture the development margin 
on some of our sites by delivering successful 
housing schemes.
In summary, I am confident that our strategy will increase
the value of our asset base in the medium term and deliver
sound returns to our shareholders. 
Stephen Wicks
Chief Executive
25 October 2012
Business review
For more information about Inland visit:
www.inlandplc.com and www.inlandhomes.co.uk
Show home at Queensgate in Farnborough, Hampshire
Proposed street scene at Warwick Gardens 
in Redhill, Surrey
