 10
Inland plc
annual report and 
accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s review
In last year’s review I stated ‘under current conditions 
we are optimistic that an early return to profitability and 
asset growth will be achieved’.
I am pleased to say that, despite the extremely difficult 
banking climate and a grotesque planning system that 
has to be experienced to be believed, Inland has achieved 
those short-term objectives and is looking forward to some 
considerable milestones in the growth of our business.
At our flagship development Drayton Garden Village 
in West London we finally achieved planning permission 
eleven months after submitting the application and 21 months 
after the purchase completion. We spent over £1m on 
planning and professional fees and had to employ over 
25 firms of consultants as part of the process; this was 
on a brownfield site that had an adopted planning brief 
to start with! This is now however a very valuable consent 
for us comprising 773 homes together with commercial 
space including a site for an 80-bed nursing home. 
This planning consent demonstrates that, in my view, 
the Inland team is one of the best in the industry and 
are experts in negotiating a successful way through 
the minefield that is our planning system.
Demolition and site clearance is now well underway 
and the first land sale of the 59 affordable housing plots 
has been exchanged which will result in a gross land 
receipt of £5.1m. Howarth Homes, our associate company 
has secured a £6.9m building contract to construct the 
units for Catalyst Housing Association. We have considerable 
interest in further plots on this site from most of the major 
housebuilders and we expect to announce another land 
sale in the first half of the new financial year.
Investors will recall that this project is being developed with 
a financial partner where Inland expects to receive up to 
90% of the net profit.
Against a backdrop of substantial projected population 
increase and new housebuilding starts at historic lows, 
it defies belief that the new coalition government has 
scrapped regional spatial strategies leaving local authorities 
to decide their own housing targets. It appears that local 
authorities across the country have already abandoned 
plans for over 100,000 new homes as a direct result of this 
new policy. Providing ‘financial incentives’ to local authorities 
to grant consents is fundamentally flawed and introduces 
another layer of confusion into a system already burdened 
by political interference.
Having made significant progress in the last year 
under a very difficult trading environment, I believe 
we are now well placed to make significant progress 
on all of our objectives over the coming period. 11
Inland plc
annual report and 
accounts 2010
our year
corporate governance
financial statements
 group
 company
notice of annual general meeting
At Inland we intend to continue targeting and bringing 
forward large scale complex brownfield sites where, despite 
the painstaking work along the way, we end up with an 
extremely valuable prize at the end of the process.
The new planning regime is likely to increase land shortages 
particularly in the south-east and Inland will be well placed 
to capitalise on this.
Having secured the West Drayton consent, our team 
is now concentrating on achieving consents on the 
remaining sites in our portfolio being Poole, Dorset and 
Hayes, Middlesex which should be capable of producing 
circa 550 units. When these planning permissions are 
received our landbank will comprise of approximately 
1,900 consented plots together with substantial 
commercial space.
The Group is at the early stages of securing a new 
major opportunity that should yield over 400 plots and 
is selectively back in the market looking at new projects.
With the effective withdrawal of bank appetite to fund our 
business model we are working on some initiatives to 
finance a new generation of projects working with a variety 
of joint venture partners and investors.
In the course of the year we signed our first ‘Asset 
Management Agreement’ with a brownfield landowner 
in West London. This agreement requires us to manage 
the planning process on the land to maximise its value 
and enables Inland to participate in the resulting revenue 
subject to certain hurdle rates being achieved. We are 
working on expanding this concept with other landowners 
which will enable us to use our expertise to create 
additional profit centres without using very much capital.
Having returned to profitability our focus and priorities 
going forward are:
A  cash generation to enable early repayment of the 
current bank facility and to provide capital for 
new projects;
A  establishing new relationships with potential funders/
joint venture partners where our development skills 
can be utilised to mutual benefit; and
A  identifying and securing a new generation of large 
scale projects for future asset growth and increasing 
shareholder value.
Having made significant progress in the last year under a 
very difficult trading environment, I believe we are now well 
placed to make significant progress on all of our objectives 
over the coming period.
stephen wicks
cHIEF ExEcuTIvE
