 02   Inland plc   annual report and accounts 2009
We have one of the most 
attractive landbanks in the 
southeast of England and 
are currently reviewing how 
best to achieve the greatest 
return on these assets for 
our shareholders.
cHairman’s 
statement intrOductiOn these results come on the back of a vicious 
downturn in both the general economic climate 
and the housebuilding industry unlike any other 
in recent history. t he effect on the housing market 
has been further exacerbated due to the severe 
constraints in the availability of credit. 
the results for the year ended 30 June 2009 
show an operating loss before exceptional costs 
of £3.93m (2008: operating profit before 
exceptional costs £0.71m) and a loss before tax 
of £10.47m (2008: £4.19m). In line with others 
in the sector, it has been necessary to make 
a substantial writedown in the carrying value 
of our landbank of £3.80m (2008: £4.78m). 
In addition, in the interests of prudence the 
Board has decided to make a full provision 
amounting to £1.43m against the carrying value 
of our associate company which like many 
other housebuilders has also been significantly 
affected by the current downturn in the sector. 
We have also written off a significant amount 
of the deferred tax asset due to the fall in value 
of our site in poole.
OperatiOns the year has been one where we have 
concentrated on preserving cash and as 
a consequence we did not acquire any new 
sites in our own right. our focus has been in 
securing planning consents on the sites in 
our landbank many of which have now been 
obtained on appeal. I am pleased to report 
that during the year we obtained residential 
planning consents on eleven sites for 296 plots 
and 100,000 sq ft of commercial space. 
the varied and attractive nature of our land 
portfolio has meant that although there was 
a general view that no-one was buying land 
with planning consent, we managed to sell 
five sites and two properties during the year 
generating £4.51m of cashflow through the 
most difficult times that the industry has 
had to face, albeit that a number of the 
sales were achieved at values below those 
that had been originally anticipated. 
as reported in the interim statement, the master 
planning process on our joint venture raF 
West drayton has progressed well and we 
anticipate submitting a planning application 
within the next few weeks for approximately 
775 residential units and 65,000 sq ft of 
commercial space that will include a primary 
healthcare centre, a pharmacy and an 80 bed 
care home. the joint venture agreement with 
our partner has been varied whereby in the 
event of a change of control of Inland plc 
prior to receipt of planning consent, our partner 
will be entitled, at any time during the period 
of 60 business days following the date of the 
change of control, to terminate the joint 
venture. In return for agreeing to this variation 
Inland has the ability to charge management 
fees to the joint venture company of up to 
£2.5m. t o date, Inland’s investment 
in the project amounts to £250,000.  annual report and accounts 2009   Inland plc   03
We are no W in a position to move 
the business forW ard from an 
appropriate base and if current 
conditions persist We do not 
envisage further Write do Wns of 
our landbank being required.
our current land portfolio comprises 
approximately 2,080 residential plots and 
290,000 sq ft of commercial space. consent 
has been secured on 690 residential plots. 
the Board believes that on a fully consented 
basis the residential element of our land 
portfolio would have a gross development 
value of approximately £420m, including 
West drayton.
Inland’s original objective was to obtain 
planning consent on the sites it acquired 
before selling them to housebuilders at a profit, 
having added significant value through the 
planning process. In the current climate, in 
order to maximise the value from some of our 
sites the Board is exploring the prospect of 
building out some of the sites either as principals 
or by way of joint ventures. as part of this 
evaluation the Board has selected two sites 
and accordingly we have developed our site in 
Byfleet, surrey as principals and the marketing 
campaign for the 14 two bedroom apartments 
will be launched shortly. the construction of 
this project has been substantially funded by 
way of senior debt provided by a merchant bank 
and secured on the development. We have also 
commenced construction of a showhouse 
complex at Queensgate, Farnborough where 
Inland will develop part of the 370 consented 
plots, again by utilising senior debt finance 
secured against the development. In recent 
weeks there has been a noticeable increase in 
interest from housebuilders in our landbank 
and the Board still expects to sell certain of 
our sites to generate cash where we receive 
offers that match our expectations.
the Board notes that in recent weeks, 
a number of the major housebuilders have 
announced fund raisings in order to facilitate 
further investment in their respective 
businesses including land purchases. 
Financial summary
during the year ended 30 June 2009, the Group 
generated revenue of £5.22m of which £4.51m 
was achieved by way of land sales and £0.71m 
from rental and other income. t he current 
annualised rental income amounts to £726,000 
including £72,000 at ra F West d rayton. 
o verheads have been strictly controlled and 
were reduced by £184,000 over the previous year .
as referred to above, due to deteriorating 
market conditions, we have made a write 
down of £3.80m in the carrying value of our 
land portfolio and we have taken a full provision 
against the carrying value of our investment in 
associate of £1.43m as an exceptional cost.
the Board do not recommend the payment 
of a dividend.
n et assets at 30 June 2009 stood at £40.38m 
(2008: £53.32m) representing 24.9p per share 
at that date. Bank borrowings at the year end 
amounted to £6.57m equating to gearing of 
16.3%. the Group’s revolving credit facility of 
£10m with the royal Bank of scotland expires 
on 15 december 2009 and initial discussions 
have already commenced with the bank and 
the Board has a reasonable expectation for the 
facility to be renewed. a number of our sites 
were purchased on deferred consideration 
terms and we successfully renegotiated the 
terms on four sites so that the payments were 
managed in line with our cash flow. as at the 
date of this report the outstanding deferred 
considerations amounts to £9.50m of which 
£3.50m is due in the current financial year and 
the balance in the following financial year. 
during July 2009, under the authority granted 
at the last annual General Meeting, the Board 
issued 12,665,000 shares at 10p per share 
raising further equity of £1.27m.
Outl OOk there are some signs that whilst weak, the 
market is stabilising and our immediate task 
will be to capitalise on the value of our substantial 
and well located landbank. We are now in a 
position to move the business forward from 
an appropriate base and if current conditions 
persist we do not envisage further write downs 
of our landbank being required. the Board 
remains cautiously optimistic that provided 
conditions do not deteriorate further an early 
return to profitability will now be achieved.
terry rO ydOn chaIrman
