 04   Inland plc   annual report and accounts 2009
this has been an intensely difficult year 
following the sharp decline in the uK housing 
market and the onslaught of a banking crisis 
that has severely restricted the availability of 
credit to both developers and their customers.
the focus over the last year has been very 
much on control and generation of cash and 
the renegotiation of the timing of deferred 
land payments. some of these renegotiations 
were very demanding but I am pleased to 
say we were successful on all counts and 
outstanding land creditors have been reduced 
from £23.8m at June 2008 to £9.5m at the 
date of these financial statements. this was 
achieved within a landscape where banks were 
not really open for business and as stated in our 
Interim r eport we signed up to a bank facility 
of £10m which fell far short of our original 
expectations. as a result we had to work 
hard to achieve the sale of five sites and two 
properties during the second half of the 
financial year, which helped maintain cash flow. 
as referred to in the c hairman’s statement, the 
revolving credit facility of £10m is due to expire 
on 15 december 2009 and we are already in 
discussions with our bank for its renewal. 
I am confident that the facility will be 
renewed prior to its current expiry date.
our small team of only nine has worked 
tirelessly over the last period under difficult 
circumstances for which I am extremely 
grateful; whilst the focus is on the Group’s 
property assets sometimes it is easy to 
overlook the considerable value of our staff. 
I believe our team is one of the best in our 
industry and we also have a superb compliment 
of consultants working alongside us which 
enable us to achieve attractive planning 
consents in a generally very hostile 
planning environment.
as set out in the chairman’s statement 
considerable effort has gone into the 
preparation of the planning application for  
raF West drayton; our joint venture project. 
over the last twelve months our land director, 
paul Brett has led a team of over 20 consultants 
in the preparation of this very complex planning 
application. the detailed master planning of 
this site has been subject to intense negotiation 
with the planners such that we believe we now 
have broad agreement to our proposals from 
l ondon Borough of Hillingdon and once the 
application has been submitted in october 2009 
we anticipate a consent being granted in 
spring 2010.
cHieF 
executive’s 
review queensgate, f arnborough 
a 24.5 acre site with planning 
permission for 399 residential 
properties and 110,000 sq ft 
of commercial space
31 acre raf West drayton site  annual report and accounts 2009   Inland plc   05
Inland’s stated net asset value does not 
reflect the potential value of this project. 
I believe that this will be a very significant profit 
centre for Inland in the future and thus enhance 
shareholders’ funds.
this project which has been renamed ‘drayton 
Garden Village’ is one of the largest brownfield 
developments in the london area and will have 
considerable ‘green credentials’ including 
combined heat and power, traffic-free home 
zones and spacious amenity areas.
our landbank comprises of 16 sites, all of 
which are within easy reach from london and 
situated in appealing locations. the majority 
of the planning consents are for houses as 
opposed to apartments, which is where the 
demand is stronger. the value of our portfolio 
has been affected significantly due to the 
severe fall in house prices, but thankfully 
we are beginning to see some stabilisation 
in the market.
the focus going forward for the foreseeable 
future will be based on the following strategy:
A  no further land purchases unless we have 
a joint venture partner to underwrite the 
project using our planning skills to maximise 
the project.
A  Joint ventures with major housebuilders 
or investors where development on our 
land is funded by those parties.
A  Maintaining and increasing where possible 
our commercial rental income (currently 
at circa £726,000 per annum).
A  a selective ‘build out’ of some of our 
land bank subject to satisfactory funding 
being available.
despite the difficult market conditions that 
have been experienced the fundamentals of 
our business remain sound, land with planning 
permission in attractive locations remains a 
very scarce commodity.
Most of the major quoted housebuilders have 
recapitalised their balance sheets and we are 
seeing renewed interest in land purchases from 
these parties. under current conditions we are 
optimistic that an early return to profitability 
and asset growth will be achieved.
stepHen wicks chIEf ExEcutIvE
under current conditions We are 
optimistic that an early return to 
profitability and asset gro Wth 
Will be achieved.
