 Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
04
Q&A with the Chief Executive
Q1. Why did you structure the purchase of
Drayton Garden Village in an off balance 
sheet vehicle?
A. Contracts to purchase Drayton Garden Village for
£24.25m were exchanged in December 2008 at the depths
of the financial crisis with a substantial amount of the
consideration deferred for four years. In order to protect the
Group from this potential liability the Board approved a
purchase that was non-recourse to the Group.
Q2. What will be the growth drivers in the 
short term?
A. I believe that the Group’s growth in the short term will
come from the realisation of cash from our projects in
Farnborough, Poole and Ashford which we will reinvest into
new opportunities that we are working on.
Q3. What do you think about the government’s
current plans for the planning system?
A. Until planning decisions are made by people that are not
involved in politics, local government will take little heed of
pronouncements made by central government.  
Q4. There has been a recent focus on
housebuilding – do management believe this will
become an even more significant part of the
business in the short and medium term?
A. The current strategy is to increase our housebuilding
activity by developing some of our land bank. This will
enable us to capture the development margin of those
projects. However, the major part of our business will
continue to focus on increasing the number of plots within
our land bank, which will include disposals of some plots.
Housebuilding activities also enables us to attract
mainstream funding and improve our cash flow.
Q5. How does Inland plan to grow the underlying
net asset value over the next few years?
A. The underlying net asset value will increase by a
combination of:
• Extracting some of the development margin from the plots
within our land bank as a contribution towards our
overheads
• Realising value from the sites purchased prior to the
financial crisis 
• Securing new land opportunities to add value through the
planning process. 
We also expect to carry out joint ventures with major
housebuilders on a number of key sites.
Stephen Wicks
