 24303.04    10 November 2015 12:43 PM   proof 6
Q&A oN St RAteg y w It H Ceo Step HeN w ICkS
our target is to increase the land bank by net  
10% by the end of June 2016
Find out more about our  
business model on pages 11 to 13 
Read more online at 
www.inlandhomes.co.uk 
Q
 Cou Ld you exp LAIN t He LogIC be HINd t HIS 
SIgNIFICANt g Rowt H IN Hou Sebu ILdINg ACt IvIty ANd 
do you INte Nd to CoNt INue t HIS IN Futu Re?
A
 Inland Homes is all about extracting maximum value from its 
well-located land bank. our strategy of acquiring brownfield 
sites at the pre-planning stage and our long track record of 
planning success positions the Group as a housebuilder with 
exceptional skills in large-scale brownfield development. we 
have capitalised on favourable market conditions in order to 
significantly increase our housebuilding activity. we intend 
to maintain our growth strategy to enhance our land bank; 
however, should there be a change in these conditions, the 
Company may realign its strategy accordingly. 
Q
 INLANd Home S’ LANd b ANk HAS INCReASed 
CoNSIde RAbLy to ove R 5,000 pLot S. wHAt IS you R 
t ARget FoR gRowt H ove R t He Next 12 mo Nt HS? 
A
 our target is to increase the land bank by net 10% by the end 
of June 2016. The Group has exhibited solid performance 
throughout the financial year and exceeded consensus 
estimates. we have a strong land bank in which I am 
confident that other housebuilders will see the development 
opportunity. As and when we deem it financially beneficial to 
the Company, we will sell sites to other housebuilders.
Q
 wHICH oF you R CuRReNt p RoJeCt S do you expe Ct to 
be t He p RImARy CASH ge NeRAt oRS IN t He FINANCIAL 
ye AR eNdINg 30 Ju Ne 2016? 
A
 Inland Homes is currently working on a number of projects 
that will be cash generative in the current year. one of the 
most notable developments is expected to be Meridian Tv 
Studios in Southampton. Additionally, our joint venture with 
CPC Group Limited to develop the Brooklands College site 
in Ashford, Middlesex, will accommodate approximately 300 
new homes, subject to planning permission, and has a gross 
development value in the order of £90m. 
Q
 dId t He p Re-e LeCt IoN uNCeRt AINty IN t He uk HAve 
ANy ImpACt oN t He Comp ANy’S gRowt H St RAteg y?
A
 The market cooled slightly ahead of the general election; 
there was a decrease in activity across the sector. The 
uncertainty over the general election impacted the housing 
market as mortgage and housing approvals slowed down. 
Despite this, we exceeded our land bank growth estimates 
for the year and the market has picked up under the new 
Government.
Q
 LASt ye AR you we Re ve Ry po SIt Ive About dRAyto N 
gARde N vILLAge ; CAN you upd Ate uS oN t He 
pRogReSS?
A
 Drayton Garden village has had its most successful year yet 
and is now approaching its end. In June 2015, 205 apartment 
building plots were sold to a national housebuilder for £19m. 
This was the last significant parcel of land on the site. A 
phase of 43 housing units is being built by Inland and 13 
of these had completed at the year end at prices in excess 
of budget. we intend to obtain planning on eight more 
apartment plots in the next few months.
Stephen w icks Chief Executive Officer
16
www.inlandhomes.co.uk Inland Homes plc  
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 24303.04    10 November 2015 12:43 PM   proof 6
Q
 INLANd Home S HAS moved INto t He p RIvAte ReNt AL 
SeCt oR FoLLow INg t He ACQuISIt IoN oF 76 Hou SeS 
At t He Comp ANy’S wILt oN pARk, beACoNSFIeLd 
deve Lop meNt. wHAt ImpACt w ILL t HIS HAve oN 
t He bu SINeSS movINg FoRwARd? do you INte Nd to 
INCReASe t He Numbe R oF ReNt AL pRope Rt IeS ow Ned 
IN t He CuRReNt FINANCIAL ye AR? 
A
 we intend to hold the existing houses as investment 
properties, where significant value uplift is envisaged over 
the cost of these properties. we have already agreed to lease 
31 of these houses, which confirms the strong demand for 
rental stock. once fully let the 76 houses are expected to 
generate gross rental income in excess of £1m per annum. 
There are other short term income generating opportunities 
that the Group is in the course of securing, whilst the scheme 
is being progressed for the wider development of this site. 
The private rental sector in the South East continues to play 
an important role in providing people with opportunities to 
rent good quality housing and we will assess the commercial 
viability of investing in sites that have existing rental 
properties. 
Q
 tH e Comp ANy IS HeAvILy expo Sed to p Rope Rt y 
pRICeS ANd dem ANd IN t He Sout H eASt; do you HAve 
ANy CoNCeRNS ove R t He pote Nt IAL FoR gRowt H IN 
t He mARket, p ARt ICuLARLy IF INte ReSt RAte S St ARt 
to RISe?
A
 Historical growth trends show that housing demand and, 
consequently, house prices tend to increase faster in the 
South East as compared to the rest of the UK. As London 
is an international hub, as well as the UK’s capital city, we 
are confident that demand for jobs and homes will continue 
to increase demand for housebuilders. Growth forecasts 
suggest that employment in the South East will increase over 
the next decade, which gives us confidence in our strategy to 
focus on developing brownfield sites in this region. 
Q
 wHAt ImpACt HAS t He He Lp to buy SCHeme HAd  
oN t He gRoup ?
A
 The Help to Buy scheme is expected to help an additional 
120,000 households to buy a new build home by 2020. In 
2015, the Group sold 31% of its open market units through 
the Government’s Help to Buy. Under the scheme, the 
Government provides up to 20% of the purchase price, which 
they send to us on completion, and this allows the purchaser 
to exchange contracts with us for a 5% deposit.
Our Governance
Our Financials
Shareholder Information
Stock Code: INL
Strategic Report
17
