 Inland plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
08 | OveRview
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that the 
year ended 30 June 2011 has 
seen an excellent performance 
by Inland.
This has produced a substantial 
increase in both revenue and 
profitability over the previous 
period as well as significantly 
lower levels of debt. 
RESuLTS
Total turnover resulting from land 
and property sales, rental income and 
project management fees was £21.4m 
(2010: £16.5m), operating profit was 
£3.5m (2010: £2.0m) and profit before 
tax was £3.5m (2010: £1.1m). Earnings 
per share have increased by 208.8% 
from 0.68p to 2.10p. Net asset value per 
share was 26.49p, an increase of 9.0% 
over the previous period (2010: 24.30p). 
As I stated in the Interim Report, this 
figure excludes any future value from 
the Drayton Garden Village Development 
Services Agreement, where Inland has 
the potential of earning up to 90% of 
the profit from this development as a 
result of the development services 
Inland expects to be able to provide. 
The Directors believe that our potential 
share of the future profits from this 
project could be approximately £18m and 
is equivalent to 7p per share net of tax.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Inland achieved the sale of 256 building 
plots during the year, an increase of 62% 
compared to the corresponding period. 
This strong performance demonstrates 
the ongoing demand for development 
land in the South East of England, 
a trend that we believe looks set to 
continue irrespective of the general 
weakness in the house building industry 
elsewhere in the UK. Of particular note 
in the year was the sale of 65 plots 
for affordable homes in Minet Drive, 
Hayes, Middlesex to a major housing 
association. We succeeded in securing 
planning permission for this site seven 
weeks from submission of the planning 
application after initially having lost 
a planning appeal. This has enabled the 
Directors to maintain their unbroken 
track record of obtaining consents 
on their projects; an outstanding 
performance in today’s very hostile 
planning environment!
Drayton Garden Village, a ‘flagship’ 
development of 773 plots with 
commercial space in West London 
to which we provide significant 
development services, continues 
to make considerable progress. 
Key milestones in this project were 
the sale of 89 plots to a substantial 
private house builder for £9.5m plus, 
a contribution of £630,000 towards 
‘Section 106’ payments and a further 
sale (conditional on detailed planning 
consent) of a plot for an 80 bed nursing 
 A Strategy continues to evolve.
 A Increase the scale of our house 
building activities.
 A Strong performance over the 
last twelve months.
 A Confident about our strategy 
and prospects for the future.
Future growth strategy Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Inland plc
09
Overview Business review Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements
home for £1.8m which is expected 
to complete in the second half of the 
current financial period. Gross receipts 
to date from land sales at Drayton Garden 
Village are £15.2m. Inland’s share of 
the profits of DGVL to 30 June 2011 is 
£4m. At the year end, the total amount 
of deferred consideration payments due 
on this site amounted to £14m of which 
£7m falls due after more than one year. 
Having completed demolition and land 
remediation, DGVL ’s focus is now on 
installing the infrastructure at Drayton 
Garden Village and I am pleased to 
report that with our assistance roads, 
drainage and the first of the village 
greens are nearing completion. The 
combined heat and power network 
and energy centre are now also well 
underway. During the course of the 
year Drayton Garden Village won the 
coveted Land Award by Sustain Magazine, 
recognising our achievements in 
managing the energy conservation 
and sustainable development.
I am pleased to report that we completed 
the sale of 31 homes at our Queensgate, 
Farnborough development achieving 
a development contribution of £576,000. 
We will shortly commence building 
the next phase of 19 homes on this 
development, which are mainly two 
bedroom houses, with construction 
finance provided by Close Property 
Finance. A revised planning application 
for the balance of the site (approximately 
270 plots) with an improved layout and 
mix has now been submitted. We also 
intend to start the construction of our 
Redhill, Surrey development in early 
2012. This residential development 
of 28 units is in an attractive location 
which we believe will be popular 
with homebuyers.
In light of the changes in the marketplace, 
our strategy continues to evolve and we 
have made a conscious decision to 
increase the scale of our house building 
activities on specific sites under our 
control, following the successful 
conclusion of the planning process. 
On our larger projects, this strategy will 
not only improve the value of the 
remaining land but will also allow Inland 
to retain the development profit, thereby 
further enhancing shareholder value. 
This approach will be carefully balanced 
to ensure the Group’s cash flows are 
sufficient to enable us to take this longer 
term view. The Board is also proposing 
a resolution at the next Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) to change the Company’s 
name to Inland Homes plc.
The first phase of work on the £2m link 
road for the new Twin Sails Bridge in 
Poole, Dorset has now been completed. 
The planning application for our 
development has now been submitted 
for approximately 270 homes and over 
100,000 sq ft of commercial space. 
This is a momentous achievement for 
our planning team as the site in Poole 
will be a significant redevelopment 
project for the region.
I am also pleased to report that 
since the year end, we have contracted 
to purchase part of St John’s Hospital 
in Chelmsford, Essex. This 6.5 acre 
brownfield site should gain a consent 
for approximately 125 homes.
The current land bank under 
the Group’s control consists of 
approximately 965 residential plots 
and 205,000 sq ft of commercial space 
of which 484 plots and 97,000 sq ft 
of commercial space is consented. 
In addition the Drayton Garden Village 
development has 625 residential plots 
and 55,000 sq ft of commercial space 
with planning permission.
It gives me great pleasure to 
also report that Paul Brett has been 
appointed as Land Director to the Board 
of Inland plc. Paul joined the Inland 
Group in August 2005 and has extensive 
experience in identifying brownfield 
land and in the complex processes 
of the planning system.
FINANCIAL SuMMARy
The net profit for the year ended 
30 June 2011 was £3.8m (2010: £1.2m) 
which represents earnings per share 
of 2.10p (2010: 0.68p).
As reported previously to shareholders, 
despite a track record with Royal Bank 
of Scotland stretching back over many 
years, the bank behaved in a precipitous 
manner with regard to our banking 
facilities, reducing the amounts available 
to Inland and introducing penal terms 
that were unpalatable. As a consequence 
the Board decided to make a full 
repayment at the earliest possible 
opportunity to avoid these exorbitant 
fees and enable Inland to exit the 
‘relationship’. I am pleased to report 
that the bank was repaid in full in 
December 2010. 
Whilst the Group is seeking a new 
senior banking relationship and some 
positive discussions are taking place, 
interim funding is being achieved from 
sales and loans from private investors. 
However, bank finance for house building 
is now more readily available than in 
recent years.
By the year end all deferred 
consideration on land purchases 
by the Group were paid (2010: £6m 
outstanding); net debt at the year end 
stood at £0.42m (2010: £6.72m) translating 
to net gearing (including deferred 
consideration) of 0.9% (2010: 34.2%).
In view of the progress achieved by 
the Group, the Board has resolved to 
eliminate the deficit in reserves and a 
resolution will be proposed at the next 
AGM for the capitalisation of the Parent 
Company’s reserves to pave the way for 
distributions to be made in the future.
INVESTMENTS
Our associate company Howarth 
Homes plc (Howarth) made considerable 
progress in the year, increasing both 
turnover and profitability. Howarth 
secured £14m of contracts to build 
affordable housing on sites where the 
Housing Associations purchased the 
land from Inland.
Howarth is project managing a complex 
infrastructure package for Inland at 
Drayton Garden Village as well as 
working in partnership with us on the 
Croxley Green joint venture of 51 houses.
OuTLOOk
Inland’s strong performance over the 
last twelve months is in stark contrast 
to the broader economic outlook in the 
UK. Our strategy of pursuing complex, 
large scale projects where our expertise 
can create substantially increased value 
is now starting to show tangible results.
With Inland’s development focus in 
the South East and our portfolio and 
pipeline now generating exciting new 
opportunities, we remain confident 
about our strategy and prospects 
for the future.
Terry Roydon
CHAiRMAN
17 October 2011
