 05
INLAND PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
CHIeF exeCutIve’s 
revIew
2008 has seen a devastating fall in both house 
prices and consumer and investor confidence. 
With severe problems now extending to the 
banking sector and the economy generally, it 
is clear that it will be some considerable time 
before our industry returns to ‘normal’.
What does normal mean? Despite the undoubted 
need for decent homes in the areas in which 
we operate, housebuilding starts are now 
reducing to levels not seen for many years.
It is clear to me that to achieve Government targets to 
provide good affordable homes in substantial numbers a 
radical rethink of how our industry operates is required.
The national obsession with home ownership is likely to 
change; with one of the highest levels of owner occupation 
in the western world it may have already reached its peak.
To move away from the ‘boom and bust’ environment in 
which our industry operates it is necessary to quickly and 
radically change the tenure and structure of housing.
At the moment home ownership is at one end of the 
spectrum with social housing at the other, private 
rental is a ‘twilight zone’ somewhere in the middle 
dominated by buy to let investors who have little regard 
for their tenants and their security of tenure.
Warren r oad, r eigate
WARREN ROAD, REIGATE IS SITUATED ON A FORMER 
DAIRy SITE WITh IN Th REE MINUTES OF Th E RAILWAy 
STATION.  Th E PROPOSALS INCLUDE 40 ONE AND 
TWO BEDROOM RESIDENTIAL APARTMENTS WITh 
LANDSCAPING, PARk ING AND AMENITIES Wh ILST ALSO 
PROv IDING Ov ER 10,000 SQ FT OF COMMERCIAL SPACE.
STephen Wi Ck S
> 06
INLAND PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
The ‘new housing world’ requires a radical new form 
of lease that will enable a long term rental sector 
to emerge satisfying both the needs of investors 
and occupiers. The Government needs to recognise 
that if offered with more tenant security, the private 
rented sector could be an appropriate affordable or 
intermediate housing option stimulating competition 
for quality and attracting increasing investment.
With most ‘speculative’ house builders no longer 
currently buying development land Inland is seeking 
new ‘customers’ for its development sites as they are 
brought through the planning system. In housing these 
will include registered social landlords and we expect 
to sell some sites for hotel and healthcare operators.
h aving acquired 20 development sites by 30 June 
2008 which have the potential for approximately 
1,460 plots and 253,000 square feet of commercial 
space, we secured planning on four sites totalling 468 
residential plots and 105,000 square feet of commercial 
space. During the year we sold 98 of these plots.
We had hoped to receive planning consent on considerably 
more sites in the year but the planning system has 
continued to deteriorate and whilst all but one of our 
unconsented sites have planning applications submitted an 
unprecedented 50% are now subject to planning appeals, 
a process which is both costly and time consuming.
As set out in the Chairman’s Statement it was 
appropriate to write down £4.783 million from the 
carrying value of our land bank to take account of 
declining market conditions. Accounting standards do 
not allow us to recognise any increase in value on some 
of our sites where we believe we have a surplus.
During the year the Group generated revenue of 
£11.0 million (2007: £5.5 million) principally from the 
sale of 98 plots across three sites. Of particular note 
was the sale of the first 60 plots at our Farnborough 
site where 47 units will be built as affordable housing 
in conjunction with a housing association.
These homes will be built by our associate company, 
h owarth h omes. We expect to increase the amount of activity 
in the affordable homes sector as set out earlier in this 
statement and wherever appropriate we intend to negotiate 
the building of these developments via h owarth h omes.
For the moment our focus is on obtaining planning 
permissions on the balance of our portfolio and 
achieving some further land sales which will generate 
cash to reinvest in new projects at rebased prices.
With an extremely sensitive banking climate it is not 
appropriate to have much more than modest gearing. 
We are fortunate to have a strong balance sheet and 
short term rental income of £636,000 per annum.
Despite the dreadful market conditions our small 
team which has a good track record and considerable 
experience in the sector will adapt to the new environment 
which we find ourselves in and are determined to 
grow the long term value for our shareholders.
ste phen W icks
Chief exeC u Tive
> CHIeF exeCutIve’s 
revIew continued
WE h AvE AN ExCELLENT AND 
CAPABLE TEAM IN PLACE AND 
ARE ThEREFORE CONFIDENT 
OF AChIEvING GOOD RETURNS 
FOR OUR Sh AREhOLDERS 
IN ThE LONGER TERM
