 I am pleased to report that the Group has made
positive progress across the various facets of its
business, which is reflected in the continuing growth
in our land bank and the additional consents which
have been secured on the back of on-going strong
demand for housing land in the South of England.
As shareholders are also aware, it is the Board’s objective to
maximise the value of each land sale and not to take a
reduced consideration just to suit financial reporting periods.
With this policy in mind, a land sale that was expected to
generate a profit contribution of approximately £2.0 million in
the year ended 30 June 2012 did not conclude as originally
anticipated prior to the year end. In relation to this
transaction, negotiations continue with a potential buyer and
we hope to report a conclusion on this sale in the near future.
As announced in July 2012, whilst Inland’s profit expectation
for the year under review was adjusted accordingly, this has
not had any impact on the Group’s underlying net asset
value which remains robust.
Although during the twelve month period the Group did not
conclude the sales of any building plots and completed only
nine residential unit sales compared to 35 in the previous
year, I am pleased to report that since the start of the new
financial year we have completed the sale of 44 plots to a
national housebuilder at our Queensgate development for a
consideration of £3.14 million and contracts have been
issued for the sale of a further 283 plots on 3 other sites.
We have also completed the sale of 14 residential units
since the year end.
Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
06
Chairman’s statement
The year’s focus has been on
improving the quality of our 
land holdings by acquiring or
controlling new sites, 
re-negotiating planning
agreements and securing 
further consents.
“
”
Future 
Growth Strategy
➛ Maximising development value
through housebuilding
➛ Selling parcels of land with
planning consent
➛ Acquiring new sites and gaining
planning consent
➛ Joint ventures with major
housebuilders Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
07
Overview Business review Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
Adding value through the
expansion of our
housebuilding programme
Landmark development of apartments at Queensgate in Farnborough Inland Homes plc | Report and Accounts 2012
08
Chairman’s statement (continued)
Financial results
Consequently, as a result of the above factors, turnover
from land and house sales, rental income and project
management fees in the year was £6.1 million (2011: £21.4
million). Operating profit was £1.1 million (2011: £3.5 million)
and profit before tax was £1.6 million (2011: £3.5 million).
Earnings per share was 0.41 pence (2011: 2.10 pence)
whilst net asset value per share increased to 27.0 pence
(2011: 26.5 pence).
Once again, these financial results exclude any future value
from the Drayton Garden Village (DGV) development
services agreement where Inland expects to secure 90% of
the profit from this project.
During the period Drayton Garden Village Ltd (DGVL) sold
116 plots and some land with planning consent for an 
80 bed nursing home for a total consideration of £8.5
million. The Directors believe that Inland’s share of the future
profits from this project could be in the order of £13.0
million which is equivalent to 5.0 pence per ordinary share
net of tax. These projections are based on selling serviced
plots to UK housebuilders and may be substantially
enhanced if DGVL was to ‘build out’ parts of the site.
In addition to the 116 plots sold at DGV, the Group sold a
further 67 consented plots on behalf of a client under an
asset management agreement.
Dividend
The Board is proposing to recommend a maiden dividend
of 0.067 pence per share. If approved by shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting on 27 November 2012, the final
dividend will be paid on 17 December 2012 to members on
the register at the close of business on 16 November 2012.
The ex-dividend date will be 14 November 2012.
Operational review
HOUSEBUILDING - A key focus of the Group has been to
increase our housebuilding programme. This enables Inland
to capture the development margin on projects, thereby
enhancing the overall returns to shareholders.
In light of the success of our embryonic housebuilding
programme, we expect to increase this activity by building
out part of our land bank as well as continuing to sell
consented building land to housebuilders.
Queensgate, Farnborough, Hampshire - During the
year nine new homes (2011: 31) were sold for a total
consideration of £1.7 million (2011: £6.4 million) at
good margins, with a further 14 units completed after
the June 2012 year end.
Construction has also commenced on a further phase
of 56 units, of which 20 units will be pre-sold to a
Housing Association. This will be followed by a further
44 units for which detailed planning consent is currently
being sought. The Group has successfully secured a
revolving facility of £1.9 million from the Homes and
Communities Agency under the ‘Get Britain Building’
initiative to fund the construction of these homes.
Warwick Gardens, Redhill, Surrey - We have recently
opened a show-house and marketing suite for the
launch of this new development of 28 units; early
indications are encouraging, having received a 
number of reservations at prices higher than our 
original expectations.
LAND HOLDINGS Summarising the activities at each of the
current key sites:
Drayton Garden Village, West Drayton, Middlesex -
Within DGVL, consent was originally gained for 773
homes and commercial space. Inland provides
significant development services and there have been
considerable steps forward during the period under
review. Substantial progress has been made with the
infrastructure on the site and the state of the art energy
centre has been completed and is operational.
Sales at DGV include 88 plots to a private housebuilder,
28 plots for shared-ownership to a Housing Association
and the sale of land with planning consent for an 80
bed nursing home.
I am also pleased to report that negotiations are at an
advanced stage for the pre-let of a 4,000 sq ft
neighbourhood foodstore to a national retailer on this site.
Queensgate, Farnborough, Hampshire - We have
successfully re-negotiated the Section 106 Agreement
to reduce the affordable housing element down from
35% to 20% and improve the sales mix to reflect
current market conditions. Since the year end we sold
44 building plots to a major housebuilder for £3.14
million and completed the sale of 14 residential units.
Within Queensgate, Inland has 213 plots remaining. 
Ashford Hospital, Middlesex - We have successfully
negotiated a variation to the Section 106 Agreement
that has had the effect of reducing the affordable
housing element of the planned scheme from 35% to
nil. This is a major step forward and will enable this
development of 152 units to commence shortly.
We are in advanced negotiations to embark on a
development agreement with a major UK housebuilder
on this site, where Inland will provide the consented Report and Accounts 2012 | Inland Homes plc
09
Overview Business review Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Notice of AGM
land, with our partner managing and funding the
construction and the sale of the completed units. If, as
we anticipate, this venture proves successful, we intend
to use this template to enter into further development
projects on other sites in due course. 
St John’s Hospital, Chelmsford, Essex - Planning
permission was secured for 127 homes on the northern
section of the development site, of which only 14 will be
affordable shared ownership units. We have also
completed the purchase of the southern section of the
same site, where we will shortly be making a planning
application for approximately 100 units including
detached houses, some of which will back on to the
local golf course.
Carter’s Quay, Poole, Dorset - Negotiations are
continuing with the Local Authority regarding this site
and our current planning application for 268 homes and
108,000 sq ft of commercial space. We expect a
decision on this during the current financial year.
Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire - At the half year, we
touched on a significant new opportunity in a prime part
of Buckinghamshire where Inland had secured an
interest in land of strategic access importance. The
Group has purchased 20 acres of land adjoining a site
which has been allocated for the development of
approximately 300 homes in the local plan.
During the year the land bank was strengthened by 742
new plots and the current land bank comprises:
Owned with consent 706
Drayton Garden Village and other 
managed sites with consent 509 
Owned/contracted without consent 
(allocated for development) 380 
Sites controlled or terms agreed 
(allocated for development) 347 
Total plots: 1,942
PEOPLE - Once again, on behalf of the Board and all
Stakeholders, I would like to express appreciation and
thanks to the Inland team at all levels for their hard work
and dedication in what is a tough and challenging planning
and operating environment. Their knowledge and expertise
remain an invaluable and important asset that is providing 
a solid base for the Group’s and other Stakeholders’ 
future success. 
INVESTMENTS - Our associate company, Howarth Homes
plc (Howarth) made progress in the year. Howarth’s turnover
for the financial year ended 31 July 2012 was £22.4 million
(2011: £24.2 million), producing improved pre-tax profits
from £0.6 million to £0.8 million. Howarth’s current
construction order book remains healthy, standing at 
£41.0 million.
Within our joint development with Howarth at Woodland
Chase, Croxley Green, Hertfordshire, 14 homes were sold in
the period. The last phase, comprising 12 houses, is now
under construction and it is anticipated that this successful
development will be fully completed by the next period end.
Outlook
The year’s focus has been on improving the quality of our
land holdings by acquiring or controlling new sites, re-
negotiating planning agreements and securing further
consents. We are concentrating on generating cash and
profit from the existing land portfolio and adding further
value through the expansion of our housebuilding programme.
We have a number of current projects at various stages, as
well as new opportunities being researched and undertaken;
as a Board we remain confident about the future.
Terry Roydon
CHAIRMAN
25 October 2012
Proposed street scene at St John’s Hospital in Chelmsford, Essex
