 Inland plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
10 | BUSiNeSS Review
Chief Executive’s review
Mark Twain said ‘buy land they’re not 
making it anymore’, therein lies Inland’s 
opportunity and also the major issue 
that besets our industry.
The fear and paranoia of anti‑development 
groups in the UK who believe that 
house builders are hell‑bent on 
‘concreting over the countryside’ sets 
the scene for how the public at large 
and regulatory bodies view development 
and developers.
If this deeply embedded anxiety and 
fear of development could be set aside 
for a moment perhaps house builders 
could be seen for what they are, simply 
manufacturers of a product that 
requires a raw material – land with 
planning permission.
Last year saw the lowest number of 
new homes built for 90 years and as 
the country’s housing crisis escalates, 
there are serious side effects: over 
5 million people are on local authority 
waiting lists; millions more live in 
overcrowded and substandard 
accommodation against a backdrop 
of a rapidly rising population.
The recently announced national 
planning policy framework showed 
signs that the Government was waking 
up at last to the regulatory burdens that 
the housing industry is weighed down 
with. Unfortunately, anti‑development 
groups are succeeding in ‘watering 
down’ this initiative by ill‑informed 
propaganda that creates the fear and 
paranoia I refer to above.
House builders, and numerous 
companies in the supply chain, want 
to go to work and build the homes 
the country desperately needs. The 
Government must stand firm on its 
commitment to be pro‑growth and 
create a framework in which local 
authorities are required to encourage 
the house building that is so vital to 
our economy and the needs of 
ordinary people.
Looking back on the last year I am 
pleased that, notwithstanding the very 
tough planning, financial and economic 
climate in which we operate, our small 
team at Inland performed exceptionally 
well at every level.
Of particular note was the complete 
repayment of our facilities with Royal 
Bank of Scotland, leaving us with much 
lower net debt levels compared to the 
prior year (2011: £0.4m; 2010: £6.7m) 
and a record number of building plots 
sold, which helped to produce this very 
good set of results for shareholders.
Mainstream funding for buying 
brownfield land without planning 
permission is very difficult to find 
in the current climate and the Group 
therefore relies on its cashflows and 
has re‑appraised the way in which it 
fulfils its capital requirements.
 A Our development pipeline 
has never been stronger and 
we continue to see further 
opportunities across the 
South East.
 A Despite the broader market 
uncertainty we remain upbeat 
and believe the next twelve 
months will deliver another 
period of growth for Inland.
A strong performance Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Inland plc
Overview Business review Corporate governance Group financial statements Company financial statements
11
To this end I am pleased to report that 
the Group is at an advanced stage of 
negotiations with a number of parties 
to draw down new lines of funding 
secured on our unencumbered assets. 
Whilst this source of funding will be 
more costly than conventional bank 
facilities, it will be available for up to 
three years and will create new core 
capital to expand the business. We are 
expecting to raise approximately 
£15m via this route.
As set out in the Chairman’s Statement 
we will be increasing our direct house 
building and intend to commence 47 units 
on two sites shortly. This house building 
will take place on prime plots within our 
existing land bank. Subject to performance 
we would expect to further increase the 
scale of these activities substantially 
over the next few years. I believe that 
this will provide improved access to bank 
finance and also enable the Group to 
receive the development contribution, 
thus enhancing shareholder value.
Drayton Garden Village continues 
to evolve. With further land sales in 
the pipeline, a modern combined heat 
and power system, which targets a 
43% carbon reduction, is the subject 
of considerable industry interest. 
Sir Brian Hoskins, an eminent and 
world leading authority on climate 
change and an advisor to the 
Government on this subject, showed 
his support for the efforts being 
made at the development by visiting 
the project recently.
Despite a very competitive market 
for unconsented land we have a good 
forward pipeline that we are working 
on. These projects would provide a 
further 900 plots and included in that 
number is the former St John’s Hospital 
in Chelmsford where we have exchanged 
contracts on the northern section and 
expect to make a planning application 
for approximately 125 units within this 
calendar year.
We have also submitted a planning 
application on our regeneration project 
in Poole, Dorset for approximately 
270 homes and over 100,000 sq ft of 
mixed use space. This project is part 
of the Holes Bay regeneration scheme, 
one of the largest brownfield projects 
in the south west of England, and we 
are very enthusiastic about the 
prospects for this development.
A revised planning application on 
our land at Queensgate, Farnborough 
has been submitted, for a scheme of 
approximately 270 units with an improved 
mix that should enhance the value of 
this development.
We have recently secured a resolution 
to grant consent on one of our first 
‘asset management agreements’ for 
67 units in the London Borough of 
Hounslow. We expect to earn project 
management fees and reimbursement 
of our costs when this land is sold. 
We are working hard to secure further, 
similar agreements which will enable 
Inland to use its planning expertise to 
create additional income streams with 
a low capital outlay.
I endorse our Chairman’s comments 
on the appointment of my colleague 
Paul Brett to the Board. This promotion 
is much deserved and, having worked 
with Paul for the last 16 years, I can 
assure shareholders that he is a great 
asset to our business. Bearing in mind 
my advancing age it is good to see 
some ‘younger blood’ coming in!
Inland has demonstrated over the last 
two years that, despite the constraints 
I have outlined in my review, we have 
been able to grow the business, return 
to profitability, reduce our gearing and 
adapt our strategy accordingly.
I feel very confident that Inland will 
make considerable progress during 
the current financial year.
Stephen Wicks
CHieF exeCUTive
17 October 2011
“ I am delighted with the strong performance of Inland 
over the last twelve months. Despite the ongoing 
difficulties of the planning system, we are able to 
secure favourable consents, but, more importantly, 
generate profitable outcomes which will continue 
to underpin the prospects for Inland.”
