 Overall, it has been an important year in the 
progress of Intelligent Energy. We have a path 
forward in place and there is great momentum 
across the Group.
Chairman’s statement
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
I am pleased to present Intelligent Energy’s 
annual results, the second since the 
Company’s admission to the Main Market  
of the London Stock Exchange in July 2014.
Overview
It has been a very important and challenging 
year for Intelligent Energy. We have world-class 
fuel cell technology that puts us at the forefront 
of changing energy markets, and our focus is 
on commercialising that technology across  
our three target end markets. We have taken  
a number of important steps forward as we 
continue to focus on this objective.
Commercial progress
The most important step forward in 
commercialising our technology during  
the year was the signing of an agreement 
with GTL in September 2015 to acquire its 
energy management business, including 
10-year customer contracts worth  
£1.2 billion. This transaction will be closed  
as soon as the Conditions Precedent  
have been satisfied and we expect this  
to happen over the coming months. 
Through this agreement, we will provide 
efficient, clean and economical energy  
to over 27 ,400 telecom towers in India.  
This was a landmark transaction both for 
Intelligent Energy and the fuel cell industry 
more generally. This deal delivers high 
quality short and long-term revenues and 
importantly provides a proof of concept  
and model for similar opportunities across 
both the Indian and global telecom markets 
and the diesel generator market.
For the Motive division, through the year 
we have seen a great deal of industry news 
flow which all points toward the increased 
adoption of hydrogen fuel cells. This is 
reassuring and we are working closely with 
a number of the major car manufacturers, 
who continue to validate the strength of 
our technology. 
Progress within CE continues to be made  
on accelerating our technology development 
to the stage where fuel cells will be 
incorporated within our partners’ products.  
A significant step was taken in April 201 5 when 
we acquired important intellectual property 
assets from Société BIC. Encouragingly, we are 
already seeing significant interest from major 
global consumer electronics companies in 
this embedded concept.
Across the business, our teams continue to 
evolve our technology, including working 
prototypes of fuel cell systems embedded 
into CE devices, fuel cell cartridge 
development for portable applications 
taking advantage of our acquisition from 
Société BIC and focusing on cost reduction 
and manufacturability. To deliver our 
licensing business model, we continue to 
invest in creating a strong, wide-ranging 
intellectual property portfolio that 
underpins our technology.
Further details in relation to divisional 
operations and our technology can be found 
on pages 12 to 25 of the Strategic report.
Investing for growth
As previously announced, Intelligent Energy 
intends to raise additional funds through  
a two-tier process. Both transactions are 
consistent with the Company’s objective of 
protecting existing shareholders. Firstly, this 
involves a proposed issue of a convertible 
instrument to industrial partners; the terms 
of the convertible instrument include a strike 
price that is at a premium to the current 
share price. Secondly, Intelligent Energy 
realises there is significant value in aspects of 
its DP&G Indian operations and has therefore 
appointed Jefferies, the investment bank,  
to assist the Company in realising some of 
this value to finance its current and future 
growth plans, and notes that it has been in 
discussions with potential investors since  
the early summer.
With respect to the convertible loan note,  
Intelligent Energy is currently in advanced 
discussions with two blue chip industrial 
parties. With their proposed participation  
in the convertible loan note, the two  
blue chip industrial parties look forward  
to supporting the deployment of  
Intelligent Energy’s world-class fuel cells  
and hydrogen energy in general.
Platform for commercialisation
We took the opportunity to strengthen our 
senior management team in March 2015,  
with the appointment of Garrett Forde as 
Chief Operating Officer. Reporting into  
Dr Henri Winand, our Chief Executive Officer, 
Garrett has been tasked with strengthening 
the end-to-end operations of the business, 
creating a greater commercial focus for our 
technology development and for ensuring 
the organisational structure of the Group is 
optimised to support our growth strategies. 
I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank all our employees for their continued 
hard work and support during the past year. 
A great deal has been achieved during this 
period and this is down to the contributions 
of employees across the Group.
Outlook
Overall, it has been an important year in the 
progress of Intelligent Energy. As touched 
upon before, when introducing any new 
disruptive technology, the path to success  
is rarely smooth. However, we have a  
path forward in place and there is great 
momentum across the Group. While fully 
aware of the significant challenges involved, 
the Board remains confident about the 
prospects and opportunities ahead.
Paul Heiden
Non-executive Chairman
27 November 2015
08 Intelligent Energy Holdings plc
