 A Note from 
o ur Ceo
Fellow shareholders, 
It is an honour to present you our first ever Annual Report as 
a publicly traded company.
 
Born of a merger in 2012 between Al Mokhtabar and Al Borg 
Laboratories, Integrated Diagnostics Holding (IDH) is one of the 
largest diagnostics groups in emerging markets. From modest 
beginnings over 35 years ago, we have grown to become the larg-
est private sector and fully integrated diagnostics service pro-
vider in Egypt, with our share of the private chain market total-
ling more than 50% by revenue as per the latest data available*. 
We also operate in Jordan and Sudan and are considering ad-
ditional opportunities to expand beyond our present geography.
 
Today, we offer more than 1,000 international standard di-
agnostic tests, and in the year ended 31 December 2015 we 
performed more than 23.8 million tests for over 5.8 million 
patients. That represents 7% annual growth in total tests and 
4% annual growth in patients served. This is reflected in an 
increase in revenue of 18% to EGP 1,014.8 million. Careful at-
tention to our cost structure saw this top line performance 
carry to our bottom line despite incurring expenses related 
to our listing on the London Stock Exchange and expenses 
related to the ramp-up of operations at the Mega Lab. Net 
profit for 2015 rose 9.4% on the previous year to close at EGP 
155.0 million. Normalising for one-off expenses related to the 
Group’s listing on the LSE and for write-offs relating to plans 
Dr. Hend El Sherbini
* Most recent data available according to Frost & Sullivan Analysis 
conducted in 2013.
IDH ANNu Al re port 2015  8 to establish operations in Qatar, normalised net profit would 
have risen 18.4% to EGP 286.1 million in 2015.
2015 was a milestone year on multiple fronts. In May of 2015, 
we began the next stage of our growth as we transitioned 
from being a privately owned company into a public corpora-
tion. Our IPO on the London Stock Exchange was 11.2 times 
oversubscribed, indicating heavy institutional investment 
appetite for a leading healthcare business with an expand-
ing Middle East and North Africa (MENA) footprint. The IPO, 
which offered 50% of IDH shares, was the first ever listing of 
an Egyptian healthcare business on the LSE.
We have begun our journey as a quoted company with a 
solid legacy: A financially sound business with good oppor-
tunities to grow, governed by a newly formed board. This 
board will take the business forward and develop our gov-
ernance, reporting and other systems that we will continue 
to develop in the years ahead. Our goal in doing so is to be-
come voluntarily compliant with such aspects of the 2014 
U.K. Corporate Governance Code as are appropriate to the 
size of our business and our state of development. 
Operationally, 2015 was key for our growth with the inaugu-
ration of the Mega Lab, our new state of the art central labo-
ratory, which nearly doubles our existing capacity and offers 
cost saving opportunities. Mega Lab enables us to efficiently 
deploy our Hub, Spoke, and Spike business model, allowing us 
to expand with comparatively low capital costs and continue 
to improve our operational efficiency. We are now seeking ac-
creditation from the College of American Pathologists (CAP) 
for Mega Lab; the “ A” labs Mega Lab replaces were previously 
the only such facilities in Egypt with CAP accreditation.
 
Critically, the Mega Lab will support IDH’s growth by allowing 
us to roll out capital efficient “C” Labs more rapidly. Effective 
cost management and the simultaneous expansion of our diag-
nostic services will also drive growth going forward. This strat-
egy is already starting to bear fruit, with our throughput capac-
ity nearly doubling with the inauguration of the Mega Lab. 
 
Whilst we recognize the importance of global standard tech-
nologies and laboratory procedures, continued investment in 
our people is a key driver of sustainable growth. Our employ-
ees engage in ongoing professional education, and the quality 
of our services is ensured by our quality assurance function. 
As we expand as a Group, so do our numbers: Our headcount 
grew 7% to 4,323 in 2015, and 30% of our staff are women. We 
also extend bonuses, healthcare and other insurance, and 
benefits to all members of our staff across the Group.
Gove Rn An Ce
Whilst our Chairman, Lord St John of Bletso, touches on this in 
some detail in his Chairman’s Report in this document, I would 
like to stress that management is very supportive of the Board’s 
view that IDH should aim to voluntarily comply with elements 
  We have begun our journey as a quoted company 
with a solid legacy: A financially sound business 
with good opportunities to grow, governed by a 
newly formed board. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  9
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements of the 2014 U.K. Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”). We 
have begun implementing a framework that is leading us to this 
objective. I further note that our Directors bring IDH a wealth of 
experience in healthcare, investments and MENA markets. Our 
Chairman’s Report on Corporate Governance, as well as reports 
from our Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and our 
Directors’ Report, appear in this document beginning on page 42.
pRop oSeD DIv IDen D An D DIv IDen D pol ICy
We are delighted to propose paying a final dividend of six (6) 
U.S. cents per share (totalling US$ 9 million in aggregate) to 
shareholders in respect of the financial year ending 31 Decem-
ber 2015. The amount of the dividend has been calculated with 
reference to three important factors: historical profit for the 
year, anticipated financial needs agreed in the current budget, 
and the availability of U.S. dollars for payment depending on 
market conditions in IDH’s markets from time to time. Having 
assessed what the IDH Board of Directors considers to be ex-
cess cash, we will look to declare the majority of that surplus.
Our dividend policy is driven by the strong cash generative na-
ture of our business and its asset-light strategy. We believe that 
the fundamentals of our business will enable us to have a con-
sistent and growing dividend strategy in the future. As this is 
our first year as a quoted company, we intend to declare a final 
dividend only and not to declare an interim dividend. We will, 
however, review this policy in the future. 
outlook
Going forward, our goal is to enhance our market position 
across our current suite of diagnostic services and geogra-
phies. In particular, we believe the excess capacity afforded 
by the Mega Lab will allow us to further penetrate the cor-
porate (B2B) market in Egypt. In parallel, we see significant 
opportunity to write a similar success story by penetrating 
the very fragmented radiology market without impacting 
return on investment. This would effectively transform IDH 
into a one stop shop diagnostics provider.
Securing hospital business is another key target for 2016. 
Hospitals carry out some 40 million tests per year and we see 
opportunities in both outsourcing contracts for tests to be 
performed at the Mega Lab as well as opportunities to win 
management contracts and concessions. We also expect our 
businesses in our non-Egyptian markets to continue to grow 
(albeit at lower rates than in Egypt) and we are looking at 
other expansion opportunities in the Middle East and Africa.
Innovation and efficiency lie at the heart of our continued 
business success. By investing in the training of our people, 
continuously updating technology in our labs, expanding into 
underdeveloped markets, and maintaining our diligent cost 
management culture, we will grow our business and continue to 
provide high quality , cost efficient medical laboratory services. 
W e are honoured to have you on this journey with us.
Dr. Hend el-Sherbini
Chief Executive Officer
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  10 Going forward, our goal 
is to enhance our market 
position across our current 
suite of diagnostic services 
and geographies.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  11
STRATEGIC REPORT coRpoRAt e Gove Rn An ce f in An ci Al st At ements
