 cHAiRmAn ’s 
Repo Rt
Your Board of Directors (“the Board”) is responsible for 
providing strong leadership and effective decision making, 
safeguarding in the process the interests of all shareholders 
of Integrated Diagnostics Holdings (“IDH” or “the Group”). 
Under my chairmanship, the Board has been resolute in 
providing oversight and guidance to the Group’s manage-
ment as the Group began its first year as a corporation list-
ed on the London Stock Exchange. 
IDH has a standard listing on the London Stock Exchange 
and is thus not required to comply with the requirements 
of the 2014 U.K. Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) 
as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. However, we 
are firm in our belief in the importance of good govern-
ance practices and we aim to voluntarily comply with as-
pects of the code while continuously working to close the 
gap with premium listed entities. We strongly believe that 
adopting best industry practices in governance will assist 
us in building a profitable and sustainable business as well 
as safeguarding shareholder interests.
We are in compliance with Financial Conduct Authority 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule (DTR) subchapters 7.1 
and 7.2, which set out certain mandatory disclosures: 7.1 
Chairman l ord St j ohn of Bletso
discusses IDH’s corporate governance 
framework and the work of the Board  
and its committees during 2015
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  42 concerns audit committees and bodies carrying out equiv-
alent functions; 7.2 concerns corporate governance stand-
ards that are included in the Directors Report or, in this 
case, as part of the Strategic Review (DTR 7.2.1). 
To that end, we have established in our first year as a listed 
company an Audit Committee as well as remuneration and 
nomination committees; the Board may establish addition-
al committees as appropriate going forward. This Annual 
Report includes reports from both the Audit and Remu-
neration Committees.  The nomination committee did not 
meet during the year.
Your board aims to work in accordance with best prac-
tices in corporate governance, calling on both the ex-
pertise of individual Directors as well as that of outside 
parties, including legal counsel and global professional 
services firms.  
We have worked diligently throughout the first year of our 
appointment as directors to meet the challenges before us. 
We look forward to reporting to you not just through this, 
our first Annual Report, but also at our 9 May 2016 Annual 
General Meeting of shareholders.
t He Ipo pRo CeSS
At a meeting held 12 January 2015, the board constituted an 
IPO Committee, with members including Dr. Hend El Sherbini 
(alternate: Sherif El Ghamrawi), Richard Phillips (alternate: 
Hossam Abou Moussa), and Ahmed Badreldin (alternate: Amr 
Helal). The committee was granted full power and authority 
to complete the initial public offering of IDH shares and to see 
to their admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Deutsche Bank and EFG Hermes Investment Banking were 
joint global coordinators and joint bookrunners, while and Cit-
igroup Global Markets were joint bookrunners on the transac-
tion, which saw IDH admitted to trading on 11 May 2015 after 
an extensive roadshow. The Group’ s entire issued share capital 
of 150,000,000 ordinary shares was admitted to the standard 
listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority 
and to trading on London Stock Exchange’s main market for 
listed securities under the ticker symbol IDHC.
Fun Ct Ion In G o F t He Bo ARD
We met four times as a board during the course of 2015 (in 
January, April, August and November), and I was delighted to 
have had the opportunity to visit IDH’s main base of opera-
tions in Cairo, Egypt, in summer 2015. Whilst in Egypt, I held 
  Under my chairmanship, the Board has been 
resolute in providing oversight and guidance to 
the Group’s management as the Group began 
its first year as a corporation listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  43
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements have in place the right strategy and the right management 
team to deliver shareholder returns going forward. 
Throughout, I have had the pleasure of working with Dr. 
Hend El Sherbini, our chief executive and sole executive 
director. As chairman of a company founded and led on 
a day to day basis by a powerful female chief executive, 
we take seriously the recommendations of Lord Davies’ 
review of Women on Boards and look forward to making 
further progress in this respect with the passage of time. 
While our Board has some way yet to go to meet Lord 
Davies’ recommendation that women account for 25% of 
the members of our board, I do note that we are a group at 
which fully 30% of the workforce is female.
Together, the directors offer IDH a world standard mix of 
expertise in areas including strategy, finance and medical 
diagnostics — as well as diverse experience in Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa. In summary, we have relevant com-
mercial and technical experience to help direct the Group 
as it delivers on its strategy in a very technical field and 
across rapidly changing geographies. I am pleased to report 
that we are optionally compliant with the Code in having 
four Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Your Board and their biographies are set out on pages 40-
41 and 44 of this Annual Report and is summarized in the 
table below. 
l eADeRSHIp 
In our first year as a listed entity, we have agreed a clear 
division of responsibilities between the role of the Chair-
man and that of the Group Chief Executive. This segre-
gation of roles was agreed at the Board meeting held 12 
January 2015.  
meetings at corporate offices and toured the recently opened 
Mega Lab (IDH’s centralized and fully automated testing fa-
cility) and collector facilities. During the visit, I engaged di-
rectly with senior management to discuss both the Group’s 
strategic plans and how management (including our chief 
executive) is evolving the policies and procedures necessary 
to continue the full institutionalisation of the business. 
As part of this institutionalisation process, IDH retained 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Dubai to perform a comprehen-
sive gap analysis of IDH’s finance function post-listing. The 
aim of this exercise was to:
•	 Improve finance policies, processes, controls and IT 
utilisation;
•	 Develop a robust framework and mechanism to ensure 
accountability, control and governance, and reduce 
people dependency;
•	 Evolve the finance function such that it focuses its ef-
fort beyond transaction processing and thus provide 
meaningful management insights; 
•	 Ensure the availability, quality, relevance and timeli-
ness of information for robust management decision 
making and meeting other stakeholder needs (such as 
investor relations, tax authorities, and banks).
The Group’s senior management received the PwC report 
during the fourth quarter of 2015 and is now assessing its 
findings and developing a plan for implementation. The 
Group and the Board are also reviewing the outcome of the 
internal audit conducted in 2015 by Ernst & Young Egypt, ad-
ditional detail on which is included in this Annual Report’s 
Audit Committee Report, beginning page 50. 
The Board has invested significant time discussing and 
evaluating the Group’s strategy and prospects for future 
growth, the outcome of which is presented in our state-
ment of strategy on page 24. We are confident that we 
Name Age Position
Lord St John of Bletso 58
Independent Non-Executive Chairperson
(12 January 2015)
Prof. Dr. Hend El Sherbini 47
Group Chief Executive Officer
(23 December 2014)
Ahmed Badreldin 44
Non-Executive Director
(5 December 2014)
Hussein Choucri 65
Independent Non-Executive Director
(12 January 2015)
James Patrick Nolan 55
Independent Non-Executive Director
(8 April 2015)
Dan Olsson 50
Independent Non-Executive Director
(12 January 2015)
Richard Henry Phillips 51
Non-Executive Director
(23 December 2014)
BoARD oF DIReCt oRS oF Inte GRAt eD DIAGno St IC Hol DIn GS pl C
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  44 As Chairman, I ensure the Board is effective in the execu-
tion of all aspects of its role. The Group Chief Executive Of-
ficer, meanwhile, is responsible for managing the day to day 
running of the business. In this, she is supported by a senior 
management team. The Group Chief Executive and I have 
a good working relationship and discuss matters of Group 
strategy and performance on an as-needed basis. 
We also work together to ensure that Board meetings cover 
relevant matters and, in partnership with the Group secre-
tary, ensure that all Directors:  
•	 Are kept advised of key developments;
•	 Receive accurate, timely and clear information upon 
which to call in the execution of their duties; 
•	 Actively participate in the decision making process. 
Agendas for meetings of the Board are reviewed and agreed 
in advance to ensure each Board meeting is efficiently run, 
allowing all Directors to openly and constructively challenge 
the proposals made by the Group’s senior management. I am 
pleased to report that throughout the year, each Director has 
properly exercised those powers with which they have been 
vested by the Group’ s Articles of Association and relevant laws. 
The Board operates under a Schedule of Matters Reserved to 
it, items of which were approved at a meeting of the board 
held 12 January 2015, updated at a meeting held 8 April 2015, 
and approved in an ordinary resolution dated 21 April 2015. 
Matters reserved to the board means any decision that may 
affect the overall direction, supervision and management of 
the Group or the Group’s group including, but not limited to:
a. approving annually a strategic plan and objectives for 
the following year for the Group;
b. approving any decision to cease to operate all or any 
material part of the Group’s business or to enter into 
any new business or geographic areas;
c. monitoring the delivery of the Group’s strategy, objec-
tives, business plan and budget;
d. engaging or otherwise contracting with agents, repre-
sentatives, consultants, distributors or other interme-
diaries to provide material services for or on behalf of 
the Group’s group;
e. adopting or amending the Group’s business plan or an-
nual budget;
f. incurring any capital expenditure in respect of any item 
or project of more than EGP 5,000,000 that is not within 
the annual budget already approved by the Board;
g. entering into any contract, liability or commitment 
which: (i) could involve a liability for expenditure in 
excess of EGP 25,000,000 that is not within the annual 
budget already approved by the Board; or (ii) is out-
side the ordinary course of business of the Group, un-
less a contract involves costs within the annual budg-
et and business plan already approved by the Board 
and satisfies such authorisation criteria as the Group 
may approve from time to time as part of the proce-
dures for the Group;
h. making any material acquisition or disposal (including 
any grant of any material licence) of or relating to any 
intellectual property rights;
i. decisions relating to the conduct (including the settle-
ment) of any legal proceedings to which any member of 
the Group’s group is a party where there is a potential 
liability or claim of more than EGP 100,000;
j. approving the Group’s statutory accounts and half-yearly 
financial statements and / or any change in the account-
ing principles or tax policies of any member of the Group’ s 
group and / or any change in the end of the financial year 
of any member of the Group’s group except as contem-
plated by the business plan or annual budget, as required 
by law or to comply with a new accounting standard;
k. adopting (or varying) the Group group’s material poli-
cies in respect of employees’ remuneration, employ-
ment terms and/or pension schemes;
l. any member of the Group’s group declaring or paying 
any dividend or distribution; 
m. delegating any of the Group’s powers to a committee of 
the Board, including setting the quorum for a meeting 
of any such committee or approving its, or any changes 
to its, terms of reference;
n. approving the issue of all circulars, prospectuses, list-
ing particulars and general meeting notices to share-
holders of the Group;
o. ensuring the Group has effective systems of internal 
control and risk management in place by (i) approving 
the Group’s risk appetite statements; and (ii) approving 
policies and procedures for the detection of fraud, the 
prevention of bribery and other areas considered by the 
Board to be material;
p. undertaking an annual review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and internal control and 
reporting on that review in the Group’s annual report. 
The review should cover all controls, including finan-
cial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management; 
q. carrying out a robust assessment of the principal risks fac-
ing the Group, including those that threaten its business, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity and to report on 
such assessment in the Group’s annual report; and
r. reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance ar-
rangements and approving any changes thereto. 
Apart from these Reserved matters, the Board delegates spe-
cific items to its principal committees, namely the commit-
tees on Audit, Remuneration and Nominations. Each Com-
mittee is authorised to seek any information it requires from 
senior management. Beginning in 2016, the committees will 
endeavour to review on an annual basis their own perfor-
mance, constitution and terms of reference. 
I provide brief recaps below on each of these committees. 
Reports from the Chairmen of the Audit and Remunera-
tion committees appear starting pages 50 and 56 of this 
Annual Report, respectively.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  45
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements meet In G k ey DeCISIon S
12 jA n uARy 2015
(Held in St. Helier, Jersey)
•	 Updates related to the IPO process
•	 Directors’ training
•	 Established an IPO committee
•	 Approvals of matters and agreements related to the IPO
•	 Established a quorum for the board
•	 Established the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees
•	 Approved corporate governance documents, including the Schedule of Mat-
ters Reserved to the Board and the division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the CEO, among other matters
8 ApRIl 2 015
(Held on Fleet St., London)
•	 Updates related to the IPO process
•	 Approval of each Director’s appointment letter
•	 Appointment of James Patrick Nolan as Non-Executive Director
•	 Approval of service agreements for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer
•	 Approval of the Group’ s 2012, 2013 and 2014 historical IFRS financial statements
•	 Affirmation of the Audit Committee’s power to approve an engagement letter 
for KPMG
•	 Review and approval of draft IPO prospectus and of agreements related to 
the IPO
•	 Approval and appointment of members to the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination committees
•	 Approval of certain corporate governance documents
21 Au Gu St 2015
(Held in St. Helier, Jersey)
•	 Cost of supplies (almost all imported) was equivalent to c. 17% of revenues in 
2015 (2014: 19%). Management believes that it can mitigate the effects of de-
valuation through a combination of improved pricing and cost efficiencies.
•	 Only 12% of IDH’s cost of supplies (c. 2% of revenues) are payable in U.S. dollars, 
minimising the Group’s exposure to FX scarcity and, in part, devaluation. IDH 
could, however, face price changes or negotiations with suppliers.
•	 Despite being a cash-generative business, IDH’s ability to source foreign ex-
change is limited by caps on cash deposits of foreign currency at banks in 
Egypt. This can put limitation on the Group’s level of U.S. dollar dividends. The 
Board is accordingly studying alternatives through which to make better use of 
excess local currency cash.
20 n ovem BeR 2015 
(St. Helier, Jersey)
•	 Approval to open a bank account with the National Bank of Egypt (UK) Ltd. 
(As at today’s date, the account has yet to be opened.)
•	 Discussion of the foreign currency situation in Egypt
•	 Update on the actions list from the meeting of 21 August 2015
•	 Trading update and management report
•	 Update on replacement in 2016 of Market Abuse Directive by Market 
Abuse Regulation
BoARD ACt Iv It IeS Du RIn G 2015
Your Board of Directors held four meetings in 2015. The wide range of activities with which the Board dealt at 
those meetings is summarized here in brief. 
The following standing items are considered at each meeting:
•	 Determines that notice was given and that a quorum for the meeting has been obtained;
•	 Hears declarations of interest and considers an conflicts of interest that may arise;
•	 Establishes the purpose of the meeting
•	 Reviews and approves minutes of the previous meeting of the Board.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  46 Details of our Directors’ attendance at Board and Com-
mittee meetings are shown on the table on page 49. In the 
event that any Director is unable to attend a meeting of 
the Board or of a Committee of which they are a member, 
he or she receives the necessary papers, including agen-
das, meeting outcomes and any documents presented for 
review or information. In the event that a Director is un-
able to attend a meeting of the Board, I endeavour to dis-
cuss with them in advance of the meeting to obtain their 
views and decisions on the proposals to be considered.  
As often as possible, we hold a dinner to coincide with each 
scheduled meeting of the Board so as to permit Directors to 
discuss current business matters as well as to source updates 
on current operations, markets and wider industry matters 
from both the senior management team and from external 
advisors. This more casual format furthermore allows us as 
Directors to get to know one another and select members 
of senior management in a less formal setting. We held two 
such dinners in 2015 (in January and August) and aim to con-
tinue this practice in 2016. 
The Board also hopes to hold one meeting in Egypt in 2016 to 
afford all Directors the opportunity to tour the Group’s Egypt 
offices and diagnostic facilities as well as to meet with mem-
bers of the Group’ s senior management on an as-needed basis. 
Within the wider corporate governance framework, I believe 
it pertinent to note that while there is no standing commit-
tee of senior management, the Group holds weekly manage-
ment meetings attended by senior management, including 
executives responsible for sales, manual analysis units, auto-
mated analysis units, human resources, finance, marketing, 
quality and investor relations. The Group’s general counsel 
also attends these meetings, at which senior management 
discusses upcoming priorities, recent performance, and the 
operational steps necessary to ensure the management team 
delivers on its business goals and the Group’s strategic plan. 
eFFeCt Iv ene SS
The Board of IDH does not currently have formal mechanisms 
in place to evaluate its effectiveness as regards the on-board-
ing of new directors, strategic planning or its formulation of 
goals. That said, having spent considerable time in both formal 
meetings and in learning about the skills of our Directors one 
on one — and drawing on my past experience as a director — I 
am confident that the Board has the skills, talent and indus-
try knowledge it needs to effectively deliver the Group’ s agreed 
strategy. It is, moreover, our hope that we will over time devel-
op formal evaluation mechanisms that will allow us to report 
on our effectiveness in a more rigorous manner. 
In the interim, it is my considered judgement that the 
Board receives from senior management sufficiently de-
tailed budgets, forecasts, strategy proposals, reviews of the 
Group’s financial position and operating performance, and 
annual and half yearly reports to ensure that it may be effec-
tive. This enables us to effectively ask questions of senior 
management and to hold discussions on the Group’s strat-
egy and performance. 
In 2015, senior management delivered quarterly reports to 
the board; beginning in 2016, the Board will receive monthly 
reports ahead of regularly scheduled board meetings. 
All meetings of the Board and its Committees are minuted 
by the Group Secretary or a designated alternate. Any con-
cerns raised by Directors are clearly recorded in the minutes 
of each meeting. I review Board minutes in my capacity as 
Chairman before these minutes are circulated to all Directors 
in attendance and then tabled for approval at the next meet-
ing, at which time any necessary amendments are made. 
Compo SIt Ion o F t He Bo ARD
Under its Articles of Association, the Group must have a mini-
mum of two Directors. While there is no maximum number 
of Directors, the Board presently includes seven members and 
has no intention at present of appointing additional members. 
Directors have no share qualification, meaning they do not 
need to be shareholders of the Group in order to serve. 
The Group has obtained customary directors’ and officers’ 
indemnity insurance covering the Chairperson and the Non-
Executive Directors.
ov eRv IeW o F t He n om In At Ion S Comm Ittee
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in reviewing 
the structure, size and composition of the Board. It is also 
responsible for reviewing succession plans for the Directors, 
including the Chairman and Chief Executive and other sen-
ior management. The nomination committee will normally 
meet not less than twice a year.
I note in this instance that all members of the Nominations 
Committee are Non-Executive Directors. As a result, we are 
fully compliant with the Governance Code’s recommenda-
tion that a majority of the nomination committee should 
comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors. Mr. Hussein 
Choucri is deemed to be our Non-Executive Director with 
relevant financial experience in compliance with the DTR.
Chairman Members
Lord St John of Bletso Hussein Choucri
Dan Olsson
The Nominations Committee did not meet in 2015. 
ov eRv IeW o F t He Remune RAt Ion Comm Ittee
The remuneration committee recommends the Group’s 
policy on executive remuneration, determines the levels 
of remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman 
and other senior management, and prepares an annual re-
muneration report for approval by the Shareholders at the 
annual general meeting. The remuneration committee will 
normally meet not less than three times a year.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  47
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements The Governance Code recommends that the remuneration 
committee should comprise, in the case of smaller compa-
nies, at least two Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
As all of the members of the Committee are Independent 
Non-Executive Directors, we are in full compliance with the 
recommendations of the Governance Code in this respect.
Chairman Members
Hussein Choucri Dan Olsson
James Patrick Nolan
The Remuneration Committee met in November 2015. The 
complete report of the Remuneration Committee for 2015 
appears starting page 56.
ov eRv IeW o F t He Au DIt Comm Ittee
The audit committee’s role is to assist the Board with the dis-
charge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, 
including reviewing the Group’s annual and half year finan-
cial statements and accounting policies, internal and exter-
nal audits and controls, reviewing and monitoring the inde-
pendence and scope of the annual audit and the extent of the 
non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising 
on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal audit, internal controls, whistle-
blowing and fraud systems in place within the Group. The 
audit committee will meet not less than three times a year.
     
The Governance Code requires that at least one member of the 
audit committee be independent and that at least one mem-
ber has competence in accounting and/or auditing. In addi-
tion, the Governance Code recommends that the audit com-
mittee should comprise, in the case of smaller companies, at 
least two Independent Non-Executive Directors and that at 
least one member has recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Board considers that the Group complies with the require-
ments and recommendations of the Code in those respects. 
Chairman Members
James Patrick Nolan Dan Olsson
Hussein Choucri
The full report of the Audit Committee for 2015 appears 
starting on page 50 of this Annual Report.
Inte Rn Al Cont Ro l An D RISk mAn AGement
Given the business and geographies in which the Group oper-
ates, I believe as Chairman that risk mitigation will be key not 
just to the creation and preservation of shareholder value, but 
in the Group’s growth going forward. The risk matrix is of suf-
ficiently vital importance that it must be owned equally by the 
management team and members of the Board. 
Our view as a Board is that the Group must be proactive on 
risk in order to meet shareholder expectations, and I have 
advised that I expect IDH to be ahead of the curve in this 
area. Senior management is working with the internal audit 
team to take the risk register forward. You may expect risk 
and its mitigation will be a theme to which your board re-
turns repeatedly in 2016, as we did in 2015. 
The Board has delegated oversight of the Group’s system of 
internal controls to the Audit Committee so as to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and the interests of shareholders. The 
Audit Committee thus reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls on an ongoing basis to ensure the keeping 
of proper accounting records, safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and detecting fraud and other irregularities. 
The Board has accordingly established that the Group has in 
place internal controls to manage risk including:
•	 The outsourcing of the internal audit function to pro-
fessionals from Ernst & Young (EY);
•	 The identification and management of risk at the level of 
operating departments by the heads of those departments;
•	 Regular Board level discussion of the major business 
risks of the Group, together with measures being taken 
to contain and mitigate those risks.
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties and mitigation 
for them are set out on pages 26-28 of this Annual Report.
Y our Board has furthermore put in place a control framework 
at the Group level that applies to all subsidiaries, including:
•	 Board approval of the overall Group budget and stra-
tegic plans;
•	 A clear organisational structure delineating lines of re-
sponsibility, authorities and reporting requirements;
•	 Defined expenditure authorization levels;
•	 A regular process for operational reviews at the senior 
management level on a weekly, monthly and quarterly 
basis covering all aspects of the business;
•	 A strategic planning process that defines the key steps 
senior management must take to deliver on the Group’s 
long term strategy;
•	 A comprehensive system of financial reporting includ-
ing weekly flash reports to management, monthly re-
porting to management and an annual budget process 
involving both senior management and the Board. The 
Board received reports on a quarterly basis in 2015. 
Beginning in 2016, the Board will continue to receive 
quarterly updates, but will furthermore receive month-
ly reports from senior management;
•	 As part of the reporting process in 2015, management 
reviews monthly actual results against prior year, against 
budget and against forecast; beginning 2016, these re-
ports will also be circulated to the Board. Any significant 
changes and adverse variances are reviewed by the Group 
Chief Executive and by senior management and remedial 
action is taken where appropriate.
An internal audit plan for 2016 will be prepared and agreed 
with the Audit Committee. 
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  48 Inve St o R Rel At Ion S
Engagement with shareholders has been a key function at both 
the senior management and the Board level throughout our 
first year as a listed company. Our investor relations function 
held more than 38 meetings with 75 current shareholders and 
potential investors following the Group’s admission to trading. 
Management met investors at investor conferences organized by 
EFG Hermes and Deutsche Bank; welcomed potential and cur-
rent investors to meetings in Cairo; and handled queries, whether 
delivered verbally or in writing, from nearly four dozen investors.
We published both half- and full-year results and further-
more released an interim update on performance at the 
nine-month mark. We intend to continue publishing in-
terim performance updates at the first- and third-quarter 
marks in 2016 while simultaneously meeting the minimum 
disclosure required by statute. 
The Board communicates with shareholders through pub-
lic announcements disseminated via the London Stock Ex-
change, analyst briefings, roadshows and press interviews. 
Copies of public announcements and financial results are 
published on the Group’s website, along with a number of 
other investor relations tools. The delivery of a richer inves-
tor relations website with additional shareholder tools is a 
priority for senior management in 2016. 
The Board receives regular updates from the senior man-
agement team on the views of major shareholders and on 
milestones in the investor relations program. We will con-
tinue throughout 2016 to grow our investor relations pro-
gram to ensure that our shareholders and stakeholders 
remain informed of the Group’s strategy and ongoing finan-
cial and business performance. 
Annu Al Repo Rt In G An D Annu Al Gene RAl 
meet In G o F SHAReHol DeRS
This is our first Annual Report as a quoted company. We 
will typically publish future Annual Reports in March in 
respect of the prior year ended 31 December. We voluntar-
ily comply with the Code’s requirement to send a Notice of 
Meeting of an AGM and related papers at least 20 working 
days prior to the meeting. 
The Group’s first Annual General Meeting as a listed com-
pany will be held in London on 9 May 2016. Sharehold-
ers are encouraged to attend the AGM and to ask ques-
tions about the business, its financial performance and its 
strategy. All Board members are scheduled to attend the 
upcoming AGM. Details of the AGM are included in the 
Notice of Meeting that accompanies this Annual Report 
and which is available on our website.
During the AGM, all of the Group’s Directors will voluntar-
ily submit their retirement and seek reappointment. 
The outcome of the voting at the AGM will be announced 
by way of a London Stock Exchange announcement and 
full details will be published on the Group’s website short-
ly after the AGM. 
l ImIt At Ion S o F t HIS Repo Rt
As I noted earlier, the Group is not bound to adhere to the 
requirements of the 2014 U.K. Code of Corporate Govern-
ance. Nevertheless, we have endeavoured where possible 
to ensure that this Annual Report is, as a whole, fair, bal-
anced and understandable.
In formulating this Annual Report, we have called on the 
Group Chief Executive and her senior management staff 
to provide us with clear documentary evidence of the 
Group’s performance and policies for 2015. The Audit 
Committee has confirmed to us that the financial state-
ments as contained in the 2015 Annual Report are true 
and fair and that the work of the external auditor has been 
accurate and effective.
l ord St j ohn of Bletso
Chairman
24 March 2016
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
Number of meetings 4 3 1 0
Directors
Lord St John of Bletso 4 - - -
Dr. Hend El Sherbini 4 - - -
Rick Phillips 4 - - -
Ahmed Badreldin** 3 - - -
Dan Olsson 4 3 1 -
Hussein Choucri** 3 2 1 -
James Nolan* 3 3 1 -
tAB l e o F DIReCt oR At ten DAn Ce At 2 015 meet In GS
* Mr . Nolan was appointed following the 12 January 2015 meeting of the Board and so has attended 100% of the meetings held post his appointment.
**  Mr. Choucri sent his regrets for the Board meeting of 12 January 2015 as well as for the Audit Committee meeting of 14 July 2015. Mr. 
Badreldin sent his regrets for the Board meeting of 20 November 2015.
IDH An nu Al Repo Rt 2 015  49
st RAt eGic Repo Rt CORPORATE GOv ERNANCE f in An ci Al st At ements
