 04 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW IN SUMMARY
FINAL DIVIDEND AND FULL -YEAR DIVIDEND INCREASES
NEW BOARD DIRECTORS BRING NEW PERSPECTIVES
OUR DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS IS RESILIENT
CONTINUED FOCUS ON SAFETY SERVICES
PLANNING FOR THE NEXT PHASE OF GROWTH
CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN NEW SATELLITES AND NETWORKS
CUSTOMER MARKET SEGMENT FOCUS DRIVES INNOVATION
 
2015 OVERVIEW
This, our tenth year as a listed company, has been 
a year of transition, preparation and investment in 
what we firmly believe will be the next phase of 
growth in the global mobile satellite sector. While 
we were disappointed in the delays in the final 
deployment of our new Global Xpress constellation 
and in the continued spending constraints that our 
government, oil and gas and maritime customers 
have experienced in 2015, we were, at the same 
time, quite pleased with the resilience of our 
diversified business and the progress that we’ve 
made in moving our customers to higher bandwidth 
data services overall. In our Aviation business, 
segments of our Government business and with our 
first customers using our new Global Xpress service 
we did well. 
Underpinning all of this is a progression to higher 
bandwidth services which we believe is inevitable. 
It is clear that customers in areas not fully served by 
terrestrial wireless networks still demand the same 
need for broadband connectivity. Our focus remains 
on serving customers in those remote environments 
with uniform global mobile or portable connectivity 
that is highly reliable. The mission-critical applications 
our services are used for have a broad range of 
connectivity requirements, but more and more it is for 
higher bandwidth, lower and more predictable prices, 
smaller and lower cost terminals and high levels 
of reliability.
Reflecting on our tenth year as a listed company, 
we are proud to note for our investors that since 
our IPO in 2005 to the end of December 2015, our 
share price has increased 364%, our dividend has 
had a healthy increase each and every year and 
our total shareholder return (TSR) during this 
period was 584%. This compares with a TSR for the 
FTSE 250 of 217% and 81% for the FTSE 100; and is 
also strongly favourable to our industry indices.
While we are pleased with the returns we’ve been 
able to deliver to our shareholders, we have done 
this alongside both maintaining the quality of 
services that we deliver and investing in the future. 
In the next section Rupert Pearce, our CEO, will 
highlight our performance more broadly in 2015, 
and our plans for 2016 and beyond. He and the 
senior management team continue to innovate 
around their identified business unit needs. The 
most fundamental illustrations of that are our new 
satellite constellations, both Global Xpress and 
the newly announced Inmarsat-6 programme. 
However, a breakthrough in offering enhanced 
European aviation connectivity, at significantly 
increased data speeds, was also announced in the 
form of our new European Aviation Network 
partnership with the leading European telecoms 
firm, Deutsche Telekom. This is an example of an 
extension of our satellite services through a hybrid 
system to more effectively serve our aviation 
customers. We expect to invest more in this rapidly 
growing aviation segment in the years ahead.
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
A YEAR OF STRATEGIC PROGRESS
ANDREW SUKAWATY CHAIRMAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 05
In October we were honoured to 
host a visit by the Chinese 
President, Xi Jinping, to our 
Inmarsat headquarters in 
London. 
PERFORMANCE
In 2015, our Aviation business unit performed 
very strongly and within our government market 
sector, the US Government business also showed 
improvement in the underlying trends. Our 
Maritime business was flat overall and underlying 
revenues in our Enterprise business increased. 
These four market sectors contributed to overall 
Mobile Satellite Services and other revenues of 
$1,185.5m, with the balance of our revenues made 
up of payments received from a collaboration 
agreement with a US operator, LightSquared, 
now called Ligado Networks. With prudent cost 
management and despite a year of significant 
investment in the business in terms of both 
infrastructure and employee training, our level 
of EBITDA was favourable against last year.
This performance has allowed us to continue 
increasing our dividend payments with a 5% 
increase on the final dividend on last year to 
31.78 cents which gave a total dividend for 2015 
of 51.39 cents. This is a 5% increase for the full year 
dividend compared to 2014. We have increased 
our dividends every year since our IPO in 2005.
Rupert and the senior management team have 
managed the Company well through a year of 
transition and significant investment. The Company 
is well positioned in markets on land, at sea and in 
the air – business sectors the market analysts 
expect to grow over the long term. It is not without 
operational and competitive challenges, but we 
think our market-focused approach, along with the 
assets we continue to put in place, will allow us to 
continue to grow profitably in the years ahead.
Thank you to our customers for continuing to rely 
on us, we do not take this for granted. Thank you to 
our entire global workforce for continuing to work 
tirelessly to deliver reliable services. And of course, 
thank you also to our shareholders for your 
continued support for Inmarsat.
ANDREW SUKAWATY
Chairman
3 March 2016
Of course safety services in both maritime and 
aviation remain core to what we do. In both of these 
services we are investing in the next generation and 
enhancements to ensure that seafarers and 
aircraft, flying over oceans and remote areas 
globally, have the benefit of the latest technologies 
to keep them safe.
BOARD ACTIVITIES
During the course of 2015, we also evolved 
our Board membership by bringing on new 
independent members and by the retirement 
of one of our long-time valued members of the 
Board. This process will result in the continued 
independence of our Board and allow for a 
continuity of work along the way. This year we 
were pleased to welcome two new members to 
our Board: Robert Ruijter, who is our new Audit 
Committee Chairman and Dr Hamadoun Touré, 
former Secretary General of the ITU (see their 
biographies on pages 52-54). In addition, we have 
formed a new Committee of the Board, the 
Telecoms Regulatory Committee, which will allow us 
to focus on vital telecoms regulation globally with 
our Directors who have a wealth of experience in 
this highly specialised and relevant geopolitical 
arena for us.
John Rennocks, our Deputy Chairman, decided 
to retire from the Board in November 2015. We 
thank John for his invaluable contributions over 
the years to the success of Inmarsat as a business. 
Dr Abe Peled has stepped into the role of Senior 
Independent Director. In addition, at the start of 
2015 I stepped into the role of Non-Executive 
Chairman. The Corporate governance report on 
pages 58 to 71 summarises the changes that we 
have made to the Board over the course of the 
year and notes our intentions for succession 
planning before the 2017 AGM. A summary of the 
external Board evaluation we recently completed 
is also included in this Report.
In October we were honoured to host a visit by the 
Chinese President, Xi Jinping, to our Inmarsat 
headquarters in London. This was in conjunction 
with his State visit to the UK. After 35 years of 
working closely with our Chinese partners in the 
delivery of emergency services, maritime safety 
services and more commercial services to Chinese 
users, we were pleased to be recognised in this way.
BOARD OVERVIEW
Our Board confirms the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable
We have a majority of independent 
Directors with diverse and 
complementary experience 
and skills
We completed an external Board 
Evaluation review in 2015 with 
positive findings
We created a new Board  
Committee – the Telecoms 
Regulatory Committee
Non-Executive Director 
succession planning remains 
a focus
READ MORE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT P58
