 06 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
2015 has been a time of concerted effort and 
achievement in a transitional year en-route to 
the establishment of our new global Inmarsat-5 
network, which we expect to help deliver new 
growth prospects and new sector opportunities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
INVESTING FOR FUTURE GROWTH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 07
Q. WHAT WOULD YOU DESCRIBE AS THE 
MOST IMPORTANT ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
AT INMARSAT IN 2015?
A. Undoubtedly the highlight of 2015 was the 
successful launch of our Inmarsat-5 satellite 
constellation to provide global coverage, which we 
brought into commercial service at the end of the 
year. We encountered delays to our launch plans in 
2015, caused by successive Proton launch failures 
prior to our planned launch dates, but we 
eventually launched our second and third 
Inmarsat-5 satellites in February and August 2015, 
respectively. These launches set the stage for us 
to deliver meaningful Global Xpress (GX) service 
revenues in 2016, as we move from a transition 
period into the beginning of what we hope will 
be a substantial transformation in our growth 
through the diversification of our business and the 
introduction of exciting new products and services.
We also delivered good progress in our plans to 
deploy our European Aviation Network (EAN), 
a hybrid, integrated satellite/air-to-ground (ATG) 
network operating in the S-band. This will bring 
high-speed broadband to the European 
commercial and business aviation markets.
In September 2015, we announced a partnership 
with Deutsche Telekom to deliver a pan-European 
ATG network, which will be fully integrated with the 
S-band satellite being built for us by Thales Alenia 
Space. During the year we completed development 
contracts with other core suppliers for the EAN’s 
satellite antenna, ATG antenna and satellite ground 
network. The EAN will operate on an integrated 
basis with our global GX aviation services, to 
provide our customers with the world’s broadest, 
most capable aviation connectivity network. We 
are very encouraged that customer interest in 
these future aviation services remains strong and 
we were delighted that in October 2015 the 
Deutsche Lufthansa Group committed their 
European short-haul fleet (Europe’s largest) to 
our GX services and announced that it intended 
to be the first airline to trial the EAN service when 
it becomes available, expected in 2017. 
In November last year, Singapore Airlines also 
confirmed GX as its preferred service on its global 
A380, A350 and B777 fleets. In 2016, we will move 
into installation of GX for these new customers.
STRATEGIC SUCCESSES
Successful launch of our Inmarsat-5 satellites to provide global coverage
Creating the pathway to deliver the world’s first superfast mobile broadband network 
from one operator
Good progress to deploy our integrated satellite/air-to-ground European 
Aviation Network
Leading aviation companies commit to deploy our next-generation services
Contracted to two hybrid L -band and Ka-band Inmarsat-6 satellites providing 
services beyond 2030
READ MORE
OUR STRATEGY P20
RUPERT PEARCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 08 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
There is strong growth potential 
for our machine-to-machine 
services. We will continue to 
innovate in this area in the future.
Our Government activities continue to decline 
year-on-year as a result of materially lower troop 
deployment among our core traditional customers 
and a reduction in government commercial 
satellite expenditure generally. Despite this 
pronounced market slowdown, our Government 
business has outperformed almost all of its 
competitors this year and the fact that our 
business only declined 10% year-over-year 
actually represents a solid performance in 
attritional conditions. Our relative success has 
been founded on a three-pronged strategy to 
diversify our government customer base into 
new verticals, to internationalise by entering 
some eight new geographies in the year and to 
bring new government-centric product and service 
innovation to market. We have also been helped by 
strong early endorsement of our new commercial 
and military GX services by thought-leading 
government customers, which augurs well for 
the future.
Underlying Enterprise revenues grew if you remove 
the effect of the retail energy assets we sold in 
2014. We continue to build momentum for new 
evolutions of our BGAN portable data service and 
our voice service performed well, despite a 
manufacturing issue for our IsatPhone 2 voice 
service which led to a temporary suspension of 
sales in Q3. There is strong growth potential for 
our machine-to-machine (M2M) services, and we 
had an installed base across all M2M product lines 
of 326,000 terminals at the year end. We will 
continue to innovate in this area in the future. 
We remain confident that our strategic partnership 
with RigNet in the energy and resources sector will 
flourish on the back of the launch of GX services 
into this sector in 2016. 
Aviation made excellent progress in 2015 alongside 
the excitement of early GX customer interest for 
passenger connectivity and the strong progress in 
Q. HOW DID THE BUSINESS PERFORM 
AGAINST ITS KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS FOR THE YEAR? 
A. Tony Bates, our CFO, covers the detail of the 
financials and there are financial summaries 
provided for each of the business segments as well. 
I will therefore focus on some key overall comments.
Total Group revenues were flat against last year 
excluding disposals. We were pleased to see growth 
in revenues from our Aviation and Enterprise 
businesses (after adjusting for disposals made 
in 2014). Maritime revenues were little changed, 
with strong growth in our two key products – 
FleetBroadband (FB) and XpressLink, continuing 
to be offset by the expected ongoing decline in the 
non-core legacy maritime product suite.
Looking at each of the business sectors, Maritime 
has delivered on many of its core ambitions with 
continued strong growth in FB subscribers, 
revenues and average revenue per user (ARPU). 
Subscriber growth slowed over the year, due to the 
increased scrappage of older ships and lay-ups of 
younger ships which impacted on growth in new 
installations and accelerated the decline in our 
legacy services on older vessels. We are confident 
of launching new FB services in the near future that 
will begin the process of broadening the maritime 
markets we serve. Similarly, we saw continued 
excellent progress in our XpressLink service (our 
bridging product to GX) serving the maritime VSAT 
markets, and we have now grown a base of over 
2,400 installed ships and an installation backlog of 
ships, which we will begin to migrate to the maritime 
version of our GX service, called Fleet Xpress, in 
2016. We also continue to operate in difficult 
market conditions, with global trade stagnant and 
the merchant maritime sector and Oil and Gas 
market mired in recession. 
Finally, in late December, we entered into a 
contract with Airbus Defence and Space for the 
manufacture of two Inmarsat-6 spacecraft. These 
new satellites will be launched into orbit in the early 
2020s to begin the replacement of the ageing 
Inmarsat-4 satellites. While the principal role of the 
first two Inmarsat-6s therefore will be to maintain 
our existing L -band service revenues, we have also 
taken the opportunity both to modernise and 
develop the Inmarsat-6 L -band payloads, which will 
allow us to upgrade and develop our future L -band 
services, and to add a Ka-band payload on each 
satellite, to provide rich, new GX services to keep 
our GX service offerings in the vanguard of our 
industry during the 2020s. 
There were many other operational achievements 
during the year, but these three network-related 
activities in 2015 undoubtedly set us up well to 
increase our profitable growth rates in the years to 
come and so are particularly important. Of course, 
we can’t talk about achievements in 2015 without 
mentioning the visit of the Chinese President, Xi 
Jinping, to our London headquarters in October. 
We were greatly honoured by the visit of President 
Xi and his welcoming and attending parties, which 
included HRH The Duke of York and senior British 
and Chinese Government ministers. This was a 
chance to reflect on Inmarsat’s more than 35 years 
of trusted engagement with China across many 
sectors, and indeed, we believe that our new GX 
services will continue to build on that close 
cooperation. This was evidenced by us signing 
a MoU with the Chinese organisation CTTIC to 
explore the delivery of GX services together in 
China and the strategic ‘One Belt One Road’ region.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD
RUPERT PEARCE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
TONY BATES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
ALISON HORROCKS
CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER 
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
LEO MONDALE
PRESIDENT, AVIATION BUSINESS UNIT
GREG EWERT
PRESIDENT, ENTERPRISE BUSINESS UNIT
DEBBIE JONES
CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICER
RUY PINTO
CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER
MICHELE FRANCI
CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER
PAT MCDOUGAL
CHIEF STRATEGY OFFICER
RONALD SPITHOUT
PRESIDENT, MARITIME BUSINESS UNIT
PETER HADINGER
PRESIDENT, US GOVERNMENT 
BUSINESS UNIT
CHRIS MCLAUGHLIN
CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER
ANDY START
PRESIDENT, GLOBAL GOVERNMENT 
BUSINESS UNIT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 09
We don’t shy away from difficult 
technological challenges as 
they present great business 
opportunities.
commercial services for GX cumulatively by some 
nine months. Fortunately, we had previously put 
in place bridging capabilities in the maritime and 
government sectors and so throughout the delay 
we were able to sell regional GX government 
services as well as XpressLink services to the 
maritime sector, maintaining momentum towards 
the rollout of GX services on a global basis.
Similarly, it has been highly challenging to establish 
the EAN, the world’s first integrated satellite/ATG 
network. The challenges are principally 
technological and regulatory. From a regulatory 
perspective, we need (with the support of national 
authorities and the European Commission) to 
develop a coherent and supportive regulatory 
framework for a hybrid satellite ATG network across 
the 28 member states of the European Union. 
And from a technological perspective we need 
to integrate cutting-edge satellite and ATG 
networks to develop powerful, agile, capable and 
complementary service offerings that can deliver 
high value-added aviation passenger connectivity 
it will opt for under the current Agreement. 
We are preparing to support that outcome so 
that we continue to derive financial value from 
the Agreement which exists between us, and will 
deliver revenues and EBITDA contributions for 
many years, while also ensuring that our own 
services can grow in North America alongside 
the LightSquared business. 
Q. WHAT WERE THE CHALLENGES THIS 
YEAR AND HOW DID THE BUSINESS 
RESPOND? 
A. As a pioneer of new technology in the satellite 
industry, we don’t shy away from difficult 
technological challenges, as they can present 
us with great business opportunities. 
The biggest challenge we faced this year has been 
the completion of the Inmarsat-5/Global Xpress 
programme, an immensely complex challenge that 
we initiated in 2010 when we went under contract 
with Boeing for three Inmarsat-5 satellites. Five 
years later, the programme is nearing completion 
but remains enormously demanding in many 
different areas. GX is the world’s first global 
superfast mobile broadband network and 
associated with such a service revolution are 
immense technological, logistical and operational 
challenges. Many Inmarsat-5 programme 
deliverables remain out of our sole control, which 
means that success demands strong collaboration 
skills, patience and agility from us. I’ve already 
mentioned in another answer the impact of the 
launch delay for two of our Inmarsat-5 satellites 
which pushed back the launch of global 
the EAN that I referred to earlier, delivering 
excellent year-on-year revenue growth, with 
especially strong growth in the business aviation 
services (BAS) sector. Our core Inmarsat-4 data 
service, SwiftBroadband, now represents two-thirds 
of aviation revenues and has become a very 
successful product in the business and general 
aviation sectors, as well as a forerunner of GX 
passenger connectivity services in the commercial 
air transport sector. We also made good progress in 
aviation safety services in 2015, trialling our new 
service platform, SwiftBroadband Safety, on several 
commercial platforms (preparatory to commercial 
service introduction in 2016) and announcing new 
service offerings including free tracking, enhanced 
tracking and ‘black box in the cloud’, which we 
believe will make a major contribution to enhanced 
global aviation safety in the future. Finally, we also 
progressed our potential involvement in future 
European air traffic management (ATM) systems, 
via the IRIS programme in partnership with the 
European Space Agency. 
We are entitled to receive payments from 
LightSquared (a US company) in accordance 
with a Cooperation Agreement with them regarding 
spectrum use over North America. This 
arrangement has been ongoing for some time, 
even while LightSquared was in Chapter 11 
bankruptcy protection; it emerged successfully 
from this process at the end of 2015. During 2015 
we accounted for five payments from LightSquared 
(which we accounted for as ‘other income’). 
We look forward to the end of Q1 2016, when 
LightSquared will decide the amount of spectrum  10 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
In 2016, our Maritime business 
will commence the transition of 
XpressLink to Fleet Xpress and 
execute a fast start to the 
launch of GX services to the 
global maritime segment, while 
maintaining FleetBroadband 
growth and the global launch of 
Fleet One and Fleet Media.
 > Aviation: implement the Deutsche Lufthansa 
and Singapore Airlines programmes and secure 
a number of further launch customers for GX 
aviation services and the EAN, while growing our 
global BAS services and introducing SB Safety.
 > Government: deliver a fast start to global GX 
sales to the US and international government 
customers, while continuing to diversify, 
internationalise and innovate.
 > Enterprise: launch GX services into the energy 
and resources segment on the back of our 
strategic partnership with RigNet, while driving 
our services into the transportation, agriculture, 
M2M, smart cities, e-commerce and new 
media segments.
 > Ensure successful 2016 Inmarsat Developer 
and Global Partner Conferences, extending 
and enriching the ‘Inmarsat ecosystem’ 
 > Reorganise our business to make us faster, easier 
and simpler to do business with, including the 
introduction of improved business processes.
 > Ensure our staff are motivated and empowered 
to deliver the Company’s objectives, and 
supported to achieve this through learning and 
development training opportunities, improved 
processes and systems to be more efficient and 
effective, allowing them to work with our partners 
to achieve success.
The successful execution of these plans will 
transform our business and ensure we are well 
positioned for the future.
 > Launch Inmarsat-5 F4, a satellite initially 
manufactured as a launch spare (to insure 
against a launch failure of one of the first three 
Inmarsat-5s) but which can now be launched to 
provide in-orbit redundancy as well as 
incremental global Ka-band capacity.
 > Complete the manufacture of our S-band 
satellite (to be launched in 2017) and maintain 
the pace of development of the EAN technology 
programmes (and associated European 
regulatory environment) to be on track for full 
service availability of the hybrid, integrated 
satellite/ATG services across Europe by 
mid 2017.
 > Establish the Inmarsat-6 programme with Airbus 
for our next-generation L -band services 
platform and GX evolution pathway. 
 > Operationalise our application and service 
collaboration and delivery platform, Inmarsat 
Gateway, to support our certified application 
partner initiative.
 > Deliver on a number of important product and 
service development initiatives, to maintain 
Inmarsat services at the cutting edge in the 
markets that we serve.
 > Ensure an even greater focus in 2016 on cyber 
security, with an intention to make further strides 
towards being best-in-class in cyber resilience 
and develop cyber-as-a-service capabilities.
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS:
 > Maritime: commence the transition of 
XpressLink to Fleet Xpress (the GX maritime 
service) and execute a fast start to the launch 
of GX services to the global maritime segment, 
while maintaining FB growth and the global 
launch of new maritime services such as Fleet 
One and Fleet Media.
and other aviation services seamlessly across 
the entire European landmass and coastal regions. 
We are meeting these challenges by working very 
closely with the European Commission and 
European telecommunication regulators, and by 
establishing a unique coalition of leading European 
innovators and industry in key geographies.
Q. WHAT ARE YOUR KEY PRIORITIES 
OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS?
A. 2016 is a year in which we aim to complete 
several important infrastructure programmes, 
and commence others, and begin an operational 
transformation that begins to positively impact 
our financial performance. We see it as ‘a year of 
transformation’ because the Inmarsat at the end 
of 2016 will have evolved significantly from the 
Inmarsat of today. Let’s look at what is driving 
this transformation:
INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMMES
In 2016 we plan to:
 > Complete the initial phase of the global launch 
of GX services by launching the many different 
varieties of GX services. We must bed down the 
global end-to-end network and the products 
and services running across it, as well as the 
global service delivery and channel to market 
capabilities that we have put in place in recent 
years. By the end of 2016, our intention is that 
GX is well-established in the marketplace as a 
highly reliable, cutting-edge service with high 
relevance to a diverse range of customers.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED We will continue to invest to 
capture emerging high-growth 
markets, such as aviation 
passenger connectivity. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 11
revenues to an annual run-rate of $500m by the 
end of 2020, five years after we started to provide 
GX services on a global basis.
We are also focusing on how we can increase our 
L -band revenues and were delighted to be able to 
announce an order we placed at the end of 2015 to 
buy two Inmarsat-6 satellites which will offer both 
L -band and Ka-band services. This announcement 
allows our existing L -band users to know that we are 
planning for continuity of service, which will include 
our maritime and aviation safety services, well into 
the 2030s. We are also focused on working with 
key countries, such as Russia, India and China, to 
introduce new infrastructure locally as a condition 
to full market access for our services in 
those countries.
Q. HOW DOES CSR INFLUENCE 
INMARSAT’S BUSINESS MODEL?
A. Inmarsat was born with a CSR mandate for 
maritime safety services and such activities remain 
a natural part of what we do today. Our heritage 
and public service commitment to maritime and 
also aviation safety remain key priorities for us and 
we are making enhancements in how we provide 
safety services to these two core areas of our 
business. Our handheld IsatPhone 2 was updated in 
2015 to include a feature which allows users across 
any spectrum of business to make a safety call. 
Further information and examples of our attitude 
and approach to our responsibility for corporate, 
social and environmental matters can be found on 
our website. Additionally, in the resources and 
relationship section of this document, on pages 
25 and 26, we’ve also highlighted some key areas 
which give us great pride to support and be 
involved with.
Aviation safety programmes include working 
closely with other EU partners as part of a 
programme to promote safety enhancements 
and additionally we have been trialling our 
SwiftBroadband Safety service to very positive 
results ahead of its launch service in 2016.
Q. WHAT ARE THE SIGNIFICANT 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR 2016?
A. We believe that our very significant investment 
in recent years in new, highly innovative 
communications platforms (such as GX, 
Inmarsat Gateway and the EAN) positions us 
powerfully for future profitable growth. We will 
continue to invest in completing these projects, 
in ensuring all our services continue to be in the 
vanguard of innovation and capabilities for the 
markets that they serve, and in making the most 
of our technology leadership to capture maximum 
market share in certain emerging high growth 
markets (for example the aviation passenger 
connectivity and M2M markets).
2016 offers specific opportunities:
 > GX services provide the opportunity to offer new 
services to our existing customer base, as well as 
to diversify our business into new markets that 
were hitherto unavailable to us.
 > The EAN offers the opportunity to establish a 
new business proposition to serve the European 
short-haul aviation segment, and the EU 
element of long-haul traffic, with highly 
innovative and unique aviation passenger 
connectivity and other services.
 > Inmarsat Gateway offers the potential for us to 
develop a high-powered ecosystem of certified 
applications partners delivering innovative, 
tailored and value-added services and solutions 
to our channel partners and end customers over 
our diverse global mobile broadband networks.
Q. WHERE WILL YOU FIND OPPORTUNITIES 
FOR MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM GROWTH?
A. When we made the investment decision in our 
GX Ka-band high-speed broadband programme, 
we did so because we saw a market opportunity 
to expand our business into complementary, 
adjacent markets. We have identified new market 
opportunities to use these higher speed satellite 
services in maritime, government, aviation, media 
and other markets where transferring large data 
volume is part of a customer’s business 
requirements. Our stated ambition is to grow GX 
Q. WHAT ARE THE KEY RISKS TO 
ACHIEVING INMARSAT’S STRATEGY?
A. Risk comes hand-in-hand with business 
opportunity. As such we do not regard risk as 
something to be driven out of our business but 
rather as something to be identified and intelligently 
assessed and managed. As such, we operate a 
sophisticated, organisation-wide risk management 
process which is fully integrated into Executive 
Management, Board and Audit Committee meetings 
and discussions. 
Business risk exists throughout our activities and 
ranges from classical ‘black swan’ events such as 
major network outages caused by terrorism or 
another dramatic event, through to systemic 
technology-related risks such as a major cyber 
intrusion or unilateral technology failure (leading 
for example to a total satellite loss), to the normal 
financial, competitive, operational and market risks 
borne by any company operating in the technology 
sector. We have contingency plans in place for 
such events. 
Looking ahead to 2016, our key strategy execution 
risks are as follows:
 > We are in the middle of implementing a number of 
major global technology platforms, including GX, 
the EAN and the Inmarsat Gateway. Delivering 
those platforms on time, to budget and to 
commercial expectations is crucial for our future 
growth and diversification strategy; we have 
established our planning and procedures to 
deliver these platforms.
 > As global mobile broadband trends continue to 
position mobile satellite broadband as an 
important enabler, not only in markets we have 
served in the past but also for new emerging 
opportunities, we see competition intensifying to 
serve those commercial opportunities. This 
makes it important that we can compete 
powerfully for market share and customer loyalty 
through core network and product innovation, 
through the provision of value-added services 
and solutions, and through intimate, agile and 
committed channels to market. 12 / INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
We are the only authorised Global Maritime 
Distress and Safety System (GMDSS) provider. 
In 2016, we are focused on how we can further 
develop our maritime safety capabilities. We are 
proud to serve seafarers with reliable safety 
systems which are used by them to save lives; our 
Inmarsat C service safety service celebrates its 
25th anniversary in 2016 and remains a vital 
safety service.
A specific example of where we have spent time is 
working with organisations in Nigeria (e-health) 
and Kenya (e-banking) to support local 
communities to become connected to the digital 
age by utilising our BGAN technology to connect 
them with the broader environment. 
Q. ANY FINAL OBSERVATIONS?
A. 2015 was a transitional year for us as we made 
significant operational and strategic progress 
towards delivering the technology platforms which 
we believe will be the springboard for our planned 
future business growth. As we operate our business, 
we are scanning the horizon for risks which we may 
encounter and regularly reviewing our mitigating 
activities so that the business can operate 
efficiently and effectively as we seek to increase 
shareholder value.
We look forward to 2016 as a year of 
transformation, delivering top line growth 
thanks to the first year of revenues from our 
global GX services, alongside continued progress 
in the positioning of our L -band services for 
complementary revenue growth. Underpinning 
these opportunities we will continue our ongoing 
investment in innovation to deliver services and 
products which meet our partners’ needs. 
Our current and future success relies on the 
unfailing commitment of our staff and support of 
our partners to deliver first-class reliable services 
to our customers to meet their mission critical 
communication needs whenever and wherever 
required. I’d therefore like to finish by thanking 
these key stakeholders, our staff and our partners, 
for their terrific skills, efforts and professionalism 
in 2015.
RUPERT PEARCE
Chief Executive Officer
3 March 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
OUR BUSINESS – AN OVERVIEW
OUR VISION
To meet the remote and mobile connectivity needs of our customers, giving them what they 
need to connect, reliably, securely and globally.
OUR MISSION
To provide mission-critical communications services to areas where terrestrial systems 
cannot go or are unavailable.
VALUES
Our values make us who we are and determine how we interact with our customers and the 
world at large. They are woven into the fabric of the Company through the people who work for 
us. Our core values help our business operate. Being passionate – this is the fuel that drives us; 
we work to cultivate an open environment for discussion; we encourage innovation and 
ingenuity to be enterprising, and are market-driven to ensure our customer success leads 
to our success.
OUR MARKET
We have a broad portfolio of voice and data services to satisfy our customers’ 
communications requirements, wherever their operations are located. Our services are 
accessed using a variety of devices, from hand-portable satellite phones and remote site 
fixed installations, to vessel, vehicular and airborne mobile terminals, offering different 
performance options to suit their operational needs.
READ MORE
OUR MARKETS P14
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model operates to ensure we maximise the impact of our resources and 
relationships and add value to create benefits for all our stakeholders, with a focus on 
capital growth and increasing dividend returns to our shareholders.
READ MORE
OUR BUSINESS MODEL P18
OUR STRATEGY
To deliver sustained profitable growth through maximising the significant opportunities that 
exist in all our markets through L -band innovation, developing our Ka-band Global Xpress 
services, building out the European Aviation Network business and launching the Inmarsat 
Gateway to support and extend the delivery of our service platforms.
READ MORE
OUR STRATEGY P20
RISK MANAGEMENT
Effective risk management is fundamental to our ability to meet both our short-term and 
longer-term strategic objectives. We manage risk through an overarching risk management 
policy which helps determine our tolerance for risk.
READ MORE
RISK MANAGEMENT P48
