 We have reported substantial revenue growth 
underpinned by DP&G’s GTL interim contract. 
We have a clear path to further revenue and 
margin expansion.
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Introducing EMBRACE: 
Our Platform for 
Transformation
 
During 2015, we have continued to 
work hard to improve our ‘way of 
working’ within the business and to 
ensure the Group’s organisational 
structure is optimised, ‘fit for purpose’ 
and designed in the most cost-effective 
and efficient way to execute our 
growth strategies. 
In order to embed our long-term vision 
for an ‘improved way of working’ and 
create greater commercial focus for  
our 400+ employees around the world, 
a platform for transformation was 
launched in June 2015, called EMBRACE. 
This programme has sought to set  
and re-align internal strategies, key 
business objectives and priorities for 
growth during the next five years,  
with the overall aim of ensuring a faster 
commercialisation of key opportunities. 
Work streams have been established, 
led by our Chief Operating Officer, 
Garrett Forde, to drive the EMBRACE 
agenda with clear project owners and 
supporting teams to achieve on-time 
commercial delivery.
Dr Henri Winand
Chief Executive Officer
In many ways, it has been a very important 
year for Intelligent Energy, with key steps 
forward across each division. We have 
reported substantial revenue growth, 
underpinned by DP&G’s GTL interim 
contract. In addition, we have a clear path 
to further revenue and margin expansion 
with the expected completion of the  
long-term contracts with GTL in Q1 2016. 
Our Motive division continues to build 
relationships with leading vehicle 
manufacturers, while ‘Dieselgate’ and 
‘Petrolgate’ are fundamental drivers for 
change in the automotive industry. Within 
Consumer Electronics, the integration of 
the BIC IP acquisition is progressing well 
and we are delighted with the broader 
applications of the acquired IP across  
other parts of the business. We continue  
to collect important customer data through 
the Upp product, which is a key part of  
our embedded technology strategy.  
With regard to our funding requirements, 
we continue to make progress on our 
announced two-stage funding process.
Strategic focus and outlook
DP&G division
• The GTL contract is expected to complete 
in Q1 2016 and once completed, profit 
margins are expected to increase to  
c.15 per cent
• Excellent relationships with the majority 
of the key telecom operators
• Working to deliver a second GTL-sized 
contract in FY2016 
• High degree of confidence in medium-
term target of 125,000–135,000 towers
Motive division
• Recent industry news-flow accelerating 
momentum toward hydrogen fuel cells 
• Positive dialogue with a number of car 
manufacturers – broadening pipeline  
of potential JDA partners 
• Delivering on our commitments to current 
JDA partners 
• Expansion of our current activities into  
the emerging field of zero-emission  
range extended vehicles
CE division
• Finalise migration to JDA model,  
followed by potential licence and  
royalties opportunities 
• Complete the integration of BIC and 
leverage that IP across all divisions
• Continuing positive industrial  
partner discussions 
People
We were pleased to make a number of 
important appointments through the  
year. We appointed Garrett Forde as  
Chief Operating Officer and a member  
of the Group Executive. Garrett is 
responsible for managing the Group’s  
three divisions, its engineering and 
technology development activities, and  
the streamlining of its end-to-end business 
operations. We have also strengthened  
our investor relations function. 
Following the completion of the BIC 
acquisition, we also appointed an acting 
Managing Director of the CE division, Julian 
Hughes. In addition, the Group is currently 
recruiting a new Managing Director of the 
Motive division.
Dr Henri Winand
Chief Executive Officer
27 November 2015
09 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
