 2
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman's Statement
David Rolph
I today report the audited results of InterBulk Group plc for the year 
ended 30 September 2015. Throughout the year, market conditions 
have been challenging with downward pressure on volume and 
margin. Revenue in the year declined by 12% compared to last 
year to £225.3 million, and gross margin by a similar percentage 
to £29.2 million. A strong focus on efficiency reduced overheads 
(before exceptional items) year-on-year by 14% to £21.7 million and 
resulting in operating profit (before amortisation and exceptional 
items) being only 8% below the prior year at £8.1 million. Interest 
savings of £0.6 million were achieved in the year resulting in profit 
before amortisation, exceptional items and tax consistent with last 
year at £3.2 million. We were able to continue our six year track 
record of reducing net debt, ending the year with a reduction of 
£7.0 million to £53.2 million.
The Liquid Bulk tank container division faced intense competition 
throughout the year. The number of moves in Liquid Bulk declined 
by 6% year on year and this was the main cause of a 9% decline in 
revenue to £139.6 million compared with the prior year. Business 
in the main geographic regions was behind prior year except in 
China where moves increased by 13%. The sharp drop in oil prices 
resulted in destocking in the global supply chains and low logistics 
activity during the first half of the year, which when coupled with 
the intensification of competition triggered by this, put pressure on 
tender processes during the second half, especially in Europe. Liquid 
Bulk operating profit (before exceptional items) was £1.1m lower 
year on year at £6.8 million. 
Our Dry Bulk business has been impacted by the closure of a number 
of customer manufacturing facilities in the face of increasing polymer 
imports from regions with advantaged feedstocks. The necessary 
adjustments to European operating capacity in the polymer industry 
have continued this year and volumes have decreased further. Our 
Dry Bulk annual revenue declined year on year by 17% to £84.4 
million, due to the combination of 10% fewer moves and the weaker 
Euro/Sterling rate. However, our Asian business performed well after 
the investments made in 2014. We have increased efficiency and 
centralised our business organisation and the reduction in overheads 
achieved meant that operating profit (before exceptional items) fell 
only £0.3 million year on year to £1.3 million. 
Our specialist InBulk Technologies business which commercialises 
our patented ISO-Veyor equipment in the oil field services sector 
performed well with a reversal of a loss making position in the prior 
year to an operating profit of £0.5 million. 
In overall terms, the fact that our profit before tax (before exceptional 
items) has been maintained in the face of well-documented adverse 
market conditions demonstrates the strong resilience of our business 
model and represents a reasonable outcome for the year. 
Our Strategy
InterBulk’s vision is to be a leading global supplier of intermodal 
logistics solutions to customers in the chemical, polymer and food 
industries, spanning both dry and liquid bulk supply chains, using 
our established network in Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific, 
and employing the best people in the industry. We will continue to 
strengthen partnerships with our customers and logistics service 
partners around the world. 
Over the year we have worked hard on our cost competitiveness 
in response to the intensification of the competitive environment. 
Our senior team has been reorganised and our physical presence 
in the Americas and Asia has been reinforced. We now have direct 
representation in Japan, Singapore and Malaysia replacing previous 
agency arrangements. Having achieved a significant reduction in 
overheads in our Dry Bulk division, we have now also centralised 
our short-sea intra-European Liquid Bulk customer service function. 
The core strategic elements for the Group remain to: 
•	 Deliver excellent Health & Safety performance following the 
principles of Responsible Care™ 
•	 Invest in a high performance global team committed to the 
business strategy with high levels of divisional collaboration 
and business innovation to produce superior results.  INTRODUCTION BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL
3
•	 Lead the market in terms of operational cost competitiveness 
by continuously driving procurement savings initiatives and 
improve operational performance by efficiencies to optimise 
traffic flow balance and reduce empty positioning.
•	 Grow our business in Asia through a strong development of the 
Sinotrans InterBulk Alliance (SIA). 
•	 Develop our Liquid Bulk deep-sea operations in the growth 
regions of China, the Middle East, Russia and Asia.
•	 Expand our Dry Bulk business globally once we see sustained 
recovery in our European Dry Bulk business and continued good 
progress in South East Asia. 
•	 Integrate with customers by offering innovative supply 
chain and 3rd party fleet management solutions using high 
performance IT tools. 
Funding
Net debt was reduced by a further £7.0 million in the year. We have 
now reduced Group indebtedness in each of the past six financial 
years. The Group had net debt (defined as bank loans, overdrafts and 
obligations under finance leases less cash and cash equivalents) at 
30 September 2015 of £53.2 million comprising:
30 September
2015
£’000
30 September
2014
£’000
Term bank loans 47,338 57,212
Asset finance lease creditor 15,634 13,196
less Cash and cash equivalents
(9,761) (10,175)
53,211 60,233
Subsequent to the year end, we have agreed with our banking 
partners to extend the life of the existing principal facilities to 31 
March 2017, and financial covenants have been adjusted to provide 
adequate headroom through this period. The current revolving credit 
facilities of £10m has likewise been extended by six months, after 
which they will continue to 31 March 2017 but at a £2.5m level. The 
principal risks and uncertainties, including access to capital, which 
could potentially impact the Group are shown on pages 13 to 15.
Outlook
The global chemical industry remains on a path of long term growth 
due to the wide range of benefits it brings to consumers, with logistics 
playing an important part in supporting this growth. Intermodal 
solutions are aligned with the supply chains becoming longer, more 
complex and demanding greater environmental consideration.
Crude oil prices have an impact on the relative competitiveness of the 
chemical industry by region, and the fall in prices, if maintained, would 
favour production from oil based feedstocks which is predominantly 
the case in Europe, Asia and South America. In contrast the Middle 
East and US Mexican Gulf Coast would see a substantial erosion 
of their previously advantaged position. Nevertheless changes in 
installed capacity are very expensive and slow to realise, and so it 
is reasonable to expect that new capacity already installed or under 
construction in the US and the Middle East will continue to impact 
the global balance of production.
The chemical sector is expected to demonstrate modest growth in 
the short to medium term and we are well represented throughout 
this customer base in most regions. Supply chain volatility will likely 
remain high, reflecting continued geo-political uncertainties, and 
a relative weakness in the global economy. The Group has taken 
steps to reduce costs and improve competitiveness to deal with 
the challenges of our business environment and this places us in a 
position to achieve profitable growth. The Board wishes to record its 
appreciation for the dedication of all InterBulk Group employees who 
have worked tirelessly and tackled the challenges of a tough external 
environment.
The Board has been considering carefully the optimal route forward 
for all of our stakeholders. The impact on our markets of the financial 
crisis and the global economic downturn of recent years has been 
substantial and has prompted industry-wide strategic change. Our 
business model has enabled us to sustain our profitability and to 
reduce bank debt throughout that difficult period but it is vital 
that we position the Group for success in the future, recognising 
the new dynamics in our sector. Having evaluated a number of 
strategic options, the Board has concluded that becoming part of 
a strong partner offers an attractive and exciting way forward for 
the Company. The Company has announced separately today that 
it has reached agreement on the terms of a recommended cash 
offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company at a price  4
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman's Statement continued
of 9 pence per share by Den Hartogh Holding B.V. The combination 
of Den Hartogh B.V. and InterBulk will create a major player in the 
international bulk transport solutions market in which there is a 
growing need for consolidation to meet customer demands in what 
is a competitive market. The entities have a highly complementary 
offering given their business models and geographical footprint. The 
combination will create a stronger, global organisation with more 
balanced operations and offer significant operational benefits to 
customers. 
David Rolph 
Non-Executive Chairman 5
