 6
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive's Review
Market Overview
The global chemical industry, which is our main customer base, has 
grown 3 to 4% during the year to 30 September 2015. European 
production also recovered slightly, but remains approximately 10% 
below 2008 levels. This rate of recovery is forecast to continue next 
year, but there remain several risks, such as the current geo-political 
tensions, and economic slowdown in any of the major regions, 
which could limit chemical demand. However, it is still believed 
that a number of developments including technical innovation, will 
ensure that demand growth for chemicals will exceed GDP globally. 
Regions with previously advantaged feedstock positions (principally 
the US Gulf Coast and the Middle East) will continue to bring new 
capacity on-line as existing projects come to completion in the next 
two years. Asia (principally China and India) has been the other main 
location of investment in chemical production due to the scale and 
rapid growth of domestic consumption. The current depressed oil 
price is helping the profitability of oil based producers (principally 
those in Asia, Europe and South America) while squeezing the 
formerly advantaged areas of the US and Middle East. Nevertheless 
the marginal economics will still favour running at capacity in these 
latter regions. The changes in the global chemical manufacturing 
footprint have a tangible impact on both our own customer base 
and our business mix and we continue to follow these developments 
carefully in order to respond accordingly. Looking forward, logistics 
will remain a critical aspect in this dynamic market.
Intermodal logistics solutions continue to gain market share from 
other transport modes driven by the flexibility offered in the 
supply chain, and the reduced environmental impact. For deep sea 
operations, the tankcontainer provides a unique logistics solution. 
The attractiveness of this growth story has triggered a rapid 
expansion of the global tankcontainer fleet which has led to short-
term over-capacity from time to time, and created the conditions 
for industry consolidation. In intra-European transportation, the 
intermodal operators continue to be challenged by “traditional” road 
transportation. Despite the environmental agenda and the desire 
to see less freight on the roads, this form of competition remains 
strong, and is active even for the longer distances (over 400 km) 
which should be less viable for a direct trucking option. In servicing 
the changing chemical market, it is important to provide sustainable 
and flexible logistics solutions by expanding and adapting our 
network and developing new partnerships, for example through our 
strategic alliance with Sinotrans in Asia which we will continue to 
expand in 2016.
InterBulk has an outsourced business model in which all transportation 
and support services are performed through partners. This creates a 
global and flexible business model with a minimum of fixed costs and 
increasingly important advantages in the volatile market in which we 
operate. Deep-sea container shipping still faces overcapacity with 
rates under pressure, and there is volatility on specific trade lanes 
making fleet balancing difficult. In Europe, driver shortages remain 
a dilemma for the industry and is typically leading to higher costs to 
attract and retain drivers. Europe continues to see additional tariffs 
for transportation such as the low sulphur regulations on shipping 
which came into force on 1 January 2015, new road toll charges and 
other regulations. We continue to be proactive in our communication 
concerning these imposed industry wide charges with customers and 
the impact on our freight rates. 
Operational Performance
Liquid Bulk
The Liquid Bulk division (tank containers) activity, as measured by 
moves performed, decreased year on year by 6% across both the 
intra-European and global businesses. During the first quarter, there 
were a number of temporary plant shut-downs in Europe as the 
destocking from the collapse in the oil price created a slow start to 
the financial year. We saw some pick-up in activity during March and 
April but this was not maintained with renewed pressure on volumes 
especially on deep-sea export activity from Europe which impacted 
our fleet utilisation and equipment balance in the second half of the 
year. During the last two months of the financial year export activity 
from the US also reduced sharply across most of our customer base. 
On the other hand, growth has continued in Asia, and particularly 
in China, as we gain advantage from our alliance with Sinotrans in 
the region. Across the year our fleet size was unchanged at 10,900 
tankcontainers; a small expansion of 200 tanks in the first half was 
offset by the return of some hired tanks later in the year.
While the global market for tankcontainer solutions is growing at 
attractive rates, there has been considerable expansion of the global 
fleet in recent years leading to short term overcapacity, and there 
Loek Kullberg 7
INTRODUCTION BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL
has been increased competition from regional European competitors 
extending their services to include deep-sea activity. During the year 
we have seen aggressive rates being offered in tender processes, 
and we have stepped out of some positions preferring to focus on 
business with reasonable margins and a good fleet balance capability, 
while at the same time working hard to improve our cost efficiency. 
The result has been that we have maintained our divisional operating 
profit margin (before exceptional items) at 5% of revenue.
The number of intra-European moves decreased by 6% year on year. 
We were able to maintain a steady level of activity in UK exports 
but there was a reduction in volume in mainland European markets, 
partly as a result of a decision to exit some low margin business and 
the costs associated with it. The European export deep-sea activity 
has been the area of the greatest competition in tenders and also 
change in customer requirements. This situation has resulted in a lot 
of switching between various suppliers at individual customers, and 
while we have had success in building up new contract positions, we 
have not yet replaced all of the reduced lane allocations from tenders 
during the summer period. Across the year as a whole, there was a 
reduction of 10% in European deep-sea moves. 
The market in the Americas was characterised by considerable 
volatility during the year as our customers have had to contend with 
a sharp destocking triggered by the collapse of the oil price, and 
substantial movements in inter-regional competitiveness affecting 
the magnitude and direction of trade flows. We have been able to 
maintain a stable customer base, but the market volatility has caused 
difficulties in maintaining tankcontainer availability, and extra costs 
from repositioning empty units to keep the business moving. The 
number of moves fell 10% overall year on year. Nevertheless, the 
Americas is a growth market and we will continue to develop a 
partnership approach with our customers and remain focused on 
fleet management discipline to return the business to growth.
Asia has seen a further year of growth with a 3% increase in the 
number of moves, as we continue to work with Sinotrans to develop 
our position in the region. The benefit of our own in house team in 
China with representation in Shanghai, Qingdao and Guangzhou has 
ensured strong growth in China export activity of 13% year on year. 
In the rest of Asia we have successfully transitioned from an agency 
network to our own representation in key countries, putting in place 
the platform for future growth in this attractive market.
The tankcontainer liquid bulk business is established globally and 
the regions of Europe, Asia and the Americas are strongly inter-
dependent. Our goal is to ensure efficient utilisation of the total 
fleet at attractive margins and, while our business is controlled and 
reported by regions, we target the best global result.
Dry Bulk
The Dry Bulk division is predominantly European based and we have 
continued to be heavily impacted by the competitive pressures that 
our polymer producing customers face which have led to numerous 
plant closures affecting our volumes and equipment balances. We 
have responded to this by right sizing our fleet and consolidating and 
streamlining our organisation, as a result of which we have been able 
to maintain the profitability of the division.
The transportation activity, as measured by moves performed, was 
down 10% year on year, and the revenue from temporary storage 
declined by 24%. The majority of our revenue and transportation 
costs are Euro denominated and the weakness of the Euro during the 
year has had a material impact on our sterling reported revenue and 
margin, and explains why the division’s reported revenue of £84.4 
million has fallen by 17% from the prior year; exceeding the decline 
in transportation moves. 
The bag-in-box provides a cost effective, high integrity solution for 
the food industry and we have well established business and a stable 
customer base. However after achieving growth in previous years, 
the number of moves achieved in the food sector fell by 13% this 
year compared with the prior year. Our commercial effort will be 
refocused to ensure that we maximise the opportunity from the large 
market in Europe, utilising our existing infrastructure and equipment 
base and strong customer references. 
The Dry Bulk activities outside Europe which are focused on South 
East Asia have seen a strong improvement in operating profit from 
our activities in this area after equipment investments in 2014. 
Further investments will be made in the next few months to build on 
this success. Only once recovery has been achieved in our European 
Dry Bulk business, will we seek further geographic expansion. 
The performance of our on-site terminal services has been 
encouraging in the current year. Profitable operation of our two 
sites in Russia has combined with high activity at our largest 
operation in Wilton in the UK, which compensates for the loss of 
our terminal service agreement in Austria. Our Duisburg terminal 
which was designed to be a multi-customer operation has not 
developed as we had envisaged and following the year-end, we have 
reached agreement with the landlord of the site which will allow the 
closure of our operations by January 2016, and removing a loss of 
approximately £0.5 million per annum. 
Following on from the reorganisation of the European Dry Bulk 
division last year we have continued to push for greater efficiency 
from the centralisation of our internal operations. Other than 
commercial and key account management, the vast majority of our  8
InterBulk Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive's Review continued
Dry Bulk staff are located in our Hull office. The annualised impact 
of the large scale reorganisation and steps taken this year resulted 
in a further £1.1 million of reduction in our Dry Bulk overheads. We 
have reduced our fleet size to match demand levels with the 30 foot 
container fleet at approximately 6,900 units at 30 September 2015, 
down by 9% in the year. 
Our efforts to quickly adapt our organisation and resources to 
the challenging external environment have ensured that despite 
a reduction in revenue and an unfavourable currency movement, 
our operating profit (before exceptional items) for the division of 
£1.3 million represented only a £0.3 million reduction year on year. 
On a constant currency basis, these efforts would have resulted in an 
improvement in the overall result. 
Our ISO-Veyor technology, which provides a solution for materials 
with difficult flow characteristics, has established a presence in the 
movement of cement and associated construction products and also 
in other specialised markets. During the year we have secured new 
contracts which have resulted in a much improved utilisation of 
the ISO-Veyor fleet. This included a three year rental agreement in 
the UK for the entire fleet of 30 foot aluminium units. Our 20 foot 
fleet is now mainly focused on the provision of solutions to the 
oilfield services market and has also seen good utilisation during the 
year. These commercial successes have underpinned a £0.5 million 
operating profit in the year in our InBulk Technologies business.
People
Our people are the core resource of the Group and critical to our 
future success. Excellent customer service and the ability to deliver 
cost effective solutions to our customers are driven by the efforts 
of our team and while our information systems provide the data to 
manage the business, it is our people who make the difference.
The tough market conditions during the past year have unfortunately 
meant we have had to make further redundancies. This is a 
challenging exercise but the remaining staff have supported these 
changes and reacted well to the new organisation. We continue to 
have a well-motivated team who are deeply committed with vast 
experience in intermodal logistics. 
There will be no change to our desire to ensure that our employees 
work within a fair and transparent structure, their expertise is put to 
good use and they develop in a group that puts health, safety, quality 
and environmental considerations at the forefront of everything we 
do.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The InterBulk Group aims for 100% safe operations and protection of 
people and the environment. We are fully committed to sustainability 
and are a partner to the chemical industry Responsible Care™ charter. 
We take a lead, and commit resources together with the logistics and 
chemical industry associations on health and safety improvement 
initiatives that impact on business developments. A core value of 
the InterBulk Group is to act according to uncompromising levels 
of responsible care, hygiene and environmental standards to protect 
people and the environment. Quality, health, safety, security, hygiene 
and environmental performance are considered using metrics 
reviewed at each Board meeting. The Responsible Care principles 
are cascaded throughout the Company and promulgated along the 
logistics chain. This year has seen a continued reinforcement to the 
mission critical area of Health and Safety and the whole organisation 
is actively engaged in driving improvement. 
We have a set of core values and policies in a number of areas. These 
values apply to every director and employee in all of our companies 
across our global operations. The Board of Directors remains 
committed to ensuring that the correct processes, governance 
and cultures exist to support the maintenance of these values and 
behaviours. 
Summary
The 2015 financial year has seen challenging market conditions with 
pressure on volume and margin. Our variable cost model has been 
invaluable in this environment, and our team’s focus on driving 
cost improvements to protect our margin levels has been of key 
importance. Overall, and considering the headwinds faced in the 
current year, we are satisfied with the results for the year. 
I remain convinced that our global market position, operating model, 
focus on intermodal solutions and above all our people provide a 
sound platform for the future and we are in a strong position to 
benefit from improvements in market conditions. As set out above, 
the Company has today announced that it has reached agreement 
on the terms of a recommended cash offer for the entire issued 
share capital of the Company at a price of 9 pence per share by Den 
Hartogh Holding B.V. There will be significant business benefits for 
InterBulk and its customers from the transaction, including business 
scale, investment in growth and opportunities to further leverage 
the operational platforms. Together the businesses will be able to 
better meet the competitive and regulatory challenges facing the 
market and will benefit from the enhanced profile of what will be an 
enlarged scale operation.
Loek Kullberg 
Chief Executive Officer 9
