 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 16
Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review
‘I find out what the world needs,  
then I proceed to invent it’ 
So said Thomas Edison, who established the Edison Lamp 
Testing Bureau in 1896, one of the founding companies of 
Intertek. The ability to anticipate future trends has been a 
strength of Intertek over the years. Staying close to our 
customer needs is embedded in our day-to-day business to 
ensure that, as a company, we remain forward-looking and 
relevant in a rapidly changing world. This is the reason Intertek 
has a great heritage reaching back well over 100 years and over 
that time, our purpose, our vision and our mission are 
essentially unchanged.
Our purpose is bringing quality and safety to life. 
Our vision is to become the world’s most trusted partner  
for quality assurance.
Our mission is to exceed our clients’ expectations with 
independent, innovative and bespoke assurance, testing, 
inspection and certification services for their operations  
and supply chains. Globally. 24/7. 
2015 PERFORMANCE
We are pleased with the progress of the Group and we 
delivered a solid performance in 2015. Our organic growth 
momentum has improved and we have delivered EPS  
growth of 6.5%.
The Group remains strongly cash-generative and we have 
continued to invest in growth with capex and M&A in 
businesses with good growth and good margin prospects.
Given the continuing challenging trading conditions in the 
global oil and gas industry, we have taken a £577m non-cash 
impairment charge to reflect the uncertainties. This one-off 
charge has had a material impact on our reported profits,  
but does not impact the solid underlying performance  
of the business.
We have a tradition of innovation and as I travel around our 
operations across the globe to meet with our employees, 
customers, governments and regulators, I experience this 
innovative spirit every day across our business. 
As I have come to know Intertek, I am clear that we have five 
fundamental strengths that make our business successful:
• a global network of state-of-the-art facilities
• a powerful portfolio with leadership positions
• the depth and breadth of Quality Assurance solutions
• a high margin, strong cash-generative earnings model
• a passionate and entrepreneurial culture
We are a growth company operating in a unique growth 
industry. We have more opportunities today than ever before – 
from consumers demanding higher quality and greater 
sustainability; from regulators demanding safer products and 
better working conditions; and from companies focusing on 
reducing the risks in their increasingly complex operations and 
supply chains. 
We have indeed some truly exciting opportunities to make 
Intertek a great company.
 “Intertek is a growth company 
on a ‘good to great’ journey.”
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
Intertek is a business that has 
consistently innovated and evolved to 
meet changing needs and demands. 
Today, consumers are demanding 
higher quality and greater 
sustainability; regulators are 
demanding safer products and better 
working conditions; and companies are 
focusing on reducing the risks in their 
increasingly complex operations and 
supply chains. We are evolving our 
Total Quality Assurance Proposition to 
address the needs of our clients and 
see us seizing the exciting growth 
opportunities in our changing industry. 17 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHANGING INDUSTRY DYNAMICS POSITIVE FOR INTERTEK 
When companies outsource their supply chain around the 
world, it makes them more complicated and complex to 
manage. As a result, ensuring quality, traceability, ethical supply 
and sustainability in the supply chain has become the number 
one issue for many businesses. In today’s ever more connected 
world, problems or issues are quickly disseminated and can be 
extremely damaging for any business. 
As a result, both Board and management focus on risk 
management of their operations and supply chain is increasing. 
And, importantly, it is on shareholders’ agenda too.
In November 2015, Stephanie Pfeifer, chief executive of the 
Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change, a group 
representing 118 investors with €12tn in assets under 
management wrote an open letter to EU policymakers stating 
that ‘investors need to be reassured that testing is reliable’ so 
that they can allocate ‘capital to those entities that are best 
placed to deliver enduring value to shareholders’. I truly believe 
that it is only a matter of time before investors ask for more 
transparency on risk management and quality assurance.
At its core, Testing, Inspection and Certification (‘TIC’) is  
the quality control of end product formulations, raw materials, 
components and assets. However the industry is evolving 
beyond Quality Control and increasingly includes Quality 
Assurance as corporations increase their focus on the 
management of risk for their operations and supply chain.
Indeed our customers now expect a Total Quality Assurance 
solution that includes systemic and in-depth Assurance, Testing, 
Inspection and Certification for their business. The TIC industry 
is gradually becoming the ATIC Quality Assurance market, 
which, as a market leader in Assurance, is an exciting 
opportunity for our business and Group.
Assurance ensures our clients identify and mitigate the  
intrinsic risk in their operations, supply chain and quality 
management systems. 
We have over 3,000 auditors and conduct on average  
90,000 audits annually delivering assurance through ISO 
certificates and non-ISO evaluations, as well as ensuring 
businesses comply with regulations and improve  
performance within their supply chains.
In addition to Assurance, we provide our customers with 
Testing, Inspection and Certifications. We do that every day, 
around the globe and we do it very well. We are one of the 
market leaders with a global footprint of over 41,000 people 
and 1,000 laboratories and offices in over 100 countries. 
Testing is evaluating how the products and services of our 
clients meet and exceed quality, safety, sustainability and 
performance standards. 
Inspection is validating the specifications, value and safety  
of raw materials, products and assets. 
Certification is certifying that products and services meet 
trusted standards.
ATTRACTIVE GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES 
The ATIC Quality Assurance market is a $250 billion 
opportunity with significant growth opportunities.
We provide ATIC services to our clients in three distinct  
sectors of the global economy that share broadly common 
characteristics – Products, Trade and Resources – and this  
is how we will report our progress going forward.
• Products is consumer goods, commercial & electrical, 
chemicals & pharmaceuticals and business assurance
• Trade is cargo, agriculture, government & trade services
• Resources is oil and gas capex and opex-related industry 
spend, minerals.
90% of our operating profit is derived from Products- and 
Trade-related businesses, both of which are delivering good 
growth fuelled by the higher quality and safety standards 
requested by consumers and the growth of global and regional 
trade. The third sector serviced by our business model, 
Resources, has experienced more difficult trading conditions 
over the past 12 to 24 months and, while we expect the market 
to remain challenging in the short term, the need to support 
the demands of a growing global population means we remain 
confident in the longer term outlook for the sector. 
Given our broad service portfolio, our technical expertise and 
our global network of facilities, we are, in my view, extremely 
well positioned to take advantage of the various growth 
opportunities and to deliver global GDP plus organic revenue 
growth over the medium to long term. We will do this by 
offering a superior service proposition delivered by passionate 
employees and a Total Quality Assurance Solution leveraging 
our technical expertise and bespoke innovative ATIC solutions. 
We see four growth opportunities. First, the structural factors 
that drive growth in quality control such as global trade, 
changing regulation, increasing quality standards, consumer or 
customer focus on sustainability, innovation, e-commerce, new 
brands, and technology as well as the increased focus of Boards 
and management on risk in their supply chain and operations. 
Second, growing our market share with existing customers, 
through providing additional services, across more products or 
projects and wider coverage of the supply chain. 
Third, gaining new customer contracts and convincing those 
businesses performing TIC in-house that they should outsource. 
We estimate that around four-fifths of the ATIC market, 
equivalent to $200 billion, is in-house. We talk to these 
companies, offering a solution that will enable them to focus 
their resources on their core activities by providing the latest 
capabilities and familiarity with the latest regulations. As 
importantly, we provide independent expertise.
The fourth opportunity is industry consolidation. We have a 
highly cash-generative business model and a strong balance 
sheet to accelerate organic growth with selective acquisitions. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 18
Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
INTERTEK TOTAL QUALITY ASSURANCE PROPOSITION
We are providing our clients with independent, innovative  
and bespoke quality assurance solutions for their operations 
and supply chains 24 hours a day, 7 days a week across  
100 countries. 
The strength of our Service, Business Lines and Countries 
portfolio enables us to seize the exciting growth opportunities 
in the ATIC Quality Assurance market globally as we offer our 
clients a broad base offering of ATIC solutions.
The Intertek Total Quality Assurance Proposition is a compelling 
client offering based on:
• A global network of state-of-the-art facilities;
• Industry-leading technical expertise;
• Total Quality Assurance with ATIC services;
• Innovative and bespoke ATIC solutions in the Products, Trade, 
Resources sectors; and 
• Superior customer service 24/7 fuelled by Industry-winning 
processes and our customer-centric culture.
Superior customer service is a key differentiator. I believe that 
creating a customer service for our clients will be a true 
accelerator of growth. We are increasing our efforts to 
continuously develop innovative processes to improve our 
customer service and at the core of this is using the Net 
Promotor Score (‘NPS’) methodology. 
We want to leverage our passionate culture across our Group 
through engaged employees. We champion amongst our teams 
entrepreneurship, excellence, diversity, innovation, agility and, 
most importantly, we foster a focus on collaboration to create 
cross-selling opportunities and a sustainable business. 
I strongly believe that in a decentralised and diverse global 
service business, fostering the right customer-centric culture  
will make our Intertek Total Quality Assurance Proposition  
a unique competitive advantage. 
We have revisited our values to drive the right cultural 
behaviours and we have identified five values that are true to 
who we are:
•  We are a global family that values diversity.
• We always do the right thing. With precision,  
pace and passion.
• We trust each other and have fun winning together.
• We own and shape our future.
• We create sustainable growth. For All.
OUR 5X5 STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
To seize the exciting ATIC growth opportunities ahead and 
deliver our Total Quality Assurance Proposition, we have 
identified 5 clear strategic priorities and the right 5 enablers. 
I call this our 5×5 growth strategy – five strategic priorities  
and five enablers.
The five strategic priorities are: 
A Strong Brand Proposition that positions Intertek as  
the market leading quality assurance provider. Our brand 
proposition and our well-known and respected legacy  
brands will build awareness of our strong quality  
assurance value proposition.
Superior Customer Service that supports premium pricing, 
listens to our customers to improve delivery and develops 
innovative solutions leveraging technology to make Intertek  
the most trusted quality assurance provider.
An Effective Sales Strategy that delivers organic revenue 
growth, developing our business with existing customers  
and winning new clients.
A Growth- and Margin-accretive Portfolio strategy that 
delivers growth at the business line, country and service levels. 
It is about deciding where we want to allocate our people and 
capital resource to move the centre of gravity of the Company 
towards the good growth and good margin areas in the 
industry operating within strict capital allocation guidelines.  
We will manage organic performance and pursue M&A 
opportunities based on these portfolio priorities. 
Operational Excellence to drive productivity. We will  
continue to eliminate non-essential costs, which will involve  
the consolidation of facilities and back offices, as well as 
streamlining and optimising our processes through improved 
IT infrastructure and technology. 
The five enablers are:
Led by what I call ‘Living Our Customer-centric Culture’. 
We have a strong entrepreneurial spirit and are decentralised 
which means our businesses are very close to their markets. 
Our people really are passionate about what they do - they 
understand their business and their markets. We can build  
on these very strong foundations, empowering the workforce 
and putting the customer first. 
Second is Disciplined Performance Management to deliver 
margin accretive revenue growth with strong cash conversion 
and returns on capital. We will focus on internal/external 
benchmarking with improved reporting process and leverage 
technology to manage aligned financial and non-financial 
performance metrics. 
Superior Technology will add value to customers and increase 
our productivity. Our focus will be to improve the functionality 
and experience of our client-facing IT systems to provide the 
expected data intelligence as well as increasing the productivity 
of our back-office systems. 
Energising Our People in an engaged workforce is key. We 
are a people business and I am a firm believer that by providing 
personal growth opportunities and clear guidelines on 
expectations we can unleash the undoubted potential of the 
Intertek organisation. We will invest in capability to support  
and fuel our growth agenda and ensure that our reward and 
recognition strategy drives high and sustainable performance.
Delivering Sustainable Results, Everywhere, Every Day. 
This is about creating sustainable growth for our Customers, 
Employees, Shareholders, Suppliers and the community.  
We strongly believe that doing business the right way with  
all stakeholders will underpin the sustainability of our  
growth performance. 19 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
SHORT-TERM PRIORITIES IN 2016
To implement our 5x5 strategy we will be very focused in  
2016 on ensuring internal alignment on revenue, margins  
and cash delivery.
Ensuring alignment inside the company through: 
• an organisational structure supporting our business model;
• sponsorship of the 5x5 strategy at the top of the business  
with our growth agenda shared by the Executive Team;
• improving performance management;
• increased communications effort and best practice  
sharing; and
• a new short-term incentive scheme with a focus on margin 
accretive revenue growth with strong cash conversion to 
deliver strong returns.
In 2016, to deliver revenue growth, we plan to:
• execute the short-term action plans in our global business lines;
• develop and launch innovative ATIC Solutions in Products, 
Trade and Resources;
• drive ATIC cross-selling to existing and new customers based 
on key account plans;
• implement NPS measurement to measure our Customer 
service delivery; and
• prioritise organic capex investments.
To deliver margin and cash improvement, we plan to:
• implement the 2015 cost restructuring activities;
• continue to look at cost saving opportunities by reviewing 
facilities, processes and purchasing;
• drive operational excellence with focus on financial and non-
financial metrics;
• ensure we manage our capacity and costs tightly in Industry 
Services and Minerals; and
• continue to improve cash management.
FOCUSED PORTFOLIO STRATEGY
Pursuing a growth- and margin-accretive portfolio is one of  
our five strategic priorities.
When managing our day-to-day performance and allocating 
our capital and people resource, we will pursue a three-tier 
portfolio strategy.
First, we will focus on our large businesses with good growth 
and margin prospects. These areas of focus are:
 –   At the Business Line level: Softlines, Hardlines, Electrical & 
Wireless, Cargo & Analytical Assessment and Government 
& Trade Services.
 –  At the Geographic level: North America, Greater China.
Second, we will invest in fast-growing businesses with good 
margin prospects where the focus areas are:
 – At the Business Line level: Business Assurance, Agriculture, 
Building & Construction, Transportation Technologies  
and Food.
 – At the Geographic level: South Asia, South East Asia, South 
America, Middle East and Africa.
Third, we will focus on improving the performance in:
 – At the Business Line level: Industry Services and Minerals.
 – At the Geographic level: Europe and Australasia.
DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
In my view, to deliver shareholder returns on a consistent basis 
the right formula is sustainable earnings growth with accretive 
disciplined allocation of capital. The first priority when it 
comes to capital allocation is investment supporting organic 
growth through capital expenditure and working capital to 
grow market share by delivering new services, opening new 
locations and winning new clients in areas with good growth 
and good margin prospects. In the medium to long term,  
we will invest 5% of revenue in capital expenditure.
The second priority is to deliver sustainable returns for our 
shareholders through the payment of progressive dividends.  
I am very comfortable with our current dividend payout ratio  
of circa 40% of earnings. 
The third priority for capital is M&A activity to strengthen  
our portfolio in the right growth areas provided we can deliver 
good returns. This means focusing on those existing business 
lines or countries with good operations and margin prospects, 
where we have a leading market position or entering new 
exciting growth areas, be that geography or services. 
In 2015, we announced five acquisitions in line with  
this strategy. 
In February, we acquired Adelaide Inspection Services Pty Ltd,  
a non-destructive testing business focused on the power 
generation market.
In September, we acquired Dansk Institut for Certificering  
A/S (‘DIC’), a quality assurance and certification company in 
Denmark. As a leading Danish certification body, DIC enables 
us to expand our Business Assurance capabilities in the  
growing Nordic region.
In November, we completed the purchase of Professional 
Service Industries, Inc. (‘PSI’), for a total cash consideration of 
$330 million. PSI is a leading US-based provider of testing and 
assurance services to commercial and civil construction markets, 
with a broad service offering including building materials 
testing; geotechnical services; and property and environmental 
assurance. The acquisition will build on the strong growth track 
record in our Building business and on the successful acquisition 
of Architectural Testing Inc. two years ago. 
In October we acquired MT Group LLC and Materials Testing 
Lab, Inc., (together ‘MT’), a leading provider of materials testing 
services for the building industry in the New York metro area.
The acquisitions of PSI and MT position us as a leading full 
service ‘one stop shop’ for our clients in the rapidly-growing  
US Building and Construction markets, bringing complementary 
services to our portfolio of Testing and Assurance services 
during the construction phase and deepening our footprint  
in the USA providing access to new markets and customers. 
In December, we announced our intention to acquire Food 
International Trust (‘FIT-Italia‘), an Italian company specialising  
in the provision of assurance services to the retail and 
agricultural sectors, which completed in January 2016.
The fourth priority is to maintain an efficient balance sheet 
that gives us the flexibility to invest in growth with leverage  
of net debt to EBITDA of 1.5 to 2 times. At the end of 2015, 
following completion of the PSI transaction, net debt to EBITDA 
stood at 1.7 times on a pro forma basis. STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 20
Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
OUTLOOK
The structural growth outlook for our industry is truly exciting. 
I believe that the ATIC Quality Assurance industry is a global 
GDP plus organic growth industry in the medium to long term, 
with many exciting opportunities.
In our Products-related businesses, the growth prospects are 
GDP-agnostic, driven by the need for companies to constantly 
innovate, raise quality standards, build brands, protect their 
reputations, meet regulatory standards and seek independent 
advice. This expanding investment in quality and innovation by 
our customers to build a brand franchise and gain market share 
will enable our Products business to benefit from faster than 
global GDP growth. 
The Trade business is linked to GDP growth. We will benefit 
from the expanded global trade and the development of 
regional trade in Asia, the Indian Ocean, Africa, the 
Mediterranean and the Americas. On this basis, we expect the 
growth profile to track global and regional trade at a broadly 
similar rate to GDP.
The Resources business is more cyclical and will remain 
challenging in the short term. From time to time we will cycle 
through phases where low resource prices mean our customers’ 
cash flow is restricted and, in such periods, we know that 
investment will be cut back. However, investment in exploration 
and production of oil, gas and minerals will increase over time 
to support the demands of a growing global population.
We plan to deliver in the medium to long term global GDP plus 
organic revenue growth, margin accretion from growth and 
productivity, strong cash conversion of 90-100% and strong 
returns, while creating sustainable returns for our shareholders.
In 2016, we expect to deliver a solid organic growth 
performance and we plan to integrate PSI in the USA. We 
expect our margin to be broadly stable and we will remain 
disciplined on cash generation and capital allocation.
SUMMARY
Intertek has a long and proud heritage built on innovation. 
From the early days of Caleb Brett in 1885, Intertek is a 
business that has consistently innovated and evolved to meet 
the changing needs and demands of consumers, our customers 
and employees. We have grown from a UK base to serve our 
clients in over 100 countries around the globe, 24 hours per 
day, seven days a week. We have the capabilities, technology, 
facilities and passionate people providing superior assurance, 
testing, inspection and certification services. 
As I look at Intertek today, I am truly excited about our future. 
We are seeing strong growth opportunities as the focus of 
corporates and their stakeholders is not just on quality control 
but quality assurance and risk management as Boards and 
management teams seek to reduce risk in their increasingly 
complex operations and supply chains. We are well positioned 
to seize these exciting growth opportunities with our strong 
ATIC Quality Assurance Proposition delivered globally in the 
three main sectors of the economy, Products, Trade and 
Resources. We are continuing to invest organically and making 
value-enhancing acquisitions that strengthen our portfolio.
We are focused on a portfolio of businesses to generate margin 
accretive revenue growth, strong returns and cash generation. 
We are on a ‘good to great’ journey.
ANDRE LACROIX
Chief Executive Officer
