 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 14
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
The appointment of André Lacroix in May 2015 has brought 
new thinking about the market drivers for Intertek and how  
our business should evolve to meet the changing needs of  
our stakeholders. To access the significant structural growth 
opportunities opened up by this new approach to the 
assurance, testing, inspection and certification market, André 
and the executive team have, with the support of the Board, 
developed a Total Quality Assurance Proposition and a new 
growth strategy. André explains more about the proposition 
and strategy in his Chief Executive Officer’s statement. In 
implementing this strategy, we will retain our capital discipline 
and operate with a renewed focus on margin accretive revenue 
growth, strong returns and cash generation. We plan that this 
will deliver positive outcomes for our customers, our people 
and our shareholders.
2015 PERFORMANCE
Our performance benefited from good growth in our Products 
and Trade businesses, while trading conditions remained 
challenging in the Resources businesses. In 2015, the Group 
delivered revenue of £2,166m, an increase of 3.5% over the 
prior year. Organic revenue growth at constant exchange rates 
was 1.6%. Adjusted operating profit rose to £343m, up 5.9%, 
and adjusted operating margin was 15.9% compared to 15.5% 
in 2014. 
The Industry Services business continued to face challenges in 
the energy infrastructure sector of oil and gas. Following a 
review of our business a non-cash impairment charge of 
£577.3m has been recorded in the year. 
The underlying performance of the business was solid with 
adjusted diluted earnings per share of 140.7p, up 6.5%.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy. We will seek  
to increase the dividend each year in a sustainable way and 
maintain a minimum dividend cover of 2.5 times earnings.  
On 13 October 2015, we paid an interim dividend of 17.0p  
per share (2014: 16.0p). At the Annual General Meeting, the 
Board will propose a final dividend of 35.3p per share, which 
will make a full year dividend of 52.3p per share (2014: 49.1p), 
an increase of 6.5%.
This final dividend will be paid on 3 June 2016 for those 
shareholders on the register on 20 May 2016.
CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENT
In 2015, the Group continued to generate strong cash flow, 
with adjusted cash flow from operations of £466m, an increase 
of 15% on the prior year. Adjusted cash conversion was 136% 
compared to 125% in 2014.
The Group invested £112m in new laboratories and equipment 
in the year which represents 5.2% of total revenue (2014: 
£110m, 5.2%). The capital investment programme ensures  
we continually position Intertek to capture future growth. 
Net debt at the year end was £775m, an increase of 22%  
on the prior year, largely reflecting the net spend of £231m  
on acquisitions.
ACQUISITIONS
In line with our priorities of strengthening our global and local 
businesses, Intertek announced the acquisitions of five new 
companies in 2015, with four completing during the year. 
This has been an important year for the 
quality assurance market and for 
Intertek as highlighted by the number 
of news reports around the world 
frequently focusing on questions about 
quality. As a global business operating 
with more than 41,000 people in over 
100 countries in three main sectors of 
the economy – Products, Trade and 
Resources – Intertek has continued to 
help our customers meet the 
challenges they face by providing 
independent, innovative and bespoke 
quality assurance solutions.
 ”Never has there been so much  
focus on quality assurance from 
consumers, regulators, media, 
companies and investors.”
SIR DAVID REID
Chairman 15 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
André provides more detail on acquisitions in his statement. 
The most significant was the acquisition of Professional  
Service Industries, Inc., a leading US-based provider of  
testing and assurance services to the commercial and civil 
construction markets.
With our strong financial position we are well-placed to 
continue to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities and to 
make smaller, bolt-on acquisitions that bring complementary 
services to our portfolio and have the potential to increase 
shareholder value.
THE BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
With highly engaged people, having the right person at the 
very top of the organisation to lead the business in a world that 
is changing quickly is critical. Appointed on 16 May 2015, our 
new Chief Executive Officer, André Lacroix, and the 
experienced leadership team have worked with the Board 
during the year to develop a differentiated strategy for growth 
that meets the needs and demands of our stakeholders.
At the May 2015 Annual General Meeting, after serving as 
Chief Executive Officer for ten years, Wolfhart Hauser retired. 
Christopher Knight, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and Non-Executive Director, also retired after serving for nine 
years on the Board.
We welcomed Gill Rider to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 
2015. Gill adds valuable experience to the Board from her 
career in both Executive and Non-Executive roles.
In other changes to the Committees, Mark Williams was 
appointed to the Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
with effect from 15 May 2015, Alan Brown moved from the 
Remuneration Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee on 
1 July 2015 and Dame Louise Makin joined the Nomination 
Committee on 1 December 2015.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our ongoing and continuing dialogue with our shareholders 
has been a key focus during the year. As a Board, we have been 
cognisant of the voting results at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting. We took note of the shareholder pushback for the 
advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration report at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting and responded accordingly. As a 
result, there has been significant engagement with our 
shareholders and other stakeholders on remuneration matters 
and all feedback has been reviewed and taken into 
consideration. In accordance with regulations and good 
corporate governance and following further shareholder 
engagement, our Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be 
presented for approval by shareholders at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting. Details are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 63 to 77.
GOVERNANCE
As Chairman, I am committed to seeing Intertek operating with 
the highest standards of corporate governance. 
An independent external evaluation was undertaken of the 
Board during the year. I am pleased that the results were 
positive and confirmed that the Board and the way it operates 
are effective. More information on this review is outlined on 
pages 60 and 61 of the Corporate Governance Report.
While all Board appointments are made on merit, we are strong 
believers in the importance of diversity. We have strived for 
gender diversity among our membership and female Board 
members currently comprise 30% of the Board. Our Diversity 
Policy can be found on our website.
SUSTAINABILITY 
Sustainable business practices are integral to Intertek. We assist 
many of the world’s leading corporations and best-known 
brands in improving the social, ethical and environmental 
impact of their products, processes and supply chains ensuring 
quality and safety and thereby protecting their brands.
In our own operations, we continue to improve our processes 
to monitor our impact on climate change and have controls in 
place to minimise the Group’s effect on the environment 
through, for example, utilising renewable sources of energy, 
reducing energy consumption and implementing ‘green’  
waste management practices. 
The health and safety of our people is paramount and we  
have policies in place to ensure staff welfare remains of utmost 
importance. In 2015, we implemented an online reporting  
tool for information relating to health and safety incidents with 
these insights shared across the Group to help understand  
and reduce accident rates.
INTEGRITY AND OUR PEOPLE 
The integrity and ethical conduct of our people is at the core  
of everything we do and critical to the success of Intertek. We 
continually review our performance against our robust ethical 
policies and control procedures. These policies and procedures 
help us ensure that good business ethics are embedded across 
the Group. 
The Board recognises that delivering our new strategy for 
growth depends on many factors but people are our greatest 
asset. We are confident and know that our employees have the 
innovative talent and knowledge to build on our traditions to 
realise the full potential of our business. Our continuing success 
relies upon the commitment, energy, expertise and hard work 
of our teams around the globe and on behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued 
dedication and diligence. 
LOOKING AHEAD 
We look to the future with confidence. We have articulated  
a clear growth strategy to deliver quality assurance solutions  
in rapidly changing markets with strong structural growth 
drivers. Despite current market challenges in some parts of  
our Resources business, we believe the Group can continue  
to deliver revenue growth, improved margins, strong cash 
generation and attractive returns. Supported by the 
investments we are making, I am convinced Intertek  
will build on its successful heritage to continue to deliver  
long-term value for our shareholders. 
SIR DAVID REID
Chairman 
