 iomart Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Introduction
I am pleased once more to report on another excellent year for iomart. We have increased our revenues and profits both organically 
and through acquisition as we continue to deliver a widening range of cloud solutions.
Our revenues in the year were £65.8m, an increase of 18% over the previous year and our adjusted EBITDA of £29.1m showed a 23% 
increase over the previous year and our profit before tax increased by 11% to £10.8m. 
The opportunity remains to continue to grow both organically and through a disciplined acquisition strategy. 
Market
The market continues to grow and evolve. The number of companies offering cloud services also continues to grow alongside an ever 
faster consolidation of companies to achieve scale and presence.
Potential cloud customers are confronted by an ever more complex set of decisions in terms of cost, value, effectiveness, complexity, 
security and compliance. In response, an ecosystem of managed services providers and large infrastructure providers is growing to 
serve these customers. Because the cloud has disrupted the traditional IT value chain, cloud service providers (CSPs) are now forming 
key alliances allowing them to excel at the delivery of one or more service whether it be the delivery of infrastructure as a service (IaaS), 
platform as a service (PaaS) or software as a service (SaaS). 
Microsoft, Amazon (AWS) and Google (Public Cloud Providers) all have their own long term strategies to capture market share and all 
three of them have stated that we are at the very beginning of a long journey to full cloud adoption. All of these companies will require 
channel partners to go to market.
iomart is well placed to strengthen its position around that very complexity as customers look to find the best way forward for their 
own needs, whether that be private infrastructure in a datacentre of their choice,  Public Cloud infrastructure or more likely a mixture 
of the two combined with legacy on-premise infrastructure. The effective management of all these is the opportunity for iomart which 
we would collectively term the Hybrid Cloud.
iomart is investing in the relationships and skills to help customers make an informed choice across the cloud spectrum and to help 
them manage these environments moving forward.
Acquisitions
We again augmented our organic growth through the acquisition of ServerSpace Limited (“ServerSpace”) in December 2014. This has 
performed as expected over the period and integration is well underway.
We have just announced the acquisition of Systems Up Limited (“SystemsUp”) on 5 June 2015. SystemsUp has gained a reputation in 
the cloud market for expertise across a wide range of cloud products and services, with an emphasis on Public Cloud consultancy. 
We believe the skills and experience we have acquired will accelerate our progress in becoming credible suppliers of Hybrid Cloud 
to ensure we can make the ‘best fit’ recommendation for our customers along with the subsequent deployment and management of 
their ever more complex cloud environments.
We continue to look for businesses that fit our acquisition criteria with a view to making further acquisitions in the coming year.
Operational Review
Whilst all of our activities involve the provision of services from common infrastructure we are organised into two operating segments.
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer's Report
14 iomart Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Hosting
Our Hosting segment continued to perform well over the year, delivering an overall revenue growth rate of 23% and a satisfactory 
organic growth rate of 9% whilst increasing adjusted EBITDA margins from 48.6% to 50.0%.
We provide a wide range of managed hosting services to both SMEs and corporate customers.  All our solutions are delivered from 
our network of datacentres.
The more complex managed hosting solutions are delivered by iomart Hosting and customers typically pay for these services on a 
monthly basis on contracts ranging between one and three years in length. These solutions are provided to a wide range of customers, 
all of whom are at various stages of development and over the year we have seen some casualties amongst our base as customers 
experience funding difficulties, drop out of markets or become acquired and, as a result, are integrated elsewhere. All of which has 
resulted in some additional customer churn and some pricing pressure at contract renewal which, in turn, has adversely impacted our 
organic growth in the segment though we are still pleased with the level of growth achieved over the year. This area of our activity is 
the one which has the greatest opportunity arising out the Hybrid Cloud. However, the choice of direction to an adopter of Cloud is 
much more complex than before and thus we will require to become Hybrid Cloud Experts, especially in the consultation process an 
organisation will go through before making a final choice. We believe the acquisition of SystemsUp will provide us with a strong platform 
from which to attack the Hybrid Cloud opportunity.
We address the dedicated physical server market, or bare metal as it is becoming known, through our RapidSwitch and Redstation 
operations largely through online marketing. Melbourne delivers complex managed hosting solutions and provides us with a strong 
presence in the North West of England with a particular emphasis on the creative sector. Backup Technology provides enterprise class 
cloud backup and business continuity services. iomart Cloud Services provides a range of Cloud products, mainly through channel 
partners and this unit also provides Cloud services in the USA, following on from our investment in cloud infrastructure and backup 
assets in that region during the year. All these business units use common infrastructure and processes but there are different 
dynamics in each customer base.
Revenues in this segment have grown by 23% to £55.0m (2014: £44.7m) partly as a result of the continued organic growth and as a 
result of acquisitions.
Easyspace
The Easyspace segment has performed as expected over the year. 
Our activities within this segment provide a range of products to the micro and SME markets including domain names, shared, 
dedicated and virtual servers and email services.
As anticipated, revenues of £10.8m (2014: £11.0m) have remained around the same level as in the previous year, and with the benefit 
of delivering strong levels of cash for the Group.
Current trading and outlook
Trading since the year end remains encouraging and in line with our expectations.
We are working hard to ensure we remain at the leading edge in terms of the skill sets and experience to provide an ever more complex 
set of services to our customers and are confident of our abilities to do so, reinforced by the acquisition of SystemsUp in recent days.
We are well positioned for further significant growth.
I look forward, once again, with confidence to the year ahead.
Angus MacSween
Chief Executive Officer
8 June 2015
Strategic Report. Chief Executive Officer's Report
15
