 iomart Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Chairman's Statement
13
Once again it is extremely pleasing to report on another very good year for your Group. We continue to make excellent 
progress as we execute on our combined strategy of growing our business both organically and by acquisition. Our reputation 
as one of the UK’s leading cloud computing companies continues to develop.
We have again enjoyed a substantial increase in profitability over the year, driven by both organic and acquisitive growth. This 
year we have only made the one acquisition during the year, ServerSpace, in December 2014, and we have also benefited from 
a full year contribution of both Redstation and Backup Technology which were acquired last year.
After the year end we completed the acquisition of Systems Up Limited, a consultancy company with a particular focus on 
Public Cloud. 
All of this progress is a result of a great deal of hard work by our executives and staff and I thank them all on behalf of the Board 
and the shareholders for their efforts over the year.
The Group has pursued a progressive dividend policy for a number of years now. As a consequence of our continued strong 
performance we intend to adopt a dividend policy aimed at improving shareholder returns whilst maintaining a strong capital 
position for future acquisitions. Accordingly, our intention will be, over time, to increase the dividend pay-out to 25% of adjusted 
diluted earnings per share. This year the Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 2.5p per share on 1 September 2015 to 
shareholders on the register on 14 August 2015, representing an increase of 43% over the dividend last year and equivalent 
to a pay-out ratio of 19.8% of adjusted diluted earnings per share. We continue to offer shareholders the option to participate 
in a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) as an alternative to receiving cash. Details of the DRIP scheme will be distributed with 
the annual accounts in due course. 
We have started the 2015 financial year in a strong position and I look forward to another exciting year of growth with 
considerable confidence.
Ian Ritchie
Chairman
8 June 2015
 
Strategic Report
