 The last year has seen another period of strong 
progress at ITV with record financial performance 
and further evolution in the shape of the business. 
Chairman’s Statement
This represents the sixth successive 
year of growth and the turnaround 
days of 2010 are now long behind us. 
As a result ITV is a very different 
business today, from that which this 
team inherited. 
The success of ITV depends on driving 
ahead creatively, commercially and 
financially, while at the same time 
combining these strands successfully in 
the context of very strong management 
leadership. Creative potential sits at 
the core of our business, and measured 
in terms of talented people and new 
programme generation, ITV is stronger 
than it has ever been. Commercially 
the year has seen further progress 
in rebalancing the business towards 
content and multi-platform 
broadcasting. Financially we have a 
business generating strong cash flows 
and high return on capital. 
When we started on the original 
transformation programme it was 
commonplace to hear television referred 
to as a no-growth business. In fact, 
many saw our model as in decline. 
Instead we have grown strongly every 
year and emphatically believe our 
combination of multi-platform 
broadcasting and content provides 
a platform for continued growth.
That is not to say that the changing 
broadcast landscape is entirely benign. 
We can all see that changing viewing 
habits, especially amongst young people 
will affect conventional linear television. 
The arrival of new global video on 
demand broadcasters is affecting 
viewing habits and provides new 
competition for top-end drama. 
And new online advertising models 
provide our commercial customers 
with different routes to market.
These challenges are also opportunities 
for ITV. Great content is in demand 
globally. As new viewing opportunities 
emerge so the thirst for really good 
programmes increases. Under its 
international umbrella ITV has an 
extraordinarily diverse but high talent 
set of content businesses. In the UK our 
integrated producer broadcaster model 
is stronger than ever with increasing 
in-house output.
Our audience strength in the UK and 
close working relationships with 
advertisers provides a uniquely powerful 
marketing platform. Far from replacing 
television, the online advertising market 
has reinforced our unique ability to 
provide advertisers with rapid access 
to very large audiences with persuasive 
and emotional branding messages. The 
strength of ITV’s offering has enabled 
it to grow its share of broadcast 
advertising revenues over the last 
five years.
ITV is a remarkable 
place to work and 
employs remarkable 
people. It is thanks to 
their hard work that 
we have produced 
these results.”
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12
Strategic Report  Strategy and Operations One of the hallmarks of our approach 
has been disciplined control of costs and 
spending. As a result, over 90% of our 
operating profit is converted into cash 
and we have been able to both invest 
in acquisitions and grow progressively 
our dividend. Our approach is to invest 
carefully in selected new growth 
opportunities while at the same 
time making returns to shareholders. 
Within this context we continue to 
look at potential acquisitions that could 
further enhance our ability to execute 
our strategy.
Against this context we maintain a 
conservative balance sheet. That is 
not just a consequence of strong 
performance but a Board policy – to 
maintain low financial risk and to take 
where appropriate bold creative and 
operating decisions.
Our Board structure and workings 
reflect our commitment to a creative, 
commercial and financial management 
philosophy. The ‘team sheet’ includes 
strands of experience and knowledge 
in all three areas. We have a relatively 
small Board, closely engaged with the 
business, supporting but also challenging 
the executive. We believe that the 
strength of a Board comes from its 
understanding of what really goes on in 
the business and a spirit of openness and 
transparency around the Board table.
Dividend
Ordinary dividend
6.0p
Special dividend
10.0p
We are very selective about Board 
appointments. Each addition needs to 
add to our skill base and diversity, but 
also relate to the business. Against this 
context I am delighted to welcome 
Anna Manz to our Board. She will bring 
new insight from the consumer world 
and valuable experience.
I believe that the well spring of our 
success is our people and the culture 
that binds them together. ITV is a 
remarkable place to work and employs 
remarkable people. It is thanks to their 
hard work that we have produced 
these results.
Lastly, after the AGM I pass the baton 
on to a talented and accomplished new 
Chairman. After nearly six and a half 
years in what has been a carefully 
planned succession I want to thank 
all our shareholders and colleagues 
for their commitment. 
Being part of ITV during this exciting 
period has been a great privilege.
Archie Norman
Chairman
Pictured left to right: The Good Witch was aired in 
the US on the Hallmark channel in February 2015; 
behind the scenes on The Frankenstein Chronicles, 
an ITV Encore commission.
Strategic Report
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
 Chairman’s Statement
