 ITV at a Glance
ITV, as an integrated producer broadcaster, creates,  
owns and distributes high-quality content on  
multiple platforms. 
Broadcast  
& Online
We operate the largest commercial family of channels in the UK 
and deliver our content through traditional television broadcasting 
as well as on demand via the ITV Hub.
ITV broadcasts a wide variety of content on its family of free-to-air channels. We invest 
over £1 billion annually in programming for our channels which is primarily funded by 
television advertising revenue. ITV has the largest share of the UK television advertising 
market, and we estimate this share to be 46.1% in 2015 (2014: 45.9%).
The family of channels attracted a total share of viewing (SOV) of 21.2% in 2015 
(2014: 22.0%), the largest audience of any UK commercial broadcaster.
Our main channel is the largest commercial channel in the UK, delivering 98% of all 
commercial audiences over five million. 
Our free-to-air digital channels provide more targeted demographics for advertisers 
such as 16-34’s, ABC1 Men and Housewives with Children, and consist of ITV2 and 
ITV3, the two largest digital channels in the UK, and ITV4, CITV and ITVBe. 
We also have high definition versions of our digital channels available on pay 
platforms along with ITV Encore, our pay only channel available exclusively on Sky. 
In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers its content across multiple platforms. 
This is either through the newly launched ITV Hub, now available on over 27 platforms 
including ITV’s website (itv.com) and pay providers such as Virgin and Sky, or through 
direct content deals with services such as Amazon, Apple iTunes and Netflix. 
46.1%
largest share of  
the UK TV ad market 
21.2% 
share of viewing  
for the ITV Family  
in 2015
27
platforms that  
carry our content
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6
Strategic Report  Overview We have built significant scale in key creative markets around the 
world, creating and producing programmes and formats that return 
and travel, namely drama, entertainment and factual entertainment.
ITV Studios creates and produces content in the UK and internationally, while 
our distribution business, Global Entertainment, sells finished programmes 
and formats worldwide.
ITV Studios UK
ITV Studios UK is the largest commercial producer in the UK. We produce 
programming across a diverse range of genres such as drama, entertainment and 
factual for ITV’s own channels, as well as for other UK broadcasters such as the BBC, 
Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky. 
ITV America
ITV America is the largest unscripted independent producer of content in the US. 
We have acquired a number of unscripted and reality producers and have grown 
our presence in scripted content, using our strong cash flows to produce high profile 
dramas with the potential to travel and build international appeal.
ITV Studios Rest of World
ITV Studios also operates in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Australia and the 
Nordics, producing content for local broadcasters in these regions. This content 
is either created locally or are formats that have been created elsewhere by ITV, 
primarily the UK. 
Global Entertainment
Global Entertainment, ITV’s distribution business, owns the rights of ITV programmes 
and formats and acquires third-party content and distributes this to other 
broadcasters and platforms internationally. Within this business we also finance 
productions both on and off-ITV to acquire global distribution rights.
ITV Studios
7,000+ 
hours of original 
content produced  
and delivered in 2015
58
labels 
in 10
different countries 
supplying over 
90 
channels
ITV total revenue
 Broadcast & Online £2,146m
 ITV Studios £1,237m
ITV adjusted EBITA 
 Broadcast & Online £659m
 ITV Studios £206m
Pictured left to right: Britain’s Got 
Talent returned for a ninth series in 
2015 with a 43% share of viewing 
(2014: 43%); Loose Women has 
been broadcast as part of the ITV 
daytime schedule for 16 years and 
continues to drive good audiences.
Strategic Report
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
 ITV at a Glance
