  Highlights of 2002
* Acquisition of 3 ADDITIONAL STORES
at Ealing, Tonbridge and Worthing,
resulting in
* TRADING SPACE INCREASED BY
40% for PART YEAR
leading to
* TURNOVER INCREASE of 13.5%
giving rise to
* DIVIDEND GROWTH IN EXCESS OF 6.0%
2 2002 2001 2000
Turnover 13.5% £88.64m £78.05m £75.06m
Operating profit (30.7%) £2.68m £3.87m £3.55m
Dividends per share 6.1% 6.10p 5.75p 5.30p
3 Chairman's Statement
Financial review
This year I have to report that the Group’s operating profit from continuing operations, excluding acquisitions,
fell by 22.2% from £3.87m to £3.01m.  Last year’s result included one additional week’s trading and, if this is
eliminated, then the reduction in operating profit becomes 19.0%.
Trading from the three department stores acquired this year from Bentalls produced a small but anticipated loss
of £329,000.  The Group did not benefit from the important Christmas 2001 trading from these stores, having
acquired them in 2002.
The Group’s profit on ordinary activities before taxation and after the inclusion of the losses of the three
additional stores amounted to £2.53m (2001 53 weeks £3.83m).
Turnover from the Group’s existing nine stores amounted to £77.38m (2001 £78.05m), a decline of less than
1%.  However, if the 53
rd
 week in 2001 is eliminated, then sales increased by 1%.
Review of activities
At the half year I reported that trading over the 2001 Christmas period had been buoyant but was more
subdued in February, March and April.  Despite some optimism at that stage, trade then stagnated and sales in
the Summer and Autumn were flat with consumer confidence lowered by the unsettled economic outlook.  Also
sales of clothing were affected adversely by poor early Summer weather and an unseasonably warm Autumn. 
Trading was further hampered by two major capital projects in the year.  In the first half, the fifth floor restaurant,
the main entrances and display windows in the Bournemouth store were refurbished.  In the second half, the
cosmetics and accessories departments in Yeovil were re-fitted, menswear was moved to the first floor and
young fashion departments introduced to the ground floor.  This project, which lasted for some three months,
was completed shortly after the financial year end.  Both projects will provide for future progress.
In Walton-on-Thames, problems with the external cladding of the store resulted in the erection of scaffolding
around much of the site. Talks are still taking place with our landlord to improve and enlarge this store and,
hopefully, to extend the lease.  If these negotiations are successful, work on the building will start later this year
but, until then, we continue to trade in a poor environment.  Despite this, and to the credit of the management
and staff in Walton, the store has performed strongly.
During the year, the Group acquired three stores from Bentalls. Of these, Worthing joined the Group on 11
March 2002, Ealing on 18 March 2002 and Tonbridge on 16 September 2002.  By the year end, integration of
these businesses was largely complete, although, without the benefit of Christmas 2001 trading and with some
restructuring costs, they incurred a trading loss. Nevertheless, I am confident that in this full year they will prove
to be useful contributors to Group profits.
4 Chairman's Statement Continued
Product photograph
In September, the chief executive instigated a major expense review with particular emphasis on the head
office function.
Following the review, the buying department has been restructured and savings made in a number of other
areas of the business.  Benefits from the exercise will become evident in the current financial year.
Shareholding
At the last two annual general meetings, we proposed the renewal of powers to buy in and cancel shares when
purchases could be made at prices which represent a discount to net asset value and where earnings per
share would be enhanced.  However, on each occasion, Lawdene Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Hoopers Limited the department store group, opposed the move.  Lawdene was the owner of 24.38% of
Beale’s share capital on
24 January 2003.  Since the appropriate resolutions to adopt these powers would require a 75% majority, and
in the knowledge that this was unlikely to be obtained, they were withdrawn from both meetings.
Your Board still believes the adoption of these powers would be in the best interests of shareholders, but with
the continued opposition of Lawdene there seems no point in once more proposing them.
The Board
Michael Mitchell retired as chief executive on 14 June 2002.  I thank him for his outstanding contribution to the
business and wish him a long and happy retirement.
I welcome Allan Allkins as the Group’s new chief executive and hope that he will find his career with the Group
satisfying and rewarding.
Staff
The successful acquisition of the three Bentalls stores was the largest in our history.  The integration of the
additional stores would not have been possible without the loyalty, enthusiasm and hard work of everyone
concerned.  I am very grateful to all members of staff for the cheerful way in which they have faced the
challenges of tough trading conditions.
7 Chairman's Statement Continued
Product photograph
Outlook
Although refurbishment projects tend to have adverse short term profit implications, they are essential if we are
to meet our customers’ expectations and compete successfully in today’s challenging retail conditions. 
Consequently, our strategy will continue with emphasis in the current financial year on the refurbishment of the
lower ground floor in Bournemouth and the renovation of the Bedford store.  Also, if a suitable agreement with
our landlord can be reached, work will start on the extension and refitting of the Walton store.
In addition, we are looking ever closer at the range of merchandise that we offer, with more emphasis on
innovation and a faster response to changing customer requirements.
Like for like sales in November and December did not reach last year’s level.  However, business improved in
the first part of January, which gives hope for cautious optimism.  Also, the acquisitions are settling down well
and are expected to make a significant contribution to Group profits in the current year.
James Sexton
Chairman
8 Chief Executive’s Review
Product photograph
I am delighted to have taken over from Michael Mitchell and am grateful for the warm welcome that I have
received.
Trading performance
In common with other department store groups, we experienced difficult trading conditions throughout the year,
particularly in apparel, which was affected by unseasonal weather during much of the summer and autumn. 
Increased costs, particularly those associated with the integration of acquisitions, concurrent with little or no
price inflation at the till, has meant continuing pressure on margins.  On a more positive note, we are confident
of good progress in our recent acquisitions during the current trading year.
Management structure
We have restructured the senior management team, particularly in buying, which now has three directors of
buying reporting to the merchandise director.  We believe this will add more focus and creativity to our buying
strategy and to our assortment selection.  Certain functions have been decentralised from head office, with
responsibilities passing to store directors. We have carried out an expense review in head office, making solid
savings across the majority of departments.
Trading strategy
The corporate plan for the year outlines a revised trading policy, based on value, assortment and customer
service, supported by strategies for buying, selling, finance/IT, marketing and human resources.  In addition,
each store has a comprehensive business plan which details store profiling and range planning for all
departments.  This will ensure that each of our stores will have an individual assortment which best suits its own
profile.  We believe that our stores should be entertaining, interesting and innovative, and we shall achieve this
by accentuating the difference both in our assortment portfolio, our customer service and the ambience created
in each store.  This will be supported by a revised marketing strategy.  We shall also concentrate on improved
visual merchandising and customer service standards.
During the year, we shall concentrate on improving our stock management through sourcing closer to the
season, tighter and more focused buying and the improvement of margins.  The continuing roll out of our stock
management systems will further enhance our procedures, thus improving profitability.
10
