 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
04
Revenue £m 
2015 135.8
174.8
192.3
172.3
155.5
2014
2013
2012
2011
Chairman’s
statement
DIVIDEND  
PER SHARE
7.4p
“The Group’s results demonstrate 
the resilience of its business model to 
challenging trading circumstances.”
Marco Sodi Chairman ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
05
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Group	performance
ITE	Group	plc	has	reported	revenues	of	
£136	million	and	headline	profits	before	
tax	of	£47	million.	The	two	major	themes	
running	through	this	year	have	been	
the	impact	of	the	fall	in	the	oil	price	on	
the	oil	dependant	economies	where	
we	operate,	and	the	Group’s	ongoing	
diversification	of	its	business.	The	
lower	oil	price	has	caused	a	significant	
slowdown	in	economic	activity	in	some	
of	the	key	countries	in	which	we	operate	
and	has	also	led	to	a	devaluation	of	their	
currencies	against	Sterling.	At	the	same	
time,	the	Group	has	continued	to	diversify	
both	organically	and	through	acquisition	
into	other	geographies.	During	2015,	
three	substantial	acquisitions	have	been	
completed	and,	as	a	result,	the	Group	has	
stronger	businesses	in	Asia	and	Turkey	
and	has	established	a	first	time	presence	
in	Africa,	a	new	geography	for	ITE.	These	
proactive	changes	have	given	the	Group	
a	better	geographic	balance	between	
its	historic	Russian-CIS	businesses,	and	
other	leading	emerging	markets.	Looking	
forward,	Russia	now	accounts	for	circa	
40%	of	ITE’s	business	(2014:	51%).
The	Group	has	made	significant	progress	
during	the	year	in	developing	its	business	
by	adding	to	its	portfolio	of	market-
leading	events	in	target	industry	sectors.	
Over	the	course	of	the	year	the	Transport	
&	Logistics	portfolio	has	been	enhanced	
by	the	additions	of	Eurasia	Rail	in	Turkey	
and	the	international	Breakbulk	series	
of	events.	In	the	Oil	&	Gas	portfolio	the	
Group	acquired	Africa	Oil	Week	which	
serves	the	upstream	industry	and	is	the	
leading	event	for	exploration	of	future	oil	
and	gas	reserves	in	Africa.	Post-year	end	
the	Group	has	announced	the	exercise	
of	its	call	option	in	its	Indian	associate,	
ABEC,	taking	its	holding	to	60%,	making	
ITE	the	leading	private	organiser	in	the	
Indian	exhibition	industry	as	well	as	
enhancing	its	Construction	portfolio.	
Overall,	these	results	demonstrate	the	
resilience	of	the	Group’s	business	model	
to	challenging	trading	circumstances	
in	some	of	its	most	important	
geographies	and	its	continued	focus	
on	the	execution	of	its	strategy.
In	this	stronger	biennial	year,	headline	
diluted	earnings	per	share	was	15.3p	
(2014:	20.2p).	Reported	pre-tax	profit	
was	£31.5	million	(2014:	£41.5	million)	
and	fully	diluted	earnings	per	share	was	
10.4p	(2014:	13.8p).	The	Group	finished	
the	year	with	net	debt	of	£52	million	
(2014:	£15	million),	after	investing	£56	
million	on	acquisitions	during	the	year.
Board	and	management
There	were	no	changes	to	the	Board	
during	the	financial	year.	However,	
on 14	October	2015,	Neil	Jones,	our	
Chief	Financial	Officer	for	the	last	seven	
years,	announced	that	he	will	be	leaving	
the	Group.	Neil	will	remain	at	ITE	until	
31	January	2016	in	order	to	close	the	
current	financial	year	end,	and	to	ensure	
a	smooth	handover.	The	Board	has	
commenced	a	search	for	his	successor	
and	a	further	announcement	in	relation	
to	a	new	Chief	Financial	Officer	will	be	
made	in	due	course.	On	behalf	of	the	
Board,	I	would	like	to	thank	Neil	for	his	
contribution	over	the	last	few	years;	his	
knowledge,	drive	and	positive	attitude	
have	made	him	an	excellent	member	of	
the	executive	management	team	and	we	
wish	him	well	in	his	future	endeavours.
ITE	is	a	people	business	and	its	success	is	
based	upon	the	hard	work	and	loyalty	of	
its	staff	worldwide.	The	Group	has	over	
1,000	employees	conducting	its	business	
in	32	offices	in	20	different	countries.	
We	have	an	increasingly	diverse	mix	of	
cultures	with	an	additional	250	staff	in	
Asia	employed	via	associate	business	
structures.	Almost	50%	of	our	staff	have	
been	employees	of	ITE	for	more	than	five	
years	and	63%	are	participants	in	one	of	
our	equity	schemes.	As	Chairman	and	on	
behalf	of	the	Board,	I	would	like	to	thank	
and	acknowledge	the	contribution	of	all	
of	ITE’s	employees	to	this	year’s	result	
and	especially	those	staff	in	Ukraine	
and	Russia	who	have	worked	extremely	
hard	under	difficult	circumstances.	
ITE’s	Board	recognises	that	good	
corporate	governance	is	in	the	long-
term	interests	of	the	Group	and	we	
are	conscious	of	our	responsibilities	
for	setting	values	that	underpin	the	
Group	culture.	As	Chairman,	I	am	
mindful	of	my	personal	responsibility	
for	leading	the	Board	and	ensuring	it	
operates	diligently	and	effectively.	
Dividend
This	year	the	interim	dividend	was	held	
at	2.5p	and	the	proposed	final	dividend	
remains	at	4.9p,	making	a	full	dividend	for	
the	year	of	7.4p	(2014:	7.4p).	This reflects	
the	Board’s	confidence	in	the	quality	
and	potential	of	the	business.	The	final	
dividend	is	proposed	for	payment	
on	8	February	2016	to	shareholders	
on	the	register	on	8	January	2016.
Outlook
Trading	conditions	in	Russia	and	more	
recently	the	Central	Asian	states,	continue	
to	be	challenging.	Whilst	the	Group	has	
seen	a	stabilisation	in	Russian	trading	
conditions,	the	impact	of	lower	oil	prices	
and	domestic	currency	weakness	is	
reflected	in	our	forward	bookings.	As	
anticipated,	the	H1	bookings	for	2016	
will	be	more	impacted	than	H2,	as	last	
year’s	comparatives	for	H1	only	partially	
reflect	the	current	trading	conditions	
in	Russia	and	Central	Asia.	The	Group’s	
other	regions,	which	now	account	for	
over	40%	of	ITE’s	business,	are	trading	
well.	At	27	November	2015,	Group	
revenues	already	booked	for	FY2016	
were	£77	million	representing	circa	57%	
of	market	expectations	for	the	full	year.	
On	a	like-for-like	basis	these	revenues	
are	circa	10%	behind	this	time	last	year.	
Although	ITE’s	ongoing	geographical	
diversification	is	reducing	its	dependency	
on	Russia,	the	Group’s	results	remain	
sensitive	to	its	economic	climate	and	
to	the	oil	price.	However,	its	strong	
market	positions	mean	the	Group	is	
well positioned	to	benefit	from	any	future	
improvement	in	the	Russian	economy.	
Elsewhere,	ITE	has	good	growth	prospects	
in	its	other	markets	and	its	portfolio	of	
leading	events	continues	to	perform	well.	
Management	will	continue	to	monitor	
and	review	the	Group’s	cost	base	to	
ensure	that	it	has	the	most	efficient	
structure	and	will	further	diversify	the	
Group’s	business	as	well	as	strengthen	
its	industry	verticals.	The	Group	has	a	
robust	balance	sheet,	good	operating	
cash	flow	and	the	Board	has	confidence	
in	the	Group’s	future	prospects.	
Marco Sodi Chairman
30	November	2015
Note
Where	used,	like-for-like	measures	are	stated	
on a constant	currency	basis	adjusted	to	exclude	
acquisitions	impacting	for	the	first	time,	event	
timing	differences	and	biennial	events.
