 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
20
Headline pre-tax proﬁt £m 
2015 47 .2
60.3
59.4
53.0
51.4
2014
2013
2012
2011
Chief Executive’s 
statement
HEADLINE  
DILUTED EPS
15.3p
“ITE has now established cornerstone 
businesses in three of the largest 
emerging markets of the future – 
China, India and Africa.”
Russell Taylor Chief Executive Officer ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
21
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Headline per-tax proﬁt bridge 
70
55
60
30
35
65
50
25
40
45
20
60.3
1.4 1.4
1.9 (6.5)
2.6 (12.5)
47 .2
£m
2014 Net
biennial
and timing
Net
‘one off’
forex
Acquisitions 
(net of 
overheads
and ﬁnancing)
FX
impact
FY15
Core 
business
2015
The	Group’s	performance	this	year
ITE’s	performance	this	year	largely	
reflects	the	difficult	trading	conditions	
in	its	main	market,	Russia,	and	the	
decline	in	the	value	of	the	Russian	Ruble	
(against	Sterling)	in	which	40%	of	the	
Group’s	revenues	are	denominated.
The	main	factors	affecting	Group	
profitability	this	year	are	summarised	
in	the	profit	bridge	below.	
The	fall	by	circa	50%	of	the	Russian	
Ruble	against	Sterling	accounted	
for	most	of	the	£6.5	million	foreign	
exchange	loss	suffered	in	the	year,	and	
a	reduction	in	core	business	through	
adverse	economic	conditions	accounted	
for	a	further	£12.5	million	of	shortfall	
against	last	year.	Offsetting	this	was	
a	positive	biennial	contribution	of	
£1.4	million,	and	the	benefit	of	newly	
acquired	businesses,	which	had	an	
incremental	effect	of	£2.6	million	in	the	
year	after	additional	financing	costs.	
The	currency	impact	and	the	core	
business	decline	have	a	common	cause;	
the	fall	in	the	oil	price	having	a	negative	
effect	on	the	oil	dependant	economies	
of Russia,	Azerbaijan	and	Kazakhstan	and	
leading	to	a	proportionate	devaluation	
of	currencies	to	protect	their	national	
finances.	The	currencies	of	Russia,	
Azerbaijan	and	Kazakhstan	are	now	
trading	at	circa	half	of	their	previous	
values	against	Sterling.	The	effect	
on	ITE’s business	in	these	countries	
was	further	aggravated	by	the	high	
proportion of	ITE’s	exhibitors	who	import	
and	distribute	overseas	goods;	for	these	
customers	the	currency	devaluation	has	
made	their	business	less	competitive.	
The	Group’s	Russian	and	Ukrainian	
businesses	were	the	most	severely	
impacted	in	the	year.	The	ongoing	
political	instability	in	Eastern	Ukraine	
and	consequent	sanctions	imposed	by	
the	West	on	Russia	was	already	dragging	
on	the	Russian	business	before	the	
sudden	fall	in	oil	prices	in	December	
2014.	Overall,	like-for-like	trading	volumes	
across	Russia	declined	by	20%	in	the	
year,	which	accounts	for	the	majority	of	
the	£12.5	million	decline	in	core	business	
highlighted	above.	The	Ukrainian	office	
had	already	suffered	a	50%	decline	
in	business	activity	last	year,	and	this	
year	reported	a	further	25%	reduction	
in	like-for-like	volumes,	as	the	first	half	
of	the	year	reported	‘catch	up’	results	
reflecting	the	political	turmoil	that	had	
already	impacted	the	second	half	of	
the	previous	financial	year.	The	Central	
Asian	business	had	traded	positively	
last year,	and	started	this	year	in	positive	
mode	with	the	early	events	showing	
good	growth,	but	by	the	end	of	the	year	
these	economies	were	also	reflecting	
the	impact	of	a	much	lower	oil	price,	
and	had	devalued	their	currencies.	
The	associate	businesses	in	India	and	
China	made	a	positive	contribution	
to	the	core	business,	with	the	50%	
owned	Sinostar	business	in	China,	
and	the	28%	owned	ABEC	business	
in	India	both	reporting	‘best	ever’	
results	(though	revenues	of	those	
businesses	are	not	consolidated).	The	
positive	contribution	of	£2.6	million	
from	newly	acquired	businesses	came	
from	the	additions	of	Eurasia	Rail,	and	
the	Breakbulk	portfolio,	both	of	which	
are	set	out	in	more	detail	below.	
Development	of	the	business
The	main	objectives	for	the	Group	this	
year	were	continuing	to	expand	and	
diversify	the	Group’s	business	and	
managing	the	effects	of	the	difficult	
economic	conditions	in	Russia.
The	Group	made	three	substantial	
acquisitions	in	the	year.	In	December	
2014	the	Group	acquired	Eurasia	Rail	
for	£7.3	million,	and	the	Breakbulk	
portfolio	of	events	for	£27	million.	In	
March	this	year,	the	Group	acquired	
50%	of	Africa	Oil	Week	for	£16	million,	
which	was	largely	funded	by	a	share	
placing	raising	approximately	£12	million.	
These	events	will	further	diversify	our	
business	away	from	its	historical	Russia-
CIS	platform	and	their	contributions	will	
be	fully	reflected	in	next	year’s	results.	
The	Breakbulk	portfolio	of	exhibitions	
and	publications	serves	the	Transport	&	
Logistics	market	for	large-scale	project	
equipment,	and	are	held	annually	
in	Houston,	Antwerp,	Shanghai,	and	
Johannesburg.	The	Shanghai,	Antwerp	
and	Johannesburg	events	ran	in	this	
financial	year.	The	Houston	event	
and	a	newly	launched	Middle	East	
event	took	place	in	October	2015	
and will	be	included	in	the	Group’s	
2016	results.	The	portfolio	provides	
exciting opportunities	for	the	Group	and	
is	performing	in	line	with	expectations.
Eurasia	Rail	is	the	leading	railway	
infrastructure	show	in	Turkey	and	
extends	our	Transport	&	Logistics	
industry	sector	into	rail	transportation	
and	geographically	into	Turkey.	It	ran	
for	the	first	time	under	ITE	ownership	
in March	2015	and	performed	in line	 
with	our	expectations.	
Africa	Oil	Week	is	the	annual	Oil	&	Gas	
confex	held	in	Cape	Town.	It	is	the	
longest-running	and	most	prominent	
event	held	in	Africa	for	the	continent’s	
growing	oil,	gas	and	energy	industry.	
Delegate	attendance	and	financial	
performance	held	up	well	and	the	event	
remains	resilient.	We	expect	it	to	recover	
and	exceed	its	previous	levels	when	oil	
prices	return	to	more	normal	levels. ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
22
The	Group’s	management	has	invested	
heavily	in	managing	its	exposure	to	the	
Russian	economy,	by	reviewing	and	
controlling	its	cost	base.	Over	the	year	
the	total	headcount	in	Russia	has	been	
reduced	by	circa	11%	from	444	to	393,	
as	we	have	sought	to	keep	costs	in	line	
with	reducing	volumes	of	business.	
Venue	costs	are	the	biggest	part	of	our	
cost	base,	and	these	have	been	reduced	
in	line	with	business	volumes.	There	
have	been	positive	developments	in	
the	Krasnodar	business,	where	a	new	
venue	has	been	completed	which	will	
help	ITE’s	business	to	grow	in	future	
years.	Krasnodar	is	the	prime	agricultural	
region	in	Russia	and	is	benefiting	from	
the	current	focus	for	Russia	to	become	
less	dependent	on	imports	for	its	food	
production.	We	have	also	continued	to	
build	our	joint	venture	relationship	with	
Messe	Frankfurt	to	develop	a	world-class	
exhibition	in	the	Russian	auto	sector.	
This	joint	venture	already	runs	the	MIMS	
–	Automechanika	event	and	we	have	
jointly	invested	a	further	£3.2	million	to	
acquire	Comtrans,	the	commercial	vehicle	
exhibition	taking	place	in	Moscow.	
The	Asian	business	has	had	a	year	of	
building	structure	and	consolidation,	
following	the	acquisition	activity	of	
earlier years.	We	now	have	a	well-
established	management	structure	with	
a	clear	focus	on	how	to	build	a	coherent	
exhibition	portfolio	in	the	future.	A	good	
proportion	of	time	this	year	has	been	
spent	preparing	ourselves	for	the	exercise	
of	the	call	option	over	ABEC	in	India,	and	
establishing	how	to	properly	combine	the	
activities	of	our	two	business	units.	ABEC	
itself	has	had	a	very	strong	year	growing	
its	profits	by	40%,	and	we	are	pleased	
Manish	and	Sumit	Gandhi	will	continue	
to	work	for	ITE	and	ABEC	in	the	future.	
The	Group	continues	to	develop	its	
digital	capacity,	with	the	creation	of	a	
team	spread	across	the	regions	allowing	
the	Group	to	utilise	its	best	resources	
in	this	area	and	access	maximum	
synergies.	The	team	focuses	on	the	
use	of	existing	data,	in	particular	on	
enhanced	data	governance,	collection	
and	collation	as	well	as	best	practice	in	
digital	engagement	with	our	customers.	
Central	to	this	is	our	ability	to	monitor	our	
customers’	feedback	and	measurement	
of	their	satisfaction	and	experience	at	
the	Group’s	events.	The	team	is	also	
challenged	to	deliver	complementary	
revenue	streams	and	the	Group’s	
first	digital	product,	WorldBuild365,	
was	launched	in	July.	This	creates	an	
online	extension	of	the	exhibition	for	
the	construction	industry	by	bringing	
buyers	and	sellers	of	the	industry	
together	throughout	the	year	on	a	digital	
platform	where	they	can	share	product	
information	and	industry	knowledge.	
Venue	expansion	is	critical	to	the	
development	of	our	business.	As	
noted	before,	the	new	purpose-built	
venue	in	Krasnodar	offering	28,000m
2
 
of	international	standard	space	is	an	
improvement	on	the	old	facility,	which	
has	restricted	the	growth	of	some	of	our	
biggest	events.	A	new	50,000m
2
	venue	
in	Jakarta,	Indonesia,	which	is	opening	
in	early	2016,	will	facilitate	growth	of	
our	market-leading	construction	event,	
Indobuildtech.	In	Malaysia,	construction	
is	under	way	on	a	new	venue	of	circa	
20,000m
2
	due	to	open	in	2017	that	will	
create	opportunities	for	the	Group	to	
grow	its	events.	The	Group	is	increasingly	
well	positioned	to	participate	in	the	
growth	that	the	investments	in	local	
exhibition	facilities	will	generate.
ITE’s	diversification	strategy	is	continuing	
to	work	well	and	it	remains	a	priority	
to	create	more	geographical	balance	in	
our	business.	ITE	has	now	established	
‘cornerstone’	businesses	in	three	of	
the	largest	emerging	markets	of	the	
future	–	China,	India	and	Africa.	Having	
established	a	base	business	in	these	
geographies,	much	of	the	Group’s	future	
activity	will	focus	on	developing	additional	
scale	through	organic	development	and	
bolt-on	acquisitions	in	our	core	industries.	
The	historic	development	of	our	business	
has	left	us	with	strong	industry	positions	
in	Construction,	Oil	&	Gas,	Travel	&	
Tourism	and	Food,	with	multiple	shows	
in	each	sector.	We	have	this	year	created	
a	stronger	position	in	the	Transport	&	
Logistics	sector,	which	we	expect	to	be	a	
good	opportunity	in	our	new	emerging	
market	geographies	in	the	future.	We	are	
increasingly	seeing	more	synergy	across	
the	industry	portfolios,	and	the	expected	
contribution	from	acquisitions	made	in	
this	financial	year	will	fall	half	into	the	Oil	
&	Gas	portfolio,	with	the	remaining	half	
into	the	Transport	&	Logistics	sector.	
ITE’s	objectives	and	strategy	
ITE’s	principal	objective	is	to	create	
a business	with	sustainable	growth	
in headline	earnings	per	share.	Its	
strategy	is	to	develop	positions	of	market	
leadership	in	the	exhibition	business	
substantially	in	emerging	and	developing	
markets	with	good	growth	prospects.
ITE	has	been	evolving	its	strategic	
objectives.	We	have	to	date	been	
successful	in	establishing	positions	
in	new markets,	but	in	the	future	
our activity	will	be	orientated	towards	
development	of	brands	and	industry	
verticals	to	support	our	aim	for	industry	
leadership	in	certain	sectors.	This	
‘strength	in	depth’	logic	is	increasingly	
driving	the	development	of	our	future	
business	as	it	both	reduces	risk	and	
increases	synergy	to	develop	the	business	
within	sectors	where	there	is	expertise	
and	a	common	customer	base.	We	will	
continue	to	add	geographic	balance	
to	our	business	through	expansion	in	
our	industry	verticals	in	focusing	on	
emerging	and	developing	markets.
Four	priorities	underpin	ITE’s	strategy:
1.	 Improving	its	existing	positions	of	
market	leadership	
2.	 Expansion	into	new	sectors	and	
geographies	with	potential	for	strong	
market	positions	
3.	 Improving	our	exhibition	brands	
4.	 Developing	our	people
ITE’s	performance	against	its	strategic	
priorities	is	set	out	below:
(i) Improving existing positions 
of market leadership:
ITE’s	existing	positions	of	market	
leadership	are	founded	on	its	ability	
to	generate	international	sales,	its	
recognised	brands,	its	local	office	
infrastructure	and	its	long-standing	
relationships	with	venues.
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
International	sales	strength 
ITE’s	ability	to	generate	international	
sales	has	differentiated	it	from	its	local	
competition	in	Russia	and	the	related	
CIS	markets.	The	same	pattern	is	also	
true	of	China	and	South	East	Asia,	with	
international	participation	and	content	
being	key	differentiators	for	pricing	and	
position.	The	Group	has	established	a	
loyal	customer	base	and	a	geographic	
reach,	which	is	increasingly	valuable	as	
it	seeks	to	leverage	its	sales	into	new	
markets.	This	year	the	Group	has	focused	
on	growing	its	sales	from	Asia,	and	now	
operates	‘outbound’	offices	in	India	and	
Malaysia	in	addition	to	its	Beijing	office.	
In	2015	the	Group’s	international	sales	
offices	sold	105,000m
2
	which	represents	
circa	25%	of	the	Group’s	2015	revenues.	
Approximately	14%	of	revenues	were	
sold	by	the	Group’s	London	office,	3%	
by	the	German	office,	4%	by	the	Turkish	
office	and	6%	by	the	sales	offices	in	Asia.	
ITE’s	international	brands
ITE	has	established	strong	brand	
identities	in	certain	exhibition	sectors.	
In	particular,	the	WorldBuild	brand	
in	Construction,	the	Global	Oil	&	Gas	
brand,	the	ITE	Travel	portfolio	and	
the	WorldFood	brands	all	have	strong	
reputations	with	customers	as	leading	
events	in	the	Russian	and	CIS	markets	
earned	through	more	than	15	years	
of	sustained	good	performance.	
We	have	this	year	developed	these	
‘brands’	in	an	online	environment,	
and	developed	a	clear	new	brand	
in	the	‘Translogistica’	space.
Local	office	infrastructure	
ITE’s	brands	have	built	their	reputation	
through	sustained	delivery	of	successful	
exhibitions	to	customers.	The	foundation	
of	this	is	in	ITE’s	local	offices	which	now	
employ	over	900	staff.	Local	offices	
generate	the	local	sales,	reputation	
and	visitor	participation	of	the	event	as	
well	as	managing	technical	staging	of	
the	exhibitions.	Critically,	they	own	and	
develop	the	database	of	local	visitors	who	
make	the	exhibition	successful	for	the	
exhibitors.	In	its	core	markets,	ITE’s	local	
offices	have	always	been	a	competitive	
advantage	over	other	international	
exhibition	organisers	and	a	barrier	to	
entry	for	new	organisers	wishing	to	
run	events.	ITE	will	continue	to	develop	
strong	local	offices	as	part	of	its	exhibition	
business	in	new	markets.	The	Group	
has	an	integration	programme	for	new	
offices	acquired	into	the	ITE	network	
and	is	increasing	its	investment	in	the	
infrastructure	that	underpins	these	
offices	and	in	staff	training.	The	Group	
has	high	rates	of	employee	retention	
in	its	offices,	and	supports	this	by	its	
commitment	to	having	widespread	
equity	ownership	–	currently	63%	of	staff	
participate	in	some	form	of	equity	scheme.
Venue	relationships
ITE	has	always	enjoyed	long-standing	
relationships	with	the	venues	that	host	
its	exhibitions.	In	its	historic	core	markets	
ITE	has	supported	the	development	of	
venue	facilities	which	in	turn	has	helped	
the	Group’s	exhibitions	to	grow.	The	
Group	has	always	sought	to	establish	
rights	to	run	its	main	exhibition	themes	
in	its	partner	venues	at	the	time	of	its	
choice	and	ITE	has	continued	to	work	
on	maintaining	and	improving	the	
venue	relationships	that	underpin	its	
business.	Most	of	ITE’s	major	events	have	
agreements	which	provide	for	venue	
facilities	for	two	to	three	years	ahead.
(ii) Expansion into new sectors and 
geographies with potential for strong 
market positions:
In	existing	markets	this	strategy	
means targeting	new	sectors	in	which	
to	acquire	or	develop	exhibitions	where	
there	is	potential	for	the	participation	of	
international	exhibitors.	In	new	markets,	
ITE	is	targeting	the	development	of	
exhibition	businesses	where	there	is	clear	
opportunity	for	strong	future	growth.	
This	year	the	Group	has	continued	to	
expand	its	business	presence	into	Turkey,	
South	East	Asia,	China	and	Africa.	In	
so	doing	it	has	acquired	expertise	in	
new	sectors	–	some	of	which	have	the	
potential	to	be	replicated	in	ITE’s	core	
markets.	It	has	also	made	it	possible	
for	the	Group	to	run	its	existing	brands	
in	the	new	markets.	The	acquisition	of	
Africa	Oil	Week,	which	serves	the	oil	
industry	throughout	Africa,	provides	ITE	
with	a	platform	to	run	other	events	in	
select	African	countries.	We	have	already	
announced	the	launch	of	a	construction	
event	in	Nigeria	in	tandem	with	a	partner,	
and	we	plan	to	expand	the	Oil	&	Gas	
franchise	further	where	practical.	In	
India,	the	step	up	to	ABEC	becoming	a	
subsidiary	is	significant	for	the	future	
development	of	our	business	in	India.
As	the	Group’s	acquisition	activity	over	
the	last	few	years	has	opened	up	access	
to	new	markets,	there	are	now	increasing	
synergies	and	benefits	to	be	gained	
from	strengthening	its	industry	portfolio	
where	it	has	sector	presence.	The	Group	
aims	to	increasingly	focus	its	acquisition	
activity	on	building	portfolio	strength	
and	leadership	in	exhibition	sectors	
–	creating	stronger,	more	defensible	
business	positioning	for	its	exhibitions.
(iii) Improving our exhibition brands: 
The	Group’s	management	has	been	
working	to	strengthen	ITE’s	existing	
international	brands.	We	are	doing	this	
by	introducing	product	improvements	
to	enhance	customer	experience	and	
ensuring	consistency	in	the	presentation	
and	promotion	of	similar	events	in	
ITE’s	vertical	industry	sectors.	The	
Group’s	brand	development	projects	
have	covered	all	aspects	of	product	
quality,	naming,	character,	tone-of-
voice	and	graphic	designs	associated	
with	events	in	the	Group’s	largest	
portfolios.	The	improvements	will	
deliver	numerous	benefits,	including	
increasing	the	global	recognition	of	
ITE’s	brands	and	enabling	the	Group	
to	launch	events	into	new	territories.	
(iv) Developing our people:
The	Group	has	continued	its	
programme of	developing	the	
strength and	depth	of	the	leadership	
and management	teams	in	the	year	
as	well	as	improving	communications	
between	offices.	Current	initiatives	
include	a	continuing	commitment	to	
our leadership	development	programme	
focusing	on	the	Group’s	most	promising	
employees.	We	also	continue	to	invest	
in	a	rolling	programme	of	cross-
Group	development	conferences.	
Communications	have	continued	to	
improve,	with	a	high	level	of	employee	
engagement	via	the	intranet,	the	
newsletter	and	through	cooperation	
in	cross-border	industry	groups.
ITE	has	continued	to	evolve	the	strategic	
priorities	by	which	it	seeks	to	achieve	
its	overall	objectives.	The	Group	has	
been	successful	in	establishing	positions	
in	new	markets	and	in	the	year	ahead	
will	continue	to	focus	on	strengthening	
its	brands	and	industry	verticals.	
Russell Taylor	Chief	Executive	Officer
30	November	2015
