 We are a grocer at  
heart, with growing 
businesses in general 
merchandise, clothing, 
convenience, financial 
services and online
Dear Shareholder, 
It is almost a year since I became your 
Chief Executive and we launched a 
thorough review of our business in the 
context of a UK marketplace changing 
faster than at any time in the past 30 
years. These changes have impacted our 
profits and like-for-like sales and we 
have seen a 25 basis point decline in our 
market share this year as we compete 
with a growing discount sector and high 
levels of price competition. We continue 
to maintain our balance sheet strength 
by carefully managing our costs, working 
capital and capital expenditure to 
enable us to invest strategically for 
future growth.
Mike Coupe,
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s letter
Strategic Report Strategic Report
7
We know that our customers still want the best quality food at great prices. Customers are buying 
similar products today to ten years ago, but the way that they shop has changed significantly, 
with more shops and channels available than ever before. Customers have more choice, are 
shopping more frequently and buy less when they shop. Supermarkets will remain the place where 
people do most of their grocery shopping, but they will increasingly top up in convenience stores 
and shop online.
In this context, our strategy is built on our strong foundations of selling great food with a focus on 
quality, provenance and sustainability. Over 95 per cent of our shoppers buy our core by Sainsbury’s 
range and we continue to enhance our quality credentials by investing to improve the quality of 
3,000 Sainsbury’s own-brand products. At the same time, we know that our customers want value 
for money and we have therefore invested in lowering our prices; our prices versus our competitors 
have never been better. 
We also have significant opportunities to grow our business. Clothing, general merchandise and 
financial services have all performed well over the past 12 months, as have our convenience and 
online channels. We have a significant ambition to grow these areas over the coming years.
Our supermarkets are generally the right size and are located in densely populated and growing 
areas, which gives us a real structural advantage. Encouragingly, this year we have seen a record 
number of customer transactions, with nearly one million additional transactions per week. Our 
investment in the quality and variety of our food and non-food products, combined with our strong 
store estate, position us well to capitalise on opportunities to serve our customers whenever and 
wherever they want to shop. 
Importantly, we know our customers better than anyone else and are increasingly able to 
personalise our communication and offers to meet their individual needs. Our Nectar loyalty 
scheme gives us the ability to tell our customers about products and services that are relevant to 
them and to reward them with offers on things they want to buy. 
Sainsbury’s is a fantastic business, run by an experienced management team, supported by great 
colleagues and underpinned by strong values. Our investment in price and quality is showing 
encouraging early signs, with volume and transaction growth coming through. I believe we are 
taking the right decisions to ensure we remain fit for the future and are able to capitalise on our 
many growth opportunities.
We know our customers better than anyone else
Our values  
make us  
different
Colleagues 
making the 
difference
There  
for our  
customers
Great products 
and services
at fair prices
Our strategy
Great products and  
services at fair prices
— Quality leader
—  Strong value  
proposition
—   Gr o wth opport unit ie s  
in non-food and services
There for our customers
—   A c ompe t it iv el y 
advantaged  
supermarket portfolio 
—   Con v enienc e s t or e  
network growth
—   Developing our groceries 
online channel
Colleagues making  
the difference
—   Deliv ering gr ea t  
customer service
