 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
James Fisher and Sons plc
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that James Fisher and Sons plc 
ﬁnished 2015 strongly with an underlying proﬁt before tax 
for the year of £41.2m (2014: £46.9m), making for a much 
improved second half. While this represents a 12% decline 
compared with 2014, the result demonstrates the resilience of 
the Group’ s business model in challenging times. The breadth 
of James Fisher’ s activities across the marine sector meant 
that three of our four divisions continued to trade well, partially 
mitigating the sharp down-turn in our Offshore Oil division. 
Group revenue for the year was marginally lower at £437.9m 
(2014: £444.8m). Underlying diluted earnings were 68.5 
pence per share, a decrease of 7% compared with 2014.
Our Marine Support and Tankships divisions showed strong 
proﬁt growth. Marine Support’s performance reﬂected 
increased project revenues which were phased towards 
the second half as well as the initial contributions from 
businesses acquired earlier in the year. Tankships built 
further on its strong track record of recent years with costs 
reduced and utilisation improved. Specialist Technical 
delivered another strong result broadly in line with last year, 
making good progress with the delivery of its order book.
Our Offshore Oil businesses faced progressive oil and 
gas industry expenditure cut-backs as the year wore on 
with inspection and maintenance work being deferred, 
particularly in Norway. This has required management to 
take tough action to reduce costs and, sadly, staff numbers. 
The division is now on a ﬁrmer footing going forward 
assuming at least some stabilisation of demand. 
The Group’s cash conversion continued to be strong at 
95% with year-end balance sheet gearing remaining at a 
conservative 43% despite acquisition expenditure of £27.2m 
in the year and an increase in project related working capital.
The resilience of the Group’s performance has led the Board 
to propose an increase in the ﬁnal dividend to 16.0 pence 
per share compared with 14.9 pence last year, making a 
total for the year of 23.8 pence per share, an increase of 
over 8% compared with 2014. 
Strategy
The continued strong performance of the majority of the 
Group’s businesses together with the strength of its balance 
sheet has enabled James Fisher to maintain its strategic 
course. The Group remains focused on investing in niche 
businesses which operate in demanding environments 
where their strong marine service and specialist engineering 
skills are valued and rewarded. By a combination of organic 
investment and targeted bolt-on acquisitions, these 
companies have grown both in terms of service capability 
and international presence and have been integrated into 
a wider service offering for our customers. The success 
of this strategy is reﬂected not only in the proﬁt growth of 
recent years but also in the increased size of contracts being 
won and the growing strength of the Group’s international 
presence.
With the down-turn in Offshore Oil, the Board has given 
particular attention to our forward strategy this year. Overall, 
we believe that your Company remains well positioned to 
generate long-term growth. 
Our Marine Support businesses are global leaders in ship-
to-ship transfers and they have strengthened their project 
management capabilities both offshore and subsea. In 
recent years their worldwide network has grown signiﬁcantly 
with new bases in the Asia Paciﬁc region and in Brazil. The 
acquisition of Subtech in Southern Africa and increased 
investment in our Nigerian business were further steps 
forward in 2015. The division’s Subsea capabilities were 
boosted by the purchase of the mass-ﬂow excavator assets 
of X-Subsea and our development initiative in the offshore 
renewables sector was strengthened by the acquisition of 
Mojo Maritime in May. The recently announced offshore 
support service contract for the construction phase of the 
Galloper windfarm marks a signiﬁcant breakthrough in 
establishing James Fisher as an important service integrator 
to the offshore renewables sector.
“Underlying diluted earnings were 
7% lower at 68.5 pence per share. 
This demonstrates the resilience 
of the Group’s business model in 
challenging times, with a sharp 
down-turn in Offshore Oil being 
mitigated by the good performance 
of our other three divisions.”
Charles Rice, Chairman
Chairman’s statement Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
Our Specialist Technical division is also well placed 
strategically. James Fisher Nuclear has been successful 
in becoming a recognised Tier 2 supplier to the nuclear 
decommissioning industry in the UK. Its growing reputation 
offers openings to overseas markets in the future. The 
company will also be able to provide services to the UK’s 
nuclear new-build sector once this moves forward. JFD is 
a world leader in hyperbaric and submarine rescue service 
provision to both the commercial and defence sectors. The 
company has beneﬁted in recent years from strong orders 
for saturation diving systems from the commercial sector. 
We reinforced our position in this ﬁeld with the acquisition 
of the National Hyperbaric Centre in Aberdeen in February. 
We expect orders in this division from the oil and gas 
sector to slow but prospects overall to remain strong due 
to increased demand for our defence related products 
and submarine rescue services. JFD has been successful 
in strengthening its position in Asia Paciﬁc and we would 
expect this region to grow further. In both James Fisher 
Nuclear and JFD, the Group has businesses with strong 
market positions and good growth prospects. As project 
based businesses, their proﬁts are inevitably ‘lumpy’ but 
this variability can more easily be absorbed by a Group with 
three other more broadly based divisions.
Our Tankships division has produced an excellent 
performance in recent years. It provides some hedge to 
our Offshore Oil activities in that its volumes beneﬁt as the 
price of oil falls. We remain focused on investing in the 
management and ﬂeet operational performance of this 
division to ensure that it remains a strong niche provider to 
the coastal shipping sector both now and in the future.
The Offshore Oil division has been a key contributor 
to the proﬁt growth of recent years. We have lived 
through previous cyclical down-turns in the oil and gas 
sector before, but the speed and depth of this cycle 
has been greater than we expected. That said, I believe 
that the Group entered this cycle in a strong position. 
We consciously decided against chasing over-priced 
acquisitions in this division in the past ensuring that we 
entered this tougher market with a strong balance sheet. 
Our businesses are predominately focused on niche 
services to the inspection and maintenance sector and are 
well placed to beneﬁt from a resumption in maintenance 
and development work which cannot be postponed 
indeﬁnitely. Tough action was taken during the past year to 
cut our cost base signiﬁcantly but we have been successful 
in retaining the experienced management teams which 
have helped to generate our past success. We are therefore 
conﬁdent that this division will bounce back and we remain 
committed to investing appropriately to strengthen further 
its niche market coverage.
Overall, the Board believes that each of our four divisions 
continues to have attractive prospects based on strong 
market positions. The strength of our balance sheet means 
that the Group is well placed both to meet the organic 
investment needs of all four divisions and to continue with 
incremental acquisitions designed to reinforce our market 
positioning and our international network. Longer term, 
with its growing presence in the nuclear and renewables 
industries as well as the oil and gas sectors, the Group is 
well able to adapt to changes in the global energy mix. 
The Board
Following the new appointments of Non-Executive Directors 
in recent years, there were no changes in the Board 
composition in 2015. During the year, an external board 
appraisal was carried out which concluded that the Board 
functions well as a unit and has a good mix of business 
experience to ensure that issues are examined from a broad 
range of perspectives. The documentation reviewed by the 
Board was considered to reﬂect an appropriate and good 
level of governance and process.
Staff 
James Fisher has continued to beneﬁt from a strong and 
stable management team both at Board level and in our 
operating companies. This has enabled the Group to 
adapt successfully to the new opportunities opening up in 
Marine Support and Specialist Technical and to deal with 
the increased scale and complexity of our international 
operations. In Offshore Oil, management and staff have 
had to face the tough task of restructuring our businesses 
to meet the down-turn in the oil and gas sector which has 
involved substantial redundancies. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all employees for their hard work and 
dedication to the continued success of the James Fisher 
Group.
Outlook
The strong ﬁnish to 2015 and the recently announced 
award of the Galloper windfarm contract in Marine Support 
means that we start 2016 on a ﬁrmer footing. This contract 
will gain momentum later this year leading to a pronounced 
weighting of earnings to the second half. It is too early to be 
certain that our Offshore Oil businesses have bottomed out, 
but we may reasonably expect that the impact of continued 
adverse market conditions on this division’s earnings is likely 
to be limited following the restructuring work undertaken 
last year. Our Marine Support division looks well placed to 
deliver growth and Tankships continues to trade well at the 
levels seen last year. Prospects in our Specialist Technical 
businesses are strong but are linked to the timing of speciﬁc 
contract signings. Subject to conﬁrmation of these, we 
remain positive for the year ahead and conﬁdent of the 
Group’s potential to provide good growth and value for our 
shareholders in the future. 
Charles Rice
1 March 2016
