 Strategic Report - Chief Executive’s Review
18
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PROFIT
I am pleased to report a 53.2% growth in operating profit 
before interest to £3.9m in the year to 28 March 2015, 
compared to £2.5m in the year to 29 March 2014  
(prior to the impact of IAS 19 pension adjustments). 
Profit before tax (after IAS 19 adjustments) in the year was 
£2.6m representing an increase of 96% on the prior year.
REVENUE
Group revenue for the financial year was £83.1m, down 1.7% 
on the prior year.
Across both businesses, UK sales were up 3.4% whilst export 
sales fell 6.9%. Across the Group, sales into the USA were down 
4.8%. Sales into continental Europe were down 11.4% partly 
reflecting the Euro, which weakened by 13% against Sterling 
over the period, and partly as a result of lower volumes.   
Exports represented 47% of revenue in the year (2014: 50%). 
By division, revenue for James Cropper Paper fell by 4.1%. 
This was affected by the planned exit of a non strategic line of 
display board business, de-stocking by a key customer and the 
Sterling’s strength against the Euro.  In order to grow exports 
in the paper division, we have invested in our regional sales 
teams, and this is starting to bear fruit. Sales in the Greater 
China area, where we established a sales and marketing 
subsidiary in April 2014, were up 32% on the prior year.
Revenue for Technical Fibre Products increased 11.5 % 
year on year, with particularly strong growth generated 
in our target sectors of aerospace, defence, industrial and 
infrastructure. The fastest growing geographical region was 
China with sales growth of 66%, albeit from a relatively 
small base. TFP’s sales in the UK grew by 31%, reflecting the 
successful re-organisation of the sales teams.  TFP has seen a 
strong recovery in the UK wind turbine industry and a year 
on year uplift in sales for the joint strike fighter programme.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development (R&D) is a vital part of our 
growth strategy, adding to our capability, maintaining our 
competitiveness and bringing new product lines into our 
portfolios. We continue to invest in research and development 
REVENUE  OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST 
(2014: £84.5m)  (Excluding IAS 19 Impact)
  (2014: £2.5m)
£83.1m -1.7% £3.9m +53.2%  
PROFIT BEFORE TAX NET BORROWINGS
(2014: £1.3M)  (2014: £10.3M)
£2.6m +96% £6.1m -41%
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE FULL YEAR DIVIDEND PER SHARE
(2014: 15.0P)  (2014:  7.9P)
20.1p  +34% 8.5p +7.6% 
PHIL WILD 
Chief Executive Officer, James Cropper plc. Strategic Report - Chief Executive’s Review
19
JAMES CROPPER GLOBAL LOCATIONS
Worldwide presence with sales offices in Europe, China and USA
across the Group. Expenditure in R & D was £1.3m this year, 
up 7% on prior year. 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Capital expenditure during the year was £2.6m (2014:£3.0m). 
The largest investment was on the additional capacity in TFP . 
This work will be completed in time for early commissioning 
in July 2015.  
PENSION
The Group operates three pension schemes. Close to 55% of 
employees have defined contribution personal payment plans. 
The Group operates two funded pension schemes providing 
defined benefits for a decreasing number of its employees.  
On the defined benefit schemes the overall value of the Schemes’ 
assets increased by 25% over the period, whilst the schemes’ 
liabilities also increased by 25%. The IAS 19 valuations of 
these schemes as at 28 March 2015 revealed a combined deficit 
of £14.4m compared with £11.6m at the previous year end, an 
increase of £2.8m. This increase in the schemes’ overall deficit 
was principally caused by a decrease in the discount rate which 
is driven by new lows on corporate bond yields. 
CASH AND DEBT
Having repaid £2.1m of debt during the year, the Group had 
gross debt of £8.8m at the balance sheet date.  At the same date, 
it had £2.7m of cash, giving a net debt of £6.1m (2014:£10.3m). 
The Group had un-drawn overdraft facilities of £4.7m. With 
short term borrowings of £2.7m to be repaid within 12 months 
of the balance sheet date, £4.7m remained available to the 
Group. Post year end, the Group has secured a £5.5m revolving 
credit facility, which further enhances it’s financial flexibility. 
Gearing at the financial year end, after deduction of the IAS 19 
pension deficit, was 32%, down from 51% on the previous year.
GLOBAL PRESENCE
The Group’s significant presence worldwide is built on 
our own international network of manufacturing, research 
and development and sales facilities and is supported by  
sales agents.
STRATEGY
Since 2013, James Cropper plc has embarked on a growth 
programme covering all functions within the group.  
The programme is built on five strategic platforms:-
• Superior levels of operational excellence
• High performance culture
• Existing market opportunities
• Gaining additional profitable market share
• Customer intimacy and market presence
BURNESIDE, UK
SCHENECTADY, USA
PHILADELPHIA, USA
BRAZIL
SOUTH AFRICA
DUBAI
INDIA
AUSTRALIA
MALAYSIA
HONG KONG, PRC
GUANGZHOU, PRC
SHANGHAI, PRC
FRANKFURT, GERMANY
CREWE, UK
PARIS, FRANCE
•
 HEAD OFFICE    
•
 MANUFACTURING    
•
 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT    
•
 SALES OFFICE    
•
 PARTNERS Strategic Report - Chief Executive’s Review
20
SUPERIOR LEVELS OF  
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Objective: To establish world-class standards 
for safety, quality, efficiency, capability,  
service and cost throughout our businesses.
Achievements in product development and improvement
In Paper: investment in equipment to enhance colour 
management, slitting and laminating capabilities.
In TFP: development of laminated and powder 
scattered products.
Accreditations
In Paper: Food contact papers have been approved to 
European (BfR XXXVI) and USA (FDA 176.170 and  
176.180) standards.
In TFP: FOD (Foreign Object Debris) controls and 
compliance with the AS9100 accreditation is being completed 
in support of our aerospace business.
Safety
The Group was awarded a Gold Award by the Royal Society 
for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) in recognition of 
our safety work.  This recognised consistent high standards in 
monitoring health and safety on site and maintaining a process 
of continual improvement.
Supply chain
A focus on a lean supply chain has delivered significant 
increases in warehousing and storage capacities and improved 
delivery and service capabilities at a reduced overall cost.
HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE
Objective:  to develop our organisation by 
building on our existing skills and investing 
in our development programmes to maximise 
performance at all levels of the company,  
supported by external recruitment as necessary.
Development programmes
During the year the Group, in partnership with external 
professionals, committed substantial investment in 
employee development for our senior leadership and 
sales and marketing teams.  
External recruitment
The Group has made significant hires in operations,  
sales and marketing and technical, building further on the 
company’s capability.
In Paper we continue to invest in regional sales employees, 
with additions during the year across Europe and planned 
additions to follow in the USA.
Employee engagement
We implemented a number of actions following feedback from 
the 2013 employee engagement survey, including launching 
a new vision, values and leadership competencies.  
Our engagement levels will be measured again in our 
follow-up survey in 2015.
EXISTING MARKET OPPORTUNITIES
Objective:  to increase our market share 
within our prioritised existing markets.
Credentials
In Paper: with products containing increased levels of PCW 
(Post-Consumer Waste) as well as reclaimed fibre from 
our coffee cup recycling centre, we have enhanced our 
sustainability credentials across the product range.
In TFP: with products specified for use in the commercial 
aircraft sector and products specified into the F-35 Lightning 
II fighter jet we will benefit from higher sales as quantities for 
this programme and commercial applications increase.  
Phased exit of declining commodity markets
In Paper: an exit of a large portion of the display board market 
reducing sales by £2m, with minimal impact to profits.
Technical know-how
In Paper:  through businesses restructuring we have  
increased our ability to provide an overall solution for 
customers in specialist markets in the mid and higher  
value-add tiers. This is particularly notable within our  
luxury packaging business.  
In TFP: The provision of technical solutions in wind, energy 
and consumer electronics markets, solutions not available 
from other manufacturers. During the year, some key changes 
in the phosphoric acid fuel cell supply chain have left TFP  
well positioned to build a strong position in this market. Strategic Report - Chief Executive’s Review
21
GAINING ADDITIONAL PROFITABLE 
MARKET SHARE
Objective: to penetrate new geographic sectors  
and to grow specialised markets.
Geographical focus
In Paper: the expansion of our field-based sales team with 
additional coverage in key markets such as Germany, France 
and Spain. In 2015, a significant investment in the USA will  
be made. 
Also in Paper we have significantly strengthened the sales 
team’s language capability.
In TFP:  new business in China and Russia generates 
important revenue streams, and overall we have seen a 
double digit percentage increase in the number of new 
accounts. 
Also in TFP a more effective sales structure in Europe and 
a recognition that sales efforts are more effective when closely 
supported by members of the technology team.
Innovation and specialised markets
In Paper: a number of innovations branded under the James 
Cropper name have been launched, notably Khora, Coffee 
and Carvetian Suede.
Coffee is a new brand made from reclaimed coffee cup fibre 
separated from the plastic in the cups in James Cropper’s unique 
recycling plant.  This is a ground breaking product and has led 
to significant opportunities as well as raising the profile of James 
Cropper as a truly innovative player in the speciality paper sector.   Carvetian Suede was launched in Monaco late last year.  
It closely reproduces the soft, yet durable qualities of suede 
leathers in a paper-based form. Through the range of colours 
Carvetian Suede is manufactured with a minimum of 40% 
recycled, post-consumer waste. The product is intended 
to provide not only luxury brands with a lavish packaging 
solution, but also encourage those compiling business 
documents, brochures and creative advertising materials 
with a show stopping finish.
In TFP: investment focussed on a small number of funded 
programmes, which leverage government funding and 
relationships with primes and other supply chain partners 
with the aim of developing “future technologies.”  
The emphasis here is on composites, a fast growing market.
Also in TFP a number of development projects running 
directly with primes and tier 1 partners. These projects will 
see us strengthen our position through added know-how and 
capability in particle plating, electroplating, resistive heating 
and the application of thermoplastic veils in composites. 
Khora is a photographic quality paper with top class reproduction for creating high quality wall art.
Simple to assemble and fast to print, it serves the on-demand wall art market. CUSTOMER INTIMACY 
AND MARKET PRESENCE
Objective:  To increase customer intimacy 
and targeted geographic market presence.
Adaptation to customer needs
In Paper: development of the customer experience has been 
enhanced with extended customer service hours and improved 
product sampling, boosted by the brand experience through 
collateral and customer visits. Paper is implementing a 
relaunch of it’s brand which better reflects it’s strong heritage 
and the company’s values.
Customer reach
In TFP: significant marketing expenditure is helping to 
ensure that the company and its unique capabilities are 
better understood globally.  
Also in TFP strengthened relationships with both aerospace 
primes and tier 1 suppliers, leave us well placed to benefit  
from future growth in the aerospace sector.
Market presence
Both businesses exhibit at key events throughout Europe, 
Middle-East, Asia, Australasia and North America, and 
actively participate as subject matter experts in our field 
of expertise. Our exhibitions and PR strategy are proving 
effective in generating increased enquiries, visits to our web 
sites and attracting new customers.
BUSINESS PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS - 
DIVERSIFICATION & INNOVATION
Over the past 24 months we have reviewed and refined 
the focus for each of the James Cropper businesses. As the 
business strategy in Paper and TFP has taken hold it has 
allowed time to evaluate the opportunity for the company 
to innovate further to diversify the group. As a result in 2014 
the company established a new department: “Technology 
and Innovation” with the objective to build a third business 
for the company.
Following 18 months of testing and evaluation of a range 
of different opportunities, we have now concentrated our 
effort to develop one specific business. James Cropper 
3D Products will require significant up front investment 
and is expected to become profitable in 2018. More details 
of the business as it becomes established will follow through    
the year. 
Our strategy is now on a solid foundation and is starting to 
yield results across all of our businesses.  I am very encouraged 
with the progress made by the team and I remain highly 
confident on our ability to achieve significant future growth 
in both new and existing businesses.
Phil Wild
Chief Executive Officer
Strategic Report - Chief Executive’s Review
22 23
