 Strategic Report - Chairman’s Letter
14
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
MARK CROPPER 
Chairman, James Cropper plc.
Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to report that James Cropper plc made 
considerable progress in 2014/15.  
The strengthening of the business is evident in the many 
improvements that are being implemented across the  
Group and borne out in our improved profitability.
During the year, the operations of James Cropper Speciality 
Papers and James Cropper Converting were brought together 
and re-branded as James Cropper Paper under a management 
team drawn from both businesses.  This decision was 
well received by our customers and ensures we are able  
to offer them our full range of products, as well as access 
to excellence in supply chain management, service, quality, 
innovation, sustainability and brand development.
The operations of Technical Fibre Products (“TFP”) have 
been improved in the year by manufacturing developments 
which have reduced costs and increased capacity, all of 
which helped TFP to meet increased demand and more than 
double profitability year on year. Investment in additional 
manufacturing equipment will double our capacity for TFP 
in the UK and this is progressing according to plan with early 
commissioning expected to commence mid July of this year. 
This additional capacity will support our ambitious growth plans.
On the human resources side, we continue to strengthen the 
teams in both our businesses through selective recruitment, 
development and training.  Our commitment to investing 
in our people is encapsulated in our value “Continuous 
Learning”, which is covered elsewhere in this report, and in 
our focus on succession planning which forms another key 
part of our HR strategy.
The Group’s five strategic growth platforms, set out in 
detail in the CEO review (from page 18), are now firmly 
established across the company and are supporting its transition 
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
7.9p
7.9p
7.9p
7.9p
8.5p
DIVIDEND PER SHARE 2015 Strategic Report - Chairman’s Letter
15
to a culture which focuses on sustained growth. It has been 
this determination to improve margins, build operational 
efficiencies and sustain growth whilst maintaining a focus  
on our strategic platforms that has served us well and enabled 
us to deliver the improvement in profitability reported herein. 
Together with the steps taken to preserve and promote our 
values we are hopeful that we are building strong foundations 
for future success.
John Denman retired from the Board at the AGM on 30 
July 2014. John served James Cropper plc for 19 years having 
joined the Group in 1995 and I would like to thank him for  
his tremendous contribution to the company over many years.   
I am also very pleased to congratulate Isabelle Maddock 
on her appointment to the Board on 31 July 2014 as Group 
Finance Director. Isabelle joined James Cropper plc in 2006  
as Group Financial Controller and served as Head of Finance 
from September 2013. 
Diluted Earnings per Share (after the adjustment for IAS 19) 
increased by 34% to 20.1 pence compared to 15.0 pence in 
the previous year. 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.3 pence  
per share making a total dividend for the financial year  
of 8.5 pence, an increase of 7.6% on the prior year.
OUTLOOK
James Cropper Paper continues to operate in niche 
markets and we are honing our competitive edge, 
remaining focused on distinctive and technically advanced 
paper products, offering customers the expertise that comes 
from 170 years of papermaking and a continuous programme  
of investment in people, products and knowledge.  
Technical Fibre Products operates in high growth markets 
which offer many exciting opportunities including green 
technologies, aerospace, and defence. 
The Technology and Innovation division, which was set up  
in January 2014, has identified a diversification opportunity.  
A new business for James Cropper, manufacturing moulded  
products, which will build on our current strengths and  
knowledge, has been established. Investment in developing 
this business is underway.
I am delighted with the progress we have made in the past 
financial year. This was achieved as a result of the continued 
hard work and commitment of all my colleagues whom I wish 
to thank on behalf of the company and all its stakeholders. 
For many years I have communicated my belief that this 
company has great potential.  Now I see that this can 
and will be delivered in the coming years.
Mark Cropper
Chairman 16
Our Values and Pride Awards
SUCCESSFUL CUSTOMERS
Creating materials that make our customers successful has 
been a core driver for James Cropper plc for many decades.  
Tailoring products to meet exacting and often unique 
specifications is something we do every day but enabled 
by decades of investment in flexible equipment and wide-
ranging materials know-how.  Our capabilities are accordingly 
incredibly broad.
James Cropper Paper has a formidable reputation for 
supplying bespoke solutions to customers using its diverse 
range of capabilities that allows laminating, embossing, 
coating, watermarking and the creation of dazzling and 
stunning colours.  This flexibility, on one site, has made us a 
key partner for numerous leading players in branded goods, 
wine and spirits, framing, bookbinding, digital reproduction 
and electronic packaging.  
A recent example is the selection of our Obsidian black paper 
for the packaging of the Smartisan smartphone in China.  
James Cropper’s reputation  for quality and sustainability were 
cited as reflecting a key part of the brand story experience and 
we were featured as a key supplier at the launch event held in 
the China National Conference Centre in Beijing; over 
5,000 attended with nearly 3 million watching online.
TFP materials play an even more profound role in making 
customers’ successful, very often providing essential technical 
solutions in the industries served by the business.   
Not least TFP solutions are playing a key role in the aerospace 
industry as it develops lighter and more efficient aircraft 
based on composite carbon fibre materials.  TFP helps aircraft 
manufacturers and their suppliers to succeed and prosper  
by using our products to bond composites, to improve  
surface finish and to shield key electrical components.  
TFP products have also been used recently as part of a lower 
cost manufacturing system for primary aircraft structures, 
which has helped one of our customers win a significant  
new contract for a commercial passenger jet.
TFP is also taking a lead in recycling carbon fibre waste 
produced by aircraft manufacturers, further reducing  
the impact of this industry and providing customers with 
the means to demonstrate environmental responsibility.
PRIDE: INNOVATION &  CREATIVITY
PRIDE AWARD WINNER:  
BOB DUVALL 
(TFP Inc)
Bob continues to impress his colleagues with his knowledge 
and skills for plating. Plating operations have existed for 
decades, however Bob is always ready to try new ideas and 
applications. Even though certain plating concepts have been 
deemed unsuccessful in the past, Bob will come up with new 
suggestions and attempt to do things that have never been 
done before in the plating world.
PRIDE: CUSTOMER SERVICE
PRIDE AWARD WINNER: 
DEAN PENNINGTON 
(TFP Operator)
No job request or problem fazes Dean. He always takes it on 
positively and nothing is too much trouble. His standard of 
work and attention to detail is exemplary. Since joining TFP 
he has taken everything in his stride and does everything with 
a smile. He has quickly gained a reputation for going the extra 
mile and consistently works to a high standard. 
OUR VALUES AND PRIDE AWARDS Our Values and Pride Awards
01  TFP Recycled Carbon Veil
02   Bookbinding for 
international publications
03  James Cropper branded 
paper collections
04  Award winning packaging 
for the world’s leading 
manufacturer of high-quality 
chocolate and cocoa products
17
1
3
2
4
