 Our job is to grow 
shareholder value over 
the medium and long 
term and we are 
confident that we  
can achieve this
Chairman’s letter
David Tyler,
Chairman
Dear Shareholder, 
The UK grocery market is in the midst 
of major change as customers have 
significantly adjusted their shopping 
habits in recent years. People go grocery 
shopping more often, buy fewer items 
on each visit and are constantly looking 
for ways to make their lives more 
convenient. This trend has triggered 
significant growth in both convenience 
and discount stores but has adversely 
affected sales in supermarkets. 
Strategic Report This decline in profit is much less than that experienced by other major players in the market, but 
this is not of great comfort to your Board. Our job is to grow shareholder value over the medium and 
long term and we are confident, following the strategic review we conducted last summer, that we 
can achieve this despite the current trends in the grocery market. 
We have a very strong brand and broad customer base, and we are building on this. We know our 
customers better than anyone else and are making progress with our strategy of offering a wide 
range of products and services across food and non-food with our very particular focus on quality, 
customer service and value. Our food business is sustainable and trusted by our customers.  
We are already the seventh largest retailer of clothing in the UK by volume, we have a growing 
general merchandise business and Sainsbury’s Bank shows great promise. We aim to grow in all 
these non-food areas where we believe there are good profit opportunities.
This is your Board’s first report since Mike Coupe became Chief Executive last July. He has made 
a strong start and he leads a highly experienced and capable management team. We believe it is 
the team within our industry that is best positioned to succeed. Our recent initiatives such as our 
investment in price and quality are showing encouraging early signs – with volume and transaction 
growth coming through. 
Our business is built on strong foundations and we have been able to take our decisions from 
a position of financial stability. We are making significant cost savings and reducing capital 
expenditure to maintain the strength of our balance sheet. We are also committed to ensuring we 
pay an affordable dividend and are fixing our dividend policy to two times cover over the next three 
years. With this in mind, we are recommending a final dividend of 8.2 pence per share this year, 
making the proposed full-year dividend 13.2 pence per share. 
Our colleagues are our greatest asset. With their commitment and talent, they remain central to 
Sainsbury’s success. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our colleagues for their hard work 
and dedication to Sainsbury’s during this challenging year. They have dealt professionally with 
the far-reaching changes associated with our strategy and I am pleased to be able to announce a 
bonus of over £50 million to be shared by colleagues, compared with £80 million last year when 
profits were higher.
Our values are as important as ever and our priority is to ensure we work hard to achieve our 
objectives in the areas our customers really care about. This makes good business sense and also 
gives us real competitive advantage.
At the AGM, Gary Hughes is stepping down from the Board after ten years as a Non-Executive 
Director and as Chairman of our Audit Committee. I would like to thank Gary for his great 
contribution to Sainsbury’s, particularly in the areas of financial and strategic management. He will 
be succeeded by David Keens, who joined the Board in April and will become Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. David brings great experience of the retail sector and of financial management, which 
will be valuable in the years ahead.
The UK grocery market will remain challenging. Food price deflation has had a major impact on all 
players this year and that looks set to continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, the number 
of established players in this market means we can expect the competitive intensity on price to 
remain. We have a business that is strongly equipped to meet these challenges and build on its 
successful heritage.
£681m
Underlying  
profit before  
tax, down 14.7%
13.2p
Proposed  
full-year  
dividend,  
down 23.7%
£50m+
Bonus awarded 
to colleagues
There has also been a shift towards buying groceries online, which now represents five per cent of 
the total market. Finally, lower raw material costs combined with increased price competition in our 
market have led to price deflation.
Sainsbury’s has chosen to invest in all areas of the market. We have achieved strong sales growth in 
our convenience stores and online, and we began a trial in the discount sector in November to bring 
the Netto brand back to the UK. We have, however, experienced a decline in sales in our supermarket 
stores this year which has adversely impacted our results.
Underlying profit before tax was down 14.7 per cent to £681 million. Underlying basic earnings per 
share was down 19.5 per cent to 26.4 pence. Return on capital employed declined 157 basis points 
year-on-year to 9.7 per cent.
Strategic Report
5
