 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
30
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
JIMMY CHOO OUTPERFORMED  
THE MARKET AGAIN IN 2015 WITH  
ANOTHER RECORD FOR  
REVENUE
PIERRE DENIS
CEO JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
31
Despite a difficult year for markets in 2015, Jimmy Choo enjoyed 
further progress with another record for revenue driven by continued 
and consistent growth from our well-invested platform.
The impact of foreign currency was an important theme this year 
as the volatility in exchange rates affected the whole market and 
affected our regional shopping patterns. This coincided with an 
increased level of competition in the sector and a slowdown in 
growth in luxury overall. Our collections have performed well and 
our brand has extended its reach and I am pleased to report that 
Jimmy Choo has continued to grow ahead of the market.
Growth was led by Asia ex-Japan and Japan, where our brand 
awareness continues to increase strongly, benefitting from our 
ongoing store development programme and the continued expansion 
of the retail and wholesale channels. In Europe, our growth 
benefitted from increased tourism, although this was in spite of 
fewer Russian visitors and the impact of geopolitical events towards 
the end of the year. Our USA business made progress in a market 
distorted by both foreign exchange fluctuations (affecting buying 
behaviour) and competitive pressures.
Our revenue grew 7.2% at constant currency (6.1% at reported rates) 
with retail revenue up 8.7% at constant currency (7.7% at reported 
rates) with 1.1% LFL. We successfully reversed the decline on first 
half wholesale revenue, delivering 1.3% constant currency growth 
over the year. Adjusted EBITDA increased slightly above last year to 
£51.0m, as higher margins on revenue growth were offset by brand 
communication investment and higher indirect costs driven by our 
continued investment in our store opening and renovation 
programmes. Adjusted EBIT of £33.2m (2014: £35.4m) was lower 
than last year as a result of higher depreciation charges due to our 
continued capital investment in store openings, store renovation and 
replatforming in 2014 and 2015. Adjusted Consolidated Net Income 
of £19.0m was below 2014 despite improved financing costs, whilst 
our reported Consolidated Net Income of £19.4m compares 
favourably with a loss of £10.8m last year.
PRODUC TS
Our focus on shoes and our dedication to product quality ensures 
that we continue to create innovative products which resonate 
strongly with our clients around the world.
As a luxury accessories brand, design and quality is at the heart 
of Jimmy Choo. The products that we design and create are an 
expression of our DNA and enrich the brand. Our teams work hard 
to deliver products of the highest quality and innovation. From a 
design perspective, 2015 was a successful year. Our Creative 
Director Sandra Choi and her team have seen their designs warmly 
received by clients and critics – a key factor in the growing global 
appeal of our brand.
The main driver of revenue growth in 2015 was shoes, which 
continue to be at the heart of the brand, representing over three 
quarters of the business. Accessories volumes remained stable, 
with a trend towards smaller bags. We have also seen excellent 
growth in the Men’s business, now 7% of revenue, where we have 
increased the number of dual gender stores in the year. During 2015 
we also launched the ‘Illicit‘ fragrance and this along with the 
continued roll out of the ‘Jimmy Choo Man’ fragrance contributed to 
strong growth in Licence income. We also made excellent progress 
in both Sunglasses and Eyewear.
CHOO 24:7
The iconic Choo 24:7 collection, which forms the Jimmy Choo 
woman’s perfect wardrobe of shoes, underpins our business, 
representing around half of our shoe sales. The balance between 
our continuative icons and seasonal collections is one of the key 
elements of our merchandising strategy. We introduce new 
colours and fabrics in our iconic shoe styles in line with the seasonal 
collections, which maintains the cohesion of our seasonal look 
and feel and introduces newness into the continuative collection.
MADE TO ORDER
In order to enhance the luxury positioning of the brand and create a 
more bespoke offering for our clients, we launched Made to Order 
shoes during 2014. Clients can have a pair of shoes made, choosing 
from a range of designs and heel heights, fabric colours or materials 
and personalise them with their initials on the sole. Made to Order is 
now available across the retail website and is widely appreciated by 
our clients with a much increased level of business in 2015.
CINDERELL A
One of the best examples of our Made to Order business was the 
Cinderella shoe. We enjoyed a very high profile success following the 
involvement of Sandra Choi in the design of the Jimmy Choo take on 
the Cinderella shoe. This shoe was famously worn by Lily James to 
the film’s première in Berlin and subsequently featured in selected 
locations around the world, attracting orders for many hundreds 
of pairs.
“I think every girl desires a Cinderella moment in their lives. This 
story ignites a love affair and fascination with shoes that never 
dies. The power they have to transform is instilled from a young 
age and the fantasy remains alive forever. I wanted to create a 
shoe that felt magical, with alluring sparkle and a feminine, 
timeless silhouette evoking those childhood emotions.”
SANDRA CHOI, CREATIVE DIRECTOR JIMMY CHOO
COLL ABOR ATIONS
Jimmy Choo has long since believed in collaborations with other 
iconic footwear brands. In June 2015, Jimmy Choo announced a 
limited edition collaboration with Moon Boot
®
, the Italian iconic 
winter boots brand, which took the Moon Boot
®
 construction and 
translated it into a range of sophisticated, ultra glamourous designs 
synonymous with the Jimmy Choo name.
“I’ve always loved the futuristic, yet retro-cool Italian design of 
Moon Boot 
®
 and am delighted to create a Jimmy Choo signature 
look befitting the style.”
SANDRA CHOI, CREATIVE DIRECTOR JIMMY CHOO JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
32
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
CONTINUED
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR,  
WE LAUNCH SEASONAL COLLECTIONS  
IN LINE WITH THE INTERNATIONAL  
FASHION CALENDAR
COLLECTION INSPIRATION IN 2015:
SPRING SUMMER 
2015
Tribal artisan details play  
in contrast to modernist 
graphic lines and volumes. 
Ethnicity merges with bold 
geometric designs that 
reference diverse influences. 
Colour punctuates the 
collection in a calming array 
of muted pastels. 
Contradictions of colour, 
shape and silhouette draw 
on surrealist influences.
CRUISE 
2016
Couture detailing and sumptuous 
embellishment – crystals, mirrored 
paillettes, feathers and fur – play out 
against a luminous palette of 
champagne, pearl, silver and gold 
enveloping this free-spirited muse in 
a shimmering otherworldly glow.
PRE-FALL 
2015
New perspectives are 
explored which embrace the 
notion of trompe-l’œil with 
designs which deceive the 
eye using dimensional 
colour blocking.
AUTUMN WINTER 
2015
Ballet as delicate and light 
yet with a sense of 
discipline, drawing parallels 
with the theme of bondage. 
Exploring a palpable tension 
of power and restraint, 
strength and beauty in a 
subversive world of dance 
and movement. JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
33
Jimmy Choo also has a long history of collaborations with artists 
to create capsule collections. In May 2015, we launched the Choo 
Hound collection which incorporated Brazilian artist Rafael 
Mantesso’s drawings of his English Bull Terrier called Jimmy Choo, 
in the form of a series of illustrations commissioned by our Creative 
Director Sandra Choi to decorate a selection of Jimmy Choo 
accessories.
“All of a sudden, I had friends from all over the world forwarding 
me links to Rafael’s enchanting work featuring his lovable English 
Bull Terrier, Jimmy Choo. I was instantly charmed by the way he 
animated his captivating dog into his artwork. His work is so 
playful, clever and witty and we struck up an immediate 
friendship online. I just knew that I had to incorporate his work 
into a collection.”
SANDRA CHOI, CREATIVE DIRECTOR JIMMY CHOO
MEN’S
Men’s as a category has continued to make excellent progress, 
remaining our fastest growing category. Men’s now accounts for 
around 7% of revenue. The roll out of the Men’s fragrances continues 
to demonstrate the appeal of the brand image in the rapidly 
expanding men’s luxury space.
DIGITAL
Jimmy Choo remains the top ranked brand globally in editorial for 
luxury women’s shoes. At the end of 2015 we enjoyed a very strong 
social media following, including over 11m YouTube views during the 
year and now with a total of 3m Instagram followers, which are our 
two fastest growing channels.
As part of our DOS strategy we have continued to invest significantly 
in our online platform, which has seen strong revenue growth in 
recent years. We introduced our new responsive website in August 
2015, designed to capitalise on the growing trend of shopping on 
mobile devices.
NEW STORE CONCEPT
We continued to drive our retail channel expansion, with 13 new DOS 
opening in the period and a further three converted from franchise 
stores in Singapore and Malaysia, giving a total DOS portfolio of 141 
at the end of 2015. The focus of our retail expansion continues in 
Asia, where we remain underpenetrated relative to our luxury peers.
Our new concept continues to outperform and we refitted a total 
of 15 stores in the year, with 30% of our portfolio now in the new 
format at the year end.
Our planned ten flagship stores are designed to be a more full 
expression of the Jimmy Choo brand in key locations. The New Bond 
Street, Sloane Street, Beverly Hills and Harbour City Hong Kong 
flagship stores are already open. Future flagship stores are planned 
for New York, Milan, Paris, Tokyo, Shanghai and Beijing, with the 
programme complete by the end of 2017.
Our development programme continues unchanged with around 10 
to 15 new DOS per annum going forward and a further 10 to 15 DOS 
expected to be renovated each year.
ASIA – A CONTINUING GROWTH OPPORTUNITY
Our highly focused strategy in Asia has been successful, with the 
region continuing to lead the way. Asia ex-Japan grew by 20.1% on a 
constant currency basis, driven by continued new store openings in 
China and the conversion of three franchise doors to DOS in 
Singapore and Malaysia, together with the opening of a new flagship 
store in Harbour City Hong Kong.
We remain underpenetrated relative to the wider luxury market. Our 
brand awareness continues to grow strongly in both Asia ex-Japan 
and Japan. We have significant opportunities to maintain this 
outperformance in the years ahead through our collections and 
through the development of our channels, such as Travel Retail, 
where we have only limited penetration today.
INVESTMENT IN SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES
Following investment in 2014 in SAP and in the website, during 2015 
we continued with our transformation programme, with further SAP 
roll out and a successful move into our central global distribution 
centre in Switzerland. SAP implementation will take place in Japan 
during 2016 as well as the progressive launch of Omnichannel during 
the second semester, which is a key leverage project for the 
investments we have already made. We are already starting to see 
the benefit of the investment in our systems and logistics. We are 
now largely past the transition period and are starting to leverage the 
investment so that we can enhance product availability, improve 
inventory management and hence increase client engagement.
I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their contribution to 
this year’s strong results and to our shareholders for their support. 
I would especially like to thank our employees across the business 
for their continued hard work during this transformational year against 
a very challenging market backdrop.
NEW BOND STREET 
STORE
