 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
16
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
JIMMY CHOO CONTINUED  
TO OUTPERFORM THE MARKET  
AGAINST A CHALLENGING BACKDROP
PETER HARF
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
17
2015 was a challenging year for the luxury market, with a slowdown 
in key markets such as Russia and China, as well as currency-led 
fluctuations in shopping patterns experienced in Asia and the USA, 
with the impact also felt in Europe and the UK. Jimmy Choo 
continued to outperform the market even if total growth softened 
from 2014. Revenue during the period increased 7.2% at constant 
currency driven by continued and consistent growth (notably in Asia 
and Japan), new store openings and the ongoing expansion of the 
retail and wholesale channels.
HISTORY & STRENGTHS
Jimmy Choo is a 21st century accessories brand with shoes at its 
heart, with a focus on glamour, style authority, craftsmanship, luxury 
positioning and a distinctive iconic brand, now celebrating its 20th 
anniversary.
Jimmy Choo’s journey started in 1996 from an entrepreneurial 
start-up partnership, where a combination of the shoes of Mr. Jimmy 
Choo, OBE and the drive and inspiration of Tamara Mellon, OBE, 
created a luxury footwear phenomenon. They opened the first store 
in 1996, in Motcomb Street in London SW1 and sold 3,000 pairs of 
the first ready-to-wear shoe collection, with Mr. Jimmy Choo’s niece, 
Sandra Choi, serving as the Company’s Creative Director, a role she 
still holds today.
In 1998, Jimmy Choo opened its first boutique in New York City, 
followed by Los Angeles. Jimmy Choo became an innovator in 
Hollywood, being the first accessory brand to offer award nominees 
and presenters customised shoes for their red carpet appearances. 
The brand’s presence on the red carpet helped to create a global 
following and to make it a favoured brand among celebrities, 
supermodels and royalty.
Throughout its history, Jimmy Choo has been identified by the media 
as a key element of the fashion vibe, with prominence in films and 
television such as “Sex and the City” in 1999, “The Devil Wears 
Prada” in 2006 and the Korean show “My Love from the Star” in 
2013. More recently at the 2015 Oscars, Anna Kendrick and Neil 
Patrick Harris lyricised in the opening number about Jimmy Choo  
and the brand also featured in other productions including “Empire”, 
the television series. We also enjoyed a very high profile success 
following the involvement of Sandra Choi in the design of the Jimmy 
Choo take on the Cinderella shoe. The shoe was famously worn by 
Lily James to the film’s première in Berlin and subsequently featured 
in selected locations around the world, attracting orders for many 
hundreds of pairs.
There has been a sustained period of strong retail expansion 
supported by private equity ownership. In 2011, when JAB Luxury 
GmbH (“JAB Luxury”) acquired Jimmy Choo, we had a vision of 
a long-term continued growth strategy built upon the amazing 
brand and people in the business, underpinned by significant new 
investment in systems and processes.
JAB Luxury recognised Jimmy Choo as a world class brand, 
operating in an attractive market, with a strong design, 
merchandising, production and distribution platform, supported 
by a 360° communication programme.
ACCESSORIES VOLUMES  
STABLE, WITH A TREND  
TOWARDS SMALLER BAGS
ADJUSTED EBITDA (YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER)
£51.0M
 2015
 2014
 2013
£51.0M
£50.2M
£46.9M
WOMEN’S SHOES  
THE MAIN DRIVER OF  
REVENUE GROWTH JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
18
Luxury shoes are a highly complex category, with a range of functions 
(including pumps, boots, sandals, wedges and sneakers) each at 
various heel heights, each in a number of colours and materials and 
each in a range of sizes. This complexity means that in order to grow 
beyond a certain point, systems and processes need to be 
sophisticated and scalable, which requires significant investment 
behind the scenes. Taking Jimmy Choo out of private equity hands in 
2011 provided the environment for that core investment to commence.
As a result of that investment, the business is now scaled for growth 
and set to drive operating leverage to generate significant profit 
growth over the medium-term. We are well positioned to improve 
client service through our forthcoming Omnichannel and Customer 
Relationship Management (“CRM”) projects and to capitalise on 
recent successful infrastructure investments in SAP and the Swiss 
warehouse, which we would expect to drive inventory efficiency, 
thereby reducing markdowns and increasing cash flow.
OVERVIEW OF RESULTS
We are pleased with another year of above market performance 
of the business in 2015. Revenue increased by 7.2% on a constant 
currency basis and 6.1% on a reported basis. Our well invested 
business demonstrated its operational gearing potential with 
indirect costs falling from 12.6% to 12.4% of revenue despite costs 
associated with public company status, while Adjusted EBITDA grew 
to £51.0m. Our store development and transformation programmes 
led to an expected increase in depreciation charges and this led to 
Adjusted EBIT of £33.2m, compared with £35.4m in 2014. Adjusted 
Consolidated Net Income was reported at £19.0m (2014: £22.9m), 
with an improved level of financing costs offset by foreign exchange 
losses on translation. On a total reported basis, Jimmy Choo reported 
Consolidated Net Income of £19.4m, compared to a loss in 2014 
of £10.8m.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“AGM”)
Consistent with our digital strategy and positioning, we have decided 
to make our AGM electronic this year. We believe that this offers 
vastly improved accessibility to all of our shareholders as well as 
permitting them to vote securely and confidentially in advance, by 
proxy or at the meeting itself. This is consistent with the themes of 
a strong digital approach and innovation for which this business and 
brand is well known.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED
SANDRA CHOI  
AND LILY JAMES
THE JIMMY CHOO 
TAKE ON THE 
CINDERELLA SHOE
BOARD COMPOSITION
During the year Bart Becht left the Board, given his continuing 
commitments at Coty Inc.. We value the contribution made by 
Mr. Becht. We also welcomed three new Directors, Anna-Lena 
Kamenetzky, Meribeth Parker and Elisabeth Murdoch to the Board. 
All of our new Directors complement our international Board of 
Directors, which has extensive experience of running public 
companies in a global environment, with experience in luxury goods, 
retail, media, technology and consumer goods.
We believe that by using this wealth of experience to help monitor 
and guide the path of the management of the Company, we will 
ensure that the growth Jimmy Choo has produced to date will 
continue for the foreseeable future. Please see pages 48 to 51 for 
full biographies of the high calibre individuals who sit alongside 
Pierre Denis, Jonathan Sinclair and me on the Board. JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
19
GOVERNANCE
We believe that good corporate governance is the key to good 
businesses continuing to grow profitably for the long-term.
The Board is mindful of the need to continue to protect and promote 
the interests of the Company’s minority investors. The Board 
believes that the Board and its Committees, with the addition of 
the new independent Non-Executive Directors Meribeth Parker and 
Elisabeth Murdoch, will provide the appropriate corporate governance 
balance in light of the interests of both the majority shareholder 
and the minority shareholders. All members of the Audit and Risk 
Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and the 
Conflicts Committee assists in the management of the relationship 
between the Company and its majority shareholder. Further details 
of these measures are contained within this report.
OUTLOOK
We continue to pursue our overall growth strategy of focusing on 
the design of high quality collections which resonate with our clients 
and of growing the retail business through like-for-like growth and 
opening additional stores with a focus on Asia ex-Japan and Japan.
We are rolling out 10 to 15 new DOS per annum, with a focus on 
China and renovating 10 to 15 of our existing portfolio of DOS in the 
New Store Concept each year. We have continued to see good 
growth in both Asia ex-Japan and Japan, while Europe grew (despite 
disruption caused by geopolitical events towards the end of the year) 
as a result of the growth in Chinese tourism, offset by the loss of 
Russian clients. We continue to see outperformance by stores in the 
New Store Concept.
We remain focused on executing our growth strategy and pursuing 
growth without compromising our brand or its luxury position, 
despite the challenging macro-economic environment and the 
difficulties currently faced by the luxury industry. We remain 
confident in our ability to grow faster than the market. Our 
business in Asia ex-Japan (where we are underpenetrated) and Japan 
is growing well and we have significant opportunities to maintain this 
outperformance in the years ahead. 2016 will see the progressive 
implementation of our Omnichannel platform in the USA and Europe 
for our retail and online network. Our collections continue to be very 
well received with Men’s being notably successful. At the same time, 
continuous operating efficiencies and the dynamism and flexibility 
of our teams will allow us to drive margin expansion and a reduction 
in leverage.
I would like to thank Pierre and his highly talented teams for their 
commitment and diligent hard work during the year.
RETAIL REVENUE (YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER)
£207.7M
 2015
 2014
 2013
£207.7M
£192.9M
£177.4M
