 4 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategy
The successful completion of our refinancing 
plan in June 2014 has helped to provide a 
level of financial stability which has allowed 
us to focus on the pursuit of our increasingly 
digital strategic objectives. The refinancing saw 
£140 million being raised through a placing 
and rights issue and a further £220.5 million 
through the issue of bonds. In addition, we 
agreed a new £25 million revolving credit facility 
(which remains undrawn) and entered into 
revised pension arrangements. The refinancing 
allowed us to exit from our previous borrowing 
arrangements – lengthening the duration of  
our borrowing facilities, significantly reducing 
the Company’s financing costs and removing 
the operational restrictions which those  
facilities imposed. One effect of the placing  
and rights issue was that the Company had 
a very large number of shares in issue with a 
correspondingly low share price. The 50 to one 
share consolidation we undertook towards 
the end of the year addressed this, placing our 
share price at a more appropriate level.
Throughout 2014 we have continued to focus 
on our strategic priorities. We have remained at 
the forefront of our sector’s shift to digital and 
our initiatives in 2015 will seek to maintain that 
advantage. I have previously identified our digital 
business as key to our future and our plans to 
change the way in which we create content in 
our newsrooms and structure our sales teams 
to reflect this. We are working hard to deliver a 
return to revenue growth and have reached the 
digital tipping point on 290 occasions in 2014¹.  
It is essential that we drive further digital growth 
while continuing to protect our print-based 
revenues. Our key initiatives are set out in detail 
in the Strategic Report.
Results
Although the latter part of the year saw 
increased economic confidence, trading for the 
year as a whole continued to be affected by 
challenging economic conditions in many parts 
of the UK. In addition, our results reflect the 
increased investment in very targeted aspects  
of the business. Overall, the strong performance 
in some categories of our business was very 
encouraging. Total statutory revenues were 
affected by the disposal of our business in 
the Republic of Ireland in April and ended the 
year down 7.3% from £290.0 million to £268.8 
million. Statutory print advertising was down 
8.2% from £150.4 million to £138.1 million. 
Combined print and digital advertising revenue 
was down 4.2% to £167.2 million in 2014; whilst 
underlying advertising revenue was down 4.7%. 
The overall rate masks several areas of strong 
performance with employment total underlying 
advertising revenue growth of 3.4% leading the 
drive towards the advertising tipping point. 
Once again, underlying digital revenues grew 
strongly in the year by 20.0% from £24.0 million 
to £28.8 million. Property, motors and local 
display all joined employment in showing strong 
year-on-year growth.
Underlying newspaper sales revenue, 
supported by cover price increases, was down 
4.8% from £81.8 million to £77.9 million. 
Underlying operating costs were reduced to 
£210.4 million from £224.2 million in 2013,  
a £13.8 million year-on-year reduction net of 
investment in the digital business, reflecting 
our focus on cost leadership. Our programme 
of process and efficiency improvements and 
digital investment will continue in 2015. 
The resulting statutory operating profit was 
£10.7 million, a significant improvement on 
the prior year operating loss of £245.7 million 
including exceptional items. On an underlying 
basis, operating profit was up 2.8% from  
£54.0 million to £55.5 million with underlying 
operating profit margins improving from  
19.4% to 20.9% year-on-year. 
Underlying basic earnings per share, from 
continuing operations, was 0.76p, compared  
to 5.46p in 2013, comparatives have been 
restated to show additional bonus and rights 
issues of the Capital Refinancing Plan and 
share consolidation (Refer Note 14 and 27 for 
further detail). Statutory loss after tax, from 
continuing operations, was £15.3 million (2013: 
£215.7 million loss). Cash flow performance in 
the second half of the year benefited from the 
impact of the refinancing. Net debt at the end 
of the year was £184.6 million, a reduction of 
£117.4 million on 2013.
Total pre-tax exceptional items were  
£53.8 million (2013: £300.2 million). The 2014 
exceptional items included £24.5 million of 
write-down or impairments on publishing titles, 
property and assets held for sale, £16.5 million 
of restructuring and pension costs, £4.6 million 
relating to our long term incentive plans,  
£9.1 million of financing costs resulting from  
the refinancing and a £0.9 million gain on 
property disposals. More information on the 
exceptional items can be found in the Financial 
Review section of this report and Note 6 of the 
financial statements.
201 4 was the year we started to  
see signs of an improving economic 
climate and further positive results 
from delivery of our strategy.
We have seen another year of profound change, both for the Company and the industry in 
which we operate. Throughout this time we have continued to innovate and to maintain our 
place at the forefront of the changes in our sector .
Chairman’s Statement
¹  Digital tipping point is defined where 2014 revenue exceeds 2013 revenue within a category, within a Publishing Unit, within a given month.  5 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
Dividend
As we explained when details of the refinancing 
were announced, the provisions of our bonds 
restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends 
until certain conditions are met. Although the 
Board wishes to resume dividend payments as 
soon as is appropriate, no dividend is proposed 
for the year.
Industry Issues
2014 marked the establishment of the 
Independent Press Standards Organisation 
(IPSO) as a new independent monitoring  
and complaints body for our industry. We  
have joined IPSO and believe it offers a  
system of redress which is both accessible  
and effective for those with a complaint while 
being tough, fair and proportionate for local 
newspapers. We have used the launch of the 
organisation to review our internal and external 
procedures to ensure that they comply with 
IPSO’s requirements. 
Board
I would like to thank my Board colleagues  
for their leadership, particularly during the 
refinancing process in the first half of the year. 
In order to ensure stability during that time, the 
Board determined that it would not review its 
make up until the completion of the refinancing.
The Board regularly reviews both the balance  
of its membership and the issues it considers 
when it meets. The agenda for the Board’s 
meetings continue to be structured to 
scrutinise both strategic and operational 
matters in an atmosphere of constructive 
challenge and debate. I am satisfied that the 
Board remains effective.
Employees
We are well aware of the hard work of our 
employees and the considerable change they 
have seen in recent years. On behalf of the 
Board I again wish to express our gratitude to 
them for their dedication. Once more they have 
continued to deliver high quality work and play 
an essential role in our ambition to be the fabric 
which binds local people with local businesses.
Outlook
We are seeing encouraging results from 
focusing on those areas of growth which  
have the potential to deliver the greatest 
benefit. Our aim is to continue to improve  
our effectiveness in all areas of the business 
whilst driving innovation for the benefit of our 
audience and our advertisers. We plan to seek 
to take advantage of not only that innovation, 
but also more favourable conditions in some  
of our markets and the beneficial platform that 
the refinancing has given us to improve our 
performance in 2015.
Ian Russell
Chairman
It is essential that we 
drive further digital 
growth while continuing 
to protect our print 
based revenues.
