 6 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2014 was the second consecutive year where 
we posted underlying operating profit growth,  
a satisfying achievement given that growth in 
2013 followed seven years of operating profit 
decline. It was also a year in which we were 
hailed as one of the most attractive turnaround 
stories in the UK market¹, with Digital Kitbag and 
Sky Adsmart heralded as exciting initiatives. 
Review of the Year
Underlying digital advertising grew by 20.0%, 
with strong growth in key categories such as 
Entertainment (WOW247) growing by 244%, 
The Smartlist, one of our employment offerings, 
grew by 211%, Motors up 88%, Property up 
52% and Local Display up 19%.
Our aggregate audiences have continued to 
grow; our average monthly audience for the 
year was 27.3 million, up from 24.5 million in 
2013, a growth of 11.4%. A key driver for this 
growth was our digital audience which grew by 
35.8% from an average in 2013 of 12.3 million 
unique users a month, to an average of 16.7 
million in 2014.
Our digital kitbag offering had its first full  
year, having launched in late 2013, and an 
agreement was signed with Sky to sell their  
Sky AdSmart solution. Both of these initiatives 
support our advertisers to target the customers 
more precisely and with a clear return on 
investment I’m excited about these and other 
digital initiatives that we will deliver in 2015.  
In October 2014 alone we sold digital kitbag 
offerings to 390 new customers.
We were instrumental in developing  
and launching the 1XL initiative which 
will substantially change the way national 
advertisers engage with local press for digital 
advertising. 1XL is a collaboration of local and 
regional press organisations that gives us a truly 
national reach. This is yet another initiative that 
will support our objective of top line advertising 
revenue growth in 2015 and beyond.
In 2012 we extended our existing lending 
facilities through to September 2015. The 
terms of those facilities provided strong 
incentives to implement a debt refinancing 
by the end of 2014. I am pleased to report 
that in 2014 we achieved that through a 
fundamental restructuring of our debt, and 
pension obligations, which has provided a more 
balanced capital structure with a significant 
reduction in leverage and in turn has provided 
a significantly improved platform for the 
Company to continue its strategic initiatives. 
At the end of 2014, our net debt stood at 
£184.6 million, down from £302.0 million at  
the end of 2013. With this substantial reduction 
of debt we have also been able to secure a 
lower interest rate and therefore a significantly 
reduced interest charge and we have also 
extended the maturity of our debt. This saving 
will allow us to increase the investments we 
make in our business in order to deliver on  
our strategic objectives, while continuing to  
pay down debt.
We managed production costs tightly and 
supported by lower prices for paper, we 
reduced our production costs by 3.3%. We 
recorded savings across pre-press, printing, 
newsprint and distribution. Our total underlying 
costs, driven by headcount reductions reduced 
by £13.8 million, net of investment in our digital 
business, a year-on-year reduction of 6.2%. 
All this supported underlying operating profit 
growth of 2.8%.
Priorities for 2015
Significant progress has been made in 
implementing the longer-term vision for the 
future of Johnston Press with changes and 
innovations being undertaken to grow our 
audiences, transform our revenue base and 
maintain our cost leadership position.
Transformation programmes such as 
‘Newsroom of the Future’, alongside new ways 
of working in our sales and operational teams, 
will be key to how we adapt to our changing 
environment, and the new approach will enable 
our teams across the business to concentrate 
on the things that are most important – 
delivering what our readers and advertisers 
want, in a cost effective and efficient manner.
The focus on quality will continue to be key.  
We want to achieve a big increase in customer 
and reader satisfaction by continuing to 
improve our end-to-end processes across  
our sales and editorial functions. To enable 
these priorities, we are focusing on two core 
transformation programmes in 2015, which 
have already started to make substantial 
progress. These projects are:
Audience strategy – driven by the ‘Newsroom  
of the Future’ project, a concept that we piloted 
during 2014 and will roll out this year. This will 
re-engineer our newsrooms to equip us to cope 
with the demands of reporting in the modern 
age. In the future our newsrooms will deliver;
• Larger and more engaged digital audiences
• An improvement in the print product
• More contributed/user generated content 
will appear on more platforms, more of  
the time
• Staff will have new workflows, technology 
and tools, freeing up time for more 
investigative journalism and improving 
productivity, whilst reducing costs.
Second consecutive year of  
underlying operating profit growth.
During 2014 we continued at pace to transform our business into a modern multimedia 
organisation; the changes implemented supported us in continuing to meet our strategic 
objectives of growing an engaged audience base and returning our business to top  
line growth.
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
¹ Source: Peel Hunt, November 2014. 7 Johnston Press plc > Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report > Directors’ Governance > Financial Statements >
At the end of 201 4, 
our net debt stood 
at £1 84.6 million, 
down from £302.0 
million at the end  
of 2013.
Commercial strategy – we are starting to pilot 
new models for our sales teams and equipping 
our operational teams to work in different 
ways, enabling both to deliver high quality and 
effective solutions for our customers. Salesforce 
of the future will aim to;
• Retain more existing customers
• Improve yields
• Move to solution selling
• Improve customer satisfaction
• Reduce field sales costs
Summary
We continue to be exceptionally well placed to 
meet the demands for information from the 
communities we serve, but the way we do this  
is changing and the growth of our mobile 
audiences continues to reflect this. Successful 
implementation of our transformation projects 
will ensure that we continue to be well placed to 
serve our communities in the years to come. 
Our financial performance, underpinned by 
our refinancing, is stabilising and provides 
us with the confidence and ability to invest 
in transforming our business into a modern 
multimedia organisation. 
Ashley Highfield
Chief Executive Officer
