 Financial statements 
104-169
Governance 
68-103
5
JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 
2-67
At a glance – our performance
From the Chief Executive, Tom Reed:
“Since the appointment of the new Board on 28 January 2016, 
we have visited all the main assets of the Group and identified 
significant scope for operational improvements and cost 
savings across JKX. 
Areas of legacy risk exist primarily related to production 
tax litigation in Ukraine which we are confident that we can 
continue to manage.
During 2015 and in 2016, significant non-recurring 
administrative costs have been, or will be paid, by the 
Company as a result of past events and the Board is exploring 
all options to mitigate these.
We are encouraged by the physical characteristics of our 
reservoirs in Russia and Ukraine, the quality of the staff 
across JKX, the opportunity for operational and capital 
spending improvements, and remain committed to improving 
value per share to all shareholders. 
There are many challenges facing the Company, and the new 
Board is committed to a new and transparent approach and to 
actively engage all shareholders and other stakeholders of the 
Company in order to turn it around.”
 
Key financials
Operating highlights
Outlook
	 2015	 	 2014
Revenue $88.5 m  $146.2m 
Loss from operations before exceptional charges  $10.7m  $11.6m profit
Exceptional charges $64.9m  $72.5m
Loss for the year $81.5m  $79.5m
Loss per share 47.32 cents 46.21 cents
Net cash generated from operating activities $9.1m  $47.5m
Capital expenditure $8.7m  $42.3m
Board of Directors replaced by shareholders at a General Meeting on 28 January 2016 
Average production 8,996 boepd (2014: 9,919 boepd)
No development drilling in 2015 due to cash constraints
Well-27 restored at the Koshekhablskoye field in Russia
Six 35-year production licences awarded in Hungary (JKX 100%) 
New Board reviewing all development projects and enhancement opportunities as part of a wider review of future strategy
4
JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report 2015
At a glance – our business
What we do
JKX is an upstream oil and gas exploration and production 
company with significant oil and gas assets in Ukraine and 
southern Russia.
Where we operate
The head office is in London, which employs 22 staff.  
Our operational areas are shown below:
Black Sea
Russia
Ukraine
Caspian Sea
Moscow
Elizavetovskoye
Kiev
Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex
Koshekhablskoye
Poltava
Maikop
Ukraine
Staff	 	 493
Fields	 	 6
Wells	 	 45
Production	 	 4,325 	 boepd
2P	 Reserves	 	 29.7 	 MMboe
Russia
Staff	 	 249
Fields	 	 1
Wells	 	 5
Production	 	 4,671 	 boepd
2P	 Reserves	 	 66.1 	 MMboe
Strategic priorities
Profitable 
production 
growth
Oil and gas  
reserves  
growth
Safe and 
responsible 
operations
1 2 3 Financial statements 
104-169
Governance 
68-103
7 6
JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report 2015 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 
2-67
of approximately $180 million in Rental Fees, plus damages 
to the business. The arbitration hearing is expected to take 
place in July 2016, which will include witness statements from 
certain members of the old Board and will result in additional 
legal costs for JKX.
In Ukraine, the Company’s subsidiary, Poltava Petroleum 
Company (‘PPC’), continues to experience a combination of 
aggressive production tax demands for periods up to the 
end of 2015 and also challenges to its compliance with the 
terms of its production licences (see Notes 2 and 27 to the 
financial statements). We have met with representatives of the 
Ukrainian Government in recent weeks to attempt to find  
a solution to all our production tax and licencing issues  
in-country and we are confident that an acceptable solution 
can be found. I will update shareholders when we have clarity 
on these issues.
Russia
The fall in international oil prices and continued sanctions are 
having a negative impact on Russia’s domestic economy. 
A combination of continuing low gas prices, which are set by 
the Russian Government, and the devaluation of the Russian 
Rouble in 2015 from RR56:$1 to RR72:$1 adversely affected 
the Group’s profit and cash generated from its Russian project 
in US Dollar terms. 
The combination of the recent Russian Rouble devaluation and 
only a minimal gas tariff increase in the near term has had 
a negative effect on our plans to expand our current licence 
portfolio there.
Hungary and Slovakia
Despite the recent fall in international oil prices, our 
exploration and appraisal prospects in Hungary and Slovakia 
remain attractive. Both economies are relatively stable and 
the Board is currently reviewing the investment options for 
these licences in 2016.
Cash 
The Group’s cash balance at the year end of $25.9 million has 
been significantly reduced in the first two months of 2016 by the 
$12.3 million redemption payment due under the terms of the 
convertible bond and the $2.2 million of severance costs and 
additional remuneration which the previous board approved 
and paid prior to the General Meeting on 28 January 2016. 
Cash balances will be further reduced in the coming  
months due to $3 million of legal costs incurred by Eclairs 
and Glengary, following the finding against the Company by 
the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom in respect of the 
imposed shareholder restrictions. In addition, the Company 
will also have to pay its own legal costs for the continuation of 
any international arbitration proceedings (as already  
noted above).
Debt
In accordance with the terms of the Company’s $40 million 
Convertible Bond, $7.2 million of bond payments were 
made during 2015 and in February 2016 the Company made 
scheduled early redemption repayments to bondholders of 
$12.3 million. 
If all bondholders exercise their option to early redemption  
in February 2017, as they are entitled to under the terms of the 
bonds, the Company will owe bondholders a further  
$30.1 million at that time. 
Board
Following the replacement of the entire Board on 28 January 
2016, the composition of the Board has not complied with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the number of 
independent Non Executive Directors. 
The Company has engaged an independent consultant to 
conduct due diligence on a short-list of candidates and is now 
in the final phase of appointing two new independent  
Non Executive Directors. As soon as this has been completed 
we will be re-establishing board committees to oversee audit, 
remuneration and nominations, to ensure that JKX has the 
first class corporate governance that it needs. As a temporary 
measure, and to ensure appropriate review and process in the 
release of this report, an Interim Audit Committee consisting 
of myself and Russell Hoare, your new Chief Financial Officer, 
was appointed.
Outlook
There remain risks noted above in respect of the $30.1 million 
bond payment which may become due in February 2017, the 
contingent liabilities in respect of Ukrainian production taxes, 
the Ukrainian production licence compliance issues and the 
continued low oil and gas prices, which, if realised, may impact 
the going concern status of the Company. These risks are fully 
addressed in Note 2 to the financial statements. However the 
Directors believe that there is a reasonable basis to mitigate 
the effects of such eventualities through negotiation with 
the Ukrainian Government, further operational and cash 
management measures and other restructuring or refinancing 
options, which are currently being assessed.
During our short period in office we have conducted an initial 
review of the Group’s assets, and the Board believes that JKX 
assets and staff provide a good platform to consolidate and 
improve on its existing oil and gas opportunities in central and 
eastern Europe.
It is true that the Board inherited many difficult challenges, 
but this is why we believed that change was so desperately 
needed. We remain committed to a transparent approach that 
actively engages all shareholders and other stakeholders of 
the Company and you will have already seen the first of what 
will be regular operational updates. We are confident that we 
will be able to turn JKX around.
Finally, I wish to thank all our shareholders and staff for their 
support of the Company and the new Board in this period of 
change. I look forward to working with all stakeholders to 
restore the value of the Company over the coming months.
 
Paul Ostling
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
A fresh perspective
I am pleased to present this report on behalf of the new Board 
of Directors that was appointed by shareholders on 28 January 
2016, charged with bringing a new vision and approach to 
restore shareholder value at JKX. This change in the Board 
resulted from proposals made by one of the Company’s 
largest shareholders, who saw that the Company needed a 
new direction and requisitioned a General Meeting to allow 
all shareholders to vote on this idea. It is a rare example of 
genuinely successful shareholder activism in the long history 
of the London Stock Exchange.
At the time of writing I am nearing completion of my second 
month as Chairman of your Company and so this report details 
activities that occurred before any of the new Board took 
office. None of the Directors who were in office in 2015 are  
now with JKX. When combined with the fact that 2015 was 
a year of continuing low international oil and gas prices 
combined with volatility and uncertainty in the regions in which 
JKX operates, the factors behind your Company’s results 
were beyond our control. However I can make two promises: 
from this point forward your new Board will be completely 
transparent in how we communicate to shareholders 
regarding the challenges we face in such an environment and 
the steps we are taking to restore the Company’s fortunes; and 
we will be resolutely committed to increasing efficiency and 
reducing needless costs.
Performance in 2015
The low oil and gas prices and the lack of capital investment 
led to the Company’s production, profits and operating cash 
flow falling significantly in 2015. Despite this, the Company has 
remained cash generative from its operations. 
The disappointing financial performance and decline in 
production was exacerbated by the suspension of all but 
essential capital investment across the Group, the delays in 
bringing well-27 in Russia back on line, and the intense focus 
of the Company on various legal proceedings.  
Ukraine
In Ukraine, the introduction of the 55% rate of production 
tax, foreign exchange controls and government-imposed 
restrictions on the sale of gas during the three months to 
28 February 2015 led to cash constraints and no capital 
investment programme during 2015.
The investment climate has improved following the reduction 
of gas production tax rates to 29% for 2016 and the lifting of 
restrictions on the sale of gas in February 2015. However the 
Ukrainian economy remains fragile and foreign exchange 
controls remain in place, making the repatriation of cash 
extremely difficult. 
You will no doubt recall that in 2014, the Company commenced 
arbitration proceedings against Ukraine on the basis of 
overpayment of production taxes (‘Rental Fees’), as explained 
more fully in Note 27 to the financial statements. During 2015 
an international arbitration tribunal issued an Interim Award 
requiring the Government of Ukraine to limit the collection 
of Rental Fees on gas produced by PPC to a rate of 28%. 
This Interim Award remains in effect until final judgement is 
rendered on the main case, which relates to the overpayment 
Paul Ostling  Chairman
