 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 / Kalibrate Technologies plc
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Leading vision.
Proven results.
In Kalibrate’s second year as an AIM company on the 
London Stock Exchange, I am pleased to report that we 
strengthened our position as the market leading provider 
of comprehensive software-based solutions for fuel 
and convenience retailers. Kalibrate is the only global 
provider of both pricing and planning solutions from 
a single cloud-based platform, powered by an unmatched, 
verified market intelligence dataset. Kalibrate’s signature 
strategic approach – the 7 Elements for Fuel Retail Success 
– is being recognised and proven in diverse markets 
around the globe. 
As proof of our success, I am extremely pleased to 
report another year of record revenue and earnings 
growth where revenue increased 13% to $32.5 million 
and underlying EBITDA improved 22% to $4.4 million. 
We placed particular emphasis this year in signing 
new clients and converting existing clients to the 
SaaS model of business where applicable. 
The past twelve months have seen us make rapid progress 
in our plans to secure business on new, more visible, 
long-term SaaS relationships. It is a change that we have 
committed to make for Kalibrate’s long-term financial 
strength, and our clients have a strong appetite for it, 
too. As a result of our efforts, our annualised recurring 
revenue increased to $21 million from $19.6 million in 
the prior year, and our order book increased 15% to 
$41.4 million, both of which provide us with greater 
revenue visibility and stability for the future. 
PRICING, PLANNING & STRATEGY 
The Group’s fuel pricing solution automates and scales 
the analysis and execution of optimal pricing based on 
strategic criteria each client defines. Advanced price 
elasticity models, critical historical price/volume and 
competitor data and flexible formulas result in predictive 
analytics for the most competitive prices. Revenue 
for our Pricing products rose by 19% to $21.5 million, 
contributing 66% of Group revenue in the period. 
We were able to achieve Pricing growth in all geographies. 
The Americas increased 18% due to a positive mix 
of SaaS and perpetual license wins. Europe increased 
24% due to the full implementation of its large managed 
services contract with a major oil company and several 
SaaS and perpetual license deals. ROW improved mostly 
from SaaS pricing wins in SE Asia/Australia. This growth 
has been achieved whilst we had the overall positive 
trend of a growing number of our clients electing to enter 
into SaaS model contracts instead of large upfront 
perpetual license contracts. 
Our planning solutions provide Kalibrate’s clients with 
in-depth market and demand analysis, capital investment 
scenario analysis, forecast changes in demand and rapid 
assessment of the competition, as well as forecasting sales 
volumes of fuel, convenience stores, fast food restaurants 
and car washes often located on petroleum retail sites. 
Revenue for our Planning products slightly increased to 
$11.0 million compared to $10.8 million in the prior period. 
The increase in revenue in North American, Europe and 
Africa, which comprised 66% of the total planning segment, 
was offset by declining revenues in Japan. The Japan 
planning market is very mature, and Kalibrate experienced 
a very strong year in 2013 with a considerable amount of 
market activity driving market studies. Since that time, the 
market has retrenched into established site plans. Japan’s 
pricing market, however, is as yet undeveloped. Kalibrate 
is adding resources to the market in order to introduce 
our pricing product slate. The Group has seen significant 
increased planning projects in its core markets and has 
secured new clients for planning services in Bosnia, 
Bulgaria, Chile, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Kenya, 
Mexico, Romania, Morocco and Serbia. 
The Group is experiencing demand for both planning 
and pricing products in deregulating markets including 
Latin America, Africa, India and Southeast Asia. Mexico 
deregulated during the fiscal year; we completed a 
consulting project for a retail chain and, at the end of 
Fiscal 2015, signed a planning contract with one of the 06 Kalibrate Technologies plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
PRICING, PLANNING & STRATEGY CONTINUED
fastest growing fuel retailers in the country. A significant 
pricing deal in Brazil opens further opportunity in 
South America. We won several SaaS pricing contracts 
in the Philippines and Australia, while in India we have 
been working with a national oil company on planning 
and pricing models as they prepare for competition 
to increase in their newly deregulated market. 
Kalibrate’s Strategy Group division provides consultative 
expertise in pricing, planning and market intelligence. 
They play an increasing role in deregulating markets, 
where concepts of micro-market pricing are still 
new. Kalibrate’s Strategy Group division is at the 
forefront of market and industry trends, contributing 
thought leadership that raises Kalibrate’s profile in 
the industry as a whole. Through the combination 
of its expertise and Kalibrate’s relevant offerings, 
the Group’s solutions become a critically important 
decision making tool, embedded in our clients’ 
everyday pricing and long-term planning. 
FIVE KEY STRATEGIES 
We remain committed to our strategy as set out in our 
2013 Admission Document. We have seen success in 
all five areas of our growth strategy which consists of: 
1. Grow core markets and cross-sell to existing clients
2. Expand into new geographies
3. Accelerate roadmap of complementary products
4. Expand managed services offering
5. Drive Software as a Service (“SaaS”) conversion
Strategy 1:  
Grow core markets and cross-sell to existing clients
We have had significant success this year in generating 
revenue from our existing clients, which has been achieved 
through cross-selling our Pricing and Location/Planning 
products as well as expanded services and data reselling. 
At the time of our IPO, 18 of our clients purchased both 
Pricing and Planning solutions and services. This total 
now stands at 31, a steady increase with further room to 
grow. To evidence that our strategy has been working, 
we have been able to expand some key relationships 
within our mature markets of North America and Europe 
to grow our market share further. 
The complexities of managing fuel and convenience 
retail performance are increasing. Thus, a large number 
of legacy and in-house systems being used by Kalibrate’s 
existing and prospective clients are no longer able to 
cope with the volume of data and sophisticated analytics 
required to keep pace with market dynamics. Kalibrate 
is well positioned to capitalise on these opportunities 
to help clients manage and navigate this complexity. 
Strategy 2:  
Expansion into new geographies 
Deregulating markets present significant opportunities 
for Kalibrate’s strategy consulting services and pricing 
and planning solutions. We continue to lay the groundwork 
and processes with a priority on India, where deregulation 
was announced in October 2014. We have expanded our 
relationship with a major client in India since deregulation 
and are pursuing new opportunities in the region. 
During the year, we have added several new countries 
to our portfolio including; Kenya, Mexico, Brazil, 
Philippines, Morocco, Serbia, the Czech Republic, 
Romania and Croatia. We continue to see expansion 
opportunities in Africa, Southeast Asia, India and Latin 
America. In each of these growth markets, the drivers 
for the Group’s progress remain the deregulation of fuel 
pricing in various countries, increased competitiveness 
in the fuel retail industry and add-on business from 
existing satisfied clients. 
Strategy 3:  
Accelerate roadmap of complementary products 
Kalibrate Cloud 1.0, our SaaS solution, was launched 
4 September 2014 and will be followed with the launch 
of significant upgraded capabilities in Kalibrate Cloud 2.0 
as of October 2015. 
Kalibrate’s SaaS offering allows client to access our Pricing, 
Location and Market Intelligence services securely in a 
cloud environment. This offers the fuel and convenience 
retail industry an expert source for intelligence, insight 
and action to support faster, more confident decisions 
and is fully mobile enabled via desktop, tablet or 
smartphone. Our SaaS solution is helping to win new 
clients, motivate existing clients to upgrade and 
increasing recurring revenue. 
Our upcoming Cloud 2.0 represents a significant step 
forward in expanded pricing capabilities, enabling 
pricing management from the fuel forecourt to in-store. 
Kalibrate is the only company to offer this end-to-end 
capability and we continue to innovate and develop 
products that keep us at the forefront of the growth in 
the alternative fuels sector. 
Strategy 4:  
Expand managed services offering 
The growth of Kalibrate’s managed services offering 
has evolved more quickly than anticipated. Kalibrate  07 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 / Kalibrate Technologies plc
invested significantly in 2014 to build a multi-country 
infrastructure to deliver on the trust placed in us by our 
managed services clients. With our partner, Rackspace, 
we serve 28 managed services clients, including the 
largest single contract by total monetary value in 
the Group’s history, which generates approximately 
$2 million per annum over the multi-year term. 
At the time of our flotation, we stated our belief that 
the Group had at least 100 existing Pricing clients who 
would be suitable for a managed services offering. 
As at 30 June 2015, we had secured 28 managed services 
clients, up from 14 at the start of the current fiscal year. 
Our focus remains on continuing to convert existing 
clients as well as adding new clients to our managed 
services offering in order to grow further our recurring 
revenue base. We have increased operational and sales 
resources to support our growing managed services 
offering. The Kalibrate Cloud single platform will be 
the driver for clients to move to managed services. 
Strategy 5:  
Drive Software as a Service (“SaaS”) conversion 
Historically, Kalibrate sold its Pricing product by way of the 
sale of an upfront perpetual license to a client. In line 
with the Group’s strategy, a number of new contracts 
this year have been secured on a SaaS basis which offers 
Kalibrate greater revenue visibility, longer-term client 
relationships typically of three to five year fixed terms 
and higher overall gross margins. Due to market trends 
and clear client demand, this transition from software 
installations has accelerated in 2014. At the same time, 
the Group has also converted a number of existing 
perpetual license clients to SaaS-based agreements. 
This transition, embraced by clients for its flexibility and 
simplified IT requirements, helps to ensure long-term 
client partnerships, increases the number of new clients, 
enhances forward visibility and builds out our recurring 
revenue stream. The SaaS-based solution also enables 
the Group to reach new market segments optimised for 
mobile delivery, such as India, and more efficiently deliver 
solutions in a way that fits with clients’ operational 
imperatives. In fiscal 2015 a majority of new clients 
chose our SaaS offering and we see this trend continuing 
on an ongoing basis. The SaaS offer is a preferred 
business model which will increase revenue visibility 
with recurring revenue. 
2016 will see us continue to make this transition, 
allowing us to create a Group that can deliver higher 
recurring revenues, even stronger client relationships 
and enhanced margins for the long term. 
OUR PEOPLE ARE OUR STRENGTH 
Kalibrate is distinguished among competitors by our 
people’s expertise and true dedication to client success. 
Our 100% global client retention rate for this past year 
is a result of genuine dedication. I am proud that so 
many clients consider us not just a solutions provider 
but a partner who cares about their business. Every day 
around the world our professionals build Kalibrate’s 
reputation for precise business insight and industry 
expertise. I warmly thank our people throughout the 
world – Kalibrate’s greatest strength. 
OUTLOOK 
Kalibrate continues to deliver upon the strategic goals 
that were outlined when the Group joined AIM. We have 
made solid progress, achieved consistent financial 
performance, retained existing clients, won new clients 
and invested further in our platform offerings. By delivering 
comprehensive solutions to a diverse client base in a 
demanding industry, we are well positioned to retain 
our market-leading position. 
Kalibrate continues to become a more diversified Group 
through our offerings and expanding geographical 
footprint. Post period end, we have announced an 
exclusive new reseller partnership with Clear Demand, 
Inc. and are excited about the opportunities open to us 
as Kalibrate will have full global exclusivity to provide 
fuel retailers with Clear Demand’s in-store merchandise 
and promotions pricing capabilities, whitelabelled under 
the Kalibrate brand. This new offering will make Kalibrate 
the only business decision platform that enables visibility 
and control of the entire fuel and convenience retail 
industry, from forecourt to instore. The strategic 
differentiation will expand Kalibrate’s market size 
globally and strengthens the Group’s position as the 
industry leader. 
We are in the right place at the right time with the right 
expertise and solutions. We move into the new financial 
year with confidence that our strategic roadmap is correct 
for consistent growth that will serve clients well and 
generate outcomes for our shareholders.
Robert B. Stein, Jr. 
Chief Executive Officer
14 September 2015
