 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 06
Strategic report
CEO’s statement
Continued progress as we transform 
the business
Dear shareholder
During the last year we have continued with the transformation 
of the business, building on the progress made since we began this 
journey back in 2008. Our full year financial results were broadly 
as anticipated and I am pleased to report that there has been 
continued progress in our focus areas, as we transform into an 
integrated business. 
Within the Kcom segment, made up of the activities relating to 
our Kcom, Smart421 and Eclipse brands, we continued our shift away 
from the provision of declining network-based voice and associated 
commodity services and towards more sustainable, higher value 
managed IP-based services. Those services included our contract to 
provide HMRC with a range of contact centre services, exploiting our 
investment in our market leading ‘Workplaces’ platform. This was 
delivered successfully and in place ahead of the personal tax 
self-assessment deadline at the end of January. 
We launched also a number of cloud-based packages, primarily aimed 
at small and medium-sized businesses. These include a managed 
Office 365 service, with increased levels of customer support and 
tailored migration. During the year, our Eclipse brand became one 
of Microsoft’s first official Cloud Solution Provider partners.
We continue to 
shift towards 
sustainable, higher 
value services
In summary
 I Progress towards becoming 
an integrated business
 I Continue transformation through 
tighter focus on three key markets
 I Integration of brands to align resource
 I Journey continues into coming year KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 07
Strategic report
Across all brands, we continue to see growing interest in our cloud 
and collaboration related capabilities.
As a result of this continued shift, the revenue and margins from 
some of our more traditional legacy activities have continued to 
decline. Recognising this, and their diminishing importance and 
contribution to future growth, an exceptional impairment charge 
has been recognised against the goodwill balance associated with 
those related historic acquisitions made in 2004.
In the KC segment, our Lightstream fibre network is supporting 
the demand for cloud-based services among SMBs, with continued 
interest for example in our high definition cloud-based CCTV service. 
Demand is driven also by Hull’s inclusion in the Government’s 
Superfast Britain voucher scheme, aimed at supporting SMBs with 
improved digital connectivity.
We have seen continued strong demand for our fibre-based services 
among consumers in the region with take-up well in excess of national 
rates. As a result, we have taken the decision to accelerate the rate of 
deployment and, by March 2017, over 100,000 homes will be able to 
access the service.
We have seen that fibre customers consume over twice as much 
data compared to those using a standard copper-based broadband 
connection. This demonstrates the growing importance of high 
bandwidth connections as customers look to make use of the wide 
range of ‘over the top’ services that are being developed such as 
on-demand content. 
While many of those services are developed by third parties, we have 
begun to develop regionally-focused content for consumers, including 
coverage of local sporting and cultural events. Our content offering 
is in the early stages of development and we will be making more 
content available, particularly in the run up to Hull becoming the UK 
City of Culture in 2017. 
These are the key opportunities for future growth and in the coming 
year, we will seek to accelerate the progress we’ve made to date. 
Ofcom
In March, the industry regulator, Ofcom, announced its intention 
to undertake a strategic review of the UK’s digital communications 
market, to ensure that communications providers and services 
continue to meet the needs of consumers and businesses. It will 
examine competition, investment, innovation and the availability 
of products in the broadband, mobile and landline markets. 
The first phase of the review will examine current and future market 
factors that may affect digital communications services, and current 
regulatory approaches. Ofcom expects to publish a discussion 
document in the near future.
We will play an active part in this review, continuing our active 
and constructive dialogue with the regulator and other 
communications providers. 
Looking ahead
Over the coming year, we will continue to tighten our focus on the 
three key markets we serve: enterprise, small and medium-sized 
business and consumer. 
To do this, we will begin the process of integrating our existing brands 
in order to align resources with those target markets and prioritise 
investment more tightly to support our strategic growth areas, where 
we see increasing opportunity. We see this, in particular, being the 
provision of cloud-based services, the integration of collaborative 
systems and their related consultancy, design and integration 
activities and the development of fibre-based propositions. Building on 
the progress to date, we will continue consolidating our business-wide 
operational and support services to remove overlaps and duplication 
creating a more scalable, agile operating model. 
Our achievements so far on the journey are a testament to the 
capability, commitment and collaboration of everyone across the 
business and it is that strength and combination of qualities that will 
see us continue our successful transformation, while continuing to 
deliver the highest standards of customer service.
Bill Halbert
Chief Executive
17 June 2015
We will seek to 
accelerate the 
progress we 
have made
