 04 Kalibrate Technologies plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to issue my second final results statement 
as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Since Kalibrate’s 
admission to AIM in 2013, the Group has continued to 
make steady progress on the strategic path outlined 
at that transformative moment.
Kalibrate remains at the forefront of providing business 
intelligence solutions to the fuel and convenience retail 
industry. The Group continues to execute on its clear 
strategy of growing in its core markets, expanding 
into new geographies, expanding its roadmap of 
complementary products, expanding its managed 
services offering, and driving more clients to the software 
as a service (SaaS) model. The Group continues to affirm 
the confidence placed in it by the market and by its 
valued shareholders, and we remain excited about 
the prospects for sustained long term growth. 
The Board is pleased with the continued progress made 
during Kalibrate’s second year as a quoted company. In 
2015, the Group posted record revenue of $32.5 million, 
a 13% increase over the prior year, improved its order 
book by 15% to $41.4 million and strengthened annualised 
recurring revenue to $21 million from $19.6 million the 
prior year which led to underlying EBITDA of $4.4 million. 
The Group continues to respond to industry trends and 
client needs, addressing opportunities that deliver both 
value for clients and returns for shareholders. 
BOARD UPDATE 
Our Board and leadership team encompasses a range of 
expertise which spans industry, technology, marketing 
and investment. During 2015, the Group welcomed 
Gregg Budoi, who replaced Brad Ormsby, to the leadership 
team as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President 
of Finance, Human Resources, and Business Development. 
He brings over 20 years of experience in the petroleum 
retail, convenience store and finance sectors, as well 
as extensive merger and acquisition experience. 
On behalf of everyone at Kalibrate and the Board, I wish 
to thank Brad for his dedication and contribution to the 
Group particularly throughout the IPO process. 
OUR STAFF 
Kalibrate’s success is created every day through the 
expertise and dedication of its people. As Kalibrate 
continues to expand around the world and into new 
territories, the Group remains focused on recruiting, 
retaining and developing its people who embody its 
core value – a commitment to client success. On behalf 
of the Board, I thank all employees for their continued 
dedication to the success of the business and look 
forward to their involvement in its future progress. 
OUTLOOK 
As we enter a new financial year, the Board remains 
committed to executing on our stated strategy with 
a particular emphasis placed upon securing new 
and converting existing clients to the SaaS model 
to provide further revenue visibility, improving gross 
profit margins and ensuring longer-term client 
relationships. Based on this continued momentum, 
the Board expects to see continued progress in the 
year ahead and remains confident that the Group 
is on track to achieve its current targets for 2016.
Philip Lawler
Chairman of the Board
14 September 2015
For more about Company strategies, see the Chief Executive’s Review on page 5. 
For detailed financial results, see the Chief Financial Officer’s Review on page 16.
