 KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 04
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
We have seen clear progress in terms of 
growing customer demand and increased 
operational effectiveness
In summary
 I Business continues to progress 
its transformation
 I New Board appointments bring fresh 
perspectives and contributions
 I Focus and discussion on strategic milestones 
and succession planning
 I Continued dividend growth reflects strength 
of the business
Dear shareholder
The business continues to perform well, progressing its transformation 
journey to become more tightly focused on the markets in which it 
operates. While this journey will continue into the coming financial year, 
we have seen clear progress in terms of growing customer demand and 
increased operational effectiveness.
Dividend
As a result of this progress and our confidence in the strength of the 
business, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.58 pence per share 
(2014: 3.25 pence). Subject to shareholder approval at this year’s AGM, 
the final dividend will be paid on 4 August 2015 to shareholders 
registered on 26 June 2015. The ex-dividend date is 25 June 2015.
The proposed total dividend of 5.37 pence per share (2014: 4.88 pence) 
would result in a sixth year of 10 per cent growth in the total dividend. 
This is consistent with the Board’s previously stated commitment to 
grow full-year dividends by at least 10 per cent per annum and this 
commitment remains in place until 31 March 2016. 
The executive team 
continues to lead the 
transformation of 
the business KCOM Group PLC 
Annual report and accounts 2014/15 05
Strategic report
Strategic focus
As the executive team continues to lead the transformation of the 
business, a great deal of the Board’s time has been focused on evaluating 
progress against key strategic milestones. We continue to have an 
effective Board in place, with debate and constructive challenge on all 
of the key areas of the business. Given the strong focus on the strategy 
of the Group, there has been a standing agenda item at each Board 
meeting to discuss strategy, with contributions from across the Board.
Board appointments
We reported last year that we were seeking an additional Non-Executive 
Director to join the Board and we were delighted to appoint Peter Smith 
to the Board in January 2015. Peter brings with him a wealth of 
experience in assisting businesses across different industries in 
developing and delivering their strategies.
Earlier this year, Martin Towers notified us of his intention to retire from 
the Board at the AGM in July 2015. In seeking a successor for Martin’s 
role, we welcomed Liz Barber to the Board in April 2015. She has 
significant financial experience and expertise and will become 
Audit Committee Chairman following Martin’s departure. 
We believe that both Peter and Liz will bring new perspectives to 
our Board discussions and will contribute significantly to the ongoing 
effectiveness of the Board. We used external recruitment consultants 
who are completely independent of the business for both appointments.
Board effectiveness 
We continually consider the effectiveness of the Board and have a formal 
evaluation annually, which in 2014 was performed by an independent 
external firm. The conclusion from the evaluation was that we are 
operating effectively but there were some minor areas for improvement, 
which are detailed further on page 32. We have taken action in all the 
areas identified as we strive to be as effective as we can be.
We always seek to ensure that we have appropriate succession plans 
in place both for the Board and for the senior management team 
of the business and this has been another regular topic of discussion 
during the year.
Looking ahead
Over the coming year, there are a number of priorities for the Board. 
The first is for Peter and Liz to continue to familiarise themselves with 
the business and spend time with members of the senior management 
team. We believe that having a clear understanding of how the business 
operates is key to the Board’s ability to measure progress and contribute 
to its future success.
As the transformation of the business continues, I anticipate that a great 
deal of the Board’s time and focus will be on reviewing progress against 
the key strategic milestones set out by the senior management team. 
Given the growing dependency on the strength of our people, the Board 
will increasingly dedicate time to further discussions around succession 
planning and to making sure that plans are in place to retain and 
develop talent. 
Good governance and responsible business
We believe that good governance is essential to the Group and we seek 
to adopt best practice in all areas of governance where it is possible to 
do so. We also believe it is vital that the Board lives the values according 
to which the Group conducts itself; those of being open and considerate, 
team-minded, flexible, inspiring and innovative. I believe that our current 
Board achieves this and we will seek to continue to demonstrate these 
values in all that we do.
Those values have been embraced by employees and we continue 
to have a high level of engagement in community programmes right 
across the business, and particularly in Hull and East Yorkshire. 
At the end of this year, we came to the end of our three-year Charity 
Partnership with Sparks, during which, through a wide variety of 
fundraising activities, we were able to raise over £235,000 for the 
charity. This money will support Sparks’ ongoing work to fund 
pioneering research into conditions that affect babies, children 
and mothers-to-be. 
At the start of this financial year, we began our new partnership with 
the Teenage Cancer Trust and I am sure that we will see equally 
enthusiastic support.
Finally, I would like to acknowledge once more the significant 
contribution made by our employees. An environment of transition and 
change inevitably results in a level of uncertainty. Since we began this 
journey in 2008, our employees have consistently demonstrated their 
commitment to delivering inspiring experiences to our customers and 
I have every confidence in their ability to rise to the challenges ahead. 
I thank them for their focus, hard work and commitment.
Graham Holden
Non‑Executive Chairman
17 June 2015
Employees have consistently 
demonstrated commitment 
to delivering inspiring 
customer experiences
