 On 10 December 2015 the Group announced that Clinton Dines 
would step down from his position as a non-executive Director, 
after six years of service, with effect from 31 December 2015. 
Clinton’s knowledge of China combined with his experience of 
the global resources sector has been a great asset to the Group.
Following Clinton’s departure, John MacKenzie was appointed to 
the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2016. The Board 
remains fully compliant with the independence requirements of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, with a majority of 
independent non-executive Directors.
Health and safety
The Board is committed to achieving zero fatalities, so it is with 
regret that I report that three fatal incidents occurred at our 
operations during 2015, two of which involved contractors and 
one a KAZ Minerals employee. In 2014 we had seven fatalities  
at our continuing operations. The reduction in fatalities in 2015 
occurred in a period in which the total number of man-hours 
worked increased by 78% as we entered high intensity stages  
of construction at Bozshakol and Aktogay and ramped up 
production at Bozymchak. In 2016 we will continue our efforts  
to improve our safety culture. At Bozshakol and Aktogay, new 
joiners are being trained in international best practice. We will 
establish a strong safety culture at the growth projects and then 
transfer these new working methods to drive improvements in 
our existing operations.
2015 has been a difficult year for the mining industry, with 
declining commodity prices. The LME copper price ended the 
year 26% lower and the FTSE 350 mining index fell by 48%. 
The Group has, despite the challenging markets, performed well. 
Following the Restructuring in 2014, KAZ Minerals entered the 
year with a portfolio of cash generative, low-cost mines and two 
major growth projects under construction. The operating mines 
achieved their production targets and we successfully reduced 
gross cash costs. We also recorded the first copper production 
from oxide ore at the Aktogay project and commenced 
commissioning works at the Bozshakol concentrator in December, 
with the first shipment of copper concentrate to China due in 
March 2016. During 2015, KAZ Minerals has made significant 
progress towards realising its strategic objective to become a 
low-cost producer focused on large scale, open pit copper mines.
Board changes
There were three changes to the Board during 2015. As 
announced on 26 February 2015, Lord Renwick of Clifton 
stepped down from the Board following the Annual General 
Meeting on 7 May 2015. We are grateful for the immense 
contribution Robin has made to the Group since his appointment 
as a non-executive Director in 2005.
John MacKenzie was appointed as a non-executive Director  
of KAZ Minerals PLC on 1 March 2015. Prior to joining KAZ 
Minerals, John was the CEO of Copper for Anglo American and 
he brings extensive operational experience of the copper mining 
industry to the Board.
“KAZ Minerals has made significant 
progress towards realising its 
strategic objective to become a 
low-cost producer focused on large 
scale, open pit copper mines.”
DELIVERING
GROWTH
Simon Heale
Chairman
12 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Environment
Copper mining and processing are energy-intensive activities  
with associated environmental impacts such as the generation  
of tailings waste, water and energy consumption and the emission 
of CO
2
. The Group seeks to minimise its impacts wherever 
possible and in 2015 they are considerably lower across many 
metrics compared to 2014 following the disposal of mining, 
smelting and power assets in the prior year. In the East Region  
we made improvements at our concentrators that reduced our 
energy consumption. The Bozshakol and Aktogay projects utilise 
modern technology that will improve our energy efficiency per 
tonne of ore processed and water recycling rates. The tailings 
waste management at our projects will also be highly efficient.
Operational and financial performance
KAZ Minerals has a strong record of operational delivery and  
I am pleased this was maintained in 2015. The East Region and 
Bozymchak reported copper cathode production of 80.7 kt, 
supported by silver, zinc and gold by-products. The East Region 
benefited from improvements made at its concentrators, raising 
recoveries and lowering reagent consumption. At Bozymchak, 
optimisation work at the concentrator was conducted in the 
fourth quarter which will enable higher output in 2016.
The East Region and Bozymchak reported a gross cash cost of 
230 USc/lb, compared to 277 USc/lb in the second half of 2014. 
The combined net cash cost was 109 USc/lb, comparable to the 
second half of 2014 as lower costs offset the impact of reduced 
by-product pricing. Weak commodity prices led to revenues of 
$665 million, $181 million below 2014. EBITDA before special 
items was $202 million. 
Major growth projects
2015 was an important year for the Group in the delivery of our 
major growth projects. Both Bozshakol and Aktogay commenced 
pre-production mining and on 1 December the Aktogay project 
started production of copper cathode from oxide ore. The 
Bozshakol project began commissioning works at its sulphide 
concentrator in December, with production of the first  
copper in concentrate from sulphide ore in February 2016. The 
commencement of copper production from two projects of this 
scale within a short timeframe is a considerable achievement and 
demonstrates the skill and determination of the Group’s 
management, employees and contractors.
Over the past few years we have assembled an internationally 
experienced operations team to manage the ramp up phase at 
Bozshakol. A timely ramp up to full capacity will deliver cash flow 
and reduce balance sheet gearing. During this growth phase the 
Group will place a high priority on maximising the benefits of the 
project to local communities in Kazakhstan through local sourcing 
and by training the next generation of employees at these 
modern facilities. 
Delivery of the main sulphide phase of the Aktogay project is our 
next major construction goal and works are currently proceeding 
on schedule to commence production in 2017. Both the 
construction and operations teams at Aktogay are benefiting 
from our experience at Bozshakol as the projects share many 
common elements of design.
“The delivery of Bozshakol has greatly 
reduced the Group’s project execution risk.”
CORPORATE VALUES
KAZ Minerals established its corporate values in 2015 as a 
restructured company. These are the principles by which we 
seek to conduct our business. They guide our decision making 
and how we monitor our performance. By upholding these 
values we will build a strong internal culture, improve 
relationships with our external stakeholders and deliver value 
to our shareholders.
Safety • Protect the health and  
wellbeing of all of our 
employees and contractors
• Protect the safety of the 
environment
Long-term efficiency • Anticipate the long-term 
consequences of today’s actions
Teamwork • Take responsibility for personal 
and team goals
• Accept compromise
• Encourage colleagues
• Appreciate different 
perspectives
Professional 
development
• Improve competency and skills
• Education and training
• Share experience and 
knowledge with colleagues
Integrity • Honesty in everything that  
we do
• Keep promises, admit mistakes
www.kazminerals.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
For more information, see pages 
64 Corporate Governance Overview
68 Governance Framework Financial position
The Group has increased its gearing during the construction of 
the two major growth projects, although the launch of Bozshakol 
at the start of 2016 and the commissioning of Aktogay in 2017  
will rapidly improve our debt metrics. The delivery of Bozshakol 
has greatly reduced the Group’s project execution risk and will 
support our financing activities in 2016. 
KAZ Minerals’ liquidity position in 2016 and 2017 has also 
benefited from the agreement reached in November 2015 
with NFC to defer the payment of $300 million in respect of 
Aktogay construction costs to 2018. The deferral of Aktogay 
payments, with no change to the project cost, demonstrates  
the strength of our relationship with NFC and continues our 
track record of securing support from our partners in China  
for KAZ Minerals’ strategically important copper projects.
OUR NUMBER ONE PRIORITY
We are creating a new culture of safety at KAZ Minerals. 
Bozshakol and Aktogay are leading our efforts to adopt 
international best practice, with intensive training for  
new joiners. At Bozshakol over 1,000 operational staff  
have been selected and trained in safe working practices, 
including safety training specific to their roles and the 
equipment they will be operating.
The health and safety policies and procedures developed  
at Bozshakol and Aktogay will be used as the benchmark  
for the rest of the Group.
Operational safety training at Bozshakol
The Group has also built a strong track record with its lenders,  
by maintaining debt service and taking a proactive approach to  
its financing which has avoided any breach of terms in its debt 
facilities. Repayment of the CDB Bozshakol and Bozymchak 
facilities commenced in 2013 with $395 million of scheduled  
debt repayments made to date, and the Group’s PXF facility 
has been reduced from $2.1 billion in 2010 to $349 million in 
2015, including two successful refinancings in 2012 and 2014.
Dividends
The Group’s dividend policy, established at the time of Listing,  
is for the Board to consider the cash generation and financing 
requirements of the business and then recommend a suitable 
dividend. This maintains flexibility which is appropriate given the 
underlying cyclicality of a commodity business. The Group has  
a strong record of payments to shareholders with returns of 
$2,095 million in ordinary dividends, buy-backs and special 
dividends since its Listing in 2005. Given the ongoing financing 
requirements of the major growth projects during their 
construction and ramp up and the uncertain economic outlook, 
the Board does not recommend a dividend in respect of the 2015 
financial year. It is, however, the Board’s intention that the Group 
resumes dividend payments in the future, following completion  
of the major growth projects.
Outlook
As we enter 2016, the steps taken in previous years to re-position 
the business are set to deliver value to our shareholders as we are 
now a low-cost producer with excellent growth prospects. Our 
long-term financing has enabled us to continue with the execution 
of our strategy through the downturn, as we develop our 
strategic assets close to China, the world’s largest consumer  
of copper. The Group’s focus is now the ramp up of Bozshakol 
and the completion of the Aktogay sulphide project. The delivery 
of these two world class projects will enable us to de-gear the 
balance sheet and complete our transformation into a low-cost 
operator of large scale, open pit copper mines in Kazakhstan.
Simon Heale
Chairman
14 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
