 10
Strategic Report
CEO’s Statement
In 2015, we sent our restaurant 
partners 96.2 million orders worth 
£1.7 billion, up 57% and 61% 
respectively on the previous year. 
Delivering this order growth to our restaurant partners  
is a key measure of JUST EAT’s success, reinforcing our 
position at the heart of the vibrant takeaway industry  
in the 13 markets in which we operate.
JUST EAT’s revenues grew 58% to £247.6 million 
(2014: £157.0 million). Underlying EBITDA increased 
by 83% to £59.7 million (2014: £32.6 million) and we 
generated £74.2 million of net operating cash flow (up 
95%). These are excellent results in a period in which we 
continued to make significant investment in our future 
growth. Results from our acquired businesses in the year, 
most notably the Australian Menulog Group which grew 
orders 81% year-on-year, have also been strong.
Strategic progress 
Our success in 2015 was driven by our continued focus 
on our consumer offering and ensuring our restaurants 
see real benefit from the channel shift to mobile and 
online ordering. We do this by delivering a continuously 
improving consumer experience and by working with 
restaurants to provide more choice and variety, giving 
independent, local businesses the tools and information 
to ensure our industry continues to develop.
Improving the consumer experience
We have made significant strides over the last 12 months, 
particularly with our Apps and mobile sites which now 
account for 66% of Group orders. We have achieved 
meaningful improvements in conversion by introducing 
‘social’ login and repeat order functionality, improving the 
algorithms and presentation of our search result pages, 
including map views of search results, expanding payment 
choices including Apple Pay and PayPal, and simplifying 
the order flow significantly. We are excited about the year 
ahead, for example using our recently introduced Customer 
Relationship Marketing (“CRM”) platform to deliver targeted, 
personalised in-App experiences, for both consumer 
and restaurant communications. With over 13.5 million 
customer reviews (31 December 2014: over 7.7 million) and 
our core platforms now processing around 2,500 orders per 
minute at peak, we have a wealth of data on our industry, 
particularly consumer preferences and behaviour that we 
are now starting to use more fully.
I would like to thank the entire  
JUST EAT team for their work  
in 2015; they have worked tirelessly  
to, yet again, deliver fantastic  
organic growth.
David Buttress 
CEO
Read more about our three 
strategic initiatives on  
Page 12
156122_JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs010-011.indd   10 06/03/2016   19:44 11
Strategic Report
Orderpad is our tablet-based order 
management platform that enables 
restaurants to run more efficiently and 
improves the visibility of deliveries 
for the consumer. At the end of the 
year we had this technology live in 711 
restaurants and will start the commercial 
roll-out of Orderpad to our restaurants 
in Q2 of 2016. Our target is to have 
one third of UK orders processed on 
an Orderpad within 12 months. 
Bringing greater choice
In 2015, we increased the number 
of contracted restaurant partners 
on our network by a net 15,800 to 
61,500 (31 December 2014: 45,700). 
An exercise to analyse restaurant and 
consumer activity identified a number 
of restaurants whose behaviour was 
detrimental to our consumers and 
as a result they are no longer on our 
platform. This, combined with external 
auditing of our UK price promise and 
the introduction of restaurant advisers 
to improve industry standards, helped 
increase new customer return rates 
and drive order frequency. We also 
believe this is helping to drive 
standards in the wider industry.
Choice in the takeaway delivery sector 
continues to expand, with over 100 
cuisine types available across the 
JUST EAT platforms. 
Driving channel shift
The takeaway industry continues to grow 
and is seeing a rapid shift to online and 
mobile ordering, led by JUST EAT.
In the majority of our countries this 
change is in its early stages, offering 
significant opportunity for future 
growth. The operational strategies 
that improve choice and consumer 
experience are key, as is our work to 
create a respected, destination brand 
in each of our markets. 
In the UK, our 2015 #minifistpump 
campaign successfully evolved into 
catchy musical/food adverts, whilst 
elsewhere we increased the local 
content of our marketing, including 
a hugely popular App-only TV advert 
in Italy which drove App downloads, 
further improving our already rapid 
Italian order growth.
As well as attracting new consumers, 
we have increased our focus on 
improving consumer retention 
and frequency. Shifting existing 
consumers to our Apps and ensuring 
new consumers start their journey on 
App is key to this and we are delighted 
that in 2015 our orders per Established 
User
1
 in the UK increased to 12.6 
(2014: 11.9).
Clear priorities
These three strategic initiatives are 
highly complementary, working both 
individually and collectively to drive 
the business. We have a clear, proven 
plan for each stage of development and 
there are no easy shortcuts to building 
great long-term businesses. 
We continued to work to build our 
clear leadership positions, and in 2015 
we supported strong organic growth 
with acquisitions in five existing 
markets, while entering Mexico and 
Australia & New Zealand by acquiring 
the local market leader.
Following the year end, we acquired 
businesses in Spain, Italy, Brazil and 
Mexico which bolster our existing, 
market-leading businesses there. The 
operational control of the Brazilian 
business has passed to IF-JE as the sale 
of the business to IF-JE is finalised.
Our people
Our people are critical to our success 
and we remain focused on maintaining 
a high-performance entrepreneurial 
culture at JUST EAT. During 2015, we 
strengthened our leadership team with 
the appointment of Barnaby Dawe and 
Lisa Hillier as Chief Marketing Officer 
and our first Chief People Officer 
respectively. Globally, the number of 
full time equivalent employees grew to 
1,868 by the end of the year (December 
2014: 1,508).
I would like to thank the entire 
JUST EAT team for their work in 
2015; they have worked tirelessly to, 
yet again, deliver fantastic organic 
growth, have continued to innovate 
and expand consumer choice whilst 
securing and integrating a number 
of important acquisitions.
Outlook 
JUST EAT is in a very strong position 
both operationally and financially, 
and we are again able to increase 
our forecasts compared with market 
consensus. For 2016, which will be a 
year of further investment for growth, 
we expect to achieve £350 million of 
Group revenues, at current exchange 
rates, generating £98-100 million of 
Underlying EBITDA.
We will continue to innovate, develop 
new products and bring greater 
value to more restaurant partners, 
whilst driving growth by further 
strengthening our brand; ultimately 
empowering more consumers to love 
their takeaway experience. 
Pages 1 to 33 of the Annual Report form 
the Strategic Report
On behalf of the Board 
David Buttress 
Chief Executive Officer 
29 February 2016
1. Established User is defined as those consumers who place three or more orders during the year.
