 Kemin Resources Plc 
Annual Report 201 5
02
Chairman’s statement
Since I last reported to you there has not been  
any significant change in the prices of our principal 
commodities. However it appears that the prices 
have stabilised, with Molybdenum trading around 
US$16,000/mt. It appears clear to both myself and 
the Board that our current strategy is the correct 
one to maximise the return to shareholders. 
In simple terms our strategy is to put major 
development of the assets on hold whilst at the 
same time putting the Company in a position  
to develop the resource once economic  
conditions improve.
In the current year we have taken steps to  
improve our understanding of our deposits 
performing infill drilling and targeting potentially 
high grade zones for testing, this has been 
complemented by laboratory testing of samples. 
Some improvements have been made to the 
infrastructure but at this stage we are conscious  
of cost control at all levels. In this regard costs 
savings were made at head office in order to 
preserve the cash balances at this time.
The work undertaken was used to underpin our 
licence renewals for both deposits, and a detailed 
programme of exploration works has formed part 
of our application to extend the licences which 
are currently with the relevant ministry. We will 
continue with further exploration and evaluation 
work during the licence renewal process and  
do not anticipate any issues in the grant of  
the licence contract extensions. 
As stated previously, the Board is of the opinion 
that both Drozhilovskoye and Smirnovskoye remain 
very attractive projects for Kemin and, because 
of their relatively high grades, low strip ratios and 
their proximity to the largest steel producer in the 
world, China, they remain outstanding investment 
opportunities. However, given the current pricing 
environment the Board will continue to refine its 
understanding of the resources and to optimise 
the strategy for bringing the commodities into 
commercial production in the medium to long 
term. It is difficult at this stage to give a definitive 
roll out plan to move the Company to the 
production phase, however the Board is  
reassessing the situation on a regular basis.
In the meantime, the Board remains focussed  
on preserving cash and maintaining our low  
cost base where possible. 
The Company will continue to benefit from 
the backing of its major shareholder, which has 
indicated its support for the current strategy  
and will provide finance as and when required.
Kanat Assaubayev 
Chairman 
6 June 2016
“In simple terms our strategy is  
to put major development of the  
assets on hold whilst at the same  
time putting the Company in a  
position to develop the resource  
once economic conditions improve.”
Exploration and evaluation
In the current year we have taken steps to 
improve our understanding of our deposits, 
performing infill drilling and targeting 
potentially high grade zones for testing.
