 Chief Executive  
Officer’s review
Alain Michaelis
Chief Executive Officer
Keller is best placed to 
gain market share both 
organically and through 
further acquisitions.
6
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7
KELLER GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
As Chief Executive for eight months of 2015,  
I’m pleased to report a year of good progress for 
Keller. I also wish to thank my predecessor, Justin 
Atkinson, for his leadership in shaping much of  
the results we are able to report.
Financial performance in the year has been good, 
but I have been similarly encouraged by progress 
in other areas reflecting the improving health of 
the Company on a number of fronts. 
We executed an impressive array of projects 
around the world for our customers and can 
point to improving customer focus and 
operational discipline.
We have continued to evolve the organisation, 
adding some significant talent to the Group and 
strengthening our leadership team.
We have also taken some good strategic steps, 
notably with two important acquisitions, Bencor 
in the US and Austral in Australia. 
With regard to safety we can report mixed news 
– we have continued to improve our safety 
performance around the world and our accident 
frequency rate has been cut by over two-thirds in 
three years, which is excellent. However, this was 
sadly offset by two fatalities in Malaysia due to a 
sinkhole accident in February 2015. 
We remain in an attractive market and have 
many industry-leading advantages. We also have 
a very healthy list of opportunities to enhance the 
success of the Group. We are taking a significant 
step forward in connecting the Company more 
deliberately and instilling a stronger common 
ethos and operating model. I am confident this 
will bring better knowledge sharing and higher 
performance for our customers, employees 
and shareholders.
Our strategy 
Growth
We will continue to grow. We estimate the 
global ground engineering market to be worth 
US$50bn, so our global market share is 5%. Even 
if we consider our addressable market share, this 
figure only rises to 10%. This is a fragmented 
industry which we believe will continue to 
consolidate. As the leading independent player 
and with a strong balance sheet, Keller is best 
placed to gain market share both organically 
and through further acquisitions.
Strong, customer-focused businesses
To ensure we build strong, local relationships and 
stay responsive and competitive in local markets, 
we are organised by business unit. These are fully 
capable Profit and Loss units with distinct market 
strategies and full operational capabilities. Clearly 
the health of the Group as a whole relies on these 
business units continuing to evolve and strengthen. 
We ensure this through a robust management 
framework, functional expertise and Group-wide 
benchmarking. Typical revenue for a business unit 
is £40m to £100m and we currently have 22 
around the world. 
Leveraging scale and expertise
We also aim to be stronger than the sum of the 
individual business units by sensibly leveraging the 
scale of our Group. Keller’s brand and reputation is 
strong across the globe and customers are attracted 
to the depth of knowledge, professionalism and 
financial security we offer. Internally, where we 
find ‘economies of scale’ or ‘economies of skill’, 
we leverage the opportunity across multiple 
business units. Good examples are shared back 
office functions or a common legal team across 
a Division. We also believe we have good 
opportunities to purchase direct and indirect 
material across multiple business units. 
Engineering and Operations
Engineering and Operations are the core of Keller. 
We are very active in design of solutions with 
our customers (for 45% of our revenue) where 
we are able to reduce content and cost of the 
project. This is a clear differentiator and we aim 
to nurture this capability.
In areas of construct only, operational efficiency  
is key and we have a number of business units 
who perform at excellent levels. Good market 
share is important so that efficiencies, and 
therefore higher margins, can be maintained.  
We can share information and improve 
productivity further. Lean techniques from 
other industries are applicable to Keller given 
the repetitive nature of much of our operations. 
We have set up formal Global Product Teams in 
2015 to better share and leverage knowledge on 
specific products, e.g. Grouting or Bored Piling. 
We are confident that these will be a strong 
driver of improvement. 
We continue to invest in new facilities and 
equipment. In Renchen, where Keller in Germany 
started 155 years ago, we have added a new 
manufacturing hall to enable us to raise output 
and build the vibro and grouting machines of the 
future. We also made significant capital investments 
well above depreciation rates in 2015.
 
People
I would like to echo the Chairman’s thanks to  
the people of Keller. I have been very impressed 
by the level of loyalty and expertise around the 
Group. Although all companies will say people 
are their foundation, this is doubly important 
to Keller given the high level of specific ground 
engineering expertise required, coupled with 
a very fragmented geographic and project 
structure. We rely on our project teams to 
perform far from their base. Therefore skills  
and training, supported by practical procedures 
and technological support, are vital and we will 
continue to invest in this domain. 
We also made changes at the Executive 
Committee level in 2015. We hired three new 
executives: Thorsten Holl – President EMEA, 
Serge Zimmerlin – Human Resources Director 
and Joe Hubback – Strategy Director. This is a 
significant influx of talent to the Group. We also 
announced that Venu Raju would succeed 
Wolfgang Sondermann, who is retiring after a 
distinguished Keller career, as Engineering and 
Operations Director in the fourth quarter of 2016.
We combined two Divisions to form Asia Pacific 
(APAC) under the leadership of Mark Kliner. 
This has a number of natural advantages – scale 
effects, sharing relative strengths on products, 
reducing costs and an increased ability to grow 
in Asia. The integration is progressing well.
Keller is well placed, and I am confident this 
strategy will fulfil our goal of being the best 
geotechnical solutions company in the world.
Operating review
Conditions in our major markets
In the US, expenditure on construction increased 
significantly for the fourth consecutive year, with 
good growth in most segments of the market. 
Private non-residential construction grew by 12%, 
whilst in the residential market housing starts 
were up 11% year on year, with strong growth 
in both single-family and multi-family homes. 
Growth in public expenditure on construction 
continued, up 6% on 2014. 
In Canada, construction activity in the resources 
markets remains very subdued although demand 
in the commercial and infrastructure segments 
fared somewhat better. 
Conditions in our European markets as a whole 
remain mixed, with Southern Europe, in 
particular, remaining challenging. There are some 
positive signs in the central European markets of 
Germany, Poland and Austria, as well as in the UK. 
Elsewhere, there are good opportunities in the 
Middle East where our construction markets have 
been relatively unaffected by the low oil price. 
The construction market in South Africa is 
slowing and whilst there are some exciting 
opportunities elsewhere in Africa, a number are 
in the oil and gas sector and their timing is 
therefore uncertain. Globally, Keller’s direct 
exposure to oil and gas projects was 6% of 
revenue in 2015.
 
Construction expenditure in the Group’s Asian 
markets remains varied. In India we are continuing 
to see signs of increasing business confidence, but 
the Singapore and Malaysian markets are 
relatively quiet. 
In Australia, construction expenditure across 
most segments has been subdued for some  
time and is showing few signs of improving.  
An exception is the near-shore marine segment 
where there remain a number of projects to 
upgrade or expand ports and harbours.
Alain Michaelis
Chief Executive Officer
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
