 Prototype desert creature 
by Lakshya Digital
Chief Executive’s Review
Another year of  
good progress
2015 saw another year of good progress for Keywords, in which 
the Group delivered healthy like for like growth, supplemented  
by selective acquisitions which have further expanded our range 
of services and extended our geographical reach. 
Strong like for like growth of 20% was driven by 
our art creation, localisation and audio service lines 
in particular. In addition, we continued to deliver on 
our industry consolidation strategy by acquiring 
four companies during 2015 and a further two 
since the year end. These acquisitions have 
expanded our service offering into player support 
and community management services to support 
games in live operations and have extended our 
reach geographically to Mexico and the Philippines. 
Additionally, our acquisitions of Liquid Development 
and Mindwalk added further scale to our activities 
in the buoyant art creation market which we 
entered in 2014 with the acquisition of Lakshya.
We have also made good progress on the 
integration of the acquisitions we made in 2014 
and in 2015. We have put in place a management 
structure which combines global management to 
drive and coordinate the six service lines that now 
make up Keywords Studios with regional and 
country management to ensure the appropriate 
local support is in place.
Results Overview
Including the effect of acquisitions, the  
Group’s revenues increased by 55% to €58.0m 
(2014: €37 .3m) during the period, reflecting 
growth across all lines of business as outlined in 
the Operational Review section from page 12.  
In order to provide a better measure of organic 
revenue growth in the businesses that Keywords 
now owns, we are also providing like for like 
revenue growth, which provides a 2014 
comparative as if all of the 2015 acquisitions had 
been owned for the same period in 2014 as they 
have been in 2015. On this measure, organic 
growth was approximately 20% in 2015.
10 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC Batman from Batman: 
Arkham Knight
37.6%
Gross profit margins
Gross profit margins increased to 37 .6% 
(201 4: 34.0%) reflecting a combination of the 
increase in our higher margin art creation services  
as a proportion of the revenue mix, and the 
maintenance or increase of our margins in the  
other service lines.
The Group reported adjusted profit before tax 
(before share option charges, amortisation of 
intangible assets, costs of acquisition and 
integration, and foreign currency movements)  
for 2015 of €8.0m (2014: €5.1m). Statutory profit 
before tax for the period was €5.1m (2014: €3.4m).
The Group’s effective tax rate has decreased  
as we make better use of our brands, operating 
models and tools from our Dublin operational 
headquarters in support of our business around 
the world, much of which is in higher tax rate 
jurisdictions including Canada, the US, Japan, India 
and Italy. The Group’s effective tax rate based  
on the KWS measure of profit before taxation  
in the period (as set out on page 23) was 22.9% 
(2014: 24.0%).
Basic earnings per share for the year, before 
one-time costs of acquisitions and integration, 
share option charges, amortisation of intangibles, 
and foreign exchange movements, was 12.71c 
compared with 8.54c for 2014. After these items, 
the basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations was 6.98c (2014: 4.94c).
 “The Group’s revenues increased  
by 55% to €58.0m (2014: €37 .3m) 
during the period, reflecting growth 
across all lines of business.”
11 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report II III 2014 2015
€0.6m
€8.2m
2014 2015
€17.1m
€12.0m
Operational Review
Having acquired Alchemic Dream in January 2015 
we effectively began the year with six service 
lines – two more than at the start of 2014. All  
six service lines grew like for like sales during  
the year and four were positively impacted by 
acquisitions. A segmentation of the Group’s 
revenues by service line is provided in the  
Financial and Operating Review.
Art Creation
Our higher margin, art creation services revenue 
grew to €8.2m (2014: €0.6m), reflecting a full  
year contribution in 2015 from Lakshya, which 
had been acquired in October 2014, and Liquid 
Development’s contribution following its 
acquisition in August 2015. Importantly, the 
combined art creation businesses have delivered 
like for like growth of approximately 70% year  
on year, reflecting the high market demand for  
art services and our investment in talent to 
respond to this opportunity. This investment 
helped Lakshya to almost double its revenues  
year on year supported by the opening of a 
production studio in Seattle in May 2015 and  
the expansion of its art team in India by over  
100 artists during 2015.
The acquisition of Liquid Development in August 
2015 gave the Group further scale, bringing with it 
additional capabilities in video game art production 
as it works for game developers involved in 
producing console, online, PC, mobile and console 
games as well as interactive experiences for theme 
parks. Liquid Development and Lakshya are starting 
to work well together and we remain encouraged 
by their performance and growth plans.
The objective for our art creation services line is to 
grow capacity to meet demand, whilst maintaining 
our reputation for quality and reliability of delivery 
to our customers’ timescales. In addition, we aim to 
extend our capabilities to areas such as concept 
art (taking us right to the very start of the game 
development cycle) and visual special effects. 
The acquisition of Mindwalk Studios in Beijing 
which was announced after the year end and is 
dependent on the fulfilment of certain acquisition 
related conditions, will add further capacity both 
in its existing 150 artists and in its access to the 
wider talent pool of game artists in China.
Localisation
Localisation activities, including contributions 
from Reverb, Alchemic Dream and Kite Team,  
which were acquired in the year, increased 
revenues by approximately 43%, to €17 .1m  
(2014: €12.0m) and accounted for approximately 
30% of Group revenue.
A Mordesh from Wildstar
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Localisation services
€17.1m
Art creation services
€8.2m
12 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC 2014 2015
€6.5m
€5.0m
 “All six service lines grew like for like sales during the  
year and four were positively impacted by acquisitions.”
With an output of some 90 million translated words 
in 2015, our games localisation business is now the 
largest specialist games business in the world and 
we continue to pursue growth opportunities in 
what remains a highly fragmented market. A 
resolute focus on quality, on-time delivery and cost 
effectiveness helped see this service grow its like 
for like revenues by approximately 26% aided by 
strong volume growth of existing clients and new 
clients wins.
Functional Testing
Our functional testing service, which accounted  
for approximately 11% of Group revenue in 2015, 
increased revenues by approximately 30% to 
€6.5m (2014: €5.0m). On a like for like basis, 
revenues grew by approximately 17%.
Gross margins also improved, a testament to 
Keywords’ ability to manage large multi-month 
testing projects alongside projects of only a few 
days, whilst ensuring high levels of staff utilisation 
through its flexible staffing model.
Localisation Testing
Our localisation testing operations, which 
accounted for 26% of Group revenue in 2015, 
grew by a relatively modest 2% to €15.0m  
(2014: €14.7m). 
OUR BUSINESSES
€8.2m
Art creation services 
revenue
€17.1m
Localisation activities 
revenues
Functional testing
€6.5m
13 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report II III 2014 2015
€14.7m
€15.0m
2014 2015
€5.1m
€7.2m
2014 2015
€0.0m
€3.9m
The performance of localisation testing reflects 
the phasing of activity from certain key clients 
which had fewer titles in 2015 compared to 2014. 
Those clients are expected to return to higher 
levels of activity in 2016 as they increase their 
pipeline of titles to be released this year.
Audio
Our audio business increased revenues by 
approximately 41% to €7 .2m (2014: €5.1m), 
including contributions from Reverb and Kite  
Team which were acquired in January and July 
respectively. On a like for like basis, revenues in  
our audio service line grew by approximately 23%.
Providing single language Brazilian Portuguese, 
Latin American Spanish and Iberian Spanish audio 
recording and production services, Reverb and Kite 
Team have won tenders from game publishers 
who source each language separately. Publishers 
who adopt a multi-lingual approach use the 
services of our Binari Sonori business which has 
proven expertise gained over many years in 
managing simultaneous production of audio 
voiceover recordings in 20 or more languages.
Customer Support
In January 2015 we acquired Alchemic Dream 
which provided us with an entry point to providing 
customer support services. This new customer 
support business achieved revenues of €3.9m 
(2014: €nil), accounting for approximately 7% of 
Group revenues and a 10% increase on a like for 
like basis.
Alchemic Dream uses a network of multi-lingual 
agents working remotely but connected through 
technology platforms to deliver its customer 
support services. We have begun to build upon this 
capability by utilising our existing international 
production facilities and talent pool of over 1,000 
employees, enabling us to provide customer 
support and community management teams out 
of our studios in Tokyo, Singapore, India, Dublin  
and Montreal. We believe it will be an advantage  
to both clients and users for Keywords’ teams,  
who have already garnered deep knowledge of  
all aspects of the game through their involvement 
in the production and launch phases of a game,  
to provide ongoing live operational support to 
those games. 
We anticipate that this approach will support good, 
profitable growth in this service line in future years.
Delivering Our Strategy
We have made strong progress in delivering on  
our strategy to grow Keywords Studios both 
organically and by acquisition to extend the 
Group’s client base, service lines and geographical 
penetration, where the Group can use its existing 
expertise, multi-service platform, scale and global 
reach to generate synergies in a highly fragmented 
games services industry. We are particularly 
pleased to have both established a substantial 
capability in the higher margin, art creation 
services, which means that we are now working 
with clients at an earlier stage in the game 
development cycle, and that we now have a much 
better balanced business across the six service 
lines. The Board believes that there is a clear 
opportunity for Keywords to extend its existing 
relationships with many of the major games 
companies both through providing additional 
services to existing customers and through 
providing dedicated outsourced services.
In addition, we believe that content in its many 
forms is becoming more interactive and, as 
highlighted at the time of the IPO, we continue to 
maintain a watching brief on some closely adjacent 
markets to that of video games in the expectation 
that at some point our expertise in what is the 
most interactive form of content, video games, will 
become highly relevant to other industries such as 
e-learning, film and television and online gambling.
People
Increasingly, we see evidence of the Group 
becoming a home for top talent in our industry. 
Rather than chase the production of game after 
game from development studio to development 
studio, talented artists, producers, project 
managers and testers can work at Keywords where 
the games come to them. In addition to externally 
recruited management and production talent, we 
continue to develop our people internally across all 
our businesses and we have benefited greatly from 
some strong additions to our senior leadership 
team following the acquisitions we have made.  
The Group employed an average of 1,273 people 
in 2015 (2014: 978).
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Audio/voiceover services
€7.2m
Customer support
€3.9m
Localisation testing
€15.0m
€15.0m
Localisation testing 
operations revenues
14 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC Outlook
Trading in the first two months of the current 
financial year has been in line with the Board’s 
expectations. As expected, 2015 was the first, 
solid, post transition year following the launch  
of the new Xbox and PlayStation platforms in 
November 2013. With 2016 being the year in 
which Virtual Reality is launched by a number  
of headset providers including Oculus, Sony and 
Valve, we anticipate that 2016 will bring further 
strength in the console sector while our mobile, 
social and online games content related business 
should continue to perform strongly.
High demand for our art outsourcing services at 
Liquid Development, Lakshya and now Mindwalk  
is expected in 2016 and, as in 2015, we anticipate 
good organic growth from this service line which 
we plan to build upon through further selective 
acquisition opportunities. The establishment of  
an art studio in Seattle in 2015 is starting to bear 
fruit as we benefit from proximity to a number of 
clients in the area, proving the model of having 
lead artists and art managers close to the client 
while undertaking the majority of the production 
in our studios in India.
Our audio service line, which is currently 
under-weight compared to the other services in 
the Group, is targeted for expansion. In particular, 
we are promoting our single language capabilities 
for Italian, Spanish, Latin American Spanish and 
Brazilian Portuguese, where we have in territory 
recording studios, and for Arabic, where we have 
become a go to provider for this complex but fast 
growing language. We also have a pipeline of 
potential acquisitions in this area.
We expect to make continued good progress during 
2016, as we realise the full year benefits of our 
2015 acquisitions and as they are integrated further. 
By capitalising on the synergies across the group, 
from sharing access to our talented people and 
production facilities, to leveraging our established 
client relationships, global sales force and marketing 
spend across all service lines, we anticipate driving 
continued strong organic growth, complemented by 
further selective acquisitions.
Andrew Day
Group Chief Executive Officer
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
€7.2m
 Audio business revenues
15 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report II III ART CREATION IN FOCUS
Outsourced art services to the video games industry is a key area for expansion for  
Keywords as it is a buoyant, large and highly fragmented market which also provides  
Keywords with earlier involvement in the development cycle of video games titles.
Art creation is the design and rendering of  
all video game visuals (‘art assets’ such as 
characters, clothing, vehicles, landscapes, 
cityscapes). Computer graphics have developed 
enormously in the past 20 years. All of the art 
in a video game is hand-crafted, with the 
characters and other art assets becoming more 
sophisticated and detailed. The increased 
capabilities of games platforms, such as the 
latest generation of consoles, has materially 
increased the time required to design and 
render a core character. For example an art 
asset that used to take approximately 20 man 
days on the Xbox 360, may now take 40 days  
for the Xbox One.
In October 2014, Keywords Studios acquired 
Lakshya Digital, a leading provider of 
outsourced art services for the video games 
industry internationally which provided the 
company with an entry point into this fast 
growing market.
In August 2015, Keywords expanded its art 
creation offering with the acquisition of Liquid 
Development. We have also expanded our art 
creation team during 2015, hiring more than 
100 additional artists in India and the US to 
support strong organic growth. This together 
with the acquisitions resulted in growth of 70% 
in revenue.
The acquisition in March 2016 of Mindwalk 
Studios in Beijing did not only deepen our 
involvement in this field, but has given us  
a meaningful base in China from which to 
further expand our art creation activities as 
well as our other service lines.
The higher margin art creation offering 
accounted for approximately 20% of Group 
revenue on an annualised basis at the end  
of 2015.
STRATEGY IN ACTION
EXTENDING OUR SERVICES 
70%
Like for like growth  
year on year
Storm Kestrel from Firefall
Chief Executive’s Review continued
16 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC Dropshift from Firefall
STRATEGY IN ACTION
OUTSOURCING
Year on year we have expanded the number of services 
we provide to each of our clients. The number of clients 
now using three or more services grew by 70% to 51  
clients in 2015.
In 2015 we expanded our 
relationship with two existing 
clients adding dedicated, managed 
services teams for localisation, 
localisation testing and community 
management tasks both based out 
of our Dublin studio.
One of the clients is a leading 
mobile games developer/publisher 
and the other develops and 
operates one of the world’s leading 
online games. We are seeing 
increased opportunities for such 
managed services and single 
sourced arrangement given our 
financial solidity, our operational 
robustness thanks to multi-site, 
multi-country duplication of 
capabilities, and being seen as 
having some of the best talent  
in the industry.
In March 2016, we took over  
the live operations support team 
from French publisher, Ankama 
SAS. Based in the Philippines,  
this team provides a range of 
support services including fraud 
management, customer support, 
testing, ‘bot hunting’ (seeking  
out and neutralising automated 
programs that have been 
introduced into the game against 
the rules), and promotions 
management for Ankama’s games 
including Dofus, Wakfu and Tactile 
Wars in English. We are investing  
in new, larger premises in Manila 
and will be expanding this team  
to provide similar services to 
additional game clients.
DEVELOPING CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS AND OUTSOURCING
70%
Increase in number  
of clients using three 
or more Keywords 
services since 2014
17 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report II III Jeep design by Liquid Development
Chief Executive’s Review continued
STRATEGY IN ACTION
GEOGRAPHICAL GROWTH
GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT
In order to best serve its video game developer and 
publisher clients and to access specific talent pools, the 
Group has continued to expand geographically and now 
has 19 (2014: 14) studios in four continents providing 
full, integrated video games services to both local and 
global clients.
Keywords’ studios are strategically 
located to provide services to key 
gaming clusters in locations such 
as Tokyo, Singapore, Montreal, 
Seattle, Los Angeles and London. 
Since the beginning of 2015 we 
have expanded into new locations 
including Mexico City, Beijing, 
Shanghai, Manila and Madrid.
We have also leveraged our studio 
locations by housing a newly 
established art creation operation 
for Lakshya together with our 
existing localisation testing 
operations in Seattle in a new 
facility. Separately we have seeded 
our customer support operations 
into our studios in Rio de Janeiro, 
Tokyo, Montreal, Singapore, Dublin 
and New Delhi.
Having added Manila to our 
network of studios in March this 
year we intend to expand our 
operations in the Philippines during 
2016, as it is an important, low 
cost, English proficient location 
ideally suited to services such as 
customer support and games 
operations management.
China continues to present an 
exciting opportunity for the Group. 
It is thought to have surpassed the 
US as the largest market for games 
and is slowly liberalising. In 
addition to the acquisition of 
Mindwalk described on page 19, 
we established a wholly owned 
foreign enterprise and an initial 
presence in Shanghai during the 
year which, in addition to 
undertaking business development 
and corporate development 
activities for the Group, is now 
starting to deliver localisation 
services directly from Shanghai.
19
Global studios,  
up from 14  
in 2014
18 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC STRATEGY IN ACTION
SELECTIVE ACQUISITIONS
ACQUISITIONS
While we are particularly pleased with our organic 
growth, Keywords has continued to take advantage of 
the highly fragmented markets for video games services. 
We have acquired a further six 
businesses since the beginning  
of 2015 to take the total to ten 
acquisitions since listing on AIM  
in July 2013, and we are 
encouraged by the way in which 
the acquired businesses have  
been welcomed into the Group  
and integrated through the 
adoption of common systems, 
reporting formats, sales and 
marketing. The globally managed 
service line based organisation 
structure implemented in 2015 
further facilitates this integration 
process and provides management 
bandwidth for conducting and 
integrating further acquisitions.
In January 2015, Alchemic Dream, 
which provided us with an entry 
point into customer support and 
community management services, 
and Reverb, which provides 
localisation and audio for Brazilian 
Portuguese, were welcomed into 
the Group. In July we acquired 50% 
of Kite Team (localisation and audio 
for Spanish, Latin American Spanish 
and Brazilian Portuguese) and,  
in August, Portland, Oregon art 
creation services business Liquid 
Development joined the stable.
We have been pleased with the 
progress made with integrating 
the acquired businesses. The 
businesses have performed well  
as part of the Group and we have 
been very encouraged by the 
positive responses from customers 
to the acquisitions.
Since the year end we have 
acquired Ankama Asia Pte Ltd in  
a strategic outsourcing deal which 
provides the Group with a platform 
in Manila from which to further 
develop our customer services 
business with the benefit of a four 
year contract with Ankama SAS.  
In addition, we have acquired 
Mindwalk Studios, for a total 
consideration of $5.5 million, which 
provides outsourced art creation 
services to the video games 
industry internationally from its 
base in Beijing, giving us both 
additional art creation capacity  
and a strong platform from which 
to grow in China. 
We expect acquisition activity  
to be a feature of the business  
for the foreseeable future as the 
Company takes advantage of its 
leadership position in the market 
and continues to consolidate 
carefully selected, earnings 
accretive businesses. We continue 
to review a healthy pipeline of 
acquisition opportunities which fall 
within our stated strategic goals 
and could provide the Group with 
complementary services, increased 
scale in our existing activities or 
further geographic penetration.
6
Businesses acquired 
since the beginning  
of 2015
19 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report II III
