 Strategic report
“ In 2015, we made positive progress  
and customer traction with continued 
increases in Digital and UK Retail.  
We saw customers responding well  
to our products, our value and recently 
launched multi-channel offer.”
Overview
After a short and intense internal review, it was clear that we 
needed to change the way we ran the business, build scale, 
respond faster to the customer and create a sense of urgency 
across the business.
In July, we announced an aggressive three year investment 
programme to build our UK Retail, Digital and Australian 
recreational customer base. The plan is based on restoring 
a culture of sporting passion and pride in what we do at 
Ladbrokes and in ensuring that the recreational customer 
and sports betting is front and centre in all that we do. 
The plan was not without challenges and came at a cost as 
we sought to address urgently the need to invest more heavily 
in the business, with an inevitable and significant reduction in 
our profit expectations and cutting the dividend to finance our 
strategy for growth.
The fall in operating profit in 2015 highlights the reality of our 
situation, the significant burden of c.£50m increased tax and 
regulation on our industry and the financial impact of delivering 
the plan. 
It is pleasing that after two quarters of execution of our plan, 
we can report progress. We take encouragement that the 
customer metrics and revenue growth in H2 demonstrate a good 
response from our customers to our focus on people, product 
and promotions and reflect positively on some of the cultural 
and operational changes that have taken place. The challenge for 
Ladbrokes is to build on this start and remain intensely focused on 
reaching or exceeding the 2017 financial targets we set out in July.
12 ladbrokesplc.com
Chief Executive’s review The year ended with Group operating profit of £80.6m
(1)
, which 
was slightly ahead of expectations with better results in UK 
Retail in Q4 and somewhat stronger operational trends being 
the key drivers to this performance.
Within all our key strategy areas we saw improved performance 
in the second half, helping full year Group net revenue grow 
3.2% year on year (excluding High Rollers) against a period 
which included the 2014 World Cup. 
UK Retail in particular performed strongly and we saw an 
increasing contribution from our market leading Self Serving 
Betting Terminal (SSBT) estate and encouraging H2 OTC 
staking trends. Machines, where our strategy is to grow lower 
staking play through the regular introduction of new slots based 
games, also performed well. 
In Digital, the Point of Consumption (POC) tax, the increased 
H2 marketing investment required to implement our strategy 
and the loss we recorded from HVCs in Q1 contributed to a 
significant decline in profitability. However, while the full year 
reflected issues both within and outside of our control, we were 
encouraged by the exit trends we saw under the new strategy 
with net revenue growth in Q4 at 31.4% and Ladbrokes.com net 
revenue up 28.4%. 
Australia has been one of our strongest performing businesses 
and, despite strong competition in this market, it delivered net 
revenue up 70.9% in the year and up 76.3% in Q4 on local 
currency basis, somewhat ahead of our expectations in July. 
Strategy implementation
Following the announcement of our new strategy, the Group 
has focused on implementing its plan to grow recreational scale 
across UK Retail, Ladbrokes.com and Australia. This growth is 
being driven by increasing direct and brand marketing expenditure; 
through offering focused value propositions to our customers; 
and through the continuous delivery of innovative products, 
including, importantly, multi-channel products and services. 
UK Retail
In UK Retail, we have sought to increase our appeal to a wider 
recreational customer base through a focus on people, product 
and promotions. 
We have begun to engage our people on a journey that puts 
sports betting and sports expertise back at the heart of our 
offer. We have rolled out tablets to every shop to help promote 
better communication, training and product knowledge.  
We also established a retail experience programme to promote 
greater service standards in our retail estate and have recently 
begun the process to identify sports experts in every 
marketplace to help create the strongest sports betting 
proposition on the High Street. 
Our focus has largely been on attracting the recreational football 
customer and we have invested heavily in marketing and 
sponsorships that support this aim. We have also advertised 
more in key media across the UK with 26% year on year 
increases in red top and TV media. Staking for the 2015/16 
football season was up an encouraging 13.2% at the year 
end with gross win up 28.6% as the English premier league 
unpredictability contributed to a strong finish to the year. 
Our product initiatives have been based around two key 
innovations in our offer, SSBTs and multi-channel. 
We took the decision to create the UK’s largest SSBT estate, 
based on the growing customer interest we had seen in the 
existing offer. We successfully rolled out over 3,500 new  
SSBTs in H2 to complement our existing offer and now have  
at least one in every shop with some of our busier shops, as 
determined by our local management teams, hosting up to 
eight terminals.
The range of betting opportunities and markets held on each 
terminal creates the ability for the customer to create their own 
multiple bets across a multitude of sports and international 
territories from the convenience of the UK High Street.  
The performance of the SSBT product has been strong, 
growing from just 3% of OTC staking in Q4 2014 to over 8%  
at the end of 2015. They have proved popular in growing our 
appeal with customers in the 18-35 year old segment whose 
primary interest is in football and over 75% of SSBT staking is 
on football. In addition, they allow customers to bet in-play 
thereby aligning our retail offer with services our digital 
customers already enjoy, and while in play accounts for over 
30% of SSBT staking in Q4, we see this as an opportunity for 
further development. With the full roll out now complete, our 
attention has turned to optimising their performance through 
promotion of the product and enhancing the proposition.  
This will help them appeal to a wider range of customers as  
well as developing our in play business and driving more 
multiple bets.
Late in Q2 we launched our multi-channel (One Ladbrokes) 
offer following successful regional trials to attract the 
recreational customer and specifically targeted our launch 
to coincide with the football season. We are focused on 
growing digital actives through the combination of digital 
and OTC oriented technology products. 
The One Ladbrokes appeal is focused on a product driven 
strategy and already customers can take advantage of products 
such as retail cash out, bet status trackers, my Accas, live 
scoreboards and the ability to transfer winnings online. These 
facilities have proved incredibly popular with over one million bet 
tracker checks by the year end. The product appeals typically 
to the younger recreational customer, 56% of signs ups are 
under 35, and so far we have seen the value of these customers 
is greater than a pure Ladbrokes.com only customer. All selling 
of the multi-channel offer has been via our High Street shop 
estate utilising a retail distribution network of over 2,000 shops. 
GROWTH
(2)
 
IN MOBILE SPORTSBOOK
+69.4% 
INCREASE
IN OTC FOOTBALL STAKING
 +7.8% (in H2)
(1) Excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
(2) Ladbrokes.com
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Strategic report
We have allied market leading product with a cost effective 
cash incentive to our retail colleagues to recruit customers. 
I have been delighted by the response of our retail teams 
to our multi-channel offer and they have been central to 
us recruiting over 35,000 new digital actives by year end. 
Customer recruitment continues to progress well. We believe 
that this combination can continue to grow our multi-channel 
customer base further, a view backed up by the first few weeks 
of 2016 and further re-enforces our view that the retail estate 
still has a very active role in the modern High Street. 
We continue to see the benefit of investing some margin to 
deliver value offers to our customers in key sports through 
promotions such as Best Odds Guaranteed and Happy Hour 
or by products such as Top Prices Top Teams. Our colleagues 
tell us that they have driven the appeal of our retail offer as 
well as increased the belief of our own retail teams in our 
competitive proposition. It perhaps should not be a surprise 
that with this confidence in our people, the trends on our OTC 
business have improved. 
Finally we have seen continued strong performance in our 
machine product. The key driver in this growth has been 
through increased play on lower stake slot games. We have 
grown the percentage of gross win from slots from 33% in 
Q4 2014 to 40% in Q4 2015. This has been a key part of our 
machine strategy as we move away from higher stake content 
and focus on lower value staking games. We launched 27 new 
slot games in the year compared to just five casino B2 games. 
Within our machine performance we also complied with all the 
new DCMS regulations on £50+ staking which saw a 68% 
reduction in that form of play.
Having prioritised establishing the largest SSBT estate in the 
UK in H2 2015, we are beginning to invest the £25-30m capital 
investment programme we set out in July across the UK Retail 
estate. We expect to spend up to £11m in 2016 improving the 
core fabric of our estate where the competitive position or local 
market is expected to deliver an incremental return.
Digital
In Ladbrokes.com, where we had already established a strong 
sports betting and gaming product, we launched our new 
desktop product on the Mobenga platform, introduced cash 
out options across all sports betting platforms and implemented 
the next level of IMS creating a competitive single wallet offer 
for customers.
We continued to focus on increasing the quality of content 
available to customers on our key digital products including live 
scoreboards and increased the ease of access to live streamed 
sporting events. However, as announced in July, in the second 
half of the year we set about to ensure that more people were 
aware of our product and the significant journey of improvement 
it had been on. As planned, we increased our marketing 
intensity to over 30% of net revenue, with a focus on pay per 
click and affiliate channels. While the overall profit performance 
of Ladbrokes.com reflects the impact of increased taxation and 
marketing and product investment, the customer trend data as 
we exited the year gives cause for encouragement and we will 
continue to invest heavily in marketing as we approach the 
European Football championships in June 2016.
Sportsbook has now seen eight consecutive quarters of staking 
growth and despite coming up against a tough prior year 
comparative, it ended the year up 44% in Q4. Outside of the 
Grand National, Boxing Day 2015 saw the highest ever number 
of actives, 87,000 playing on our sportsbook, crucially showing 
that while new tablets, laptops and phones were unwrapped on 
Christmas day, our applications were willingly transferred by the 
customer. In the few weeks since the start of the new financial 
year, this number looks increasingly within reach for a normal 
Saturday. The customer preference to access products from 
mobile devices continued in the year and grew from 54% of 
our sportsbook stakes in 2014 to 71% at year end. 
While product innovation has driven the sportsbook 
performance, we have seen the ability to cross sell to Gaming 
enhanced by the delivery of the IMS single wallet functionality 
in the year. 
In Gaming we delivered our fifth consecutive quarter of growth 
in Q4, with customers responding well to weekly releases of 
new games, a new Casino website and the introduction of 
Live Dealer on all mobile platforms.
As with sportsbook, the attraction of mobile play to the 
customer continues and it now accounts for 52% of gaming 
play, up from 34% in 2014.
I called Australia one of the hidden jewels in the Ladbrokes 
crown in July. With stakes up 63%, actives up 65% and net 
revenue up 71% (local currency) it has continued to go from 
strength to strength. The strategy in Australia is to take the 
team’s dedication to innovative products to build a strong 
customer base backed by a strong investment in brand 
awareness.
In the year, the business has launched partial cash out offers 
across all markets. It has also started to drive multi-channel 
growth through the innovative ‘Cash In’ feature that allows 
customers to instantly deposit money into their Ladbrokes 
account at over 1,000 participating newsagents across 
Australia. While the performance of the business has been 
encouraging across the board, we are particularly encouraged 
by how quickly the brand has grown reaching number three in 
the year among corporate bookmakers from a standing start 
in 2013. To keep up this momentum Ladbrokes Australia has 
become the official corporate bookmaker for the Melbourne 
AUSTRALIA
STAKING INCREASE 2015
(3) 
+62.9% 
(3) Local currency
14 ladbrokesplc.com
Chief Executive’s review continued Racing Club from 1 January 2016 with Sandown Racecourse 
being renamed Ladbrokes Park and Ladbrokes will be official 
sponsor for key races including the Ladbrokes Caulfield Classic 
and Ladbrokes Caulfield Stakes. 
European Retail
In Belgium and Spain we are continuing our existing strategies 
for growth, building on leading retail positions to develop a 
multi-channel offer. 
Belgium retail performance has been good with non-horse 
sports betting, evening openings and some investment in our 
estate fabric helping offset horse racing decline. The retail 
highlight has been our product innovation in introducing SSBTs 
and utilising virtual sports on them. Although there is some 
regulatory uncertainty over virtual sports betting in Belgium, 
we continue to remain positive on the potential for SSBTs in 
Belgium retail.
In Spain, through our joint venture, we continue to expand into 
new territories and saw encouraging profit growth in the more 
established regions such as Madrid and Aragon. In Catalunya 
we have achieved the number one market position in retail and 
saw over 200% growth in net revenue in the year. While our 
strategy of continuous expansion does come at a continued 
small operating loss, progress in established territories remains 
encouraging for the longer-term success of the business. We 
also took on the role as the official betting partner to La Liga 
and the raised Sportium brand profile has assisted an 
encouraging digital performance.
In early Q2, we took the decision to place our Republic of 
Ireland business into Examinership in order to establish a more 
viable and competitive business. We exited the process in July 
with a reduced estate and a reduction in workforce achieved 
almost entirely through a voluntary redundancy programme. 
The steps we took allied to a more visibly promotion led 
business strategy has seen the Republic return to good staking 
growth and profitability in the second half of 2015. Multi-channel 
represents an exciting opportunity for Ireland and we used our 
successful experience of the UK launch to roll out the product 
in January 2016.
Regulation and Taxation Developments
2015 showed the impact regulation and taxation can have on 
our business. The increases in MGD and the introduction of 
POC tax account for c.£50million reduction in our full year 
operating profit.
We also introduced new DCMS regulations around the playing 
of B2 games at stakes above £50 in April. This had a significant 
impact in reducing the higher stakes B2 play and has driven the 
reduction in stakes at £50+ by just under 70%. 
While my central focus has been on delivering the growth 
in our business necessary to build scale and return value to 
shareholders, I have been very clear that in delivering my plan 
we have two non-negotiables in our approach, health and 
safety and responsible gambling.
We are clear that gambling should be a safe and enjoyable 
pastime for both our colleagues and customers. 
As part of this commitment we have undertaken a review of 
our approach to health and safety throughout the business. 
We have also committed to move to single scheduling as a 
voluntary only policy in the evenings and this is being rolled out 
through the estate with a target date of being fully operational 
by autumn. While this will have a financial cost, this is already 
factored into our wider view on a 2-3% rise in UK Retail 
operating costs in 2016.
As part of our commitment to responsible gambling we have 
continued to develop our retail algorithm which identifies 
changes in behaviour indicating potential problem gambling 
and assist in helping customers keep their gambling fun. It now 
covers all customers using cards in our retail estate on both 
machines and OTC products. We also launched a responsible 
gambling matrix in our Ladbrokes.com business late in the year. 
We have continued our membership of Senet and played a key 
role in the wider self-exclusion pilot schemes ahead of the 
national scheme to be rolled out in Q2 this year. 2015 was also 
the first year that responsible gambling targets were included in 
executive remuneration, and we believe we are the only 
company in the industry to have done so.
Proposed merger
The proposed merger with the Coral Group was announced 
in July 2015 and we are grateful for the strong support from 
shareholders in November. We are now actively engaged with 
the Competition and Markets Authority (“CMA”) in the formal 
phase two process. We expect to see the preliminary findings 
of the CMA in late April with the current timetable for publication 
of the final report being 24 June 2016 in line with the merger 
timetable we set out last July.
While this process takes place, we will continue to focus on 
the implementation of the organic strategy and the delivery of 
business as usual.
Outlook
Our H2 results give us encouragement that our strategy is 
working. The current year has started well, as the unpredictability 
of the football season has thus far favoured bookmakers. 
Customer metrics continue to remain strong and, as a result we 
maintain our view for 2016. It will be a year of hard work, attention 
to detail and continued investment as we set about delivering 
against our 2017 targets.
Jim Mullen
Chief Executive
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Building a better Ladbrokes
We aim to deliver the most engaging sports betting  
and gaming experience and be the brand of 
choice for the customers, whether they are  
at home, out and about or on the High Street.  
We have seen customers responding well to  
our products, value and recently launched  
multi-channel offer.
16
