 Chairman’s Statement
6
KROMEK Annual Report & Accounts 2015
I am pleased to present our Annual Report 
for the year ended 30 April 2015, following 
being appointed to the role of Chairman 
in April and having been a Non-Executive 
Director of the Company since August 
2013. Whilst it was a mixed year for 
Kromek, it was characterised by good 
progress as we achieved our operational 
targets, resulting in good revenue growth, 
albeit not as strong growth as we had 
anticipated at the start of the year. 
It is increasingly evident that CZT-based detectors 
are set to replace the well-established scintillator-
based detectors (scintillators are based on 
a material that fluoresces when struck by a 
charged particle or high-energy photon). CZT 
is a semiconductor that directly converts x-ray 
or gamma-ray photons into electrons, at room 
temperature, creating a spectroscopic resolution 
that clearly outperforms any commercially-
available scintillator. This unique combination of 
spectroscopy and very high-count rate capability 
at room temperature renders CZT an ideal 
detector solution for medical, industrial and 
homeland security applications – the markets 
that Kromek focuses on. The key breakthrough 
that Kromek has achieved is to produce CZT into a 
stable material in economically viable quantities.
Achieved four key 
operational targets
At the beginning of the year, we set 
ourselves four primary operational targets:
T  Replicate the US manufacturing process in 
the UK to enable the scale up of our business
T  Achieve attractive economic costs 
for the manufacture of CZT
T  Increase our number of customers 
T  Penetrate the US market with our cutting-
edge nuclear imaging detectors
I am pleased to say that we succeeded in 
meeting all four of these targets. Arnab Basu, 
our Chief Executive Officer, provides details 
on how we achieved this on pages 7-8. 
Progress towards 
mass adoption
I am particularly pleased about the replication 
of the manufacturing process as this will enable 
us to scale our business and enhance security 
of supply as well as benefit from efficiencies 
in production, which supports our efforts 
to drive down the price point of CZT-based 
detectors. The market is moving towards mass 
adoption of CZT-based detectors as customers 
are demanding the extra functionality and 
economics from CZT products. As such, 
whilst CZT will remain more expensive than 
scintillators in the short term, the growing 
demand for colour and digital detection of x-rays 
and gamma rays – for applications such as the 
earlier and more accurate detection of cancer 
or protection against ‘dirty bombs’ – is driving 
the utilisation of CZT. That Kromek is making 
significant progress in driving down the cost, 
through improving yield levels, increases the 
competitiveness of our offering and means that 
we are well-positioned to benefit from the trend 
towards mass adoption of CZT-based detectors.
Timing of revenues 
difficult to predict
Whilst we have seen our order book increasing, 
and a strong pipeline provides Kromek with 
improved visibility going forward, dealing 
with government agencies and OEMs renders 
it difficult to predict the exact timing and 
magnitude of some of the contracts. Hence 
we have received orders but then had 
delivery postponed to the next financial year. 
Consequently, our growth in revenues in 2014/15 
was less than we expected at the beginning of 
the financial year. However, there is no doubt 
in my mind that we are at the cusp of a new 
adoption cycle where CZT-based products will 
replace scintillators, presenting Kromek with 
material revenue opportunities over the next 
two to three years. Because a majority of our 
contracts are with government agencies and 
OEMs, we have also learned to be cautious 
with our revenue forecasting models.
Well positioned in 
high-growth markets
During the year, Kromek won a significant contract 
with the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects 
Agency (DARPA) who have already extended 
the contract twice since the initial contract was 
awarded early in the year. We believe that DARPA 
represents a significant radiation detection 
opportunity that will gain momentum over the 
next 12 to 18 months. DARPA is concerned, as 
are other government agencies around the world, 
by the threat of a “dirty” bomb placement.
Kromek’s products for the nuclear medical 
Single Photon Emission Computed T omography 
(“SPECT”) market are likely to mature over the next 
two-year period. A third large growth opportunity 
of computerised tomography (“CT”) components, 
also in medical imaging equipment, is likely to 
see Kromek’s products delivered from 2017/18.
In these areas of CT and SPECT, we believe our 
addressable opportunity stands at $900m and 
$100m p.a. respectively. In the area of portable 
advanced radiation detectors for nuclear 
safeguarding, we believe our market opportunity 
is more than a billion dollars. We have already 
made significant progress within all three of these 
markets, particularly within the last six months. As 
such, we continue to develop our portfolio of end-
use products whilst advancing our longer-term 
strategy of becoming the preferred component 
supplier to major OEMs in CT and SPECT and 
in the supply of network sensors in nuclear 
markets through existing and new relationships.
The other distinct competitive advantage that 
Kromek possesses, in all three markets, is the 
capability to develop and supply the electronics 
to convert the signals, with proprietary 
algorithms, into meaningful detection alerts. 
Employees and Partners
As we look to the future, I would also like to 
express gratitude to those who have enabled 
us to reach this point. In particular, on behalf of 
the Board, I would like to thank all of our staff 
and shareholders for their on-going support. 
With the strengthening of Kromek’s foundations 
and the long-term growth drivers showing no 
sign of abating, we look forward to leveraging 
our technical expertise and ability to innovate 
to grow our business and deliver shareholder 
value. Kromek is, today, a stronger and better 
company than the day we went public. We have 
the market opportunities, we have the products 
and technology, and we have the cost position. 
The next two to three years will be exciting 
as we deliver on these strong foundations.
Lawrence Kinet, 
Chairman, July 2015
Business Review & Strategic Report
