 Chairman’s Statement
Continued organic  
and acquisitive growth
As a result, the Group’s revenues have grown  
from €16.2m in 2013 to €37 .3m in 2014 and 
€58.0m in 2015. Like for like growth has been 
strong at over 20% in each of the past two  
years, with stable net adjusted operating  
margins of approximately 14% in 2015.
During this two year period Keywords has firmly 
established itself as the leading services provider 
to the global games market, with an impressive 
range of services and a reputation for high quality, 
secure and timely delivery of those services. In 
addition to the Group’s traditional service lines  
of localisation and localisation testing, we now 
hold strong positions in functional testing, art 
outsourcing and audio and a growing capability  
in customer support.
Managing Growth
As Keywords has continued to expand at a pace, 
we are making good progress in developing our 
infrastructure, including sales, marketing and 
management processes and information, and 
putting in place a structure to manage the 
business both along service lines and by 
geography. A key focus for 2016 will be  
IT and finance.
We continue to successfully embed the Keywords 
culture across our new operations under the 
strong leadership from our senior executives, 
nearly half of whom joined Keywords through  
the acquisitions made in 2014 and 2015.
The Business Model
Although the core elements of the business model 
are described elsewhere I believe its attributes 
deserve to be recognised as an important feature 
of the business and its evolution. Keywords largely 
charges for its services on a time basis, without 
the risk associated with fixed price contracts, and 
it is able to flexibly meet client demand by using 
well developed pools of contractors to supplement 
its permanent staff as required.
Most of its assignments are repeat in nature, with 
services to existing customers typically accounting 
for around 80% of revenues. Customers pay 
monthly for work undertaken in the previous 
month and the Group’s capital expenditure 
requirements are low, leading to a strong profit  
to cash conversion rate. Keywords must deliver 
good quality service to a demanding set of 
customers against set deadlines; our track record 
shows a high level of customer satisfaction, which 
is testimony to the skill and commitment of 
Keywords’ operatives.
People and Culture
I have already touched on the qualities required, 
and in evidence, by the top team at Keywords, all 
of whom display a commitment and belief that 
Keywords will succeed in its strategy to become 
the clear market leader in its field. On behalf of  
the Board and the shareholders, I’d like to thank 
everyone who works for us for all their individual 
contributions to our past and future success.
Shareholders and Dividend
In November 2015, shareholders supported us 
with a successful placing in which £10.5 million 
was raised to fund continued value-enhancing 
acquisitions by the Company. Through the placing, 
we were able to welcome several new institutional 
shareholders and we would like to thank all of our 
shareholders for their support. We look forward  
to continuing to deliver shareholder value, building 
on the share price progression we have seen in line 
with our underlying trading performance over the 
last couple of years.
In line with its progressive dividend policy, and 
allowing for the need to retain resources to fund 
future growth of the Group’s business and its 
strategic aims, the Board is pleased to recommend 
a final dividend of 0.81p per share which, following 
the interim dividend payment of 0.40p per
share, will make the total dividend for the year 
ending 31 December 2015 1.21p per share, an 
increase of 10% on 2014. Subject to shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final 
dividend will be paid on 23 June 2016 to all 
shareholders on the register at 3 June 2016.
Current Trading, Prospects and Outlook
The current year has started well with the Group 
trading in line with our expectations and the 
recent acquisitions of Ankama and Mindwalk have 
both strengthened our customer service and art 
creation services and brought a strong presence  
in the Philippines and China, respectively.
 
The video games market continues to grow 
strongly, at around 8%* per annum. The 
complexity of taking ever more sophisticated 
games to market in multiple geographies and  
on multiple platforms, means developers and 
producers are increasingly seeking to outsource 
elements of their game production and live 
operations support. Keywords is well placed  
to take advantage of these trends without 
dependence on any individual game.
We expect to make further progress during  
2016 with continued organic momentum in the 
business, as well as realising further synergies, 
benefiting from the full year effect of our 2015 
acquisitions and from the acquisitions of Ankama 
and Mindwalk in 2016. We are also actively 
reviewing a number of acquisitions with the 
potential to further complement our continued 
strong organic growth. We, therefore, look forward 
to 2016 with confidence.
Ross Graham
Chairman
2015 has been another year of strong progress in delivering 
against the ambitious strategy we set out at the time of the 
Group’s flotation in 2013, both organically and by acquisition.
* Source: NewZoo, June 2015.
04 KEYWORDS STUDIOS PLC
