 “ The task is clear , ‘Build a Better Ladbrokes’ 
and deliver the growth to return the business 
to one that wins more customers and 
rewards shareholders.”
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
With this in mind the immediate future for Ladbrokes is one 
of opportunity and expectation.
It was with a sense of pride that at the end of 2015 I stepped up 
to be Chairman of what I regard as one of the biggest and most 
influential bookmakers. It is a great honour to lead this Company  
but it also comes with a weight of expectation as we look forward 
to 2016. I am acutely aware that shareholders have seen recent 
false dawns and am mindful that your patience has been tested. 
While we have ended 2015 confident in the plans laid out by our 
Chief Executive, Jim Mullen, both for organic growth and for the 
proposed merger with the Coral Group, we have to acknowledge 
that these plans come at a cost. The cut in profits and the dividend 
were necessary steps as part of our journey.
But the task for Ladbrokes is to look forward. 2016 will be an 
exciting year full of opportunities. The organic plan to grow is 
showing encouraging signs and creating a belief in our ability 
to deliver scale and drive Ladbrokes back to former heights 
and beyond. 
The proposed merger with Coral is a fast track to scale and we are 
pleased that shareholders gave it such a vote of confidence at the 
General Meeting in November 2015. The competition authorities will 
not be easy to satisfy, but if we are successful, as we expect to be, 
the opportunities created are compelling.
Building for long term 
The appointment of Jim Mullen came after the Board decided that 
a new approach was needed for the business. The task set out 
to him was clear, build a stronger Ladbrokes and gain the scale 
needed to compete ever more effectively in a challenging market.
Jim and his team were quick to move the business away from the 
short-term approach that had dominated, to one with a clear plan 
and longer term targets. Jim has united the Company behind his 
plan to create a business with more recreational customers, more 
digital revenue and growing profits by 2017.
He has been clear from day one, that the talent in the business 
never left, it just needed the encouragement and investment to 
demonstrate its expertise, particularly around sport. It has been  
a focus of his tenure and we believe the encouraging customer 
metrics seen in the second half reflect well on just how much 
talent there is in the business.
02 ladbrokesplc.com In parallel to Jim’s ambition to get Ladbrokes back as the 
sports betting destination of choice for the recreational 
customer, he also took forward the discussion on the potential 
merger with Coral to the point where we now are going through 
the competition authority process to bring this to fruition. 
Throughout the year ahead, the Board are clear on the 
executive team’s task, focus on delivery of the day to day 
business, increase our appeal to the recreational customer 
and be ready to exploit the opportunities offered by the merger. 
Merger
The rationale behind our merger is clear. Organically our plan 
recognises that we need to grow to have scale to compete even 
more effectively in the market. It will create an industry leading 
retail, digital and international business with huge potential to  
build scale, and gain wide customer appeal.
We will have the opportunity to create a leading management 
team by choosing the best of both brands in terms of people, 
systems and operational excellence. Crucially it also offers 
significant ongoing synergy benefits of at least £65 million per 
annum after year three.
The case for the merger is one that you have already backed 
loud and clear but none of us underestimate the challenge 
in execution.
Leading the way
2015 has seen yet more change in our market as the ever 
growing burden of regulation and taxation created the rationale 
for consolidation. We were quick to realise that this challenge 
offered an opportunity and moved early with our proposed 
merger. Others followed and over time we expect more to do so.
We have also seen the continued evolution of the customer 
and their habits, both on the High Street and in the digital world. 
The customer expectation of a good retail offer is evolving and 
that is why we have, and will, continue to look to innovate and to 
build a multi-channel, or ‘One Ladbrokes’ approach, as we call it.
Regulation
As ever we continue to face regulatory and political headwinds. 
In recent years, we have seen the introduction of Point of 
Consumption tax, increases in Machines Games Duty, 
machine stake regulations and advertising restrictions. 
We are a business in a sector where we accept that there 
should be an appropriate level of regulation. However, after 
such high levels of change in such a short period we do believe 
that it is time for there to be a pause, so that all the changes 
can bed in and their effectiveness be properly assessed.
While some of the change is outside our control, we seek to lead 
the industry in best practice. We have actively led and supported 
self regulation initiatives such as the Senet Group and we remain 
committed to focusing on fulfilling our license objectives and 
delivering a safe and responsible offer to our customers. 
Board focus
Your Board has undergone several changes this year and 
after over six years as Chairman, Peter Erskine stood down 
in December. He leaves with our very best wishes and thanks 
for all his hard work.
Darren Shapland also stood down from the Board after six years, 
five as Chair of the Audit Committee. We were delighted towards 
the end of the financial year to announce that Mark Pain would 
be joining as the new Chair of the Audit Committee, a role he 
will maintain in Ladbrokes Coral PLC. Mark has tremendous 
experience as both an executive and non executive Director  
and I am delighted that he has agreed to join us. 
Finally in September we announced that this year’s set of results 
would be the last for Ian Bull as our Chief Financial Officer. He left 
us in early 2016 and has been replaced by Richard Snow, who 
was our Director of Investor Relations. Richard is a chartered 
accountant by training and has spent his career in banking and  
in public companies. He will not join the Board but will attend all 
Board meetings.
With the option of a potential merger ahead, it is not surprising 
that there is a changing of the guard on the Board. Indeed 
I think it is essential that we keep the thinking and overview of 
the business fresh while maintaining experience and knowledge. 
As a Board we are keen to ensure that we take a detailed 
view on not just the issues of today but also longer-term ones. 
You won’t be surprised to know that key decisions such as the 
merger, our refinancing and the examinership process in the 
Republic of Ireland were all heavily discussed as well as those 
for the longer term such as talent management, culture and 
risk management systems. You can see more on our activities 
in the Corporate Governance section.
Looking ahead
As I said in my introduction, 2016 is a year both of excitement 
and expectation for Ladbrokes.
We have a strong brand and a team that is enabling that brand to 
punch its weight in a very competitive market. We are determined 
to build on this foundation for the benefit of our customers, 
shareholders and employees.
The merger, should it be approved, will give us execution 
challenges. While we will allocate the resources to ensure we hit 
the ground running, we will be prudent in our approach and not 
risk our standalone performance. This will be a balancing act but 
the Board aim to ensure it is one we deliver.
We are confident that while 2016 will be as competitive as ever, 
we have the right leader, the right team and the right plan to get 
our brand back to what it does best; sports betting expertise 
allied to competitive products and excellent customer focus.
There is now a clear sense of purpose and belief amongst our 
people and this cannot be underestimated, because as ever it  
is our people who will be the key to our success and we remain 
thankful for all their hard work and dedication. The value it 
provides will never be taken for granted.
John M Kelly
Chairman
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03
