 Chief Executive 
Officer’s Review
7
Kromek is pleased to report another 
period of revenue growth. For the full 
year 2014/15, revenue increased by 36% 
to £8.1m (FY 2013/14: £6.0m) as we 
continued to establish our position as a 
key supplier of CZT detection systems 
both to commercial and government 
customers globally. From H1 to H2, the 
revenues increased by 56% through 
expansion in the number and scope 
of customer-funded development 
projects as well as direct sales of 
both end-user and component-level 
products for OEMs. Notably, we won 
contracts across all three of our target 
segments and in multiple geographies.   
Medical Imaging 
We made good progress this year with our 
mutually exclusive contract with a top four 
global OEM in the CT market for developing 
and supplying CZT-based multispectral 
(colour) detectors for producing high 
resolution colour x-ray images by CT scanners. 
In September 2014, based on sustained 
progress towards meeting the aims of the 
development programme, the OEM confirmed 
its decision to progress to the second year of 
the programme and awarded Kromek a $1m 
exclusivity payment for this next stage. 
Kromek gained further traction during the year 
in our other significant market opportunity 
in the medical imaging segment, SPECT 
where it has been demonstrated that use 
of CZT provides more specificity due to 
higher resolution, which enhances detection 
capabilities. We commenced initial supply of 
our CZT-based modules to an established 
SME manufacturer of x-ray diagnostics and 
analysis equipment in China, under our long-
term contract that we signed last year, for 
application in China and Chinese territories. 
Another significant development for Kromek 
was the continued growth of sales attributable 
to the dual energy x-ray bone mineral 
densitometry (DEXA BMD) segment. DEXA 
BMD is the most accurate imaging technique 
to diagnose the strength and health of bones, 
allowing clinicians to accurately detect, 
monitor and treat Osteoporosis in patients. 
We started a new programme with a leading 
global healthcare and diagnostics company 
for adopting our detectors in their machines. 
In addition, we received further contracts 
from two of our existing OEM customers 
for CZT-based detector modules for BMD 
applications. In the second half, we received 
new orders to supply radiation detectors 
and integrated electronic components to a 
leading global OEM of dual energy x-ray bone 
mineral density (“DEXA BMD”) systems. 
During the year, we received contracts worth 
£150,000 to develop an enhanced detection 
system for breast imaging in conjunction 
with the UK’s Centre for Process Innovation. 
The contracts were awarded by Innovate UK 
(formerly the Technology Strategy Board), 
an executive non-departmental public body 
sponsored by the UK Government’s Department 
for Business, Innovation & Skills. Following the 
successful collaboration on these, and other 
projects, Innovate UK awarded us a further 
contract worth approximately £200,000 for 
an 18-month programme for the development 
of a novel radiation detector for the medical 
and nuclear markets. We are pleased with the 
progress we are making on these programmes.
Market opportunity in 
Medical Imaging
T  SPECT – ongoing discussions with 
several OEMs following recent 
launch of eVance
TM
 family of 
products for Thyroid, Breast, Cardiac 
and General Purpose imaging
T  CT – we have developed our CT 
capability with a major OEM over the 
last two years under an exclusive 
joint development agreement
T  BMD – recurring revenue with good 
margin with existing customers and 
developing new customer relationships
 
Nuclear Detection
We continued to grow our sales in the nuclear 
segment, being awarded contracts across 
multiple partners in the US and worldwide to 
supply innovative nuclear detection products 
for civil nuclear and safeguarding applications 
following the increased threat of ‘dirty bombs’. Of 
particular importance, however, was the signing, 
during the year, of four new and extension 
contracts for a total value of $5.8m with the 
U.S. Department of Defense. In August 2014, 
we were awarded up to $1.2m for a 12-month 
programme with DARPA to develop an advanced 
portable detection system for gamma and 
neutron radiation that can be combined in large 
networks, providing information on radiation 
signatures over an extended area. This contract 
was extended by a further $1.1m by DARPA 
in January 2015 following strong progress on 
the first phase, which signifies the customer’s 
confidence in Kromek as a strong solution 
provider. In April 2015, DARPA further modified 
the contract for volume supply of radiation 
network detectors, worth another $2.02m, 
bringing the total value of the contract to $4.4m. 
Kromek’s solution is based on its ‘Discreet Dual 
Detector’ – the D3 – a handheld hybrid gamma/
neutron detector that can be networked with 
other such devices. Kromek also secured a 
two-year $1.5m contract with DTRA for the 
design, manufacture and optimisation of high 
sensitivity, next generation, solid state detectors 
for the homeland security radiation detection 
market. The project has progressed well and we 
are delivering on all of the target milestones. 
We continued to work under, and successfully 
completed, the first phase of a contract with a 
leading global security company, which provides 
innovative systems, products and solutions 
to government and commercial customers 
worldwide, to design CZT-based detectors and 
ASICs for nuclear safeguard markets. This 
resulted in Kromek being awarded a $1.0m 
contract extension to focus on the delivery of the 
new ASICs and detectors as well as the testing 
and characterisation of detector modules. 
Arnab Basu
Chief Executive Officer, July 2015
Business Review & Strategic  Report
Continued on page 8 Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
8
Market opportunity in 
Nuclear Detection
T  Continuing to penetrate civil nuclear 
markets with our own branded products
T  Ongoing discussions for partnerships 
with two OEMs in civil nuclear market
T  Further implementation of second 
generation D3 – the small form 
factor D3S – in homeland security 
applications post heightened 
threat of ‘dirty bombs’
T  Total value of market opportunity 
is expected to be $1bn+
Security Screening
In the security screening market, Kromek was 
awarded a significant contract to provide its 
advanced bottle scanner technology to a number of 
airports in Asia. This initial contract, worth 
$620,000, represents entry into a new geographical 
market that we believe offers considerable scope for 
future growth. Kromek’ s bottle scanner is now 
installed in 46 airports in 10 countries in Asia, Europe 
and Australia.
Kromek has also expanded its customer base 
during the year with new contracts from additional 
global security technology groups for the supply of 
OEM components for baggage screening products, 
including a new contract worth approximately 
$0.3m for the supply of OEM components for a 
baggage screening product for aviation security. 
We also received a repeat order from a recognised 
OEM in the US to supply our patented detection 
modules to enhance the OEM’s radiation detection 
capabilities for its security applications.  
Market opportunity in 
Security Screening
T  Discussion with global OEM on 
licensing liquid detection technology 
and development of OEM module 
for baggage screening
T  Further sales of bottle scanner product
T  Total value of market opportunity 
is expected to be $450m+
Doubling of 
Manufacturing Capacity 
and Driving Down Cost
During the period, Kromek reached an 
important milestone as it successfully 
replicated in the UK the CZT manufacturing 
processes that had previously been utilised 
in the US, which enabled a doubling of 
the Company’s production capacity. 
Specifically, 24 new CZT growth systems 
were installed and qualified for production 
at our Sedgefield, UK manufacturing site. 
Additionally, four new CZT systems were 
installed and qualified for production 
and R&D purposes at our Saxonburg, 
US manufacturing site. We also made 
significant yield improvements in materials 
for SPECT detectors through a new CZT 
sensor assembly technique, which has 
led to a lowering of the cost of detector 
production. Long-term supply agreements 
were negotiated with critical suppliers to 
secure pricing and supply of raw materials.
In addition to improvements in the 
production of CZT material, we were able 
to further improve the fabrication process 
for detectors resulting in higher fabrication 
yields at the Saxonburg plant. At the 
Sedgefield plant we qualified production 
processes for silicon photomultiplier-
based gamma and neutron detectors. 
There were significant efficiencies made in 
the assembly and testing for our nuclear 
products. Multiple electronic component 
subassembly suppliers were qualified in 
Eastern Europe and Asia to improve costs. 
Advanced automated testing for nuclear 
detection instruments were developed, with 
multiple resources trained and qualified to 
carryout procedures at the Sedgefield plant. 
Both manufacturing sites at Sedgefield and 
Saxonburg were re-certified for ISO9001:2008 
through ISO audits and successfully 
passed several key customer audits.
Outlook
The doubling in manufacturing capacity, increased 
customer base, and significant progress with 
new OEMs and U.S. Department of Defense, 
provides a strong base for growing the business 
over the medium to long term. We believe that 
Kromek has the market-leading technology, 
products and personnel that will enable us 
to win further contracts across the three 
transformational market opportunities of CT, 
SPECT and portable advanced radiation detectors.
We have entered the new financial year with 
a significantly higher backlog than at the 
equivalent period last year with contracts signed 
in the previous year providing 60% visibility 
on the Directors’ expectations for the year 
ahead. We are continuing to make progress and 
receive increasing interest across all three of 
our segments. In Security Screening, we have 
numerous revenue opportunities from the 
sale of bottle scanners in Europe and RoW. In 
Medical Imaging and Nuclear Detection, we are 
especially excited about the increasing traction, 
with both new and existing customers, we are 
making in the three key growth opportunities 
of CT, SPECT and portable advanced radiation 
detection. In particular, the Directors expect the 
recently-launched eVance
TM
 family of SPECT 
cameras and OEM units to gain traction and be 
a significant contributor to revenues over the 
next 12-18 months. We are making significant 
progress with our projects with the U.S. 
Department of Defense, and continue to penetrate 
civil nuclear markets with Kromek-branded 
products and through white labelling channels.       
Kromek’s management team is committed to 
maintaining tight cost control whilst continuing to 
invest in sales & marketing and targeted product 
development. The business has operational 
leverage reflected in a rise in revenue year-on-
year of 36% but a rise in the administrative costs 
(including operating costs) of only 4% year-on-year. 
This is further demonstrated by revenue growing 
by £2.1m year-on-year and adjusted EBITDA 
improving by £1.4m to a loss of £1.6m from a 
loss of £3.0m for the prior year. As a result, the 
Board is confident in the prospects of the business 
and delivering significant shareholder value.
KROMEK Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Business Review & Strategic Report
