 Chief Executive’s 
strategic review
Chief Executive 
Haydn Mursell 
answers the key 
questions about 
Kier’s business and 
performance and 
outlines his vision 
for the future.
Q: What are the main issues you have focused 
on during your first year as Chief Executive?
At the start of the year, I set out four priorities – 
safety, performance, people and communications. 
You simply cannot compromise on safety and I am 
pleased to report a 14% year-on-year reduction in 
Accident Incidence Rate (‘AIR’) across our UK 
businesses. We encourage everyone to think about 
safety, to recognise that it is ‘in their hands’ and that 
we are all responsible for continuous improvement. 
We have set a target AIR of zero for the Group by 
2020, so there is still improvement to be made. 
We are also interested in our people’s health and 
wellbeing. Our wellbeing programme, launched this 
year, helps them to think effectively about diet and 
exercise and generally how to look after themselves.
Performance is about maintaining discipline and 
focus. We are focused on sustainable delivery and 
when we deploy cash or resources into the operations, 
we need to generate an appropriate return for the 
risk we assume. With the increase in the Group’s size 
over the last two years, we are continuing to focus on 
improving the quality of our earnings and simplifying 
our portfolio of businesses to match the changes in 
the market and our clients’ demands. As the economy 
improves, it is critical that we stay disciplined in our 
approach to capital allocation, our return on capital 
criteria and risk management. Accordingly, we have 
sold our fleet & passenger services business and 
propose to sell our UK mining operations, where 
discussions with a potential buyer are progressing well.
In order to deliver Vision 2020, we need to attract 
and retain quality talent. There is currently high 
demand for good people in our markets, so this 
requires special attention. While the strength and 
reputation of our brand helps us to attract people, 
we need to continue to be attractive to prospective 
recruits by offering them training, development and 
career opportunities. This year, we have established a 
number of sector-specific academies in our highways, 
utilities and housing maintenance operations, to 
ensure we have the skills required. 
More broadly, we are committed to investing in our 
future generation of talent by developing early 
careers programmes across the business, spanning 
a range of career entry levels from school leavers to 
post-graduates. We continue to recruit and develop 
a high number of apprentices, day release and 
undergraduate placements and this year introduced 
a Level 3 Kier Technical Apprenticeship programme 
working in partnership with the Learning Skills 
Partnership. Upon successful completion, there 
is the option to progress onto the Kier Degree 
programme which has been in operation for the 
past eight years. We are investing heavily in the 
recruitment and development of graduates, both 
from construction and non-construction disciplines, 
with 115 graduates recruited during 2015. We are 
also proud members of The 5% Club.
How we will achieve 
our vision  
– pages 16 and 17
Safety Profit growth
Zero
Harm
> 10%
CAGR
Shareholder return Customers
Progressive  
dividend +90%
Customer 
satisfaction
Property Residential
> 15%
ROCE
> 15%
ROCE
Construction Services
> 2.5%
EBITA
> 5%
EBITA
Vision 2020
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6 It’s important that everyone is kept informed about 
our performance and plans, so that they know what 
Kier stands for, our achievements and also understand 
how they can contribute to the Group’s success. 
Our annual employee roadshows and regular news 
updates and forums give our people a chance to 
learn about our progress and for the leaders of the 
business to listen to feedback.
During this first year, I have met a number of our 
clients and employees and will continue to do so. 
It is through this level of engagement that I can 
understand clients’ issues and concerns. I have 
also visited many of our sites and I continue to be 
impressed by the dedication and commitment of our 
teams, including those from our supply chain partners. 
I would like to thank our employees for all their hard 
work and support during the year.
Q: What aspects of this year’s results pleased 
you the most?
I am pleased that Kier experienced solid growth this 
year. Once the uncertainty surrounding the outcome 
of the UK General Election reduced, the confidence 
of our investors and clients improved, which is 
reflected in our revenue and our growing pipeline 
of opportunities. 
We continued to progress towards Vision 2020, 
increasing the Group’s underlying profitability and 
scale of operations both organically and through 
acquisitions, and we increased the quality of 
our earnings. 
Q&A
with Haydn Mursell  
Chief Executive
£3.3bn 
+13%
Group revenue
1
(2014: £2.9bn)
£103.7m 
+19%
Underlying 
operating profit
1,2
(2014: £87.3m)
£9.3bn
Combined Construction 
and Services order book
(2014: £6.2bn)
1
 Continuing operations. Prior year comparatives restated to reflect the reclassification of the UK mining activities as discontinued operations.
2
 Stated before non-underlying items; see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our Property division continues to successfully invest 
the Group’s free cash flow in predominantly non-
speculative developments and our Residential 
division is benefiting from the supply and demand 
imbalance in UK housing. In Construction, the quality 
of opportunities is improving, with the risk profile of 
new work lower than it has been for some years. In 
our Services division, we now have leading positions 
in important growth sectors such as highways, 
through the acquisition of Mouchel, and a new 
£200m maintenance contract with Northamptonshire 
County Council, an existing client, as well as in the 
utilities sector through the asset management plan 
(‘AMP’) water bidding cycle, where we secured 
significant new business with clients such as Anglian 
Water and Thames Water. 
Q: Where can you improve?
We offer a range of capabilities designed to deliver 
a breadth of services for clients, to suit their 
requirements. This year we have shown our ability to 
do this with new partnerships with Northamptonshire 
County Council and with Staffordshire County Council 
and the Police and Crime Commissioner for 
Staffordshire. These partnerships illustrate how 
clients want to work more broadly with the Group 
and provide opportunities for us to promote the full 
range of services to our clients. It is anticipated that 
the requirement for a broad set of capabilities, 
particularly by local authorities and affordable 
housing providers, will increase following the 
Government’s recent Budget.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Chief Executive’s 
strategic review continued
Mouchel – a 
compelling 
strategic 
rationale
On 8 June 2015 the Group acquired MBRL 
Limited (‘Mouchel’) for £265m. 
The transaction:
• Creates a sector leader in the growing 
UK highways management and 
maintenance market;
• Provides an integrated capability in 
the highways and utilities sectors;
• Further enhances Kier’s service offering 
in the local authority markets; and
• Expands the Group’s international 
presence.
Q: What will drive growth to 2020?
We are pleased with our progress against 
Vision 2020 and we expect the business to grow 
in the coming year. Looking over the medium term, 
infrastructure is a particular growth market. The 
UK Government has committed to investing in the 
transport system, with a particular focus on building 
roads and railways. Meanwhile, the impending 
reduction in the UK’s power generation capacity 
will also need to be addressed to service current 
and future power demands. We have capabilities in 
these sectors through our highways capital works 
and maintenance activities; in rail, on Crossrail, our 
new joint venture for HS2 and through our broader 
relationship with Network Rail. In power, we have an 
established track record in the sector, having built 
10 of the last 14 gas-fired facilities in the UK, and 
we are currently working at Hinkley Point C nuclear 
power station.
In the services market, the budget challenges for 
local authorities continue to drive a need for new 
ways to manage assets, value and how best to 
deliver essential local services. This is expected to 
lead to an overall increase in outsourcing opportunities 
that require a broad range of capabilities of the type 
we can provide.
Our Residential division seeks to address the 
continuing shortage of affordable UK housing 
stock as overall production remains well below 
the Government’s annual targets. Recent changes 
to the ‘Right-to-Buy’ policy and funding for registered 
providers is likely to lead to greater public and private 
collaboration on housing schemes which the Group 
is equipped to address. We believe that the 
affordable housing market will see the greatest 
growth and with the public sector already owning 
land suitable for housing, our aim is to assist them 
in deriving value through housing development.
The growth we envisage will require us to continue 
to invest in the Group and particularly in our systems. 
The planned investment in our human resources and 
finance change programme, BOOST, will underpin 
continuing improvement in the efficiency of our 
operating model which over time will increase the 
efficiency of our operating model which will 
consequently increase the quality of our margins.
Q: What balance sheet structure do you need 
to deliver Vision 2020?
As set out in Vision 2020, we are committed to 
achieving a net debt/EBITDA ratio of 1.0x by 2017 
and we are well on course to meet that commitment. 
An appropriate level of debt is tax efficient and 
allows us greater flexibility to invest for the future, 
to generate attractive returns for a modest cost while 
interest rates are historically low. Our target balance 
sheet structure is designed to be both efficient 
and prudent.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
8 Q: What does the Mouchel acquisition mean 
for Kier?
Following the acquisition of Mouchel, Kier has 
become the sector leader in the growing UK highways 
management and maintenance market, at a time 
when the new UK Government has significantly 
increased the highways budget. More than 70% of 
Mouchel’s business is in strategic highways which, 
when combined with Kier’s highways work with local 
authorities, provides considerable opportunities 
for synergies.
We are now well-positioned to benefit from the new 
Road Investment Strategy which sets out a long-term 
investment of £17bn to maintain, renew and enhance 
the strategic road network between 2015-2020, 
with annual expenditure increasing from £2.9bn to 
£4.1bn over the same period. Our greater presence 
in the highways sector also accelerates our strategy 
for growth more broadly across the infrastructure 
market. When looking across the infrastructure, 
construction and maintenance activities, the business 
now has total revenue of more than £1.5bn in the 
UK, with further significant growth opportunities.
Mouchel also has an outsourcing business, principally 
aimed at local authorities and public sector clients, 
such as the emergency services. I am excited by the 
opportunities that Mouchel’s local authority clients 
could provide to us. I am also pleased that we are 
progressing with the smooth integration of the Mouchel 
business and have retained its core management 
team, ensuring continuity and stability.
Q: What are the risks to your growth?
The detailed risks to our business are set out in more 
detail later in the report. However, our focus needs 
to remain on being selective in bidding for new work. 
To deliver our growth plans, we need to maintain 
our disciplined tender processes and contract risk 
management practices. We believe that our pre-
contract risk management process is good and this, 
combined with highly capable delivery teams, is 
essential to the Group’s sustained performance. 
We therefore need to have the right people to bid 
for and deliver contracts and to service our clients, 
together with the leadership and drive to develop 
our business. I believe the new Board appointments 
announced this year give us the experience and 
expertise to do this.
Q: The construction sector has a history of 
problems. How have you avoided them?
At Kier, we have made a significant investment in 
managing pre-construction risk, reflecting the fact 
that this is the stage where it is important to 
discover, and resolve, potential difficulties with a 
project. We also carry out a large number of projects 
with relatively modest capital values and shorter 
durations, which helps to reduce the overall risk. 
A significant number of our projects are 12 to 15 
months long, which limits our exposure to inflation 
or other supply chain risks. In addition, our position 
on a large number of frameworks enables us to 
manage risk effectively.
Q: How about the international business?
We anticipate our international business will deliver 
10% of the Group’s revenues by 2020. However, we 
recognise that, although higher margins are available 
to us in overseas markets, risk management remains 
imperative. We will, therefore, remain selective in 
our international expansion. In Hong Kong, work 
is progressing on our two major rail contracts for 
Mass Transit Railway Corporation (‘MTRC’), although 
these remain challenging, with project delays being 
experienced across the entire rail programme, and 
we are working with MTRC to resolve these issues. 
We have a long-established track record of operating 
in the Caribbean and the Middle East. The market 
in Dubai is currently providing us with a number of 
opportunities and our Middle East presence has 
been further strengthened by the capabilities offered 
by Mouchel. The acquisition of Mouchel has also 
brought new operations in Australia, principally 
through the DownerMouchel joint venture. 
Q: What makes Kier’s culture special?
When the business listed in the 1990s, a large 
percentage of the shareholders were employees, 
who naturally had a keen interest in our performance 
and direction. Our people remain very engaged with 
the Group’s performance and strategy. 
We are focused on creating a consistent culture 
across the Group following the recent acquisitions. 
When we bought Mouchel and May Gurney, we spent 
considerable time understanding their cultures and 
whether they complemented Kier’s. We also focus 
on inducting employees into the Group, so that they 
have an understanding of our core values, how we 
work and what is expected of them.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
9
Strategic Report 1–59 Governance Report 60–111 Financial Statements 112–168 Chief Executive’s 
strategic review continued
Q: How does Kier benefit from its broad 
capability offering?
Kier offers a breadth of capabilities. The key is being 
able to bring together the right skills from across our 
businesses, to solve our clients’ problems by providing 
an integrated offer. Our breadth of services means we 
can help clients to finance, plan, design, construct 
and maintain their assets. One of my responsibilities 
is to ensure that Kier’s senior managers are familiar 
with our full range of capabilities, so they can help 
clients to understand how we can best support them.
The Group’s breadth of services also provides a 
natural hedge, as the financial performance of our 
divisions is typically different through the economic 
cycle. This is particularly highlighted by the Group’s 
resilient performance during the recent recession 
where different parts of the Group were able to 
support other parts.
Q: Why do clients choose Kier? 
Our aim is to deliver what we say we will deliver, to 
budget, to time and to the right quality. We believe 
that our integrity means that clients know what they 
will get from us, as demonstrated by the level of 
repeat business we secure. We are also selective 
about the projects we bid for and we believe that this 
bidding discipline is absolutely key to maintaining 
sound risk management processes.
Q: Why is your share price lower than before 
the Mouchel acquisition and rights issue?
The share price was affected by the rights issue 
under which we issued 39,646,692 new shares 
at 858 pence each to fund the Mouchel acquisition. 
This reduced the average value of our shares. 
However, shareholders had the right to buy new shares 
at the discounted price or they could sell their rights 
if they decided not to take them up.
Q: What should we expect from the Group over 
the next 12 months?
My priority remains to deliver Vision 2020. Following 
the acquisition of Mouchel, we are integrating those 
operations, ensuring we deliver the annualised 
pre-tax cost synergies of £10m from 2017. In 
addition, we now have an increased infrastructure 
presence and this creates additional opportunities.
As the economy improves and our pipeline of work 
increases, we need to maintain our bidding discipline 
and remain strict about our financial hurdles and 
other key performance indicators. We will also 
consider divesting those businesses which do not 
meet those standards. We are focused on continuing 
to improve the quality of our earnings and will be 
reviewing our portfolio of businesses to reflect the 
changing demands of the market.
We remain committed to maintaining our integrated 
approach, offering our services to help clients to 
address their budgetary challenges. Following strong 
results in 2015, we are able to look to the future 
with confidence.
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 59, 
has been reviewed and approved by the Board 
of directors on 16 September 2015.
 
Haydn Mursell 
Chief Executive
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10
