 Strategic report
chief executive’s review
14   Lavendon Group plc 2015
I am pleased to report the Group’s continued
progress in 2015 with our strategic aims of
growth cash flow and ROCE. In particular,
the Group’s growth has delivered an
underlying profit before tax and amortisation
in 2015 of £38.5 million, a record level of
profitability for the Group.
don Kenny Group Chief Executive                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lavendon Group plc 201 5   15
Overview of Group strategy
Before we look at the progress that the
Group has achieved in 2015, please let me
remind you of the overall Group strategy.
At its highest level, the Group’s strategy
can be summarised according to the
Strategram (below). We have a mission and
associated series of strategic goals, we then
have our strategic programmes and initiatives
to drive achievement of these goals.
Our mission
Our mission is clear and remains the same:
“To be a powered access rental provider
which is market leader in its selected
geographies, placing safe access at the
heart of what we do”
Currently, Lavendon enjoys market leading
positions in the UK and the Middle East. It is
the second largest powered access rental
business in Germany and Belgium and is
continuing to grow strongly in France,
where it operates the fifth largest powered
access fleet in the country.
Road map
In previous Annual Reports I had set out
a road map for the future. To achieve our
mission we planned three phases of
development, which are summarised 
opposite.
For 2011 to 2013 we focused on improving,
standardising and optimising the Group’s
operations to ready it for the transition into
Group road map
a ‘best in class’ business. We called this phase
“Fit for the Future”, and through the rigorous
implementation of a plan to improve both
operational and capital efficiency we secured
significant financial benefits.
During 2014 and 2015 we entered the
second phase, titled “Best in Class”. In this
phase we sought to drive the business
onward to achieve operational excellence.
In the final phase “Safe Access Solutions
Provider” we are looking to leverage our
position to be the de facto market
leading brand and partner of choice
for the customer.
Strategic goals
In striving to deliver our mission, I also set
three strategic goals to achieve as we
progress along our journey:
• Growth
• Cash Flow
• ROCE > WACC
First, to sustainably increase the scale
of our business, growing its revenues
and profitability.
Second, to generate a cash flow after
the servicing of debt finance, that is
sufficient to cover the replacement capital
expenditure requirements of the business
and support the Group’s dividend policy.
And third, to achieve a Return on Capital
Employed (“ROCE”) in excess of our
weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”)
over the business cycle.
Overview Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements
Mission 
Market leader
in our chosen
geographic markets
Strategic Goals
  
Growth; Cash Flow; ROCE
Strategic Programmes 
Customer Focus; Revenue Generation; 
Operational Excellence; Capital Eﬃciency;   
Performance Improvement
• Safety a given, becoming a
differentiator.
• High customer satisfaction.
• Enhance operational capabilities
  in HDC, Engineering and Logistics.
• Implementation of a standardised
  IT platform.
• Fleet and infrastructure optimisation.
• £5.2m operational efficiency delivered.
Operational Excellence
• Unique safety enhancing capabilities
  and equipment.
• Market leading ‘customer experience’.
• Employer of choice.
• Standard processes, platforms
  and people structures.
• Effective and efficient infrastructure.
• Optimal fleet size, mix and age.
• £1.5m operational improvement.
Partner of choice
• Leader in our selected markets for the
  provision of safe access solutions.
• Adjacent capabilities.
• Complementary markets.
• Balanced geographic presence
availing of attractive growth
opportunities.
SHORT TERM (2011-2013)
‘Fit for the Future’
MEDIUM TERM (2014-2015)
‘best in class’
LONG TERM (2016 onwards)
‘safe access solutions provider’ 16   Lavendon Group plc 2015
Strategic report
chief executive’s review continued
Progress in 2015
In 2014 we achieved our first strategic goal
with ROCE of 11.9% exceeding our WACC 
for the first time. I am pleased to report that
our ROCE for 2015 is 12.3%, again ahead of
our WACC and an improvement on 2014.
Since 2011, Group revenues have increased
by over 10% while we concentrated
our efforts on optimising our fleet and
infrastructure and securing operating
efficiencies. Driving growth is now the
primary strategic goal as we move forward
into 2016 and beyond.
Our strategic goal for cash flow was to be
able to consistently fund our replacement
capital expenditure requirements from our
free cash flows after servicing debt and at
the same time support our dividend policy.
In 2015 our cash flow was sufficient to fund
our debt service and taxation charges of
£12.2m, our replacement fleet programme
of £44.0m and our dividend in the year of
£8.3m. It was also able to partly fund our
expansion fleet investment of £47.0m.
During 2015, we continued making significant
progress in our quest to deliver our medium
term objective of operational excellence.
With this in mind, we reviewed the progress
being made with the recently outsourced
transportation function in the UK, and
concluded that this was not delivering the
expected customer service improvements
at the expected cost. Consequently, we have
decided to bring this function back under our
direct control. The transition of the function
back in house will be completed by the end
of February, and while this may cause some
disruption to the business in the short
term, we are confident that our operational
efficiencies and customer service levels will
improve over the year.
Innovation
One of the highlights of 2015 was the launch
of the SkySiren PCS secondary guarding
device. Developed by our BlueSky Solutions
business it delivers a major step forward in
our “Your safety, our priority” campaign. It is
designed to prevent potentially fatal crushing
accidents arising through operator error.
At the present time, this technology is
available exclusively from Lavendon and can
be used with a large proportion of the
Group’s fleet of booms lifts. The market
impact of such devices is discussed further
in latter parts of this Strategic Report.
Safety
The safety of our customers and staff is
extremely important to the Group. All of the
Group’s business units continually monitor,
investigate and report on our safety
performance with regard to any lost time
accidents which result in an employee or
contractor needing to take time off work as
a result. We equally report on and take
necessary corrective actions in the case of
near misses when they arise.
Our key measure for monitoring safety
performance is the Accident Frequency
Rate (“AFR”). The AFR is used to monitor
our performance with regard to “lost time”
accidents where as a result an employee
or a contractor has to take three or more
days off work as a result. I am pleased to
report that we beat our target of 0.56
lost time accidents per 100,000 hours
worked, achieving an actual result of
0.42 (2014: 0.52).
Fleet
2015 was a record year for fleet
investment for the Group after we invested
£91m (2014: £61m). We replaced c.2,000
units of fleet and changed the mix where
necessary to reflect the latest demand
profile. We also expanded the fleet in
Europe and the Middle East by 600 and 
700 units respectively.
Technical
Last year I announced that the Group
would be enhancing its Technical
excellence programme. The new
programme, TechX2020 builds upon the
existing programme, but takes it to another
level with the introduction of two new
targets of heightened achievement;
Platinum and Diamond.
In June 2015, our Swansea depot in the UK
became the first depot to achieve Platinum
status. By the close of the year a further
22 depots from the UK, Germany, Belgium,
France and the United Arab Emirates had
also achieved Platinum standard. My
congratulations go to our depot staff and
managers in achieving this fantastic result.
Employees
2015 saw the roll out of a number of staff
training and development programmes.
All management grade staff, as well as
some up and coming employees were
taken through an assessment and
development programme which we called
project Kindle. The programme gave
feedback to employees about their current
ability and potential. As part of the process,
we also identified those employees who
demonstrated the highest potential for the
future and provided them with accredited
tailored training and coaching to ready
them for succession opportunities as and
when they may arise.
In total, the Group facilitated 2,700 days
of employee training over the course of
the year.
At the close of 2015 we completed a
Group wide employee satisfaction survey.
The employee net promoter score from
that survey was 46, which is the highest we
have achieved. This is a promising
indicator for the future, however myself
and my fellow senior executives will
continue to ensure that we focus on this
area to deliver a stable employee base in
2016 and beyond.
Despite the above our principal KPI for
employee satisfaction, employee turnover,
increased to 26% from 19%. A significant
part of the increase was driven by the
outsourcing of logistics staff in the UK to
our chosen logistics partner Wincanton.
Voluntary labour turnover also increased
to 15% from 11% in the year, as improving
market conditions for sales and engineering
positions in the UK affected the Group. Financial performance
Full details of the Group’s financial
performance are detailed in the Financial
Review on page 25. I am pleased to report
that the Group once again improved its
revenues and profits and achieved a ROCE
of 12.3% (2014 12.1%), well ahead of our
WACC of 9.5%.
Strategy and strategic
programmes
Our strategy remains unchanged from
the previous year. Central to the delivery
of the Group’s strategic goals are a series
of four strategic programmes (opposite),
which encompass all of the activities,
projects, policies and actions that
management are taking toward
achievement of these objectives.
On the following pages, I expand upon
each programme in more detail and bring
these to ‘life’ with actual examples of each
strategic element being followed in 2015, 
in our “Strategy in Action” section.
As our business and strategies evolve,
I look forward to updating you on our
progress in the future.
Summary
I am pleased by the continuing performance
of the Group. I would like to express my
thanks to all our staff members who have
worked diligently to help us achieve our
objectives. There is still plenty more work
to do as we continue our journey. I am
confident that together, we will continue to
build a business that delivers on all of our
objectives and will therefore deliver
impressive performance and returns to
our investors.
Don Kenny
Chief Executive
25 February 2016
Overview Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lavendon Group plc 201 5   17
competitive 
advantage from
customer Focus
Growth
roce
cash Flow
revenue
Generation
Programme
capital 
efficiency
Programme
operational 
improvement 
Programme
Group strategic programmes
