  
 
Sean Birrane
Chief Executive Officer
Lakehouse Chief Executive 
Officer Sean Birrane 
discusses our business, 
performance, strategy  
and plans for the future.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 14
Interview with  
Sean Birrane, 
CEO Q What pleased you most about this year’s results?
A  We delivered a strong operational and financial performance 
across the Group, despite the inevitable distractions of  
the IPO process. We acquired and integrated four new 
businesses and negotiated two more that completed after 
year-end, all to complement our Energy Services and 
Compliance divisions. We also established a Regeneration 
business in Scotland and mobilised a number of new 
responsive maintenance contracts within Regeneration 
(East). Achieving all that while staying focused on delivery  
is testament to the great people we have.
Q Where can you do better?
A  We need to make sure we stay up to date with how our 
customers’ needs and expectations are changing, and help 
them to understand which other services we can deliver for 
them. The acquisitions we have made over the last few years 
have given us new customers in new parts of the country.  
We have also broadened our service offering, so we have  
to bring our existing customers up to speed with everything 
we do. We need to continue to get in front of our customers 
and have that dialogue. 
   We are also looking to continuously improve, particularly 
through our ‘Customer Journey’ initiative and by using ICT.  
We will continue investing in both those areas to drive 
performance.
Q  You operate in four markets – Regeneration, 
Compliance, Energy Services and Construction.  
Why these four? Could you add a fifth?
A  Our divisions provide different services but to the same 
customers. That is an important part of our cross-selling 
strategy – to provide a single customer with services from  
all our divisions. It is more efficient for them and clearly 
benefits us too.
   The four markets in which we operate also remain very 
fragmented and we still have relatively small shares of these 
markets. That means there is plenty of growth to go for,  
in markets where we are already established and have a  
strong reputation.
 
Q  How significant could the commercial sector be  
for Lakehouse?
A  Our acquisitions have made the commercial sector more 
important to us and there are significant opportunities there, 
especially for Energy Services and Compliance, albeit to 
provide some context, this sector still makes up less than  
5% of our revenues. If we can deliver the same services,  
at the right margins, to the right sort of customer, then we  
will definitely explore those opportunities. We can also  
cross-sell our other services to commercial customers,  
as they rationalise their supply chains and use fewer service 
providers. There is lots of potential.
 
Q  Will Lakehouse ultimately become a national player  
in its markets?
A  There are certainly near term opportunities to take 
Compliance and Energy Services nationwide, both through 
organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions. We also want to 
continue our success in Scotland, where we have established 
a Regeneration business to work with our existing Energy 
Services customers in the public sector. But we have also  
got a lot more to go for in our existing regions, so it is much 
more about the quality of the opportunities than geographical 
expansion for the sake of it.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
15
Overview
Making an impact through  
deeper relationships. In May 2015 Lakehouse was announced Customer Service Award winner 
at the Housing Excellence Awards in Manchester. The nomination was 
based on the ‘Customer Journey’ initiative which focuses on people and 
relationships and has created a sustainable customer service model 
using innovative behavioural management techniques.
Our team of Resident Liaison Officers help us to retain contracts and win 
new work by ensuring high levels of customer satisfaction.
Q What are the key risks to your growth plans?
A  We expect that our social housing customers will be affected 
by Right to Buy and the cap on rents, which may mean they 
will have fewer properties and less income. Government 
policy has also influenced the Energy Services market, 
particularly around carbon pricing. However, we offer a broad 
range of services, many of which are compulsory, and we 
expect our clients to continue to invest in their assets.
  It is also important for us to attract and retain a high-calibre 
workforce. As we have grown Compliance and Energy 
Services, we are delivering more business directly rather  
than through our traditional subcontracting model. We have  
a larger, mobile engineering workforce which we will continue 
to grow.
Q  What difference has the IPO made to your business?
A  Becoming a listed company inevitably involved strengthening 
our governance framework and reporting. The challenge is  
to make sure that does not change our culture or affect our 
employees at the local level. We are very conscious of that. 
We need to protect our entrepreneurial ethos and make sure 
our people can concentrate on delivering for our customers.
Q  What are your plans for acquisitions?
A  We are always keen to identify acquisitions and we have said  
that we would like to add to our Compliance, Energy Services  
and Regeneration businesses. We regularly assess targets,  
to see if they fit our criteria, which are to acquire businesses 
that provide us with complementary service offerings, expand 
our geographical reach and/or provide the opportunity to 
generate higher margin sales and improve cash generation. 
We are very selective about the businesses we acquire and 
highly focused on meeting these criteria. If we find targets that 
fit our strategy, then we have the financial strength to acquire. 
 
  We also have to be able to successfully integrate every 
business we buy. We put a lot of time and effort into working 
with and understanding our targets first, and we carefully 
map out the integration in advance and make sure we have 
buy-in for the programme from both sides. The more 
acquisitions we do, the better we get at it.
Q Why should potential customers choose Lakehouse?
A  First and foremost, it is the quality of delivery – customers get 
great service when they come to us. It is also about the way 
we work. We provide a personal service and our customers 
know that if they have an opportunity or an issue, they can 
speak directly to the person in charge. 
  Finally, we have a broad range of services to offer. Even if 
customers do not want several services right now, they like 
knowing they can take them in the future. All of that translates 
into excellent customer satisfaction scores, strong customer 
relationships and good levels of repeat business.
Q  What should we expect from Lakehouse in the  
next 12 months?
A  Our aim for next year is to keep doing what we are doing.  
That means delivering great service to our customers and 
building on our reputation for delivery as a trusted partner.
Sean Birrane
Chief Executive Officer
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 16
Interview with  
Sean Birrane, 
CEO 
continued Mission
To improve lives by creating better environments in which  
to live, work and learn, and to make an impact by building  
deeper relationships.
Vision
To be a unique and outstanding asset and energy support 
services group, where we lead our market, innovate in our  
sector, and where our people are happy and proud, working  
to delight our customers.
Values
 — Passion – work with a passion for delivering our services  
to our customers: enthusiasm is everything
 — Care – understand and act in the best interests of our 
employees, customers and partners to ensure the Lakehouse 
experience is a positive one
 — Keeping promises – deliver promises on time and to the 
agreed standard: our word is our bond
 — Responsibility – committed to ownership and responsibility, 
from individual to corporate level
Services
Regeneration, Compliance, Energy Services, Construction.
Markets
We serve three core public sector markets:
 — Social housing
 — Education
 — Public buildings
We also increasingly serve clients who own industrial and 
commercial buildings.
Company  
snapshot
Business model
Our business model is based on our commitment to delivering 
great service to our customers, which in turn enables us to create 
value for all our stakeholders.
Strategy
We have a five-part strategy, each element of which reinforces  
the others:
 — Driving organic growth
 — Increasing cross-selling
 — Expanding our geographical footprint
 — Increasing self-delivery
 — Making complementary acquisitions
KPIs
We measure the success of our strategy using the following 
indicators:
 — Revenue 
 — Underlying EBITA 
 — Order book  
 — Underlying operating cash 
conversion  
 — Accident Incident Rate
 — Management retention rate
 — Customer satisfaction
 — Carbon usage
Resources, relationships and sustainability
The resources and relationships that are central to our business 
model, as well as our broader approach to responsible business, 
fall into four main categories:
 — Workplace
 — Marketplace
 — Community
 — Environment
17 Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategic review
