 I am pleased with the performance across the Group in our maiden 
year as a listed company. We reported underlying Group revenue 
growth of 11.3% to £336.6m with underlying profit before tax 
increasing significantly to £21.6m. We have continued to focus on 
the quality of business we win, prioritising earning good margins 
rather than revenue. The Group won a wide range of work in the 
period including a number of strategically important long term 
contracts. In addition, we have benefited from our focused 
approach to identifying the right contracts to target, high-quality  
bid compilation and a considered approach to pricing. This has 
increased our order book and, coupled with a strong sales pipeline, 
puts us in a strong position for growth in the future. 
Our highly selective targeting of new opportunities has also 
contributed to the improved profit margins across each of our 
divisions. I am delighted with the rate and success of the 
integration of our newly acquired businesses and I am very 
positive about the cross-selling opportunities that our newly 
integrated businesses are already bringing to the Group.
Regeneration
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Revenue (£m) 161.7 172.6 (6.3)%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 10.5 9.3 13.4%
Underlying EBITA margin 6.5% 5.4% 110bps
Regeneration provides planned and responsive maintenance 
services for social housing clients, which are mainly local 
authorities and housing associations. The division operates 
through three businesses: Regeneration (South), Regeneration 
(East) and Regeneration (North).
The 6.3% reduction in revenues during the year reflected that  
our Hackney Homes contract came to maturity and the Eastern 
Procurement and London Borough of Camden frameworks  
were in the stages of re-procurement in the period. We are 
participating in the re-procurement of relevant lots for both 
Eastern Procurement and Camden in the current financial year; 
the outcome of both exercises will be determined by where we 
can make a satisfactory return.
Despite the reduced revenue, we improved our EBITA margins by 
selectively bidding and focusing on our framework opportunities 
with smaller, higher margin contracts. This focus reflects the 
changing social housing procurement backdrop, where some 
clients are moving away from high value bundled contracts to 
more product-targeted frameworks with multiple potential delivery 
partners. This has resulted in an increased level of bidding activity 
but plays to our strategy, as the breadth of services Lakehouse 
offers enables us to bid for these as specialists, giving us a 
competitive advantage over our larger peers, who cannot 
necessarily offer such services in-house. We only recognise the 
value of confirmed orders and budgets in our order book, so one 
consequence of this trend is that we are likely to see an increased 
difference between the value of our confirmed order book and the 
overall value of framework contracts, based on our estimated 
share of the available budget.
During the year the division continued to win new business, 
increasing its participation in framework contracts from 33 at the 
end of September 2014 to 53. Importantly, these frameworks 
have a combined value of £539m and an average duration of  
four years. Notable wins included the two year London & 
Quadrant Housing Trust Decent Homes framework, a Stevenage 
Borough Council two year roofing upgrade programme, a four 
year external decorations programme for Family Mosaic and  
a four year major housing works framework for Enfield Homes. 
Regeneration (South) secured a place on the Southwark four year 
framework; secured and delivered projects for Guinness (Mansell 
Street externals and a further kitchen and bathroom scheme); 
kitchen and bathroom upgrade works for London Borough of 
Harrow; and fire precaution upgrade works for Brent Housing 
Partnership. In addition, as reserve contractor, we have been 
called on to help clients when their incumbent partners have  
fallen short in terms of service. We also re-secured the Eastern 
Procurement Heating framework following our strong 
performance and high levels of customer satisfaction on  
the previous framework. 
We invested in our continued organic growth in two key areas:  
a responsive maintenance operation in Regeneration (East) and  
in Regeneration (North) in Scotland. 
Regeneration (East) mobilised the five responsive maintenance 
contracts won in the first half of the year and we see this as  
a growth area, albeit we may look at targeted acquisitions to  
help us achieve critical mass. We are also looking to build the 
business in adjacent markets and saw early success at the end  
of the year with an important contract win with Nottingham-based 
Metropolitan Housing Trust to undertake kitchen and bathroom 
refurbishments over a two year period. We are also seeing some 
direct selection contracts coming from the Efficiency East 
Midlands framework we were recently appointed to (for planned 
maintenance services), alongside our Compliance division  
(for both gas and water and air hygiene).
Regeneration (North) is already winning work, including being 
appointed to frameworks for the City of Edinburgh and Argyll  
& Bute Council. City of Edinburgh has begun a substantial 
procurement programme and we will shortly be delivering our  
first newly secured contracts through this framework.
To further improve customer service and our efficiency, we have 
implemented our new maintenance operating system, Impact 
Response, for responsive maintenance services. This system tracks 
each responsive maintenance task order, from the moment we 
receive the call, all the way through to customer satisfaction surveys 
and invoicing. We have also invested significantly in a new customer 
contact centre in Regeneration (East). By supporting high-quality 
service, these initiatives will help us to win and retain contracts.
Self-delivery remains an important part of our strategy: for 
example, our roofing team is successfully delivering projects using 
this model. We intend to roll out this model more widely in the 
medium term which will help us improve customer satisfaction 
and contract profitability.
As discussed above, we are seeing a shift away from traditional 
bundled frameworks with guaranteed budget allocations to  
a small number of contractors, to frameworks with multiple 
contractors competing on mini tenders. Regeneration is seeing  
an increasing number of opportunities coming through as a result, 
where clients are seeking to broaden their base of service 
providers. We expect the current year to be one of consolidation, 
as some of our traditional bundled frameworks come to an end 
and we seek to develop positions on a wider number of new 
frameworks. We are confident that our reputation for customer 
service and operational delivery means we are well positioned  
to help these customers over the long term.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 26
Chief Executive Officer’s 
Divisional review Compliance
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Revenue (£m) 36.6 32.2 13.9%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 4.5 2.5 77.0%
Underlying EBITA margin 12.3% 7.9% 440bps
Compliance comprises planned and responsive maintenance, 
installation and repair services to local authority and housing 
association clients in the areas of gas, fire and electrical, water 
and air hygiene and lifts. These services cover clients’ social 
housing and public building assets. The acquisition of H2O 
Nationwide in October 2014 expanded our range of compliance 
services into air and water. In addition, we acquired Sure 
Maintenance in September 2015, extending the geographical 
footprint of the Group’s gas offering. In November 2015, after the 
end of the financial year, we acquired Aaron Services, which gives  
us a broader geographic footprint, offering the same cross-selling 
openings as Sure and a particular opportunity to work with 
Regeneration (East), which operates in a similar territory. In 
December 2015, we announced the acquisition of Precision Lifts 
which brings lift installation and maintenance capabilities into the 
division. This enables us to provide an even more comprehensive 
compliance offering and opens up new opportunities.
Full year revenues increased by 13.9%, an improvement of 
£4.4m. This was aided by the acquisition of our water and air 
business, H2O Nationwide, on 3 October 2014 which provided  
a full year contribution. The acquisition of Sure Maintenance in 
September 2015, close to year end, provided a small contribution.
An improvement in business mix, particularly the contribution of 
higher margin water and air services, along with a number of high 
margin projects saw margins improve from 7.9% to 12.3%. The 
division also did not see the scale of new contract mobilisation 
experienced in the prior year and so saw a lower impact of 
mobilisation costs.
Notable wins included a seven year gas maintenance contract 
with Arun District Council, a three year mechanical and electrical 
contract with MHS Homes, and a four year electrical maintenance 
contract with Brighton & Hove City Council. Our projects with 
Peabody and A2 Dominion, which were the result of cross-selling 
initiatives, also performed well. We are continuing to strengthen 
our relationships with these customers. Further successes 
include fire maintenance and safety works for Kensington & 
Chelsea TMO and Wandle Housing Association, together with 
contracts for gas servicing and maintenance for A1 Housing, 
domestic boiler installations for London Borough of Islington, gas 
safety inspections for Lanarkshire Housing Association and a 
framework win for major works for London Borough of Southwark.
H2O Nationwide performed well in the year, delivering continued 
organic growth and re-securing a key contract with Unite 
Housing. It achieved its first cross-selling success, winning a 
contract to provide water treatment to Arun District Council, a gas 
compliance customer introduced by K&T Heating. The business 
also entered the social housing market when it was appointed  
to a framework for Efficiency East Midlands, working alongside 
Foster Property Maintenance and Sure Maintenance in this 
procurement network. 
We believe that as a consequence of new contract wins and 
complementary acquisitions, we have achieved critical mass,  
both in terms of geographic coverage and scale of engineers  
we employ directly. Our Compliance division now offers a 
comprehensive range of services which we are developing into a 
single Lakehouse offering, with delivery supported by our Impact 
Response system and our Customer Journey initiative. We are 
now raising customer awareness of our offering and reviewing 
with them how we can meet all their compliance needs. 
Acquisitions since 1 October 2014
H2O Nationwide
Water and air hygiene
Head office: Basildon
Year established: 1998
Date acquired: 6 October 2014
Employees: 40 (at time of acquisition)
Aaron Services
Gas servicing and maintenance
Head office: Ipswich
Year established: 1985
Date acquired: 2 November 2015
Employees: 390 (at time of acquisition)
Precision Lifts
Lift installation and maintenance
Head office: Upminster
Year established: 1996
Date acquired: 9 December 2015
Employees: 69 (at time of acquisition)
Sure Maintenance
Gas servicing and maintenance
Head office: Liverpool 
Year established: 2001
Date acquired: 14 September 2015
Employees: 370 (at time of acquisition)
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
27 Energy Services
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Revenue (£m) 68.1 22.9 196.6%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 9.6 2.8 244.1%
Underlying EBITA margin 14.1% 12.1% 200bps
Energy Services provides a range of energy efficiency services  
for social housing and private homes. The division also uses these 
services to deliver carbon emissions savings for energy companies, 
enabling them to meet their legislative targets. In addition, the 
division offers renewable technologies, smart metering services 
and energy brokerage to customers throughout the UK.
Revenue grew to £68.1m from £22.9m year on year and this was 
primarily due to our first full year of ownership of Everwarm, which 
we bought in April 2014. Previously, we had only a sub-scale 
presence in the English market. 
Improved labour utilisation afforded by a higher level of activity, 
together with a full year contribution from Everwarm and the  
Energy (South) business turning from loss to profit in the year,  
saw underlying EBITA margins rise from 12.1% to 14.1%. Providor 
and Orchard Energy made small contributions after integration 
costs and both have showed significant early opportunities.
In May 2015, the division expanded its nascent smart-meter 
installation business with the acquisition of Providor and in July 
2015 acquired Orchard Energy, a leading UK energy procurement 
and advisory service provider. We have made further progress 
expanding Energy Services in England including being appointed 
to the RE:NEW framework in London. RE:NEW is the Mayor’s 
programme to help make London’s homes more energy efficient 
and has the capacity to deliver up to £1.6bn of energy upgrades.  
In addition, we secured a place on both the Fusion 21 and Eastern 
Procurement frameworks for energy services. We are also gaining 
traction with local authority and social housing customers who wish 
to explore our solutions and ability to obtain funding for them from 
the major energy companies. Key highlights this year included 
£14m of new wins in London and the South East, including notable 
contracts with the London Borough of Camden and a three year 
contract with the London Borough of Brent. 
We have very strong relationships with five of the Big Six energy 
utility companies and the key independent energy utility companies, 
and continue to help them meet their environmental obligations.  
We have negotiated contract extensions into 2016 and developed 
relationships with several smaller independent utility companies, 
who will play a larger role in the coming years. We are already 
delivering contracts for energy saving measures and metering  
for these independent providers.
Providor is one of the UK’s leading smart-metering specialists.  
It complements our existing energy services offering by giving us 
critical mass in the high growth smart-metering market, which forms 
part of the Government’s £11bn scheme to upgrade the UK’s 
energy infrastructure and improve competition by 2020. We are 
pleased with the growth in Providor’s order book since acquisition, 
which includes a new 10 year contract with Ovo Energy.
Orchard Energy is a leading UK energy procurement and advisory 
service provider which works with corporate clients to manage their 
energy costs, particularly energy supply and usage. In addition, it 
provides energy management services to commercial and industrial 
customers including brokering supply with utilities firms, managing 
contracts and advising on energy consumption. The acquisition 
enhances our offering to social housing clients who are keen to 
address fuel poverty. We are now introducing Orchard Energy to 
our Regeneration customers who wish to explore how they and 
their residents can benefit from cheaper energy.
The Group holds a one-third share in the Warmworks joint venture 
along with Changeworks and the Energy Saving Trust. During the 
year, Warmworks was awarded a national fuel poverty scheme 
funded by the Scottish Government and worth up to £224m in  
total over a period of up to seven years. A proportion of this sum  
is being deployed directly on energy saving measures delivered  
by Everwarm. The contract started in September 2015, on target 
with the expectations set out by Scottish Government and initial 
volumes have been in line with expectations. 
The division has made good progress this year despite the  
energy sector experiencing some well publicised challenges in the 
period, particularly around UK Government policy towards energy 
efficiency and the funding policies that underpin the sector. As we 
moved into the final phase of current policy and the obligations 
placed on utility companies relaxed, we saw pressure on carbon 
prices impacting in the final quarter of the year, which had a 
consequential effect on margins. We expect 2016 to be a transition 
year from the existing energy company obligation to the new policy, 
which starts in April 2017. 
While acknowledging the challenges arising from this evolving 
market, we believe that the market drivers remain: to improve 
energy efficiency across the UK housing stock and address fuel 
poverty. To deliver such a wide and complex challenge will require 
organisations with the necessary expertise and bandwidth.  
We have strengthened our Energy Services offering accordingly  
by acquiring complementary businesses and extending our 
capabilities – we remain well positioned to deliver on our strategy.
Acquisitions since 1 October 2014
Orchard Energy
Energy procurement/advisory
Head office: Elland, West Yorkshire 
Year established: 2004
Date acquired: 13 July 2015
Employees: 78 (at time of acquisition)
Providor
Smart metering 
Head office: Newmarket
Year established: 1998
Date acquired: 6 May 2015
Employees: 130 (at time of acquisition)
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 28
Chief Executive Officer’s 
Divisional review 
continued Order book
Our bidding and estimating teams have continued to perform well, 
with new contract wins totalling £638m secured in the period. 
The focus on long term contractual relationships has led to all four 
divisions increasing the number of frameworks they are appointed 
to, which has in turn contributed to growth in our order book to 
£595m, an increase of £92m since December 2014.
Our sales pipeline remains robust at £2.8bn of identified  
Pre Qualification Questionnaire (‘PQQ’) and tender opportunities. 
The fragmented nature of our markets, combined with our still 
relatively small market share, underlines the scale of opportunity 
available to each of our divisions. 
In addition, a key driver for organic growth is our ability to 
cross-sell our services across the Group’s clients and we  
have identified a number from each division where we are 
introducing other services alongside those we are already 
successfully providing. 
Construction 
Financial year ended 30 September 2015 2015 2014 Change 
Underlying Revenue (£m) 73.4 78.5 (6.5)%
Underlying EBITA (£m) 4.8 2.5 90.5%
Underlying EBITA margin 6.6% 3.2% 340bps
The Construction division offers refurbishment and small to 
medium-sized public building works, predominantly for local 
authority clients. The division focuses primarily on clients  
in the education sector, although it also delivers works to a  
range of other public buildings.
Full year underlying revenues declined overall, reflecting the exit 
last year from our social housing development activities, further 
details of which are outlined in Notes 4 and 7. Our core education 
business grew by 12%, as we saw the benefit of higher value 
work secured on our frameworks in London. 
The improvement in underlying margins reflected our focus  
on small to medium-sized education projects, where we can 
effectively balance risk and return, along with the exit from our 
social housing development business (which generated a loss  
of £1.2m in the underlying results for 2014).
During the year, we were reappointed to the Hampshire County 
Council framework and secured a place on the Local Government 
Shared Services (LGSS) framework with Northamptonshire and 
Cambridgeshire County Councils. We were also appointed to  
the Kent County Council Principal Contractors framework, the 
Gloucester County Council Major Construction Contract and the 
South Hunsley National framework for small to medium works. 
We were pleased to secure the first two projects under the LGSS 
framework at Silverstone School and Radstone Fields School.  
We also saw the strengthening of relationships with London 
Borough of Richmond upon Thames, after winning the Russell 
and Strathmore School expansion project. We secured new 
schemes with Bromley Council at Midfield, Glebe and Edgebury 
Schools, two of which are under the Lewisham Pupil Places 
framework. There remains a large pipeline of opportunities  
for the division. 
Utilising the East London Solutions framework, we won contracts 
with Newham Council at Salisbury, West Ham Church and 
Ranalagh schools. We also successfully delivered the first 
London Construction Programme project at Bounds Green 
School. In addition, we secured our first projects for City of 
Westminster College (Maida Vale Campus) and Ellen Wilkinson 
School in Ealing.
A key driver for the division is the continued shortage of primary 
school places, which requires investment in new school buildings 
to meet demand. The scale of this demand means we are able to 
remain selective about the new opportunities we pursue. High 
customer satisfaction also leads to good levels of repeat business 
and we continue to secure new framework wins.
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
29
