  
 
I am pleased to report  
that we delivered a good 
operational and financial 
performance during a  
year of important change.  
As well as our successful 
IPO in March 2015, we 
made excellent progress 
with our organic and 
acquisitive growth 
strategy, completing  
four value-enhancing 
acquisitions in the period.
Stuart Black
Executive Chairman
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015 12
Executive 
Chairman’s 
Statement Introduction
I am pleased to report that we delivered a good operational  
and financial performance during a year of important change.  
As well as our successful IPO in March 2015, we made excellent 
progress with our organic and acquisitive growth strategy, 
completing four value enhancing acquisitions in the period.
Our focus on customers lies at the heart of our success.  
It ensures we meet their needs through great service, which  
in turn supports our organic growth, our ability to cross-sell and 
our geographic expansion. Consistent delivery underpins both  
our strategy and our financial performance.
Trading performance
Our results for the year demonstrate organic growth and the 
success of recent acquisitions. We increased underlying revenue 
by 11.3% to £336.6m (2014: £302.5m) with organic revenue up 
2.5%. The results included the first full year of Everwarm (acquired 
in April 2014) and H2O Nationwide (acquired in early October 
2014), along with a small contribution from Providor, Orchard 
Energy and Sure Maintenance, all of which were acquired in the 
second half of the year. Revenue was £340.2m (2014: £302.5m).
Underlying EBITA increased significantly to £22.2m (2014: 
£10.8m), representing an improved margin of 6.6% (2014:  
3.6%). Underlying profit before tax increased 114.2% to £21.6m 
(2014: £10.1m). Underlying profit after tax was £17.5m (2014: 
£8.8m), resulting in underlying basic earnings per share of 13.7p 
(2014: 11.7p). Profit after tax was £2.4m (2014: loss of £(0.4)m), 
resulting in basic earnings per share of 1.9p (2014: loss of (0.5)p).
We were successful in winning new work. Our contract wins  
in the year totalled £638m (2014: £364.5m), contributing to  
a year-end order book of £595m (December 2014: £503m  
which represents the first month we prepared comparable data). 
Our strong balance sheet provides the financial resources to 
implement our strategy. At 30 September 2015, the Group had  
net cash of £6.6m (2014: net debt of £7.2m), reflecting the net 
proceeds from our IPO and our strong underlying operating cash 
conversion of 115% (2014: 143%), which was ahead of our long 
term sustainable target of 80%. We also strengthened the Group’s 
financial position ahead of the IPO with a new £30m revolving credit 
facility from the Royal Bank of Scotland, which gave us additional 
resources to support our strategic acquisition programme. Since  
the end of the year, we have extended this facility to £45m in order  
to finance future corporate development activity. 
Strategy
Lakehouse has an established strategy based on organic growth 
supplemented by value-enhancing acquisitions. Our aim is to 
create a sustainable business that delivers profitable growth, whilst 
being robust throughout the changing economic cycle. We aim to 
do this by developing a broad business which is less susceptible  
to challenges in any one geographic region, commercial market or 
service. We have also improved the visibility of revenues and profits 
by building an order book based on frameworks and invested time 
and money in enhancing the visibility of our opportunity pipeline.
In parallel, our plan is to deliver improved returns through moving 
into higher margin areas, increasing self-delivery and emphasising 
strong financial controls and efficiencies, with the aim of building 
further resilience into our business model.
Our structure of four divisions has helped us determine where we 
want to grow and will seek to invest, both organically and through 
acquisition. We expect to focus on opportunities in Compliance 
and Energy Services in the short term, Regeneration in the 
medium term, while Construction will focus on delivering the right 
balance of risk and return. The divisional structure, along with our 
established network of business relationships, enables us to 
identify quickly potential complementary acquisitions which can 
provide additional cross-selling opportunities and new services.
IPO
We are delighted with the success of our IPO and the support 
from our new institutional shareholders. The IPO raised net  
cash proceeds of £24.6m, after costs of £5.4m, to provide the 
resources we need to continue to implement our growth strategy. 
Sound corporate governance structures have always been an 
element of the Lakehouse culture. As part of the IPO, we were 
pleased to further strengthen the Board with the appointment  
of Chris Geoghegan, as our Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, together with Johnathan Ford and Jill Ainscough as 
Independent Non-Executive Directors. We are already benefiting 
from their wealth of experience, from both public company and 
commercial backgrounds.
As part of enhancing our governance we formed a Risk Committee, 
which reports to the Audit Committee, and reviews all aspects of 
operational and strategic risk across the business.
Dividend
As Admission took place just before the half year, we did not declare 
a dividend for the six months ended 31 March 2015. The Board has 
adopted a progressive dividend policy and has proposed a dividend  
of 1.9p per share for the second half which, subject to shareholder 
approval, will be paid on 8 February 2016 to shareholders on the 
register at 8 January 2016. Our aim is to reward our investors while 
retaining capital to invest in our long term growth. 
People
I want to thank everyone in Lakehouse for their hard work and 
contribution to this year’s performance. Over the year and 
following the two acquisitions post year end, our employee base 
has more than doubled to over 2,400 as we increasingly move 
towards a self-delivery model. All the businesses we bought this 
year and since year-end are self-delivery and, collectively, they 
brought some 1,250 people into the Group.
We continue to invest heavily in our people, giving them the  
skills they need to deliver for our customers and advance their 
own careers. The IPO also allows our people to benefit from  
our success through our Save As You Earn scheme. Giving our 
people a sense of ownership is a key part of our culture. To this 
end, at the time of Admission we awarded all our employees an 
allocation of shares under the Group’s Share Incentive Plan.
Outlook
We aim to benefit all our stakeholders. Delivering great service  
to our customers and developing and retaining our employees 
ultimately translates into value for our shareholders.
There is significant growth for us to go for in the coming years  
as we remain a small player in large and fragmented markets. 
Reflecting the scale of this opportunity, our pipeline stood at 
£2.8bn at the year end. We will continue to deepen our presence 
in our existing markets, while implementing our strategy of 
broadening the business and opening up new routes to growth.
With our robust order book and sales pipeline, together with our 
recent successful acquisitions of Aaron Services and Precision 
Lifts, the Board remains confident of its expectations for the 
current year and the future.
Stuart Black 
Executive Chairman
9 December 2015
Lakehouse plc Annual Report 2015
Overview Performance Strategic review Governance Financial statements
13
Welcome to our first  
Annual Report.
