 At a glance
Kurt Salmon
Innovating for growth
Alexander Proudfoot
Building a firm platform
MCG operates through two independently managed practices: 
Alexander Proudfoot and Kurt Salmon. We seek to enable both 
practices to progress to their fullest potential – distinctly, 
but in tandem – creating maximum shareholder value.
02
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Kurt Salmon has benefited from its increasing 
expertise in digital transformation, helping clients 
across a range of industries to adapt their strategy 
and operations to the digital world.
Alexander Proudfoot’s powerful core offering 
is being expanded and developed in new 
directions to increase its flexibility and focus 
in response to client demand.
 Retail / 82%
 Healthcare / 18%
 
 Natural resources / 45%
 Industrials and utilities / 40%
 Financial / 7%
 Healthcare / 2%
 Retail / 6%
Revenue by sector (continuing operations) Revenue by sector
Through our deep expertise and innovative solutions, 
Kurt Salmon can deliver the building blocks of success 
in the 21st century. We understand that tomorrow’s 
organisation needs a different approach to formulating 
strategy. Kurt Salmon helps its clients to deliver: 
 – operations that are lean and efficient yet agile and 
capable of adjusting quickly to changing circumstances;
 – information technology that facilitates the future and 
is not constrained by the present; and
 – people who are engaged, inspired and innovative.
We work in the field, deploying teams quickly to our clients’ 
operational sites, wherever in the world they may be. 
We have a flexible approach tailoring our core methodology 
to the requirements of each project.
We work alongside client staff, engaging with them, to install 
performance programmes that deliver rapid and sustainable 
operational and financial improvements.
Our expertise Our expertise
Read more about 
Alexander Proudfoot p16
Read more about 
Kurt Salmon p12
03
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report
