 Chief Executive’s review
Nick Stagg
The Group’s reported results in 2015 reflect the impact of the Disposal 
of a substantial part of the Kurt Salmon operations, which was announced 
in November 2015 and completed on 7 January 2016. The continuing 
operations of the Group comprise the retained Kurt Salmon business, 
focused on the global retail and consumer goods sector, and 
Alexander Proudfoot.
Overview 
The Group’s reported results in 2015 reflect 
the impact of the Disposal of a substantial 
part of the Kurt Salmon operations, to Solucom, 
which was announced in November 2015 and 
completed on 7 January 2016 (“the Disposal”). 
The results of the businesses which have 
been sold are reported in the 2015 Group 
financial statements (and in the restated 2014 
results) as discontinued operations. Reported 
discontinued operations in 2015 also reflect 
most of the financial effects of the Disposal 
and include related non-recurring items. 
The commentary below on the 2015 results 
(and 2014 comparatives) chiefly relates to 
the retained Kurt Salmon business and 
Alexander Proudfoot, which are reported 
in the 2015 Group financial statements 
as continuing operations. 
The Kurt Salmon businesses which were sold 
comprised the French operations and those 
operations in other geographies closely 
related to the French operations, namely 
the Kurt Salmon businesses in Belgium, 
Luxembourg, Switzerland and Morocco 
together with two New York-based practices 
within the larger Kurt Salmon operations 
in the United States. The majority of the 
Kurt Salmon operations in the United States 
have been retained by MCG. The Board 
concluded that the Disposal provided an 
opportunity to exit from the French and 
related operations at an attractive price for 
shareholders, given the limited potential for 
investment and growth in these operations 
as part of the MCG Group, thus reducing the 
Group’s significant exposure to the French 
market, and allowing MCG to repay its 
bank borrowings.
As a result of the Disposal, the proportion of 
the Group’s business which is derived from 
France and Continental Europe has reduced, 
and the relative proportion of the Group’s 
revenues from other markets, in particular 
  Revenues from continuing operations 
lower at £138.9m, reflecting weakness 
in Alexander Proudfoot
 Underlying operating profit from 
continuing operations lower at 
£0.8m, reflecting £6.1m profit in 
Kurt Salmon offset by loss-making 
Alexander Proudfoot
 The Group is debt free and in a 
strong financial position following 
completion of the Disposal
Highlights
08
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report North America, has increased. This is consistent 
with the Board’s strategy to focus on higher 
growth opportunities in North America and 
Asia. The Kurt Salmon business that the 
Group has retained is focused largely on serving 
global clients in the retail and consumer goods 
sector, where the business is a market leader.
MCG operates globally with 93% of 2015 
revenues from continuing operations generated 
outside the UK. The same proportion of the 
Group’s revenues from continuing operations 
in the year were billed in currencies other 
than Sterling, with the US Dollar representing 
approximately 65% of the total.
Continuing operations
The performance of the Group’s continuing 
operations in 2015 was affected by significantly 
weaker revenues in Alexander Proudfoot, 
which delivered a loss for the year as a whole. 
Reported revenues in the retained Kurt Salmon 
business were higher than in the previous 
year, although its margins were weaker. 
Total revenue from continuing operations 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 
£138.9m, 4.8% lower than the previous 
year (2014: £145.9m). 
The Group’s underlying operating profit from 
continuing operations in 2015 was £0.8m 
(2014: £7.7m), the reduction principally 
reflecting the impact of lower revenues and 
margins in Alexander Proudfoot, which report 
an underlying operating loss for the year as 
a whole of £5.3m (2014: £1.6m). Underlying 
operating profit in the retained Kurt Salmon 
business was lower than the previous year 
at £6.1m (2014: £9.3m).
“As a result of the Disposal, the proportion of the Group’s business which is derived 
from France and Continental Europe has reduced, and the relative proportion of the 
Group’s revenues from other markets, in particular North America, has increased. 
This is consistent with the Board’s strategy to focus on higher growth opportunities 
in North America and Asia. The Kurt Salmon business that the Group has retained 
is focused largely on serving global clients in the retail and consumer goods sector, 
where the business is a market leader.”
Nick Stagg Chief Executive
Underlying operating profit for 2015 reflects 
a charge of £1.2m relating to share awards 
made to employees (2014: £2.4m). Share 
awards have been made to promote retention 
and to improve employee alignment with 
shareholder value creation. 
As a consequence of the Disposal, in order 
to stabilise and motivate senior employees 
of the continuing operations of the Group, 
the Board has implemented a significant 
share-based retention plan focused on the 
retained Kurt Salmon business which has 
resulted, in January 2016, with the issue of 
further awards to employees over 42.4 million 
shares, normally vesting after three years. 
The total number of outstanding unvested 
awards to employees which are subject only 
to retention criteria is currently approximately 
58.6 million, of which 3.5 million are due to 
vest in 2016 (subject to continued employment). 
The Group’s employee benefits trusts currently 
hold 4.3 million shares, and the Group has 
shareholder approval to issue up to a further 
3.0 million new shares in order to satisfy 
vesting share awards. A further 2.4 million 
treasury shares are held by the Group. 
The Group is reporting net non-recurring 
expenses relating to continuing operations of 
£0.2m in 2015 (2014: £2.5m). These comprise 
restructuring-related redundancy costs of 
£1.1m, principally in Alexander Proudfoot, 
offset by the release of provisions of £0.9m 
relating to surplus property as a result of the 
Group rationalising its office accommodation 
in London and Atlanta.
The charge for amortisation of acquired 
intangibles in relation to continuing operations 
was £0.6m (2014: £0.8m). Consequently 
there was a loss from continuing operations 
of £0.1m (2014: £4.3m profit). 
Kurt Salmon 
The Digital World
Alexander Proudfoot 
New market offerings
Kurt Salmon is benefiting from 
its increasing expertise in digital 
transformation, helping clients across 
a range of industries to adapt their strategy 
and operations to the digital world.
Alexander Proudfoot’s powerful 
core offering is being expanded 
and developed in new directions 
to increase its flexibility and focus 
in response to client demand.
Read more about 
Alexander Proudfoot p16
Read more about 
Kurt Salmon p12
09
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report Chief Executive’s review continued
Nick Stagg
Continuing operations continued
The net interest expense from continuing 
operations was higher at £3.7m (2014: £1.5m). 
In accordance with IAS 19 the reported net 
interest charge for 2015 includes an imputed 
charge in relation to defined benefit pensions 
of £1.7m (2014: £0.8m). 
The loss before tax on continuing operations 
was £3.7m (2014: £2.8m profit). The tax 
charge on continuing operations was £4.0m 
(2014: £4.9m), of which approximately £1.2m 
relates to the utilisation of losses reflected 
as a deferred tax asset and which therefore 
does not represent a cash tax outflow. 
The continuing high tax charge in 2015 reflects 
the impact of unrelieved losses in certain 
jurisdictions driven largely by loss-making 
operations, the impact of project specific 
withholding takes in Alexander Proudfoot and 
the effects of higher tax rates and certain 
taxable intra-group dividends in Kurt Salmon. 
Discontinued operations
The Disposal was completed on 7 January 2016 
but the transaction was sufficiently advanced 
as at 31 December 2015 to warrant treatment 
as a discontinued operation under IFRS 5 
“Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations”.
Discontinued operations comprise the 
underlying operating results for the year of 
the Kurt Salmon businesses which were part 
of the Disposal, the loss on sale related to the 
impairment of goodwill, and non-recurring items 
related to the operations of the businesses 
concerned and the Disposal itself. 
Revenues from discontinued operations in 2015 
were £91.5m (2014: £96.9m). Underlying 
operating profit from discontinued operations 
in 2015 was £4.8m (2014: £4.2m). Non-recurring 
expenses related to discontinued operations 
were £6.6m (2014: £0.4m), comprising 
severance costs relating to Chiheb Mahjoub 
of £2.0m, other non-recurring employee-related 
costs of £3.6m, and expenses related to share 
awards of £1.0m. Net finance costs relating 
to discontinued operations were £1.5m 
(2014: £1.6m) and the tax charge relating 
to discontinued operations was £1.2m 
(2014: £1.0m). Consequently the loss after 
taxation from discontinued operations for 
the period was £4.4m (2014: £1.1m profit). 
The loss on Disposal of £53.4m reported in 
the loss from discontinued operations line 
within the 2015 Group income statement 
arose as a result of the impairment of 
goodwill relating to the Kurt Salmon businesses 
which have been sold. The cash proceeds paid 
by the acquiror at completion were €89.0m 
(equivalent to £65.9m) which included €4.0m 
(equivalent to £3.0m) relating to estimated cash 
balances which remained in the businesses 
disposed of at the completion date. The 
consideration is subject to post-closing 
adjustments relating to amounts of debt, 
debt-like items, provisions and working 
capital at the completion date, and the 
reported loss on Disposal reflects estimates 
of the impact of such post-closing 
adjustments. Goodwill allocated to the 
businesses sold was £106.2m (before 
impairment) and £52.8m after impairment.
Taking into account the discontinued operations 
and the loss on Disposal, there was a total 
loss for the Group for the year attributable to 
the shareholders of £65.5m (2014: £1.0m). 
The underlying loss per share attributable to 
continuing operations was 1.5p (2014: 0.1p) 
and the basic loss per share attributable to 
continuing operations was 1.6p (2014: 0.4p).
Balance sheet and dividend
The Group balance sheet at 31 December 2015 
reflects the impact of the Disposal in January 
2016. The assets and liabilities of the business 
which have been sold are shown in the Group 
balance sheet as assets and liabilities held 
for sale of £91.8m and £33.1m respectively. 
The assets held for sale include the impaired 
goodwill and other intangible assets related 
to the businesses which have been sold 
of £52.8m, and cash balances of £5.3m. 
The net assets of the Group have decreased 
from £197.7m at 31 December 2014 to £129.3m 
at 31 December 2015, chiefly as a result of 
the loss on Disposal and the retained loss for 
the year from continuing operations.
The weak second half revenue performance 
in Alexander Proudfoot resulted in reported 
net debt increasing at the 2015 year end. 
Reported net debt at 31 December 2015 was 
£52.8m, excluding £5.3m of cash balances 
in the Kurt Salmon businesses which have 
been sold. This was £11.1m higher than 
the £41.7m reported at the half-year stage 
(2014 year end: £33.6m). The Group’s bank 
borrowings were repaid in full on 7 January 2016 
from the net proceeds of the Disposal and 
the Group’s existing borrowing facility was 
terminated on that date. The Group has been 
in a net cash position following completion of 
the Disposal on 7 January 2016; net cash at 
the end of February 2016 was £6.1m. The 
Group now has in place a three-year £15m 
working capital facility with HSBC, expiring 
in March 2019. 
The Board announced on 23 November 2015 
that no interim dividend for 2015 would be 
paid in January 2016, given the likely accounting 
impact of the impairment of investments as 
a result of the Disposal on the Company’s 
distributable reserves. The Board has reviewed 
the position following the completion of the 
Disposal and during preparation of the financial 
statements for 2015 and considers that it 
remains likely that it will seek to implement 
a reconstruction of reserves before dividend 
payments are resumed. The Board will 
consider the Company’s future dividend 
policy once this process is complete, and 
in light of the trading performance and 
financial position of the Group at that time.
10
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Summary 
The sale of the French and related operations 
of Kurt Salmon in January 2016 has had a 
significant impact on the reported results for 
2015, although the full effect of the Disposal 
on the Group’s financial position is only partly 
reflected in the Group’s reported balance sheet 
at 31 December 2015, since the payment of 
the consideration and other deal-related cash 
flows did not occur until after the year end. 
The expected financial impact of the Disposal 
is in line with that set out in the circular to 
shareholders dated 30 November 2015.
The reported results for 2015 from the Group’s 
continuing operations, being the Kurt Salmon 
business which the Group has retained, together 
with Alexander Proudfoot, are in line with 
the trading update provided at the time 
of the circular sent to shareholders dated 
30 November 2015. The weak second half 
performance of Alexander Proudfoot has 
been the principal driver of a disappointing 
overall result for the continuing operations 
of the Group. 
The changes to the Alexander Proudfoot business 
launched in 2014 in order to mitigate revenue 
volatility and restore the growth potential 
of the business for the longer term showed 
signs of success in the first half of the year 
in the key North American operations. These 
improvements in North America were not 
sustained in the second half, and the business 
as a whole has also suffered from significantly 
weaker demand from clients in the challenging 
natural resources sector. Alexander Proudfoot 
delivered an underlying operating loss of £5.3m 
for 2015, on revenues of £50.2m. The Board 
remains committed to executing its plan for 
restoring revenue growth and profitability in 
Alexander Proudfoot. 
The retained Kurt Salmon business is primarily 
a leading international consulting business in 
the retail and consumer goods sector, together 
with a successful US consulting business in 
the healthcare sector. Both of these practices 
delivered a satisfactory result in 2015 with 
reported revenues 4.5% higher. Although 
operating profit margins were lower year 
on year, partly as a result of investment in 
recruitment, and the business suffered from 
some weakness mid year, the underlying 
market trends remained positive. The retained 
Kurt Salmon business delivered an underlying 
operating profit of £6.1m for 2015 on revenues 
of £88.8m.
The Disposal has enabled the Group to repay 
bank borrowings in full and so MCG has started 
the current financial year in a strong financial 
position, being cash positive following the 
various cash flows arising as a result of 
completion of the Disposal, and with net 
cash at the end of February 2016 of £6.1m. 
The normal phasing of cash flows means 
that the Group typically experiences net 
cash outflows in the course of the first half 
of the year and a £15m working capital facility 
is in place to support the business through 
this cycle. 
Outlook
Global market conditions are more fragile 
now than a year ago, although following the 
Disposal the Group’s operations are now much 
more weighted towards the North American 
market, where economic indicators have 
remained relatively strong so far. The outlook 
for the Group in 2016 remains uncertain at 
this relatively early stage in the financial year.
The Board expects that Alexander Proudfoot 
will continue to be adversely affected by 
weakness in both emerging markets and 
in the key natural resources sector. Alexander 
Proudfoot currently has a more promising 
order book and pipeline than we have seen 
during the previous nine months, but activity 
levels are still well below those which the 
business has achieved in the past and at this 
stage the outlook remains uncertain. As a 
consequence, revenue is unlikely to quickly 
recover to historic levels. However the Board 
remains confident that in the medium term 
the changes made to the business will in time 
build a firm platform for growth and profitability.
The Kurt Salmon business is now largely 
focused on the global retail and consumer 
goods sector, together with a smaller US 
based healthcare business. The retail and 
consumer goods practice has had a good 
start to the year, particularly in the US, and 
current market trends remain positive for 
2016 as a whole. 
The Group will continue to consider 
opportunities to further invest in and grow 
the Group’s remaining businesses while 
remaining alert to all opportunities to 
generate value for shareholders. 
Nick Stagg
Chief Executive
21 March 2016
11
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report
