 Chairman’s statement
Alan Barber
2015 was an important year for MCG which delivered significant changes 
to the structure and financial position of the Group. In November we 
announced the sale of a substantial part of the Kurt Salmon operations, 
principally those in France. The Kurt Salmon business which the Group has 
retained is focused on serving global clients in the retail and consumer 
goods sectors where it is a recognised market leader. With this enhanced 
focus and without the burden of indebtedness at the Group level we are 
now well placed to drive an improving performance.
2015 was an important year for MCG which 
delivered significant changes both to the 
structure and financial position of the Group. 
In November we announced the sale of a 
substantial part of the Kurt Salmon operations, 
principally those in France, together with 
certain related operations in Europe and the 
United States. The net proceeds from this 
disposal, which completed in early January 
2016, were equivalent to more than 80% of 
the Group’s market capitalisation and allowed 
the Group to repay all of its bank borrowings. 
Our reported results for 2015 reflect much 
of the one-off impact of this transaction.
The Kurt Salmon business retained by the 
Group, in Europe, North America and Asia, 
is focused on serving global clients in the 
retail and consumer goods sectors, where 
it is a recognised market leader, and its 
successful US healthcare consulting practice. 
With this enhanced focus in the Kurt Salmon 
business and without the burden of indebtedness 
at the Group level we are now well placed 
to drive an improving performance in 
Kurt Salmon, and to continue to explore a 
range of opportunities both to create shareholder 
value and to provide a rewarding future for 
the hugely talented group of partners and 
staff in the Kurt Salmon business.
We remain committed to aligning reward for 
our employees with shareholder value creation. 
As a consequence of the disposal of the 
French and other operations, the Board 
has implemented a significant retention 
plan focused on the continuing Kurt Salmon 
business in order to stabilise and motivate 
our people. This is based principally on 
a one-off share award programme, over 
approximately 42 million shares with a 
three-year vesting period. 
  Sale of the French and related 
operations of Kurt Salmon 
completed in January 2016
 Net proceeds from the disposal 
equivalent to more than 80% of 
the Group’s market capitalisation
 The Group has used the net proceeds 
to repay all bank borrowings
 Reported results for 2015 reflect 
much of the one-off impact of 
this transaction
Highlights
06
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Strategic report Alexander Proudfoot had a very difficult year 
in 2015. The North American operations delivered 
an improved performance in the first half, 
but weaker revenues in that business and 
in other geographies in the second half led 
to Alexander Proudfoot reporting a loss for 
the year as a whole. Lower levels of activity 
in the key natural resources sector contributed 
to the poor performance. A number of important 
changes to the business were made during 2015 
however there is more work to do to rebuild 
revenues and profitability. Alexander Proudfoot 
has had a better start to 2016 although we 
are at a very early stage in relation to the 
outcome for the year as a whole.
“Following the disposal of parts of the Kurt Salmon business the Group 
is smaller, but more focused, and debt free. The Board of MCG will 
continue to promote profitable growth in our operations and will 
remain alert to all opportunities to generate value from the Group’s 
portfolio of businesses.”
Alan Barber Chairman
Chiheb Mahjoub and Andrew Simon stepped 
down from the Board of MCG after we reached 
agreement on the sale of part of the Kurt Salmon 
business and I would like to thank them for 
their valuable contributions to the sale process, 
and to the Group over their many years of 
service. Stephen Ferriss will step down at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting following 
ten years of sterling service and I am delighted 
that Nigel Halkes, a former Managing Partner 
at Ernst & Young, has joined the Board as a 
non-executive director and has become Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. I am pleased 
that the Board has asked me to remain as 
Chairman and we have agreed, subject to my 
reappointment at the AGM that I will continue 
in my role until my retirement in 2017.
As a result of the disposal of parts of the 
Kurt Salmon business the Group is smaller, 
but more focused, and debt free. The Board 
of MCG will continue to promote profitable 
growth in our operations and will remain alert 
to all opportunities to generate value from the 
Group’s portfolio of businesses.
Alan Barber
Chairman
21 March 2016
07
Management Consulting Group PLC  
Annual report and accounts 2015
Governance Financials Strategic report
