 MartinCo PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 4
As we approach the  
30th anniversary of the 
founding of Martin & Co 
it gives me great 
satisfaction to look back 
over events that have 
structured our thinking 
and that have enabled us 
to develop our network 
and thus deliver yet 
another year of 
consistent and  
reliable growth.
When the economy emerged from the 
recession of the early 1990s it became 
evident to me that the traditional agency 
business model was outmoded and there was 
therefore a need for us to develop stability 
and consistency in our business. It had to 
have a solid lettings portfolio as its bedrock 
so it could deliver reliable and repeat income 
streams. In addition it needed to lose its 
cumbersome cost base which had become its 
Achilles heel during the routine cyclical 
slumps in the residential sales market. Hence 
the birth of our franchise model which 
delivers reliable “triple ring fenced” repeat 
income streams without the capital exposure 
of the traditional model for our sector.
Many factors which influenced the growth of 
the “buy-to-let” market (as it became known) 
remain, but these have an even greater 
impact today. A rapidly increasing population, 
growing pressure on the housing stock with 
the volume of new builds failing to meet 
Government annual targets, social mobility 
and employment instability, increased single 
occupancy households and inability to raise 
mortgage finance to name but a few.
Today the private residential lettings sector is 
maturing and we have built a managed 
portfolio of over 45,000 units which provides 
our bedrock and secures our position as a 
leading national player. We envisage further 
growth in lettings as the appetite for 
institutional investment develops. This will 
allow residential property to become a more 
reliable asset class as more sophisticated 
clients seek expertise and uniform service 
delivery on a national scale.
With the task of building our lettings business 
well advanced, we are delighted now to be 
able to provide more focus on residential 
sales. The wealth of sales expertise that came 
with our acquisition of the Xperience brands 
and the many exceptional agency businesses 
that came with that acquisition, have started 
to yield returns as we integrate them into the 
Group. Furthermore, we are seeing positive 
results from introducing our lettings 
expertise into the Xperience brands.  
This will help to provide equilibrium in the 
split between sales and lettings across our 
Group and to counter the cyclical nature of 
the sales sector.
In addition to our national Martin & Co brand, 
the Group now includes the recently-acquired, 
long-established regional brands of CJ Hole, 
Whitegates, Ellis & Co and Parkers, each with 
a long and proud history of serving the 
community within their respective territories. 
We aim to use our franchising know-how to 
reinvigorate these brands, to regain their 
former position and to capitalise on the latent 
value embedded within their long-standing 
multi-generational presence.
Despite an apparent threat from new 
technology, we firmly believe the success-
only charging structure from a locally based 
agent will survive the threat from online 
agencies. This is because delivery of both a 
sales and lettings service have powerful local 
elements which cannot adequately be 
replicated online across the whole market.
Regardless of minor regulatory or fiscal 
adjustments, the demand for property within 
the UK regardless of tenure has never been 
greater. I have great confidence in the future 
for the MartinCo Plc Group.
My thanks go to the executive, their teams 
and my fellow Board members for their 
outstanding efforts over the last year.
I am delighted to announce that the Board 
has recommended a final dividend of 4.1p per 
ordinary share for 2015.
The Strategic Report is contained 
on pages 6 to 17. It was approved 
by the Board on 4 April 2016.
Richard Martin
Chairman
MartinCo PLC
Strong strategy and 
consistent application 
of franchising principles.
Chairman’s statement Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview
MartinCo PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5 MartinCo PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5
Tenanted managed 
properties 
45,000 
+6%
All properties let 
31,573  
+17%
Properties sold 
7,689  
+249%
In detail
Adding value  
through data mining
Control of numbers is important to any 
business owner and we collect raw data 
from our entire network every month so 
that we can assess trends and measure 
progress against our own KPIs. Over time, 
we have developed a range of 
performance norms which means we can 
respond quickly to adverse variances and 
help franchisees to identify where 
intervention is necessary. Intervention 
could be a visit from one of our highly 
qualified support staff, or attendance at a 
training course. We are able to issue a 
regular ‘Health Check’ to our network 
identifying adverse indicators, and how 
much additional income could be gained 
by corrective action.
For example, with a portfolio of over 
45,000 properties under management, we 
understand how portfolios behave, how 
many tenancies are renewed, vacated and 
relet to new tenants, or lost due to 
landlords selling or moving back in. We 
call this portfolio attrition, and 
understanding adverse variances is key to 
maximising income from this valuable 
opportunity.
Properties listed  
for sale
14,059  
+147% MartinCo PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6
Macro-economic drivers 
of private rented sector 
remain in place.
Market opportunities
The powerful success story of the resurgent private  
rented sector, rising from 9% of total UK housing stock  
in the early 1990s to an estimated 20% today, driven by 
private landlords.
The key driving macro-economic factors
Stored equity 
There is an estimated £2,000bn of  
equity stored in the UK housing stock 
unencumbered by mortgages, with 
another £2,000bn of equity in mortgaged 
stock, of which £1,000bn is owner-
occupied and £1,000bn is privately 
rented*.  
There is potential for older owners of 
unmortgaged property to downsize and 
release equity to acquire a buy-to-let 
investment for income.
*Savills Residential Property Focus 2016 Issue 1
Pension reform 
Pension reform has enabled the over-55s 
to access retirement funds, which can be 
used as a deposit on a buy-to-let property. 
This group will be responsible for 3 million 
future property deals, with nearly 40% of 
homeowners planning at least one more 
property purchase*.
*Prudential
Buy-to-let 
mortgage availability
Over 1,000 buy-to-let mortgage products 
are currently available, with record low 
interest rates available on fixed term loans 
for up to 5 years. Many mortgages are 
available with terms of up to 35 years and 
with upper age limits of 70 years old.
Net migration 
at a record high
Net migration to the UK in 2014/15 was 
338,000 – a new high. The foreign-born 
UK population has lower home ownership 
rates (43%) and is almost 3 times as likely 
to be in the private rented sector (39%)*.
*Office for National Statistics
First-time buyers 
at the limit
House prices for first-time buyers hit a 
record high in August, with the typical 
first-time buyer paying 3.8% more than in 
2014. The average first-time buyer now 
earns £50,000 per annum (UK average 
earnings £25,000) and pays a deposit of 
£33,000 on a property worth £190,000).
A high performing 
asset class
Independent research we commissioned 
showed the total returns from buy-to-let 
as an asset class ranged from 6.4% to 
13.2% per annum, depending on region, 
over the 10 years to 2014, exceeding 
returns from stocks and shares, which 
averaged 0.5% per annum. Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview
MartinCo PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
The key driving opportunities
Enlarged private rented 
sector
The private rented sector has grown  
from a low of 9% to almost 20% of UK 
stock, overtaking the social housing sector, 
with 5.4 million privately rented homes  
in 2014 expected to reach 7.2 million  
by 2025*.
*PwC UK Economic Outlook July 2015
Increased regulation 
Government is increasing regulation on 
landlords. Deposits must be registered, 
new health and safety rules for rented 
homes, and checks on a tenant’s “right to 
rent” in the UK and licensing in Wales. 
These changes favour agents.
On-line advertising 
Tenants search for properties on-line,  
and the three largest property portals 
Rightmove plc, Zoopla and On the Market 
do not allow private advertisers. As one of 
the largest property groups we enjoy 
preferential terms.
Fragmented market 
There are estimated to be 16,000 estate 
agents and 20,000 letting agents in the 
UK. Of these only 7 organisations have 
more than 100 offices. There are an 
estimated 20 property franchise systems. 
Consolidation opportunities exist.
Multiple brands 
Each of our five brands has an established 
track record – the youngest, Martin & Co, 
itself has been trading for 30 years. 
We believe that each brand is capable of 
further expansion and that our growing 
cities could support 2 and in places  
3 brands.
Rise of franchising 
There are now three AIM-listed property 
franchisors with almost 700 offices 
between them. The combination of 
corporate infrastructure to support highly 
incentivised individual owner/managers 
trading under a recognised brand name 
has proven to be a powerful one.
