 MartinCo PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12
30 years in the  
private rented  
sector.
Chief Executive’s statement
As a group, most of our 
income is derived from 
letting and managing 
properties in the private 
rented sector.
The sector has been resurgent over the last 
30 years, income from tenanted properties is 
predictable, seasonal fluctuations in letting 
transactions are modest and well 
understood by the management, and 
lettings, unlike house sales, has not suffered 
from economic cycles.
The private rented sector has been very 
effective in providing housing solutions for 
those unable to buy a home, and as such the 
sector has doubled in the last 20 years, 
organically and with no government support. 
Individuals have invested in the buy-to-let 
sector out of their own pocket, made more 
attractive by allowing the interest on a 
buy-to-let loan to be offset as an expense 
against income.
In fact independent research, which we 
commissioned and published in 2015 to 
coincide with the pension reforms launch on 
1 April 2015, highlighted that a wholly cash 
funded investment in a buy-to-let property 
over the last decade would have 
outperformed the same cash sum invested 
in stocks and shares by at least 13 times 
(max. 26 times).
According to recent research** the equity in 
mortgaged buy-to-let properties now 
exceeds the equity in mortgaged owner 
occupied properties. Debt is falling in the 
buy-to-let sector and more properties are 
owned mortgage-free. We believed that 
pressure on the UK housing stock will mean 
that buy-to-let investment remains an 
attractive proposition for older people who 
have equity to draw against or pension pots 
to invest.
During 2015 we let more properties than 
ever before and we ended the year 
managing over 45,000 tenanted homes, 
which means collecting and accounting for 
£34m in rents every month.
We are delighted with the four property 
brands we acquired in October 2014. The 
brands of Parkers, CJ Hole, Whitegates and 
Ellis & Co all have great heritage and 
pedigree and already enjoy strong 
reputations with the public for both estate 
agency and lettings.
The first part of 2015 was substantially 
taken up with the integration of Xperience 
into our Group. Xperience operated out of 
two headquarter buildings, one in Leeds and 
one in Theale. We never occupied the Leeds 
building and closed and disposed of the 
lease at Theale. Head office headcount has 
risen slightly by the end of 2015 to 39 staff, 
but this is in the context of managing a 
network of 287 offices; at the time of the 
IPO in December 2013 our network was 190 
offices and a headcount of 31.
I am delighted to report that all the costs of 
the re-organisation and assimilation of 
Xperience into our Group have been incurred 
and we enter 2016 with a lowered cost base. 
The vast majority of our franchisees have 
been franchisees for 5 years or more.  
This means that their initial bank loans  
will have been paid down and these 
businesses should be very well placed to 
raise new funds to acquire competitors. We 
intend to put more energy into this activity 
during 2016.
We will be rolling out a financial services 
strategy to all our offices during 2016.  
The proposition will be a “whole of market” 
selection of mortgages and fee-free advice. 
Life Assurance and General Insurance 
products will be tied to Legal & General. 
The benefits of this strategy will be 
increased income from financial services 
(currently just 1% of MSF) and greater 
understanding of our customers.
Enquiries from potential franchisees have 
been on a steep rise during the final quarter 
of 2015. We achieved our highest number of 
new recruits in three years and opened 13 
new offices. We remain very positive about 
prospects for the private rental sector and 
with a strong balance sheet, five great 
property brands and experienced 
management in place we achieved our best 
year yet in 2015 and aim to surpass this by  
a substantial margin in 2016.
Ian Wilson
Chief Executive Officer
** Savills Research Feb 2016
