 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 02
Strategic Report
At a Glance
Our business
The strategic focus is firmly on growth and to deliver benefits 
from operational gearing. We provide exceptional customer 
service and manufacturing expertise driven by a commitment 
to our core values.
INTERIORS, GARDENS, SEATING AND LANDSCAPES
Marshalls is the leading innovator of hard landscaping 
solutions for the commercial construction sector, placing 
a focus on developing new and innovative products.
In the Public Sector and Commercial end market 
Marshalls focuses on developing products which 
help architects, local authorities and contractors 
to create better spaces, whether it is street furniture, 
natural stone paving for the internal or external 
environment, concrete block paving, water management 
or protective street furniture products.
Public Sector 
and Commercial
Our markets
INTERIORS, GARDENS AND DRIVEWAYS
Marshalls’ Domestic customers range from DIY 
enthusiasts to professional landscapers, driveway 
installers and garden designers. Sales continue to be 
driven through the Marshalls Register of Accredited 
Landscapers and Driveway Installers. 
For homeowners Marshalls offers the inspiration they 
need for their garden and driveway projects.
Domestic
Markets – Domestic page 14 14 Markets – Public Sector and Commercial page 12 12 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03
Innovation
The structure of the Marshalls Innovation Cycle gives us a greater 
ability to feed the Group Marketing Evolution Plan – a necessity 
for a healthy, sustainable and industry leading new product 
design (“NPD”) pipeline. 
The new structure enables us to dynamically plug into a wider 
intelligence of product ideas, market drivers, industry technology 
and manufacturing system and process improvements for the next 
generation of Marshalls NPD. 
Product and process concepts will be engaged by stakeholders 
and brought to life and managed within the Innovation Growth 
Engine. Based on real commercial intelligence the best concepts 
will be prioritised by business leaders and will move forward with 
more speed and confidence before being managed through the 
manufacturing or marketing process prior to manufacture.
Intelligence
Customers
Marshalls is the market-leading supplier of hard 
landscaping products to both the Domestic and 
Public Sector and Commercial end markets.
Public Sector and Commercial
Customers: Local authorities, commercial architects, specifiers, 
contractors, housebuilders and builders merchants.
Domestic 
Customers: National and independent builders merchants, 
DIY groups, professional landscapers, garden designers and 
patio and driveway installers.
Our benchmarks
Marshalls has been rated a Business Superbrand every year since 2010. 
Superbrands is an annual initiative to identify and celebrate Britain’s strongest 
consumer and business-to-business brands.
Products
Marshalls offers complete hard landscaping solutions for 
the domestic and commercial hard landscaping markets, 
as well as internal flooring, street furniture and lighting.
Public Sector and Commercial
Products: Paving, block paving, kerb, water management, 
natural stone cladding, street furniture, lighting, protective 
street furniture, walling and mortars.
Domestic 
Products: Paving, block paving, paths, edgings, walling and 
decorative aggregates.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Our innovation cycle
Innovation in Action pages 6 – 7 6
Future scapes Market intelligence
Innovation growth engine
Investment
Product management
Manufacture
Idea portfolio
T echnology drivers Materials R&D Sales feedback
Innovation Delivery
