 04
MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
This year we have seen outstanding 
performance in some areas of the business 
but performance below our expectations 
in others. The overall result is that 
underlying proﬁ ts before tax moved ahead 
6.1% to £661.2m. We have achieved a 
number of the strategic priorities we set 
out at the beginning of the year, becoming 
a more capable company with signiﬁ cantly 
stronger infrastructure, but we experienced 
some implementation issues along the way. 
We embedded new values aligned with our 
strategic goals. These values, which put 
integrity at their core, respect our heritage 
whilst helping us to become the modern, 
agile company we need to be. Above all, we 
remain focused on one thing: off ering our 
customers products of exceptional quality 
and value that they can trust, however they 
choose to shop with us.
PERFORMANCE
Our Food business had an outstanding year 
in a sector that continues to go through 
profound change. In the most competitive 
food market of recent years, we delivered 
like-for-like growth in every quarter and 
maintained our margin. We have a clear and 
distinct off ering and our growth plans look 
clear and achievable. 
Our General Merchandise (GM) business 
delivered signiﬁ cant margin gains – the 
ﬁ rst step in reaping the beneﬁ ts of the 
investment we have made – and our 
products were well received by our 
customers and the fashion press. Whilst 
our overall performance was aff ected by 
the implementation issues outlined below, 
it was pleasing to exit the year in the ﬁ nal 
quarter with all elements of our GM 
business showing growth. 
Performance in our International 
business was disappointing. Strong sales 
performance in key owned markets, for 
example India and Hong Kong, was more 
than off set by macroeconomic issues and 
performance in key franchise markets, 
particularly Russia, Ukraine and Turkey. 
We implemented two crucial pieces of 
infrastructure: our new M&S.com website 
and our automated distribution centre at 
Castle Donington, two of the largest 
projects of their kind in Europe. Whilst 
projects of this scale are likely to 
experience some initial performance issues, 
these were greater than we anticipated. Our 
skilled teams acted decisively to address 
the issues. The strategic rationale for both 
projects remains clear.
BOARD PRIORITIES
The Board’s three priorities have remained 
the same since I became Chairman in 201 1: 
we are focused on strategy and execution, 
people and succession, and values. Having 
completed the bulk of our major three-year 
investment programme to transform M&S 
into an international, multi-channel retailer, 
the Board’s focus again this year was on 
ensuring that our substantial investment 
delivers the required returns. We also 
devoted time to ensuring we have the right 
talent and skills required in our business, 
and to debating and articulating our values, 
discussed below.
BOARD CHANGES
There have been a number of changes to 
the Board this year. 
Jan du Plessis, our Senior Independent 
Director, stepped down in March 2015, 
having served on the Board since 2008. 
I would like to thank Jan for his 
commitment and contribution to M&S over 
the years. His insights and experience have 
been invaluable. Vindi Banga, who has 
served on our Board since 201 2, took on the 
position of Senior Independent Director; he 
also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
In April 2015, Richard Solomons joined the 
Board as a non-executive director. Richard 
is Chief Executive of InterContinental 
Hotels Group and brings strong 
commercial, consumer, branding and 
global experience to the M&S Board.
On the executive team I would like to 
extend a warm welcome to Helen Weir, 
our new Chief Finance Offi  cer. Helen has 
exceptional credentials in both retail and 
ﬁ nance having previously held the same 
position at John Lewis Partnership, Lloyds 
Banking Group and Kingﬁ sher.
This year we reviewed our senior 
remuneration framework to align it more 
clearly with our strategic objectives. 
Further details are laid out in our 
Remuneration Report on page 52.
OUR VALUES AND PLAN A 
A
The culture at M&S is important to the 
Board. Our values are a fundamental part of 
how we do business – they are what makes 
M&S diff erent. Last June we introduced four 
From our values to our infrastructure, M&S is a 
more capable and better equipped business than it 
was a year ago – helping us become the modern, 
agile company we need to be.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN
OUR BUSINESS
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
6.4p
INTERIM
PAID ON 9 JANUARY 2015
11.6p
FINAL
TO BE PAID ON 10 JULY 2015
18.0p
TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR 2014/2015 OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
05
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
new core values built on the principles that 
have guided M&S since it was founded in 
1884. The values – Inspiration, Innovation, 
Integrity and In Touch – aim to equip us all 
to deliver our strategic plans. 
But while the words are new, we have not 
changed what matters to us. Acting with 
integrity is at the heart of the way we do 
business. So our customers can be sure 
that the GM margin gains we achieve will 
not come at the expense of the standards 
we expect in our factories; they can be 
safe in the knowledge that we will not 
compromise on the provenance of our 
food; and they can rely on us to be a force 
for good in the communities in which we 
operate. 
Our commitment to Plan A, the 
programme we launched eight years ago to 
become the world’s most sustainable major 
retailer, remains as deeply held today as it 
ever was. As people become increasingly 
aware of how their behaviour impacts the 
world around them, we believe businesses 
need to connect with the communities in 
which they operate. From healthy living 
to ethical sourcing, we are committed to 
leading the way and striving to off er our 
customers the most sustainable options 
possible. As M&S becomes more 
international, our ability to lead with others 
on a global scale grows, whether by using 
our scale to drive improvements in our own 
supply chain, or by lending our expertise to 
global industry initiatives.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Engaging with stakeholders and employees 
is particularly important during times of 
change. We communicate regularly with our 
shareholders to ensure they understand 
our progress and plans. Outside our results, 
this year, we held investor brieﬁ ngs on 
M&S.com and our International business, 
and Marc Bolland and his executive team 
had many meetings with investors. All 
information shared at these events 
is available to shareholders at 
marksandspencer.com/investors. We 
again held a governance event for our 
largest shareholders, which I led with our 
Senior Independent Director. 
We have recently implemented a new 
loyalty scheme for our private investors. 
The scheme allows over 190,000 of our 
UK-registered private investors to use 
money from their dividend payment to buy 
an M&S Shareholder Card at a discount. It 
operates much like a gift card. The initiative 
reﬂ ects the fact our private investors are 
also some of our most loyal customers and 
we value them greatly.
Our ‘Fit for the Future’ programme was one 
of our biggest ever engagement exercises, 
where employees discussed the shape of 
the new values. We also launched a scheme 
for the 3,500 section managers who 
between them manage 92% of our sales 
ﬂ oor colleagues. The programme inspired 
and motivated these managers, who are 
the beating heart of M&S.
LOOKING AHEAD AND DIVIDEND 
M&S is a more capable and better 
equipped business than it was a year ago. 
In the coming year we will continue to 
focus on growth in Food, improving 
GM performance, further improving 
margins and cash generation.
Our dividend policy remains a progressive 
one, with dividends broadly covered twice 
by earnings. We intend to pay a ﬁ nal 
dividend of 1 1.6p this year, taking the total 
dividend to 18.0p, up 5.9% on last year. In the 
context of our increased free cash ﬂ ow, we 
are also pleased to announce an ongoing 
programme of returns of capital to 
shareholders, starting this year, with a 
share buyback programme of £150m.
Finally, I would like to thank all our 
employees for their hard work and 
commitment at a time of signiﬁ cant 
change. M&S employees are dedicated and 
upbeat – I am always struck by their positive 
attitude and energy. Their pride in M&S and 
commitment to the business are what 
makes us special. I want to thank every 
one of them in stores and in our offi  ces 
for their contribution this year. 
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN
Independence Half of our Board is made up 
of independent non-executive directors, in 
line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Senior Independent Director Our Senior 
Independent Director is Vindi Banga.
Accountability and election We have clear 
separation of duties between Chairman and 
CEO roles, and require all the directors to 
stand for re-election annually. 
Evaluation An externally facilitated 
performance evaluation of the Board and its 
committees was undertaken during the year, 
as it is every three years.
Attendance The Directors have all attended 
an acceptable level of Board and Committee 
meetings.
Compliance The composition of all Board 
committees complies with the application 
recommendations of the Code.
Experience Throughout 20 1 4/1 5, two members 
of the Audit Committee had recent and 
relevant ﬁ nancial experience.
Tenure The tenure of our previous external 
auditor was over ten years. In 201 4/1 5 we 
appointed a new statutory auditor, Deloitte, 
following a thorough tender process.
Non-audit policy We have a policy for the 
award of non-audit work performed by our 
auditor, which is disclosed on our website, and 
we have disclosed the limited non-audit work 
undertaken.
Auditor appointment We disclose our 
external auditor appointment policy.
Internal Audit Details on the internal audit 
function are provided within this report.
Performance-related pay A signiﬁ cant part 
of our performance-related pay is delivered 
through shares.
Reward Our reward framework is simple and 
transparent and is designed to support and 
drive our business strategy.
 See Governance Section p32-82
GOVERNANCE PROFILE OUR GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES
LEADERSHIP   See p34
The Board rigorously challenge each other 
on strategy, performance, responsibility and 
accountability to ensure that the decisions we 
make are of the highest quality. 
EFFECTIVENESS   See p41
The Board’s performance is scrutinised in an annual 
eff ectiveness review. This examines the progress 
we are making against our plan, our collective and 
individual eff ectiveness, and the independence of our 
non-executive directors. 
ACCOUNTABILITY   See p44
All of our decisions are discussed within the context 
of the risks involved. Eff ective risk management is 
central to us achieving our strategic objectives.
ENGAGEMENT  See p51
Maintaining strong relationships with our 
shareholders, both private and institutional, is 
crucial to achieving our aims. We hold numerous 
events throughout the year to maintain an open 
dialogue with investors. 
