 2
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2
WHO WE ARE
At a Glance
and what we do
The Group operates as a pure franchise 
model primarily focused on residential 
lettings and property management 
services to private clients.
 Based on the 2011 census the 
Group now contains 55% of total 
UK private rental households 
within it’s occupied franchised 
territories, and of these it 
manages 1.58%
 The Group competes for  
rental instructions against 
Countrywide, LSL, Connells 
and Foxtons
 The newly acquired CJ Hole brand 
is ranked the No.1 agent based on 
independent customer 
satisfaction surveys in Bristol 
(allagents.co.uk) and No. 16 in 
the whole of the UK
 94% of Martin & Co landlord 
clients would recommend its 
service
42,000+
Properties under management 
282
Offices 
243
Offices now offer estate agency 
232
Franchisees
49
New franchise territories occupied by 
the year end
14
New franchisees recruited
Brand stable
 Martin & Co
Martin & Co was established as a brand in 
1986 and began franchising in 1995. It is a 
national brand with 193 offices widely 
distributed across the UK.
The business mix of Martin & Co is 94% 
lettings and 6% estate agency by revenue, 
and estate agency revenue grew by 138% 
year-on-year in 2014.
The most significant change in the past year 
is that the Martin & Co brand is no longer the 
sole trading brand of MartinCo PLC. 
 “Xperience”
Legal & General established Legal & General 
Franchising Ltd in 1992 in order to facilitate 
the transition from a model of directly 
owned and managed estate agency 
operations to a franchise model. Thirteen 
years later the brand “Xperience” was 
adopted to describe the whole of the 
property franchise business of Legal & 
General and selected to communicate the 
many years of accumulated experience 
within its four established regional brands; 
Ellis and Co, Parkers, CJ Hole and Whitegates.
The Whitegates master franchise is owned by 
Whitegates Estate Agency Ltd, and the 
master franchises for Ellis and Co, Parkers 
and CJ Hole are owned by Xperience 
Franchising Ltd (formerly Legal and General 
Franchising Ltd).
The Group operates as a pure franchise model 
primarily focused on residential lettings and 
property management services to private clients. 
It also has a developing income stream from estate 
agency services.
Traditionally, Martin & Co recruits new 
franchisees from a wide pool (83% do not come 
from a property background) and provide 
intensive training and “hands-on” support. The 
focus on lettings emanated from growth in this 
sector and the attraction of a recurring 
commission income stream from a portfolio of 
tenanted managed properties. After the financial 
crisis of 2008, the business recorded its peak 
flow of new franchisees and retail banks 
continued to lend support to its start-ups 
because of the strength of its franchise model.
The business added an estate agency service in 2012 
principally to service investment property trades by 
its existing clients. More recently the service has 
been promoted to the general house buying public 
including an innovative “online” advertising service 
as a defensive play against the virtual estate agents 
who operate without high street premises.
A listing on AIM in December 2013 raised £4m  
of fresh capital to invest in a lettings business 
acquisition programme to supplement organic 
growth. In October 2014 MartinCo PLC purchased  
the entire property franchise business of Legal & 
General, which operated as four franchise brands. 3
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
3
 Martin&Co
 Whitegates
 CJ Hole
 Parkers
 Ellis&Co
New instructions
*
 
(year to December 2014)
 8,772 Connells Group
LSL
Martin & Co
Foxtons
Countrywide
 37,264
 20,471
 20,713
 28,898
 Ellis & Co:
Ellis and Co opened its first office in Swiss 
Cottage, north-west London in 1850. The 
business expanded substantially in the 1960s 
and 70s before a period of retrenchment. It now 
has 20 offices within the M25 and 1 office in 
Tonbridge, Kent.
 CJ Hole:
CJ Hole was founded in Clifton, Bristol by 
Charles Joseph Hole in 1867 as a rent collection 
business. 
Over the years, the focus of the business 
changed towards selling property as the 
company began to expand. Today, CJ Hole is a 
major force within the estate agency market in 
the South West with 19 offices throughout 
Bristol, Somerset and Gloucestershire; 2 of 
which were added in 2015.
 Parkers:
Established in Gloucester in 1948, today Parkers 
is a dominant force in the South of England with 
a network of 15 offices along the M4 corridor.
 Whitegates:
Established in 1978, Whitegates is an estate 
agency with 36 offices across the North of 
England, including Yorkshire, Midlands, North 
East, North West and Wrexham in North Wales. 
Whitegates derives approximately half of its 
income from lettings activity.
Awards
The Group provides lettings, estate agency and property management 
services to its clients through its network of franchised offices.
Martin & Co won “Gold” for “Best Large Letting Chain” at the ESTAS (Estate & 
Letting Agency Awards) in both 2009 and 2012 as well as “Silver” in 2013 and 
“Bronze” in the 2014. In 2013 Martin & Co won “Silver” in the Sunday Times 
“Lettings Agency of the Year” and again in 2014.
CJ Hole won “Gold” in the Sunday Times South West “Lettings Agency of 
the Year” in 2012 and 2014.
Ellis & Co won “Gold” in the Sunday Times “London Estate Agency of the 
Year” in 2013.
* Source: The Guild of Estate Agents 4
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
4
CHAIRMAN’S
Richard Martin.
Statement
“Our maiden year as a publicly traded 
company has seen strong delivery 
on the acquisition strategy which 
was a cornerstone of our  
IPO proposition to investors.”
I am delighted to report strong progress on a 
number of fronts. Following the fund raise of 
£4m at IPO our investors’ expectations were 
that we would execute a “buy and build” 
strategy targeting competitor lettings 
businesses. Our stated goal was to build our 
portfolio and reach 40,000 tenanted managed 
properties within two years of the listing.
At our first Board meeting of 2014 we approved 
an approach to Legal & General plc to acquire 
its entire property franchise business 
(“Xperience”). The Board could see merit in 
acquiring not only a substantial portfolio of 
tenanted managed properties (circa 10,000) but 
additionally 89 franchised offices across four 
well-respected brands with real depth to their 
appeal within specific regional markets. We 
concluded the Xperience acquisition in late 
October and in the final two months of the 
financial year it contributed £150,000 to our 
pre-tax profits.
When I founded Martin & Co in Yeovil in 1986 it 
began life as an estate agency. Later I realised 
that the strong demand for rented properties 
could provide my business with a recurring and 
accretive monthly income. When the franchise 
launched in 1995 we focused primarily on 
lettings because the rental market was 
expanding rapidly and serviced by relatively few 
professional letting specialist companies and 
none with a national brand profile.
Martin & Co has since demonstrated that the 
residential lettings industry has remained stable 
through economic cycles. This, combined with 
the strength of our brand, makes the Group 
attractive to people who wish to become 
franchisees and build their own lettings 
businesses. The Group’s strong support network 
has been essential to the continued 
development of our franchisees and helping 
them build a successful franchise business.
In 2012, the Group introduced an estate agency 
service to enhance the Martin & Co brand. With 
the property market cycle turning in our favour 
the management team felt the timing was right 
to accelerate the roll out of the service. I’m 
delighted to say that by the close of 2014 we 
had 155 Martin & Co offices offering an estate 
agency service, now joined by 88 offices from 
the Xperience brands. The Martin & Co estate 
agency business achieved a 138% year-on-year 
increase in Management Service Fee revenue 
and the Directors believe that there is 
significant potential for further development of 
this income stream.
In conclusion I believe that the decision of our 
Board to under take an IPO has been vindicated 
by the early results. We have recruited 14 new 
franchisees compared to 3 in 2013, we have 
already exceeded our target of 40,000 tenanted 
managed properties, and we enter 2015 with a 
business which is 49% greater in size judged by 
the number of trading offices, up from 189 to 
282.
I would like to thank the whole team and our 
franchisees for their commitment to the 
Group’s business. With the support of its new 
shareholders MartinCo PLC has completed its 
first year as a publicly traded company and as 
the UK’s economic recovery begins to gather 
momentum, we look forward to the future with 
confidence.
I am delighted to announce that the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 2.7p per 
ordinary share for 2014.
The Strategic Report is contained on pages  
9 to 15. It was approved by the Board on  
30 March 2015.
Richard Martin
Chairman
Key strengths
 Pure franchise business model
 Truly national office footprint
 Core market (residential lettings) 
enjoying steady growth
 Cash generative with a  
strong balance sheet
 Experienced management 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2014
5
The acquisition of 
Xperience has added 
considerable value, 
increasing our UK 
footprint by 89 offices.
