 Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 08
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Summary
 — Core values remain leadership, excellence, 
trust and sustainability.
 — Entered FTSE 250 with significant growth 
in revenue and profitability.
 — Well placed to make further progress 
in the year ahead.
 — Full-year dividend of 7.00 pence (up 17%) 
and a discretionary supplementary dividend 
of 2.00 pence. 
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2015 has been another good year for Marshalls 
and that we are well placed to make further progress in the year ahead. 
All of our businesses have performed well, achieving significant growth 
in revenue and profitability with benefits arising from favourable 
market conditions and strong operational gearing. Since the half year, 
the Group has entered the FTSE 250, which further demonstrates the 
continuing progress in the business.
Our core values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability generate 
a strong underpin for all we do and provide a foundation on which to 
build for the future. Our primary objective is to improve profitability 
and to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Results
Marshalls’ revenue is up 8 per cent to £386.2 million for the year 
and profit before tax is up 57 per cent to £35.3 million. The Group’s 
earnings per share at 14.32 pence is up 41 per cent. These results 
reflect our focus on customer service, the strength of the Marshalls 
brand, our range of innovative quality products and the improved 
performance of our smaller businesses. 
Dividends
The Board recognises the importance of dividends to our 
shareholders. Marshalls has strong cash generation and a robust 
balance sheet and this supports our progressive dividend policy. 
As previously stated, the Group maintains the objective of achieving 
up to 2 times dividend cover over the business cycle. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 4.75 pence (2014: 4.00 pence) per 
share which, together with the interim dividend of 2.25 pence (2014: 
2.00 pence) per share, represents a total ordinary dividend of 7.00 
pence (2014: 6.00 pence) per share.
In addition, in light of the Group's strong free cash flow, the Board has 
reviewed its approach to dividends in order to ensure we maintain an 
efficient and prudent capital structure which looks to provide increased 
returns to shareholders whilst at the same time retaining flexibility for 
capital and other investment opportunities. As a result, the Board is 
declaring a supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per share this year; 
this supplementary dividend is discretionary and non-recurring.
Taken together, the ordinary and supplementary dividends comprise 
an aggregate distribution for the year of 9.00 pence per share. The final 
ordinary dividend of 4.75 pence per ordinary share will, subject to the 
shareholders' approval at the Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2016, 
be paid alongside the supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per share 
on 8 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 3 June 2016.
Building for now and the future
Our objective is to deliver sustainable growth in 
shareholder value based on our vision to establish 
Marshalls as a world-class hard landscape business. Marshalls plc Marshalls plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Strategy
As your Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead and manage the Board in 
relation to the formulation of strategy. Our objective is to deliver sustainable 
growth in shareholder value based on our vision to establish Marshalls as a 
world-class hard landscape business. We have returned to pre-recession 
profitability which completes Phase 1 of our strategy. Phase 2 charts our 
strategy to 2020 and is outlined in the Chief Executive's Statement.
Key relationships are particularly important and Marshalls’ success 
is critically dependent on the positive interaction between the 
Group’s employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Marshalls brand remains central to our strategy and the Group 
has again received “Superbrand” status for 2016. Marshalls is a benchmark 
for excellence and the 3 cornerstone themes of customer service, 
quality and sustainability remain essential to the brand and put the 
customer at the very heart of our business. Continual innovation 
and new product development remain key priorities. 
Governance
As a Board we are committed to promoting the highest standards 
of corporate governance and ensuring effective communication 
with shareholders. We continue to comply with all of the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code as outlined in our Corporate 
Governance Statement on pages 36 to 41.
This year’s Annual Report further develops the improvements that we 
introduced last year and contains a number of additional features that 
aim to improve clarity for shareholders. We believe this will continue 
to ensure a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects.
In my report last year I set out a number of specific Board actions 
for 2015 including further consideration of strategic issues, increasing 
focus on dynamic risk reporting, identifying particular business areas 
for closer review and increasing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors 
to meet senior management below Board level through a programme 
of site visits. I am pleased to report that all of these commitments 
have been addressed and significant progress has been made in 
all areas. The Board continues to maintain an open and transparent 
culture and no restrictions or pressures are placed on Board members 
that could result in views or opinions not being expressed. 
The Group aims to be transparent throughout its operations and I am 
pleased that, during 2015, Marshalls has been awarded the Fair Tax 
Mark for responsible tax behaviour and transparency in its tax affairs. 
Board development is a constant priority and we continue to challenge 
the effectiveness of the Board against detailed and continually developing 
performance criteria. During the year, an internal evaluation of Board 
performance was conducted by the Group Company Secretary. The 
review sought to improve the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and 
of individual Directors. I am pleased to report that no areas of material 
concern were highlighted although a number of areas were identified 
for improvement during 2016. These include further consideration of 
longer-term strategy planning, risk management and business resilience. 
Additional consideration will also be given to Board succession planning 
along with greater focus on succession planning below Board level. I will 
report on progress against these initiatives next year.
Innovation
We combine clever engineering and technology 
with imaginative ways to save time and costs 
across all disciplines, from innovative paving 
options, to sustainable urban drainage 
systems and the very latest in creative street 
furniture solutions.
Under our Remuneration Policy, the management receives a large 
proportion of their remuneration in shares which must be retained 
for up to 5 years. This ensures a strong alignment between the interests 
of management and our shareholders. I am also delighted that we 
have launched the Marshalls 2015 Sharesave scheme which encourages 
wider ownership of Marshalls plc shares across the entire workforce. 
The scheme gives employees the option in the future to buy shares 
at a discounted price and has been extremely well received. 
Board changes
Alan Coppin is retiring from the Board following the Annual General 
Meeting in May 2016, having served as Non-Executive Director, 
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee since May 2010. He has demonstrated strong 
independence of thinking and has been a wise and supportive 
counsel to me in his role as Senior Independent Director. I would like 
to thank Alan for his significant contribution over the last 6 years.
In March 2015 I was delighted to welcome Janet Ashdown to the Board. 
Janet is a Non-Executive Director of SIG plc and the Coventry Building 
Society and has a wide range of skills and experience. She was also 
recently appointed to the Board of the Nuclear Decommissioning 
Authority. Following Alan Coppin’s retirement from the Board, Janet 
will become the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee.
People
Marshalls has an outstanding group of employees and we continue 
to place great importance on employee engagement. Our objective 
is to provide successful careers for our employees and opportunities 
for development and personal growth. On behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank all our employees for their professionalism and their 
ongoing support, commitment and dedication to Marshalls. 
Outlook
The Group is well positioned to achieve further growth and looking 
ahead I remain very optimistic. Market conditions are forecast to 
be positive for the next few years. We have a clear strategy, a strong 
management team, an excellent workforce and a significant opportunity. 
I am therefore looking forward to further growth in the year ahead.
Andrew Allner
Chairman
Corporate Governance page 36 36
