 08
MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW
In 201 4/1 5 we made further progress 
against our strategy to become a leading 
international, multi-channel retailer – as we 
enhanced our M&S.com infrastructure. 
With our new infrastructure largely in 
place, we have been focused on execution. 
A number of key projects, for example 
improvements to our product allocation 
and replenishment systems, have been 
successfully implemented this year. We 
also built up our design capabilities and 
capitalised on our market leading food 
product development. Whilst we faced 
some diffi  culties during the bedding in 
period of the website and distribution 
centre, we have learned more about how to 
improve our online customer experience 
and how best to stabilise the complex 
operations at Castle Donington. Thanks to 
our strengthened in-house capabilities, 
these learnings have been eff ectively put 
into practice, enabling us to return M&S.com 
to growth in the ﬁ nal quarter of the year. 
In 201 4/1 5 we invested in our organisation 
and our people to get the very best from our 
new infrastructure and ensure we are truly ﬁ t 
for the future. We have brought in key skills 
and competencies that have historically 
been outsourced – helping us work more 
proﬁ tably and with greater pace. This has 
included strengthening our in-house 
clothing and home design capability and 
our software engineering team. 
We developed four new core values of 
Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity and 
In Touch. By putting these values at 
the heart of everything we do, we are 
encouraging employees to do things 
diff erently and take a fresh look at how we 
can inspire our customers – with exquisite 
quality and styling in our clothing, and 
innovative, ﬁ rst to market, exceptional 
quality food. This consistency will help 
customers recognise the values of our 
brand and what makes M&S diff erent. 
PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW 
We made good progress in three of our 
four key strategic priorities for the year. 
In driving Food growth we delivered an 
excellent performance with sales up 
3.4% and growth ahead of the market. 
We signiﬁ cantly increased our GM gross 
margin by 190bps. GM sales, however, 
were challenging, particularly in the third 
quarter due to the impact of the disruption 
at Castle Donington and the unseasonal 
weather. Finally, we continued to control 
costs tightly and reduced capital expenditure. 
This, combined with a focus on working 
capital, has delivered free cash ﬂ ow pre 
dividends of £524.2m up 22.5%.
FOOD
The strategy we set out in 2010 to be more 
of a specialist in Food is working very well 
and diff erentiates us from the competition. 
We had an outstanding year in a diffi  cult 
market. Sales increased despite deﬂ ation 
across the sector and our proﬁ tability rose 
as we streamlined our processes. Our Food 
division has now seen 22 consecutive 
quarters of like-for-like sales growth. 
Customers continued to turn to M&S 
for both everyday quality and special 
moments. They love our constant 
innovation: over the year we launched 
1,700 new products. It is this newness and 
innovation that makes M&S food special. 
GENERAL MERCHANDISE 
Customers recognised the improvements 
in the style and quality of our clothing. Our 
collections over the year were a stylish, 
wearable interpretation of the key trends, 
meeting with approval from the fashion press 
and customers alike. By the fourth quarter, 
all GM departments were seeing growth. 
The rise in gross margin came about through 
better buying and sourcing. We also focused 
on full price sales and saw customers trade 
up to our better and best ranges. 
CHANNELS
Despite a diffi  cult start to the year, the 
performance of M&S.com steadily 
improved as we listened to customers’ 
feedback and worked hard to improve 
the online shopping experience. The site 
made gains on three key metrics as the 
year progressed: traffi  c, conversion and 
customer satisfaction levels. We now off er 
£5.2bn
+3.4%
£4.0bn
-2.5%
£524.2m
+22.5%
We are transforming M&S into a 
stronger, more agile business – putting the 
right infrastructure, capabilities and talent in 
place to drive our strategic priorities.
MARC BOLLAND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OUR BUSINESS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STRATEGIC OVERVIEW
s
ri
INSPIRATION INNOVATION
Our values underpin everything we do...
We aim to excite and inspire our customers We are restless in our aim to improve things for the better
UK FOOD 
REVENUE
UK GENERAL MERCHANDISE 
REVENUE
FREE CASH FLOW 
PRE DIVIDENDS
52.6%
+190bps
GENERAL MERCHANDISE 
GROSS MARGIN OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
09
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015
our customers a much more engaging 
online experience. M&S.com is a superior 
shop window for our products and our 
customers appreciate its strong editorial 
point of view: 8.2m people visited its Style 
& Living editorial section over the year. 
Together, this has resulted in a steady 
improvement in sales and we ﬁ nished the 
year with growth of 1 3.8% in Q4. Over 7m 
people have registered to use the site, 
surpassing registrations on our old site. 
We continue to improve our stores to 
make them more inspiring places to shop. 
We invested in the quality of the store 
environment, with refreshed Womenswear 
departments and new look Menswear 
departments. We also improved 
Shop Your Way with extended delivery 
cut-off  times, off ering a more convenient 
and joined-up customer experience. 
INTERNATIONAL
Our International business faced multiple 
macroeconomic challenges this year. 
These issues aff ected franchise partners, 
particularly in Russia, Ukraine and Turkey – 
our Middle East region – and resulted in 
reduced wholesale shipments, which led to 
lower proﬁ ts. However, we were pleased by 
our performance in other priority markets, 
particularly India, and by the good growth 
in our Food business in Europe and 
Hong Kong.
BRAND
The new core values are aligned with our 
business and will drive the behaviours 
needed to achieve our customer promise 
of ‘enhancing lives, every day’. Our brand 
was enhanced by imaginative marketing. 
We launched Only M&S, a uniﬁ ed campaign 
for Food and clothing – we are one 
brand with many stories to tell. In Food, 
‘Adventures in…’ celebrated the creativity, 
craftsmanship and passion behind our 
food and was very well received by our 
customers. The clothing campaign marked 
a step change in approach and with 
renewed conﬁ dence we showcased our 
edit of the latest trend. ‘The Two Fairies’ 
Christmas campaign combined bold ideas 
with imaginative use of social media to 
position M&S as a relevant, lively brand.
PEOPLE 
For M&S to thrive in the future, we have 
to be a modern, forward-looking and agile 
company today. Over the year, we continued 
to roll out the necessary systems and 
processes to ensure that – from top to 
bottom – we are in the right shape to meet 
future challenges. Our Fit for the Future 
programme saw us reﬁ ne the way we do 
things. We streamlined our processes, 
clariﬁ ed lines of command and introduced 
initiatives to encourage entrepreneurialism. 
We also realigned our executive team’s 
responsibilities. The changes ensure greater 
accountability and our new simpliﬁ ed team 
structures allow us to move with more 
speed and agility.
PLAN A 
A
Over the last 1 3 1 years, M&S has built a 
unique position and a signiﬁ cant part of 
that is down to customer trust. Maintaining 
this position of integrity is central to the 
Company’s future. Our customers trust us 
to always do the right thing, which is why 
Plan A 2020 is absolutely crucial. Plan A 
has taught us that we can achieve more 
when we collaborate inside and outside of 
the business. We celebrated a decade of 
Marks & Start, our scheme which provides 
training and work experience within M&S 
and our supply chain for the long-term 
unemployed. Make Your Mark, our 
programme that focuses on supporting 
young people facing barriers to 
employment, is part of Movement to Work, 
a larger programme we helped to found 
in 201 3. Almost 200 of the UK’s biggest 
companies are now signed up. Engaging 
with our communities underpins Plan A 
and this year our employees and customers 
raised a total of £7 .5m for our local and 
national charity partners. We have a clear 
plan to further engage our customers and 
communities in Plan A. In 2010, we set out 
our goal to be the world’s most sustainable 
retailer and this continues to drive our 
ambition to improve things for the better. 
MARC BOLLAND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
As we continue the work to transform 
our infrastructure, we will now focus on 
consolidating our position as a leading 
international, multi-channel retailer.
Using our strengthened capabilities, our 
priorities, both in the UK and International, 
will be to accelerate our Food growth, deliver 
an end-to-end GM operating model and to 
drive the experience on M&S.com. We will 
continue to develop a world class talent 
pool, further growing our skills in key 
strategic areas.
The UK food market will remain 
challenging but we are well positioned 
with a store format that caters for how 
shopping habits are changing. We opened 
62 Simply Food stores this year, and we 
have a strong pipeline with the fastest 
Food store opening programme planned 
in M&S’s history . 
Whilst we expect the Clothing and Home 
market to remain highly competitive, we will 
deliver growth through a focus on stylish 
design, quality and newness, with better 
availability and more choice. 
We anticipate that our International 
business will continue to be impacted 
by this year’s weakening euro and 
macroeconomic factors will remain a 
challenge, particularly in our Middle 
East region. However, we will focus on 
delivering relevant ranges to our local 
customers, improving our like-for-like 
sales performance across our owned 
and franchised market and building 
our international supply chain. 
INTEGRITY IN TOUCH
LOOKING AHEAD
We always strive to do the right thing We listen actively and act thoughtfully
Our strategic priorities for 2015/16 remain unchanged 
FOOD SALES GROWTH GM GROSS MARGIN IMPROVEMENT IMPROVE GM PERFORMANCE STRONG CASH GENERATION
