 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
49
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
At a Glance Summary
Remuneration policy summary
Element Policy summary description Opportunity / maximum
Fixed remuneration
Base salary An Executive Director’s basic salary is considered by the Committee 
on appointment and reviewed annually or when an individual 
changes position or takes on additional responsibility. In reviewing 
base salary, the Committee considers remuneration practices within 
the Group as a whole and, where relevant, objective research on 
companies within the Company’s peer groups. Other factors taken 
into account include:
 — the individual performance and experience of the 
Executive Director;
 — the general performance of the Company; and
 — the economic environment.
Salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
The Remuneration Committee policy in relation to salary is:
 — up to the median salary on appointment depending on the 
experience and background of the new Executive Director;
 — on promotion, up to the median salary for the new role, 
otherwise pay increases will not exceed the higher 
of inflation and / or pay rises generally for Group 
employees; and
 — individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may 
have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until 
they become established in their role. In such cases 
subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the 
average until the target positioning is achieved.
Benefits Benefits for Executive Directors are a fully expensed company car, 
annual medical and private medical insurance (including spouse and 
dependent children up to age 24), and death-in-service insurance.
Executive Directors may be entitled to claim travel and 
accommodation expenses subject to agreed limits on appointment.
The Company may carry permanent health insurance cover in 
respect of up to 100 per cent of an Executive Director’s salary. 
Although not a benefit to Executive Directors, this insurance offers 
comfort to Executive Directors in the event of long-term ill health.
The maximum value available is the cost of the benefits.
Pension / salary 
supplement in 
lieu of pension
Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the defined 
contribution section of the Marshalls plc Pension Scheme. The 
Company contributes at an agreed percentage of basic salary.
Executive Directors may take a pensions allowance in place of 
the Company’s contribution to the Scheme.
Pension allowances are excluded for the purposes of calculating any 
other element of remuneration based on a percentage of salary.
20 per cent of base salary.
In this section we set out our remuneration principles, the key 
elements of our Remuneration Policy and how the Policy will be 
implemented in 2016. We have also highlighted performance and 
remuneration outcomes for 2015, reported in full in the Annual 
Remuneration Report.
The Company’s Remuneration Policy has been designed with the 
following aims:
 — to ensure that incentives and targets support the delivery of, 
and are fully aligned with, our key strategic objectives;
 — to avoid complexity within the incentive structure while 
retaining flexibility to address changing market conditions;
 — to ensure that a significant proportion of variable pay is awarded 
in shares or share equivalents; and
 — to continue to meet regulatory and best practice guidelines 
on remuneration.
Our Remuneration Policy aims to encourage behaviours that will 
ensure the sustainability and long-term health of the business and 
avoid inappropriate risk taking, while recognising and rewarding 
the creation of shareholder value. Remuneration targets are 
designed to support the delivery of our key strategic objectives. 
Our remuneration packages also need to be appropriate to attract, 
motivate and retain talent, both at Executive Director level and 
throughout the business.
A summary of the relevant elements of the Policy table is set out below. Corporate Governance
50
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
At a Glance Summary continued
Element Policy summary description Opportunity / maximum
Variable performance related remuneration
The Marshalls Incentive 
Plan (“MIP”)
Element A
Annual target set by reference to strategic and operational 
objectives set by Remuneration Committee. If conditions met, 
50 per cent of earned award is paid as cash and 50 per cent deferred 
as shares into individual plan account.
50 per cent of accrued plan account balance paid out annually for 
3 years, provided forfeiture threshold exceeded each year, with the 
final balance paid at the end of the fourth year.
Awards subject to continued employment at end of the period.
The forfeiture thresholds, if not achieved, result in the loss of up to 
50 per cent of unpaid awards.
Malus and clawback provisions also apply.
150 per cent of salary.
MIP Element B Annual target set by reference to strategic and operational 
objectives set by Remuneration Committee. Awards are made 
annually in the form of nil-cost options or conditional shares, and 
are subject to continued employment and a financial underpin 
for 3 years.
Awards become exercisable or unconditional after 3 years but, 
once vested, may not be sold for a further 2 years.
Participants build up a shareholding over 5 years.
There is a financial underpin which, if not achieved over 3 years, 
results in the loss of up to 50 per cent of unvested awards.
Malus and clawback provisions also apply.
100 per cent of salary.
Shareholding requirement Executive Directors are required to retain 50 per cent of the net 
number of shares earned under the Company’s incentive 
arrangements until the shareholding requirement is satisfied.
A new Executive Director may build up the minimum requirement 
within the first 5 years from the year of joining. Failure to meet 
the shareholding requirement within 5 years of appointment 
will result in a reduction in the future levels of award under the 
Company’s incentive plans.
The minimum shareholding requirement is 200 per cent of salary 
for the CEO and 100 per cent for other Executive Directors.
Non‑ Executive 
Directors’ fees
The Chairman’s fee is set by the Committee. Fees are reviewed annually 
and periodically benchmarked against equivalent roles in the same 
comparator groups as are used for Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any bonus, do not 
participate in awards under the Company’s share plans, and are not 
eligible to join the Company’s pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and 
accommodation costs in connection with the performance 
of their duties.
The Company’s policy in relation to fees is:
 — up to median level fees on appointment depending 
on the experience and background of the new 
Non-Executive Director;
 — increases during a term of office will not normally exceed the 
lower of inflation or the general rise for employees; and
 — fees may be adjusted to recognise significant change in 
responsibility levels (for example, if the Company’s ranking 
as a constituent of the FTSE All Share Index changes).
Remuneration policy summary continued Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
51
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Implementation of policy during 2016 and any changes to
Executive Director earnings for 2015
Decision Rationale
Element (fixed)
Salary 2.5 per cent salary increase for Chief Executive. Chairman 
and Non‑Executive Directors’ fees also rose by 2.5 per cent, 
both with effect from January 2016. Finance Director 
salary increased by 16.75 per cent. 
2016 increase for Chief Executive and Non‑ Executive 
Directors reflects 2.5 per cent inflation award for the 
workforce as a whole. Finance Director salary was below 
median; the increase brings the overall package closer to 
target positioning against median.
Benefits No overall change in range of benefits. The current range and level of benefits remains appropriate.
Martyn Coffey receives travel and accommodation 
expenses within a fixed 3‑ year allowance.
Jack Clarke also received travel and accommodation 
expenses and relocation assistance.
Pension Neither Director participates in the Company scheme: 
both receive their pension contribution entitlement 
in the form of a salary supplement.
Principle of employer pension contributions remains valid 
– no change needed.
Element (variable)
2005 LTIP Historic long‑ term incentive scheme: awards outstanding 
from 2013 and 2014. No further awards ‑ replaced by 
Element B of the MIP . 
Element B of MIP delivers awards in the form of shares based 
on achievement of targets set annually but with deferral 
and underpin condition over a period of up to 5 years.
MIP Combines annual deferred bonus (Element A) and 
long‑ term shareholding (Element B). Details of 2015 awards 
are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report. 2016 
financial targets will be EPS (75 per cent) and the ratio 
of operating cash flow (“OCF”) to EBITDA (25 per cent).
EPS remains a good measure of performance against strategic 
objectives and for 2016 the ratio of OCF to EBITDA has been 
introduced as the secondary measure most closely aligned 
with strategic objectives. Customer service and health and 
safety targets also remain.
Executive Director earnings for 2015
Notes
(a) The base salary, benefits and pension information is taken from the single total figure of remuneration table on page 53.
(b) Achievement of “target” financial conditions results in 70 per cent of the annual award under the MIP being earned.
(c) “ Below threshold” assumes a performance that fails to meet the threshold for both Element A and Element B so is the level below which no variable pay under 
the MIP is earned.
(d) “Outperformance” represents the full 250 per cent of salary potential under the MIP.
(e) The 2015 actual excludes Martyn Coffey's 2013 LTIP award which may vest. This award has been included on page 52 in the Directors interests in shares table.
Finance Director
Key Salary, benefits and pension MIP Element A MIP Element B Key MIP Element B MIP Element A Salary, benefits and pension
1,000 500 0 1,500 2,000
27% 40% 33%
42% 35% 23%
100%
Below threshold
Target
Outperformance 27% 40% 33%
42% 35% 23%
100%
Below threshold
Target
Outperformance
2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0
Chief Executive
27% 40% 33% 2015 actual 27% 40% 33% 2015 actual
(£’000) (£’000) Corporate Governance
52
Marshalls plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
At a Glance Summary continued
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”)
The MIP incorporates:
 — Element A, an annual bonus award carrying a maximum of 150 per cent of salary, of which 50 per cent must be deferred into shares; and
 — Element B, an award normally in the form of a nil‑ cost option to acquire shares, carrying a maximum of 100 per cent of salary, conditional 
on continued employment for 3 years from grant and 50 per cent of which is also subject to a financial condition over the 3‑ year period. 
Element B shares must be held for a further 2 years after vesting.
Both awards depend on achievement of the performance conditions set by the Committee at the date of award. The table below shows the 
2015 performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied.
Percentage
of maximum Percentage Percentage
contribution Percentage of salary of salary
based on Minimum Maximum 2015 of target earned earned
Measurement measurement target target Actual achieved (Element A) (Element B)
EPS 75% 12.12p 14.14p 14.32p 100% 112.5 37.5
Net debt 25% £27.5m £22.5m £11.5m 100% 75.0 25.0
Non‑ financial targets 20% deduction 
if not met
95% (customer service)
10% reduction
(health and safety)
N/A All met 100% No 
deduction
No
deduction 
Directors’ interests in shares
Notes:
(a) The 2013 LTIP award for Martyn Coffey is assumed to have fully vested and is shown in Actual.
(b) The information in the above chart is taken from the table showing Directors’ shareholdings on page 59.
Key
200% 100% 0 300% 600%
100%
444%
Percentage of salary
400% 500%
Finance Director
Key  Contingent 
(and deferred)
  Actual 
(non‑ contingent)
 Requirement
200% 100% 0 300% 600%
200%
213%
Chief Executive
500%
Percentage of salary
400% 500%
  Contingent 
(and deferred)
  Actual 
(non‑ contingent)
 Requirement
1%
