 Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Major opportunities in our  
core markets
A key strategic move in meeting client and  
candidate needs
The year under review was highly significant for the Group as 
we acquired and began to integrate into our business Networkers 
International plc, the highly respected international recruitment 
firm specialising in Telecommunications, IT and Engineering. 
The acquisition was a key strategic move as we respond to  
and anticipate the development of client and candidate needs.  
As the UK’s leading provider of white collar engineering 
professionals, we believe that the evolution to advanced 
electronic software-based systems from traditional mechanical 
and older electrical technologies and the increasing 
globalisation of many of our leading clients are equally 
significant to our future.
The acquisition of Networkers addressed both these important 
trends more rapidly, more cost-effectively and with less risk 
than the alternative of organic growth to achieve the  
same result. 
New market entry
Networkers' presence in the telecoms and connectivity arena 
brings us immediate access to an important new market, as the 
Internet of Things (IoT) becomes a reality.
“ We continue to see major  
opportunities in our core markets  
of white-collar engineering and 
technology recruitment. Both 
digitisation and converging  
technology are creating further 
opportunities in these areas  
and the addition of telecoms 
recruitment to our portfolio  
creates an even stronger  
specialist Group.” 
Brian Wilkinson
Chief Executive Officer
4 
MATCHTECH GROUP 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 attraction and development and seek to reduce attrition to 
levels below the industry average. 
Enhancing strategic delivery
The acquisition has confirmed the validity of our three 
pillared strategy.
First, we have sharpened our focus on our three core vertical 
markets of Engineering, IT and Telecommunications by reorganising 
the reporting structure of our various Group companies to reflect 
where our vertical-market expertise is strongest. 
Networkers’ energy and engineering business has been 
integrated into Matchtech Engineering and teams combined 
from the established IT businesses of Networkers, Connectus 
and Provanis teams. Barclay Meade and Alderwood continue to 
provide the professional staffing and training recruitment 
services which are so vital to our key client base and we intend 
to continue the development of both businesses from our 
Whiteley, Hampshire campus. 
Secondly, we are already seeing positive movement up  
the value chain. For example, average time-sheet value  
has grown by 5%, while the average fee charged in our 
permanent business is up by 12%. The introduction of 
Networkers’ historically higher margin and higher fee  
business can only accelerate this progression. 
The acquisition has most clearly acted as a catalyst for our third 
strategic priority – to “go global”; already, we are generating  
a combined 30% on our net fee income from outside the UK,  
What the integration will  
mean for shareholders
What do you think the integrated business 
will look like in 2016 and beyond?
This is a watershed year for the Group and I believe 
the acquisition is the launchpad for far greater 
things. Once the integration is complete the 
business will have a stronger foothold in our key 
markets of Engineering, IT and Telecoms and have 
efficient and value adding backoffice functions.
When and how do you plan to start the 
expansion of the international network?
This is already underway. The acquisition only 
completed in April so we have had to work fast to 
identify the opportunities to capitalise on first. It 
takes time to mobilise people but we already have a 
number of staff preparing to relocate, including one 
senior manager, who will head up the Americas.
One high-profile example is the growing emphasis that 
automotive manufacturers are placing on the so-called 
connected car. In the 10 years that Matchtech has focused on 
automotive technology, we have seen software development 
building on engine-control and safety systems to enable 
connectivity. This further increases the value of advanced 
software and electronics expertise to the automotive industry, 
and similar trends are now being seen in some of our other 
markets, including avionics and maritime. The expanded 
Matchtech Group can now meet substantially more of the R&D 
recruitment needs of the biggest players in all these markets.
Rapid globalisation
Acquiring Networkers has given us a physical presence in nine 
countries – all regional hubs – to add to Matchtech’s strong 
position in the UK. As noted above, the acquisition has 
substantially reduced the costs and risk involved in international 
expansion, giving us instantaneous access to the key markets of 
the Middle East, North America and South-East Asia that we had 
already identified as strategically vital to our future. 
Further, the international presence and new competencies in 
multi-site management that the acquisition brings us correlates 
to the changing needs and expectations of our clients as they 
expand their businesses across the world. 
We are well positioned to deliver the global staffing solutions 
that such clients need, enabling us to attract and retain much 
more of their recruitment business.
The world’s best projects
Additional factors also persuaded us that Networkers was the right 
acquisition target – it has a great brand, with the quality, 
reputation and status as a leading player in telecoms recruitment 
that we were looking for. It was already profitable in all its national 
markets, including its most recently opened operations. It was in 
the right places across the world to serve all global Anglo-Saxon 
and Anglo-American recruitment markets. And the acquisition 
formed what we believe can be the world’s leading tech-focused 
recruiter in our shared specialist markets. Critically, it also means 
that we can now demonstrate to the best candidates that we are 
their route to the world’s best engineering, telecoms and 
technology projects, no matter where these are to be found. 
In short, the acquisition of Networkers has accelerated the 
achievement of the company vision for 2017 that we set out  
last year: to be the market-leading specialist recruiter; the 
employer of choice in our sectors; the best partner for clients 
and candidates alike; to have a fast-developing international 
business and to be the premium recruitment stock for investors.
The most engaged consultants
At the core of achieving this vision is the additional power  
we now have to engage with the industry’s best and most 
productive recruitment consultants, based on the enhanced 
career opportunities our larger, more diverse and international 
business can now offer our people. This is fundamental to 
achieving significantly faster organic growth over the coming 
years and our research confirms to us that individuals are 
critical if we are to build, evolve and maintain all-important 
long-term relationships with clients and candidates alike. 
We believe, therefore, that the recruitment business with the 
most engaged consultants will perform at the highest levels. 
Developing and retaining our staff is a key priority. The Board 
and senior management team continually review staff 
Q&A
5 
MATCHTECH GROUP 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements up from just 2% before the acquisition. We have subsequently 
amended this priority to “think global” which is encouraging 
our people to maximise cross-selling opportunities around 
the world to support and drive growth in all our local and 
regional markets. 
Integrating our organisations
The process of integrating the two organisations has started 
well. As the two management teams have come together,  
we have found a great deal in common both culturally and 
professionally. Following a series of visits to all our offices 
across the world, during which I have met almost every member 
of staff, I have been extremely impressed by the attitude, 
enthusiasm and energy of everybody in the business. 
We now have the rare opportunity to learn from one another and 
pick the best aspects of each organisation to apply to the integrated 
“whole”, ensuring that the resulting Group will be considerably 
stronger than its composite parts. We are applying this “best of 
both” approach to our brands, our structure and roles – allocating 
key roles to the most appropriate and experienced people, 
regardless of which company they come from. Already, we have 
been able to identify a number of talented individuals and relocate 
them from the UK to other countries to drive growth. We are 
increasingly recognising the value to our business of having people 
with local cultural understanding and languages across the world, 
based alongside the English-speaking core of the organisation.
Operational aspects of the integration programme are 
continuing. In areas like finance, HR, IT and management, we  
are already achieving cost synergies and best practice. Areas 
for rationalisation remain. For example, we still have two CRMs, 
two back offices and two sets of associated systems. This 
duplication will be addressed. 
We have already identified synergies in Stock Exchange listing 
costs, the Board and management overhead, the rationalisation 
of property. These synergies should realise in the region of 
£1.3m in FY2016 on a fully annualised basis. We expect more 
cost synergies to follow as we progress the integration and we 
combine some back office functions.
We have chosen to reinvest some of these cost synergies to 
improve the business and accelerate future growth. We are 
investing to improve connectivity in some regional offices to 
support long term growth, as well as strengthening functional 
management in some areas. We are building on our existing 
strong business development capability and we expect to see 
sales synergies come through in FY2016, although early-stage 
progress, such as on joint bids, is already highly encouraging. 
In addition, we are currently undertaking in-depth research  
to better understand the positioning and value that our brands 
currently have in their individual markets. This will ultimately 
enable us to reduce costs and maximise growth by taking our 
strongest brands forward.
Culture and values
In my view, the most important work currently underway is  
our initiative to link culture and values across and through 
every level of the organisation. Cultural integration is vital to  
our long-term success, so we are taking this process extremely 
seriously, carrying out a worldwide series of workshops and 
“get-to-know-you” sessions as important precursors to, and 
catalysts for, seamless integration.
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Performance
This year the Group has delivered NFI of £54.8m,  
with both Matchtech and Networkers delivering broadly  
at the same level as the same period last year. Our ability to 
effectively manage our cost base has led to a 10% growth  
in adjusted profit before taxation from the existing businesses 
to £13.8m, before the beneficial impact of Networkers’ four 
month contribution of £1.9m in the period.
The acquisition now gives us a platform to push on and 
continue to grow into a global marketplace. On behalf of the 
Board I would like to thank all our dedicated staff , contractors 
and candidates for their contribution to the business this year. 
Outlook
The 2016 financial year has started well, in-line with 
management’s expectations, with many buoyant markets across 
the Group’s core sectors. 
In engineering, particularly encouraging is the continued progress in 
the Infrastructure division where relationships with key multi-
national clients will be expanded internationally, as well as in the 
Automotive, Aerospace and Maritime markets. In Energy, the Group 
now enjoys a strong position in the growing European renewables 
arena. The Telecoms sector is also performing well, fueled by clients 
investing in 4G and converged service offerings. The newly 
combined IT team is well placed to take advantage of strong demand.
We are delivering cost synergies in areas including listing costs, 
the Board, management and property, with the remainder of the 
envisaged synergies on track for FY2017. A portion of the 
savings will be used to make investments in sales and 
marketing, regional management and connectivity for some 
international offices, to increase the focus on large major 
accounts and to optimize operational efficiency.
The Group has a good new business pipeline and signs of sales 
synergies are coming through, with early joint bids progressing 
well. We are now in a position to pursue more larger-scale 
relationships and have identified opportunities across multiple 
geographies and disciplines in our three verticals. A number of 
staff have already been selected to relocate to international 
offices to accelerate the growth opportunities.
Looking ahead, we regard all international locations to be a huge 
opportunity to advance our activities in local and regional 
markets across the world and are. We are planning for substantial 
growth in selected countries over the next few years. 
We believe the high engagement levels of our exceptional 
people will continue to underpin the lasting loyalty of clients 
and candidates alike, delivering enhanced shareholder value 
and improved returns. 
I am optimistic about the future prospects for the Group 
confident that in the medium and longer term, we and can look 
forward to strong growth in all our markets based on the truly 
global scale and the greater brand awareness that comes with 
leadership status.
Brian Wilkinson
Chief Executive Officer 
29 October 2015
6 
MATCHTECH GROUP 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report
Combined Group overview
A new, stronger Group
 60 0
Sales staff
1
 Recruitment International Top 500 Report 2015
Top 3 UK IT/Telecoms  
recruiter specialist
1
UK’s No.1 
Engineering  
recruitment  
specialist
1
10
 Countries
5
Continents
13
Offic es
100
Countries we recruit in
4,000
Permanent  
placements  
9,000
Number of  
contractors 
7 
MATCHTECH GROUP 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
