 Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Matchtech and Networkers  
are a natural fit, with limited 
client crossover
Reflecting on a watershed year for Matchtech Group
Looking back at the 2015 financial year, the Board recognises 
that it was a watershed year for Matchtech, with the acquisition 
in April 2015 of Networkers International plc.
In Networkers, we found the excellent international network 
and telecoms expertise we sought. Equally important, it is 
culturally well aligned with Matchtech.
Under Brian Wilkinson’s leadership as our CEO, we also made 
significant progress in strengthening the Group to position  
it for future challenges and opportunities.
Financial results and final dividend
Reflecting a year of solid achievement, adjusted basic earnings 
per share were up 16% to 45.3 pence (2014: 39.2 pence). 
Further information on Group performance is provided in the 
Chief Financial Officers report.
The Group’s progressive dividend policy remains an important 
part of our investment proposition and this will continue 
following the acquisition. The Board recommends to 
shareholders a final dividend of 16.32 pence per share, an 
increase of 12% on last year. This gives a total dividend for the 
“ Looking back at the 2015 financial 
year, the Board recognises that it 
was a watershed year for Matchtech, 
with the acquisition in April 2015  
of Networkers International plc.  
As I step down from my period as 
Interim Chairman, I have never felt 
more positive about the potential  
of Matchtech Group, its performance 
and that of the industries it serves.  
I know the business will strive to 
capitalise on all of the opportunities 
in front of it.” 
Ric Piper
Interim Non-Executive Chairman
2 
MATCHTECH GROUP 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 year of 22.00 pence per share (2014: 20.0 pence) up 10% with 
an adjusted dividend cover of 2.1 times (2014: 2.0 times). 
If approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, to 
be held on 2 December 2015, the final dividend will be payable 
on 11 December 2015 to those shareholders registered on 
13 November 2015.
Delivering the future
The CEO’s Statement explains how we have reorganised 
reporting structures to support even stronger client relationships 
and make the best use of our expanded reach and expertise. 
The formation of our new Management Board has also given a 
more appropriate managerial structure for future development 
and growth.
We are delivering against our ambition to be the employer  
of choice for staff as we develop and accelerate their careers. 
The Board thanks all our colleagues for their achievements  
and commitment in this watershed year.
We have made good progress on integrating Networkers into 
the Group, focusing primarily on gaining the greatest possible 
benefits for clients from our new global scale. 
In an important exercise to get to know every individual,  
the CEO visited all 10 overseas offices in the network within  
2 months of the acquisition. 
These are early days however, and much remains to be done, 
particularly in terms of client integration and also investing  
to upgrade some regional back office systems to support  
future growth. 
New Chairman 
I am very pleased to welcome Patrick Shanley as Non-Executive 
Chairman with effect from the end of the Annual General Meeting 
on 2 December 2015. 
I am confident that Patrick’s skills and experience will be 
invaluable for the Group over the coming years.
Outlook 
As I step down from my period as Interim Non-Executive 
Chairman, I have never felt more positive about the potential  
of Matchtech Group, its performance and that of the industries 
it serves.
We have great staff and management, well led by an 
exceptional CEO in Brian Wilkinson.
Above all we have our culture, one which has served us so very 
well over the last three decades.
I know the business will strive to capitalise on all of the 
opportunities in front of it.
Ric Piper
Interim Non-Executive Chairman 
29 October 2015
Introducing Patrick Shanley 
Patrick, 61, has extensive boardroom experience and 
is currently Chairman of chemicals business, Accsys 
Technologies. Patrick has previously been Chief Financial 
Officer of Courtaulds plc and Acordis bv, Chief Executive 
Officer of Corsadi bv, Chairman of Cordenka Investments bv. 
and Chairman of Finacor bv. Patrick began his career working 
for British Coal where he qualified as a Chartered 
Management Accountant. He has a strong operational, 
restructuring, merger and acquisition background within  
a manufacturing environment.
What the integration will  
mean for shareholders
How will the integrated business  
increase shareholder value?
The achievement of sales synergies across the 
integrated business, leveraging the international 
office network to best effect, is ultimately what will 
drive shareholder value forward.
How is the Group improving its 
organisational culture following  
the acquisition?
Placing a high regard on culture during the integration 
has been key. Whilst we are culturally similar, 
underpinned by almost identical values, there are 
some clear differences neither of which are right.  
We will learn from each other and take the best from 
both businesses forward.
Q&A
3 
MATCHTECH GROUP 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
