 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 10
Chief Executive’s statement
Summary
 > Our strategy remains unchanged; we will 
continue to focus on two growth markets, 
where our differentiated service delivery 
quality will prevail.
 > Over the short to medium term, we expect our 
increasingly broad-based housing business to 
make a disproportionate contribution to our 
growth ambitions.
 > Despite short-term challenges in the care 
market, we remain confident that our Care 
business is well positioned and will prosper 
over the medium term.
Positive progress
I am delighted with the progress made by the Group, particularly 
within our Housing division, where we have successfully extended 
our services from our traditional maintenance base to a broader 
affordable housing offering. The Housing Management businesses 
acquired in 2014 will have increased four-fold by the end of 2016, 
which is a remarkable achievement.
Our strategy to broaden our service offering in Housing has 
created a significant and sustainable competitive advantage for 
Mears. A highlight in 2015 was our success in being selected by 
Milton Keynes Council to form a long-term joint venture partnership. 
The joint venture will provide total asset management to the Council’s 
social housing portfolio and deliver regeneration opportunities 
across its priority estates. This joint venture represents one of the 
largest single contracts ever awarded to Mears. Our ability to provide 
a one-stop, affordable housing solution was fundamental to our 
success in securing this important opportunity.
Our Care division has experienced a challenging market environment 
this year. The sector has been under severe funding pressure. 
Whilst there has been no shortage of demand for care work, a 
significant barrier to growth has been the sourcing of sufficient 
good quality care workers. We have focused on those strategically 
important clients, which we believe have potential to develop into 
partnerships where we are able to deliver a high quality service 
at sustainable margins. Our acquisition of the loss-making Care 
at Home business of Care UK (CAH) has now been integrated 
and will begin to deliver value. 
Positive outlook
We operate in robust and defensive markets where spend is 
largely non-discretionary. We continue to place great emphasis on 
winning high quality contracts that provide clear and sustainable 
margins with good cash flow dynamics. Our dedication to providing 
our clients with first class service and value remains undiminished. 
We expect our Housing business to continue to grow through 
further contract wins. Whilst we are the market leader, we deliver 
services to only 15% of the UK’s social housing market, which 
provides us with significant headroom for growth. Furthermore, 
our housing management capabilities offer material growth 
opportunities, as the demand for affordable housing requires 
that housing providers work harder and smarter to increase the 
supply of suitable housing through innovation and partnership. 
We believe the Housing division is well positioned to deliver strong 
organic growth. Where appropriate, we will make acquisitions 
to develop the breadth and depth of our services. 
Continued funding issues in the care market will create a catalyst 
for change, as will the consequences of implementing the National 
Living Wage. Whilst I do not see a strong prospect of immediate 
fundamental change, I am clear in my view that, increasingly, 
commissioners will look to re-balance their contract estate, focusing 
on working with fewer better-run service delivery partners. 
Moreover, further opportunities will result from localised health 
related outsourcing. Our market-leading approach to service 
quality and innovation puts us in a strong position, and, as 
the care market evolves, we will benefit disproportionately.
D J Miles
Chief Executive Officer
david.miles@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
David Miles
Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 11
How have you performed against 
your strategic priorities?
We have had a solid performance against all of our strategic priorities 
and are better placed than ever to meet growing client opportunities. 
Our key differentiator continues to be that we offer high quality 
services and are able to work in partnership across a wide variety 
of services. Our skilled workforce, advanced staff development 
and training mean that we not only attract and retain our people 
but that we also offer leadership and guidance to our partners. 
We are particularly pleased that 2016 was a record year for contract 
wins, with key strategic successes in Milton Keynes for Housing 
and the mobilisation of our Torbay contract in Care.
How has Mears evolved over the last year?
We never stand still and the business has grown organically due 
to our reputation for service excellence. We now have around 
18,000 people working across the Group and I firmly believe that 
every single one of them helps to make a real and tangible difference 
to the lives of the people we serve. While we have expanded, we retain 
a local approach to our services and ensure that we are using local 
people in local communities who are answerable to locally based 
managers. Our customers always come first and our approach to a 
consistent set of values means that Mears has become a watchword 
for quality and getting the job done. The increased use of technology 
along with acquisitions of other businesses have helped us 
become the class leader in housing and social care.
The development of our Housing Management business into one 
of the largest in the UK has been a particular success.
What do you see as the Group opportunities for 2016?
Our work and expertise in housing management are opening up 
many opportunities for us in the next twelve months. We are now 
able to offer clients a complete asset management service and we 
believe our new Milton Keynes model will create other opportunities 
for us. Our extensive experience in the repairs and maintenance 
sector gives us a unique perspective from which to ensure that 
where we build homes, they are high quality, low maintenance 
homes fit for a low carbon, low energy future. We see increasing 
opportunities for solutions that address homelessness, as the 
shortage of suitable social housing will continue for the 
foreseeable future.
From a Care perspective we have a real chance to influence 
outcome-based care commissioning. We take a responsible and 
ethical approach to paying our carers and have the opportunity 
to influence clients in this area, many of whom are being tempted 
into unworkable contracts with unrealistic, and in some cases 
legally questionable, tenders. Mears now has the ability to 
influence national thinking in these areas.
“ In the medium term, we 
continue to see significant 
opportunity in the care sector 
and we remain confident that 
we have the right strategy.”
Read about our strategic 
priorities on page 16
What do you see as the Group’s key challenges 
and risks in 2016?
We are fully supportive of the new National Living Wage legislation, 
which we believe is really important in attracting a workforce 
capable of delivering to growing demands of the care market. In the 
short term, we do see the risk that a number of Local Authorities 
will not be prepared to adequately reflect this cost pressure in 
the rates they are prepared to pay providers. Given our focus 
on quality, we will only bid for opportunities where we can pay 
our workforce at a level that will not only meet legal minimum 
requirements but will ensure we have the workforce to deliver 
the high quality service that is at the heart of our strategy.
Our second key challenge will be to meet the growing demands for 
our housing management services and to ensure that we enhance 
our operational structure to meet this significant opportunity. The 
Mears leadership structure is now stronger than ever and we are 
confident that we will not only secure new work but also mobilise 
and deliver it to our usual standards.
How do you believe Mears has delivered against 
its Sustainability Strategy?
Our Sustainability Strategy has five guiding principles: 
long-term customer relationships, excellent employee experience, 
awareness of the environment, responsible leaders and diversity 
in our business. Our customer service indicators remain consistently 
above target and our contract retention is excellent. Over 7 ,000 staff 
responded to our employee survey, with very positive comments about 
what it is to be a Mears employee. Our investment in development 
and training for staff has never been greater and can be seen in 
the increasing quality of our management. Our carbon footprint is 
becoming smaller as we increase our use of technology but more 
can be always be done. Likewise, we continue to send less waste 
to landfill year on year as we become smarter about using materials. 
We have some excellent strategies in place around diversity and 
notable work has taken place around the issue of encouraging and 
supporting more women into trade roles such as plumbers and 
carpenters. However, there is a lot more to do here. Most important 
of all, our health and safety record remains a source of pride for 
Mears, as measured by the low levels of accidents experienced 
versus the average in our sector. 
Q&A
David J Miles
Chief Executive
