 Chief executive’ s review
Forging ahead with 
neighbourhood convenience
James Lancaster
Chief executive
• 
For us, 2015 was a year of continuing 
to focus on executing our strategy to 
maintain and enhance our position 
as a leading UK neighbourhood 
convenience business. 
Meeting expectations
In terms of the numbers, we delivered in line with 
expectations, continuing to grow and improve on 
2014. Total revenue, adjusted for the 53rd week in 2014, 
increased by 3.1%. Like-for-like sales decreased by 
1.9% overall. Like-for-like sales in premium convenience 
(with a wider range of products) and food and wine 
decreased by just 0.6% – a strong performance in a 
challenging market and another confirmation of our 
strategic focus on neighbourhood convenience.  
Like-for-like sales in standard convenience and 
newsagents decreased by 4.0%. 
We increased adjusted earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items and property 
gains and losses to £37.7m, up by 3.1% adjusted for the 53rd 
week in 2014. Operating profit before exceptional items 
decreased by £1.2m to £24.3m (2014: £25.5m); however, 
adjusting for the 53rd week and property gains and losses, 
underlying performance remained broadly flat.
Through continued cash generation, we reduced net 
debt by £5.8m. At the same time, we increased net capital 
expenditure to £22.7m compared to £19.3m in 2014.
We also took the opportunity in August 2015 to refinance 
our £85m revolving credit facility and £15m accordion 
facility on improved terms. We reduced interest costs and 
extended the period to August 2020 to give us even better 
medium-term funding security, which will help us execute 
our strategy with confidence. The results are covered in 
more detail in the financial review on pages 23 to 25.
Expanding the number and nature of our stores
We are well on our way to achieving our target of 1,000 
convenience stores by the end of 2016. We acquired 60 
new convenience stores and converted 45 newsagents 
to our food and wine format, bringing our total number 
of convenience stores to 893. With this 1,000 convenience 
stores target well within our reach, it’s natural for our 
business to look to the next stage in our evolution. This will 
see us shifting our attention increasingly towards not only 
growing the number of convenience stores we have, but 
also expanding the range of products and services we 
offer in our stores. In 2015, for example, we put a targeted 
range of alcohol into 100 of our newsagents – a revenue-
enhancing step with a high return on a small investment.
08 McColl’ s Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Evolving our stores
The way we are evolving our network of stores – to give 
our customers every kind of convenience they need 
on their doorstep – fits in well with the broader changes 
going on in the market. The buzz phrase is omni-channel 
shopping, where people are increasingly shopping in 
many different places and topping up more frequently, 
in person and online, rather than the old way of doing 
one bulk shop from one big store once a fortnight or so. 
This trend, as well as demographic changes, favours our 
focus on neighbourhood convenience. We want to be 
the store for everyone living within half a mile or so of our 
shopfront – the one our customers can come to for the 
things they need, and have the opportunity to work in 
too, if they like. 
Bringing convenience and food-to-go together
In particular, we are moving on from a typical convenience 
store to one where the lines are blurred between 
convenience and food-to-go. We want to bring the two 
together in a new way for the UK’s neighbourhoods. So of 
course we will continue to offer our customers milk, baked 
beans, newspapers and other everyday items, but we will 
also provide a great range of take-away food and drinks 
throughout the day – from morning coffees to late-night 
hot snacks.
Increasing our food-to-go offer
Coffee and sausage rolls in the morning, sandwiches 
and fruit pots at lunchtime, hot snacks and ready meals 
in the evening, fresh bread throughout the day are all 
available in our convenience stores – if you want food-to-go 
in your neighbourhood, we’re there for you. This was a big 
focus for us in 2015. We now have a dedicated head 
of our food-to-go business, supported by trained teams 
and individuals across our stores. So we are putting a lot 
of effort behind the all-important people side of driving 
food-to-go sales. We are also investing in the necessary 
equipment. Through 2015, we rolled out 33 large format 
food-to-go modules across our stores and 1 15 smaller 
modules, which represents a big step forward for the group.
We are getting good growth from our food-to-go business 
– sales have significantly increased throughout the year 
– and we will continue to make this a key focus of our 
business into the future.
We are 
proud to be 
a leader in 
neighbourhood 
convenience
Strategic report Chief executive’ s review continued
Partnering with Subway
We also opened a Subway franchise in one of our stores 
and as part of our strategy, we are running the franchise 
ourselves, enabling us to integrate it fully in the store 
and make the most of the enhanced food-to-go offer 
this popular brand brings. One particularly welcome 
advantage of partnering with Subway is that it helps to 
bring into our stores a younger group of customers. The 
launch of this addition to our food-to-go offer has been 
a great success and we plan to introduce more Subway 
franchises across our network.
Providing much-loved post office services
We acquired 72 new post offices in 2015 and now have 520 
in our stores. We are the UK’s No.1 post office operator – 
running more than the Post Office itself. Our modernisation 
programme continued, with a further 23 existing post 
offices being converted to the new format. Around 90% 
of our post offices have now been modernised. We always 
like to have a strong reason to be in a neighbourhood – 
to be more than just a great local shop. Often that means 
being the post office too; moreover, one which stays open 
as long as our stores do – so you can pop in late at night 
to post a package while topping up your shopping. 
Offering a great range of neighbourhood  
services and opportunities
Post offices are just one example of our commitment 
to offering our customers an ever-greater range of 
neighbourhood services. We deliver newspapers to around 
130,000 homes, for example. No other business makes as 
many paper deliveries, or creates as many opportunities 
for young people to earn some well-deserved pocket 
money. Moreover, with our commitment to offering local 
people great career opportunities, that first job delivering 
papers can turn into a part-time or permanent position 
in-store and onwards and upwards to management.
Alongside paper deliveries, we provide many other 
neighbourhood services such as lottery tickets, bill 
payment, cash machines and internet collection and 
return points – all just a short walk from where our 
customers live.
Continuing our loyalty scheme
Our dedicated Plus card loyalty scheme is proving to be 
a very successful way to thank our customers for shopping 
with us and strengthening our bond with them. To date 
we have nearly 450,000 loyalty card customers who now 
regularly use their card in store to access the great offers 
available to them.
Anticipating and responding
The market continues to be very competitive, with pressures 
for all players – from food price deflation to rising costs such 
as the increase in the National Minimum Wage and 
introduction of the Living Wage. But as a long established 
retail business with a very experienced leadership team 
we are used to anticipating and actively managing the 
challenges as well as seeing and capitalising on the 
opportunities – this is part of what makes retail so 
interesting and inspiring.
From a cup 
of coffee to a 
super Subway 
sandwich –  
food-to-go was  
a big part of  
our 2015 story
Total revenue growth
3.1 %
4.1% 2014
 2015 3.1% 
 2014
 
(52 weeks) 4.1% 
 2014 6.1% 
 2013 2.9% 
Number of  
convenience stores 
893
+11.8% 2014
Food-to-go growth up  
£4.5m
+30.9% 2014
10 McColl’ s Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
Our distinctive strengths
• We focus on convenience stores 
within neighbourhoods
• We have a highly experienced 
management team
• Our 18,956 colleagues 
deliver high levels of friendly 
customer service
• We have national scale and brand 
awareness across the UK
• We offer a wide range of products 
and services to local customers
• We directly manage and develop 
our network of stores
• We invest in customer-facing 
information systems and ongoing 
improvements
Generating additional value from selling 100 newsagents
Although convenience is our focus, we have carried 
on continuously reviewing our portfolio of newsagents. 
As well as converting a further 45 newsagents to 
convenience stores, we also announced in October 2015 
that after reviewing our portfolio we had decided to sell 
100 newsagents (subsequently 3 have been withdrawn 
from sale). This sale will generate additional funds 
to reinvest in acquiring and enhancing convenience 
stores. This is an ongoing part of our neighbourhood 
convenience strategy. 
Controlling costs
We kept a sharp eye on costs across the business and 
took a number of steps to control costs and improve 
efficiency. This included reducing headcount at our 
head office. We have industry-leading levels of stock loss. 
We also continually monitor all our running costs, achieving 
ongoing improvements in energy efficiency across our 
stores for example.
Streamlining our regional management
In 2015 we streamlined our regional management, so that 
we now have regional managers responsible for both the 
convenience stores and newsagents in their region. This 
was a natural change as the number of our convenience 
stores grows and the number of newsagents decreases 
progressively. It has helped us increase both efficiency 
and control.
Managing our trading times
As part of our ongoing efficiency drive, we have been 
managing our store trading times to make sure we stay 
open the optimum number of hours in each individual 
location. This store-by-store management is an example 
of our commitment to actively manage the business to 
achieve best results.
Looking ahead
As we look ahead to 2016 and beyond, for us it’s essentially 
about continuing to execute our strategy with ever-greater 
intensity and success. More focus on neighbourhood 
convenience. More growth in our stores as we close in on 
our 1,000 convenience stores target. More expansion and 
enhancement of the products and services we offer to our 
local and loyal customers. More chilled, fresh and food-to-
go options. More close cost control. More great jobs for 
our current and future colleagues. More positive impact 
on the neighbourhoods we live and work in. In short, more 
McColl’s, as we continue to strive and excel at bringing the 
very best convenience stores to the UK’s neighbourhoods.
Having led the business for over 40 years, I have seen it 
change and develop a long way from its earliest days to 
the strong and successful company it is today. As I prepare 
to step down as chief executive and take up the role as 
non-executive chairman, I am proud to say McColl’s is in 
great shape and has an exciting future. I look forward to 
the company I know and love forging ahead in bringing 
ever-greater convenience to the UK’s neighbourhoods. 
James Lancaster
Chief executive
Average customers  
per week 
4.6m
Average basket spend 
£5.1 2
£4.97 2014
Number of colleagues 
18,956
18,685 2014
Strategic report
