 Strategic report
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 08
Chairman’s statement
Summary
 > Housing opportunities remain strong, as 
our clients seek broader solutions to their 
increasingly complex housing challenges; 
consequently, we will continue to invest in 
the depth and breadth of our differentiated 
offering in our Housing division. 
 > Short-term challenges in Care should 
not disguise the medium-term opportunity, 
driven by an undeniable trend in demographics 
and the economic logic of caring for the vulnerable 
in their homes rather than in residential 
environments; consequently, we will continue 
to work with stakeholders for more sensible 
and sustainable solutions. 
 > The increase in dividend ahead of earnings 
reflects the Board’s confidence in our two 
growth markets and our differentiated approach. 
I am delighted to report a year of excellent progress, particularly 
in broadening our Housing service offering. The recent changes 
to social housing finance, combined with the increasing disparity 
between the supply and demand of housing, has constrained the 
number of new bidding opportunities over the previous two years. 
We used this hiatus wisely to strengthen our competitive positioning 
and our recent success at Milton Keynes is an early reward. 
Importantly, I do not believe that any competitor can offer such 
a broad-based, one-stop, solution in affordable housing. 
Our market-leading Housing maintenance business continues 
to perform well. Since Mears extended its services to housing 
management, accelerated by the acquisition of Omega in 2014, 
the Group has successfully grown the business from around 2,000 
homes under management to a figure fast approaching 10,000. 
We are working with Local Authorities, Housing Associations and 
institutional investors who are seeking to provide good quality 
homes. This is an exciting opportunity given the urgency for our 
clients to find solutions to address the homelessness issue and 
the pipeline remains buoyant. We are delighted to have been 
awarded a long-term joint venture partnership with Milton Keynes 
Council. This joint venture partnership represents one of the single 
largest contracts ever awarded to Mears. 
The acquisition of the Care at Home division of Care UK (CAH) 
in May 2015 significantly increased the scale of Mears within 
the domiciliary care market and strengthened our position with 
several strategically important clients, who are more likely to 
adopt outcome-based contracts on retender. As the second largest 
provider in the market with a differentiated approach, we are 
well placed to benefit from both the emergence of new style 
partnerships in domiciliary care and the wider integration 
of local health and social care.
I am pleased to report a solid financial performance for the year 
to 31 December 2015. Group revenue amounted to £881.1m 
(2014: £838.7m), as a result of the full year impact of Omega, 
acquired in October 2014, and the acquisition of CAH, acquired in 
May 2015. Whilst our Housing division delivered only a small amount 
of organic growth, we have enjoyed our most successful period 
of new contract bidding, securing circa £1 billion of new work. 
The order book has increased to £3.5 billion (2014: £3.3 billion) 
providing 96% visibility of consensus forecast revenue for 2016 and 
in excess of 83% visibility for 2017 (2014: 92% and 82% respectively). 
Our Care division has endured a challenging market, reporting 
a like-for-like revenue reduction in the year. This is discussed 
in greater detail in the Operations Review.
Following the acquisition of the loss-making CAH, Group operating 
margins decreased to 4.6% (2014: 5.3%) with operating profit before 
acquired intangible amortisation decreasing by 10% to £38.7m 
(2014: £43.0m). We continue to drive margin improvements within 
our Housing division, which accounts for 83% of Group revenues, 
with margins increasing to 5.8% (2014: 4.8%). To see our Housing 
margins return to pre-Morrison acquisition levels, a year ahead 
of our original expectations, is a tremendous achievement. 
Bob Holt
Chairman Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Mears Group PLC
Annual report and accounts 2015 09
“ We have made excellent 
progress in strengthening our 
relative competitive position 
in our two growth markets.”
Our headline normalised diluted earnings per share decreased 
by 13% to 27 .94p (2014: 32.20p), due to the initial trading losses 
and integration costs associated with the acquisition of CAH which 
were anticipated at the time. The impact of the residual losses 
from the Group’s Mechanical and Electrical (M&E) business, which 
was subject to a disposal in 2013, are included within discontinued 
activities. We have continued to deliver solid cash flows with cash 
generated from continuing operations as a proportion of EBITDA at 
99% (2014: 96%) with net cash reported at the year end demonstrating 
our continued strong cash management. Average daily net debt 
for the year increased to £68.0m (2014: £59.0m), which reflects 
the outflow of cash to fund acquisitions.
Dividend
The Board remains confident in the future opportunities in our 
growth markets and consequently it expects to continue following 
a progressive dividend policy. The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 7 .90p per share which, when combined with the interim 
dividend, gives a total dividend for the year of 1 1.00p (2014: 10.00p), 
a 10% increase, reflecting the Board’s confidence in the underlying 
performance of the Group. The dividend is payable, subject to 
shareholder approval at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
on 1 June 2016, on 7 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 
17 June 2016. The Board regularly reviews the Group’s distribution 
policy to maximise returns to shareholders whilst maintaining 
a prudent capital structure and the ability to invest for growth. 
Corporate governance and risk management
The Board continues to set itself high standards of corporate 
governance. Our Corporate Governance Report issued within our 
Annual Report will detail how we approach governance and the 
areas of focus for the Board in 2016 and into the future. 
We have reviewed and updated the Group’s risk register. The senior 
management teams play a central role in reviewing and challenging 
the Group’s risks. The Group risk team presented risk management 
training modules to all levels of management via the Group 
development programme, to further increase our strong risk 
management ethos. 
Over recent months, I was delighted to welcome two new 
Non-Executives to the Board. In October 2015, the Group appointed 
Geraint Davies who has a substantial breadth of commercial 
experience and has already made a significant contribution since 
his arrival. Geraint has also been appointed Audit Committee 
Chairman. In January 2016 we appointed Julia Unwin, who has 
significant experience within the housing sector and further 
improves the balance of the Board. 
Board evaluation and effectiveness
Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors takes place on an annual basis. The Directors were asked 
for their views on a broad range of areas including Group strategy, 
independence, experience, effectiveness and the interaction 
between Board members. I am pleased with the structure of the 
Board and that it is working in an effective and efficient manner.
European referendum
I note with interest the impending European referendum. While 
uncertainty is never positive for business, Mears does not envisage 
any significant negative impact from an EU exit, especially given 
that any exit is likely to take place over a number of years. Notably, 
Mears has a very low level of reliance upon Eastern European 
migrant workers. What is perhaps more relevant in the short term 
is that the domestic policy agenda is likely to take a back seat 
and legislative plans may slow down.
Our people
I commend our employees for their commitment and energy 
throughout another significant year for the Group. I continue 
to be impressed by their quality, professionalism and loyalty.
Mears has a diverse workforce of over 18,000 staff including 
400 apprentices; the vast majority of our employees live in the 
areas in which they work. Diversity and respect for all is core to our 
induction, recruitment and customer care programmes.
We continue to invest in the future generation. During the year , Mears 
opened its new National T raining Academy in Rotherham which will 
oversee the delivery of the Group’s Learning and Development 
programme. The capability of Mears’ existing in-house training 
function has been further enhanced through developing external 
partnerships with training providers. The Group is committed to 
providing the best technical training for our people, as well as creating 
training and career development opportunities, particularly for young 
people and the unemployed, in the communities in which we serve.
Our corporate strategy includes the establishment of an internal 
talent scheme which recognises the potential of our existing 
workforce and maximises the likelihood of retaining our most 
talented people. We have broadened this management development 
programme to cover senior leadership, branch manager and 
supervisory levels. These bespoke programmes call on internal 
experts and external specialists in order to create an effective 
scheme, combining the best of Mears with the latest in leadership 
thinking and wider-industry best practice. We focus on enhancing 
and strengthening skills in order to improve performance, as well 
as stretching those delegates who have the potential to take on 
more senior roles in the future.
I look forward to reporting news of our further success during 
the coming year.
R Holt
Chairman
bob.holt@mearsgroup.co.uk
18 March 2016
