 Chairman’ s statement
Leading in neighbourhood 
convenience
Sharon Brown
Interim chairman and 
non-executive director
• 
I am pleased to report another 
strong year, driven by our desire 
to bring ever-greater convenience 
to the UK’ s neighbourhoods.
Performing well
In 2015, our first full year as a public company, we continued 
to grow. Total sales increased by 3.1% and adjusted EBITDA
1
 
also grew by 3.1% (both adjusted for the 53rd week in 2014).
Further details of our trading performance are included 
in the financial review on page 23.  
Making the most of our listing
We have continued to capitalise on our listing on 
the London Stock Exchange’s main market in 2014. 
As planned, we have used funds to fuel and accelerate 
our performance in neighbourhood convenience, 
raising our profile and strengthening our brand by 
opening 60 new convenience stores in the year.
Development of our board and governance
In October 2015 John Coleman stepped down as non-
executive chairman in order to focus on new opportunities 
and I was appointed interim chairman. We would like to 
thank John for his hard work and everything he has done 
for McColl’s during a time of great change and progress 
for the business.
In November 2015 we announced that, as stated at the 
time of the IPO, James Lancaster would step down as chief 
executive. We are currently looking to find his replacement. 
Once the new chief executive is identified, James will be 
appointed as non-executive chairman, until the annual 
general meeting (AGM) in 201 7 .
With a new chief executive and James as non-executive 
chairman we will have a strong succession. Building on 
the great growth and transformation achieved under the 
leadership of James and his experienced team, we will 
continue to take the business forward for future success.
1. Excluding exceptional items and property gains and losses.
04 McColl’ s Retail Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
As a listed company committed to delivering long-term 
shareholder value, we operate to high standards of 
corporate governance. This is implemented through our 
audit, remuneration and nomination committees and 
supported by our non-executive directors, myself included. 
Full details of the committees and their duties are contained 
in the governance section of this annual report and the 
reports from the nomination, audit and remuneration 
committees on pages 48, 49 and 52 respectively.
To support the ongoing growth of the business and in line 
with best practice, we are also seeking to appoint a further 
independent non-executive director, who will also serve on 
all three committees.
Making a great difference
I’d like to thank each and every one of our 18,956 
colleagues for their outstanding contribution to the 
sustained success of our business. As a customer-focussed 
retail business, we are dedicated to providing a great, 
friendly service in local neighbourhood stores and our 
colleagues are the ones who make this happen.
Delivering dividend growth
The business continues to generate strong cash returns 
which we use to fund capital investment and a stated 
aim of progressive dividend payments to shareholders. 
The board is recommending a final dividend of 6.8 pence 
per share, making a total dividend for the period of 10.2 
pence. This dividend will be paid on 31 May 2016, to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
29 April 2016, subject to approval at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting.
Looking forward
I believe we are on an exciting path at McColl’s; 
a path that is seeing us strengthen our position as a 
leading UK neighbourhood convenience store business. 
The market remains competitive and fast-changing but 
we are confident that our position and chosen direction 
will continue to stand us in good stead. Looking forward, 
we will press on with our growth plans as we make the 
most of bringing convenience to the UK’s neighbourhoods.
Sharon Brown 
Interim chairman and non-executive director
We continue  
to extend  
the range of 
products we 
offer to our 
customers 
Strategic report
