 End market weakness 
presents challenges in 
any business. Our 
focus on superior 
performance, defined 
by quality, cost and 
on-time delivery, will 
help us grow faster 
than the markets in 
which we operate.
“
”
Group strategy
Meggitt is a leading provider of smart 
engineering for extreme environments. 
Our strategy involves investing in 
technologies and capabilities targeted at 
high-growth, complex and highly 
regulated markets, underpinned by 
market-leading levels of operational 
excellence. Our aim is to deliver financial 
performance exceeding that of our target 
markets, enabling us to reinvest for 
future growth while generating attractive 
returns for shareholders.
Technology 
The technology component of our strategy 
is designed to drive organic growth 
through targeted investment in key 
products and manufacturing capabilities 
aligned with our customers’ technology 
roadmaps. We invest where we have 
pedigree and where we can add most 
value to customers and shareholders.   
We aim to supplement organic growth 
with targeted acquisitions that enhance 
our capabilities and routes to market. 
A year of record spend on research and 
development in 2015 ensured we are set 
to support the entry into service of many 
new platforms including the re-engined 
narrowbody aircraft from Boeing and 
Airbus, the Bombardier C-Series and a 
wide range of business jets. 
Meggitt’s applied research and 
technology activity, conducted at a 
divisional level, supports product 
development for new and existing 
applications. This has been supplemented 
with dedicated central funding for the 
development of cutting-edge technologies 
for next-generation platforms, which we 
have been successful in augmenting 
through grants from governments and 
industry. This funding source has enabled 
us to boost our progress in projects such 
as additive layer manufacturing, a 
technology which is now used in our 
production facilities. Under the EU Clean 
Sky initiative, we are a core partner, 
leading a consortium of parties 
developing Green Airframe Icing Novel 
Systems (GAINS) for energy-efficient 
anti-ice technology for next-generation 
aircraft. We continued to invest in Meggitt 
Modular Modifiable Manufacturing (M
4
), 
our pioneering approach to the factories 
of the future. M
4
 is designed to enable 
operators to manufacture a broader 
range of low-volume, highly complex 
components to a consistently high 
standard. It deploys smart tools and big 
data for real-time monitoring of key 
parameters such as product weight and 
touch-time. The resulting optimisation of 
all aspects of the manufacturing process 
from machining and assembly to machine 
utilisation and traceability is hugely 
beneficial, particularly in an aerospace 
environment. M
4
 projects have already 
been seeded in several Meggitt factories 
in the UK with many more to come in 
future years.   
Investing in these and other new 
technologies is becoming an increasingly 
important activity for aerospace 
equipment suppliers, as customers 
require ever greater levels of technology 
readiness prior to awarding work on new 
aircraft platforms. 
Our acquisitions of the composites 
businesses of EDAC and Cobham plc 
exemplify targeted, value-added portfolio 
enhancement. These two transactions, 
both of which completed in the fourth 
quarter of 2015, build on our existing 
composite component technology, 
broadening our reach beyond airframe and 
anti-ice products into high-growth, higher 
temperature engine products. They have 
established positions on a range of 
significant new platforms including the 
PurePower, F135 and LeapX engines. The 
integration of these businesses into the 
Group is just starting, but we are 
encouraged by what we have seen to date 
and delighted to welcome 1,148 new 
employees to the Meggitt family.
Operations excellence
Superior performance, defined by quality, 
cost and on-time delivery, is another key 
to realising our growth potential and we 
are determined to make operations 
excellence a core competitive strength. 
The Meggitt Production System – our 
global approach to continuous 
improvement – has progressed well since 
its inception in 2013, with the initial 
launch now complete at all main 
manufacturing facilities. We have seen 
meaningful improvements in operating 
performance such as Defective Parts Per 
Million down 87% and on-time delivery up 
14%. Two sites have now successfully 
exited the third phase of the six-phase 
programme, which extends the system 
beyond the factory floor, supply chain and 
programme management, and into 
functions and leadership. We expect 
further progress toward this level of 
maturity during 2016. This is the stage 
at which we expect to start seeing 
meaningful financial benefits arising  
from enhanced operating efficiency.  
Chief Executive’s review
6 MEGGITT PLC          REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.indd   6 07/03/2016   04:15 We have continued to invest in low-cost 
manufacturing centres in China and 
Mexico. In 2015, we acquired a new site 
next to our existing Vietnam factory 
enabling us to increase capacity 
significantly. The operational focus for 
the next two years is to ensure we are 
equipped to accelerate production to 
support the rapid growth of new aircraft 
programmes, following which we will 
accelerate our work on footprint 
optimisation.
Renewing our customer focus
Making ourselves easy to do business 
with is central to our business philosophy. 
During 2015, we dedicated a senior 
executive to the requirements of our 
original equipment customers and 
another to the aftermarket. 
Original equipment manufacturers are 
seeing a renewed focus on their priorities. 
Transactional relationships with 
procurement teams at key engine and 
airframers in Europe, the US and China are 
giving way to the collaborative, technology-
led discussions needed to deliver positions 
on next generation platforms. At the same 
time, refined key account strategies are 
enabling us to bring together cross-group 
product packages that simplify their supply 
chains today.    
We established a Customer Services & 
Support (CSS) organisation designed to 
strengthen revenue growth through 
better customer support and satisfaction 
in the aftermarket, which is central to the 
Meggitt aerospace business model. CSS 
will centralise much of our customer-
facing aftermarket resource and will 
enhance our relationships with 
customers. CSS is also working on a 
range of initiatives including building a 
greater presence in the market for 
maintaining, repairing and overhauling 
our own components, consolidating our 
global distribution network and engaging 
directly in the surplus parts market via 
strategic partnerships. As these activities 
will enable us to build greater knowledge 
of changing market behaviour and the 
in-service performance of our products, 
we will be able to maximise Meggitt 
revenue across the product lifecycle by 
focusing on profitable modification and 
retrofit opportunities. 
Performance in 2015
Our end markets experienced a 
challenging year in 2015. Growth in civil 
aerospace was lower than expected, with 
organic civil OE revenue growth of 4% 
reflecting lower growth in deliveries of 
new aircraft, and 3% organic growth in 
aftermarket demonstrating weakness in 
large jet spares from increased surplus 
market activity, more than offset by good 
growth in business jet aftermarket. 
Military revenues saw a good recovery in 
the first half from a weak 2014. However, 
the second half was hampered by the 
Continuing Resolution put in place in 
September in the US ahead of the 
agreement of the full-year 2016 budget, 
resulting in a flat year overall. As 
anticipated, energy revenues saw a 
further decline, with the offshore oil and 
gas-focused Heatric business having a 
particularly challenging year as continued 
oil price weakness impacted its 
customers’ appetites for investment. The 
power generation part of our energy 
business saw good growth in the first half 
but the second half was weaker, driven by 
reduced investment by our customers, 
primarily utility companies. 
Against this background, organic revenue 
was flat. Underlying earnings per share 
decreased by 0.8p to 31.6p reflecting 
adverse business mix in the year from the 
weaker than expected aftermarket 
performance, particularly in the higher 
margin old aircraft spares, partially offset 
by the benefits from foreign exchange and 
the share buyback. Contribution from the 
acquisitions completed late in the year 
was not significant at the earnings level. 
Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the year 
was 2.3x (2014: 1.2x). The increase from 
last year reflects the effect of the 
aggregate £509m spend on acquisitions 
and the share buyback, and lower profit. 
Outlook
The outlook for our civil markets is 
encouraging. Production of large jets is 
expected to continue to grow in the 
medium term, and the high and growing 
shipset values we enjoy on the latest 
generation of large jets support organic 
civil OE revenue growth over the medium 
term ahead of the overall market growth. 
In 2016, we expect civil OE to grow 
organically in the low- to mid-single-digit 
percentage range, and for the composites 
acquisitions to add a further 20%.
Available seat kilometres, an important 
driver of our large and regional jet 
aftermarket, are growing at above the 
long-term trend. In combination with the 
expected output from the CSS 
organisation, which will enable us to 
address some of the areas of weakness 
we have seen in recent years, we expect 
to be able to outgrow the market for civil 
spares in the medium term. Shorter term, 
however, we anticipate a continued impact 
from the availability of surplus parts. This 
is expected to limit organic aftermarket 
growth in 2016 to low- to mid-single 
digits, with a further modest negative 
impact from revenue mix.
In military markets, we look to be 
entering a more benign phase with 
military budgets returning to growth for 
the first time in a number of years. We 
believe our strong technology offering 
and broad platform and customer 
exposure will enable us to outgrow the 
overall military market over the medium 
term, but we maintain a relatively 
cautious stance for 2016 reflecting 
weaker orders in 2015 and our view that it 
will take some time for cash to flow on the 
back of the recently agreed 2016 budget in 
the US. We therefore anticipate organic 
growth in the low-single-digit percentage 
range, with a further 10% from the 
composites acquisitions.
Our energy businesses have been 
impacted by the global slowdown in 
investment following the decline in the oil 
price, and we expect that this weakness 
will continue through 2016 resulting in 
further organic revenue decline, although 
the cost reduction activities we have 
initiated, and recently intensified, will 
partially mitigate the financial impact of 
this decline. Medium term, however, the 
strong technology franchise in Heatric 
and growth opportunities in energy 
condition monitoring give us confidence 
that our energy revenues will resume 
their growth trajectory.  
On the basis of the above, the Group 
expects organic revenue growth in 2016 of 
low-single-digit percentage points, in line 
with the guidance given in December, with 
revenue phasing expected to return to 
normal levels. The headcount reduction 
programme will offset the negative mix 
impact in the civil aftermarket. The 
acquisitions completed in the fourth 
quarter will increase reported revenue 
growth, as will foreign exchange if rates 
stay at or close to current levels.
Stephen Young Chief Executive
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REPORTS STRATEGIC REPORT 7
156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.indd   7 07/03/2016   04:15
