 Chairman’s statement
Difficult trading conditions in several 
end-markets made 2015 a challenging 
year for Meggitt, with weakness in energy 
and slower than expected growth in civil 
aftermarket impacting results. However, 
the Group made good progress with a 
number of key strategic initiatives targeted 
at improving our operational efficiency and 
market access. 
The Meggitt Production System, our global 
approach to continuous improvement, has 
now been launched at virtually all Meggitt 
facilities. We are very pleased with the 
operational improvements we have seen 
so far, and the programme is gaining 
excellent traction both inside the Group 
and with our suppliers and customers. 
We formed a new aftermarket organisation 
to respond better to the requirements of 
our customers, who are looking for 
long-term partnerships and strategies to 
improve airline economics. We also 
strengthened our capability in aerospace 
composites with two high-quality 
acquisitions, both of which will deliver 
good growth on new platforms entering 
into service over the coming years. 
Results
In 2015, Group revenue increased by 6% to 
£1,647.2 million, driven largely by foreign 
currency translation, with organic revenue 
flat. Underlying operating profit decreased 
by 6% to £325.5 million and underlying 
earnings per share by 2% to 31.6 pence. 
While this was a solid performance given 
difficult trading conditions, it was below our 
expectations and those of our stakeholders. 
The cash-generative nature of the Group’s 
activities remained unchanged, however, 
and 2015 saw a good improvement in free 
cash flow to £199.0 million, even with the 
continuing high levels of investment in the 
business arising from an unprecedented 
level of new business won during the 
recent bid cycle. 
Dividend 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
9.80 pence per share (2014: 9.50 pence 
per share), taking the full-year dividend to 
14.40 pence per share (2014: 13.75 pence 
per share). This is a 5% increase for the 
year, reflecting the Board’s progressive 
dividend policy and continuing confidence 
in the Group’s medium-term growth and 
cash generation prospects. 
Investing for growth
Our continued investment in technology 
will ensure the future growth of the 
business. In 2015, research and 
development expenditure comprised  
9.6% of revenue or £158.7 million (2014: 
£148.3 million), of which £26.8 million  
was funded by customers. The vast 
majority of this investment supports 
positions secured on future aerospace 
platforms and will continue at an elevated 
level during 2016 before declining as the 
wave of programmes in development 
starts to enter commercial service.  
These investments have a very attractive 
payback and will support revenue growth 
for many years.
Corporate governance and  
the Board 
The Board recognises that good corporate 
governance is a major contributor to the 
delivery of strong Group performance, 
and is therefore committed to maintaining 
the highest standards at Board level. As 
part of the normal evolution of the Board, 
there were a few changes since the last 
annual report. In April 2015, Sir Colin 
Terry retired after 12 years on the Board 
and I succeeded him as Chairman. In 
October, we welcomed Colin Day to the 
Board as non-executive director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. After 
over nine years as non-executive director, 
most recently as senior independent 
director, David Williams retired at the  
end of the year and Paul Heiden was 
appointed senior independent director 
with effect from January 2016. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank  
Sir Colin and David for their significant 
contributions to the business and wish 
them well for the future. 
Our people
People are central to the success of any 
business. All deserve to work in safe 
environments and reach their full 
potential. Meggitt’s safety record at every 
facility has benefited in recent years from 
the establishment of global standards, 
measurement and direction, and in 2015, 
for instance, we saw a 20% decrease in 
lost-time incidents in the workplace. The 
Meggitt Production System’s success is 
predicated on harnessing talent at every 
level in the organisation. We continue to 
invest in the delivery of superior graduate 
training, with an international rotation 
programme attracting high-calibre 
individuals from leading engineering 
faculties worldwide. After launching it 
three years ago, our first cohort 
graduated in October 2015 after making 
significant contributions to technology 
development, engineering programmes 
and a range of projects in their non-
engineering rotation. Given the wide-
ranging nature of our production system 
implementation, we have extended the 
programme with the addition of an 
operations excellence stream, now in its 
second year of admissions. 
I would like to take this opportunity to 
extend my warm thanks to all employees 
for their outstanding commitment during 
the Group’s challenging year. 
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman
Meggitt’s safety record at every 
facility has benefited in recent 
years from the establishment of 
global standards, measurement 
and direction.
“
”
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REPORTS STRATEGIC REPORT 5
