 “ Whilst it is anticipated that the end-market for Brush  
will remain challenging in 2016, we believe that  
focus on new product development and continued  
operational improvements will mean that Brush is  
well positioned in the marketplace to take advantage  
of new opportunities and any uplift in the market.”
Melrose continues its “buy, improve, 
sell” strategy of acquiring high-quality 
manufacturing businesses with the 
potential for significant development 
and improvement under Melrose 
management, undertaking operational  
improvements, realising the value in 
such businesses at the appropriate time 
and returning the value to shareholders.
Following Elster’s disposal, the Group  
now consists of Brush, the last remaining 
business from the FKI acquisition. The 
search for new businesses which meet 
Melrose’s investment criteria is a key 
objective in 2016, together with the continued 
improvement of its existing business.
Disposals during the year 
2015 marks yet another successful year  
for Melrose. Following an announcement  
in July 2015, Melrose completed the  
£3.3 billion disposal of the Elster business  
to Honeywell International Inc. in December. 
This represented a return of 2.3 times 
shareholders’ investment, which is a  
33% equity rate of return per annum  
in the three years since acquiring Elster  
for an enterprise value of £1.8 billion.
In addition, Honeywell International Inc. 
assumed Melrose’s FKI UK and McKechnie 
UK defined benefit pension plans, as well  
as the Elster-related pension obligations. 
These comprised the majority of the 
Group’s pension plans prior to the disposal.
Following the sale, and in accordance with 
our strategy, we announced our intention 
to return approximately £2.4 billion to 
shareholders in February 2016. Including 
this return and since being first listed  
on AIM in 2003, Melrose has returned 
approximately £4.3 billion in cash to 
shareholders. 
Brush
Brush Turbogenerators is the world’s 
largest independent manufacturer of 
electricity generating equipment for the 
power generation, industrial, Oil & Gas  
and offshore sectors. 
Despite a challenging year with difficult 
end-market conditions, actions taken in 2015 
are expected to result in a better performance 
in the medium-term. Investment also 
continues in product development, exploring 
new routes to market, with particular  
focus on Aftermarket, servicing and larger 
air-cooled generators. Driving efficiency  
and maintaining a firm control on costs  
will remain a focus for the future.
Action was instigated during the first half  
of 2015 to reduce the manufacturing  
cost base in line with the decline in sales. 
These actions were substantially concluded 
during the second half of the year.
During the course of the year, factory 
headcount was reduced by around 10% 
and opportunities were taken to improve 
capabilities across many areas of the 
business. During the second half of the  
year, attention was also given to reducing 
overheads, although there was no material 
financial impact in 2015. As a result of  
these actions, Brush finished the year as a 
stronger business and is better equipped to 
deal with the challenging market conditions.
The £30 million capital investment in a 
greenfield generator manufacturing plant 
near Shanghai, China, was completed 
during 2015, with operations commencing 
in March 2015. The new 14,400m
2
 
purpose-built facility will produce 2-pole 
variants of Brush’s 24 MVA to 150 MVA 
turbogenerators. Despite the Chinese 
Government’s commitment to switch  
from coal to gas-fired power generation, 
the move in favour of gas has been  
slower than anticipated. As a result, the 
development of this business is between  
18 months and two years behind  
original projections. 
The Aftermarket business also had a 
challenging first half of 2015, particularly  
in North America. It did, however, finish  
the year strongly. Significant investment 
has been made in increasing and improving  
the sales resource to underpin both the 
new-build and Aftermarket sales revenue. 
This is particularly important for Brush to aid 
development in new sectors of the market  
in a challenging environment. The investment 
in a rotor balance facility in Pittsburgh, US, 
nears completion and it is anticipated that 
the facility will be available for use in early 
2016. This will further enhance Brush’s North 
American Aftermarket business.
Switchgear revenue was lower this year 
than in 2014, mainly due to a greater 
proportion of large “direct current” projects, 
which are more susceptible to order 
placement delays than the standard 
Switchgear products.
The Transformer business had a much 
improved year, recovering from the 
previous Ofgem cycle and with sales 
finishing well ahead of 2014. Following its 
launch in 2015, the 132 kV range is gaining 
traction, with good potential for the future.
Outlook 
Whilst it is anticipated that the end-market  
for Brush will remain challenging in 2016, 
we believe that focus on new product 
development and continued operational 
improvements will mean that Brush is well 
positioned in the marketplace to take 
advantage of new opportunities and any 
uplift in the market.
As a result of current market conditions 
and more attractive valuations, your Board 
believes that there could be some exciting 
acquisition opportunities for Melrose in 
2016 and we are confident in our ability  
to find a deal that will create significant 
value for shareholders.
Simon Peckham 
Chief Executive 
3 March 2016 
Chief Executive’s review
10
Business review
Strategic Report
07
Melrose Industries PLC
Annual Report 2015
