 “ The Board is looking forward to another successful 
chapter in the Group’s history and, in due course,  
to invite shareholders to invest in the next project.”
I am pleased to report our 13
th
 set of 
annual results since flotation in 2003.
Results for the Group
2015 has been a highly successful year for 
Melrose and represents another milestone 
in our proven “buy, improve, sell” strategy.  
In March, £200.4 million was returned  
to shareholders following the sale of  
Bridon in November 2014. In December, 
we completed the sale of the Elster 
business to Honeywell International Inc.  
for a cash consideration of £3.3 billion  
and, at the same time, divested the related  
and certain unrelated pension obligations. 
Further details on this transaction are  
set out in the Chief Executive’s review  
on the opposite page. 
The presentation of this year’s results  
has been dominated by the Elster disposal, 
which contributed over three quarters  
of the revenue of the Group in 2014 and,  
up to the date of disposal, had contributed 
£1,107 .4 million to revenue during 2015.
Melrose’s remaining business, Brush,  
has faced a challenging year. Revenue  
from continuing businesses for the year  
was £261.1 million (2014: £324.3 million) 
and headline operating profit (before 
exceptional costs, exceptional income  
and intangible asset amortisation) was 
£20.8 million (2014: £47.7 million).
Further details of these results are 
contained in the Finance Director’s review 
on pages 20 to 26.
As ever, I would like to thank all our 
employees for their efforts in helping to 
produce this outstanding performance.
Dividend 
Following the sale of Elster and the 
subsequent £2.4 billion capital return, 
shareholders have received £4.3 billion  
of payments over the lifetime of Melrose, 
comfortably exceeding the £2 billion  
that they have invested. These payments 
to shareholders have come largely from 
significant gains on selling companies,  
but also from a progressive annual  
dividend policy.
The Board recognises that the Group has 
a different shape, owning one business 
and carrying no debt, and that prior to any 
new acquisition it is appropriate to rebase 
the annual dividend per share to reflect  
the current size and shape of the Group.
The Board proposes to pay a final  
dividend of 2.6p per share (2014: 5.3p).  
This will be paid on 16 May 2016 to those 
shareholders on the register at 8 April 
2016, subject to approval at the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) on 11 May 2016. 
Board matters
Succession planning is critical to 
maintaining the effectiveness and quality  
of the Melrose Board and it remains an 
area of focus for 2016. Perry Crosthwaite 
will be retiring from the Board at the 
conclusion of this year’s AGM. Perry  
has held a non-executive position on the 
Melrose Board since 2005 and his advice 
and extensive financial experience have 
been invaluable to Melrose; we wish him 
every success in the future. Perry will be 
replaced as senior non-executive Director 
by John Grant, who will also continue  
to hold the position of Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. A search is underway  
for a new non-executive Director and  
an appointment is expected to be made 
during the year. 
Strategy 
Since Melrose’s flotation in 2003 and  
the introduction of our “buy, improve, sell” 
strategy, we have seen many changes  
in economic and stock market conditions. 
Nevertheless, through all this, returns to 
shareholders have been extremely good. 
We continue to see businesses which  
are candidates for our management and 
investment methods and we are confident 
we will identify a suitable opportunity  
in due course. In the meantime, we will 
continue to focus on developing our 
existing business, Brush. 
Outlook 
The world economy remains uncertain. 
Across the manufacturing sector this 
uncertainty is leading to reduced business 
investment. Brush is not immune to these 
economic challenges. However, for the 
reasons set out in the Chief Executive’s 
review, we believe that Brush is well 
positioned to capitalise on new business 
opportunities and to benefit from any 
improvement in market conditions.
The search actively continues for 
businesses which meet our investment 
criteria. The Board is looking forward to 
another successful chapter in the Group’s 
history and, in due course, to invite 
shareholders to invest in the next project. 
Recent conditions in the global equity 
markets have only confirmed your Board’s 
view that 2016 could be an exciting year  
for Melrose and we are confident that  
a suitable acquisition will be identified, 
bringing with it another opportunity to 
create substantial value for shareholders. 
Christopher Miller
Chairman
3 March 2016
Chairman’s statement
20
Finance Director’s review
54
Corporate Governance Report
06
Melrose Industries PLC
Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report
