 CHAIRMAN’S
Statement
After a very successful first year following Merlin’s IPO in 
November 2013, 2015 was a more difficult year for your 
Company. The dominant event was the traumatic accident at 
Alton T owers on 2 June. Up to that moment our customers 
had enjoyed hundreds of millions of rides in complete safety. 
Nevertheless on that day our procedures and training did not 
prove adequate to the task of preventing this particular accident. 
We immediately accepted responsibility and are of course 
profoundly sorry for the trauma to those who were injured. 
We have already announced the direct cause and have 
introduced a series of enhanced and rigorous new protocols  
to ensure there can be no repetition of this accident.
Safety and customer service have always been the foundation 
upon which Merlin bases its appeal to our worldwide market.  
This will continue to be the case, and ensuring the safety of  
our customers will remain at the forefront of the Board’s 
oversight agenda.
Since June visitor numbers at Alton T owers were well below  
our original targets for the year. We announced to the market  
in July the expected impact this would have on the Company’s 
financial performance for the year, and these predictions have 
been borne out.
Despite the great shadow cast by this incident, I am able to report 
that business elsewhere in the Merlin empire performed satisfactorily. 
There were the usual swings and roundabouts but overall our 
performance delivered in line with the revised consensus.
Health,­safety­and­security
Merlin has a strong safety culture that underpins the delivery  
of millions of memorable experiences to our guests each year. 
On 2 June the serious accident at Alton T owers was a reminder 
of this imperative for the safety and security of our visitors to be 
at the centre of everything we do. Our thoughts remain with 
those injured and we will continue to support them in the  
future in whatever way we can. 
Our absolute focus is to make sure that, through continuous 
improvement, such an accident cannot happen again. Merlin  
has made specific improvements with regard to processes and 
procedures on rides like ‘The Smiler’. We also continue to invest  
in our Health and Safety teams and infrastructure around the 
Group and will ensure this investment continues as the Group 
grows. We have never been, nor will we ever be, complacent in 
this area. Our Health, Safety and Security Committee report on 
pages 66 to 69 provides more specific details on how we 
approach this most important area.
Sir­John­Sunderland
Chairman
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 CHAIRMAN’S Statement
T rading­performance­and­strategy
Our LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group had another strong 
year after the record performance in 2014. The parks broadened 
their demographic appeal with major investments in the ‘LEGO 
Friends’ product, and expanded their themed accommodation 
offering with the opening of a hotel at LEGOLAND Florida. 
Midway Attractions delivered a solid performance overall,  
albeit with specific regional challenges. Visitation to our London 
attractions was impacted by the relative weakness of the Euro, 
while travel restrictions affected trading in Hong Kong. Trading  
in the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group was materially 
impacted by the accident at Alton T owers, but we are  
particularly pleased with the performance of Gardaland,  
boosted by the opening of the ‘Oblivion’ dive-coaster,  
and our accommodation offering across the parks.
Merlin’s strategic development has continued. We launched a  
new ‘DreamWorks T ours’ brand, with the first attraction, based  
on the ‘Shrek’ film franchise, opening in July in London. We also 
announced a joint venture with China Media Capital to develop 
Midway attractions and a LEGOLAND park in China, further 
evidence of the opportunities we see in that growing market.
These specific developments add to our existing programme  
of rolling out Midway attractions, developing new LEGOLAND 
parks and creating destination resorts at our theme parks 
through the provision of themed accommodation.
Governance­and­the­Boar d
In January 2016 Andrew Carr, Merlin’s Chief Financial Officer, 
announced his intention to retire. On behalf of the Board I  
would like to thank him for the dedication he has shown  
to the Group during the last 16 years. He has been a major 
contributor to Merlin’s phenomenal growth during this period 
and its successful transition to a public company. We have 
recently announced that Anne-Francoise Nesmes will join in 
August as Andrew’s successor. We look forward to working  
with her as Merlin continues to grow. 
At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in May 2015, Dr. Gerry 
Murphy and Rob Lucas (the representatives of our two pre-IPO 
private equity shareholders Blackstone and CVC), stood down, as did 
Miguel Ko who left us due to other full time executive commitments. 
We thank them all for their valuable input. Following the 2015 AGM 
we were fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
I am very pleased that we have since appointed two new 
Non-executive Directors. Trudy Rautio and Yun (Rachel) Chiang 
bring with them wide experience in the major markets of the  
USA and China across leisure and other industries.
Dividends
The Board will be recommending to the AGM in May that  
we pay a final dividend of 4.4 pence per share in June. Taken 
together with the interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share  
paid last September, this will equate to a full year dividend  
of 6.5 pence per share, up 4.8% on 2014.
Corporate­social­r esponsibility­(CSR )
In 2015 Merlin’s CSR activities were brought together under  
one central theme of ‘Being a Force for Good’ to reinforce a 
consistent global approach that reflects Merlin’s values.
Within sustainability and the environment all our businesses are 
required to develop carbon reduction targets and sustainability 
plans. Under marine and wildlife conservation we focus our 
activities on protecting wildlife globally through rescue, breeding, 
conservation and education, most notably though the activities  
of our charity the SEA LIFE Trust. Merlin’s Magic Wand is our 
own children’s charity that delivers magical experiences around 
the world to children who are disadvantaged through sickness  
or disability. It does this by arranging visits to our attractions;  
by installing ‘magical spaces’ - themed areas at children’s homes  
and hospitals; and through community outreach activities where 
attraction teams ‘take the magic’ to local children’s organisations. 
Finally, we have the long term aspiration of becoming industry 
leaders for visitors affected by disability. Our accessibility  
initiatives are therefore aimed at raising awareness and  
delivering environments that provide access for everyone.  
More details can be found on pages 51 to 57.
Our­people
In this most challenging of years, I have yet again been impressed 
by the leadership and dedication of Merlin’s management team 
and our many thousands of employees around the world.  
I would like to thank all of them for their contribution. 
As we move into 2016, I am confident that with their  
continued commitment and our proven business model, we  
are well placed to continue to deliver further growth in the  
years ahead.
Sir­John­Sunderland
Chairman
24 February 2016
 I have yet again been 
impressed by the leadership 
and dedication of Merlin’s 
management team and  
our many thousands  
of employees
15
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
