 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
Report
Nick­ V arney
Chief Executive Officer
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 2015­TRADING­SUMMAR Y 2015 2014 Gr owth
Constant­ 
Curr ency­Gr owth
Visitors (m) 62.9 62.8 0.3%
Revenue (£m) 1,278 1,249 2.3% 3.9%
EBITDA (£m) 402 411 (2.1)% (1.1)%
Operating profit (£m) 291 311 (6.2)% (5.6)%
Like for like revenue growth  0.4%
Like for like EBITDA growth (4.3)%
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Report
Despite specific challenges in 2015, revenue grew by 3.9% on a constant currency basis reflecting the strength in the underlying 
brands and strategic growth drivers. The Group benefited from the continued strong performance in the LEGOLAND Parks 
Operating Group and the positive contribution from new attractions and accommodation. This was offset to a degree by more 
challenging market conditions in London and Hong Kong and the impact of the accident at Alton Towers on trading within the 
Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
These challenges, particularly the lower visitation at Alton Towers following the accident, created a drag on profitability, resulting  
in Group EBITDA declining by 1.1% on a constant currency basis.
Whilst there will always be macro-economic or geo-political factors outside of our control, we remain confident in the strength  
of the underlying business and the natural diversification that the growing portfolio creates.
2015 has without doubt been the most difficult year in  
Merlin’s history. The accident at Alton T owers in June and  
the media coverage around it, led to a significant reversal of  
the strong momentum we had seen in our UK Resort Theme 
Parks business and consequent impact on overall Company 
performance. More importantly, people we had a responsibility  
to safeguard sustained serious injuries and ride safety processes 
we believed robust on this occasion proved inadequate. 
Our focus since June has therefore necessarily been on ensuring 
we support those injured in every way we can while putting in 
place extensive measures to ensure such an accident cannot 
happen again. These measures are covered in more detail in  
the Health, Safety and Security (HSS) Committee Report. In 
addition, we continue to invest in further improvements to  
both engineering and health and safety across the estate,  
including additional compliance managers in all our theme  
parks and a new Group engineering function.
The new ‘DreamWorks T ours - Shrek’s Adventure!’ attraction in London
This represents a substantial additional investment on top  
of our already extensive HSS and engineering infrastructure  
which we must remember has delivered hundreds of 
millions of safe ride experiences over many years.
 Merlin remains well placed to deliver 
exciting growth in one of the most dynamic 
markets globally
17
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Looking­ahead
We continue to be confident in our strategy and the long term 
growth trajectory of the business, focused around the core six 
growth drivers. As we look to quicken the pace of expansion, 
against the backdrop of the macro trends identified above, 
we have set new strategic milestones out to 2020:
• 2,000 new accommodation rooms by the end of 2020
• 40 new Midway attractions by the end of 2020
•  Four new LEGOLAND parks by the end of 2020  
(including the three already announced)
The main geographic focus of this expansion will be North 
America and Asia. Within the latter we regard China, Japan 
and South Korea as priority markets. 
LEGOLAND Water Park in Florida
With regard to our existing estate the planned capex cycles  
are working well with a pipeline of innovative and compelling 
propositions coming out of Merlin Magic Making. ‘Derren Brown’s 
Ghost Train’ at THORPE PARK and ‘Galactica’, the fusion of 
Virtual Reality into an existing roller coaster at Alton T owers, 
are good examples which will be launching this year. 
We also continue to develop new ways of exploiting the  
synergies which arise from the Group’s scale. Over the next  
few years the biggest focus of this will be on the ways in which 
we can enhance the customer journey via imaginative use  
of technology. The central aspect of this will be the accesso
®
 
admissions/ticketing system, which started to roll out in 2015 after 
successful pilots, augmented by on-site downloadable apps and 
ibeacons to send visitors targeted messages. These new systems 
are also facilitating the data capture which will enable us to 
expand our CRM activities considerably in key markets meaning 
we can communicate with our customers on an ongoing basis.
 We hold global 
exclusivity for the LEGOLAND 
brand; the only attraction 
based representation of  
the LEGO toy brand
Merlin­today
While never forgetting the incident at Alton T owers and 
those affected by it we must nonetheless move forward. Merlin 
Entertainments remains well placed to deliver exciting growth in 
one of the most dynamic markets globally. In the world around 
us macro trends are increasingly evident:
•  The rapid growth of the middle classes in emerging  
countries, notably China, who have an appetite to consume 
high quality, branded, entertainment options and to travel; a 
phenomenon contributing to high growth in international 
tourism to ‘gateway cities’.
•  An increasing focus on Intellectual Property (IP) as the key 
ingredient to delivering compelling propositions and attractive 
financial returns. This is fuelling ever greater partnerships 
between brand/IP owners and delivery platforms such  
as location based entertainment.
•  The increasing trend in developed markets towards multiple 
short breaks at home or abroad.
•  The rapid and progressive move to an online and mobile 
transaction model in most countries. 
Within this evolving global environment it is worth restating  
the competitive advantages which Merlin possesses:
•  We hold global exclusivity for the LEGOLAND brand; the 
only attraction based representation of the LEGO toy brand 
which is now No. 1 internationally and one of the world’s 
strongest IP’s in its own right.
•  We are the only company to successfully operate the limited 
dwell time, indoor, Midway format across multiple brands  
and countries.
•  We have the most extensive geographic footprint of any 
company in our industry with the proven international roll  
out potential of our LEGOLAND resorts and Midway brands.
•  The addition of themed accommodation continues to deliver 
the double benefit of positioning our theme parks as short 
break resorts while yielding attractive returns in its own right.
•  In Merlin Magic Making we have a unique  
development resource which enables  
value enhancing growth from both  
the existing estate and new attractions.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
18 ‘Star Wars’ at Madame Tussauds London
Finally we are able to contemplate acquisitions and investments 
which strengthen our strategic position. We have just announced 
that Merlin is acquiring a minority stake in BIG BUS, the leading 
global owner-operator of Hop On Hop Off City T ours. We see 
significant synergies from this business with our own city centre 
attractions and there is already a clear overlap in cities such 
as London, New Y ork, Hong Kong and San Francisco. This 
investment will facilitate a closer working relationship on 
the ground while enabling us to learn about a highly  
complementary business.
The­Sparkle
With the increasing importance of IP in all areas of  
entertainment we have been working hard to establish a  
network of core partnerships which have value to both our 
existing estate and new developments business.
The relationship with the LEGO Group is well established and 
2016/2017 will see major co-operation around the relaunched 
LEGO NINJAGO brand with new rides and attractions at all parks 
and LEGOLAND Discovery Centres. This will be supported by 
the NINJAGO movie, scheduled for release by Warner Bros. in 2017.
Our partnership with DreamWorks Animation (DWA) is  
also developing with new themed lands in 2016 in Gardaland  
(Kung Fu Panda) and Heide Park (How to Train Y our Dragon)  
in addition to the new Midway brand ‘DreamWorks T ours - 
Shrek’s Adventure!’ being piloted in London. 
Beyond this, brand partnerships with specific IP’s such as  
‘Star Wars’ (Madame Tussauds), ‘CBeebies’ (Alton T owers) and 
‘Derren Brown’ (THORPE PARK) clearly demonstrate both 
the direction of travel and Merlin’s favourable position.
Merlin­people
After a challenging year we saw staff engagement at an all  
time high and Merlin voted one of the best 25 big companies  
to work for (for a second year in a row). We have a team that is 
passionate about the business and able to produce consistently 
high performances. This has yet again translated into increased 
visitor satisfaction. Our people section covers this in much more 
detail but suffice to say I am proud of and grateful to, in equal 
measure, the fantastic people who work for Merlin. 
And­finally …
In the first half of 2015 I had the opportunity to visit five of  
the ‘Merlin’s Magical Spaces’ installed at hospices and hospitals by  
the Merlin’s Magic Wand Charity. These multisensory experiences 
use Merlin’s brands and creativity to bring enjoyment to children 
whose lives are often tragically affected by illness and who, for this 
reason, cannot visit our attractions. The money for these projects 
is raised by the Merlin team, our guests and our partners and of 
all the things we do, this is the one of which we are most proud. 
Merlin is first and foremost an entertainment company. We exist 
to deliver memorable experiences to our millions of visitors and 
are doing so on an increasingly diverse, international, stage. Our 
market too is dynamic with an ever increasing interface between 
screen based and location based content and rapidly growing 
international tourism. With a clear strategy, a strong development 
pipeline and the brands and people to deliver them, Merlin is 
well placed to continue the magic well into the future.
Nick­ V arney
Chief­Executive­Officer
24 February 2016
 With a clear strategy,  
a strong development pipeline 
and the brands and people  
to deliver them, Merlin is well 
placed to continue the magic 
well into the future
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Report
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
19
