 My most important 
job is to ensure that 
we get our brands 
right, and free up 
the leaders of our 
teams to delight  
our guests again  
and again.
Over the coming pages I will share my views  
on the business, our strategy and KPIs, and  
our key risks and uncertainties. But I thought  
I would begin by taking a few moments to 
introduce myself as the new Chief Executive  
of your Company and to share with you some  
of my priorities going forward.
I joined M&B in January 2015 having gained 
over 25 years of experience in the UK 
hospitality sector, working for companies like, 
Scottish & Newcastle, Whitbread and Rank.  
In that time I have learnt that this sector is 
essentially all about people, and always will 
be. While it is important to have great sites, 
with strong brands, in good locations with 
relevant appealing offers, the differentiator  
is having a team of talented people who are 
passionate about giving their guests a great 
experience, each and every time they visit.  
My most important job as Chief Executive 
therefore is to ensure that we get our brands 
right, and then free up the leaders of our 
teams to do what they do best, which is to 
delight our guests again and again!
6
Mitchells & Butlers plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement
Phil Urban
Chief	 Executive If we are to achieve this aim we have a lot  
of work to do. We have to create the right 
balance of insight-driven brands, ensuring that 
we have the right offer in each location. We 
need to simplify the way we work, removing 
the bureaucracy in the business and freeing up  
our team to spend more time in the business 
serving our guests. We also need to instil a 
stronger commercial edge to the way we do 
business, driving profitable sales and value 
creation. Whilst doing all of this, we also  
need to continue identifying, developing  
and nurturing our ‘stars’, to secure the 
long-term future of our Company. 
This is against the market backdrop of 
increasing competition with a consumer who 
is becoming ever more demanding and a major 
cost headwind on the horizon in the form  
of the National Living Wage. However, such 
challenges are not new to the industry, to  
our Company or to me as an individual – and I 
believe that M&B has the scale and experience 
to carry on winning in this environment.
Phil Urban
Chief	 Executive
Our vision
What we want to be famous for
Guests love to eat and drink with us.
Our mission
What we set out to achieve
Consistently deliver great service to our guests to drive repeat visits  
and recommendation, while delivering great financial results and  
shareholder returns.
Values
How the business behaves
 • Passion
 • Respect
 • Innovation
 • Drive
 • Engagement
Our market  Page 8
Where we operate 
We recognise that we operate in a dynamic 
market with ever-changing circumstances. 
Our market is, in aggregate, a mature one 
with growth expected broadly to track GDP 
and consumer expenditure. However, there 
are dynamics within this market on which  
we can capitalise, namely the: 
 • growth in branded outlets
 • continued growth in eating-out
 • consumers’ continued focus on value
 • consumers’ demand for eating-out at  
any time of day
Business model  Page 14
How the business delivers value 
Our business model is designed to maximise 
revenue and profit from our operations. We 
believe that by adopting industry-leading 
practices; recruiting, training and retaining
the best people, and by focusing on 
excellent customer service we will  
deliver long-term growth in profits  
and shareholder value.
Our strategy  Page 16
How we will achieve our mission 
Our strategic priorities remain unchanged to:
 • focus the business on the most  
attractive market spaces within eating 
and drinking-out
 • develop superior brand propositions 
with high levels of consumer relevance
 • recruit, retain and develop engaged 
people who deliver excellent service  
for our guests
 • generate high returns on investment 
through scale advantage
 • maintain a sound financial base
Risks  Page 18
How we manage our markets and  
operating environment 
This section highlights the principal risks that 
affect the Company, together with the key 
mitigating activities in place to manage those 
risks. Key risks identified are reviewed and
assessed by the Risk Committee in terms of 
their likelihood and impact, in conjunction 
with associated risk mitigation plans.
KPIs  Page 22
How we monitor our success 
We measure our performance and  
progress against our strategy through five 
key performance indicators including two 
non-financial KPIs, relating to our ability  
to retain our employees and to the extent
that our guests would recommend our 
businesses to their friends and family.  
These KPIs are reviewed at every Executive 
Committee meeting and are central to  
our understanding of our performance.
7
Mitchells & Butlers plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Governance  34–69 Financial statements  70–115 Shareholder  information  116 Strategic report  2–33
