 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 04
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2015 has been a year of real progress across the Group. 
Fit Out has outperformed our expectations, with signicant margin growth, and Urban Regeneration has again delivered a strong 
performance. This gives evidence of our long-term strategic commitment and the depth of expertise in both divisions.
Although margins in Construction & Infrastructure have remained low as expected, it was encouraging to see the steady improvement in 
performance over the second half of the year having made progress in closing out its older lower margin construction contracts in London 
and the South. The division now stands on a much stronger footing going forward. 
Affordable Housing has made good progress focusing on its regeneration mixed-tenure housing portfolio which will support future sales in 
2016. The division’s Property Services business was rebranded in early 2015 and we have since seen good progress in winning and 
delivering important work across the UK. 
Cash management and capital allocation remains a key priority for the Group and the underlying cash generation of the Group has supported 
the continued investment in our strategic growth regeneration activities.
My thanks go to our people for their continuing hard work and commitment this year. After last year’s launch of the People Promise, each 
division has made progress in adopting its principles and introduced initiatives to ensure we attract the right people and develop and retain 
our existing employees. This will strengthen succession planning across the Group. 
Health, safety and the environment are always at the forefront of our minds and the Board established a health, safety and environment 
sub-committee in May 2015 to assist the Board in fullling its responsibilities in these areas. Further details can be found in the corporate 
governance report on page 69.
During the year we welcomed Malcolm Cooper to the Board as a non-executive director. Malcolm is currently managing director of National 
Grid Property, having previously been National Grid plc’s global tax and treasury director, and his extensive nancial and commercial 
capability will complement the existing experience of the Board. Malcolm will take over as chair of the audit committee at the annual general 
meeting in May 2016.
Encouraged by the year-end result and by these trends going forward, the Board is proposing a nal dividend of 17.0p per share (2014: 
15.0p), an increase of 13.3%. This brings the total dividend for 2015 to 29.0p per share (2014: 27.0p), which represents a year-on-year 
increase of 7.4%, reecting the Board’s condence in our future prospects.
ADRIAN MARTIN / CHAIRMAN
GREAT 
MOMENTUM 
ACROSS THE  
GROUP
