 MOSS BROS GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014/15 I 3 
Job No: 21485 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2014/15 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report another year of continued good progress for the Group. 
Total like-for-like* sales including VAT reflected a 5.5% increase on the prior year. Profit before taxation 
was up 9.0% to £4.8m, compared with £4.4m in the previous year. EBITDA** continued on a positive trend 
to £9.7m, compared with £9.2m in the previous year. Similarly, our cash position continues to be very 
strong, despite investing in additional hire stock and the ongoing refit programme.
The retail environment was more competitive during the year, with heavy discounting around new events 
like Black Friday. We remained focused on our core offer and traded our way through what was for us and 
most retailers a significant shift in consumer buying patterns.
We continued to develop the Moss Bros master brand and re-launched the supporting sub-brands as Moss 
London, Moss 1851, and Moss Esq., and ran a number of creative marketing campaigns, which attracted 
positive national recognition. 
Actions to improve performance further have included investment in our product offer, which included the 
launch of a more modern range through the Moss London brand, the development of a strong casualwear 
range and the successful launch of hire lounge suits. The store refit programme continued with 14 refits 
completed in the year, and given the success of these refits both from a trading and a brand perception 
viewpoint, we have confirmed plans to accelerate our store refit programme in 2015, with 27 refits planned. 
The increased investment will impact cash in the short term but the proven three year payback means 
we will quickly recoup the funds invested and accelerate the reappraisal of our brands amongst our 
target customers.
In conjunction with these commercial initiatives, the business participated in the ‘Undercover Boss’ TV 
programme, which, as well as promoting the brand, highlighted a number of opportunities to improve the 
way we engage our employees in the development of the business. We will be investing in resources in the 
coming year to accelerate our employee development programme. 
We continued the development of the organisation to support our multi-channel aspirations, bringing 
marketing and e-commerce together in early 2015. 
The team continues to apply strong cash and working capital controls and the business continues 
to be debt free, with a healthy cash balance, supporting the Board’s progressive dividend and 
investment policies.
*  Like-for-like represents financial information for stores open during both the current and prior financial periods and compares 53 weeks against 
53 weeks, except for stores refitted in the period, where the period closed for refit is excluded from both the current and prior financial periods.  
Like-for-like Hire sales are calculated on cash receipts in the period, before adjustment for the movement in the level of hire deposits held.
** EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. 4 I MOSS BROS GROUP PLC shop on-line at www.mossbros.co.uk
Job No: 21485 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2014/15 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
The Board is proposing the payment of a final dividend of 3.55 pence per share to be paid on 26 June 2015 
to all shareholders on the register on 5 June 2015 (ex dividend date 4 June 2015). The total dividend for 
the year is 5.25 pence per share, an increase of 5% on the previous year. It is our intention to continue this 
progressive dividend policy balanced against the wider investment needs of the business. 
In the coming year, we will accelerate our capital expenditure through the store refit programme, leverage 
the CRM database with one single view of the customer and build on our multi-channel offer. 
The continued development of the Moss Bros brand will enhance our position as ‘the No.1 men’s suit 
specialist’. Although we see a continuation of competitive market conditions, we are well placed to build on 
our specialist credentials and to grow our market share.
Finally, we would like to thank our people for their continued hard work and contribution to another 
successful year.
DEBBIE HEWITT
CHAIRMAN
2 April 2015
