 Andrew Shil Ston 
ChAIRMAn
ChAIRMAn ’S STATEMEn T
05
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Overview Th E GROu P h AS DEl IVERED SOl ID 
FIn An CIAl PERFORMA n CE In A 
DIFFICul T TRADIn G En VIROn MEn T. 
Th E REVIEW OF Th E GROu P’S 
STRATEGy, Th E Ch An GES TO Th E 
ORGAn ISATIOn STR u CTu RE, An D 
Th E SETTIn G OF Cl EAR Ex ECu TIOn 
PRIORITIES POSITIOn S Th E GROu P 
WEll TO DEA l WIT h C h All En GIn G 
MARKET COn DITIOn S.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS 2015 was another year when Morgan 
demonstrated the resilience of its current 
portfolio of products and businesses. Despite 
the collapse in the oil price affecting a number 
of our customers and the uncertainties in 
many markets, particularly China, the Group 
delivered a Group EBITA and a cash flow 
from operations very much in line with 
expectations, albeit with an EBITA margin 
a little lower at 12.0% compared to 12.8% 
in 2014. Sales at constant currency were 
broadly the same as in 2014 at £91 1.8 million. 
Cash performance was also good with net 
debt of £216 million at the end of the year 
despite heavy investment in capital expenditure. 
It is proposed that the final dividend remains 
unchanged at 7.0 pence per share, which 
would take the full-year dividend to 1 1.0 
pence, compared with 10.9 pence in 2014.
The Board continues to believe that the 
technology, applications engineering and 
customer relationships the Group possesses 
should enable revenue to grow in years to 
come. It is also recognised that despite the 
significant steps taken to exit low-margin 
businesses, the Group remains too complicated 
and needs to focus on fewer products and 
markets, concentrating management effort 
and financial investment on those that offer 
the greatest opportunities for growth.
It is with great pleasure that the Board 
welcomes Pete Raby as the new Chief 
Executive. As he explains in his review, 
considerable progress has been made in 
defining a new framework for the Group, both 
in terms of addressable markets and changes 
to the way we operate in order to capitalise on 
opportunities. The Board fully supports these 
changes, which build on the solid foundation 
established over the last 10 years, but it will 
take time, particularly with uncertain markets, 
for the benefits to be realised.
Pete Raby became Chief Executive in August 
and for the first seven months of the year 
Kevin Dangerfield was the acting CEO, 
a role he performed very well alongside the 
responsibilities of being the Chief Financial 
Officer. The Board is very grateful for 
these efforts.
The Chief Operating Officer, Andrew h osty, 
left the Group at the beginning of 2016 after 
24 years with the Group, and the Board 
thanks him for his contribution in helping 
to position the Group for growth. We wish 
him well for the future.
Find out more
www.morganadvancedmaterials.com
Other changes to the Board have recently 
been announced with the appointment of 
h elen Bunch, effective 24 February 2016, 
and the stepping down of Victoire de Margerie 
on 4 February due to the growth in her other 
commitments. The Board thanks Victoire for 
her significant contribution to the Group over 
the last four years and is delighted to welcome 
h elen. I believe that the composition and 
operation of the Board allows it to make 
an effective contribution to the progress 
of the Group. 
The changes that Pete Raby is proposing to 
the Group will involve considerable efforts 
and offer new opportunities to many 
employees in the Group. It will also involve 
some roles being eliminated. The Board 
wishes to recognise the impact the new 
organisation will have on everyone and to 
recognise in advance the contribution by 
all employees in making the transition as 
smooth as possible. 
Andrew Shil Ston
ChAIRMAn
ChAIRMAn ’S STATEMEn T
continued
06 Overview Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015
