 8 I MOSS BROS GROUP PLC shop on-line at www.mossbros.co.uk
Job No: 21485 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2014/15 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
The Group has continued to make good progress through the year. A focus on brand development, product 
improvement and strong operational delivery and cost control has enabled us to continue to grow profits. 
MULTI-CHANNEL PROJECT
Our previously stated project to implement a multi-channel shopping environment for our customers 
is nearing completion. The new hire website, launched in November 2013, marked the successful 
introduction of a single customer database across stores and on-line, including a full transaction history 
for customers. We are now in the final stages of rolling out our single customer database across our retail 
stores and websites. Once completed this will enable customers to shop for retail and hire seamlessly 
across a range of channels (in-store, PC, tablet, mobile) and we will be in a position to utilise customer 
relationship management software tools to focus customer communications on propositions that are 
relevant and appealing. An option for customers to receive their in store payment receipt via email has 
been introduced, and has been linked to a customer feedback system to monitor customer experience. 
As well as improving our customer experience, this will increase email collection rates and associated 
marketing opportunities. Social media is being used successfully to gain traction for the Moss Bros brand 
across a number of platforms.
RETAIL
We have continued to implement operational improvements across the business and our programme of 
refitting stores, together with the successful launch of our new sub brand line up, impacted positively 
on the like-for-like* sales, which were up by 7.1% on the previous year (2013/14: 6.4%). The promotional 
activity around Black Friday, held over the last weekend of November, generated significant customer 
interest across stores and online and affected the pattern of sales and margin across the key trading 
weeks, although there was some downward pressure on gross margins, which ended the year 0.1% below 
the previous year. Stock levels were kept closely under control. 
As planned, we opened six new stores and closed nine stores in the UK in the year. We are considering 
further new store opening opportunities in the UK in the next 12 months. The Group now trades from 
130 stores.
The inherent flexibility in our property estate gives us options in what we anticipate will be a fast changing 
retail landscape. The average lease length across the store portfolio is 53 months and we are targeting 
improved lease terms on renewal, of a 10 year term, with a tenant only break clause at year 5. The 
underpinning of hire and the demand for e-commerce ‘click & collect’ and ‘click & return’ points, together 
with advantageous lease deals, means there is an opportunity to expand our store footprint on a selective 
and cost effective basis, with good returns.
HIRE
Overall like-for-like* hire sales fell by 3.6% in the year. The shortfall was however confined to weddings 
with evening wear, Royal Ascot and school proms showing good levels of growth. We have carried out a 
full review of our product offer and customer experience. We have invested in new hire stock, introducing 
our lounge suit offer with two new styles, introducing new styling within our morning suit offer, and adding 
to our branded ranges which have proved popular. A number of initiatives around stock management and 
customer communications have been launched and we are confident that the product availability and 
customer experience will be improved for the 2015 season. 
We are confident our position as the leading hire brand will be maintained through the product and 
technology initiatives currently underway.
*   Like-for-like represents financial information for stores open during both the current and prior financial periods and compares 53 weeks against 
53 weeks, except for stores refitted in the period, where the period closed for refit is excluded from both the current and prior financial periods. 
Like-for-like Hire sales are calculated on cash receipts in the period, before adjustment for the movement in the level of hire deposits held. MOSS BROS GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014/15 I 9 
Job No: 21485 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2014/15 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
E-COMMERCE
Sales performed very strongly, with the rate of sales growth at 58.9% up on the previous year. Online sales 
now represent 7.8% of total sales (2013/14: 5.1%). Site traffic, conversion and retention rates are all on 
improving trends and the returns rate is steady at 23%. The mobile and tablet enabled website continues to 
grow strongly and now comprises 35% of total e-commerce sales.
Expansion into international markets is underway with dedicated, local currency sites for Eire, Sweden, 
Denmark, Netherlands, and Australia. Further territories are planned for 2015/16. E-commerce has also 
proved to be a very efficient means of clearing end of lines stock with faster sell through rates and an 
improvement in prices achieved.
The hire website continues to gain traction and we believe the recently added group hire functionality 
should support further growth. Results are encouraging and there is strong evidence of wedding hire 
customers beginning their journey online before engaging with our stores to complete the transaction – a 
true multi channel experience. Based on customer feedback a number of enhancements are planned for 
2015 to improve customer experience and therefore conversion rates.
SUPPLY CHAIN AND COSTS
The earlier clearance of residual stocks has enabled new seasons’ stock to be introduced in stores earlier, 
improving the customer offer and enabling much greater scope for tactical promotions. 
The increase in direct sourcing of stock from the Far East has increased our exposure to foreign exchange 
risk which is mitigated by our hedging policy.
PEOPLE
The next stage of the development of the business will focus closely on the development of our people, with 
clear career paths established so that staff who aspire to progress within the business have the scope and 
support to do so. Investment in staff training in the form of recruitment, induction, performance appraisal 
and performance management continues with a range of courses available and increased numbers of staff 
being trained. We will increase our focus on this area during 2015. Our customer insight project confirmed 
that excellent customer service is vitally important to our customers and will clearly differentiate us, 
particularly given our intended implementation of a multi-channel shopping environment. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Performance improvement across the business continued in 2014/15 with good like-for-like* sales growth 
and continued control over costs. Underlying profit before taxation on continuing operations was £4.8m, 
compared with a profit of £4.4m in the previous year, an increase of 9.0%.
REVENUE
Overall revenue was up 5.1% (up 5.5% like-for-like*) on the previous year to £114.7m. Retail was up 7.0% 
(up 7.1% like-for-like*) on the previous year. As reported, hire had a difficult year and was 4.9% lower 
(down 3.6% like-for-like*) on the previous year. 
GROSS MARGIN
Underlying gross margin decreased by 70 basis points in the year (58.3% vs 59.0%), due in part to the lower 
participation of hire, which is higher margin, in the overall sales mix.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share on total earnings was 4.02 pence compared with 3.76 pence per share last year. 
Diluted earnings per share, on total earnings, was 3.80 pence per share compared with 3.53 pence per 
share last year.
*   Like-for-like represents financial information for stores open during both the current and prior financial periods and compares 53 weeks against 
53 weeks, except for stores refitted in the period, where the period closed for refit is excluded from both the current and prior financial periods.  
Like-for-like Hire sales are calculated on cash receipts in the period, before adjustment for the movement in the level of hire deposits held. 10 I MOSS BROS GROUP PLC shop on-line at www.mossbros.co.uk
Job No: 21485 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2014/15 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
DIVIDEND
Given the strong progress made in 2014/15 and the ongoing cash generation the Board feels it is 
appropriate to propose the payment of a final dividend of 3.55 pence per share (2013/14: 4.7 pence) 
bringing the total for the year to 5.25 pence per share, compared with 5.0 pence per share for the 
year ended 25 January 2014, an increase of 5%. The final dividend is to be paid on 26 June 2015 to all 
shareholders on the register as at 5 June 2015 (ex dividend date 4 June 2015).
INVESTMENT
Total capital expenditure in the year was £8.1m (2013/14: £6.1m) and depreciation and amortisation was 
£5.0m (2013/14: £4.9m). This included the opening of six new stores and the refurbishment of 14 stores. 
The total capital expenditure included further investment in new Moss Bros hire inventory of £1.4m 
(2013/14: £1.6m), whilst depreciation on hire inventory was £0.9m (2013/14: £0.8m).
CASH AND LIQUIDITY
The year end cash balance was £19.6m compared with £28.3m last year as a result of investment in store 
refits and hire stock, and payment of dividends in line with our progressive dividend policy.
INVENTORY
The mix of inventory in the business was re-geared during the year to ensure sufficient inventory was 
available to support sales across the business including earlier intake of new season’s lines to maximise 
full price sales and gross margin. Stock at the year end was £15.7m. (2013/14: £13.5m).
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
The terms and conditions with our suppliers are reviewed and adjusted so as to maximise the average 
cash balance, whilst improving the product gross margin.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
The Board believes Moss Bros has an exciting future, with the growth of e-commerce underpinning the move 
to full multi-channel retailing in 2015/16. The adoption of Moss Bros as the master brand, supported by 
complementary sub brands and introduction of carefully targeted marketing activity, represents a significant 
opportunity. In order to maximise this opportunity, and with the increasing role that digital has to play in 
marketing, we brought marketing and e-commerce together in January 2015 and created the new position of 
Omni Channel Director, an important step in the process to becoming a fully multi-channel retailer . This will 
ensure a continuity of brand presentation and pricing across all our channels. The introduction of customer 
relationship management (“CRM”) following the full implementation of multi-channel in 2015/16, and the ongoing 
store refurbishment programme, will enhance further the customer experience and perceptions of the brand. 
RETAIL
The store refit programme is now entering its fourth year and 58 stores are now trading with the new look 
store format. Recognising that refitted stores are consistently achieving the three year payback criteria 
and in light of cash reserves available for investment, the Board has decided to accelerate significantly the 
refit programme with 27 stores planned for refit in 2015/16. This will have an impact on cash reserves in 
the short term due to the timing of capital expenditure but given the short payback period and the related 
reduced capital expenditure in 2016/17 this will be recouped quickly. 
HIRE
We will continue to leverage the opportunities to grow our market share through all distribution channels 
including the transactional internet site, launched in November 2013, which marked our entry into 
multi-channel, and which has seen traffic levels above expectations. Group hire functionality has recently 
been added to the website and a number of further improvements are planned for 2015. We will also explore 
new markets and the continued growth of the School Proms hire market is very encouraging. Investment in 
new product areas has been sharply increased to £2.5m in 2015 (2013/14: £1.4m), and includes lounge suits, 
new styling within our morning suit offer, and further variations of branded morning suits.  MOSS BROS GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014/15 I 11 
Job No: 21485 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2014/15 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
Early season wedding bookings for 2015 are showing an improvement on the prior year. It is too early to say 
if this upturn will be sustained but the business is in excellent shape to build market share.
Moss Hire also offers one of the most significant opportunities to develop our customer offering 
by leveraging the rich source of customer data, many of whom are currently unaware of, or do not 
consider the Moss Retail offer. We believe the opportunities for CRM, in the context of a multi-channel 
offer, are significant.
E-COMMERCE
We plan to exploit further growth opportunities both in the UK and overseas through building on our 
success and leveraging the advantages that full multi-channel capability will bring. Additional websites for 
overseas markets are planned. 
SUPPLY CHAIN & COSTS
Our supply chain continues to be of significant importance in delivering service and efficiencies. 
We anticipate central costs will increase in line with turnover in 2015/16 as we increase our investment in 
marketing and our multi-channel capability.
Capital expenditure for 2015/16 is estimated at £14m, including £7.5m for 27 store refits and £2.5m for 
hire stock. 
INFRASTRUCTURE
We successfully upgraded our Stock Control and Distribution Centre systems in 2014/15 and plans are in 
place to upgrade our Point of Sale systems. Implementation risk has been mitigated through upgrading 
existing systems, rather than wholesale replacement. The upgrade is largely cost neutral with lower 
annual maintenance costs offsetting higher depreciation charges. The upgrade of Point of Sale will involve 
capital expenditure of £0.4m in 2015/16. Additional one off costs of £0.2m will be incurred in 2015/16 
during the implementation period.
As well as introducing latest technology, the upgrade will improve business efficiency and our 
customer experience.
With the introduction of multichannel, growth of e-commerce and shortening of product lead times, the 
efficiency of the Distribution Centre is central to our ability to serve our customers. The investment made 
in IT in 2014/15 will enable further operational improvements to be made.
PEOPLE
We plan to maintain our focus on staff training and development with increased emphasis on improving 
customer satisfaction within a multi-channel environment. 12 I MOSS BROS GROUP PLC shop on-line at www.mossbros.co.uk
Job No: 21485 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: Moss Bros Project Title: Report & Accounts 2014/15 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
OUTLOOK
We continue to make good progress in the delivery of our strategic priorities. The modernisation of the 
store portfolio is achieving the anticipated returns and we have exciting plans for the implementation of 
a multi-channel shopping environment. The adoption of the master brand “Moss Bros” and launch of 
our sub brands in Autumn 2014 have improved the resonance the brand has with current and potential 
customers of all age groups.
Hire is showing signs of recovery and we are well placed to maximise revenues in the 2015 Wedding 
season. The early response to the 2015 Spring/Summer retail range is positive, with retail like-for-like* 
sales continuing to improve year on year as we move out of the winter clearance activity. 
The Group’s trading performance continues positively, in line with the Board’s expectations.
BRIAN BRICK
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
2 April 2015
*  Like-for-like represents financial information for stores open during both the current and prior financial periods and compares 53 weeks against 
53 weeks, except for stores refitted in the period, where the period closed for refit is excluded from both the current and prior financial periods. 
Like-for-like Hire sales are calculated on cash receipts in the period, before adjustment for the movement in the level of hire deposits held.
