 Pete rA by 
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER
WITh GOOD B u SIn ESSES In ATTRACTIVE MARKETS 
An D COMMITTED EMPl Oy EES, WE h AVE A nu MBER 
OF OPPORTun ITIES TO GROW. GOIn G FORWARD, 
WE WIll FOC u S On O u R CORE STREn GTh S An D 
On DOI n G FEWER Th In GS BETTER, In ORDER TO 
DEl IVER RESIl IEn T FIn An CIAl PERFORMA n CE An D 
FASTER GROWTh.
I am delighted to be reporting to you as the 
Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Advanced 
Materials plc. My decision to accept this role 
was based on the challenges and opportunities 
that I thought Morgan would offer and my 
experience over the seven months since 
I joined has affirmed this decision. Morgan 
is a good business with committed employees, 
differentiated technology, strong applications 
engineering capability and a good reputation 
with our customers.
Before I comment on the results for the year 
and expectations for the future I want to take 
the opportunity to thank Kevin Dangerfield 
and Andrew h osty for their contribution in 
2015. Kevin was Interim CEO from the start 
of the year until my arrival in early August and 
led the Group well during that period.
Andrew h osty left the Group at the beginning 
of 2016. In his 24 years with Morgan, most 
recently in the role of Chief Operating Officer, 
Andrew made a considerable contribution 
to the Group. I would like to thank him for his 
commitment and service and wish him well 
for the future. 
Group results
Group revenue for 2015 was £91 1.8 million, 
1.1% below 2014 at reported exchange rates. 
On a like-for-like basis, Group revenue was 
lower by 0.8% – growth in Europe, particularly 
in the Thermal business, was offset by weaker 
conditions in a number of n orth American 
markets and in Asia, where sales in China 
were approximately 10% lower than in 2014. 
l ike-for-like sales in the second-half of 2015 
were 3.1% lower than in the first-half of 
2015. Whilst Asia achieved some revenue 
improvement in second-half, with strong 
growth in Korea and Japan, this was more than 
offset by revenue declines in Europe 
and n orth America, reflecting the wider 
slowdown in those markets. 
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
07
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS The EBITA margin of 12.0% for 2015 
compares with the 2014 margin of 12.8%, 
with the weaker trading conditions impacting 
margins, partially offset by cost reductions.
Group underlying EPS reduced to 20.8 pence 
(2014: 22.1 pence).
During 2015 the Group increased its R&D 
investment to 2.8% of revenue and successfully 
established the new Global Materials Centre 
of Excellence for structural ceramics in 
Stourport, u K. 
This is an important further step in strengthening 
our technology development capability and 
accelerating the development and introduction 
of new products. 
n et capital expenditure of £62.7 million was 
significantly higher than the £32.5 million in 
2014. The Group has continued its investment 
in additional capability and capacity, particularly 
in the Asia/Rest of World region and in the 
insulating ceramic fibre business stream, to 
support future growth. In addition to this, the 
2015 capital expenditure included approximately 
£12 million for the acquisition of the freehold 
of the Swansea, u K facility. 
Operating cash generation was good, with a net 
cash inflow from operating activities of £135.6 
million (2014: £120.0 million). n et debt at the 
year end was £216.0 million (2014: £207 .0 
million). The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the 
year-end remained relatively low at 1.6 times – 
the increase relative to the 1.4 times at the end 
of 2014 was due largely to the high level of 
capital expenditure in 2015, but the Group 
remains well within its banking covenants and 
has good headroom and balance sheet capacity 
for appropriate future investment. 
Group strategy review 
Between September 2015 and February 2016 
we have completed a review of the Group’s 
strategy and have set the overall vision and 
direction for the Group. We have assessed 
our strengths and weaknesses, reviewed 
the market position and outlook for our key 
technologies and products and developed 
a long-term goal for the Group and a set of 
medium-term execution priorities.
Our long-term goal is to build a Group with 
distinctive capabilities and performance in 
three areas:
1. Materials science capability and technology
2. Application engineering capability
3. Customer and end-market focus
We have strengths in these areas today to 
build on, and these capabilities will be our 
focus. Through the application of our skills in 
these areas we will add value as a Group. 
We will apply these skills in markets that are 
growing and where we can operate at scale, 
on a global basis. We will apply these skills to 
solve difficult materials-based problems for our 
customers, ethically and safely, and where they 
value our differentiated solutions. This set of 
capabilities provides a resilient and distinctive 
source of differentiation and is an enduring 
strategic goal for the Group.
To reach this goal we need to develop our 
capabilities further and address performance 
gaps in the business. We have set six execution 
priorities that we will pursue over the next 
three years to strengthen the Group and 
deliver resilient financial performance and 
faster growth:
1. Move to a global business structure
At the same time as the release of the 2015 
full-year results, we have announced a new 
management structure which sees the Group 
being organised on a global business basis, 
with two global divisions and six business units:
 > Thermal Products division. Organised 
in two global business units:
 – Thermal Ceramics
 – Molten Metal Systems
 > Carbon and Technical Ceramics division. 
Organised in three global business units:
 – Electrical Carbon 
 – Seals and Bearings
 – Technical Ceramics 
 > Composites and Defence Systems. 
A single global business unit.
This re-organisation will improve global 
co-ordination across the Group and will 
strengthen accountability within each global 
business unit. There will be a simplified 
approach to global customers and markets, 
increased efficiencies driven through best 
practice sharing and better leverage of R&D 
across regions. There will be greater 
operational focus, including better planning 
and management of our manufacturing 
footprint, better alignment of technology 
development priorities with customer needs 
and growth opportunities in global market 
segments. The Asia/Rest of World region 
is an important growth driver for the Group 
and the investment in capability and capacity 
will continue and there is a dedicated senior 
resource in the structure to drive Asian 
growth. Where appropriate, resources 
will continue to be shared, for example 
in IT and key h R functions, within regions 
rather than diluted or replicated. 
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
continued
08 Strategic report Morgan aDV anCED Ma TErIaLS  annuaL rEpor T 2015 2. Improve our technical leadership 
We will increase our R&D investment to grow 
our technical lead and accelerate new product 
development, reducing time to market. 
We have two successful centres of excellence 
today, Insulating Fibre, part of Thermal 
Ceramics, and Structural Ceramics, part of 
Technical Ceramics, and two more will be 
established, Brazing and Joining, in Technical, 
and one for Carbon Science that will support 
Electrical Carbon and Seals and Bearings. 
These centres allow us to concentrate 
development efforts for these materials and 
capabilities. R&D spend was increased to 
2.8% of sales in 2015 and we anticipate 
increasing this by around 1% of sales over 
the next three to five years, funded by savings 
from improved operational execution. We 
will strengthen our stage gate development 
process and ensure it is applied consistently 
across the Group. 
3. Improve our operational execution
We have a number of opportunities to improve 
our operational execution – both our efficiency 
and our effectiveness. The operational 
opportunity varies by business unit and we will 
allocate capital and target specific improvements 
to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-
by-business basis. For example, our Thermal 
Ceramics business will target efficiency 
improvements through a combination of global 
best practice implementation, application of lean 
manufacturing techniques and global sourcing 
of raw materials; the Technical Ceramics 
business will focus on improvements in quality, 
yield, scrap and delivery; and, Electrical Carbon 
will focus on capacity utilisation and efficiency. 
4. Drive sales effectiveness and market focus
Through the change in organisation structure 
we will strengthen accountability for global 
customers and simplify co-ordination for global 
end-markets within the business units. During 
2016 we will be focused on improving a 
number of aspects of our sales process and 
capabilities. We will focus on our sales process 
and its efficiency, the management of key 
customer accounts, the management of our 
distribution channels and deepening our 
understanding of end-markets and their faster 
growing segments. The Group has a good 
relationship with its existing customers but there 
is more to be done to win new customers and 
take our solutions to new markets. 
5. Increase investment in people management 
and development
We are aiming to strengthen our leadership 
capability and deepen functional capabilities 
across the business, including in sales and 
engineering. Senior leaders will be benchmarked 
externally, new talent introduced and future 
leadership candidates identified from within 
the business. Performance management will 
be enhanced for the Group’s top management 
and the structures and targets for incentive 
schemes will be reviewed. The Group will invest 
more in executive training and create clear 
career paths for its technologists and engineers. 
The intake of graduate trainees will be increased 
from 30 to 50 a year over the next four years. 
6. Simplify the business
Through the re-organisation of our business 
we will focus on running each business unit 
on a global basis, looking, over time, to build 
our business units to global scale and exit 
those products and markets where we cannot 
achieve that. 
We will continue to refine our strategy 
during 2016 and in particular will build our 
implementation plans in greater detail and 
refine our approach as we learn from the 
initial implementation work. 
looking forward
With the global market environment 
particularly uncertain as we enter 2016, 
we have planned prudently for the year. 
We will continue to invest in priority 
technologies and capabilities to improve 
the resilience of the Group, improve our 
execution and position us for future growth. 
Pete rA by
Ch IEF Ex ECu TIVE OFFICER
09
  Annu Al report 2015  MorgAn ADVAnCeD MA terIAlS
Strategic report OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAn CE FIn An CIAl STATEMEnTS
