 2 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Chairman’s Statement
Bruce Carnegie-Brown
Chairman
Results
2015 was another year of growth with the Group’s revenue 
increasing by 14% from £248.1m to £281.7m and adjusted 
operating profit increasing by 15% from £87.3m to £100.1m.
The Group achieved growth across all three brands: 
MoneySuperMarket, MoneySavingExpert and 
TravelSupermarket, with MoneySavingExpert performing 
particularly well. Within MoneySuperMarket, revenue in all our 
lines of business grew during the year as customers used our 
services to help them meet their financial needs.
In September, the three-year deferred consideration period in 
connection with the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert 
concluded. We paid deferred consideration in November of 
£20.6m out of a total of up to £27.0m, reflecting the strong 
performance of that business during the three-year period.  
As we previously announced, Martin Lewis remains with 
MoneySavingExpert in a new position of Executive Chairman  
to help it continue to grow and develop.
We continue to maintain a strong financial position with good cash 
generation. Cash generated from operations during the year was 
£96.9m. After paying the deferred consideration of £20.6m in 
connection with the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert, the Group 
ended the year with net cash of £16.7m. 
Dividend
Our continued confidence in the underlying strength and 
growth prospects of our business is reflected in our progressive 
and sustainable dividend policy.
Having reviewed the cash required by the business and the 
performance of the Group, the Company paid an interim 
dividend of 2.55p (2014: 2.31p) per ordinary share on 11 
September 2015. The interim dividend represented an increase 
of 10% on the interim dividend paid in 2014.
During the second half of the year, the business continued to 
grow and generate cash. As a result, the Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 6.6p (2014: 5.69p) per ordinary share, 
representing an increase of 16% on the final dividend in 2014.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting, this will bring the total dividend for the year to 9.15p 
(2014: 8.00p) per ordinary share and will be paid on 6 May 2016 
to all shareholders on the register on 1 April 2016.
Our strategic progress
Our three leading brands give us significant strength, breadth and 
diversity, generating growth and increasing the predictability of 
the business. All of our brands are consistent in their ambition to 
‘help every household make the most of their money’.
During the year, we have continued with our significant capital 
investment programme which commenced in 2014 to improve 
our technology, our data capabilities and our customer journeys. 
The investment allows for greater flexibility and scalability across 
our different channels and any future channels. Customers will 
Our brands give us significant 
strength, breadth and diversity,  
and are consistent in their ambition  
to ‘help every household make the 
most of their money’. Each of our 
three brands generated growth  
whilst we continued with the  
three-year investment in our 
technology programme. 
Adjusted operating profit
£100.1m +15%
Total dividend
9.15p
 
+14% Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3
General
Financial Statements
Strategic Report  
Governance
find it easier to use our websites and will benefit from greater 
personalisation of our services, especially important for our 
customers on smartphones. This investment will help us to 
support additional growth from the business and will further 
differentiate our brands from those of our competitors. 
All of our motor and home insurance customers in 
MoneySuperMarket and all of our travel customers in 
TravelSupermarket now use the new technology platform when 
they visit us. In 2016 we will migrate a number of other channels 
to this new technology platform.
In parallel, we continued to invest significantly in our marketing 
strategy, including the strengthening of our digital marketing 
capability and the continuation of our ‘You’re So 
MoneySuperMarket’ advertising campaign, both of which 
helped to attract visitors to the Group’s websites. 
While no acquisitions were made in 2015, the Group continues to 
review acquisition opportunities against a disciplined set of return 
and risk appetite metrics.
During 2015, our services have attracted greater attention from 
our regulators, in part due to the growing habit exhibited by 
consumers to use price comparison services. In particular, Ofgem 
launched an investigation into price comparison websites in the 
first half of 2015 and the Competition and Markets Authority have 
indicated they will undertake a review of price comparison 
websites during 2016. During 2015 we have sought to enhance our 
relationships with key regulators and we share the vision of 
regulators generally to make products more accessible and 
understandable to consumers.
Governance
Following the formation of the Risk Committee in 2014, the 
identification and management of risk has continued to be a focus 
for us during the year including the approval of a Group-wide Risk 
Appetite Framework and a detailed assessment of the risks 
associated with the Group’s capital investment programme. 
Further information on risk management and the key risk focus 
areas during the year are set out on pages 27 to 31.
During the year, we continued to enhance our approach to 
corporate governance, building on the areas for improvement 
identified during our external Board evaluation in 2014. This 
included the creation of an annual forward-looking agenda for the 
Board and each of the Committees which enables the Board and 
the Committees to better plan their activities over the course of 
each year. As a result, we have built a detailed review of one of the 
Group’s key strategic priorities into each Board agenda; included 
greater focus in Nomination Committee meetings on succession 
planning for the Board and executive management; and enhanced 
the formal Committee evaluation process to enable the 
Committees to appraise more effectively their performance and to 
identify any further areas for improvement. 
More information on our approach to governance is set out in 
my Introduction to Governance, the Corporate Governance 
Report and the reports of each of the Committees on pages 36 
to 71. These reports describe how we have applied the main 
principles of the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) during 2015 and reports upon our compliance 
with the Code’s provisions.
The Board
We have a strong and balanced Board, with diversity of 
experience and technical expertise with which to support the 
strategic and operational direction of the Group. 
During the year Robin Klein, Michael Wemms and Graham Donoghue  
stepped down as Directors. I would like to thank each of them for 
their significant contributions to the Board. In particular I would like 
to thank Graham Donoghue for his commitment and dedication in 
helping to develop the new Group technology platform.
Most significantly, on 31 December, Simon Nixon, our founder and 
first CEO, stepped down from the Board. Simon founded the 
business in 1999 and led the business through its IPO in 2007. Simon 
has been an inspirational figure with his relentless focus on product 
development and customer service. We will miss his insights and 
wish him well as he pursues a number of new opportunities.
Robin Freestone joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director in August 2015 and brings experience of leading global and 
digital businesses to our Group, helping us to shape our strategy and 
future direction as we become a larger and more complex business. 
Robin will succeed Rob Rowley as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
on conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
In 2014, the Board made a commitment to achieving a minimum 
representation of 25% of women on the Board by 2016. I am pleased 
to say we have met this objective and will continue to focus on 
broadening and strengthening the diversity of the Board and the 
Group in the years to come.
Our employees
Our results this year once again reflect the dedication and quality 
of all our employees across the Group. We rely on their skills, 
experience, competence and hard work to drive our business 
forward. Their passion, innovation and commitment to delivering 
the best for our customers are key assets for the Group and critical 
to its future success. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all of our employees for their significant contribution to the 
performance of the Group.
Outlook
We will continue to invest in technology in line with our three–year 
programme enabling customers to find it easier to use our 
websites, benefit from greater personalisation and save more 
money. Whilst we remain alert to competitor activity, particularly 
in the insurance market, we are confident about our prospects in 
2016. Our brands give us strength, breadth and diversity and are 
consistent in their ambition to ‘help every household make the 
most of their money’, enabling us to continue to build our business 
for the future.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown
Chairman
29 February 2016
