 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 16
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STATEMENT
CONFIDENCE IN 
OUR STRATEGY 
REMAINS STRONG
JOHN MORGAN / CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Overview
This year has been a period of honing the business in preparation for 
protable and sustained growth. We have seen great momentum 
across the Group and the business is now leaner and more efcient, 
and ready to respond to the forecast improvement in national 
construction output. 
Performance
Revenue for the year was up 7% on the prior year at £2,385m, 
driven by strong revenue growth in Fit Out of 20%. This was 
supported by growth in Construction & Infrastructure, up 5% and in 
the strategically important mixed-tenure regeneration activities in 
Affordable Housing, with revenue up 29%. Adjusted operating prot 
of £38.8m was up 34% on the prior year, with adjusted operating 
margin up 30bps to 1.6% (2014: 1.3%). 
Fit Out delivered a very strong prot and margin performance, 
beneting from the high level of general t out activity and the more 
attractive tendering opportunities and terms available in its market. 
Its operating margin of 4.0% on record revenue of £607m enabled 
Fit Out to report an increase in operating prot, up 60% to £24.0m 
(2014: £15.0m). Urban Regeneration made signicant progress with 
many of its regeneration developments and delivered an operating 
prot of £12.9m (2014: £10.0m) and a return on average capital 
employed
1
 of 15%. Affordable Housing also made good progress 
focusing on its regeneration mixed-tenure housing portfolio which 
will support future sales going into 2016. The Affordable Housing 
division grew its operating prot by 43% up to £8.6m (2014: £6.0m) 
due to the continued improvement in the performance of its Property 
Services activities, which reduced its operating loss to £1.0m from  
a £3.5m loss in the prior year. 
Construction & Infrastructure showed improvement in the second 
half of the year, delivering a full year operating prot of £3.8m  
(2014: £3.5m) compared to prot of £0.3m at the half year. Overall 
performance was impacted by lower returns from its construction 
activities in London and the South and its lower margin older 
construction contracts, however signicant progress has been  
made in completing these contracts in the second half of the year. 
These are being replaced in the construction order book with 
generally higher quality work.
1 As dened in the business review for Urban Regeneration.  GOVERNANCE
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 17
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Exceptional operating items of £46.9m have been charged in the 
year relating to the impairment of trade and other receivables on  
two old construction contracts identied in 2013, both of which  
were transferred as part of the acquisition of the design and project 
services division of Amec in 2007. At the half year an impairment  
of £39.4m was made against these items (see page 28 for further 
information). 
Order book and regeneration and development pipeline
The Group’s committed order book
2
 at 31 December 2015 was 
£2,826m, an increase of 6% compared to the prior year end. 
Importantly, the general quality of the current order book reects the 
more favourable procurement conditions across most markets 
served. The divisional split is shown below.
 
 2015  
£m
2014  
£m
%  
change
Construction & Infrastructure 1,595 1,537 +4%
Fit Out 341 241 +41%
Affordable Housing 703 673 +4%
Urban Regeneration 218 197 +11%
Investments 17 19 -11%
Inter-divisional orders (48) (9)
Total 2,826 2,658 +6%
2 Committed order book comprises the secured order book and framework order book. The 
secured order book represents the Group’s share of future revenue that will be derived from 
signed contracts or letters of intent. The framework order book represents the Group’s 
expected share of revenue from the frameworks on which the Group has been appointed. 
This excludes prospects where conrmation has been received as preferred bidder only, 
with no formal contract or letter of intent in place.
The regeneration and development pipeline
3
 was £3,159m, a small 
decrease of 2% on the previous year end as schemes have been 
developed and sold. The Group continues to pursue regeneration 
opportunities which will contribute to the pipeline in 2016 and 
beyond. The divisional spilt is shown below:
 
 2015  
£m
2014 
 £m
%  
change
Affordable Housing 782 770 +2%
Urban Regeneration 2,181 2,215 -2%
Investments 196 242 -19%
Total 3,159 3,227 -2%
3 Regeneration and development pipeline represents the Group’s share of the gross 
development value of secured schemes including the development value of open market 
housing schemes. 
Operating environment
The operating environment for construction has improved with a 
marked shift away from xed-price contracts to more attractive 
procurement routes. This is reected in the Group’s order book with 
89% by value derived through negotiated/framework/two-stage 
bidding procurement processes. Robust contract selectivity and 
rigorous risk management have also contributed to higher levels of 
quality work and margin improvement. Challenges persist with 
margins remaining under pressure due to cost ination, and supply 
chain and skill shortages. These conditions are most acute in 
London and the South. We have therefore reduced our exposure to 
commercial construction in these areas, limiting activity to work 
secured through framework agreements and opportunities to 
collaborate with sister divisions. 
 
Health, safety and wellbeing
Keeping our staff, subcontractors and visitors safe is paramount and  
we were saddened by the death of one of our employees on site  
this year. The incident was thoroughly investigated both internally 
and by enforcing authorities, and it was concluded that the activity  
had been carried out in accordance with current legislation and  
industry practice. As part of our continuous improvement regime,  
we conducted a thorough review of our processes and procedures 
and made some improvements. Our core safety policies remain 
under constant review. 
Unfortunately we have seen an increase in the Group’s Accident 
Incident Rate and the number of RIDDOR incidents during the year 
which is disappointing for the Group. These incidents haven’t shown 
any particular trend in cause or type other than challenges faced by 
the industry as a whole, as a consequence of the upturn in labour 
demand. That said, we continue to focus on site safety with ongoing 
targeted safety training and awareness. We have seen an 
improvement in our health and safety performance at the end of 
2015 and beginning of 2016 as new employees and supply chain 
partners respond to the increased volumes of work and become 
fully embedded in our health and safety practices and procedures. 
In 2016 as well as continuing our drive to reduce the number of 
safety incidents across the Group, we will review any actions that  
we need to take to further protect the health and wellbeing of our 
employees.
See the responsible business review on pages 50 to 56 and the 
health, safety and environment committee’s report on page 69 for 
further information.
Condence in long-term strategy
Our condence in the Group’s UK-focused strategy remains strong. 
We have celebrated signicant contract wins in our chosen markets 
together with new framework positions and high levels of work from 
existing frameworks. We have grown our investment in regeneration 
opportunities that provide superior margins. With the housing 
market set to remain high on the political agenda for a signicant 
number of years ahead, we have focused our investment primarily in 
residential–led opportunities which will lead to signicant returns in 
the medium term. 
The Group has made good progress against each of its ve strategic 
priorities as outlined in the following strategic progress section. 
Looking to the future
Looking ahead to 2016, the positive momentum across the Group is 
expected to continue. A strong level of performance from Fit Out is 
anticipated, together with further strategic progress in Urban 
Regeneration and prot growth in Affordable Housing, driven by its 
mixed-tenure regeneration activities. With a further steady recovery 
in the performance of Construction & Infrastructure also expected, 
the Group is in a strong position to deliver on its expectations. Acr56851959744256-27807.pdf   1   21/03/2016   11:38
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 18
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS
Construction & Infrastructure 
Whilst the Infrastructure business has performed reasonably consistently 
across the year, delivery pressures and cost escalations in a number of older 
contracts in the Construction activities in London and the South impacted 
overall protability and margins. The division has seen a progressively 
improved nancial performance over the second half of 2015. 
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
Signicant strategic wins include the delivery 
of the £300m-£500m West section of the 
Thames Tideway Tunnel in joint venture and 
a position on the four-year £4bn Southern 
Construction Framework which offers the 
division the opportunity to bid with several 
other contractors for projects ranging in 
value from £1m upwards. The framework 
governs the procurement of a full spectrum 
of new build and refurbishment schemes  
in education, health and community, 
including libraries, civic ofce development 
programmes for police and re authorities, 
and leisure and sports facilities.
Develop and retain talented people 
The division has launched its ‘Academy’, 
created to offer training and development 
opportunities to all employees. A career 
mentoring programme has also been 
introduced to provide guidance and support 
to employees in the early stages of their 
career. Professional development is actively 
encouraged with over 400 employees 
pursuing registration with professional 
institutions and 115 full-time degree students 
receiving sponsorship, providing a pipeline 
of graduate recruits through to 2019. 
Disciplined use of capital
Following a review of lessons learnt 
regarding a number of older construction 
projects, the division has adopted a 
more stringent approach to bidding 
which has helped improve the quality of 
earnings. Additionally, tight management 
of overheads, cash and working capital, 
as well as working in joint venture on 
complex long-term infrastructure projects, 
minimises capital risk and ensures 
funds are available for investment. 
Maximise efciency of resources
The division has developed a more 
streamlined approach to supply chain 
management through developing stronger 
relationships with a smaller number of 
preferred suppliers and subcontractors  
who are aligned with the division’s Perfect 
Delivery approach. Working in closer 
collaboration will help drive efciencies and 
mitigate the impact of upward pressure on 
supply chain costs and availability. 
Pursuing innovation
The division has played a leading role in 
developing a pioneering 3D site-induction 
system for major highways projects, and 
together with its joint venture partner is 
the rst Highways England contractor to 
use this type of advanced technology. 
The system provides realistic, virtual 
access to complex sites, enabling a 
comprehensive understanding of the 
safety risks in advance. In addition, 
the division has invested in developing 
various new systems that will signicantly 
improve business processes and efciency 
such as tools for monitoring future work 
pipeline and project management.
 > Maintain focus on enhancing position
in chosen growth markets.
 > Secure long-term projects that offer
higher margins through frameworks,
joint ventures and strategic alliances.
 > Increase opportunities to work with
other Group divisions.
 > Build enduring relationships with
clients, partners and the supply chain
to create innovative and cost-
effective solutions and deliver quality
projects with the highest levels of
safety.
 > Maintain quality of order book. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
In 2015, Construction & Infrastructure 
delivered Britain’s greenest, and one  
of Europe’s most sustainable, buildings.  
The Enterprise Centre features a number 
of ‘world-rsts’, such as the use of 
prefabricated straw thatch panel  
cassettes, and is set to achieve the  
rigorous Passivhaus and BREEAM 
Outstanding accreditations. 
Local skills and indigenous materials were 
used and the division embraced pioneering 
technologies and techniques. The result is  
a revolutionary building with an embodied 
carbon calculation equating to a quarter  
of the lifetime emissions of a conventionally 
constructed building. 
THE ENTERPRISE 
CENTRE,
UNIVERSITY OF 
EAST ANGLIA
RESOURCES
MAXIMISE EFFICIENCY OF 
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 19 MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 20
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Fit Out
The division has performed well, resulting in increased revenue and a 
signicant uplift in operating prot. This performance has contributed to the 
Group’s ability to implement its strategy of investing cash generated from 
construction activity in long-term regeneration opportunities.
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
The division has gained market share this 
year by focusing on its target markets 
including commercial ofces, higher 
education, retail banking and working 
through a number of strategic framework 
agreements. Contract wins include a 
130,000 sq ft t out for ING Bank, 
Broadgate Estates’ new 28,000 sq ft 
headquarters, a new workspace for 
disability charity, Livability, and a project for 
environmental services company SUEZ.
Develop and retain talented people
During 2015 Fit Out has continued to focus 
on developing talent within the business and 
planning for the future. 
The division’s two-day ‘Exceptional 
Performance’ course provided classroom-
style training aimed at 350 staff, whilst 
e-learning has been embraced through the
development of 16 online training modules
and the launch of an interactive learning
management system.
The division has rolled out a performance 
and development planning process, 
launched its Foundation Programme for 
school-leavers, graduates and entry-level 
employees, and signicantly strengthened 
its succession planning. 
Disciplined use of capital 
The division tightly controls its cash balance 
through stringent management of overheads 
and cash management. 
Maximise efciency of resources 
The division has invested in people and 
technology so that it can operate and deliver 
projects as efciently as possible. The 
Overbury and Morgan Lovell Southern 
teams have moved to one shared location, 
enabling them to share resources, cross-sell 
and strengthen their service delivery. 
Pursuing innovation
The division has developed a mobile 
application based on its in-house project 
management and information sharing tool 
ProjectPLUS
™
, aimed at clients and project 
delivery teams. The ProjectPLUS
™
 
application allows instant access to 
real-time information, resulting in higher 
levels of collaboration, cost savings and 
safer, shorter delivery programmes.  
Fit Out also created, tested and launched  
a bespoke snagging tool SnagPLUS
™
 –  
a t out sector rst. Project delivery  
aside, innovation of this kind signicantly 
contributes to the overall client and  
end user experience. 
 > Win work in all chosen markets.
 > Drive customer experience as a
means of differentiation.
 > Further improve quality of earnings.
 > Continue investment in enabling
technology to improve efciency.
 > Invest in training and development to
support succession planning. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Fit Out’s appointment to undertake the 
high-specication t out for the racing 
headquarters of Land Rover BAR  
(Ben Ainsley Racing), the British challenger 
for the 35th America’s Cup, further 
reinforced its reputation as the UK’s  
t out contractor of choice. 
The division demonstrated its leading 
expertise and reliability, successfully 
delivering the project within a very public  
and tight deadline whilst setting new 
benchmarks for sustainability and 
construction innovation. The works included 
a bespoke athletes’ training gym and 
medical centre, a kitchen, an open-plan 
ofce, and a boardroom and meeting suites, 
as well as a 50,000 sq ft workshop for the 
construction and storage of racing yachts.
LAND ROVER BAR
PORTSMOUTH
TARGETED 
MARKETS
WIN IN 
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Acr5685195974425631202.pdf   1   21/03/2016   11:39
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 22
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Affordable Housing
Affordable Housing has made good progress, including an 
improved performance from its Property Services business.  
New opportunities have been secured for higher margin 
mixed-tenure work and the level of activity across large-scale 
regeneration programmes has been maintained. 
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
Affordable Housing’s successes include 
being appointed to the second phase of the 
£28m Loftus Garden Village scheme in 
Newport, Cardiff, a £6.5m project to deliver 
a further 72 homes. The rst phase of 58 
homes was successfully delivered in 2015. 
The division’s Property Services business 
also secured £67m of work that included 
projects for Metropolitan Housing Trust and 
an innovative asset management service to 
King Street Housing Society (see page 35). 
Develop and retain talented people
Affordable Housing provides a mix of  
formal and on-site training. On average, 
each member of staff has received three 
days of training. 64 employees have 
been sponsored to undergo leadership 
training though the Institute of Leadership 
and Management and 16 have secured 
places on the division’s graduate training 
programme. Following the success of the 
new-build Site Manager Development 
Programme, a similar programme is 
now under development for assistant 
site managers working on refurbishment 
projects. The self-delivery model  
within the Property Services business 
long-term maintenance contracts remains 
committed to ensuring 5% of employees 
are in apprenticeship schemes. 
Disciplined use of capital 
The division targets regeneration 
opportunities through framework 
positions on the London Development 
Panel and the Homes and Communities 
Agency’s Delivery Partner Panel 2. Both 
panels release public sector land with 
deferred land payment, award contracts 
using more efcient procurement 
processes and create opportunities to 
improve returns on capital employed. 
Maximise efciency of resources 
Affordable Housing has invested in a 
focused suite of house types made up 
of standardised components. As well as 
improving the quality and efciency of the 
build, this standardised approach enables 
economies to be made and the cost 
savings shared with the house purchaser. 
Pursuing innovation
The division has developed a ground-
breaking asset management model and 
underpinning IT system that allow clients 
to make long-term nancial plans for 
their response maintenance programmes 
with greater condence and insight. 
The combined services offering focuses 
on holistic services and contracts.
 > Grow regeneration pipeline through
long-term partnerships with local
authorities and housing associations
and through collaboration with
sister divisions.
 > Progress schemes within existing
regeneration programmes.
 > Accelerate completion of
residential schemes.
 > Develop a property maintenance
offer with Investments and Urban
Regeneration for Group-developed
buildings.
Acr568519597442562134.pdf   1   21/03/2016   11:36 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Through its ve-year development 
management agreement with the Borough 
Council of King’s Lynn and West Norfolk, 
Affordable Housing is committed to 
providing a range of job and training 
opportunities as part of its Employment  
& Skills Plan, including creating 16 new 
apprenticeships, as well as safeguarding  
26 existing apprenticeship places. 
The division will also deliver a range of short 
training opportunities for 75 people and a 
programme of visits for local school, college 
and university students. 90% of the 
workforce employed on the project will be 
from the local Norfolk community.
KING’S LYNN 
MIXED-TENURE
REGENERATION,
NORFOLK
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 23
TALENTED 
PEOPLE
DEVELOP AND RETAIN MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 24
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Urban Regeneration
Urban Regeneration has continued to deliver good growth  
and strong prots through its focused long-term investment 
in its regeneration and development pipeline. 
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
During the year the division secured 
‘preferred developer’ status on six 
new projects, further strengthening 
its £2,181m development pipeline.
Develop and retain talented people
Following staff consultation, a more 
effective streamlined appraisal process 
has been adopted with an updated 
reward strategy for any of the division’s 
70 employees who exceed business 
objectives. Key individuals are receiving 
one-to-one coaching to support the 
business’s succession plan and the division 
is funding and providing paid study and 
exam leave for several employees to secure 
work-related professional qualications. 
Disciplined use of capital
The division has secured a number 
of development agreements with 
landowners. Typically such agreements 
secure land for development in return 
for the division funding initial planning 
and infrastructure costs with land drawn 
down for development on a phased basis, 
optimising the use of Group capital. 
Maximise efciency of resources
Urban Regeneration’s trusted reputation 
enables it to secure funding for a signicant 
number of projects. In 2016 four major 
investments deals, totalling over £72m, 
with high-prole national property funds 
enabled construction of a customer delivery 
hub on the division’s agship Logic Leeds 
warehouse and industrial park and a total 
of 245 new homes in three buildings for 
the private rented sector within its New 
Bailey, Canning Town and Lewisham 
Gateway regeneration schemes.
Pursuing innovation
Financial innovation is a crucial element of 
the division’s expertise. The business stands 
at the forefront of innovative funding models 
and has invested in state-of-the-art nancial 
modelling software to enhance decision-
making across its complex development 
programmes. A typically complex scheme 
is Lewisham Gateway, where the £85m 
residential-led rst phase has attracted 
funding from three different sources. 
 > Identify opportunities to enhance
forward development pipeline.
 > Maintain the momentum of project
delivery in line with critical path
programmes.
 > Increase residential sales.
 > Secure high-quality occupiers for
commercial schemes. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
Urban Regeneration’s unique approach  
has overcome signicant challenges on  
the £230m Lewisham Gateway scheme. 
The site was originally dominated by a large 
and unpopular roundabout which cut off  
the town centre from the local DLR and 
railway stations. Through intensive 
collaboration with numerous stakeholders, 
the division has enabled major changes to 
the highway and public transport networks 
as well as opening up two rivers from below 
ground to become a town centre feature. 
As a result, around 3.3 hectares of 
previously undevelopable land have been 
released, creating space for a vibrant 
residential-led mixed development with  
a riverside park, shop-lined pedestrian 
walkways and improved access to public 
transport. 2015 has seen construction 
progress on three new residential buildings. 
LEWISHAM
GATEWAY,
LONDON
PURSUING
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 25
INNOVATION MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 26
STRATEGIC REPORT / CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED
Investments
Investments has successfully delivered on its mandate to create  
quality construction opportunities for other Group divisions. It has  
handed over schemes within its long-term regeneration partnerships  
and created a new joint venture to help NHS Trusts address  
ongoing nancial challenges.
2015 Progress Priorities for 2016
Win in targeted markets
Highlights include starting work on the 
North West PF2 Priority Schools Building 
Programme which is being delivered by 
the Construction & Infrastructure division, 
creating a new strategic healthcare 
partnership resulting in a 10-year 
agreement with Burton Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust and the development 
of a new Extra Care healthcare offer. The 
division has also successfully extended 
programmes of work within its long-
term regeneration joint ventures. 
Develop and retain talented people
The division has implemented enhanced 
training and development programmes to 
ensure its people can succeed and deliver  
a market-leading service. In addition, it has 
relocated to new premises, providing a  
fresh and attractive environment that 
encourages communication, creativity  
and team working. 
Disciplined use of capital
The division uses Group capital to  
progress certain projects to a point when  
it can leverage its relationships with leading 
nancial institutions and forward sell 
schemes when conditions are favourable  
to do so. 
Maximise efciency of resources
Investments creates opportunities for other 
Group divisions to secure work on their 
frameworks. The division’s reputation as a 
partner has led to more opportunities this 
year for sister divisions to negotiate terms on 
projects rather than securing work on a 
more competitive basis. 
Pursuing innovation
Innovation lies at the heart of Investments. 
The division identies pioneering routes  
to market as demonstrated this year  
by creating a new joint venture to 
successfully enter the strategic estate 
partnership market in healthcare  
(see page 39 for further information). 
Investments applies its creative approach 
across every market and sector it operates 
in, engaging with all stakeholders across 
the asset life cycle to identify solutions 
that deliver real and lasting benets. 
 > Focus on creating prime long-term 
construction opportunities for sister 
divisions. 
 > Progress projects within development 
pipeline.
 > Develop new offers for existing 
markets. 
 > Take offer to new regions across  
the country. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
MORGAN SINDALL GROUP PLC 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 27
Working in partnership with South 
Northampton Council, Investments is 
sensitively reinvigorating and regenerating 
the historic Moat Lane area of Towcester 
town centre in six phases through a 
strategic development agreement. In 
accordance with the agreement, after the 
successful delivery of a new civic centre, an 
interest in five council-owned sites was 
transferred to the division to enable the 
remaining five phases to be completed. 
These include the construction of residential 
properties and further commercial buildings 
by Affordable Housing and Construction & 
Infrastructure and will provide a significant 
return on Group investment.
MOAT LANE
REGENERATION,
TOWCESTER
CAPITAL
DISCIPLINED USE OF
