 6
NAHL Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Steve Halbert
Chairman
The business has seen considerable 
change during 2015 and delivered 
excellent results.
Summary of financial performance
NAHL Group plc has performed well during 2015, 
with revenue up 15.7% to £50.7m (2014: £43.8m), 
delivering an increase in profit before tax of 
15.6% to £14.0m (2014: £12.1m), after share 
based payments, amortisation of intangible 
assets acquired on business combination and 
one-off items of £1.5m (2014: £0.9m). Earnings 
per share increased 24.3% to 25.6p (2014: 20.6p).
During the year, the Group acquired Fitzalan  
and Best Value Conveyancing (BVC), which 
provide marketing services in the residential 
conveyancing sector, and Bush which  
provides specialist critical care services in  
the catastrophic and serious injury market. 
Aggregate consideration for these acquisitions 
was £28.1m, net of cash acquired, financed  
by the issue of new shares for £14.3m, net of 
expenses, and the balance in cash from the 
Group’s cash resources and bank facilities.
These acquisitions contributed £5.6m of revenue 
in the year and profit before tax of £1.5m. 
Balance sheet and final dividend
NAH, which provides marketing services to the  
PI sector, and Fitzalan are both highly cash 
generative. The cash flow for Bush, which is at a 
slightly lower cash conversion, did not materially 
impact our cash generation ratios in the year, 
with operating cash generation of £15.2m, which 
represents a 97.4% conversion of operating 
profit into cash (2014: 97.6%).
Our balance sheet remains strong and at the 
year-end, we had adjusted net debt
1
 of £8.3m 
(2014: net cash £1.2m).
The Board proposes, subject to approval of 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to 
be held on 25 May 2016, a final dividend of 12.5p 
per share payable on 31 May 2016 to ordinary 
shareholders registered on 22 April 2016. 
Together with our interim dividend already paid 
of 6.25p per share, this increases the total 
proposed distributions for the year by 19.4% to 
18.75p per share (2014: 15.7p).
Chairman’s Statement
1 Net adjusted debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and other payables relating to a discontinued pre-LASPO product Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
7
NAHL Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Division review: Personal Injury
NAH has performed well in 2015, delivering profit before tax of 
£15.6m from revenue of £45.1m, representing increases of 
8.8% and 2.8% respectively. These results reflect a forecast 
reduction in revenue in the second half, offset by an increase in 
gross margins. A combination of market factors in the second 
half led us to tightly manage our volumes to ensure we were 
able to deliver cost effective, high quality enquiries for our  
PLFs, a strategy which we continue to pursue, as we work  
with our key, larger PLFs to develop more significant but  
fewer PLF relationships. 
In November 2015, the Chancellor, in his Autumn Statement, 
announced, inter alia, proposals to restrict consumers’ 
eligibility for compensation for low value whiplash injury, along 
with plans to consult on transferring PI claims of up to £5,000 
to the small claims court. The proposals will be subject to a 
detailed period of consultation and we anticipate there will be 
some short-term market volatility whilst the regulatory position 
is clarified. We have seen a number of law firms decide to 
withdraw from the PI market as a consequence.
We do not expect the consumer’s requirement to be able to 
access justice to alter significantly, although we do anticipate 
that marketing expenditure, both TV and digital, will reduce in 
the sector, which is likely to result in some reduction in overall 
case volumes in 2016.
The division’s results in 2015 reflect a strong trading 
performance, with enquiry quality rather than volume taking 
precedence, with a consequential reduction in product income. 
This in turn has helped to drive an increase in gross profit 
margins and we continue to deliver a rich mix of enquiries 
focused on higher value categories to our PLFs.
Division review: Conveyancing
Since the acquisition of Fitzalan in February 2015, our 
conveyancing lead generation division has performed well. It 
has achieved our profit expectations, contributing profit before 
tax of £0.8m from revenue of £3.5m in the year. During the year 
we added a small bolt on acquisition, BVC, and in January 2016 
completed the acquisition of Searches UK for a cash 
consideration of up to £2.1m.
The establishment of our residential conveyancing division fits 
well with our existing strategy of applying marketing, digital and 
call handling expertise to complementary markets within the 
broader CLS sector. 
Division review: Critical Care
Acquired in October 2015, Bush is one of the UK’s leading 
providers of expert witness, immediate needs assessment and 
case management services, providing services to injured 
people, solicitors and insurance companies. Bush specialises in 
catastrophic and serious injury cases and provides the Group 
with access to another aligned CLS market.
Since the acquisition, Bush has continued to perform well and 
in 2015 delivered £0.6m profit before tax on revenue of £2.1m.
Looking ahead
PI continues to account for the largest part of our business, by 
revenue and profit, and is well placed to respond to changing 
market conditions. Our strong brand recognition and digital 
expertise help reinforce our position as market leader.
The forthcoming consultation on small claims following the 
Chancellor’s Autumn Statement of November 2015 is leading to 
some market uncertainty, which will manifest itself in reduced 
demand levels from PLFs for PI cases in the short term. We are 
cautious about the short-term prospects at NAH and plan to 
generate reduced volumes of enquiries in 2016 compared with 
2015. We expect this will lead to a contraction in NAH profits  
in 2016.
Looking to 2017, we believe that some regulatory change in PI is 
inevitable and we expect to see a restructuring of how smaller 
claims are handled. This will create new business opportunities 
for NAH.
During 2015, we have invested in and successfully diversified 
our service offerings in the wider CLS market, and our 
Conveyancing and Critical Care divisions have performed well 
and provide exciting growth opportunities.
The anticipated continued strong performance of Fitzalan and 
Bush combined with the expected performance in our core 
NAH business should deliver earnings growth in the current 
financial year for the Group overall, albeit marginally below 
market expectations.
The business has seen considerable change during 2015 and 
delivered excellent results. I would like to thank our employees 
for their continued support and contribution to our success.
We look forward to the challenges and opportunities ahead. 
Steve Halbert
Chairman
21 March 2016
