 10
NAHL Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Review
2015 saw continued growth 
and we are pleased to report  
a strong set of results. 
Overview
The Group’s performance has been achieved 
through both organic growth within our core PI 
division and the positive contributions from our 
earnings-enhancing acquisitions.
The period under review saw the Group develop 
into a broader, more diversified business 
through the acquisitions of Fitzalan, a specialist 
in Conveyancing services, and Bush, one of the 
UK’s leading Critical Care businesses providing 
specialist services to the catastrophic and 
serious injury market. These acquisitions are in 
line with our strategic vision of being the UK’s 
leading marketing and services provider in our 
chosen legal markets.
Our continued commitment to providing 
consumers with access to the very best in legal 
and support services remains at the heart of 
our business, and our continuous focus on 
highly ethical marketing practices supports our 
market leadership position.
Russell Atkinson
Chief Executive Officer Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
11
NAHL Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Results 
The Group traded well during 2015 and we are pleased to 
have delivered continuing underlying operating profit
1
 growth 
of 22.9% from turnover of £50.7m, up 15.7%.
NAH, the Group’s marketing services provider to the PI market, 
adapted to market conditions by focusing on higher quality, 
lower volume enquiries during the second half of the year. 
Whilst, as expected, this reduced the division’s second half 
revenue, this was offset by an increase in gross profit margins. 
Fitzalan, the Group’s Conveyancing division, has integrated 
well since its acquisition in February 2015 and continues to 
make good progress. Bush, acquired in October 2015, has 
made a solid start in its first 10 weeks of trading as part of 
the Group and performed in line with plan. Since the period 
end the Group announced the acquisition of Searches UK, a 
leading search provider, which forms part of our 
Conveyancing segment and provides opportunities for 
further growth through an enhanced service offering.
The Group continued to be highly cash generative during the 
year and the Board remains committed to a progressive 
dividend policy.
Market overview
The Group operates in the large and highly fragmented CLS 
market and focuses on the largest of the CLS segments, PI, 
along with Critical Care and Conveyancing. In each of the 
sectors we operate in, all of which are highly fragmented 
markets, we hold a strong position but retain relatively small 
market shares.
The PI market has approximately one million claims per 
annum and remains relatively static in terms of market size. 
The largest proportion of claims, over 76%, remain in the 
area of RTAs (25% of enquiries), but NAH has continued its 
strategy of growing share across all claim types and retaining 
strong market shares in the higher value non-RTA areas.
The Chancellor’s Autumn Statement contained a number of 
proposed changes impacting PI claims, which will be subject 
to a period of consultation and review. We expect there to be 
a period of uncertainty as the Government’s plans are 
clarified. This will lead to some law firms reviewing their 
investments in the PI sector and it is likely that some demand 
reduction will result. NAH will be more cautious in our 
approach to enquiry generation. In the longer term, there will 
continue to be a large number of people in the UK who 
require access to justice and will require the services of a 
company such as NAH to assist them.
As the market leader today with a predominant focus away 
from lower value RTA claims, NAH is well positioned to 
remain at the forefront of the market change. We intend to 
continue to work with stronger, more process focused PLFs 
on higher value cases. For lower value cases, we will explore 
with vigour the new business opportunities that will emerge, 
once we have more certainty on the regulatory backdrop.
Turning to Bush and the catastrophic injury market, we 
estimate that this is valued at approximately £85m
2
 
(2014/15), and growing. We have a 10% market share and are 
actively pursuing a number of growth initiatives. 
In Conveyancing, there are approximately 2.0m residential 
conveyancing transactions in the UK annually. Fitzalan has 
taken a leading position in the small but growing online 
marketing led conveyancing area, which is estimated to 
constitute less than 6% of the total market.
Brand
The Group’s brands are a core asset of the business.  
NAH remains the leading brand in PI and continues to have 
market-leading metrics for trust, search and click-through 
rates
3
. In addition we have become more active on social 
media and have continued to progress our Ethical Marketing 
Charter with almost 60 firms, including some of our direct 
competitors, signing up to this important initiative.
At Fitzalan, our main internet brands, Homeward Legal, 
Fridays Move, In-Deed and Surveyor Local have been 
supplemented by the purchase of BVC, adding incremental 
volume to the business.
The Bush brand has, for over 30 years, been recognised for 
clinical independence and quality and we will continue to 
reinforce this reputation.
   
These brands and internet properties remain a core aspect 
of what we do and how we attract consumers so we retain a 
sharp focus on ensuring that they mature and develop.
1  Underlying operating profit excludes share based payments, 
amortisation of intangible assets acquired on business combination 
and one-off items
2 NAHL Group plc commissioned research – December 2015
3 Brand Tracking Data – December 2015 12
NAHL Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Customers
The Group now serves a broader market of law firms. 
Historically, we have been focused on the claimant PI sector 
but, as a result of our acquisition activity, we now serve firms 
on both the claimant and defendant sides as well as a range  
of conveyancers and surveyors. This expansion and 
diversification of our customer base opens further 
opportunities to support our markets with a wider  
product range.
The NAH panel has continued to evolve during the year as 
we continue to focus on strategic relationships with key 
volume players in PI. This evolution is expected to continue 
as PLFs adapt to the current uncertainties of anticipated 
regulatory changes.
Bush is recognised for its clinical independence and will 
continue to serve both claimant and defendant solicitors  
with high quality services designed around the needs of the 
individual. With a customer base of over 650 solicitors, the 
Company has the opportunity for further growth driven by a 
more focused approach to business development.
Fitzalan has over 150 PLFs and over 80 surveyors,  
enabling us to ensure unrivalled national coverage for  
our consumers.
Products
Within NAH, medical product revenues were impacted  
by the introduction of the Medco process in April 2015. 
However, we were able to introduce a new After the Event 
(ATE) product, which was well received and resulted in 
growth on the previous year in this category. Product usage 
is an area that we continue to focus on and recognise that 
reduced enquiry volumes will have an impact. 
Within Fitzalan we have been developing a number of 
initiatives including the Solicitors Pre Auction Report 
(SPAR) and lease extensions. Such products broaden our 
appeal and support growth. The addition of Searches UK  
in January 2016 also adds an important product set that 
complements and enhances the offering that Fitzalan  
can make to its partners.
Bush already offers a mature and market-leading service 
proposition and we will continue to review opportunities to 
develop these services by expanding into adjacent markets 
and lower value cases. Our focus on supporting the team 
with enhanced business development and clinical resource 
will enable Bush to continue to grow.
Operations
The Group now has four offices across the UK including  
two contact centres from our sites in Kettering and London.
The focus at NAH continues to be ensuring that we pass  
on only cases with real merit and that the quality of those 
cases remains of the highest order. During the second half 
of 2015 we have been focusing on a smaller number of 
higher quality enquiries to enhance our profitability.
Following the acquisition of Fitzalan we invested in new 
offices in Chancery Lane, London, to ensure that we have 
capacity for growth and an excellent working environment. 
The acquisition of Searches UK means we now have an 
operating hub in Sussex covering all activity in support  
of our searches business.
Our Daventry office is the operational centre of Bush and  
is staffed by experienced personnel who support our 
customers and field-based consultants and experts.
People
Our people are what make us who we are and form the 
cornerstone of our success as a business. During the course 
of the year we have grown employee numbers, as a result of 
our acquisitions. This expansion enables us to offer better 
career progression to employees within our teams. I am 
delighted that we have already been able to make two 
important appointments within the Group from  
existing teams.
In early 2015 we were also awarded the Investors in  
People (IiP) standard and have continued our Employee 
Development Programme, seeing a number of participants 
move into broader roles as a result of this initiative.
We have also adopted the Paul Bush Foundation as our 
chosen charity for 2016 which enhances understanding 
across the Group of the great work we do for seriously  
injured individuals. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
13
NAHL Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Outlook
The Group has developed considerably through acquisitions 
during the last 12 months.
Whilst our PI division represents the largest proportion  
of our revenue and profit, we have been able to make four 
acquisitions that enhance our offering and move us into 
different segments of the CLS market that we serve; giving  
us firmer foundations and a broader range of opportunities 
as we build earnings in aligned business areas.
We will continue, as a result of our excellent cash generation, 
to review strategic growth opportunities as they arise. 
NAH has performed well. 2016 will be a year of consolidation 
until the exact nature of the regulatory changes are clarified. 
However, with our marketing expertise and market-leading 
brand strength, we remain optimistic about the medium-term 
opportunities that will undoubtedly arise.
Fitzalan is well positioned to take a greater share of a  
market that is ready for new players with innovative ideas, 
and we anticipate an exciting year ahead for this business.
Bush has an established leadership position and has significant 
ability to develop its market share and also expand into adjacent 
markets with a simplified service offering.
As a more diverse Group, I look forward to meeting the 
challenges and opportunities that 2016 will provide.
Russell Atkinson
Chief Executive Officer
21 March 2016
