 Group Chief Executive’s review
Delivering growth  
in all divisions
Dean Finch
Group Chief Executive
25 February 2016
“ Our strategy of consistently focusing on operational 
excellence to drive cash and returns, as well as opening 
up new growth opportunities, continues to deliver.”
Introduction
National Express had a very successful year. 
Revenue, profits and margins have increased 
in every division on a constant currency 
basis. We continue to generate a strong 
and sustainable cash flow, which underpins 
a 10% increase in our proposed full year 
dividend and helps us to invest for further 
growth. Indeed, we started operations in 
two new markets, Germany and Bahrain, 
during 2015 and made a number of targeted 
acquisitions in North America and Spain 
in line with our growth strategy. 
I believe these results demonstrate that 
our strategy of consistently focusing on 
operational excellence to drive cash and 
returns, as well as opening up new growth 
opportunities, continues to deliver. National 
Express has a uniquely diversified portfolio of 
industry-leading businesses which, through 
careful management, have provided growing 
returns for shareholders and generated new 
expansion opportunities. I believe that by 
maintaining this management focus on 
consistently delivering our strategy we will 
continue to drive returns and open new 
growth opportunities. Before I expand in 
more detail on this, I would like to outline the 
highlights from our results during the year.
Highlights from the year
My first priority as Chief Executive is safety. It 
is one of our core values and is the first issue 
I discuss on my weekly call with Managing 
Directors, at each Divisional Board meeting 
consistently for our customers the services 
they want, at attractive prices. Across the 
Group we carried over 2% more passengers 
than in 2014, helping to increase Group 
revenue by 3.8% on a constant currency 
basis. Group profit before tax increased by 
25.2% on a normalised basis and by over 
87% on a statutory basis. We have again 
driven improved returns with Group ROCE 
up 100 basis points to 1 1.7% and a strong 
and sustainable free cash flow of £1 1 1 million, 
beating our target of £100 million. This strong 
performance allows the Board to propose an 
increase in the full year dividend to 1 1.33p, an 
increase of 10% and funded within our 
robust policy of two times earnings cover. 
With c2c and German Rail securing our 
long-term future in rail, the Board announced 
a new policy at 2015’s half year results, to 
include rail profits in the dividend calculation.
UK Coach’s innovative digital marketing 
approach is being complemented with new 
partnership deals to both deliver our services 
more effectively to existing customers and 
reach new markets. This has been 
augmented by further contract wins, 
especially in the second half of the year. In 
the core coach business we carried nearly 
2% more passengers in 2015 compared 
with 2014 and increased revenue across the 
division as a whole by 2.2% to £281.2 million. 
With a relentless attention to costs and 
efficiency, UK Coach has delivered a 15.4% 
increase in profit and a margin improvement 
of 130 basis points to 1 1.5%.
In UK Bus the emphasis on partnership 
is working, with, for example, our record 
investment in new vehicles during 2015 
complemented by local authority investment 
at crucial pinch points. This is helping to drive 
strong passenger growth on these new 
Platinum routes. Alongside Centro we have 
helped lead the industry with the launch of the 
multi-operator, multi-modal Swift smartcard, 
which is also available as Pay As You Go. 
Together innovations and investment like this 
and at the PLC Board. As long as I am Chief 
Executive of National Express, it will remain 
our priority. I am therefore pleased we have 
made further progress in improving on our 
key safety measure: the Fatalities and 
Weighted Injuries (‘FWI’) index. Since 201 1 
we have reduced the harm caused by our 
business on this measure by 56%. We have 
also won important safety awards during the 
year, including UK Coach being awarded the 
prestigious British Safety Council ‘Sword 
of Honour’ and our North American School 
Bus division being upgraded to the highest 
possible rating by the Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration, part of the US 
Department of Transportation.
Financially, the Group has performed well 
during 2015. With all divisions helping to 
drive increased revenues, profits and 
margins, I believe the whole business is 
benefiting from a focus on operational 
excellence that requires us to deliver 
have helped secure our highest ever customer 
satisfaction scores in the independent Transport 
Focus survey. This is being reflected in our 
financial results with revenue increasing by 
nearly 2% to £286.4 million and profits growing 
by just over 10% to £37 .5 million. Our margin 
has increased by 100 basis points to 13. 1%.
Our Rail division has delivered an operating 
profit of £0.6 million compared with a £10. 1 
million loss in 2014. These figures reflect the 
fact bidding costs are included in our divisional 
8 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015   
The launch of a new coach service 
between Cardiff and Bristol Airport 
has proved popular with customers 
results and are no longer taken as exceptional 
items. In 2015 we also absorbed over a 
three-fold increase in the premium paid to 
the Government for the c2c service. Targeted, 
digital marketing, combined with the best 
punctuality in Britain, has helped revenues 
from c2c increase by nearly 10% to 
£166.0 million, with overall passenger 
numbers growing by 5.3% and off-peak 
journeys increasing by 7 .6%. We introduced 
the largest timetable change in a generation 
during December to meet both the significant 
passenger growth we have been experiencing 
and the improved central London connections 
specified in the Department for Transport’s 
franchise agreement. We have made 
amendments to address some passenger 
concerns and are working hard to secure 
extra trains to provide additional capacity.
In North America we continue to see the 
benefits of our focus on improving contract 
pricing, including through our ‘up or out’ 
strategy. During the year we secured price 
increases of 5.3% in those contracts that 
went to market, which averaged out at a 
2.8% increase across our whole portfolio. 
We have again maintained very high levels 
of customer retention. Our ‘up or out’ pricing 
strategy means we exit unprofitable contracts 
unless we secure a sufficient price increase 
to ensure profitability; with those tenders 
excluded, we retained 99% of all contracts 
re-bid during 2015; and if those tenders are 
included, we still retained 96% of contracts 
across our whole portfolio. Combined with 
further cost savings, including head office 
efficiencies, these have helped drive an 
increase in profit on a constant currency 
basis of 6. 1% to $102.2 million despite rising 
pressure on driver wages, with our margin 
now at 9.8% (9.6% in 2014). Transit has also 
delivered significant growth in the year, with 
three new contracts secured, an extension 
to an existing contract and one bolt-on 
acquisition helping to increase annualised 
revenues by 45%.
In ALSA, our Spanish and Moroccan division, 
revenue grew by 3.6%, profit increased by 
5.8% and a record number of passenger 
journeys were recorded in the year. This 
growth has been driven in particular by the 
continued successful roll out of our revenue 
management system (‘RMS’) and our 
ongoing growth in Morocco. RMS has 
now been extended to over 200 flows that 
compete directly with the discounted RENFE 
rail services, with revenues up 2% and 
passengers up 3% on these routes. Morocco 
continues its strong growth, with revenues up 
nearly 14% as we expanded our services in 
Tangier and started new operations in our 
fourth city, Khouribga. Following recent press 
reports on the Portuguese Government’s 
proposed cancellation of our Porto bus 
contract – amongst others awarded by the 
previous government – we have just received 
official notification. We will analyse the 
arguments used to overturn a previously 
awarded contract and then consider our 
next steps.
We also successfully launched new Bahraini 
bus and German rail services during the year. 
Our entry into these new markets was 
secured, at least in part, because of our 
reputation for excellence in our existing 
operations. We believe both of these markets 
provide good growth potential and will help 
strengthen our international reputation.
Strategy
Our consistent strategy of focusing on 
operational excellence has demonstrably 
improved returns for shareholders and helps 
position us for further growth opportunities.
Delivering operational excellence
For a number of years I have made the 
case that our success as a business is 
dependent upon us securing and 
maintaining a reputation for operational 
excellence. For our existing customers this 
means consistently delivering the services 
that they want at competitive prices they 
can afford. For new customers it means 
demonstrating to them that we will provide to 
them the service they want in a convenient 
way while offering good value for money. 
This has guided our operating philosophy for 
a number of years now, and I believe these 
results demonstrate the benefits of this 
approach. We carried more passengers in 
2015 than in 2014, with both ALSA and c2c 
carrying record passenger numbers in the 
year. Our customer satisfaction ratings again 
are often market-leading: UK Coach is for the 
third year running the most trusted ground 
transportation brand in the UK Institute of 
Customer Service’s annual survey; UK Bus 
has secured its highest ever customer 
satisfaction scores in the independent 
Transport Focus survey; c2c again has the 
highest customer satisfaction scores for 
reliability and punctuality in London and 
South East franchises in the National Rail 
Passenger Survey; in our North American 
School Bus business 92% of customers say 
they would recommend us on the basis of 
our service, safety and value; and ALSA has 
achieved its best score in five years in the 
annual independent Customer Service Index 
survey conducted by GFK.
This philosophy will also drive growth in our 
existing businesses as we focus on delivering 
continuously improving, ever more punctual 
and value for money services. This means 
identifying opportunities to capture new 
markets, such as UK Coach’s new Bristol 
Airport services launched in March 2015. 
It also means reforming our operations to 
ensure they meet customer aspirations and 
challenges, such as launching the largest 
timetable change in a generation on c2c 
to meet the significant passenger growth 
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
9 www.nationalexpressgroup.com Group Chief Executive’s review continued
  
We have expanded 
our operations in 
Morocco with the 
launch of services 
in Khouribga
  
The new Platinum 
buses launched 
during the year in 
the West Midlands 
offer more leg room  
and free WiFi
“ Our progress in embedding excellence across 
the business has been recognised by leading 
accreditation bodies.”
we have been experiencing and making 
significant progress in the ‘digital’ arena.
For some time we have been looking to 
harness new technology and approaches 
to enhance our customer service and 
operate more efficiently. Our targeted digital 
marketing has already delivered results in UK 
Coach: 88% of emails sent to our customer 
database are now targeted, compared with 
69% in 2014 and 18% in 2013. We have 
already embedded a similar approach in c2c, 
with an increase in off-peak travel a particular 
benefit from this approach, and we are now 
rolling it out to UK Bus and Spain. We 
have already pioneered industry-leading 
innovations, such as the personal 
performance promise supported by 
Automatic Delay Repay and personalised 
performance reports, which c2c is 
launching this year. 
Under a new Group Digital Officer, all 
divisions are auditing their existing digital 
strategies and setting out how they can 
make further, significant progress in the 
coming years. I believe these new 
technologies and approaches provide the 
opportunity to truly bring the customer into 
the heart of our business. They help create 
personalised and tailored relationships with 
our customers, helping to drive innovation 
and service efficiency so we can better 
target customer needs. 
We have also been using new technology to 
improve our safety performance and believe 
there is the opportunity for substantial cost 
savings to be gained through this. Initial pilots 
of ‘DriveCam’ in UK Coach and North 
American School Bus have been very 
positive, already delivering in-year cost 
savings and providing detailed performance 
reports for each driver, allowing tailored 
training programmes to improve driving and 
safety performance. This technology will now 
be rolled out more widely in UK Coach and 
North America and also to UK Bus and 
ALSA. We are also looking to introduce 
‘collision avoidance’ technology that 
could deliver further savings and safety 
improvements. I believe this is an area of 
real opportunity for our business, delivering 
both further safety improvements and 
meaningful cost reduction.
Embracing technology and approaches such 
as those outlined above demonstrates how 
we continue to invest where it makes a real 
difference to our services. In 2015 we 
invested a record £34 million in UK Bus, 
delivering 176 new buses, one third of which 
were our state-of-the-art Platinum buses. 
These buses are seeing strong passenger 
growth and customer satisfaction scores of 
94%. We have also invested in an RMS in 
Spain to effectively counter the competitive 
threat from heavily discounted rail services 
and are launching an enhanced version in UK 
Coach during the year. c2c has also been 
investing in leading-edge customer initiatives 
such as improved apps and WiFi provision, 
first-to-last staffing at all stations and the 
ground-breaking Automatic Delay Repay 
scheme for season ticket holders. This will 
provide compensation for every minute of 
delay beyond two minutes and, as the 
Secretary of State for Transport confirmed 
last year, has set a new standard for the rail 
industry as a whole to follow.
But, equally, these new technologies and 
approaches are part of our continued 
determination to operate as cost efficiently 
as possible. Operating efficiently helps us 
to maintain our prices as competitive as we 
can. We have continued to target 1% cost 
efficiency savings, with £19 million delivered 
in 2015. Over the last three years we have 
taken nearly £80 million out of our cost 
base through efficiency savings and are 
determined to continue to secure 
further savings in the future. 
Our progress in embedding excellence 
across the business has been recognised 
by leading accreditation bodies. c2c has 
had its five-star rating under the European 
Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) 
re-confirmed, with a higher mark this year 
than its last score. UK Bus, UK Coach and 
ALSA have all achieved four-star ratings in 
their initial assessments and are determined 
to emulate c2c’s success. Our North 
American Division has also secured a Bronze 
Award in its first assessment from the Illinois 
Performance Excellence Center (ILPEx). 
2015 also saw us win a record number 
of industry awards.
10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 As I have already mentioned, safety is 
my priority and our Driving Out Harm 
programme, introduced in 2010, continues 
to deliver progress in this crucial area. We 
have achieved a reduction in our key safety 
measure – the FWI index. Since 201 1 we 
have reduced harm on this measure by 56% 
across our business. 2015’s FWI is 12.242, 
compared with 12.307 in 2014 and this 
progress comes despite us carrying more 
passengers and running more services in 
2015. 
It is through this approach to operational 
excellence, combining service quality, 
customer satisfaction, cost efficiency, 
targeted investment and innovation and 
a fundamental focus on safety, that we 
believe we will deliver our vision of earning 
our customers’ lifetime loyalty. As I have 
repeatedly said, passengers are more likely 
to use our services above other choices 
because they are receiving a good service 
at a good price. Equally, contracting 
authorities or businesses are less likely 
to retender services and are more 
likely to award us new contracts if 
we consistently deliver excellence.
I am particularly pleased that our reputation 
is helping to retain significant contracts and 
services. UK Bus has led the industry and 
secured a five year ‘Bus Alliance’ in the West 
Midlands, building on our award-winning 
partnership approach. ALSA successfully 
renewed one and obtained the highest score, 
pending award, in the other for the only two 
national franchises in our portfolio to come 
up for renewal during 2015. ALSA also 
extended the Bilbao Urban Transport 
contract by two years. I have already 
mentioned our industry-leading contract 
retention rate in North American School Bus, 
with a 99% success rate in those contracts 
we wanted to retain.
Superior cash and returns
The success of this strategy this year is also 
evident in our strong cash and returns.
We have again beaten our target for the year, 
delivering £1 1 1 million of free cash flow, £1 1 
million ahead of our initial projection. Maintaining 
a strong and secure cash flow in the coming 
years is important for the dividends we pay 
shareholders and to fund future growth. 
Our net debt has increased by £81 million in 
2015 to £7 46 million, with a gearing ratio of 
2.45 times EBITDA. This increase in net debt 
has been driven by £106 million spent on 
acquisitions and growth capital expenditure 
projects, all of which are accretive within the 
first 12 months and will continue to drive 
further profit growth. As we made clear 
last year, a period of debt reduction and a 
successful programme to embed a strong 
and sustainable cash flow within the 
business provided a firm financial platform, 
allowing us to increase investment to 
capitalise on emerging growth opportunities.
Group ROCE has again increased, up 100 
basis points to 1 1.7%, demonstrating that 
we continue to deploy capital in a disciplined 
manner, targeting enhanced returns. Our 
Group operating margin has also increased 
again this year, up 1 10 basis points to 10. 1%. 
We continue to target both margin and 
ROCE improvement in the coming years.
As well as funding investment and growth, 
our strong performance is also delivering 
improved returns for shareholders. Our 
Group EPS has increased by nearly 24% to 
23.4 pence and our strong and sustainable 
cash flow means the Board is able to 
recommend to shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting a final dividend of 7 .645 
pence per Ordinary share (2014: 6.95p) 
giving a total dividend for the year of 1 1.33 
pence (2014: 10.3p). This represents an 
increase of 10% over 2014 and reflects our 
new policy announced during the year of 
having two times total Group earnings cover. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting to be held on 
1 1 May 2016, the final dividend will be 
paid on 20 May 2016 to Ordinary 
shareholders on the register of members 
at the close of business on 29 April 2016.
Generating new growth opportunities
Last year we identified North America as the 
principal opportunity for increased investment 
to deliver strong growth over the medium 
term. Our experience in the last 12 months – 
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
11 www.nationalexpressgroup.com 11.33p
proposed total dividend
£111.0m
free cash flow
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
  
Our principal focus 
for acquisitions is 
the North American 
School Bus market
including an encouraging pricing environment, 
with over 5% price increases secured on 
renewed contracts during the year – has 
confirmed this view and we will continue to 
target North America for further investment. 
In a highly fragmented market, with over 
1,300 private school bus businesses, we 
believe there is significant scope for the 
identification and integration of operations 
that are adjacent to our more than 220 sites 
across North America. In the last 12 months 
we have made bolt-on acquisitions of this 
type, delivering management synergies and 
improved purchasing power, alongside 
operational improvements. Some of these 
acquisitions have also opened new markets 
to us – for example shuttle services – 
providing credentials in growing sectors. 
From the integration of our significant 
Petermann acquisition four years ago, to 
these recent examples, our management 
team in North America has unparalleled 
experience and expertise in this area. We 
also believe our Transit business provides a 
good opportunity for further growth, building 
on the 45% increase in annualised revenues 
secured this year. 
During the year we also started new 
services in two new markets. Our Bahraini 
bus services began in February and our 
German rail services in December. Both 
began successfully and demonstrate that 
operational excellence and working in 
partnership work internationally. These 
contracts are strengthening our international 
reputation and opening further opportunities 
in local markets. For example, our new 
services in Bahrain are opening other 
contract opportunities within the Middle 
East where we believe the prevailing fiscal 
climate is encouraging authorities to 
increasingly look at public transport as a 
cost effective investment. Across the region, 
we are actively involved in four bid processes 
with annualised revenues of around $220 
million. We believe there is a good pipeline of 
We are also currently working on a bid for 
Manchester Metrolink, which is due to be 
submitted in May, with the contract starting 
in  July 2017 .
Outlook
During 2016 we expect all divisions to 
continue performing well, with good profit 
and cash performance secured as our 
strategy of operational excellence delivers 
the services our customers want. With 
both businesses firmly established, we 
expect our new services in Bahrain and 
Germany to support this as well. We will 
continue to target margin and ROCE 
improvement and are again not anticipating 
any exceptional items during the year. Our 
cash target for the year is again £100 million, 
reflecting our determination to maintain a 
strong and sustainable free cash flow to 
fund targeted investment in further growth 
and improving shareholder returns.
The principal focus for acquisitions will 
remain the North American school bus 
market, where our ongoing strong 
performance and management expertise, 
the encouraging trends in pricing and nature 
of the market mean we are well placed to 
deliver further growth. Investment must 
always meet our strict financial and strategic 
criteria and we are already encouraged by 
the performance of our acquisitions made 
during 2015.
In Spain, we are still preparing for the 
concession renewal process to begin later 
this year. However, the delay in forming a new 
government coupled with the ongoing legal 
challenges in Spain may serve to delay 
elements of the renewal process further. 
While we would expect some pressure on 
margins at renewal, as is normal, any impact 
from the larger concessions would not be felt 
until 2017 if they are indeed re-let this year. 
We expect the impact on our Spanish EBIT 
to be up to €2-3 million in 2017 . Our 
industry-leading team and the ongoing 
further opportunities here and are monitoring 
potential competitions in six countries in the 
Middle East. 
In German rail we commenced our Rhine-
Münster Express (‘RME’) services in 
December 2015. We are pleased with the 
first few months of trading and are targeting 
a break-even result a full year ahead of our 
original plan. Projected revenues for the 
existing RME services are expected to be 
around €72 million in 2016, with later years 
benefiting from the operation of the €1 billion 
Rhine-Ruhr Express services from 2018, 
and subject to a further legal challenge the 
€1.4 billion Nuremberg S-Bahn contract. 
This latest appeal by Deutsche Bahn comes 
despite the local authority believing it 
had successfully demonstrated that the 
conditions set in the previous appeal had 
been met. We will continue to provide any 
necessary information and hope the new 
appeal is concluded quickly so we can 
provide the people of Nuremberg with the 
quality of service they deserve. The German 
rail market remains very attractive, worth 
€6 billion of revenues per year overall. In 
2016 we have three active bids, themselves 
worth a total of €3 billion in revenue over 
the lives of the contracts. 
We submitted a bid in December 2015 for 
the East Anglia rail franchise. The outcome of 
the franchise competition, which is for up to 
ten years, is due to be announced in July, 
with the contract due to start in October 
2016. Our approach to UK Rail remains 
focused on delivering bids that combine 
improved services to customers and 
competitive prices to the Government while, 
crucially, delivering an appropriate return to 
shareholders. We will continue to bid 
selectively. While we continue to monitor the 
UK rail market for any opportunities that meet 
our strict criteria, our current focus is on 
securing smaller, lower risk German rail 
franchises where the risk is acceptable and 
meets our capital-light investment criteria. 
12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 An integrated approach
Value creation depends on a wide range of tangible and intangible factors. Our focused 
and integrated approach to sustainable value creation across the short, medium and long 
term delivers benefits for shareholders, employees and the communities in which we 
operate.
Our vision
Our Vision defines our Group, setting the overall objective, which is to earn the lifetime 
loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public 
transport services which offer excellent value. 
Our business model and markets
The Group’s markets are shaped by material trends in macro-economic, socio-economic, 
regulatory, competition, human capital and a changing technology landscape; these 
trends present both risks to value creation and significant opportunities and possibilities for 
organisational innovation and new competitive advantage. Our business model is agile and 
responsive, operating in the context of our markets, leveraging our operational experience 
and know-how to provide best in class transport services which, in turn, creates long-term 
sustainable value. 
 Read more p14
Our strategy
Through our strategies of delivering operational excellence, generating superior cash 
returns and creating new business opportunities we are able to deliver strong, 
sustainable results and improve shareholder returns. 
  Delivering operational excellence 
  Generating superior cash and returns 
  Creating new business opportunities
 Read more p16
Key performance indicators
We employ a range of both financial and non-financial Key performance indicators 
(‘KPIs’), which are used to measure the progress of our business as a whole and our 
strategic direction in particular. 
 Read more p26
Resources and relationships
We recognise that we cannot run our business in isolation; our business model and 
strategy are dependent upon a range of factors which are critical to value creation and 
long-term success.
 Read more p18
Risk management 
The Group has a well established governance structure with internal control and risk 
management systems. The risk management process provides a framework to identify, 
assess and manage risks to the Group’s overall strategy and the contribution of its divisions.
 Read more p28
Governance 
Governance provides a framework within which the Board sets its values and delivers 
long-term success for the Company and its investors, whilst recognising its duties 
towards the wider stakeholder community.
 Read more p50
refinement of our competitive strengths such 
as our RMS, means we are determined to 
retain our market share and compete 
effectively.
We believe there are further growth 
opportunities within Morocco, the Middle 
East and German rail, and we will remain 
active in all these markets. With these 
markets well established, the Group is 
now considering entering other new 
markets. Our Business Development team 
continues to examine opportunities for 
further diversification where through 
targeted bids we can provide the authorities 
with a winning combination of high quality 
and price leadership.
In January 2016, the Group entered into 
new bank facilities totalling £450 million. This 
comprised a £350 million bridging facility, in 
anticipation of the refinancing of the Group’s 
existing £350 million bond which matures in 
January 2017 , and a £100 million general 
corporate purpose facility. These new 
facilities provide us with flexibility to the timing 
of the bond refinancing (until January 2019) 
and we would anticipate a significant 
reduction in our future interest charge of 
around £5 million at such time as we choose 
to refinance.
We anticipate significant savings of around 
£30 million from lower fuel costs in 2018 
compared with 2015, where currently 42% 
of the Group’s annual fuel requirement for 
that year is hedged at an average price of 
31 pence. This compares with an average 
price of 42 pence in 2016. 
We will also – of course – target further 
improvements in our safety results and 
look to further harness the opportunity and 
efficiency provided by new technology in 
delivering better safety performance and 
lower associated costs. We believe there is 
a real opportunity for progress here. New 
technology will continue to allow us to 
develop an increasingly personalised 
relationship with customers, generating 
demand and securing loyalty. But it will not 
deflect us from a continued focus on price 
leadership – including rolling out an ever 
more sophisticated RMS further – consistent 
attention on cost efficiency and maintaining 
our reputation as an excellent operator. 
Our uniquely diversified portfolio of 
companies has provided both a stability 
of earnings and new sources of growth 
in recent years. We will continue to pursue 
targeted bolt-on acquisitions and selective 
new bidding opportunities that build on our 
recent successes in Bahrain, Germany and 
Spain. We believe that by continuing to apply 
our model of operational excellence in these 
markets, we will deliver the services our 
customers value, create new sources of 
growth and thereby continue to generate 
good returns for our shareholders.
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL  
INFORMATION
13 www.nationalexpressgroup.com
