 Chairman’s letter
Governance 
highlights 
• As a Board, we aspire to apply 
high standards of governance to 
our conduct around the Board 
table and we commit to ensure 
that these standards, values and 
behaviours are applied consistently 
by the Executive team and cascaded 
throughout the Group.
• During the year, we have continued 
to refresh the Board to ensure that, 
as the Group evolves, we have 
Directors with the right and 
appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and 
relevant knowledge in order to 
deliver our strategy and fulfil our 
duties as Directors.
• In line with Code recommendations, 
the Board recognises and values 
the importance of maintaining 
healthy and open communications 
with our shareholders to ensure 
mutual understanding of the 
Group’s strategy, objectives, 
governance and performance.
Operational excellence is 
driving our success
Sir John Armitt CBE
Chairman 
25 February 2016
Dear shareholder, 
I am delighted that National Express has 
again delivered a strong set of results in 
2015. The focus on operational excellence, 
across the Board, from Dean and 
throughout the business is helping us 
to increase revenues, profit and margin, 
drive cash and returns to shareholders 
and generate new growth opportunities.
New markets
During the year we commenced operations in 
two new markets: Bahraini bus and German 
rail. I cannot recall a time when an established 
transport company like ours began significant 
new operations in two foreign markets in the 
same year. It is testament to the management 
capabilities we have in place at the senior, 
Group level and in local teams to have 
achieved such a feat.
As we have repeatedly said, our ability 
to generate growth in new markets is 
contingent upon us securing and sustaining 
a reputation for operational excellence. 
I believe that successful operations in these 
two new markets will only strengthen these 
credentials further and hope they will also 
help us open other growth opportunities.
Existing businesses
Equally, however, we are focused on 
ensuring we sustain a reputation for 
operational excellence in our existing 
markets. Our customer satisfaction scores, 
contract retention rates and passenger 
growth figures demonstrate that we have 
also made good progress here. Our 
financial results for the year – with revenue, 
profit and margin up in every division – 
show the benefits of this focus.
Dividend
It is because of this performance, with free 
cash flow again beating our target, and our 
confidence on outlook that the Board is 
recommending that the full year dividend 
is increased to 11.33p, representing 10% 
growth for the year as a whole. This 
dividend is paid in line with our policy – 
announced during 2015 – of two times 
Group earnings cover. Subject to approval 
by shareholders, the final dividend will be 
paid on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on 
the register on 29 April 2016.
Board
In this year’s Annual Report and Accounts 
we have included a ‘Governance in practice’ 
section to capture the active role the Board 
play across the business, from meeting 
frontline staff and customers to challenging 
senior management. I believe this is 
welcome additional disclosure which gives 
shareholders and other stakeholders an 
insight into the varied work undertaken 
by the Board and I hope you find it useful 
and interesting.
Following the announcements last year that 
both Sir Andrew Foster and Jackie Hunt 
would be standing down, we made three 
appointments in 2015 to strengthen the 
Board in key areas.
Matthew Crummack brings significant 
experience in digital commerce which 
has become a critical area of activity 
within National Express. Matthew has 
already made a valuable contribution 
and complements the Board with a 
retail focused customer perspective.
Mike McKeon joined the Board during the 
year and as well as becoming a member 
of the Safety & Environment Committee is 
Chair of the Audit Committee. After 
spending 15 years as a Group Finance 
Director with wide-ranging international 
experience, Mike provides expert oversight 
in these crucial areas. 
Dr Ashley Steel was appointed last year 
and took up her position on the Board in 
January 2016. As a former Vice Chairman 
at KPMG, and their Global Chair for its 
transport, leisure and logistics practice, 
she brings a distinguished career in and 
significant track record of the sector.
I look forward to continuing to work with 
Matthew, Mike, Ashley and all the Board 
in 2016.
Sir John Armitt CBE
Chairman
25 February 2016
Strategic Report
 Read more p50
4 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
