 NetPlay TV plc – STRATEGIC REPORT 
 
 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
 
 
 
Overview 
It was another busy year for the Group which saw us achieve strong 
results despite all the regulatory changes. During the year we 
maintained our focus on controlling marketing and operating costs, 
resulting in a lower than industry average Cost per Acquisition 
(“CPA”)**
 
on our core casino business whilst maintaining strong cash 
generation.  
 
To support our growth plans and diversify our revenue streams we 
acquired the trade and assets of Otherside Inc. (“Otherside”), details 
of which can be found below.  
 
Marketing strategy 
In September 2014, we outlined a revised marketing strategy which 
has delivered improved returns through increased cost efficiencies 
and a more targeted marketing spend. This strategy was largely 
focused on working closely with our TV partners to maximize the 
effectiveness of our TV airtime contracts. The result of which is a CPA 
reduction of 20% to £166 (2014: £208) and an increase in average 
revenue per active depositing player of 4% to £327 (2014: £316), on 
our casino-only brands.  
 
TV continues to be the Group’s USP and remains at the core of our 
strategy. Through the continuous evolution of the production, style 
and format of our shows we ensure that NetPlay TV remains at the 
forefront of interactive gaming. This combination of engagement 
through TV with the development of our mobile platforms is driving 
customer acquisition and retention.   
 
Product development 
2015 was focused on operational efficiencies and product 
development; standardising the Content Management System 
(“CMS”) platform for all our casino brands and creating a fully 
responsive site experience for all our customers. In addition, we 
launched over 50 new titles across web and mobile significantly 
bolstering the Group’s content offering.  
 
To support the sportsbook web offering on the Vernons brand, we 
rolled out mobile sportsbook as well as a number of new features 
(including “cash-out”). In addition we launched virtual sports which we 
believe complements the sportsbook product. With our complete 
sports offering in place we will evaluate the performance and how it 
                                                        
**
 CPA is calculated as aggregate marketing expenditure divided by the total number of new depositing players 
††
 The period for the comparison is 1 January to 15 March, being the last practicable date before the 
publication of these financial statements. 
fits within the Group’s wider product strategy. In addition to these 
sportsbook developments, we recently launched a rebranded and 
new fully responsive Vernons bingo website. 
 
We have a strong pipeline of innovation for 2016, which will see us 
deliver a number of new products. This includes our fully responsive 
roulette betting interface, and an extensive range of new content, 
including new side games and enhanced bet features for our very own 
TV roulette product. Our customers will see an evolution of the 
product, style and show format as we look to take full advantage of 
our renewed commercial partner agreements. 
 
Digital marketing business acquisition 
The acquisition in August 2015 of the trade and assets of Otherside, 
a specialist online digital marketing, product development and 
technology company, has provided a complementary and profitable 
revenue stream whilst adding to our capability in driving traffic to 
NetPlay TV's brands. These assets included a proprietary media 
platform, which is best described as a Demand Side Platform (“DSP”). 
This DSP allows our media buyers to manage multiple ad and data 
exchanges, of which we have over 100, through a single interface. 
The DSP allows the team to build campaigns for our partners and 
efficiently manage bids and pricing for the media we are buying.  
 
The B2B offering generates revenue on a CPA, revenue share or 
hybrid basis for a number of companies across a wide range of 
sectors.  
 
The acquisition has proved a valuable addition to the Group and we 
are confident that this offering will go from strength to strength as we 
start to take advantage of a number of additional opportunities, 
including increasing contributions to our B2C business over time. 
 
Results 
We had fully expected our results to be impacted by the regulatory 
changes, however this impact has been significantly mitigated by our 
strategy set out at the end of 2014. This is reflected in our 2015 
performance where we have once again shown the cash generating 
abilities of the business delivering adjusted EBITDA of £2.7m with a 
strong cash conversion to net underlying cashflow of 79%. 
 
Current trading and Outlook 
In 2016, we remain focused on our strategy to deliver growth, both 
organically and through acquisition, and the Board is pleased with the 
performance of both our B2C and B2B businesses for the start of the 
year. The Group has delivered an 18% increase in total net revenue, 
26% increase in new depositing players and 16% increase in active 
depositing players over the same period in 2015
††
.  
 
We continue to evaluate a number of M&A opportunities with a view 
to delivering ongoing growth for the Group, and I believe we remain 
well positioned for 2016 to deliver increased shareholder value in the 
short and long term. Considering the strength of the Group's cash 
position, robust trading performance and positive outlook we are 
confident that we have the right combination of team, products and 
marketing to exploit the opportunities available for our core business 
and we look forward to continuing to drive growth over the coming 
year. 
 
  
 
 
Bjarke Larsen 
Chief Executive Officer 
18 March 2016 
 
3 
