 NetPlay TV plc – STRATEGIC REPORT 
 
 
 
CHARIMAN’S STATMEMENT  
 
 
Dear Shareholder,  
 
This is the first full year of trading since Bjarke Larsen became Chief 
Executive Officer and I want to congratulate Bjarke on leading a highly 
experienced and capable management team through a rapidly 
changing market place. The initiatives implemented at the end of 2014 
to navigate the UK Point of Consumption duty (“POC”) have been 
effective; strategic TV broadcasting relationships have been 
renegotiated and digital marketing capabilities and revenue 
diversification have been successfully strengthened with the 
acquisition of the trade and assets from Otherside Inc. 
The management team has delivered against our stated strategy by 
reinforcing our USP through the contract extensions with ITV* and 
Channel 5 / Viacom † , focusing on operational efficiencies and 
completing synergistic acquisitions to both strengthen capabilities and 
diversify the Group’s revenues. We are confident that the actions 
taken have created a solid foundation from which the core business 
can continue to operate successfully and drive further growth. 
The UK gambling market has undergone significant regulatory change 
over the last 18 months. These changes have had a widespread 
impact on the industry that is evident from the recent mergers of some 
the UK’s largest gaming and gambling operators. These results 
demonstrate how versatile and adaptive our business has been with 
like-for-like (“LFL”) adjusted EBITDA ‡ growing by £1.8m, which 
shows how successful the strategy has been to improve operational 
and marketing efficiencies.  
Financial review 
In line with the trading update issued in January 2016, I am pleased 
to report that the Group delivered net revenue of £26.3m and adjusted 
EBITDA of £2.7m, which is at the top-end of market expectations. The 
Group has no debt, is cash generative and holds a strong balance 
sheet with cash of £13.0m at year end, following the £2.6m cash paid 
in respect of the acquisition of the assets from Otherside Inc. 
 
Dividend 
The business has remained highly cash generative and maintains a 
robust balance sheet to support the future organic growth of the Group 
and any suitable M&A opportunities that arise.  
 
Considering the strength of the Group's cash position, robust trading 
performance and positive outlook, the Board is proposing both an 
increase in the final dividend to 0.34 pence per share (2014: 0.33 
pence per share) and also an additional distribution of £2.0m via a 
special dividend equivalent to 0.68 pence per share.  
This proposed special dividend together with the final dividend and 
the interim dividend (paid in October 2015) brings the total dividend to 
1.24 pence per share. 
 
Employees 
With their continued commitment and talent, our employees around 
the world remain pivotal to NetPlay TV’s success. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank every one of them for their hard work and 
dedication during this challenging year.  
 
Outlook for 2016 
Trading in the first part of 2016 has been strong across both our B2C 
(core online gaming operations) and B2B (digital marketing 
operations) businesses. The Board remains confident that NetPlay TV 
is well positioned, with continued cash generation and a strong 
balance sheet, to take advantage of the organic growth and M&A 
opportunities which lie ahead. This should be particularly evident by 
the fact that the Group is pursuing not just bolt-on opportunities but 
also considering more transformational deals, such as the potential 
acquisition of The Football Pools, which it considered in December 
2015
§
 although ultimately chose not to pursue.  
I am confident that our business is well equipped for the year ahead, 
allowing us to capitalise on the opportunities available and continuing 
to build on the success of the past year. 
 
 
 
Charles Butler 
Chairman 
18 March 2016 
 
                                                        
*
 The Group announced on the 14 January 2016, via the Regulatory News Service (RNS), that it had renewed 
its commercial airtime agreement with ITV until 2019. 
†
 Viacom International Media Networks, a division of Viacom Inc, announced on 10 September 2014 the 
completion of its £450m acquisition of Channel 5 Broadcasting Limited from Northern & Shell Media Group. 
‡
 LFL adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP, company specific measure, and is reconciled in the financial review. 
§
 The Company announced on 11 January 2016, via the Regulatory News Service (RNS), that it had held 
preliminary discussions in relation to the potential purchase of the Football Pools business but after 
consideration chose not to enter into a competitive bid process and therefore terminated discussions.   
2 
