 2 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview
Chairman’s 2015  
report to shareholders 
Dear Shareholder, 
I am delighted to report to shareholders 
on the excellent progress made in the 
past year. 
2015 has been a period of transformation 
and growth for NMC Health Plc as the 
Company launched the initial phase of its 
execution of its updated growth strategy 
which was announced in February 2015. 
Group Revenue increased from US$643.9m 
in 2014 to US$880.9m in 2015. Consolidated 
EBITDA also improved by 46.7% from 
US$102.5m to US$150.3m in the latest 
financial year.
STRATEGY AND ACQUISITIONS
The most significant events for your 
Company during 2015 were the 
announcement of our updated Growth 
Strategy in February 2015, and the 
execution of the initial phase of that 
strategy during the year. The new  
Growth Strategy, to summarise, is to  
put in place, and to grow, an integrated 
multi-vertical and multi-brand healthcare 
network across several geographies.  
The acquisitions which we have made  
in 2015, together with the organic 
expansion referred to below, have 
enabled your Company to make a good 
start in the implementation of this 
strategic growth plan. 
The acquisition of Clinica Eugin in 
Barcelona, Spain and the more recent 
completion of the acquisition of Fakih IVF 
in the UAE announced in February 2016, 
together with our existing Brightpoint 
Royal Women’s Hospital in Abu Dhabi, has 
created a substantial vertical in IVF and 
women’s health care. This vertical is being 
expanded by further selected acquisitions 
and organic development.
The acquisitions of ProVita and Americare, 
which focus on different aspects of  
long term care outside the hospital 
environment, both acute and non-acute, 
have provided your Company with a strong 
base for a second major vertical in an area 
of care which continues to experience a 
significant under-supply in the region. This 
vertical is also being expanded in line with 
your Company`s revised Growth Strategy, 
through selected acquisitions and strong 
organic growth both within the UAE and  
in neighbouring GCC countries including 
notably Saudi Arabia and Qatar. 
The management team and your  
Board have insisted, this year as last, on 
extreme rigour in assessing the numerous 
acquisition proposals which are identified 
each year as having possible merit for 
your Company and only progresses  
those which can be shown to be able  
to make a significant contribution to the 
achievement of your Company`s strategic 
growth plan. I believe that shareholders 
can take comfort from the fact that  
your management team only brings 
opportunities to the Board for review and 
decision where they have very strong  
and robust reasons for believing that an 
investment will create long term value  
for shareholders.
Being positioned alongside our existing 
multi-specialty and general healthcare 
facilities, the new businesses acquired 
have already created the basis to grow 
two significant verticals as a first step 
towards the creation of the integrated 
multi-vertical healthcare Group, which  
is our aim.
The anticipated growth in private healthcare, 
in the UAE and the wider GCC continues to 
be generally favourable.
Making good  
strategic progress BUILDING CAPABILITY
Multi- 
speciality
Licensed beds 
665
With the partial opening of our 250 licensed beds 
super specialty and quartenery care NMC Royal 
Hospital in 2015 and the subsequent opening of
inpatient services with 75 beds operational in March 
2016, we have completed the major component  
of the NMC hub-and-spoke network.
This enhanced multi-specialty healthcare delivery 
network of assets across the UAE has elevated 
NMC’s capacity, geographical presence, service quality 
and offering complexity to further increase NMC’s
future growth prospects.
3 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
ORGANIC EXPANSION
The Group’s initial expansion strategy, 
focused on organic expansion through 
the development and opening of new 
hospitals and clinics in the UAE outlined  
at the time of the Company’s IPO in  
2012, This initial expansion plan is now 
complete and contributing usefully  
to your Company`s results.
During the year, in addition to the  
excellent initial performance achieved 
during the ramp-up phase for both 
Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital  
in Abu Dhabi and DIP General Hospital  
in Dubai which had opened in 2014, we 
partially opened our new 250 licensed  
bed flagship super specialty Hospital,  
NMC Royal Hospital, in the Khalifa City 
suburb of Abu Dhabi within budget. NMC 
Royal Hospital has been a vision of our 
founder and Executive Vice Chairman  
and CEO, Dr B.R. Shetty, for many years 
and its opening is a significant milestone 
for the Group. 
As part of our Group Strategy, and 
alongside our acquisition program, 
management, supported by the Board, 
continue to seek new locations for 
organic growth through the development 
of traditional healthcare facilities in both  
the UAE, and regionally in the GCC. 
“ The Group’s initial expansion strategy, focused on 
organic expansion through the development and 
opening of new hospitals and clinics in the UAE.” 4 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview
GROUP FINANCING AND VIABILITY
Any period of substantial growth and 
capital development needs to be 
progressed against a background of  
a strong financial base. As I reported  
last year, in February 2015 the Company 
announced a new US$825m financing 
facility which was made up of two 
elements, namely a US$350m facility  
to repay existing debt and for general 
corporate purposes, and a US$475m 
facility to facilitate strategic acquisitions. 
This strong financial base enabled the 
Company to restructure existing loans, 
reduce its cost of funds and create 
additional headroom to ensure that  
the Group is conservatively financed. 
RISK
Our Group businesses deal with risk  
every day in operating and in planning 
within their particular business or facility. 
The Board has always considered strategic 
risks in operating our businesses, executing 
our growth strategy and reviewing 
potential acquisitions. In Q4, 2014 the 
management team, supported by PwC, 
implemented a full risk identification 
process with the risks facing the business 
developed through a bottom-up/top-down 
review process which has been, and will be, 
reviewed during each financial year. There 
have been a few changes to the Group’s 
risk profile in the last 12 months including 
specific focus on those risks which are 
inherent as part of an acquisitive strategy 
for growth. A list of the risks facing the 
Group, how these are mitigated and what 
effect the principal risks could have on the 
Group are set out on pages 37 to 39.
The Board has taken a proactive stance  
in considering risk, and the board sees 
this as an essential element in the 
successful development of the Group  
and in creating long term value for  
our shareholders. 
GOVERNANCE/VIABILITY
Your Board has been evolving in size,  
skill sets and cultural diversity since the 
Company’s IPO in 2012. You will have 
noted in previous Annual Reports that the 
Board considered that an appraisal of its 
own performance was not appropriate in 
previous years given its changing nature 
and the continuing development of  
Board processes which were considered 
appropriate as the Group grew in size  
and complexity. 
However, in December 2015 the Board  
did undertake an appraisal process  
by way of a questionnaire completed  
by Board members. This appraisal 
concluded that, in the Board’s view, its 
structure, composition, processes and 
discussions are appropriate for NMC  
at the current time. Of course we will  
now appraise ourselves each year and 
continue to develop as a Board team. 
The other governance related focus for 
the Board and the Company this year  
has been the inclusion of a Viability 
Statement as recommended under  
the 2014 UK Corporate Governance  
Code. The new requirement to make  
a statement in relation to our longer  
term viability is different in nature to the 
traditional consideration of whether we 
can continue to prepare our accounts  
on a Going Concern basis on a forward  
12 month time frame. The Board has 
reviewed the Company’s viability over  
a three year timeframe and our Viability 
Statement is included on page 89. 
DIVIDEND
As a result of the continued good 
performance and financial stability of  
the Company, your Board plans to submit 
a resolution to shareholders at the 2016 
Annual General Meeting authorising 
payment of a cash dividend of 6.2 pence 
per share, an increase of 14.8% compared 
to the 2014 dividend payment as 
shareholders continue to benefit from  
the improved performance of the  
Group. For the fourth year running this  
is approximately 20% of profit after tax, 
within the range which the Board 
indicated at the time of the Company’s 
IPO would be their dividend target. 
BOARD 
2014 saw significant changes in the size 
and structure of the Board. During the  
2015 financial year, however, there were 
no board changes, with the board 
structured with:
• A wider cultural and ethnic mix 
benefitting Board discussions given 
the Company’s listing in the UK and 
operations in the UAE;
• Significant female representation (33%) 
on the Board;
• More than half of its number resident 
in the UAE, the Company’s home 
market; and
• A wide range of skills and experience, 
including more than half of the  
Board having significant operational  
or regulatory experience of healthcare 
services from different parts of the world.
Heather Lawrence has since year end 
decided to step down from the Board 
with her resignation effective on 
12 January 2016. Heather joined the Board 
in March 2012 prior to the Company’s  
IPO and as well as serving on the Audit 
Committee, was instrumental in the 
Board setting up the Clinical Governance 
Committee to provide Board oversight  
of quality and safety in the Group’s 
healthcare division. The Board are very 
grateful for her contribution over the last 
three years and wish her well for the future.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF
The management team was restructured 
with effect from 1 January 2015 when 
Prasanth Manghat was appointed Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer and Suresh 
Krishnamoorthy was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer. Prasanth Manghat has 
been assisting Dr Shetty in both managing 
the Group businesses and in executing the 
next phase of our strategic growth plan. 
Mr Krishnamoorthy has ensured that the 
Group is in a good financial position to be 
able to progress this strategy. The Board  
is delighted with the excellent progress 
that the Executive Directors and Senior 
Management Team have made in growing 
the Group in 2015.
Across the Group, we continue to consider 
the Company’s human capital as vital to 
the success of your Company, particularly 
during this period of significant change 
and growth. We have welcomed new 
businesses and employees to the NMC 
family and both the Board and I would  
like to thank them all, whether new or 
long time employees, for their continued 
commitment, contribution, energy and 
goodwill during this period of change. 
OUTLOOK
Despite some challenging economic 
conditions within some of the markets 
where we operate due largely to the fall  
in the price of oil, the anticipated growth  
in private healthcare, in the UAE and the 
wider GCC continues to be generally 
favourable and your Board continues  
to view the outlook for your Group  
with confidence.
H.J. MARK TOMPKINS
Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman’s 2015  
report to shareholders 
continued
Overview 5 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Group 
Strategic 
Report
In this section:
6 Executive Vice Chairman & CEO review
10 Our business model
12 Our strategy
18 Financial summary and highlights
20 Business overview
24 Financial review
28 Corporate social responsibility
37 Risk management
