 6 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
Executive  
Vice Chairman  
& CEO’s review 
TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR
2015 was a transformative year for  
NMC Health, signalling the approaching 
completion of our capital development 
programme initiated by our listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in 2012, and 
marking the beginning of the next phase 
of our growth. During our forty year 
history of operating in the United Arab 
Emirates, we have achieved countless 
milestones in the development of NMC’s 
healthcare delivery platform. However,  
our rapid expansion both organically  
and through acquisitions, during 2015 
accelerated our growth and widened  
our offering of high quality healthcare 
services in an unprecedented manner to 
the benefit of UAE residents and citizens. 
We have put the key components in 
place to create a strong, inter-connected, 
integrated multi-vertical and multi-brand 
private healthcare network with the 
scalability and flexibility to grow our 
operations in the future. 
COMPLETED INITIAL ORGANIC  
EXPANSION PROGRAMME
Our initial organic expansion programme 
culminated in the partial opening of NMC 
Royal Hospital’s out-patient services in 
2015. This initial opening was followed-up 
with the commencement of in-patient 
services on 7 March 2016 with 75 beds 
operational out of a total licensed capacity 
of 250 beds at this super speciality hospital 
in Khalifa City, Abu Dhabi. The balance of 
the licensed bed capacity at this facility  
is expected to become operational in a 
phased manner over future periods based 
on demand growth. This is our seventh 
and largest integrated speciality hospital 
facility and will act as the central facility  
in our network and be  
a regional referral point for best-in-class 
medical treatment for the UAE’s growing 
population. This hospital completes our 
hub-and-spoke healthcare network in  
the UAE, however, we will continue to 
assess opportunities to complement our 
platform and extend our referral network. 
In total, since its LSE listing, NMC has 
opened three hospitals with a total 
additional capacity of 410 licensed beds 
and two other healthcare centres –  
NMC Royal Hospital, Brightpoint Royal 
Women’s Hospital, DIP General Hospital,  
Al Ain Medical Centre and MBZC Day 
Surgery – marking the largest ever private 
sector capacity expansion program in the 
UAE healthcare market. 
NEW STAGE OF STRATEGIC GROWTH
Supported by an $825 million financing 
facility secured in February 2015, NMC  
has embarked on a new stage of  
strategic growth as it executed five major 
acquisitions during the year to accelerate 
its shift from the capacity focused first 
stage of its strategy (2012-2014) towards 
the new capabilities focused second 
stage (2015-2018).
The acquisitions of Clinica Eugin (86.4%)  
and Fakih IVF (51%) will allow us to establish 
NMC as the premier regional and global 
destination for top-quality fertility services. 
With the acquisitions of ProVita (100%)  
and Americare (90%), we extended our 
operational presence into the long-term 
and home-care segments and established 
NMC as a completely integrated provider  
for long-term patient needs. The expansion 
of our network in Sharjah with six additional 
medical centres and three pharmacies, 
through the acquisition of Dr Sunny 
Healthcare Group (100%), improved our 
We have put the key components in place to create  
a strong, inter-connected, integrated multi-vertical and 
multi-brand private healthcare network with the scalability 
and flexibility to grow our operations in the future. 
Strong performance  
in 2015 7 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
ability to participate in the future growth  
of healthcare in the Emirate which could 
see the adoption of mandatory healthcare 
insurance in the future, following Abu Dhabi 
(2007) and Dubai (2014).
These acquisitions, coupled with NMC’s 
organic initiatives, have allowed the Group 
to establish new strategic verticals within 
the broader healthcare delivery platform 
with specialization-specific capabilities 
and brands:
• Multi-specialty – 665 licensed beds 
(NMC Healthcare & Dr. Sunny)
• Maternity & fertility – 100 licensed beds 
(Brightpoint Royal Women’s Hospital, 
Clinica Eugin and Fakih IVF)
• Long-term & home care – 120 licensed 
beds (ProVita & Americare)
• Operation & management – 205  
beds (Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in UAQ)
1
• Products & consumables – Around 
90,000 Stock Keeping Units (exclusive 
wholesaler of mainly globally 
established and branded healthcare 
products and equipment) 
The updated strategy and its subsequent 
execution to date has meant that NMC’s 
healthcare operations evolved from a 
single multi-specialty platform to include 
additional higher complexity and single 
specialty strategic verticals. In particular, 
this new positioning allows the Company to: 
• Offer higher quality services  
to patients and payors
• Participate in under-supplied market 
segments with higher growth outlook 
and per service value 
• Increase scalability potential in the  
UAE and wider region due to lower 
capex intensity
BUILDING CAPABILITY 
Maternity  
& Fertility
Capacity of over 20,000  
fertility cycles globally
20,000
We are very proud to have helped thousands of 
women to fulfill their dream of becoming a mother. 
And many of them, more than once. Our team of 
specialists have vast experience in the field and are 
passionate about what they do. Yet the journey 
towards motherhood requires more than medical 
expertise. The decision to become a mother  
is a very important one and the emotions  
involved are intense, so our patients need  
the support of an experienced team  
whom they can trust. 8 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report
2-STAGE STRATEGY
Building capacity
Building capability
Delivering a continuum of care
Vision
Today NMC is the leading private sector 
healthcare group in the UAE and one  
of the most advanced and diversified in 
terms of its service offering in the entire 
MENA region (Middle East and North 
Africa). Our Maternity & Fertility vertical 
with its market segment leading assets, 
is now considered to be one of the top 
three fertility services providers globally, 
based on cycles performed annually.  
In the long-term and home care vertical 
we occupy a top regional position and  
are the only provider present along the  
full continuum of care. In Operations & 
Management, NMC was the first local 
operator in the UAE to be awarded a 
contract to manage a government 
hospital. Our distribution division, the 
Products & Consumables vertical, as  
of year-end 2015 possessed more than 
around 90,000 Stock Keeping Units (SKUs) 
and is estimated to be amongst the top 
three wholesalers in the UAE. 
NMC now operates a total of 26 healthcare 
services assets and 15 pharmacies, 
including the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa 
General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain. 
REGIONAL EXPANSION
As outlined in our strategy updates  
during 2015, NMC continues to evaluate 
further expansion in the UAE and the  
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. 
These markets offer attractive 
opportunities with growing populations, 
favourable demographic trends and  
an undersupply of healthcare services. 
We expect to open five new fertility 
centres during 2016, including one centre 
in each of Qatar and Oman.
Meanwhile, we will continue to advance 
our initiatives to establish a regional 
presence in the long-term care segment.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS
In addition to the recent hospital openings 
and acquisitions, we have continued  
to focus on our more mature facilities, 
making upgrades to the existing hospital 
network to achieve an even more 
optimised service delivery and capacity 
utilisation. This has yielded several 
enhancements including a 15% increase  
in bed capacity at each of our pre-IPO 
specialty hospitals in Abu Dhabi, Dubai 
and Al Ain.
As a result, at the end of 2015, the Group’s 
healthcare assets had a total licensed  
bed capacity of 885 beds (excluding the 
205 bed government hospital), an 88% 
increase on the previous year and more 
than 185% compared with the start of 2014.
Our new hospitals were equipped with 
our Hospital Information System (HIS) 
which will increase the operational 
efficiency of our growing network of 
hospitals. We continue to introduce this 
system in a phased approach to ensure 
the introduction is smooth and our 
people receive the training required to 
successfully implement the new system. 
Some of our legacy assets will receive  
the HIS over the next 1-2 years to ensure a 
seamless transition. The implementation 
of the company’s new financial Enterprise 
Resource Planning (ERP) system is behind 
the original schedule on account of 
challenges faced by the group during 
initial testing phase and also due to 
integration of newly acquired assets, 
however implementation of the system  
is now well underway across the Group 
and we expect it to be completed by end 
of Q2 FY2017. 
 
Last year we strengthened the NMC 
management team with the promotion  
of Mr Prasanth Manghat from CFO to 
Deputy CEO and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy 
from Deputy CFO to the position of CFO. 
Mr Manghat and Mr Krishnamoorthy  
have a collective tenure of 27 years of 
experience with NMC and related entities 
and we are confident that together with 
the other members of the management 
team at NMC, we have a leadership team 
capable of executing the growth strategy 
and take our Group into its next phase  
of expansion. 
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE
In total we received 3.2 million patients 
into our facilities, representing 34.3% year 
on year growth. Hospital occupancy 
increased by 216bps to 73.5% demonstrating 
the continually high demand for quality 
services and we enlarged our medical 
specialist teams with the addition of  
214 doctors throughout the year. 
Our healthcare assets continue to 
perform very well and we see positive 
operational and financial results. Of 
particular interest amongst our more 
mature assets is Dubai Speciality Hospital, 
which recorded a 23.5% increase in the 
number of patients and 21% growth  
in revenues year on year – the highest 
growth for the hospital over the last  
five years – as the roll-out of mandatory 
healthcare insurance in Dubai continues 
to gain traction and progress towards 
completion of the phased adoption plan 
by year end 2016. 
Executive  
Vice Chairman  
& CEO’s review 
continued 9 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Governance Overview Strategic Report 
Healthcare
DELIVERING A CONTINUUM OF CARE
Multi-speciality network 
Maternity & Fertility 
Long-term & Home Care 
CORE FUNCTIONS
Financial performance in 2015 for the 
Group was robust with reported revenues 
increasing by 36.8% and EBITDA increasing 
by 46.7% compared with 2014. This was 
supported by strong performance across 
our major assets, positive contribution 
from our newly acquired healthcare 
facilities and a better than expected 
impact from the continued roll-out of 
mandatory medical insurance in the UAE. 
We have a strong capital structure and 
estimate that we could have around 
US$270m available during the year for 
potential growth opportunities derived 
from existing unutilised financing, existing 
cash and cash generated during the year. 
We also continued to methodically 
expand our Distribution division this  
year with new product introductions  
and brands and an increased focus on  
our sales effort. We strengthened the 
division, recruiting an additional 51 sales 
people, bringing the total number of 
employees in this successful team to 
1,948. We also invested in our Distribution 
business transport adding 14 new vehicles  
bringing the total number to 221. Sales of 
pharmaceuticals and laboratory equipment 
increased due to an expanded product 
range and growing demand supported  
by Dubai’s rollout of mandatory health 
insurance. Notably, we signed an agreement 
with Nestle to be the exclusive distributor 
of its infant product range to pharmacies 
in the UAE, increasing our competitive 
edge in the market. The number of SKUs 
increased to around 90,000, an increase  
of 6.8% compared to 2014 and we forecast 
another year of growth in this division as 
demand for products continues to grow. 
OUTLOOK
Rapid expansion, as we have experienced 
this year, always presents its challenges 
and I would like to thank my fellow 
members of the Board of Directors,  
the senior management team and our 
shareholders for their continued support 
and dedication throughout the year.  
Most importantly, I would like to thank  
the employees of NMC and its newly 
acquired local and international healthcare 
assets for their tireless efforts to provide 
the United Arab Emirates’ and the region’s 
growing population with increased access 
domestically to quality healthcare services 
and products, as we have done so for the 
last four decades. 
Our transformation from a small 
pharmacy and clinic over 40 years ago 
into an internationally recognised provider 
of healthcare services could not have 
been possible without the unparalleled 
support of the UAE government and  
its residents and I extend my sincerest 
thanks to you for your encouragement. 
We expect a good year for the UAE 
economy in 2016 supported by a 
reasonable GDP growth of around 3% 
despite the lower oil prices, based on 
forecasts by leading rating agencies. 
However, for the local healthcare sector 
the key accelerating driver of growth will 
be the on-going adoption of mandatory 
healthcare insurance in Dubai and the 
expected increase in covered patient 
rising from 1m to 3m according to  
Dubai Healthcare Authority (DHA). Most 
specifically for NMC, we expect strong 
growth coming from our enlarged 
network, its growing specialisms and  
the introduction of higher value added 
services especially through our single 
specialty verticals. 
DR B.R. SHETTY 
Executive Vice Chairman and CEO
