 Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2015
02
Chairman’s statement
Overview
I am delighted to announce that Norcros 
has recorded another year of revenue and 
underlying operating profit growth, a feat 
that the Group has now achieved for six 
consecutive years. Group revenue from 
continuing operations grew by 1.5% on 
a reported basis and 5.0% on a constant 
currency basis to £222.1m. Underlying 
operating profit at £17.0m, was 5.8% higher 
than prior year driven by a strong performance 
from our South African businesses, the highlight 
of which was the significant improvement 
in performance of Johnson Tiles South Africa. 
Also pleasing was the strong cash management 
demonstrated across the Group with 
underlying operating cash flow increasing 
to £22.9m (2014: £20.3m). 
Significant progress has been made during 
the year with the resolution of a number of 
our legacy issues. The disposal of Johnson 
Tiles Australia completed in May 2014 for 
£3.8m allowed the Group to focus on its 
strategic geographies of UK, South Africa 
and the Middle East. In the second half 
of the year we bought out our lease 
commitments on the surplus property 
at Orgreave Drive, Sheffield, and acquired 
the freehold for £3.4m, subsequently 
disposing of this freehold along with our 
remaining surplus freehold properties for 
£6.5m. These actions together with the 
recent resolution of our contractual dispute 
with Morrisons and the expiry of another 
onerous lease, means that the Group’s 
legacy property issues are now resolved 
in all material respects.
As a result of the strong operating cash 
generation, and the proceeds from the 
disposals of the surplus property and 
Johnson Tiles Australia, net debt reduced 
to £14.2m (2014: £26.9m), representing 
leverage of just 0.6 x EBITDA 
(2014: 1.2 x EBITDA).
In July 2014 we took advantage of 
favourable market conditions and agreed 
a new unsecured £70m banking facility 
with Lloyds Bank plc, Barclays Bank plc 
and HSBC Bank plc. The agreement also 
includes a £30m accordion facility which 
gives us further scope to fund growth 
through acquisition.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
for the year of 0.375p (2014: 0.34p) per share. 
When added to the interim dividend of 0.185p 
(2014: 0.17p) per share which was paid 
on 7 January 2015, this will make a total 
dividend for the year of 0.56p (2014: 0.51p) 
per share, a 9.8% increase on the 
previous year.
SUMMARY
 — Sixth consecutive year of growth
 — Strong cash generation – 
underlying operating cash flow 
12.8% higher at £22.9m
 — Significant improvement 
in South African performance
 — Good progress on legacy issues
 — Net debt reduced to £14.2m 
from £26.9m
 — Underlying ROCE at 16.3% – 
ahead of strategic target 
 — Full year dividend increased 
by 9.8%
Martin Towers
Chairman
NORCROS HAS RECORDED ANOTHER YEAR OF 
REVENUE AND UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 
GROWTH, A FEAT THAT THE GROUP HAS NOW 
ACHIEVED FOR SIX CONSECUTIVE YEARS.” Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Overview
03
Governance
As Chairman, one of my primary 
responsibilities is to ensure that the Group 
operates to the highest standards in all aspects 
of governance and risk management. Our 
aim within Norcros is to manage a growing 
business effectively, while ensuring that 
proper operating procedures and internal 
controls are maintained at all times. 
Transparency is central to this objective 
and you will find more detail about our 
approach and progress over the last year 
in the Corporate Governance section 
of this report.
People
The people who work for the Group are 
undoubtedly our key asset and I am certain 
that the existing opportunities for long-term 
growth will ensure that our employees find 
Norcros a place where they will continue to 
enjoy rewarding careers. On behalf of the 
Board I congratulate them all for delivering 
another year of strong progress.
Summary
Notwithstanding the challenges in our 
markets, Norcros has continued to deliver 
a creditable year on year improvement in 
its trading performance in line with market 
expectations. At the same time excellent 
progress has been made on the legacy 
issues combined with strong cash 
generation resulting in a strengthening 
in the Group’s financial position.
As well as continuing to drive organic 
revenue growth we have committed 
additional resource to progress suitable 
acquisitions in support of our strategy of 
doubling revenue to £420m by 2018. Whilst 
no further transactions have been concluded 
at the date of this report, I remain confident 
that we are making good progress towards 
this particular strategic target and that we 
will be able to respond swiftly to realise 
opportunities as they arise.
I am especially pleased that we have 
achieved an underlying ROCE of 16.3% in 
the year, ahead of our strategic target of 
12–15%, reflecting continued improvements 
in our operational performance, and the 
benefit of disposing of our non-core assets.
I believe the Group is very well placed to 
build on the excellent progress achieved 
this year, and underpinned by our strong 
brands and leading market positions, I look 
forward to the future with optimism.
M. G. Towers
Chairman
18 June 2015
p08
Business model
Johnson Tiles South 
Africa’s Fusion, Crete 
and Nostalgia ranges.
p12
Business review
