 Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2015
04
Group Chief Executive’s statement
Overview
Group revenue for the year increased 
by 1.5% to £222.1m (2014: £218.7m) and 
by 5.0% on a constant currency basis.
The UK market has remained challenging, 
with continued growth in the trade sector 
driven by continued improvements in new 
house build and housing transactions, but 
with only limited improvements in the retail 
sector impacted by sluggish consumer 
confidence particularly at the lower and 
middle income groups. UK revenue for the 
year at £149.1m (2014: £148.0m) was 0.7% 
ahead of the prior year, with higher revenue 
at Triton, Vado and Norcros Adhesives 
offsetting lower revenue at Johnson Tiles. 
UK underlying operating profit for the year 
was marginally lower at £13.8m (2014: £14.2m) 
with operating margins also slightly lower at 
9.2% (2014: 9.6%). Vado and Norcros Adhesives 
showed good profit progression in the year, 
and Triton maintained its strong profitability 
despite increasing revenue investment 
in order to develop new export markets. 
Johnson Tiles performance was impacted 
by lower revenue as well as production 
inefficiencies during part of the year which 
are now resolved.
I am particularly pleased to report 
a significantly improved performance in our 
South African business where revenue was 
15.1% higher on a constant currency basis 
and 3.2% higher on a reported basis. 
Underlying operating profit for the year in 
South Africa increased by 68.7% to £3.2m 
(2014: £1.9m) despite a weaker Rand, and 
operating margins improved from 2.7% to 
4.4%. All three businesses contributed to 
the improvement, with the benefits of the 
self–help initiatives and new investment 
beginning to be realised. In Johnson Tiles 
South Africa, exciting new product ranges 
have gained good market acceptance 
following the successful installation of 
our second inkjet printer, and together 
with continued manufacturing efficiency 
improvements, enabled the business to break 
even in the year, a significant improvement 
on last year. In TAL, strong revenue growth 
and the benefits of investment in new 
mixing and packaging equipment helped 
drive an improved performance, and in Tile 
Africa, although we are still in the initial 
phase of our roll-out programme, our 
exciting new CX store format is driving a 
much improved retail performance.
Group underlying operating profit at £17.0m 
(2014: £16.1m) was 5.8% higher than prior 
year, with Group underlying operating 
margins also ahead at 7.6% (2014: 7.3%).
Strong cash conversion in our businesses 
combined with the proceeds from the 
disposal of surplus property and Johnson 
Tiles Australia resulted in closing net debt 
at £14.2m (2014: £26.9 m), and leverage 
of 0.6 times EBITDA (2014: 1.2 times). 
With a new banking facility agreed in the 
year the Group is well placed to capitalise 
on opportunities as they arise.
Strategy
As reported in March 2013, the Board set 
itself three strategic targets. These are to 
double Group revenue to £420m by 2018, 
to maintain revenue derived outside of the 
UK at approximately 50% of Group revenue, 
and to sustain a pre-tax return on capital 
employed of 12% to 15% over the economic 
cycle. We remain committed to these 
targets and have made further progress 
towards achieving them.
The Group has continued to explore 
potential acquisitions and to further support 
this activity we have hired an experienced 
senior executive to solely focus on this key 
strategic initiative. Concurrently, continued 
investment in new product development 
programmes in our businesses is both 
generating organic revenue growth and 
driving Group synergies. For example, the 
first Vado branded electric shower range 
was recently launched into the specialist 
bathroom boutique channel and a new 
brassware range sourced directly from one 
of Vado’s Chinese suppliers was recently 
Nick Kelsall 
Group Chief Executive
I AM PARTICULARLY PLEASED TO REPORT A SIGNIFICANTLY 
IMPROVED PERFORMANCE IN OUR SOUTH AFRICAN BUSINESS 
WHERE REVENUE WAS 15.1% HIGHER ON A CONSTANT 
CURRENCY BASIS AND 3.2% HIGHER ON A REPORTED BASIS. 
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT FOR THE YEAR IN 
SOUTH AFRICA INCREASED BY 68.7% TO £3.2M (2014: £1.9M).”
launched in our Tile Africa business 
in South Africa.
As announced last year, we completed 
the sale of our Australian tiles business to 
Kim Hin Industries Berhad on 30 May 2014 
which resulted in a net cash inflow of £3.8m. 
We also completed the lease exit and 
freehold acquisition of the property in 
Sheffield for £3.4m, subsequently selling 
it and other surplus property to Clowes 
Developments (UK) Ltd on 2 March 2015, 
which resulted in proceeds after costs 
of £6.1m. The disposal of these non-core 
assets is an excellent outcome for shareholders, 
reducing leverage and allowing executive 
management to fully focus on its target 
geographies of the UK, Africa and the 
Middle East. 
Summary and outlook
Increasing UK commercial and domestic 
construction activity has driven growth in 
the UK trade and specification markets and 
we continue to grow strongly in this sector. 
The UK retail sector has been very mixed but 
improving trends in consumer confidence 
and forecast growth in RMI expenditure are 
both encouraging. Notwithstanding the 
short term challenges, the medium-term 
outlook in South Africa remains positive 
and the strong revenue and self–help 
momentum in our South African businesses 
should ensure we will make further progress 
in this year. With our strong brands, leading 
market positions, continued new product 
investment and self-help initiatives focused 
on market share gain, the Board remains 
confident that the Group should continue 
to make further progress for the year 
to 31 March 2016.
N. P. Kelsall
Group Chief Executive
18 June 2015 Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2015
05
Overview
Project aims:
To move the Tile Africa customer experience in store, 
not in line with, but well ahead of the competition.
To make the store easier to sell from, enabling the staff 
to improve customer service
To bring a welcoming ‘wow’ factor into the overall look, 
while increasing an exciting retail buzz
To improve sales of bathroom ware and taps
Some of the new innovations  
incorporated into the store as a result  
of comprehensive customer research:
The creation of an ‘Ideas Hub’ where customers can spread 
out floor plans, mix and match tiles and décor, and see tiles 
under different lighting conditions
The creation of a ‘store within a store’ for bathroom ware, 
taps and accessories, featuring bathroom sets put together 
according to style and price by group
Moving the popular lifestyle settings from the perimeter  
of the store to centrally placed groups of four
Creating easily visible colour coded category  
signs to guide customers in store
Laying out the tile displays intuitively,  
according to design type
Revenue growth (Nov–Mar)
78.2%
Increase in footfall
82.2%
Growth in bathroom ware and taps (Nov–Mar)
331.8%
GARSFONTEIN CASE STUDY
THE NEW CX  
STORE CONCEPT Norcros plc Annual report and accounts 2015
06
CASE STUDY
STANTON MANOR  
CARE HOME
The Challenge
Stanton Manor Care Home in Derbyshire needed to find 
an all inclusive showering solution for their new downstairs 
bathroom that would suit the majority of their residents 
and yet allow Stanton Manor to future proof their 
personal care facilities. 
Stanton Manor is a beautiful 20th century building 
so it was also important to the owners that the new 
extension was also stylish and homely.
The Solution
When Stanton Manor contacted Triton with their 
requirements for their new downstairs bathroom, it was 
clear the Safeguard+ was the perfect fit for them. Mindful 
of the ever-changing needs of care home residents who 
need every possible safety assurance without compromising 
the appearance of their bathroom, the inclusive design 
of the Safeguard+ was ideal. For additional assurance 
and functionality, we also recommend that we fitted the 
Safeguard+ with the Grab Riser Kit which provides a grab 
bar in the showering area tested up to 150kg if accidently 
or intentionally grabbed.
The Result
Priya Soni, director at Stanton Manor Care Home, 
commented: “Since installing the new shower, we’ve been 
able to offer all our residents safer showering than before, 
which is thanks to the variety of features offered by the 
product. We have a responsibility to ensure the products 
we use comply with quality and safety standards while 
being easy to use for residents and staff and the 
Safeguard+ certainly ticks all the boxes.”
Features such as the Grab Riser kit and automatic setting 
of the duration of shower have already increased the 
independence of the residents, which in turn is better 
for their own personal well-being.
