 4
Nostra Terra Oil and Gas Company plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
A
s Ewen has stated in his Chairman’s 
Report, we are experiencing the 
worst market in our sector for at least 
thirty years. Over the last 12 months 
our share price has suffered as Brent 
declined from $56.81 at the start of 
the year, dropping to $27 and closed 
at $37.50 by the end of the year. In 
the face of extreme adverse conditions 
we have worked tirelessly on behalf 
of Nostra, making a number of tough 
choices for the long-term good of the 
company. This has not been easy, but I 
am pleased to report we are starting to 
reap the benefits.
Overall this has been an extremely 
busy year for Nostra. As it became 
clear the industry would have to 
adapt to a significantly lower oil 
price environment, we recognized 
how vital it was to reposition the 
business. We initiated a cost cutting 
initiative in mid-2015, achieving an 
overall reduction of 40% in overheads, 
as recently announced. We also 
sought to restructure our board and 
management team to reflect Nostra’s 
needs going forward.
On a personal note, I’m very happy 
to have welcomed Ewen as our 
new Chairman to the team. Since 
his appointment, Ewen’s input into 
reformulating Nostra’s strategy has 
been crucial and I am certain he will 
play an extremely important role in the 
Company in the years to come. 
Rather than simply attempt to 
weather the storm, we decided to take 
advantage of a new oil price cycle. 
This involved adopting a new strategic 
focus, seeking to acquire producing 
or lower risk assets at distressed 
prices, which Nostra could take full 
operational control of. We expanded 
our global view, looking to enter 
into new geographical areas outside 
of the United States, and sought 
opportunities that presented large 
upside potential for relatively small 
initial consideration. 
We started our new strategy through 
identifying an opportunity in Southern 
Texas with intriguing potential. We 
acquired a minor interest in two 
different prospects for a minimal 
amount of consideration. These had 
large acreage positions with scope to 
increase our working interest should 
results prove up. Ultimately we decided 
not to proceed with the prospect, but 
this marked the beginning of Nostra’s 
new approach. 
Having acquired the White Buffalo 
prospect in the Big Horn Basin of 
Wyoming in late 2014, in 2015 we 
signed an agreement with Koch 
Exploration, a subsidiary of Koch 
Industries, to operate the Paw Paw 
prospect located in the same basin. The 
structure of the agreement allowed 
Nostra Terra the ability to control a 
prospect with a large potential reserve. 
While no consideration was paid for 
this we have worked to create an 
Exploration Unit over the prospective 
leases along with permitting for the 
initial well. We were able to extend the 
agreements into 2016 where Nostra 
Terra will seek partners to participate 
in the prospect.
During the second half of 2015 we 
expanded into Egypt by acquiring 
a 25% interest in the East Ghazalat 
concession in the Western Desert of 
Egypt. The seller agreed to finance 
a large portion of the acquisition 
leaving Nostra with a $500,000 equity 
investment to close the acquisition of 
this producing asset. Nostra and its 
other minority partner are currently in 
dispute with the operator over costs 
but are working with the operator 
to reduce operating costs in order to 
improve the economics on existing 
wells. There’s scope for further upside 
in development and exploration wells 
including the discoveries in the North 
Dabaa.
On the financial side of the business 
conditions have been tough. We 
doubled production into the turn of 
2015 and increased it by 81% by the 
end of the year. Revenue decreased 
to £594,000 primarily due to the drop 
of oil prices and natural production 
declines in wells, achieving a gross 
profit for the period before depletion, 
depreciation and amortization costs of 
£385,000. Our expectation had been 
this would put the company on a much 
firmer financial footing, but the sharp 
decline in the price of oil undid much 
of the good work we had completed 
previously. Despite this, at the end 
of 2015 Nostra was granted a 3-year 
extension to its $25 million Credit 
Facility with Texas Capital Bank with 
drawdown subject to production. This 
was particularly encouraging, given the 
number of companies whose business 
models failed over the period through 
being unable to secure refinancing 
terms on lending facilities. 
Moving into 2016 we continue to 
generate revenue from our existing 
assets, in particular Chisholm Trail, 
Bale Creek, and Verde. Multiple wells 
exist on each prospect thus creating 
a portfolio where the Company isn’t 
risked on a single well or operator. As 
some of these fields develop further 
we will look to reinvest capital in fields 
at an earlier stage in the cycle where 
further upside exists.
As announced on 29 June 2016, Nostra 
decided to sell an interest in a Chisholm 
Trail prospect for $2.1 million providing 
the opportunity to redeploy funds to 
assets where we have a larger interest 
and more control over the pace of 
growth.
I would like to finish by offering 
a personal message of thanks to 
our shareholders. This has been an 
extremely difficult period for the 
company. As the largest private holder 
of shares in Nostra I’ve suffered the 
effects of the falling share price 
alongside shareholders. However, we 
do live to fight another day. My fellow 
directors and I have made a number 
of extremely difficult decisions for 
the long term good of the company 
and I am confident we will turn the 
business around as conditions improve 
in the market. Our new strategy is 
both ambitious and built on a solid 
foundation and I look forward to 
providing more positive updates as we 
deliver on our objectives.
Matt Lofgran
Chief Operating Officer
29 June 2016
