 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 
Annual Report 2015 14
Chief Executive’s review
Maintaining financial stability to 
secure future production growth
How we performed in 2015
2015 was a stable year from an 
operational perspective. It saw the gas 
treatment facility continue to operate 
at full capacity with a complete range 
of hydrocarbon products being 
delivered to a range of customers and 
destinations outside Kazakhstan. We 
suffered an unexpected downtime in 
October due to unforeseen repair 
work made to the pipeline through 
which we export our gas. Outside of 
this downtime production was stable. 
Nostrum is now deep into its second 
development phase, which will entail 
the construction and commissioning of 
the new gas plant in combination with 
a scalable drilling programme in order 
to ramp up the plant as quickly as 
possible. 
Our performance against the three 
key objectives for the Company in 
2015 was as follows:
1. Ensure that the financial position 
of the Company remains stable:
The financial position of the Company 
remained stable despite the 
challenging oil price environment 
and we have ended the year with 
over US$160m of cash on our balance 
sheet. Given the severity of the oil 
price fall we have ensured that 
Nostrum has the financial security to 
survive any fall in the oil price during 
the next 24 months and still complete 
all its committed capex without the 
need for additional funding.
2. Ensure construction of the new 
gas plant remains on track for 2016:
Significant steps have been made in 
the construction of our next GTU, 
which will allow us to double our 
production capacity during 2017. We 
have spent over US$250m and expect 
the total cost to be below US$500m. 
Due to the falling oil price environment 
we decided in 2015 to phase the 
remaining payments on GTU3 across 
2016 and 2017. This means the 
scheduled completion date has been 
pushed back into 2017 as it allows us to 
preserve the liquidity position of the 
Company and match the hedging 
payment profile we have put in place. 
The phasing of payments on GTU3 in 
this way allows the Company to remain 
fully financed for the next 24 months 
whilst it completes the gas plant.
3. Optimise the drilling programme 
to ensure that we can fill the GTU3 
as quickly as possible whilst not 
jeopardising the Company’s financial 
position: 
We have closely monitored the drilling 
schedule during 2015 to ensure it is 
kept in balance with the falling oil 
price and corresponding reduction in 
operating cash flow. We reduced the 
number of rigs on the Chinarevskoye 
field in the second half of 2015 to one 
rig before increasing this to start 2016 
with three rigs. We are continually 
analysing and adjusting the drilling 
programme to optimise the current 
drilling capex as well as to maximise 
the speed of the ramp up once 
GTU3 is complete. The main driver for 
the speed of ramp up is the oil price 
during 2017. The oil price will dictate 
how many additional wells we can 
drill over our base case of simply 
maintaining production during 2017. 
Steady production levels
The Chinarevskoye field is now in 
stable production with all facilities 
running smoothly. Nostrum expects 
a daily total production average of at 
least 40,000 boepd for 2016 and 
2017. All products – crude oil, stabilised 
condensate, LPG and dry gas – are 
sold at the best possible prices on the 
world markets, and our operations 
are running at stable levels. We are 
targeting the doubling of production 
capacity during 2017. 
Future drilling programme at 
Chinarevskoye
In 2015, we completed eight wells, in 
line with the number we set out to 
complete at the start of the year. Our 
drilling programme has always been 
designed to be scalable and the falling 
oil prices have resulted in us scaling 
down the proposed drilling schedule 
for 2016 as we will only drill three 
production wells and one appraisal 
well at Chinarevskoye in addition to  Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 
Annual Report 2015 15
“ During 2015 we have ensured that Nostrum has the 
financial security to survive any fall in the oil price during 
the next 24 months and still complete all its committed 
capex without the need for additional funding.”
completing the appraisal well at 
Rostoshinskoye. Our current drilling 
programme allows us to maintain 
production above 40,000 boepd 
without jeopardising our liquidity 
position. We plan to increase drilling 
as we get closer to GTU3 completion  
in 2017 so that we can start to ramp up 
production as we increase our 
production capacity. The speed of 
the ramp up will be contingent on oil 
prices – the higher the oil price the 
quicker the ramp up. 
Construction of second Gas Plant
During 2015 we have made significant 
steps towards the construction of our 
new gas plant. The rationale behind 
the plant is that it will allow faster 
monetisation of reserves, by increasing 
treatment capacity by an additional 
2.5 bcm of raw gas per year, bringing 
total capacity to 4.2 bcm of raw gas 
per annum. Over US$250m has already 
been invested in the plant. We have 
revised the targeted completion 
date to 2017 as we have decided to 
phase construction payments to match 
the proceeds of our hedge position, 
which protects us against the current 
low oil prices. We are now on track 
to deliver the plant on time and on 
budget, below US$500m, during 2017.
Building up further reserves 
As a result of the falling oil price we 
have seen a reduction in the amount 
of proved and probable reserves over 
and above the amount produced 
during the year 2015. I am confident 
that we will recover these reserves 
under a higher oil price environment 
as the field remains in good condition 
and hydrocarbons in place remain 
broadly unchanged. I am therefore 
optimistic that any recovery in oil price 
can drive an increase in 2P reserves 
without having to undertake any 
additional exploration work on 
Chinarevskoye.
By virtue of its size, development stage 
and production track record, Nostrum 
has acquired high visibility both 
locally and internationally. As a result 
it regularly monitors further M&A 
opportunities. Its approach is to 
remain both pragmatic and prudent 
as it considers these options. 
Nostrum’s core focus remains on 
north-west Kazakhstan, where it knows 
the landscape and is already operating 
successfully. 
Key priority tasks for 2016
Our four key objectives for the 
Company in order to continue to 
deliver on our strategy are as follows: 
1.  Ensure that the financial position 
of the Company remains stable
2.  Ensure construction of the next 
gas plant remains on track for 2017
3.  Optimise the drilling programme 
to ensure that we can fill the GTU3 
as quickly as possible whilst not 
jeopardising the Company’s 
financial position
4.  Implement the cost reduction 
programme
I believe that these objectives, if 
successfully achieved, will provide the 
platform to enhance shareholder value 
in the future. We have demonstrated in 
the past that we can deliver on all 
these objectives and I am therefore 
confident as we enter 2016 that we 
are well placed to achieve our goals. 
I believe that we are well positioned 
to successfully execute the next phase 
of infrastructure, whilst also ensuring 
that we can maximise the value of our 
processing facilities by adding reserves 
over the coming years. 
Kai-Uwe Kessel
Chief Executive Officer
