 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 
Annual Report 2015 12
Chairman’s statement
Steady progress amidst falling oil prices
Our vision
Nostrum’s vision is to grow production 
to over 100,000 boepd and to 
build a reserve base that allows the 
Company to continue to produce at 
this level far into the future. This goal 
is now less than 24 months away from 
being realised, with the new gas plant 
due for delivery in 2017. Our target 
remains to become one of the leading 
companies in the FSU.
Nostrum intends to realise its vision 
through a clearly defined strategy, 
balancing organic development 
with carefully considered expansion 
through acquisitions. Its main priority 
remains, as always, to continue to 
deliver growth and shareholder value 
in a responsible and efficient way. 
Resilient financial and 
operational performance
Nostrum delivered a steady 
performance in 2015 with production 
averaging over 40,000 boepd for the 
entire year. The falling oil price meant 
that the Group’s financial results for 
the year were not as strong as in 2014, 
but with the continuation of our cost 
reduction programme and an increase 
in gas revenue from our new export 
contract for 75% of our gas, we 
maintained a resilient EBITDA margin 
of over 50%. We made good progress 
this year on our new gas plant and look 
forward to its completion next year, 
enabling us to double our production 
capacity to 100,000 boepd. I believe 
that Nostrum is uniquely placed to 
not only survive the current fall in oil 
prices but also to prosper once we 
have completed our new gas plant. 
Our ambitions to build one the leading 
independent E&P companies in the 
FSU remain as strong as ever and 
I believe the current environment can 
provide us with growth opportunities, 
rather than limitations. 
Flexible financial position
We continue to manage our cash 
position prudently and have ended 
the year with over US$160m of cash on 
our balance sheet. Given the volatile oil 
price, we also took steps to further 
protect the liquidity position of the 
Company. A new hedge was entered 
into that covers the Company over 
2016 and 2017 and locks in US$49.16 
per barrel on 15,000 boepd. The cost 
of the new hedge was paid for entirely 
by the proceeds of the previous 
hedge. In addition we have decided to 
phase the payments for the 
construction of our gas plant over the 
next 24 months to match the cash we 
will receive under our hedge. This 
ensures that the Company can execute 
its business plan under any oil price 
over the next 24 months.
With oil prices falling to around 
US$30 and the devaluation of the 
Tenge in 2015 we are focusing our 
efforts to further reduce operating 
costs as part of our cost reduction 
programme. Given the low operating 
costs of our field we can continue to 
generate positive cashflow even at 
the current low oil prices. Whilst cost 
cutting and liquidity management 
are the short-term focus, we remain 
committed to creating value through 
the construction of our new gas plant, 
the doubling of production capacity 
and expanding our reserves base. 
2016 dividend
As a result of the falling oil prices in 
2015, we are not proposing a dividend 
payment for 2016. We believe that in 
the current environment maintaining 
short-term liquidity will ultimately lead 
to greater shareholder value in the 
longer term. This is a tough decision 
to make as we had established a track 
record of distributing a small portion 
of cash to shareholders. However the 
Board believes that cash preservation 
is paramount in these uncertain times. 
Stable production levels
The financial performance of the 
Company was built on another steady 
year of operational results. Production 
of 40,391 boepd was below our 
guidance due to unforseen repair 
works to the pipeline through which 
gas is exported. Excluding the period 
of maintenance we would have met our 
target guidance figure for production 
for the year. Along with our new 
hedge, this steady production and 
associated cash flow continues to allow 
Nostrum to fully finance its investment 
in further infrastructure to double our 
production capacity.  Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 
Annual Report 2015 13
Multi-field asset base established
Nostrum has started the appraisal 
programme on the three additional 
licences acquired in 2013 which are 
estimated by Ryder Scott to hold 
87 mboe equivalent. We have adopted 
the same approach with our additional 
fields that we undertook with 
Chinarevskoye. The first step is to fully 
understand the geology and de-risk 
the development progamme as much 
as possible. We have carried out new 
3-D seismic on each field and have 
now interpreted it, allowing us to 
have a much better understanding 
of  where to position our first appraisal 
wells. We started drilling the first 
appraisal well in the largest field, 
Rostoshinskoye, in 2015, and its initial 
results are looking promising We look 
forward to developing these fields and 
to bringing them into production to 
utilise our infrastructure development. 
Governance and the Board
The Board understands the 
importance of providing effective 
and clear leadership and direction 
on all matters relating to corporate 
governance and places great 
significance on achieving high 
standards of governance to underpin 
the Group’s good business conduct 
and strong ethical culture. With this in 
mind I am very pleased with how the 
Company has handled its first full year 
since its regulatory obligations were 
increased as a result of the Company’s 
admission to the premium listing 
segment of the Official List of the 
Financial Conduct Authority and to 
trading on the London Stock Exchange 
PLC’s main market for listed securities 
in June 2014. I believe the Company 
has handled this transition very well. 
During 2015 the Board continued 
to work closely with management to 
maintain high standards of corporate 
governance and to ensure the 
Company’s continued compliance 
with the rules imposed by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and associated 
guidance under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Our commitment to corporate 
responsibility
At Nostrum we strive to be a 
responsible and transparent business. 
Our corporate responsibility 
approach covers the relationships 
we have with all our stakeholders 
including shareholders, employees, 
contractors, local communities and 
host governments, as well as the 
environments in which we work. 
Nostrum’s strategy on Corporate 
Responsibility focuses around three 
key areas – people, planet, and profit –  
and includes the following initiatives:
 Nostrum has made it a priority to 
communicate its approach to its 
various stakeholders, emphasising 
its stringent corporate governance 
provisions and business ethics;
 Nostrum monitors and reports on 
the wellbeing of its employees, 
health and safety measures, working 
environment specifics and overall 
benefits. Nostrum also reports on its 
direct involvement in the community 
through programmes providing 
social infrastructure, sponsoring 
activities and charitable work; and 
 Nostrum manages its environmental 
footprint carefully and adheres fully 
to relevant legislation. The Company 
is also proactive in linking its 
environmental objectives to the 
highest possible standards and 
ensuring stringent compliance and 
progress monitoring.
In 2015, we believe Nostrum’s actions 
have had a positive impact on its wide 
range of stakeholders, including 
investors, business partners, 
regulators, employees, customers, 
local communities, the environment 
and society more generally. 
Our people
Nostrum’s growth and success revolves 
around the quality and commitment 
of our people and we believe we have 
an excellent team that can deliver our 
strategy notwithstanding a lower oil 
price. Our global workforce now totals 
more than 1,000 people. We remain 
committed to developing local content 
and 98% of the people employed in 
our activities in Kazakhstan are Kazakh 
nationals as at the end of 2015. We will 
continue to develop our employment 
practices and policies to ensure we can 
attract and retain the best talent. At the 
same time we are implementing a cost 
reduction programme to adapt to 
the new low oil price environment 
which will ensure we do not carry 
unnecessary excess costs into 2016.
The future
2015 was a challenging year for 
Nostrum as we adapted to the falling 
oil price. We reacted quickly in cutting 
costs and took steps to protect the 
financial stability of the Company 
whilst not deviating from our strategy 
to double our processing capacity 
and reach a production level in excess 
of 100,000 boepd in the near future. 
In 2016 we need to remain vigilant 
on cost cutting and ensure that each 
dollar we invest will deliver future 
returns for shareholders in the new oil 
price environment. Whilst the industry 
is still adapting to the low oil prices 
I believe at Nostrum we have made 
quick decisive decisions that will 
protect our stakeholders under all 
possible oil price scenarios. With these 
solid foundations I look forward to 
completing our near-term initiatives 
and seeing Nostrum prosper under 
any recovery in the oil price in 
the future. 
Frank Monstrey
Chairman
“  Nostrum’s ability to navigate this period 
of low oil prices centres on the quality of its 
asset base and the commitment of our people.”
