 3
Nostra Terra Oil and Gas Company plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s Report
T
he oil industry continues to wrestle 
with the persistently lower oil 
price environment. The bear market 
has hurt the entire sector and led to 
a re-evaluation of strategy by many 
companies. At Nostra Terra we have 
taken steps to act early in response to 
such challenging conditions, seeking to 
restructure and reposition the business. 
This has involved making some difficult 
decisions and we would like to thank 
our shareholders for their continued 
support, in particular for voting in 
favour of the consolidation and 
capital reorganisation at the recent 
Extraordinary General Meeting. This 
was not a proposal we made lightly, 
but we remain convinced it will be 
in the long term best interests of the 
Company. 
Our strategic goals have been twofold 
in repositioning Nostra Terra. First we 
had to ensure the Company survives 
this extremely difficult period and 
second our key aim is to deliver 
significant value to shareholders 
over the medium term. We remain 
confident the Company’s renewed 
strategic focus on the acquisition of 
distressed assets will yield substantial 
results.
The success of the previous business 
model was reliant on modern 
exploration technology such as 
hydraulic fracturing and much 
higher oil prices, which allowed the 
Company to recover investment 
capital and generate a return. High 
initial production rates were also an 
important factor. However, such initial 
high levels of production declined 
significantly within a relatively short 
period, a feature of using hydraulic 
fracturing in the reservoirs targeted by 
the Company, which, combined with 
a rapid decline in the oil price, had 
an adverse effect on the Company’s 
revenue stream. The declining oil price 
also made it uneconomic to drill new 
wells to offset diminishing production.
Our new strategy at Nostra Terra is 
predicated upon the macro-adjustment 
within the entire industry, caused by 
the decline in the price of oil. Our focus 
is to build a business which at $30/bbl 
is cash neutral and reliant on more 
conventional oil with lower decline 
rates in production. At oil prices above 
$30/bbl Nostra Terra will then have the 
internally generated funds to invest 
in either organic growth within its 
producing oil field(s) or pursue new 
investment opportunities.  
In order to identify suitable 
opportunities for Nostra Terra we have 
extended our geographical focus, with 
the aim of having up to two focus 
areas outside of the USA.
Following a prolonged period of low 
prices, we have noted a sizeable recent 
increase in the quantity and caliber 
of oil & gas assets available for sale 
at distressed prices. This presents a 
rare opportunity for Nostra Terra to 
take advantage of. Now that we have 
repositioned the business we feel the 
Company is well placed to deliver its 
refocussed growth strategy over the 
coming years. 
The foundation of our new growth 
strategy is based on the recently 
announced cost cutting initiative, 
which we completed. During mid-
2015 Nostra Terra started to cut back 
spending in anticipation of further 
pressure on the oil price during the 
course of 2016. So far this decision 
has been vindicated and the Company 
now benefits from an overall reduction 
of 40% in overheads at a time when 
the industry remains subdued. A 
core component of the cost-cutting 
initiative has been for the Board to 
take a voluntary 25% pay cut. In light 
of ongoing weakness in the oil & gas 
market, which has caused significant 
declines in share prices across the 
sector, the Board strongly felt that this 
was an appropriate step to take.
With Nostra Terra now better 
positioned to withstand current 
market conditions, albeit with a lot 
of work still to be done, the Board 
remains fully committed to securing 
new projects for the Company, and 
to create shareholder value over the 
medium term. As Nostra Terra delivers 
its new growth strategy the Company 
plans to bolster its team with the 
addition of suitably experienced and 
astute technical personnel. This will 
only become necessary as we introduce 
additional producing assets to the 
business. 
I would like to thank the Company’s 
shareholders for their continued 
support and the next time I write 
to you I hope to report meaningful 
progress on the Company’s strategy 
and on the appointment of new 
non-executive and/or executive 
management personnel.
Ewen Ainsworth
Chairman
29 June 2016
