 Chairman’s Statement
I am confident that we now have 
the right team to deliver the inherent 
value that exists within our two main 
strategic opportunities
The Group remains in a
strong cash position with
cash reserves of £2.0 million.”
David Evans Non-executive Chairman
In summary
 – Confirmation that Visitect
®
 CD4 
completed its investigation phase 
but technical challenges remain.
 – External evaluations underway to support 
CE marking of the Allersys
®
 reagents.
 – Adjusted profit before tax 
increased by 25% to £1.4 million.
 – Appointment of Colin King 
as Chief Operating Officer. Omega Diagnostics Group PLC
Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2015 07
Strategy
Point-of-care (POC) testing
The Group’s strategy remains undiminished in wanting to become a 
market leader in the provision of POC testing for infectious diseases in 
large parts of the world where resources remain constrained and where 
there are substantial unmet needs. Our strategic priority for the year 
was to establish that our Visitect
®
 CD4 test was capable of achieving 
acceptable performance in a field setting.
Following a three-batch validation in February 2014, the Visitect
®
 CD4 
test underwent pilot studies in India and Kenya in the first half of the 
year. The results from the Indian study showed acceptable performance 
whereas the results from Kenya were sub-optimal, as compared to our 
design goals. In order to determine the cause behind the Kenyan results, 
further batches were made which, when tested on samples in the UK, 
demonstrated unacceptable levels of batch-to-batch variability.
We decided that we needed to make a number of changes to the 
programme to determine the root cause of variability. Firstly, we brought the 
previously outsourced manufacturing process in-house. Secondly, we 
engaged with experts in lateral flow device development and manufacture 
who were able to investigate the issues with co-inventors from the 
Burnet Institute. Thirdly, we shifted internal management responsibility 
to our Development team from Operations. Finally, we agreed access 
to a local hospital with a much higher throughput of patient samples. 
During the second half of the year, we sought to manufacture the test 
using the benchtop methods exactly as developed by the Burnet Institute 
and, in the process, we have been able to deconstruct and reconstruct 
the test and to characterise fully all the key components. We have been 
able to make thousands of devices, tested on hundreds of samples, which 
has resulted in the recent achievement of confirming that we now have 
a process of making test devices which is capable of meeting certain 
design goals. We have now moved into a period of verification and validation 
and we are concentrating our efforts on overcoming a stability issue 
that has become evident that manifests after a period of five weeks of 
storage at room temperature. This requires further investigation as to 
root cause, which is being undertaken now. Verification and validation is 
a necessary process undertaken to establish finished product performance 
and we will not put product back into field evaluation until we have 
addressed this issue and the product meets the needs of the target 
market. Once resolved, we will restart the earlier field trials.
Allergy automation
Our strategic aim in Allergy remains unaltered: to launch a panel of 40 
allergens on the automated IDS/Allersys
®
 system followed by a programme 
of menu extensions to achieve a number two market position. During 
the year, we transferred the optimisation work from our external contractor 
to a newly recruited in-house scientific team. Our external contractor 
remains a key contributor and retains responsibility for the claim support 
work. In total, we have six IDS/Allersys
®
 instruments across two sites 
supporting the work programmes.
Following a successful pilot study in June 2014, comparing the performance 
of eight Allersys
®
 allergens with the predicate device, ThermoFisher’s 
ImmunoCAP
®
 system, the results were presented in June this year at 
the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) annual 
meeting in Barcelona which has generated a lot of follow-on interest.
We now have a fully validated in-house manufacturing system with 
finished kits for 27 allergens available on the shelf. All these kits have 
recently begun external evaluations at sites in Spain and Italy and will 
provide performance data for the technical file needed to support CE 
marking the product. Commercialisation discussions continue, both 
with IDS in markets where it has a direct presence, and with IDS’ 
partners, which have developed a complementary range of 
autoimmune tests on the IDS/Allersys
®
 platform.
Financial performance
The Group has seen growth in revenue of 4%, achieving £12.1 million 
for the year (2014: £11.6 million). This is despite the weaker euro 
exchange rate against sterling throughout the year. Revenue would 
have been £0.4 million higher on a constant currency basis. Gross profit 
increased to £7.7 million (2014: £7.4 million) and adjusted profit before 
tax (our preferred measure of profit and as defined on page 31) increased 
by 25% to £1.4 million (2014: £1.1 million). Adjusted earnings per share 
was 1.3 pence (2014: 1.2 pence), the smaller rate of growth reflecting the 
higher average number of shares in issue throughout the current year.
The Group’s cash position remains strong with cash reserves of 
£2.0 million (2014: £3.1 million) at the year end following another year 
of efficient working capital management in the conversion of operating 
profit into operating cash.
Corporate governance
The size and structure of the Board and its committees are kept under 
review to ensure an appropriate level of governance operates throughout 
the year. The Board comprises two Non-executive Directors and three 
Executive Directors, with one more Executive Director joining the Board 
on 3 August 2015 (see below), who meet frequently during the year to 
discuss strategy and to review progress and outcomes against objectives. 
Whilst, as an AIM-quoted company, the Group is not required to comply 
with the full requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, we 
believe the Board has a good mix of skills and experience and a culture 
that easily enables the Non-executive members of the Board to challenge 
and advise the Executive team as appropriate.
The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee are comprised 
of the two Non-executive Directors and the Board believes the current 
make-up and the number of committees remain appropriate for a group 
of our size.
Board and employees
In transitioning through to our next phase of growth, I am very pleased 
that Colin King has agreed to join the Board as Chief Operating Officer, 
joining us from the Alere Group. Colin’s appointment will take effect 
from 3 August 2015 and a separate announcement with the relevant 
AIM disclosures will be made at that time. I have known Colin for many 
years and he has a wealth of experience in managing change, leading 
teams and delivering to targets. I am sure he will prove to be a valuable 
addition to our team at this exciting phase of our development.
Andrew Shepherd, whilst retaining his overall CEO remit and focus on 
delivering CD4 to the market, has been given responsibility for identifying 
new product opportunities in global health with a focus on achieving 
new product launch targets.
Last but not least, I would like to thank all our employees, who work 
very hard to deliver improving results year after year, and much of our 
progress is down to a team effort across the Group as a whole. 
Outlook
Trading in our core business in the new financial year to date is in line 
with management expectations. We continue to foresee growth 
opportunities in Food Intolerance which will mitigate the ongoing 
pressures of reimbursement for our Allergy business in Germany. 
Since our last update on Visitect
®
 CD4 confirming completion of the 
internal investigation phase, we moved into the process of verification 
and validation. This includes testing the longer-term stability of in-house 
manufactured finished devices, and as such, could not commence until 
the manufacturing process had been selected. We are now concentrating 
our efforts on overcoming the stability issue and we will put the product 
back into field evaluation only once we have addressed this issue.
We have continued to demonstrate that the combination of an increasing 
number of Allersys
®
 reagents on IDS’ automated analyser can achieve 
comparable performance with the market-leading predicate instrument and 
we have recently commenced the first of our external evaluations using 
product manufactured in-house with validated manufacturing methods. 
Our future prospects will be improved considerably by the successful 
outcomes to our two key strategic projects. Whilst we still face technical 
challenges, I am confident that we now have the right team to deliver the 
inherent value that exists within both these strategic opportunities.
David Evans
Non-executive Chairman
6 July 2015
Overview
