 Omega Diagnostics Group PLC
Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2015 02
At a Glance
A leading company in the fast growing 
area of immunoassay, with a global 
presence in over 100 countries
The Group provides a range of tests 
and instrumentation associated with 
food intolerance and gut health. Based 
on quantifying total IgG reactions to 
over 220 different foods, these tests 
are designed to support both health 
practitioners and individuals who 
wish to make informed decisions 
when managing their health.
The Group specialises in a range of diagnostic 
kits for infectious diseases, in particular 
syphilis, febrile antigens and dengue fever. 
Enzyme immunoassays are available for a 
variety of viral, bacterial and fungal infections, 
complemented by a diverse selection of 
agglutination, fluorescence and rapid tests.
Our focus
Infectious Diseases Food Intolerance Allergy and Autoimmune
Our range of products
Omega Diagnostics Group PLC’s subsidiaries provide high quality IVD (in-vitro diagnostics) 
products for use in hospitals, blood banks, clinics and laboratories in over 100 countries and 
specialise in the areas of allergy and autoimmune, food intolerance and infectious diseases.
600+
Over 600 specific IgE 
allergens available.
220+
IgG reactions to over 
220 different foods.
26m
26 million people living with HIV 
in remote settings need improved 
access to CD4 testing.
Revenue share
£3.6m
Allergy and Autoimmune
Main products:
 − Allergozyme
 − Allergodip
 − Genesis Elisa
Revenue share
£6m
Food Intolerance
Main products:
 − Genarrayt
®
/Foodprint
®
 − Food Detective
®
 − CNS laboratory service
Revenue share
£2.5m
Infectious Diseases
Main products:
 − Immutrep Syphilis
 − Micropath Bacterial tests
 − Dengue Elisa
30% 50% 20%
The Group develops, manufactures and sells 
allergy tests for over 600 allergens. It has more 
than 20 years’ experience in the development 
of products for the diagnosis of allergies and 
a substantial understanding and knowledge 
in the production and standardisation of 
allergen extracts. The autoimmune panel 
is a range of enzyme immunoassay (EIA) 
tests for the detection and quantification 
of multiple autoimmune diseases. Omega Diagnostics Group PLC
Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2015 03
  Countries where our products are distributed
 Countries where we have a direct presence
Where we operate
A global reach allows the Group 
to benefit from fast growing 
economies in emerging markets 
while simultaneously mitigating 
challenging economic and 
political instability in certain 
regions of the world.
Our Core Markets
Page 10
Chief Executive’s Review
Page 12
Our progress
Progress being made to deliver
the full value of Visitect
®
 CD4
By increasing the number of local sites available to us for testing 
and performing a number of internal investigations, we have identified 
and corrected the root cause issues that have previously led to 
test variability. The next steps are to complete the verification 
and validation of the in-house manufacturing processes.
Read more on page 14
Double-digit growth in Food 
Intolerance sales
The Food Intolerance division has again outperformed expections 
with increased sales of Food Detective
®
 kits and Genarrayt
®
/Foodprint
®
 
reagents as well as our CNS laboratory service increasing test numbers. 
A further 18 Genarrayt
®
/Foodprint
®
 instruments have been placed 
during the year, taking total installations to 150 across 38 countries.
Read more on pages 12 and 13
Strong financial performance
Adjusted profit before tax for the year has increased by 25% on the 
prior year, helped by increased sales and ongoing close management 
of overheads. This result was achieved despite reported turnover 
being approximately £0.4 million lower than it would have been 
if euro and dollar-denominated turnover had been translated 
at prior year exchange rates.
Read more on page 18
Continuing progress on the IDS/Allersys
®
automated analyser
Progress with the allergy development programme has focused on 
validation and scale up of the manufacturing process. Commercial 
scale quantities of 27 allergens have been produced and all have 
passed internal quality control procedures. Beta evaluations across 
two European sites in Italy and Spain are now underway.
Read more on page 15
 Kayleigh Bruce, Quality Control Supervisor.
Overview Omega Diagnostics Group PLC
Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2015 04
About us
We’re committed 
to addressing global 
health challenges
Our mission is to improve human health and 
well-being through innovative diagnostic products 
and global partnerships.
Omega is one of the UK’s leading companies in the fast growing area of food intolerance testing 
and also operates in markets supplying tests for allergies and autoimmune diseases and specific 
infectious diseases through a strong distribution network in over 100 countries.
 Left: Rory Ironside, Development Scientist.
 Right: Chris McMurran, Rapid Test Systems Manager.
At a Glance continued
