 Chief Executive’s Review
In summary
 – Group revenue increased by 4% to 
£12.1 million, despite currency headwinds.
 – Adjusted profit before tax increased 
by 25% to £1.4 million.
 – Important changes made to technical 
management of CD4 programme lead 
to completion of investigation phase.
 – Growing team focused on Global 
Health activities and opportunities.
 – Continued investment in in-house 
scientific resource.
The core business remains in good 
shape as evidenced by the increase 
in Food Intolerance sales
Dear fellow shareholder
During the year we made progress with the core business, mostly 
driven by the Food Intolerance division, which delivered another good 
year of growth and profitability. Although we faced challenging issues 
with the production transfer of the CD4 product, it also gave us the 
opportunity to review our overall operation to make it more efficient.
Operations and organisational change
The CD4 opportunity remains the major factor in what we see 
as the potential for transformational growth in the near future but, 
in acknowledging the issues that we faced with the technology transfer 
and subsequent initial trial results in India and Kenya, we clearly had 
to make some internal changes to how we work.
As David has mentioned in his Chairman’s Statement, additional important 
changes have been made to the technical management of the CD4 
programme with all technical activity now falling under the control of our 
R&D Director, Dr Edward Valente. As reported elsewhere we have recently 
encountered a stability issue which still needs to be resolved and I am 
confident we have the right team in place to do that.
We have also established a new division, Global Health, reporting 
directly to me, which encompasses all aspects of the CD4 product 
roll-out and promotion along with assessment and development of 
new product opportunities. This new division has a dedicated team 
of sales and product specialists who have built up extensive experience 
in the global health arena over the last few years. It also includes market 
development and promotional activities for the schistosomiasis and 
syphilis POC products.
In January 2015 we appointed Dr Nigel Abraham as Group Scientific 
Director for Food Intolerance Products and Services. A fellow of the 
Institute of Biomedical Science for over 30 years, Nigel joins us from 
Genova Diagnostics Europe, where he was Scientific Director and 
Board Member. Nigel is a specialist in allergy and food intolerance and 
has been involved in extensive research in the field of chemical mediators 
of allergic disease. His extensive knowledge and expertise will bring 
support to new product development as we extend our range, ongoing 
assay improvement programmes and customer service.
In appreciating the challenges ahead of us, we have expanded and 
broadened our Board Executive team with the appointment of Colin King 
as Chief Operating Officer (COO). We are all looking forward to Colin 
joining the Board in August 2015. His wealth of relevant industry 
experience and his depth and breadth of knowledge of the in-vitro 
diagnostics sector will greatly benefit the Company going forward.
In addition to the strengthened Board change we have a high quality 
senior management team, consisting of site managers from our subsidiary 
operations and other key managers from Operations, Development and 
Sales. This group meets on a regular basis to discuss and troubleshoot 
and contribute to the overall strategic goals of the Group.
Core business
Segmental revenue performance
Food Intolerance
The Food Intolerance division has consistently performed well since we 
acquired the Genesis/CNS business in 2007 and has maintained a 17.5% 
compound annual growth rate in revenue over the last six years. For 
this year, total Food Intolerance sales increased by 15% to £5.95 million 
(2014: £5.18 million).
Sales of Food Detective
®
 grew by a further 23% in the year to £2.08 million 
(2014: £1.69 million) with impressive growth performances in Poland,  Omega Diagnostics Group PLC
Annual Report and Group Financial Statements 2015 13
Brazil and China. Total volumes achieved were just over 163,000 units 
(2014: 106,000 units). Excluding component sales to China, the average 
selling price per kit was £20.66 (2014: £22.55), the fall over the previous 
year reflecting targeted promotional activities in Poland.
Sales of Genarrayt
®
/Foodprint
®
 reagents grew by 19% to £2.52 million 
(2014: £2.12 million) with strong performances in Spain, France, Canada 
and Brazil. Spain and France both exceeded annual revenues of £0.5 
million and the next five markets measured by revenue all exceeded 
£0.1 million each. The Group sold a further 18 instruments in the year, 
taking the cumulative number of installations to 150 instruments in 38 
countries, and revenue per instrument (excluding Spain) increased by 
4% to £14,354 (2014: £13,746). The lower percentage growth rate of 
revenue per instrument (as compared to the overall growth in reagent 
sales) reflects the investment being made into newer Far Eastern markets.
Our CNS laboratory service achieved a modest increase of 3% in 
sales to £0.65 million (2014: £0.64 million), dominated by the markets in the 
UK and Ireland. We produced and sold 8,241 patient reports in the year 
(2014: 7 ,985), maintaining an average price of £79.33 per report (2014: £79.55).
As our Food Intolerance business continues to be a key growth driver 
and contributor to the bottom line, it has become increasingly clear that 
we need the right resource to provide high level scientific and technical 
support for the CNS product range. The clear strategic intention is to 
continue on a growth trajectory with this core business supported by 
increasing the range of products in the health and well-being market, 
which now extends beyond 75 countries.
Allergy and Autoimmune
Sales for the Allergy and Autoimmune division are comprised of Allergy 
sales of £3.08 million (2014: £3.52 million) and sales of Autoimmune 
products of £0.53 million (2014: £0.45 million). The Allergy sales continue 
to be derived almost exclusively from our Omega GmbH business in 
Germany, which has experienced a reduction in sales due to continued 
reimbursement restrictions in all but five of the 17 regions we operate in. 
The overall reduction in Omega GmbH allergy sales was limited to 6% 
in euro terms. In reported sterling terms, the reduction was 13% due to 
the weakening of the euro against sterling rate throughout most of the 
year, the average rate being 1.275 (2014: 1.186). The strategy remains to 
focus on retaining customer relationships through training, service and 
education. The modest growth in Autoimmune sales reverses a recent 
downward trend due principally to growth in the Middle East.
Significant efforts continue to be made with the Allersys
®
 Allergy 
development programme with steady progress having been made 
towards commercial launch. With 32 allergens having been optimised 
and showing equivalent performance to the market leader and with 
external site evaluations still to be concluded there is still some work 
ahead of us but we have confidence that when we launch the test 
platform it will be well accepted.
Infectious Diseases 
Infectious Diseases sales increased by 4% to £2.55 million 
(2014: £2.45 million). The increase is principally down to two factors. 
First, the recovery in business fortunes of a UK customer that, in the 
previous year, experienced financial difficulties but which has now 
secured a more stable footing. Second, a combination of improved 
market and product mix in Africa and Asia has more than mitigated 
for some reductions in the Middle East.
Whilst remaining in a very competitive environment we foresee a future 
increase in sales coming from the introduction of new products such as 
CD4 and other products coming through the Global Health programme.
Global Health
Visitect
® 
CD4
Over the last year, there has been a tremendous effort made by the technical 
team in resolving the production issues surrounding the test following the 
results of earlier trials in India and Kenya. With assistance from the inventor 
scientists from the Burnet Institute together with additional support from 
expert consultants in rapid diagnostic test (RDT) development, we have now 
reached the point where all of the potential variables have been analysed 
and investigated, effectively rebuilding the test from base raw materials to 
finished product. Whilst we have successfully made three pilot batches we 
have yet to complete verification and validation studies to confirm robustness 
and manufacturing at scale. A repeat of the earlier field trials in India and 
Kenya to demonstrate utility in field conditions will only commence once the 
stability issue is resolved. Several other evaluation sites are under discussion 
with other NGO partners as the interest in the test remains very high.
In addition to full scale production in the UK, our production facility in 
Pune, India, is taking shape with a completion date expected within the 
next six months. This will eventually provide us with capacity of 2 million 
tests per annum in addition to the 2.5 million tests able to be produced 
in a single shift in the Alva, UK, facility.
Commercialisation 
Efforts in priming the market for the test entry onto the market have 
continued unabated throughout the year and we are at a stage where 
all the major groups in this field recognise and appreciate that Visitect
®
 
CD4 is going to fulfil a vital role in initiating antiretroviral treatment for 
millions of people living with HIV. Visitect
®
 CD4 is still the only 
instrument-free, disposable CD4 test available in the world.
Visitect
®
 CD4 is planned to be initially introduced and implemented in 13 
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa through working with major NGO networks.
As part of the commercialisation process there are certain regulatory 
hurdles to overcome in addition to gaining the CE mark approval for 
the test itself. WHO Prequalification (WHO PQ) for the test which aims to 
promote and facilitate access to safe, appropriate and affordable in-vitro 
diagnostics of good quality in an equitable manner. Focus is placed on 
in-vitro diagnostics for priority diseases such as HIV (including CD4) 
and their suitability for use in resource-limited settings. We are already 
engaged with WHO to gain PQ for Visitect
®
 CD4 but the timescale for this 
is likely to be in excess of one year. In the absence of WHO PQ approval 
there is also Expert Review Panel for Diagnostics (ERPD), which aims to 
provide guidance to procurement agencies. ERPD has been designed 
to assess the risks associated with procurement of diagnostic products 
that have high public health impact, but that have not yet undergone 
assessment by WHO or a stringent national regulatory authority (SRA) 
such as the US FDA. 
It is not intended to replace WHO PQ or stringent regulatory assessment. 
Rather, it provides an interim assessment decision, valid for a time-limited 
period, in anticipation of completion of stringent regulatory review. 
The short-term goal is to obtain ERPD approval for Visitect
®
 CD4 
well in advance of WHO PQ, which will allow the earliest procurement 
of product.
mHealth
The field trials of the Android smartphone app to record and transmit 
Visitect
®
 CD4 test results have also been delayed during the CD4 
investigation phase but will be capable of being recommenced once 
the results from India and Kenya show that the test device itself works 
in the field. NGOs and global health organisations are very enthusiastic 
as the test/app combination offers a complete information solution from 
test site to management headquarters. Our activities and involvement 
with the GSMA (Groupe Speciale Mobile Association) consortium 
continue to attract attention from major players in Africa such as mining 
companies which operate across the continent and in areas which are 
remote and have poor healthcare facilities and a high HIV burden.
Outlook
This last year has been challenging for the Company and frustrating 
for staff and shareholders alike with the delays in the launch of the 
CD4 test. However, we have made good progress over the last few 
months to have a test which is capable of being made which meets 
certain design goals, but technical challenges remain. Once we resolve 
these issues we will repeat the earlier field trials in Kenya and India, and 
are confident that we will deliver a product which meets the demands 
of the Global Health community.
Our core business has performed well again despite some headwinds 
in relation to foreign exchange issues which brought our turnover down 
by £0.4 million. However, once again, Food Intolerance kept up its good 
performance for both principal products, Food Detective
®
 and Genarrayt
®
/
Foodprint
®
, which we expect to see continuing this coming year.
However, we all appreciate that the focus is on Visitect
®
 CD4 as this 
product has the ability to be truly transformational for the Group. I would 
like to thank all the Group employees who have made great efforts 
throughout the year.
Andrew Shepherd
Chief Executive
6 July 2015
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
