 4 Ophir Energy plc
Chairman’s statement
During 2015 we:
• reduced underlying costs by $60 million. This was achieved 
through a number of measures including synergies from the 
acquisition of Salamander Energy, the closure of five operational 
offices, and the attendant staff reductions;
• made significant progress with moving forward the Fortuna FLNG 
project in Equatorial Guinea by agreeing Heads of Terms (HoT) 
with Golar LNG to be the Midstream provider and with seven 
potential gas offtakers. Post year-end we also agreed HoT with 
Schlumberger for an Upstream investment of 40% in the project 
that will see Ophir’s share of capital expenditure on the project 
covered to beyond first gas. This project will deliver in excess of 
$200 million of free cash flow per annum from 2019 net to our 
residual 40% economic interest; and
• continued to act counter-cyclically to secure attractive 
exploration acreage with minimal commitments that effectively 
provide us with a series of options.
2015 was a milestone year with the commencement of continuous 
revenues and cash flow from the Asian producing assets obtained 
through the acquisition of Salamander Energy. This brought with it 
a new set of operational challenges and the Board is pleased that 
we maintained our excellent track record for operating safely with 
no Lost Time Incidents recorded during the year. We constantly 
review our health and safety and environmental practices and will 
be adopting leading, as well as lagging, indicators this year as we 
seek to further advance our management systems and procedures. 
More details on this are available in the Corporate Responsibility 
section of this Annual Report. 
Dear Shareholder
2015 proved to be a hard year for our industry and Ophir 
has responded well in adapting to a very different operating 
environment. Although we are fortunate to have a strong balance 
sheet and high quality asset base, we rebalanced swiftly our 
business to reduce costs which ensured we utilised fully the 
strength of our balance sheet.
In the Chief Executive’s review, Nick Cooper outlines our thinking 
in terms of how we can ensure value creation in both the current 
and future cycles through a sharper strategic focus on increasing 
net asset value (NAV) per share. 
I am pleased that the work of our excellent team of people, together 
with our strong governance processes and structure, has enabled 
the Board to lead the business forward to comprehensively meet our 
strategic objectives. 
Overview
 “ We are making NAV per share growth  
the strategic driver for the business.”
