 Strategic Report
05
We use innovation to turn our smart 
science into commercial tools and 
systems that analyse and manipulate 
matter at the nano scale.
Chief Executive’s Review
In the year, Group orders grew by 13.0%. On a constant 
currency organic basis, order intake was flat. Market conditions 
demonstrated a mixed picture around the world. In Europe, 
orders grew by 9.6%, supported by a strong contribution 
from Andor Technology. On a constant currency organic 
basis, European orders fell by 4.3%. In North America, where 
demand for our Nanotechnology Tools is particularly strong, 
we saw orders grow by 23.8%. On a constant currency 
organic basis, growth was 2.6%. In Asia, we saw order 
growth of 8.9% or 1.5% on a constant currency organic basis.
Reported sales grew by 7.1%. On a constant currency organic 
basis, sales fell by 5.4%. Part of this decline was due to 
the completion of the ITER contract in the previous year 
and the decline in the Siemens MRI service business explained 
in the Operations section. Excluding these one-off factors, 
underlying sales were 4.1% lower, reflecting in particular 
the issues in our Plasma Technology and Industrial Analysis 
businesses as described below, and weaker trading in Japan. 
Developments in the second half
In Russia, we had anticipated that we would see increased 
revenues in the second half, as a number of large contracts 
were due for delivery. However, the delicate political situation 
in Russia led to an unexpected tightening of European Union 
export sanctions. This resulted in existing export licences 
being withdrawn and, as a consequence, previously booked 
orders had to be cancelled. It is currently unclear when further 
export licences will be approved. We saw little revenue 
from Russia during the second half and we have assumed 
no resumption in sales to Russia in the current year. This 
issue particularly affected our Plasma Technology business. 
In Japan, our forecast of market recovery has proved slower 
than expected. While we have seen some pick up in the 
order run rate, this came too late to generate the level 
of sales forecast for the second half of the year. 
In addition to these macroeconomic headwinds, and 
the anticipated impact of adverse currency movements 
throughout the year, we experienced weaker trading 
in our Industrial Analysis business. This is a short lead-time 
operation and sales in the second half fell short of expectations, 
partly due to a delay in introducing our new handheld 
X-ray fluorescence analysers, which did not start shipping 
until the end of the year. 
Summary:
• Group orders grew by 13.0%. Reported sales 
grew by 7.1%
• We saw little revenue from Russia and in Japan, 
our forecast of market recovery has proved 
slower than expected
• The Group accelerated a wide-reaching cost 
reduction programme aimed at improving 
our long term efficiencies and margins
• On 1 May 2015 Oxford Instruments announced 
the acquisition of Medical Imaging Resources 
(MIR); on 28  May 2015, we announced a joint 
venture with Scienta Scientific AB
Jonathan Flint, Chief Executive Oxford Instruments plc | Report and Financial Statements 2015 06
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Developments in the second half continued
Recognising the weaker trading environment, the Group 
accelerated a wide-reaching cost reduction programme 
aimed at improving our long term efficiency and margins. 
This programme originally targeted cost savings of £6 million 
which were expected to flow through to operating profit 
from financial year 2015/16 onwards. Through a rigorous 
and targeted pursuit of efficiencies, the anticipated savings 
are now estimated to be in the region of £8 million in 
the current financial year. This has been achieved through 
structural changes which have been embedded in the cost 
base of our businesses. As a result, it should benefit our 
performance in the current financial year and beyond. 
The headcount reduction has resulted in a loss of 
approximately 160 staff, representing 7% of our workforce. 
This has been achieved through a combination of voluntary 
and involuntary redundancies. Importantly, despite this 
level of restructuring, our efficiency savings have been 
achieved whilst retaining the key skills that we need 
to drive future innovation and growth. 
The drive for efficiencies has also involved the closure 
of six of our smaller sites, to be completed by the half year: 
Mannheim, Germany; Cowfold, UK; Dallas, USA; one of 
our Tokyo sites; one of our sites in Taunusstein, Germany; 
and one of our sites in Beijing, China. 
Strategic progress
Our focused efforts to restructure our cost base and drive 
through efficiencies have not distracted us from pursuing 
strategic actions that will deliver future growth and profitability. 
The Group has increased its spend on R&D to further exploit 
the opportunities that our technologies offer. Total cash 
spend on R&D in the year was £35.2 million or 9.1% 
of sales, up from 7.7% in the prior year. 
In addition, since year end, the Group has announced 
an acquisition and a joint venture.
On 1 May 2015, Oxford Instruments announced the 
acquisition of Medical Imaging Resources Inc. (MIR). 
MIR specialises in the build, lease and service of mobile 
medical imaging labs. These labs are built in MIR’s factory 
incorporating MRI and CT systems from Siemens, GE, 
Phillips and Toshiba. These mobile labs are leased to 
customers across the USA. Customers include hospitals 
and clinics that need additional capacity or wish to trial 
MRI or CT machines without committing to the infrastructure 
associated with a permanent unit. MIR forms a part of OI 
Healthcare, within the Group’s Service sector, our business 
which already services GE MRI and CT machines in the USA.
On 28 May 2015, we announced a joint venture with 
Scienta Scientific AB in the area of surface science. The joint 
venture will see a combination of Oxford Instruments plc’s 
Omicron business and Scienta’s surface science business. 
The combined organisation will use the strength of each of 
the partners to better address the specialist high technology 
surface science market niche. The combination of key 
technologies from Omicron and Scienta will create the 
dominant player in this growing market segment. Combining 
the two businesses also creates a number of operational 
synergies. Oxford Instruments plc owns 47% of the joint 
organisation and has the right to appoint two of the five 
Board members.
Strategic direction
Across the world, people are focused on addressing the 
great challenges of the 21st Century. Constant advances 
are needed to keep pace with our rapidly evolving world. 
With finite resources, we need to achieve more with a 
dwindling supply of raw materials. Oxford Instruments plc 
offers the means for customers to address these challenges 
at the atomic and molecular level. We use innovation to 
turn our smart science into commercial tools and systems 
that analyse and manipulate matter at the nano scale. 
“ Our efficiency savings have 
been achieved whilst retaining 
the key skills that we need 
to drive future innovation 
and growth.”
The Andor iXon Ultra 
camera is a tool used in 
both the life and physical 
science arenas. Application 
areas include super-resolution 
microscopy and astronomy. Strategic Report
Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   07
The continued expansion of our capabilities and expertise 
allows us to address our customers’ needs in a wide variety 
of markets that have an interest in working at the very 
small scale. 
Our staff deploy a high level of technical skill and deep 
understanding of technology trends to convert our intellectual 
property into new tools using the latest nanotechnology 
techniques. We enjoy a high Vitality Index measured 
by the proportion of revenues coming from products 
introduced in the last three years. This stands at 41%. 
Our Voice of the Customer programme constantly 
calibrates emerging customer requirements against 
available technology to ensure our R&D activities are 
focused on the most commercially attractive areas.
We adopt a business model whereby the Group sells 
tools to customers who wish to exploit the opportunities 
offered by nanotechnology. This model enables us to 
generate revenues from emerging industries which need 
to utilise nanotechnology without the Group incurring 
undue exposure to any one application or market. The 
Oxford Instruments plc brand is well recognised and valued, 
particularly in the research and academic communities.
Advances in information technology, new materials, imaging 
and quantum physics, have transformed physical science 
in recent years. Oxford Instruments plc is a leading tool 
provider for the advancement of physical science. These same 
advances are now beginning to transform the life sciences. 
Last year we announced the evolution of our strategy to 
exploit the current convergence of the sciences, especially 
at the nano scale, which is driving increased demand for 
nanotechnology tools. “Convergence” is an increasingly 
important aspect of scientific research where the merging 
of previously distinct areas of research and technology into 
a unified discipline creates new scientific and commercial 
opportunities. Convergence gives the Group an opportunity 
to take the technical tools and the disciplined design 
approach traditional to engineering and physics, and apply 
them to life science research. This provides the Group with 
an opportunity to access a new set of customers who 
are working at the molecular scale. Oxford Instruments’ 
acquisitions of Asylum Research in 2012 and Andor 
Technology in 2014 support this strategy of extending 
our reach into analysis tools for nano-bio research.
Current trading and outlook 
It has been a slow start in the first two months of the year; 
however we expect to see a return to organic growth in 
the remainder of the year as recently launched products 
and improved routes to market gain traction. This, together 
with the benefit of announced cost savings, means that 
our expectations for the current year are unchanged. The 
benefit of our leaner structure, ongoing cost savings and 
more favourable currency rates combined with our high 
gross margins offer the potential for a continuing improvement 
in our return on sales in the medium term. 
Nanotechnology, applied to both the physical sciences and 
life sciences, will continue to yield long term structural 
growth in demand for high technology tools. Our strategy 
is focused on growing the business in our core markets of 
physical and materials science, and exploiting convergence 
to expand into life sciences.
Jonathan Flint
Chief Executive
9 June 2015
Our tools-based development model
Global markets
Research and academia — Life sciences — Semiconductor/IT
Energy — Metals and construction — Environment
New scientific discoveries
Key growth technologies
Repeatable fabrication and analysis tools
Oxford Instruments 
tools and systems are 
used by customers at 
all levels
– fundamental research
–  development of new 
technologies
–  commer cialisation and 
manufacture
