 6 Ophir Energy plc
Chief Executive’s review
At Ophir we have given considerable 
thought over the past 18 months as to 
how we can develop a business that is 
differentiated from that of other E&P 
companies, both in terms of its approach 
to doing business, and as a place to work.
The current commodity price environment 
creates an opportunity for Ophir to redefine 
itself, placing net asset value creation at the 
forefront of everything we do. I would like 
to take this opportunity to set out our 
assessment of the international upstream 
sector, and Ophir’s place within it.
Let us start with the bad news. Despite 
fluctuating share and commodity prices, 
and some notable discoveries, the 
international upstream sector as a whole 
has had a poor record of value creation 
over the past decade. 
In particular, the sector has suffered 
in two ways:
1. Diminishing exploration success rates, 
which with hindsight have been driven by:
• financial and risk-taking indiscipline 
amongst exploration companies;
• too many commitment wells drilled 
as host governments increased their 
demands of explorers; and
• an indecent haste, partly motivated 
by equity market appetite, to chase  
new or breaking frontier plays rather 
than assimilate and build on collective 
understanding as a play is de-risked 
over time.
2. Increasing finding costs, as the above 
factors reduced finding rates, compounded 
by increased pricing in all three key 
exploration cost areas: acreage entry, 
seismic and drilling.
Even before the collapse in commodity 
prices, investors were beginning to question 
the value equation for upstream, seeing 
high finding costs and only rare examples 
of companies monetising their discoveries 
promptly and profitably. 
The significant capital inflow into the sector, 
primarily on the back of the unprecedented 
oil price rise in the period 2004 to 2008, had 
led many upstream players to chase growth 
at almost any cost, losing sight of the fact 
that value is created for investors by ‘finding 
cheap and monetising high’.
Specifically, when we look back on the recent 
period, it is clear that Ophir too made 
misjudgements and that we can sharpen 
our focus on value creation. At times we 
were drawn into high-risk commitment wells 
and chased look-alike plays with more haste 
than our geoscientists would have wanted. 
As a result, much deliberation has gone into 
how Ophir can tighten up its model with 
a real focus on return on invested capital.
Now that prices have been reset, the weaknesses 
in the E&P sector have been laid painfully bare.  
A rethink of the upstream model and of how  
to create value is essential and overdue.
Despite our mistakes, we feel Ophir’s track 
record is good. 
Ophir has demonstrated in Tanzania that 
it can monetise exploration success and we 
expect to provide further evidence of our ability 
to monetise our successes when we make 
a FID on the Fortuna FLNG project in 2016.
Ophir has been one of the more successful 
international E&P companies of the past 
decades with finding costs of $3.78/boe 
and success rates of 65%. 
We have found 3,000mmboe of gross 
discovered commercial resource in the past 
seven years and have divested 560mmboe 
of this for cash at $2.31boe. We have also 
achieved this without overly leveraging our 
balance sheet to much higher, mid-cycle 
oil prices.
And now the good news. We believe that 
there is an opportunity right now to amend 
our model and build an upstream business 
which will more consistently create value for 
shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Current exploration conditions are arguably 
the most favourable for decades:
1. Competition for assets has dramatically 
decreased and host governments have 
generally adjusted their demands in terms 
of work commitments to levels more aligned 
with the technical maturity of licence blocks.
2. The cost environment is deflating. 
Exploration service costs – both seismic 
and drilling – have dropped significantly. 
Development cost reductions are starting 
to feed through to operators.
3. The equity markets’ scepticism toward 
exploration and upstream investment 
means there is less pressure on upstream 
companies to rush the science.
4. Those upstream parties now able to 
secure acreage from a position of technical 
competitive advantage find themselves at the 
table for opportunities that were out of reach 
just two years ago.
Strategy
 “ We believe there is an opportunity right now to amend the 
model and build an upstream business which will consistently 
create value for shareholders and other stakeholders.” 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Governance report Supplementary information Financial statements
Ophir’s response to these conditions will be 
as follows:
• Our primary objective must remain that 
of protecting and growing NAV per share.
• We define NAV as the value of our 
producing assets, net cash and a risked 
value of developments that are beyond 
FID, minus 12 months of G&A costs. 
• We remain an exploration company 
at heart and will look to create NAV 
through best-in-class exploration and 
then monetising our exploration success. 
We are well-capitalised with a $355 million 
end-2015 net cash position, a significantly 
lowered capital expenditure programme 
and with much discretion in where we 
use our funds. 
• We will remain a ‘big E, little p’ upstream 
player. Our focus is on value creation 
with the drill bit. Our development and 
production activity will be sized to deliver 
a self-sustaining company. Each project 
decision will be made on a risked IRR 
basis. We do not have production or 
reserve growth targets, and so will not 
chase these opportunities if they do 
not create value. 
• We have rebuilt our exploration portfolio 
in Africa and Asia with high quality 
positions where Ophir has competitive 
advantage, where drilling commitments 
are minimised and where the fiscal 
regime allows material value creation at 
current commodity prices. This approach 
enables us to properly pace the exploration, 
high grade plays (withdrawing from any 
plays which, over time, disappoint) and 
focus our attention, and ultimately our 
drilling, solely on those attractive plays. 
• We will not rush to drill; we are carefully 
and counter-cyclically building an 
exploration acreage of low-cost options 
that we can decide whether or not to 
pursue at an appropriate stage when 
our play analyses are complete.
To deliver this model we have re-thought 
the way we manage our assets, our people 
and our capital. 
Assets are only held and progressed if they 
can demonstrably create substantial value 
for shareholders. If they do not, then they 
will be divested or relinquished.
Capital is being directed only at those assets 
which offer the highest risk-weighted returns. 
Assets offering weaker IRRs will either be 
improved or managed out of the portfolio.
Ophir’s people are its biggest asset. 
The technical team is stronger now than at 
any time in the Company’s history. We have 
reorganised to maximise the impact of our 
technical professionals and to minimise our 
support activities. 
All Ophir’s staff are stakeholders and their 
compensation is designed to include 
rewards only when investors benefit through 
NAV per share growth. That is why I sincerely 
hope that shareholders will support the new 
remuneration scheme which will more tightly 
align the actions of our team with the 
interests of our shareholders.
Moreover, we think it is necessary to define 
the purpose of upstream companies to 
include another element of shareholder 
value creation. The 2015 Paris Agreement 
re-emphasises the obligation on us to focus 
on a model of ‘finding cheap, monetising 
high’ whilst minimising environmental 
impact in doing so.
Ophir’s purpose is simple: to create value 
through safely exploring for and providing 
sources of energy in the most sustainable 
way. Ophir has the experience and the 
operational track record that gives the 
management the belief, and should give 
shareholders the reassurance, that we can 
deliver this. 
The E&P industry makes decisions based on 
a risk-adjusted outcome and on occasion our 
endeavours will not succeed, so we will learn 
from failure and success in equal measure to 
improve Ophir’s performance. Our ambition 
is to become the most valued E&P company.
As a final note, I thank the Chairman, Nic 
Smith, who steps down on 30 April 2016, for 
all the support, guidance and energy he has 
brought to Ophir since 2007. I would also like 
to welcome Bill Schrader to the role of 
Chairman, Bill has been a Board member 
since 2013 and his expertise will be 
invaluable for the next phase.
Dr Nick Cooper 
Chief Executive Officer
Ophir’s strategy for growth overview 
The key elements of the strategy are: 
Value creation 
through 
exploration
Active portfolio
management 
Focus on capital 
allocation and 
returns
Vision
Ophir’s vision is to be the 
leading independent 
international oil and 
gas exploration and 
production company. 
