 3
www.optare.com
Annual report and accounts 2015
Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
2014/15 represented an important step forward for 
Optare plc in terms of long-term growth through investment 
in product development, the recovery of Group sales 
in our major market, the UK, and international sales.
Enrico Vassallo Chief Executive Officer
Business and financial report
2014/15 represented an important step forward for Optare plc in terms 
of long-term growth through investment in product development, the 
recovery of Group sales in our major market, the UK, and international 
sales, mainly in Australia and the Middle East. 
Optare plc posted overall sales of 360 single deck vehicles in 2014/15, 
maintaining market share in the domestic market and growing 
international sales by 5% from 2013/14. 
The global turnover increased from £56.9m to £57.8m. Profit after tax 
was a net loss of £4.8m, mainly due to investment in product development 
including the introduction of the new Euro 6 product range, MetroCity 
single door, the new Tempo for Australia and low carbon certification 
for the Euro 6 MetroCity and Solo ranges. 
The overall UK bus market grew 12% compared to the previous year; 
this growth was primarily driven by the double deck segment (22% increase 
from 2013/14), while the single deck segment only grew marginally in 
comparison (6% increase from 2013/14). Optare plc was only present in 
the single deck segment in 2014/15 and grew 5% in line with the market.
In the single deck market, Optare plc continues to lead in the less than 12t 
segment (Solo) where Optare plc achieves 100% of market share. Optare plc 
launched the MetroCity single door in Q3 to be more competitive in the 
12–16t market, the results of which will not be apparent until next year and 
will explain the slight reduction in market share in this segment in 2014/15.
Optare plc continues to “embrace the environment” with sales of green 
technology increasing by 10% in 2014/15. The Company’s green vehicle 
strategy is further supported by the announcement of the world’s first 
Ultra Low Emission Zone in London and Optare plc’s first electric vehicle 
order solely funded by a commercial operator. 
The Company’s integration with our parent company, Ashok Leyland Ltd, 
continues to deliver sales opportunities in international markets and 
continued product development and cost control. 
The Company delisted from AIM on 1 June 2015.
Financial performance 
The financial results for the year show a net loss of £4.8m compared 
to a loss of £4.1m in the previous period, which represents a detraction 
of 17%, in the main due to considerable investment in new products.
The key highlights for the period ended are:
 ■
Revenue for the period was £57.8m; an improvement of 1% 
over prior year.
 ■
Pre-exceptional gross profit was 13% of turnover over 
the twelve-month period (2013/14:11%).
 ■
Pre-exceptional administrative expenses for the period 
were £9.5m (2013/14: £8.0m).
 ■
Pre-exceptional EBITDA losses were £1.6m (2013/14: £1.9m).
 ■
Operating cash outflow before working capital changes 
was £2.0m (2013/14: £1.9m).
 ■
There were exceptional costs of £0.5m in this year’s accounts 
(2013/14: £nil).
 ■
Loss per share was unchanged at 0.2p per share.
 ■
Further investment of £1.5m loan was received from parent company.
Current trading
On 31 March 2015, the current order book stood at £22.2m compared 
to £28.4m in the previous year. Although the order book value appears 
to have decreased, this is, in part, due to a smaller number of orders for 
electric vehicles because of reduced government funding for these vehicles. 
However, we are starting to see the first fully commercially funded orders 
for electric vehicles with an order for seven units placed in March 2015. 
Additionally, we have successfully launched our new MetroCity product, 
which completes our product offering in the market. 
We are the industry leaders in electric vehicles in the UK market 
with 80 in service across the UK and Europe. Increasing pressure on 
fuel cost, low emissions regulations and increasingly environmentally 
conscious customers provide the Company with an avenue to 
differentiate and grow in a mature market. 
In September 2014, Optare plc was recognised for its excellence in 
environment and green technology by the Indo European Business Forum 
at an awards ceremony at the House of Lords, Westminster, London. Optare plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 4
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT CONTINUED
Board and management changes
In October 2014, Steven Norris was appointed by Optare plc as an 
Independent Non-executive Director. Mr Norris simultaneously took 
on the role of Deputy Chairman of the Board and is assisting Optare plc 
in working with the UK bus industry to achieve greener bus travel 
and improved air quality in the UK.
The senior management team has been strengthened further to 
create an organisation that is customer focused to underpin our top line 
growth expansion.
Delisting
The Company delisted from AIM on 1 June 2015, after following the 
required shareholder consultation process. The delisting was undertaken 
as the Company was no longer receiving any benefits from its listed status.
Outlook
The Company will focus on developing the next generation of electric 
vehicles, particularly on increased operation range and introducing 
the MetroDecker to the market. A transformation programme to deliver 
business process excellence will be launched in Q1, designed to integrate 
business processes and to deliver the highest quality products and service. 
The UK market is showing signs of growth and the Board anticipates 
Optare plc will be part of this growth through its complete product 
offering. The Company is making solid progress to qualify to tender for 
substantial export contracts to take advantage of opportunities that exist 
in Europe, the Middle East and Southeast Asia.
Overall the Board expects progress in 2015/16 towards a satisfactory 
performance, with increased sales of electric vehicles driven by the London 
market, growth in Australia and Europe and a complete product offering.
Enrico Vassallo 
Chief Executive Officer
25 June 2015
