 Strategic Report
01 Report and Financial Statements 2015 | Oxford Instruments plc   
The Group delivered revenues of £386 million 
(2014: £360 million) and an adjusted 
profit before tax of £35.6 million 
(2014: £47.1 million). Whilst this was 
consistent with the guidance given in 
our January trading statement, it fell 
short of our expectations at the 
beginning of the year.
The outcome reflects a testing year for 
Oxford Instruments plc. In the first half 
of the year, despite overall increases in orders 
and revenues, progress was adversely 
impacted by weaker demand in Japan and 
tough trading conditions for our Plasma 
Technology business. We were therefore 
cautious about the outlook. As reported in 
our January trading update, in the second 
half we encountered a combination of 
headwinds that unexpectedly put our short 
term performance projections off-course. 
Three factors were primarily at play: the 
sudden tightening of trade sanctions for 
sales to Russia, a slower-than-expected 
recovery in Japanese markets, and weaker 
trading in our Industrial Analysis business. 
In response to the downturn in trading 
conditions, we rapidly implemented 
a wide-ranging programme to bring 
our cost base in line with our trading 
environment and to secure efficiencies 
that will deliver a fast turnaround in our 
performance. I am pleased to report that 
as a consequence of these actions, we are 
on track to deliver a higher level of cost 
savings in the current financial year than 
we had previously anticipated. 
Our team has rallied to the challenge and 
I want to thank all our staff for responding 
so vigorously and for retaining their 
enthusiasm and creativity despite the 
difficult conditions. 
In addition to our focus on restructuring 
the Group, we have taken positive strategic 
steps that will help drive future growth. 
We have increased our investment in R&D 
to underpin future organic growth. Since 
the year end, we have announced the 
acquisition of Medical Imaging Resources, 
and the formation of a joint venture 
between our Omicron business and 
Scienta Scientific AB. 
During the year, we added new talent 
to our Board. Professor Sir Richard Friend 
joined the Board of Oxford Instruments 
on 1 September 2014. Richard brings 
with him strong technical capability and 
valuable contacts in the worldwide academic 
community. Professor Sir Mike Brady 
stood down from the Board on 
9 September 2014 after serving as 
a Non-Executive Director since 1995. 
I would like to thank Mike for his 
immense contributions over many years 
and we welcome Richard to the Group.
The Directors are proposing a final 
dividend of 9.3 pence per share 
(2014: 9.04 pence), a 2.9% increase, 
bringing the total for the year to 
13.0 pence (2014: 12.4 pence). This 
represents the fifth consecutive year 
of dividend growth.
With these strategic moves made and the 
streamlined cost base in place, the Group 
looks forward to a period of solid growth.
Nigel Keen
Chairman
05
Our Chief Executive, 
Jonathan Flint, summarises 
our year on page 5
“ We have increased 
our investment in R&D 
to underpin future 
organic growth.”
Chairman’s Statement
