 2 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am privileged to have been asked to serve the company and its board as Chairman, having  
been appointed as a non-executive director in 2009.
We are pleased to report strong growth in net revenue with operating profits up 9.1% for the  
year under review. Our retail networks performed well and we have continued to make progress  
in Mobile and Online. We are proposing a final dividend of 26.1p per share, an increase of 9.2% 
on the final dividend last year, and our cash position remains strong.
Following a review of the Mobile and Online businesses, the board has decided to sell our parking 
and online payment processing companies to refocus on multi-channel payments and services, 
where we have retail networks. This will allow us to realise the value of the businesses we propose 
to sell. Further details of the proposed sale can be found in the Chief Executive’s statement.
We are committed to best-in-class governance for the board and processes that support the 
executives’ strong record on controls, ethics, risk and management. 
We are delighted that Neil Carson has joined the board as Senior Independent Director and 
remuneration committee Chairman. I am also delighted to welcome Gill Barr, who has agreed  
to join our board on 1 June 2015. We would like to thank David Newlands for his contribution  
as Chairman over many years and Eric Anstee, who has served as audit committee Chairman  
for the last seven years. We would also like to thank Warren Tucker for his contribution. Full  
details of the current directors are set out on page 23.
We have already reorganised the continuing business to focus on developing multi-channel 
payments and services for the blue chip clients of our retail networks, following the decision  
to sell the parking and online payment processing businesses. We have developed and sold the 
first multi-channel product and will look to extend the application across our varied client base.  
Our new terminal, now under development, will be piloted this year and will bring with it wider 
opportunities for new products for clients, retailers and consumers. We will also be continuing  
the search for retail expansion in new geographies.  
The board is excited by the long term potential for profitable growth and development as we 
capitalise on our competitive advantages and market opportunities.
Nick Wiles
Chairman
28 May 2015
PayPoint gains 
Approved Payment 
Institution status
Payment Institution status further 
enhances our position as one of 
the leading non-bank payment 
companies and authorises  
us to develop new product  
capability in regulated areas  
to bring schemes to market  
quicker and operate them  
more efficiently. 
It also means that we are able 
to develop digital and electronic 
versions of our successful CashOut 
service. CashOut reverses the 
traditional flow of cash from 
customer to retailer by enabling 
retailers to make certain payments 
to customers. Existing services 
include energy dual fuel rebates, 
Warm Home Discount, the  
Simple Payment service for  
benefits and pensions and  
Quick Credit Vouchers (QCV)  
for emergency payments.  
Multi-channel  
payment system for 
energy payments
Independent energy supplier  
Utilita has become the first user  
of PayPoint’ s new integrated,  
multi-channel payment solution  
for smart meter customers.
PayPoint has developed an 
innovative solution for energy 
suppliers and other consumer 
service organisations to manage 
their relationships with their 
customers, giving them an 
improved experience when 
choosing where, when and  
how they pay for their energy. 
Utilita’ s customers now have 
complete flexibility to pay using 
whichever method is most 
convenient for them at the  
time – in cash at any of the  
stores in PayPoint’ s retail network  
or by credit and debit card using 
their mobile phone, tablet or 
personal computer. 
“Utilita’s customer base is growing 
rapidly and our aim is to offer 
our customers the best possible 
payment experience. PayPoint’s 
unique multi-channel solution is 
integral to meeting that challenge 
and will help us to achieve our 
ambitious growth targets.”
 
Bill Bullen, founder and 
Managing Director of  
Utilita Energy
