 Our vision  
to be the point of every payment
BUSINESS MODEL
Payment 
Processing
Prepaid
Digital 
Wallets
How we make money
 - Merchants pay a variable fee structure 
comprising a percentage of the value of  
every payment transaction processed and/or  
a fixed fee based on number of transactions. 
Merchants may also pay fixed fees for certain 
value-add services.
 - Merchants pay a percentage of amounts 
transferred to and from consumers’ wallets, 
which comprises the majority of Digital Wallets 
fees. We also charge fees for consumers on 
some withdrawals and deposits, peer to  
peer payments and foreign exchange. 
 - Merchants pay us a percentage of the 
transaction value of the paysafecard vouchers 
they redeem. We pass some of this fee on to 
our distribution partners. The end consumer 
doesn’t usually pay a fee to Paysafe to buy  
and use a paysafecard voucher. 
Our competitive advantage
 - Paysafe Payment Processing offers relevant, 
state-of-the-art solutions to meet our clients’ 
current and future needs – whether that’s to 
accept payments from other countries, offer 
e-instalment or pay-later options, white-
labelled products or accept in-app mobile 
payments. Merchants choose us for our deep 
sector experience and risk management 
expertise. While managing complex payment 
needs, we provide data, insight and value-add 
services to help merchants offer safe and 
secure payments. 
 - Through Paysafe Digital Wallets, merchants can 
access a wide range of relevant and innovative 
payment options through one integration. 
Indemnified, immediately-available funds make 
it easy for them to accept payments and move 
money to consumers in more than 200 countries 
and territories. Merchants benefit from access  
to users of our wallets. 
 - Our Skrill and NETELLER wallets offer consumers 
secure, real-time payments. This includes 
easy-to-use options such as stored cards, 
frictionless recurring payments, VIP and loyalty 
programmes, prepaid withdrawal cards, and 
mobile solutions to make it easy to manage 
wallets and payments on the go. We also enable 
our consumers to send money to other wallet 
users globally, using just an email address. 
 - paysafecard enables merchants to reach 
consumers that want to use cash to pay  
for goods and services online. We help our 
merchants generate incremental revenue and 
reduce their risk by guaranteeing payments. 
Our expertise in building distribution and cash 
collection networks allows us to expand with 
confidence into new geographies. 
Our competitive advantage
 - Paysafe has a unique, feature-rich, comprehensive and 
relevant product suite that we can tailor to deliver desired  
and meaningful solutions. We bring the reach and scale of  
a global, multi-billion-dollar organisation to our clients. 
 - Across all divisions our focus is on working closely  
with businesses to offer relevant, simple and secure  
payment solutions. 
 - By partnering with Paysafe, clients gain access to our expertise 
across the spectrum of digital payments, as well as our global 
risk and compliance teams to provide peace of mind.
Pay-before Pay-now Pay-later
Paysafe Group
STRATEGIC REPORT
www.paysafe.com
11 Redefining the  
role of a payment 
provider...
We are incredibly pleased with these results.  
2015 was a tremendous year for our business.  
We operated at pace with focus, delivering growth 
in terms of our financial results and the increasing 
range of payment products and services we provide 
around the world. 
Our performance reflects ongoing successful 
execution, the effective integration and disciplined 
management of our recently acquired businesses, 
and the focus and ongoing commitment of  
our employees. 
A year of progress
Among the many highlights of the past year  
were the integration of Meritus and GMA, the 
acquisition of Skrill and FANS Entertainment,  
the transition to the Group’s new brand identity 
Paysafe and our elevation to the London Stock 
Exchange’s Main Market. These milestones, 
together with our inclusion in the FTSE 250 Index, 
are a testament to the significant progress  
made by the Group over the past 15 months. 
We also attained our first formal public credit 
ratings from Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s, 
issued two full prospectuses – one for the rights 
issue to finance the acquisition of Skrill which 
completed in May 2015 and one for the Main 
Market move in December 2015 – and hosted  
the enlarged Group’s first Capital Markets Day  
in London. 
Skrill
The acquisition of Skrill completed in August 
2015. This transaction diversified the Group’s 
customer base, product offering and geographic 
exposure due to the highly complementary 
nature of the two businesses. 
The Skrill Group comprised the Skrill digital 
wallet, which also offers a prepaid MasterCard; 
paysafecard, which provides prepaid payment 
products; and payolution, which arranges  
the provision of point-of-sale financing, giving 
merchants the ability to offer credit to customers 
to pay later via invoice or instalments once goods 
have been received.
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S STATEMENT
We operated at pace with 
focus, delivering growth in 
terms of our financial results 
and the increasing range  
of payment products and 
services we provide  
around the world.
Joel Leonoff,  
President and 
Chief Executive 
Officer
12
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2015
