 Three divisions: Payment Processing,  
Digital Wallets and Prepaid
As part of the reorganisation of the Group following  
the acquisition of Skrill, our results are reported under 
three divisions: Payment Processing, Digital Wallets  
and Prepaid: 
 - Payment Processing comprises our core  
processing services as well as payolution,  
Acquiring and FANS Entertainment; 
 - Digital Wallets comprises the NETELLER and Skrill 
digital wallet services and Issuing (Card Solutions); and
 - Prepaid comprises paysafecard.
Payment Processing
Payment Processing provides a range of payment 
processing services to businesses, helping merchants 
accept a wide variety of traditional and alternative 
payment types. As well as working directly with merchants 
in niche verticals, we integrate software partners and 
value-added resellers who provide payment processing 
services to their own clients as well as third parties that 
resell our payment processing services. Throughout 2015, 
Payment Processing continued to improve its presence  
in existing and new markets. We work with our clients to 
manage their risks by using proprietary technology and 
sophisticated risk and fraud management tools to help 
merchants process payments securely across multiple 
currencies and languages.
Payment Processing is the largest of the three Group 
divisions by revenue contribution, generating $375.1m  
in reported revenue in 2015, a 37% increase on FY 2014’s 
$274.7m. On a pro-forma constant currency basis, revenue 
grew 16% year-on-year. The reported revenue uplift was 
supported by the July 2014 acquisition of California-based 
payment processor Meritus Payment Solutions and 
US-based online payment company GMA. The integration 
of these businesses was completed during 2015.
Payment Processing includes payolution, Acquiring  
and FANS Entertainment;
 - payolution, with operations in central Europe, enables 
merchants to provide their customers with the ability to 
buy online and then pay later after receipt of the goods 
or via a payment plan. It provides services to a growing 
portfolio of merchants.
 - Acquiring is a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regulated business that launched at the end of 2014. 
Paysafe has principal membership of MasterCard 
Europe and Visa Europe for Acquiring. This allows  
the Group to provide merchants’ accounts directly.
 - FANS Entertainment, which Paysafe acquired in May 
2015, is a mobile e-commerce platform developer and 
integrator. Through this business, Paysafe is working  
to offer innovative value-added mobile services to its 
merchants and clients across the industries that the 
Group serves.
Digital Wallets
The Group’s Digital Wallets division enables consumers  
to make instant and secure guaranteed payments over 
the internet to businesses in a wide variety of sectors  
and to transfer money to family and friends. Our flagship 
NETELLER and Skrill digital wallets provide merchants 
with more than 100 payment options via one simple 
integration in more than 40 different currencies and 18 
languages. Our services include chargeback protection, 
VIP affiliate and loyalty programmes for merchants and 
marketing tools to help them attract, maintain and build 
their customer base. For consumers, Paysafe’s digital 
wallets enable them to send and receive money  
quickly, securely and easily in real time.
In 2015, Paysafe’s Digital Wallet business had reported 
revenue of $159.1m, 78% higher than 2014’s $89.6m, 
driven by the Skrill acquisition. On a pro-forma constant 
currency basis, Digital Wallets saw 17% year-on-year 
revenue growth.
New capabilities delivered in 2015 included: enabling new 
currency payments in Africa, Latin America and Eastern 
Europe; the acceptance of new payment options and 
alternative payment methods including Bitcoin; and 
enabling enhanced credit card transaction management, 
data insights, risk controls and chargeback services 
for merchants.
The Digital Wallets division includes Issuing  
(Card Solutions). Paysafe is a Principal Member of 
MasterCard and authorised by the FCA to issue e-money  
in the European Economic Area. Through this service, 
businesses can bring prepaid payment solutions to 
market more rapidly, efficiently and cost-effectively –  
whether it’s a white-label prepaid card programme  
or a turnkey solution. In February 2016, the Group 
announced a partnership with Payfriendz to provide 
payment processing, acquiring and card solutions  
for its own person-to-person social payments app, 
demonstrating the cross-sell opportunities between 
Paysafe’s Issuing and Payment Processing capabilities.
Prepaid
Paysafe Prepaid comprises the Group’s paysafecard 
business, which was acquired by Skrill in 2013. From  
its base in Austria, the provider of cash vouchers enables 
consumers to convert cash into digital currency and pay 
online quickly, easily and safely.
On 31 March 2015, and prior to the completion of the 
acquisition of Skrill by the Group, Skrill itself completed 
the acquisition of Ukash, an international UK-based 
provider of cash vouchers. Ukash provided a similar 
product offering to paysafecard and its largest market  
was the UK. Ukash was fully integrated within the 
paysafecard business during the year with the  
distribution of new Ukash vouchers and  
prepaid cards ending on 31 August 2015.
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
14
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2015 Prepaid’s reported revenue in 2015 was $76.4m.  
On a pro-forma constant currency basis, Prepaid  
grew revenue by 5% year-on-year.
The number of paysafecard users has grown  
significantly to more than 2.5m active users per  
month. By the end of 2015, paysafecard was being used  
by consumers in 42 countries, across 24 languages and  
23 currencies. During the year, paysafecard expanded  
into new markets including New Zealand, Kuwait and 
Saudi Arabia. The product’s multi-market reach is 
underpinned by a distribution network that surpassed 
more than 500,000 outlets in 2015. This growing 
distribution network includes retailers, kiosks, petrol 
stations, post offices and convenience stores. 
Brands such as Spotify, Deutsche Telekom and Ubisoft 
provide paysafecard payment options while distribution 
partners include 7Eleven and Shell. paysafecard’s 
Facebook page, which provides a platform to engage  
with existing and future customers, surpassed the  
1.1m followers mark in 2015.
In February 2016, paysafecard went live on the 
PlayStation®Store and PlayStation®4 games platform  
as a payment method, demonstrating the division’s 
continued channel development and diversification. 
Strategy
The scale and worldwide market presence of our  
enlarged Group enables us to capitalise on opportunities 
for cross-selling, with an ongoing emphasis on online 
payment products and an increasing focus on mobile-
centric payments services. Our strategy to realise our 
vision of being the point of every payment centres  
on a number of activities. 
 - Product development, both ensuring all our products 
and services are optimised for mobile and making it 
easier for our merchants to access all of our products 
and services. 
 - Investing in channel development, diversification into 
new verticals and geographic expansion to ensure our 
divisions can stay ahead of changing customer 
requirements and trends in their markets. 
 - Continuing to invest in building world-class technology, 
product, risk and compliance capabilities.
 - While our core businesses will be key drivers of  
the growth we are targeting, we continue to identify  
and pursue new opportunities that we believe provide  
the right fit for our payments business with attractive 
future growth potential, particularly in areas such  
as remittances, acquiring and e-invoicing  
and e-instalments.
Our key focus in 2016 is delivering on the opportunities 
arising from the integration of Skrill. Looking past the 
completion of that integration, we will continue to  
pursue accretive acquisitions that make strategic sense.
Awards
During the year, our team around the world was proud  
to have been recognised internationally for our ongoing 
innovations in pay-before, pay-now and pay-later 
products and services. During 2015 the Group’s 
awards included:
 - Deal of the Year at the UK Tech Awards.
 - Transaction of the Year at the UK AIM Awards.
 - Best Payments Company at the EGR North  
America Awards.
 - Best Mobile Payments Solution at the EGR B2B Awards 
in London for paysafecard. 
 - paysafecard was also recognised as the ‘Big Player’ 
winner at Austria’s Leading Companies Awards.
 - Best Payment Service Provider and Best Alternative 
Payment Solution for its NETELLER and NETBANX 
services at the CNP Awards.
Post-year end developments
On 16 February 2016, we acquired substantially all  
of the assets of MeritCard Solutions LP for an initial  
cash consideration of $16m plus up to a further $4m  
cash consideration subject to the achievement of  
certain financial performance targets over two years.  
The acquisition of the Dallas-based business broadens 
and deepens our sales capabilities and partner 
relationships in payment processing in the US. 
The company specialises in building relationships with 
small to medium-sized independent sales organisations, 
sales and bank agents as well as third-party vendors. 
MeritCard also works as a wholesale independent sales 
operator and counts Wells Fargo Bank, Deutsche Bank 
and Merrick Bank among its leading partners alongside 
TSYS. MeritCard will continue to operate under the 
MeritCard brand within Paysafe’s Payment 
Processing division.
Outlook
I am pleased to report that the positive momentum  
we’ve shown in delivering our results slightly ahead of 
expectations in FY 2015 has continued into the early part 
of this financial year. I am very excited about our prospects 
and opportunities in the year ahead.
Joel Leonoff
President and Chief Executive Officer
STRATEGIC REPORT
www.paysafe.com
15 Market overview
The payments industry is undergoing significant change 
and disruption, as the lines between online and offline 
payments continue to blur. As internet access becomes 
ubiquitous in developed and emerging markets due to  
the proliferation of smartphones and tablets and 3G and 
4G services, new and alternative forms of payments, 
including digital wallets, remittances and online credit, are 
rapidly emerging. This is taking place amid a continuing 
shift to e-commerce by consumers around the world. 
Retail e-commerce, for example, represented around  
7% of total sales worldwide in 2015, however this is 
forecast by eMarketer
1
 to expand to 12.8% by 2019. 
Merchants and consumers are demanding ever increasing 
security combined with products and solutions tailored  
to their evolving payment needs. As a result, to remain 
successful, companies must move from a ‘one size fits all’ 
approach to offering differentiated solutions and adapt to 
reflect the evolving needs of merchants and consumers. 
Such a dynamic requires a deep understanding of 
consumers and merchants in each segment, and  
the agility to develop and scale new services to take 
advantage of growth in various verticals. For example, 
until recently, remittances were dominated by a small 
number of players with corner shop franchise outlets.  
Now the industry is being transformed by digital payments 
and the ubiquity of mobile phones. As the World Bank 
referenced in its Migration and Remittances Factbook 
2016, remittances provide a lifeline for millions of 
households in developing countries, with international 
migrants estimated to have sent $601bn
2 
to their families 
in their home countries in 2015. Similarly, online gambling 
and associated payments potential continues to grow, 
with estimates ranging between 5 and 10% CAGR 
year-on-year growth for the segment.
Paysafe is well placed to take advantage of such trends, 
with deep sector expertise, relevant, comprehensive 
alternative and traditional online and mobile payment 
solutions, best-in-class technology, strong brands, and 
broad geographical reach. The Group has the insight, 
capability and scale to be the partner of choice for 
consumers and merchants worldwide. 
A shifting payments landscape
Amid rapid advances in online and mobile offerings,  
the payments industry also faces challenges. 
The threat of security and data breaches continues  
to increase in scope and scale. Only companies able  
to respond in an agile way to demands for enhanced 
security, compliance and fraud prevention will be able  
to reap the benefits of the sector’s growth. 
The speed and scope of regulatory change continues to 
increase, and this will influence the shape of the sector. 
For example, enhanced due diligence, anti-money 
laundering and other processes are now a pre-requisite. 
Payment providers need to differentiate through fraud 
and risk management tools, and compliance expertise.
Market dynamics also play a role. For example, a  
change in spending patterns of consumers in one  
market such as China may affect the payments  
industry in other geographies.
The broader industry remains highly fragmented in terms 
of product and geography, with the historical dominance 
of major banks and bank-owned networks reducing.
Paysafe actively invests to address such challenges,  
for example through a programme of continued 
technology investment alongside enhancing areas  
such as compliance and information security. In addition, 
following the acquisition of Skrill, Paysafe is now more 
global and diversified, reducing exposure to any one 
market or segment.
1. www.emarketer.com. 
2. www.worldbank.org.
Paysafe... is well placed with its 
unique, comprehensive and 
relevant suite of online and 
mobile-first payment solutions.
OUR MARKET
16
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2015 Our mission 
We believe that every point 
of every payment should be 
relevant, simple and secure.
OUR STRATEGY
We will achieve this via a relentless focus on delivering technologically 
advanced payment solutions that directly address our consumers’ and 
merchants’ needs.
This means:
 Ensuring all our products and services are optimised for mobile.
 Making it easier for our merchants to access all our products and services.
 Expanding into new geographies.
 Building world-class technology, product, risk and compliance capabilities.
 Investing in opportunities such as remittance, Acquiring and payolution.
 Delivering on the opportunities from the integration of Skrill.
 Continuing to pursue accretive acquisitions that make strategic sense.
www.paysafe.com
17
STRATEGIC REPORT
