 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
PayPoint rolls out  
ITSO smart ticketing
PayPoint’s new ITSO-compliant 
smart ticketing system has 
been rolled out with Cardiff 
Bus in Cardiff and the Vale 
of Glamorgan and with 
Merseytravel on Merseyside.  
ITSO ticketing enables transport 
companies and authorities to 
allow customers to buy tickets 
and load smart cards for use 
on multiple transport modes, 
including buses, underground 
rail and ferries.
The new service makes it much 
easier for customers to top up 
their smartcards with a range 
of ticket and value options 
each time they top up at 
PayPoint retailers, who benefit 
from extra footfall as well as 
other payments and purchases 
customers make while in  
the store.
“Partnering with PayPoint is the 
start of the journey in getting 
our tickets and the way people 
buy them fit for the 21
st
 century. 
PayPoint shops are mostly near 
to where our customers live so 
they will be able easily to load 
their transport smart card when 
buying a newspaper or a  
meal-to-go.” 
Cllr Liam Robinson,  
Chair of Merseytravel
Proposed sale of Mobile and Online businesses
We have built our Mobile and Online business organically and by acquisitions since 2006 to provide 
clients with a complete payment solution, gain access to fast growing markets and provide a migration 
path from cash in the event of decline. Notwithstanding predictions to the contrary, during our 
ownership of these businesses, cash use has remained robust and we have been able to improve 
our retail differentiation. T echnology and changing consumer trends are also giving rise to new 
opportunities for future growth centred around our retail proposition. At the same time, the mobile 
and online market has attracted a substantial amount of new investment, particularly last year. This 
investment has changed the competitive landscape, bringing pressure for both faster development and 
larger scale to support lower margins. The need for greater pace and scale has increased the execution 
risk and extended the timetable for returns for PayPoint. Positioned against the opportunities centred 
around our retail proposition, the board believes that there are likely better owners for these businesses 
and as a consequence has decided to sell the parking and online payment processing companies to 
realise their value.
We will continue with our strategy to develop a multi-channel payments company, but refocused  
on our retail network clients, retailers and consumers. We have built the capability to develop  
these products within the retained group. The focus on our retail network will further improve  
our differentiation and growth opportunities, without the need to own all the constituent  
processing infrastructure.
Review of performance
We have made good progress in all of our businesses in the financial year just completed. We  
have again been able to increase net revenue and profits, building on our near 20 year track  
record of success.
Retail payments and services
Our UK and Romanian retail networks continued to perform strongly, with net revenue growth of 
10.1%. PayPoint’ s market leadership in retail payments and services remains the driving force behind 
our success. We continue to be strongly differentiated through the unique quality and breadth of our 
client base and retail coverage. As a consequence, we contract with the best convenience retailers and 
are able to extend the range of payments and services that we provide, delivering new retail schemes 
that drive footfall and commission earnings to our retail partners.
In the UK and Ireland, convenience retailing continues to grow as busy consumers demand quality 
products and services on their doorstep. This evolution continues to drive investment by convenience 
retailers in their stores and improved product ranges. PayPoint sits in a unique position at the centre 
of this change as a leading innovator of in-store payments and services for consumers. Coupled with 
the growth of our retail network, we have continued to improve technology in store by rolling out 
PayPoint Point of Sale (PPOS), the software version of our terminal on retailers’ till systems and by 
placing broadband connected terminals, which process transactions more quickly.  The benefits of our 
focus on retail services are demonstrated by strong transaction growth of 28.8% in the year, as well 
as the increase in our overall average retail yield per site
1
. This growth has helped to mitigate a small 
decline of 0.7% in UK prepaid energy transactions, caused by reduced domestic gas consumption, and 
the continued decline in mobile top-up transaction volumes. We are excited by the new products and 
services which will drive our growth, with the launch of our third generation terminal providing the 
platform for retail innovation. We have developed a multi-channel product in UK retail, to address the 
payment challenges faced by utilities, as a result of the UK Government mandated change to smart 
meters by 2020, building on our existing online payment solutions for prepayment meters. This product 
has been sold into the energy sector and is attracting interest from other sectors. It will be available 
outside the UK in due course.  
Romania has made good progress with strong transaction growth, as we increase our share of over 
the counter bill payment, driving increased profitability. We continue to roll out further sites to get 
ever closer to where consumers live and work. With a network of over 9,000 sites, we already have 
the prime technology enabled network providing the platform to develop our payments and services 
offering. Bill payment transactions have grown 36.8%, as we continued to grow market share and 
add new clients and outlets. Contrary to the UK, mobile top-up transaction volumes have increased 
in Romania. We are evaluating new retail services to complement our international money transfer 
proposition, which has shown strong growth in the year. The prospects for Romania continue to  
be excellent, with the opportunity to extend our share of payments, develop our retail services 
proposition and to start to introduce the group’ s new multi-channel payment capability to our 
Romanian client base.
1. Average retail yield per site is retail network net revenue, excluding Simple Payment service set up, divided by the 
average number of retail sites in the period.
PayByPhone app 
features on Apple Watch
PayByPhone, which allows drivers 
to use an innovative mobile 
payment app for parking, was 
chosen by Apple to be one of 
the first apps to launch on Apple 
Watch. The app uses the glance 
feature on the face of Apple 
Watch to display discretely how 
much time is left in drivers’ parking 
sessions at any given moment. As 
with the existing phone app, the 
watch allows drivers instantly to 
extend the parking time without 
returning to their cars or searching 
for the exact change.
PayByPhone has millions of users 
globally paying for parking, bike 
hire, taxis or parking permits in 
over 300 locations worldwide, 
including San Francisco, Seattle, 
Miami, Vancouver, London,  
Paris and the Melbourne area  
in Australia.  
Digital services, like PayByPhone’s 
mobile parking payment app, 
cater to increasingly connected 
communities and can provide  
cities with impressive cost 
savings on new meter hardware, 
maintenance and data charges. 
They can also avoid the high cost  
of cash collection, which, in the  
USA can be as high as 35% of 
parking revenues. 4 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Collect+
In Collect+, our joint venture with Yodel, transactions increased by 38.7% to 18.8 million as the 
service continues to attract consumers and the best online retailers. The company has grown profit 
in the year, although logistics costs have increased. We have started to re-organise the network of 
Collect+ stores to ensure optimum coverage for consumers and the number of sites has increased 
to over 5,800. We continue to invest in service improvements to encourage growth and maintain 
our strong position in a developing market landscape. As the service grows, Collect+ is becoming 
a significantly larger part of the logistics landscape. We are in discussion with Yodel concerning 
proposed further increases in charges and capacity constraints for the logistics services provided  
to Collect+.
Mobile and Online
Transaction growth in our Mobile and Online channels in the year was 10.0%, although net  
revenue declined by 3.8%. Transaction growth was mainly from larger merchants, or newer  
parking clients, which have lower than average net revenues per transaction. Few businesses  
can match our nine million customer parking registrations and activity levels. We have also made  
excellent progress in introducing a new advanced payments platform for our online payment 
processing company, as well as innovative products, which are showing promise and should  
increase recurring service revenues going forward. Recent parking client wins have included  
Paris as well as many other long term renewals.
Opportunities beyond multi-channel
We have already made significant progress towards our multi-channel ambitions in our core  
retail client base and this can be continued and accelerated. The refocused strategy is evident  
in our new smart metering platforms, which provide broad multi-channel payments capability  
and draw on our payments experience as a specialised supplier.
In addition to our multi-channel payment services for clients, we are excited by the prospects  
for continued retail services success. Our major new initiative in this area will be our new tablet 
based terminal with integrated EPoS capability. We anticipate that this will enhance significantly 
our retail offer over the next few years, helping us to generate new sources of direct and third 
party revenues. As retailers adopt our EPoS capability, we should move even closer to the heart  
of retail operations, further increasing our yield per store, particularly in the independent and 
symbol sectors.
We have also been reviewing our international development options, building on our British,  
Irish and Romanian successes. We expect to move selectively into new territories organically  
and by acquisition, both in developing economies where cash dominates and in more  
advanced economies, which are already open to multi-channel service delivery.
Technology
Our businesses depend on technology. As a leading supplier of retail technology, we  
are designing our next generation of point of sale infrastructure which, in due course, will  
replace existing terminals and provide much richer functionality for retailers. This will integrate  
our technology deeper into our retail networks, providing the potential for offering new and 
enhanced services. We are completing the new storage network for our two new data centres 
which will be commissioned this year. We plan to close our other data centres after we have 
moved all systems and transaction processing.
Summary
We are invigorated by the opportunities ahead and continuing the momentum in our  
businesses. We are restructuring to gain efficiencies between group and our retail businesses, 
whilst realising the value of our parking and online payment processing businesses in the near 
future. Our strategy for continuing success is set out on the pages that follow.
Dominic Taylor
Chief Executive
28 May 2015
Utilities issue 
Government’s electricity 
rebate through PayPoint  
Most of the UK’s leading 
electricity suppliers issued the 
Government electricity rebate to 
around three million customers 
using PayPoint’s CashOut scheme. 
Each recipient received a voucher, 
which they were only able to 
redeem at PayPoint as a top-up 
on their electricity meters.  
The energy suppliers involved 
were British Gas, SSE, Scottish 
Power, EDF Energy, Utilita, 
Economy Energy, Utility 
Warehouse, Epower and  
Co-operative Energy. The rebate 
was ordered by the Government 
to provide eligible domestic 
electricity customers with a rebate 
as a key element of its policies to 
help reduce domestic energy bills.
Several energy companies 
also used PayPoint to deliver 
other discounts and rebates to 
customers. British Gas issued  
dual fuel discount vouchers to 
almost one million customers and 
Warm Home Discount vouchers  
to a further 197,000 customers 
for electricity meter top-ups, 
which could only be redeemed  
at PayPoint. EDF Energy also 
issued vouchers under the  
Warm Home Discount scheme  
to 75,000 customers, for 
redemption against gas  
and electricity top-ups only  
at PayPoint.  
