 Sustainability and resilience
To drive towards greater resource efficiency and energy 
security in times of economic austerity and challenging 
market conditions requires leadership and resolve. To 
balance the needs and priorities of communities, employees 
and stakeholders with the demands of the bottom line 
requires a clear understanding that they are essentially one 
and the same. The drive for sustainability supports growth. 
Clients, customers, employees and partners demand 
community benefit and responsibility in business, and Viridor 
is pleased to address that demand as part of the service. 
Viridor was delighted with its three star ranking in the 
Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, 
demonstrating clear overall progress for the business.
The new strategic orientation of Viridor’s business model 
around the company’s ‘Energy’ and ‘Recycling & Resources’ 
divisions, aligned with a clear focus on the engagement and 
professional development of its employees, is now delivering 
results. Viridor stands at the forefront of transforming waste 
in the UK using input materials to produce high quality 
recycled commodities, raw materials and energy. 
Report from the  
Chief Executive, 
Viridor
Overview
Viridor has now passed its strategic point of inflexion, as we 
continue to give more resources new life through our leading 
recycling and energy recovery services. I’m pleased to confirm 
that our Energy Recovery Facility (ERF) business is now 
operational with five new ERFs brought on line during the year. 
We remain well on track to deliver c. £100 million of EBITDA from 
ERFs in 2016/17. 
Despite the challenges in the recycling markets during the year, 
there are strong regulatory and market drivers for growth in the 
sector. Viridor is well positioned in its strategic business elements 
with significant cash being generated in Landfill Energy and with 
Contracts and Collection providing essential input materials for our 
‘Energy’ and ‘Recycling & Resources’ divisions’ operating facilities.
Ian McAulay 
Chief Executive,  
Viridor 
22 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, Viridor UK context
The UK is required under the European Union (EU) Landfill 
Directive to reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal 
waste going to landfill sites. This is being achieved by 
a continued increase in recycling, with residual waste 
increasingly being used for energy recovery. A new and 
more ambitious EU Circular Economy legislative package 
is expected in 2015. The previously proposed package, 
withdrawn in 2014, contained 70% recycling targets, 80% 
packaging recycling targets and material-specific landfill bans.
The EU Renewable Energy Directive requires the production 
of 20% of energy from renewable sources by 2020. Energy 
recovery from waste in all its forms has a clear role within 
the Government’s UK Renewable Energy Roadmap and 
continues to deliver a substantial proportion of total UK 
renewable energy generated. Viridor believes that by 
2020, UK energy recovery from waste could produce 15 
terawatt hours (TWh) of the total forecasted UK renewable 
energy generation (120 TWh), accounting for 12%. This 
is particularly significant given predicted future energy 
capacity shortages. 
The UK’s main mechanism for diverting waste from landfill 
and incentivising recycling and ERFs remains landfill tax. 
The UK and Scottish Governments have confirmed that 
landfill tax will rise on 1 April 2016 in line with inflation from 
the current position of £82.60 per tonne. This continues to 
influence the long-term economics of both recycling and 
energy recovery. In addition, recyclate costs have been 
typically significantly lower than the cost of using virgin 
materials for manufacturers. 
Viridor is clearly focused on giving resources new life through 
recycling and waste-based renewable energy. Investment 
in technology and operational practices continues to 
enhance recyclate quality to differentiate Viridor from its 
competitors and to position it strongly within a consolidating 
sector. Significant progress has also been made in the 
delivery of the ERF business, with a substantial asset base 
now operational in conjunction with associated business 
capability processes across the whole ‘source to supply’ 
energy from waste (EfW) cycle. 
Business strategy
Viridor’s strategy, built on its purpose to give resources new 
life, is to add substantial value through:
Energy
ERFs
Viridor’s strategically located network of ERFs now 
provides an established and growing business serving PPP 
contracts and the commercial sector. Viridor has moved 
from investment to delivery with five facilities commencing 
operations in 2014/15. EfW remains central to the UK’s 
waste and renewable energy strategies as the low cost 
alternative to landfill for treatment and disposal of residual 
waste, and provider of base load electricity and heat 
utilisation opportunities. Viridor expects to have c.15% EfW 
market share by 2020, with its network of strategic facilities 
driving the company’s long-term profit growth.
Landfill energy
The focus of the landfill energy business is to maximise 
the value of landfill gas power generation across all sites; 
to manage the ongoing decline in landfill inputs by closing 
18 sites over the next five years and maintaining three 
strategic operational sites; and to optimise returns on 
the closed landfills asset base through alternative uses 
such as photovoltaic installation, energy storage and 
divestment opportunities.
Continued focus on growing market share in a consolidating 
sector through its contracts and collections services, which 
play an essential role in securing inputs for the energy and 
recycling divisions, will also help to drive the delivery of the 
Viridor strategy. 
Recycling and resources
Clear regulatory drivers for recycling from the EU and from 
UK governments, alongside expectations from leading 
corporates, are ensuring strong and ongoing demand for 
recycling services. Viridor has established its recycling 
business over the past five years and currently handles 
volumes approaching two million tonnes per annum. Viridor’s 
focus on Input, Throughput, Output Optimisation (ITOO) 
across its recycling activities is yielding improvements, 
ensuring the production of high quality materials and 
management of the cost base to mitigate impacts 
on margins.
Strategic review
 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2015 23
Strategic 
overview
South West 
Water
Viridor Group Governance Financial 
statements Business performance
Revenue was up 4.2% to £835.9 million reflecting ERFs 
coming into operation and further growth in assets under 
construction, partly offset by anticipated lower recycling 
revenue, down £30.0 million, due to lower volumes and 
prices resulting from adverse market conditions.
Before exceptional items: Viridor’s earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) was 
up £4.1 million to £80.4 million (2013/14 £76.3 million); 
Viridor underlying EBITDA, which includes IFRIC 12 interest 
receivable and Viridor’s share of joint venture EBITDA, was 
up £9.4 million to £135.3 million; profit before interest and 
tax (PBIT) fell £8.6 million (28.5%) to £21.6 million; and PBIT 
plus joint ventures decreased by £5.7 million (13.1%) to 
£37.9 million. 
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 
£0.1 million (0.4%) to £27.7 million reflecting lower PBIT plus 
joint ventures, offset by reduced interest payable, as a result 
of increased equity investment in Viridor by Pennon and 
higher IFRIC 12 interest receivable. 
Capital expenditure including spend on service concession 
arrangements for the year was £262.2 million (2013/14 
£292 million) of which c. £242 million was for Viridor growth 
projects (largely ERFs) with the balance being maintenance 
of existing assets. 
Renewable energy
Energy can be recovered essentially via two methods, either 
via gas utilisation (notably landfill gas power generation and 
anaerobic digestion (AD)) or via combustion in ERFs and 
similar facilities, some of which may be a part of Combined 
Heat and Power (CHP) schemes. Landfill gas, biodegradable 
waste in ERFs and AD accounted for 25% of total UK 
renewable energy fuel use in 2013 (Digest of UK Energy 
Statistics 2014). 
(a)  Energy Recovery Facilities (ERFs) and 
Anaerobic Digestion (AD)
Viridor now has 139 MW of renewable energy capacity from 
its fleet of ERFs and AD facilities, which includes its share 
of joint ventures at Lakeside ERF, Runcorn I ERF and the 
Greater Manchester AD operations. 
The company has been successfully implementing its 
strategic plan to deliver the ERF business which will drive 
long-term profit momentum. This includes establishing a 
significant asset base of ERFs, the majority of which are now 
operational. Viridor and its partners have a total operational/
committed ERF capacity of 2.8 million tonnes. 
Five plants, being Runcorn I and II, Exeter, Ardley and 
Cardiff, have been delivered into the operational Energy 
Division, contributing underlying EBITDA of £41.9 million 
during the year. 
While the Runcorn plants were delayed in construction, 
liquidated damages were receivable for the period post 
the original contractual completion date. All other plants 
were delivered within or below budget. Two further plants, 
Peterborough and Glasgow, are more than halfway through 
construction; Dunbar commenced construction towards the 
end of the year, and Notice to Proceed with the construction 
of Beddington ERF was issued after the year-end.
100% of waste inputs have been secured for all plants 
at opening and Viridor has now secured c. 80% of the 
required waste inputs for the portfolio of the operational 
and committed plants, of which three-quarters are from 
long-term contracts. Achieving a balance between long-term 
local authority contracts and shorter term commercial 
waste fuel inputs enables an appropriate level of control 
over calorific value and therefore throughput and efficiency 
optimisation, as well as enhancing gate price control.
Strategic review Continued
24 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, Viridor (b) Landfill gas generation
Viridor’s landfill energy business is being managed to 
maximise the value of landfill gas power generation, while 
exploring cryogenic energy storage and solar power 
developments as alternative uses for landfill sites with 
existing grid connections.
Gas volumes reached peak production in 2012/13 and 
have been reducing gradually. In 2014/15 the landfill gas 
power generation output was marginally down to 602 
gigawatt hours (GWh) (2013/14 606 GWh), reflecting a 
successful output optimisation programme. Landfill gas 
power generation EBITDA was £35.8 million (2013/14 
£37.3 million).
Average revenue per megawatt hour (MWh) was 3.3% 
higher at £92.72 (2013/14 £89.74) reflecting the higher 
proportion of Renewables Obligation Certificates (ROCs). 
The switch from legacy Non Fossil Fuel Obligation (NFFO) 
contracts to ROCs continues with 94% of energy now sold 
under the higher value ROCs. The remaining 6% NFFO 
component will migrate to ROCs by 2016/17. Average 
costs increased to £33.19 per MWh (2013/14 £28.13) due 
to maintenance costs to improve gas capture and lower 
volumes. Total landfill gas power generation operational 
capacity remained at 104 MW (excluding 3 MW capacity at 
sub-contract sites in Suffolk).
A 2.75 MW solar power installation at Westbury landfill was 
completed during the first half of 2014/15 and an £8 million 
cryogenic energy storage pilot project at Pilsworth landfill, 
funded by the Department of Energy and Climate Change, 
is under way. Future alternative uses for landfill sites are 
also being assessed as most of Viridor’s landfill operations 
accelerate into closure. 
(c) Landfill
The business plan now being implemented for the landfill 
business is reducing operations to a few strategic sites, 
reflecting the fact that there will still be demand for landfilling 
of certain materials for the foreseeable future. The other sites 
are being run to closure and aftercare with an emphasis on 
maximising the value of electricity generation from landfill 
gas and reducing costs. Non-strategic sites and closed sites 
are being assessed for alternative uses – both for energy 
and for development potential. Three sites were closed in 
2014/15 and a similar closure rate is forecast for the next 
five years, taking the number of sites from 18 to three.
The business continues to be cash generative and 
contributed £15.4 million to EBITDA in the year. Volumes 
were slightly down at 2.5 million tonnes.
Average gate fees decreased by 13.6% to £19.92 per 
tonne. Consented landfill capacity reduced from 57.7 million 
cubic metres (mcm) at 31 March 2014 to 51.7 mcm at 
31 March 2015, reflecting usage during the period and site 
closures. As previously stated, and provided for, 39 mcm is 
not expected to be used.
Landfill tax is now increasing in line with inflation and 
increased on 1 April 2015 from £80 to £82.60.
 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2015 25
Strategic 
overview
South West 
Water
Viridor Group Governance Financial 
statements Recycling and resources
During the year recycling volumes traded decreased by 
151,000 tonnes (8.4%) to 1.7 million tonnes. Recyclate 
prices, while lower, have stabilised to some degree for most 
commodities but remain under pressure, reflecting world 
economic conditions and competitive markets. Overall, 
average revenues per tonne from recyclate sales and gate 
fees for the year fell to £86 per tonne, 7.7% lower than for 
2013/14. Viridor remains cautious about future recyclate 
price growth and shipping costs.
EBITDA for the year was £49.0 million (2013/14 
£62.6 million).
As announced at the half year, Viridor has commenced a 
two year Input, Throughput, Output Optimisation programme 
(ITOO) to provide an enhanced focus on increasing margins 
by taking actions across the value chain. The company 
is targeting a substantial enhancement in EBITDA margin 
through improvements in asset productivity. 
Viridor continues to operate the most extensive Materials 
Recycling Facility (MRF) capacity in the UK with 
accreditations for export to China, and is established 
as a quality brand in the UK, Europe and other Far 
Eastern markets.
Profits were down slightly across the 15 local authority 
contracts around the UK (the more significant contracts 
include Greater Manchester, Lakeside, Glasgow, Lancashire, 
Somerset and West Sussex) and the Thames Water 
contract. The decrease reflected lower volumes on some 
contracts and the expiry of other contracts. 
Additional contracts have been won since the year-end but 
profits are expected to be impacted by the expiry of some 
old contracts.
Profits in the collection business were ahead of expectations, 
reflecting the benefits of sustained management action. 
Collection remains a key focus in securing increased input 
tonnages for the business.
Joint ventures
Total share of joint ventures’ EBITDA (comprising VLGM 
(including IFRIC 12 interest), TPSCo and Lakeside) was 
up 0.7% to £41.4 million (2013/14 £41.1 million). Total 
share of joint ventures’ profit after tax was £4.9 million, up 
£1.2 million from 2013/14. 
(a) Viridor Laing (Greater Manchester) (VLGM)
The 25 year Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract (being 
delivered through VLGM) is the UK’s largest ever combined 
waste and renewable energy project. The company is a 
joint venture between Viridor and John Laing Infrastructure. 
Operation of the associated facilities is being carried out on 
a sub-contract basis by Viridor.
Solid recovered fuel produced from the waste is used to 
generate heat and power at Runcorn I ERF, which has 
been built primarily for the Greater Manchester Waste 
PFI contract. 
As part of the VLGM contract, a separate contractor was 
mandated to construct 43 facilities. All of the facilities have 
now been formally taken over by Viridor. Final acceptance of 
certain facilities remains subject to fulfilment of the required 
contractual terms. 
Viridor’s share of VLGM’s EBITDA was £3.0 million (2013/14 
£2.5 million). Viridor’s share of IFRIC 12 interest was 
£12.1 million (2013/14 £12.5 million). 
(b) Runcorn I (TPSCo)
Viridor’s share of TPSCo’s EBITDA was £8.2 million 
(2013/14 £10.9 million) reflecting higher costs during 
final commissioning.
The Runcorn I ERF was taken over in January 2015. 
(c) Lakeside
Lakeside, the first of Viridor’s ERF projects, continues to 
outperform its financial close assumed power generation 
and waste processing targets. Viridor’s share of Lakeside’s 
EBITDA was £18.1 million (2013/14 £15.2 million). 
Results in 2014/15 benefited from different scheduled 
outage timing (H1 2013/14 vs H1 2015/16) and continued 
good performance.
Strategic review Continued
26 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, Viridor People 
Viridor employs over 3,000 people across the UK. The 
achievements, professionalism and innovation of its 
employees remain a great source of pride to the company. 
Their health, safety and welfare remain its top priority.
Health and safety
Viridor has set itself the goal of making a step change in the 
way it manages health, safety and welfare, and is working 
hard to promote a ‘zero incidents’ safety culture throughout 
the organisation. Central to its approach are clear, effective 
and regular campaigns and communications supporting 
health, safety and working well, such as the high profile 
‘Stop & Think’ campaign originally developed in the South 
West and now rolled out across all company sites. There 
was a continued fall in the RIDDOR incidence rate, with 
28 reportable incidents giving a rate of 889 per 100,000 
employees (2013/14 1,197). 
A tragic incident which resulted in a fatality of a Viridor 
employee in early June 2015 is under investigation. Our 
thoughts are with his friends, family and colleagues.
Employee development
Leading organisations across the world recognise that 
skills, professional development and retention are of crucial 
importance, and good employee engagement is becoming 
one of the key differentiators in business. Engaged 
employees and high-performing teams help drive safety, 
productivity, profitability and customer focus. Viridor has 
renewed its focus in this area utilising the well-respected 
Gallup Q12 engagement programme. Following its first 
company-wide Q12 survey and a series of staff roadshows 
sharing the company strategy and key business priorities, 
local level action planning is now helping to drive positive 
change and a focus on business improvements across 
the company. This is particularly timely as the company 
continues the implementation of its Enterprise Resource 
Platform throughout the business.
Viridor has comprehensive programmes of training and 
professional development to ensure its employees have the 
skills, expertise and support to meet the demands of the 
business. 5,887 training days were delivered across the 
company during the year. Viridor currently has 15 full-time 
apprenticeships and an additional five new apprenticeships 
have been confirmed for Viridor’s ERFs. A new intake 
has been confirmed for the innovative Viridor Foundation 
Management Degree course, developed in partnership 
with Edge Hill University. The first cohort of 15 managers 
successfully graduated in 2014, with 25 due to graduate 
in 2015/16.
The company continues to strive towards a workforce that is 
representative of the communities in which it operates and to 
ensure a pipeline of talent for the future needs of the business. 
Viridor’s employee performance appraisal system incorporates 
the company’s six core behavioural competencies, designed 
to ensure the right managerial skill sets. Succession planning 
is also underway across the business.
Key relationships
Of Viridor’s largest customer groups, local authorities 
account for 39% of the company’s revenue (2013/14 
31%). No individual authority accounts for more than 12% 
(2013/14 12%). Viridor’s ROC energy contracts account for 
7% of revenue (2013/14 7%), primarily with one customer.
The company’s operational facilities in England and Wales 
require environmental permits to be issued and regulated 
by the Environment Agency and Natural Resources Wales. 
In Scotland similar waste management licences or pollution 
prevention and control permits are issued and regulated 
by the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency. Viridor 
maintains a positive and proactive working relationship 
with these and other regulatory bodies by means of close 
ongoing liaison and active management of any issues arising 
under permit conditions at either site or strategic levels. For 
example, Viridor continues to share live monitoring data from 
operational sites with the regulators via custom-developed 
web portals to ensure a transparent and resource-saving 
approach to monitoring and regulation.
Viridor has strengthened its approach to procurement and 
supply chain relationships during the year with the formation 
of a new procurement function and more efficient protocols. 
These include a formal policy on sustainable procurement 
utilising whole life costings, ensuring clear environmental and 
social responsibility criteria for goods and services procured, and 
delivering long-term value for Viridor and, in turn, its customers. 
Outlook
Excellent progress has been achieved in the realisation and 
delivery of its ERF business. Five major facilities became 
operational in the financial year adding to the existing 
Lakeside and Bolton operational ERF assets. Three others 
are under construction and Notice to Proceed with the 
construction of Beddington ERF has been issued. 
The drivers and demand for recycling in the UK remain strong, 
although Viridor remains appropriately cautious about the future 
prospects for recyclate prices. The company is nonetheless 
strongly positioned and remains focused on its ITOO 
programme to maximise revenues and achieve efficiencies to 
sustain margins. A further decline in recyclate prices and UK 
power prices would impact profitability next year.
Viridor’ s EBITDA figure in 2014/15 exceeded 2013/14 as 
expected. The operational ERFs along with those that are 
under construction are expected to contribute c. £100 million to 
Viridor’ s EBITDA in 2016/17. Viridor is also well positioned with 
its recycling, contracts and collections assets and services.
Ian McAulay 
Chief Executive, Viridor
 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2015 27
Strategic 
overview
South West 
Water
Viridor Group Governance Financial 
statements
