 South West Water has performed strongly against the 2010-2015 
regulatory contract. Despite the tariff freeze, revenue has grown and 
robust cost control has resulted in cumulative cost increases over the 
five years being lower than inflation. As a result of outperformance, 
South West Water delivered a dividend to Pennon above the 2009 
Final Determination assumptions.
In December 2014 South West Water accepted Ofwat’s Final 
Determination of its Business Plan to 2020. This followed a 
favourable price review process that saw South West Water’s plan 
singled out for ‘enhanced’ status and subsequently fast-tracked 
for early Draft Determination. Ofwat praised the high quality of the 
‘WaterFuture’ plan, which had received the backing of 84% of 
customers at the time of its publication in December 2013. South 
West Water benefited from Ofwat’s ‘do no harm’ principle and 
was able to make an early start on its K6 investment programme, 
accelerating a number of key projects for the benefit of customers 
and shareholders. 
On 15 April 2015 Pennon acquired Bournemouth Water, a top 
performing water company which is an excellent fit with South 
West Water. The acquisition provides an opportunity to expand 
South West Water’s wholesale capabilities whilst driving synergistic 
and best practice operations. The combined business will 
provide an enhanced platform for innovation and growth ahead of 
market liberalisation.
Bournemouth is one of the highest performing water only companies 
in the UK across a range of indicators with outstanding customer 
service reflected in its Service Incentive Mechanism (SIM) scores.
In accordance with current legislation an automatic merger reference 
has been made to the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). 
A decision on the merger is expected to be received from the CMA 
within its usual timescales.
Report from the  
Chief Executive,  
South West Water
Overview
South West Water’s enhanced business plan, track record of 
efficiency and outperformance makes the company well placed 
to deliver the new 2015-2020 (K6) regulatory contract and we will 
have an opportunity to beat the assumed returns on equity. 
Chris Loughlin 
Chief Executive,  
South West Water
14 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, South West Water (1)
 Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating Systems
(2)
 Based on current published Construction Output Price Index (COPI)
(3)
 South West Water net debt/regulatory capital value.
Business performance
As anticipated South West Water’s revenue for 2014/15 was 
impacted by the tariff freeze announced last year. However 
good cost control, the continued delivery of cost efficiency 
and lower financing costs has resulted in an increase of 
£5.4 million in profit before tax and exceptional items to 
£167.9 million.
Despite the tariff freeze, revenue increased marginally 
by 0.4% to £522.2 million driven by increased customer 
demand and new connections, offset by the effects of 
customers switching to a metered tariff. 7,600 new customer 
connections contributed £2.8 million of additional revenue. 
Customer demand was 0.9% higher than last year reflecting 
the drier weather over the summer and some relatively 
benign months over winter 2014/15. Customers switching 
from unmeasured to metered or assessed charges reduced 
revenue by £4.8 million. The impact of this is reducing as the 
number of customers left to switch falls. 79% of South West 
Water’s customers are now metered.
South West Water remained ahead of target in delivering 
the required operating cost efficiencies for K5. Cumulatively 
the efficiency delivered over K5 is 11% ahead of target 
reflecting the benefit of front-end loading delivery in the K5 
period. Annual operating costs are £27.3 million lower as 
a consequence, with £5.1 million cost savings delivered 
in 2014/15.
Cost efficiencies are being achieved through South West 
Water’s ongoing improvement programmes with specific 
initiatives this year in the areas of:
• asset investments and improvements supporting the 
PUROS programme
(1)
 – now finalised
• energy procurement and usage – continued energy 
efficiency schemes alongside additional power generation 
through renewable sources
• restructuring of defined benefit pension schemes
• right-sourcing and innovative contracting – tendering 
to achieve the ‘right price’ including in-sourcing and 
renewed K6 key and strategic contracts.
Capital expenditure in the year was broadly in line with 
last year at £145.1 million (2013/14 £141.6 million). A key 
element of the programme was the acceleration of K6 
projects into 2014/15 to deliver early benefits to customers 
and the environment. This includes asset enhancements 
to deliver bathing water quality, investments targeting 
wastewater compliance and preparatory expenditure on the 
innovative new water treatment works for Plymouth and its 
surrounding area.
The focus for the final year of the K5 programme was 
weighted towards the maintenance of existing assets, 
increasing infrastructure resilience and delivering 
environmental improvements. Investments during the 
year included:
• safeguarding high quality drinking water through the 
completion of upgrades at two key water treatment works
• upgrades at wastewater sites to improve compliance
• innovative investments to reduce the number of 
customers’ properties previously highlighted as at risk 
from flooding.
Through focused planning, innovative scoping and asset 
solutions and efficient delivery, capital expenditure for K5 
is lower than the Capital Incentive Scheme baseline
(2)
 and 
achieved 6% outperformance against the capital expenditure 
assumed within the 2009 Final Determination. Regulatory 
capital value at 31 March 2015 was £2,928 million. With 
an increase in net debt, this has led to gearing
(3)
 of 62% 
(2014 56%) – within Ofwat’s optimum range for K5 and 
below the notional ratio assumed for K6 of 62.5%.
Strategic review
 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2015 15
Strategic 
overview
South West 
Water
Viridor Group Governance Financial 
statements Strategic review Continued
Pure Water 
Drinking water quality 
South West Water’s performance for mean zonal compliance 
– the industry standard for drinking water quality – remains 
strong. There was a very slight fall in this year’s score 
reflecting the tightening of European Union standards. 
Further targeted investment is being made in treatment 
assets and processes. 
Significant capital schemes were completed during the year. 
These included the combined £14.5 million of investment in 
water quality improvements at the water treatment works of 
Restormel and Wendron, which together supply around half 
of the population of Cornwall. Ultraviolet treatment was also 
installed at Avon water treatment works in Devon.
South West Water also made significant progress in reducing 
taste, odour and discolouration with the number of customer 
contacts for such issues reaching the lowest level on record.
Water resources 
South West Water customers enjoyed unrestricted drinking 
water supplies for an 18th consecutive year with the 
company’s prior investment in its reservoirs and supply 
network ensuring adequate supplies for the region. 
During 2014/15 investment in the maintenance of reservoirs 
included the completion of spillway improvements at 
the Kennick, Trenchford and Tottiford site in Devon and 
the completion of a £10 million ‘grouting’ scheme at 
Wimbleball Dam. 
The company is confident of being able to achieve a healthy 
surplus of water for the foreseeable future as outlined in its 
Water Resources Management Plan, published June 2014. 
Leakage control 
The amount of water lost through leaks and bursts during 
2014/15 remained in line with South West Water’s target 
of 84 megalitres or less on average per day. In addition 
to improving response times to any network issues, the 
company has been focusing on improving its water pressure 
management capabilities and using advanced diagnostic 
tools to help pre-empt any problems. 
Furthermore, South West Water is targeting improved leak 
detection and increasing its use of innovative technologies in 
the field. Additional training for staff is also helping to deliver 
improvements in this area. 
Upstream Thinking 
South West Water’s award-winning £9 million programme 
of catchment management, ‘Upstream Thinking’, is 
designed to improve raw water quality and natural storage 
in the landscape. Delivered in partnership with a number 
of regional organisations, national park authorities, 
conservation groups, landowners and the farming 
community, the programme involves the restoration of 
moorland and agricultural land using a range of low-cost 
sustainable techniques (for example, ditch-blocking, fencing, 
grassland and habitat management). 
In 2014/15 the company successfully met its five year 
restoration target of 2,000 hectares of dried out peatland 
on Exmoor. In the same time period more than 200 farm 
improvement schemes have also been implemented in 
order to reduce the amount of diffuse pollution entering the 
region’s watercourses. 
16 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, South West Water Pure Service
Customer satisfaction 
Over the last five years South West Water has made 
significant progress in improving its customer service and 
customer satisfaction scores, as measured through SIM 
(Service Incentive Mechanism) and customer satisfaction 
surveys. The 2015 survey showed a 90% customer services 
satisfaction rating, its highest yet. This reflects improvements 
made at both an operational level and in the way the 
company interacts with its customers and responds to any 
issues they may have. 
A key part of South West Water’s strategy for improving 
customer satisfaction is to be proactive in delivering 
information, advice and support. This includes making 
the most of digital communications and new media (for 
example, Webchat, SMS messaging and MyAccount 
online, as well as WaterLive and BeachLive, which provide 
real time information on operational activities and bathing 
water quality), investing in the training and development 
of its customer-facing staff, and ensuring that processes 
for resolving any issues are as integrated and effective 
as possible. 
Moving into the 2015-2020 period the company is also 
making greater use of customer analytics to identify how 
it can further improve the experience customers receive 
and providing them with more opportunities to ‘self serve’ 
through online platforms. 
Affordability 
Water bills in the South West have historically been higher 
than the national average, largely due to the scale of 
environmental investment required to protect the region’s 
coastal waters. 
In 2013 the annual £50 government payment was 
introduced in acknowledgement of this situation. Customers 
have subsequently benefited from plans announced as part 
of South West Water’s Business Plan to 2020 to freeze 
prices for 2014/15 and peg the increase in the average 
household bill at below inflation to 2020.
Furthermore, to help those with affordability issues, 
South West Water continues to offer a range of advice 
and support services. The company was among the 
first to roll out a social tariff (in 2013) and has also taken 
innovative steps to engage its most economically deprived, 
hard-to-reach or vulnerable customers through initiatives 
delivered in partnership with housing associations, 
community organisations, the Citizens' Advice Bureau and 
carers' networks. 
Business customers 
South West Water provides water and wastewater services 
to over 74,000 businesses and other non-household 
customers, around a third of which operate within the 
tourism and agricultural sectors.
The company is currently preparing for the opening of the 
non-household retail market in 2017. In the past year this 
has included the introduction of sector-specific business 
customer specialists and a new series of tariffs for base 
and enhanced levels of service (which came into effect in 
April 2015). The company’s strategy is designed to retain its 
South West business customer base while also exploring 
opportunities for out-of-area growth.
Metering 
79% of South West Water’s customers are now metered 
with 7,489 installations carried out over the past year. This 
represents a high level of overall metering when compared 
to the rest of the industry. 
During 2015-2020 the company aims to increase household 
metering coverage to 85% while also testing the benefits 
of SMART metering through a series of pilots at new 
housing developments.
 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2015 17
Strategic 
overview
South West 
Water
Viridor Group Governance Financial 
statements Strategic review Continued
Pure Environment
Bathing waters
Of the 146 designated bathing waters sampled in the 
South West Water region during the 2014 bathing season, 
145 (99.3%) met or exceeded the European Union’s good 
(mandatory) standard and 126 (86.3%) met the excellent 
(guideline) standard. 
The decline in the number of bathing waters reaching the 
'excellent' standard can be attributed to the wetter weather 
during August.
In preparation for the tighter standards introduced by the 
European Union’s revised Bathing Water Directive – which 
comes into effect in November 2015 – South West Water 
carried out an accelerated £18.9 million programme of 
targeted improvements at key wastewater assets around 
the region. 
Preventing pollution
In the past year South West Water has focused on 
improving its maintenance schedules and procedures while 
using advanced technologies to improve its capabilities 
for wastewater network monitoring and analytics. The 
company’s efforts have been reflected in this year’s figures 
for serious or significant pollutions (Categories 1 and 2), 
which are the lowest they been in the past five years. In 
2014/15 there were three Category 2 (‘significant’) incidents 
(2013/14 10) and no Category 1 (‘serious’) pollution 
incidents (2013 nil). The number of Category 3 (‘minor’) 
incidents has fallen by over a third. While these results are 
favourable, further work is required in order to bring down 
the total number of pollution incidents. 
During 2015-2020 South West Water will carry out further 
investment in its wastewater treatment processes, pumping 
stations and network monitoring. This is expected to be 
complemented by ‘Downstream Thinking’ – a programme 
of work currently being piloted in which wastewater issues 
in urban areas are tackled through a combination of ‘soft’ 
engineering and sustainable techniques. 
Wastewater treatment standards 
Since 2011 South West Water has been focusing on the 
delivery of a programme of improvements at more than 90 
wastewater treatment works as agreed with the Environment 
Agency. Substantial capital investment, together with 
improved working practices, is delivering progress in 
this area. 
The ‘enhanced’ status of South West Water’s Business 
Plan to 2020 has allowed the company to accelerate the 
delivery of a number of key capital schemes. Sites are being 
prioritised for improvement as appropriate and South West 
Water continues to work towards its target of 100% numeric 
compliance by 2020. 
Flooding 
Overall, 2014/15 was a relatively benign year in terms of 
heavy rainfall events. The number of properties flooded 
internally was significantly fewer than the previous year and 
the number of repeat floodings was below the K5 average. 
To help prevent sewer flooding, South West Water invests 
in increased sewer capacity, the separation of storm 
water from the wastewater from properties, and other 
capital schemes. In 2014/15 the company completed a 
£3.5 million scheme to upgrade the sewerage network 
in Truro, Cornwall, and a jointly-funded £2 million flood 
alleviation scheme to protect homes in the Colebrook area 
of Plymouth. 
South West Water continues to work alongside lead local 
flood authorities and other stakeholders to identify best 
practice in the management of excess storm water.
People 
South West Water prides itself on being a responsible 
employer, attaching paramount value to the well-being, 
training, needs and ambitions of its 1,400 employees.
Employee involvement and participation in all aspects of 
business and organisational change is encouraged and 
supported through the company’s ‘People Strategy’, which 
is designed to attract, develop and retain a high calibre 
workforce. In the past year the company has continued 
to deliver skills-based programmes for operational staff, in 
addition to a variety of training and development schemes 
aimed at improving personal and leadership skills. A new 
Finance Development Programme was also implemented 
in order to build knowledge and experience among new 
recruits in the finance teams.
During spring 2015 a series of Director-led ‘roadshows’ were 
held at venues across the region to communicate plans for 
K6 (2015-2020). 
During 2014/15 South West Water’s apprenticeship 
scheme grew with 14 new recruits joining the company 
and bringing the total number of apprenticeships to 61. 
The company has also played a key role in the creation of 
a new University Technical College (UTC), which will help to 
ensure a regionally based talent pool of future scientists and 
engineers. Located in Newton Abbot, Devon, the college will 
open its doors in autumn 2015. 
18 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Report from Chief Executive, South West Water Key relationships
Regulators and others
South West Water actively engages with a wide variety of 
environmental and regulatory stakeholders. The company 
contributes to national policy on developing issues through 
its membership of Water UK, the industry trade body, and 
works with the Consumer Council for Water to ensure that 
customers’ issues and concerns are addressed and a full 
understanding of the company’s activities is maintained.
In preparation for the introduction of competition in the 
non-household retail market in 2017, South West Water 
is playing an active role in the Open Water programme, 
which is responsible for delivering the market architecture 
and implementation of the central market operator. The 
company is a member of the Programme Delivery Board, 
which comprises representatives of customers, regulators, 
incumbent water companies, new market entrants and other 
key stakeholders. 
Procurement and suppliers 
South West Water operates an innovative ‘mixed economy’ 
model to source its capital programme delivery partners. 
This means using a significant number of smaller local 
contractors to provide specialised services as well as 
developing long-term relationships with more major supply 
chain partners. 
The company’s procurement strategy is focused on the 
proactive management of relationships with around 70 key 
and strategic suppliers, which account for the large majority 
of expenditure. South West Water sources all its purchases 
from competitive markets. The company operates strict 
procurement policies, ensuring suppliers adhere to clearly 
defined policies of sustainability and ethical working practice.
WaterShare panel
South West Water’s Business Plan to 2020 included an 
innovative ‘WaterShare’ mechanism. Designed to share the 
benefits of outperformance fairly and transparently between 
customers and shareholders, it will be monitored by an 
independent panel of key stakeholders and regulators. 
In early 2015 recruitment began for panel members 
whose responsibility will be to monitor and evaluate South 
West Water’s performance against its targets for the 
2015-2020 period. 
Outlook 
South West Water’s strong overall performance for the 
K5 period and the success of its Business Plan to 2020 
means the company is making a smooth and confident 
transition into K6. Substantial efficiencies have been made 
and the company continues to focus on innovation, new 
technologies and sustainable solutions to deliver further 
improvements and streamlining across the business. 
For the next regulatory period South West Water’s 
performance will be reported against the eight 
outcomes identified in its Business Plan to 2020 (see 
www.southwestwater.co.uk/waterfuture). The company 
has set itself demanding targets but is well placed to 
deliver for the benefit of customers and shareholders alike. 
Significant investment continues in order to safeguard the 
progress made to date, satisfy regulatory and legislative 
obligations, meet the needs and expectations of customers 
and protect the natural environment. 
For 2015/16 South West Water’s areas of focus include: 
• further investment to improve wastewater treatment 
compliance and safeguard bathing water quality
• ongoing improvements in customer service 
• rigorous cost control and outperformance with the 
highest potential Return on Regulated Equity (RoRE) in 
the sector
• preparation for the opening of the non-household retail 
market in 2017 – this includes governance, structural 
and process changes to ensure compliance with the new 
market code 
• continuing to ensure robust and transparent assurance. 
South West Water is well placed to meet the challenges 
and opportunities of the next regulatory period. The board 
recognises that there are improvements still to be made 
but is confident that through further investment, strong 
leadership and the hard work and dedication of its people, 
South West Water will remain a high performing, sustainable 
and profitable business in the years ahead.
Chris Loughlin 
Chief Executive, South West Water
 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2015 19
Strategic 
overview
South West 
Water
Viridor Group Governance Financial 
statements
