 Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder
In my final report to you as Chairman of Pennon Group 
prior to my retirement following the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM), I can confirm that this has once again been 
a successful year for the Group. I am pleased to be handing 
over to Sir John Parker at a time when Pennon’s subsidiary 
businesses are well positioned for strong future growth.
Since joining the Board 18 years ago there has been a 
significant number of key achievements that have enabled 
the Group to develop and grow to become one of the 
UK’s leading utility and resource management companies. 
Under the guidance of Sir John and the Board, I remain 
confident in the continued success of the Group and its 
long-term prospects.
Business performance 
Group revenue was up by 2.7% to £1,357.2 million and 
profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 1.6% to 
£210.7 million
(1)
. We continue to maintain substantial cash 
resources and facilities to fund our capital programme and 
we ended the year with a record level of over £1.7 billion 
(including £196 million of restricted funds).
South West Water
Once again, I am pleased to report that South West Water 
delivered strong operational and financial performance 
and high standards of customer service. The year saw the 
successful conclusion of the K5 (2010-2015) regulatory 
period and Ofwat’s confirmation of ‘enhanced’ status for 
South West Water’s Business Plan to 2020. South West 
Water subsequently accepted the Final Determination in 
December 2014. I expect this to lead to a tangible financial 
benefit for Pennon. Key projects have been accelerated 
and there is an opportunity to achieve the highest potential 
returns on equity in the sector.
Further details of the company’s performance can be found 
in the Report from the Chief Executive, South West Water on 
pages 14 to 19.
Viridor
Viridor has made excellent progress in delivering its Energy 
Recovery Facility (ERF) business, with operations having 
started at five more ERFs and a further three plants under 
construction. The ERF business is now contributing 
meaningfully to growth in profits and cash flow.
Trading conditions in recycling remained under pressure 
during 2014/15 and, as anticipated, revenue from landfill 
continued to decline. These developments were monitored 
closely by the Board throughout the year. 
I am pleased to confirm to shareholders that, despite the 
challenges, EBITDA
(2)
 increased compared to the previous 
year. Outperformance from the fleet of ERFs more than 
offset the declining trend in landfill and the softening of 
recycling markets.
A full report can be found in the Report from the 
Chief Executive, Viridor on pages 22 to 27.
Dividend 
In March 2015 the Board announced a continuation of its 
dividend policy of year-on-year growth of 4% above RPI 
inflation until 2019/20, reflecting the Board’s confidence in 
the future financial performance of the Group. This amounts 
to a policy for 10 consecutive years (2010-2020) of 4% real 
dividend growth to shareholders. 
We are recommending a final dividend per share of 21.82p, 
which represents a 4.3% increase on last year’s final 
dividend. This will result in a total dividend for the year of 
31.80p, an increase of 4.9% (reflecting March 2015 inflation 
of 0.9%) on the total dividend for 2013/14. Following 
shareholder approval at last year’s AGM, we will again be 
offering a Scrip Dividend Alternative to shareholders in 
respect of the final dividend for which the timetable is given 
on page 158.
Sustainability and governance 
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters are 
integral to the Group’s strategy and business model and the 
Sustainability Committee of the Board continues to oversee 
our performance in maintaining a responsible approach to 
ESG. Our notable achievements during the year include 
landfill restoration and biodiversity protection, completion of 
sustainable catchment schemes, continued high standards 
in bathing water quality and progress made in reducing the 
number of pollution incidents.
Pennon considers fair treatment of its customers, employees 
and other stakeholders to be an important factor in creating 
a sustainable business. The Group has continued to make 
good progress in achieving high standards of customer 
satisfaction, increased levels of employee engagement 
and good community relations. Further information on the 
Group’s approach to sustainability is provided throughout the 
strategic report and in the Sustainability Committee report 
for the year on pages 67 to 69.
The Group’s governance arrangements continue to be 
reviewed annually to ensure we develop and improve our 
governance structures and practices, taking account of 
market developments and new best practice guidance. The 
subsidiary boards have their own governance bodies and 
procedures under the Group framework. Details are set out in 
the Governance section of this report, on pages 54 and 58. 
(1)
 Statutory profit before tax £197.0m.
(2)
 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
8 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic report | Strategic overview Health and safety 
Health and safety continues to be a top priority for us. The 
Group’s boards and senior management teams are highly 
engaged with and supportive of the various initiatives that 
have been introduced throughout the year.
South West Water continuously reviews its policies and 
processes in order to minimise the likelihood of an incident 
and the company remains focused on developing a 
proactive health and safety culture.
Viridor continues to work towards achieving a step change 
in culture and attitudes, built around its ‘Stop & Think’ 
campaigns, and there has been a steadily improving trend 
in health and safety reportable incidents over the last three 
years. Tragically in early June 2015 there was an incident 
which resulted in the sad death of a Viridor employee. Our 
thoughts are with his family, friends and colleagues.
Board developments 
In April 2015 Sir John Parker joined the Board as Deputy 
Chairman and will succeed me as Chairman following the 
AGM this year. Sir John is recognised as one of the most 
experienced and respected business leaders in the UK, and 
his previous background in the utilities and waste sectors 
will be particularly valuable to Pennon and its subsidiary 
companies. I wish him every success with the future 
strategic development of the Group. 
As announced last year, Gerard Connell, the Board’s 
Senior Independent Director, will also stand down following 
the AGM, marking the end of a term of office lasting 12 
years. We would like to thank Gerard for his considerable 
contribution to the Group’s success over the years and wish 
him well in his future endeavours. Gill Rider will become the 
new Senior Independent Director.
During the year we welcomed Neil Cooper to the Board as 
a non-executive director. Neil has become chairman of the 
Audit Committee in succession to Gerard Connell. 
At the end of January we saw the retirement of David 
Dupont after more than 12 years as the Group Director 
of Finance during which he successfully managed the 
financial affairs of the Group through a period of substantial 
development and growth. I am pleased to say that 
Susan Davy, who was finance and regulatory director of 
South West Water, was appointed as David’s successor.
As I prepare to stand down as Chairman of the Group, I 
am confident that I am leaving a strong Board with a broad 
wealth of experience and knowledge that is well placed 
to guide Pennon through its next phase of development 
and growth.
Diversity 
The Board continues to promote equality and diversity 
across the Group. Prior to the year-end we achieved our 
target of 25% female representation. Since then, due to 
Board transition, we have fallen below this level, but I am 
pleased to say we are set to achieve the target once more 
following the retirements that will happen after the AGM.
More information on the Board’s diversity policy can be 
found within the Nomination Committee’s report, on 
page 70.
Outlook 
Our priority continues to be the creation of shareholder value 
through our strategic focus on water and wastewater services, 
and recycling, renewable energy and resource management. 
Early receipt of Ofwat’s Draft Determination by South West 
Water enabled the acceleration of key projects in 2014/15 
that were identified in the company’s business plan for 
K6 (2015-2020). With South West Water’s track record of 
efficiency and outperformance, the company has a strong 
foundation to deliver its business plan and will have an 
opportunity to outperform the assumed returns on equity. 
In addition South West Water is well prepared for, and 
supportive of, industry reform.
Viridor is making excellent progress in developing further 
its ERF business with five ERFs having come on stream in 
the year. These projects and associated contracts already 
contribute to Viridor’s profitability and reflect the realisation 
of a strategy that is expected to contribute c. £100 million to 
Viridor’s EBITDA in 2016/17.
In April 2015 we acquired Bournemouth Water, one of the 
highest performing water-only companies in the UK. The 
Board believes the acquisition will be highly complementary 
to South West Water’s business, subject to clearance from 
the Competition and Markets Authority. Further detail can be 
found in the Report from the Chief Executive, South West 
Water on page 14.
The Group, with long-term financing, continues to be well 
positioned for the future and the Board remains confident 
about the future success of the Group.
Ken Harvey 
Chairman 
Pennon Group Plc 
22 June 2015
DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE PROFIT 
AND DIVIDEND GROWTH
 www.pennonannualreport.co.uk/2015 9
Strategic 
overview
South West 
Water
Viridor Group Governance Financial 
statements
