 Nick Wood
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s statement
We have successfully delivered across 
all strategic pillars in 2015 and we  
look forward to further expansion  
and profitable growth.
14
Pets at Home Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We have seen excellent progress in 
Advanced Nutrition, a product area that 
benefits significantly from the specialist 
knowledge of our highly-trained colleagues 
and where we have a strong market 
presence through our private brand, 
Wainwright’s. We have also seen excellent 
growth in pet services as we rollout  
new vet practices and groom rooms and 
the existing estate continues to mature.  
I am particularly proud of our colleagues 
whose passion for pets mirrors that  
of our customers and helps to keep our 
focus firmly on customer engagement.
Strategic update
Expanding like-for-like growth
VIP club
Our loyalty scheme, VIP club, is a key 
underpin to like-for-like growth and customer 
engagement. Analysing our customers’ 
spend, combined with our knowledge of 
their pet type, breed and age, allows us 
to send personalised marketing offers 
across both Merchandise products and 
Services to grow our share of spend with 
these customers.
VIP club reached 3.2 million members  
at year end, adding 1.2 million members 
during the year, and has over 10.5 million 
pets registered. VIP card swipe rate 
represented 65% of revenues captured  
on store tills in the final quarter of FY15, 
compared with 52% at the end of FY14. 
Although the scheme is still immature, we 
are seeing that VIP members spend more 
with us the longer they are a VIP member.
Encouraging VIP members’ participation in 
vet and grooming services is a significant 
opportunity through which we can grow 
incremental sales. As part of this strategy, 
we successfully launched the VIP Groom 
Room Rewards programme during the year, 
where new VIPs receive a 25% discount  
on a full dog groom and further discount 
vouchers after any subsequent grooms.
 
I am delighted to report on another year of progress as  
we continue to deliver on our targets for growth, with strong 
cash flows allowing us to deliver a dividend payment at the 
top end of our commitment.
Mission and strategy
page 18
Product and pricing
Our annual customer survey continues  
to demonstrate that innovative and unique 
products are highly valued by Pets at Home 
shoppers. To ensure our customers are 
seeing something new and different each 
time they visit, we have continued to 
refresh our product range, changing more 
than 3,100 SKUs (Stock Keeping Units)  
in the year, representing 44% of the  
total range. Of those products refreshed,  
over 40% were private or own labels. 
Range expansion and refreshment within 
Advanced Nutrition is vital for attracting 
new customers, who are often very brand 
loyal, as well as offering innovation and 
choice to our existing customers. We  
added new brands during the year, such  
as Meowing Heads, as well as introducing 
new high protein products, including  
a private label, Evolution Naturally, and 
branded alternative, Aatu. We believe there 
is significant capacity for further growth  
in Advanced Nutrition, through stocking 
additional brands, widening our own brand 
and private label ranges and entering new 
Advanced Nutrition segments. 
During the year we also invested in pricing, 
widening our ranges to create entry price 
products in wild bird food, small animal 
cages and large accessories. In the coming 
year, we will continue to increase product 
breadth with lower entry price products in  
a number of other categories.
Omni-channel
We are on a journey to create a seamless 
shopping experience, giving our customers 
access to a wide product range whether 
they wish to shop in-store, order online, 
receive their delivery at home or, as is 
becoming increasingly popular, collect  
at their convenience in our stores.
During the year, the development of  
our exclusive online-only product range 
increased nearly four-fold, taking our online 
product range to more than 11,500 SKUs, 
an uplift of more than 4,400 to those 
in-store. All of the extended range can be 
ordered for pickup in-store with no delivery 
charge. Our Click & Collect and Deliver To 
Store services have been key contributors 
to omni-channel sales, representing over 
40% of online revenues in the final quarter. 
As part of developing a seamless shopping 
experience, we implemented the JDA 
supply chain system in both our distribution 
centres, which provides a unified view of 
product across the Group. We also recently 
launched a dedicated mobile version of  
our website. 
In the year ahead, we will invest in the 
omni-channel shopping experience through 
a number of strategic initiatives. We will 
launch an App for VIP customers which,  
in its first phase, will give members an 
electronic copy of their loyalty card and 
enable promotions and offers to be 
scanned, removing the need to bring 
vouchers into store. We are rolling out Wifi 
across our estate so that ordering from our 
extended online range can be facilitated  
by colleagues on PetPads or by customers 
using their own devices. Ordering from  
the extended range whilst in-store will also 
become significantly easier, as we install 
‘order in store’ kiosks and develop digital 
screens to showcase our extended range. 
We will also be investing in richer online 
content and imagery, and additional 
colleagues and systems to support the 
seamless shopping strategy.
We are actively evaluating opportunities  
to further develop and extend our online 
business organically and through bolt-on 
acquisitions. Our focus remains on  
building the UK’s leading Pet focussed 
omni-channel business whilst securing 
appropriate returns for shareholders.
15
Strategic report Financial statements Governance report
Overview | Strategy | Performance Chief Executive’s statement 
continued
Services
Retrofitting of veterinary practices and 
Groom Rooms to existing stores increases 
like-for-like Merchandise sales by 
enhancing our overall proposition, driving 
store footfall and enabling cross-selling  
of products. Retrofitting vet practices  
also offsets a portion of our store property 
costs through a service charge to the 
practice for the space occupied. During  
the year, just over half of both vet practice 
and Groom Room openings were retrofits 
into the existing store estate, converting 
the equivalent square footage of more than  
six stores into services.
We also commenced a number of strategic 
initiatives in the Vet Group, to increase 
like-for-like growth in our existing Joint 
Venture practice network. These included 
space extensions to our more mature 
practices, our first trials of 24/7 opening 
and extended hours, and the development  
of our pet care plans to increase  
customer loyalty and spend.
Engagement
Colleague expertise and engagement  
is central to our success, creating a  
great shopping experience for customers 
and their pets. Our specialist colleagues 
continue to learn and develop with us, 
allowing us to maintain our industry  
leading retention rate of 81% (FY14: 81%). 
Engagement levels, which we measure 
through an annual colleague survey, 
improved to 94% (FY14: 93%).
During the year, customer advocacy 
measured by a Net Promoter Score, 
improved again to 86% (FY14: 84%),  
having risen from 75% in FY11.
Marketing
We returned to TV advertising this year, 
through the launch of the ‘My Pet Moments’ 
campaign, which features crowd sourced 
clips of our customers’ pets, as well as 
sponsoring ‘For The Love Of Dogs’, one of 
ITV’s highest rating programmes. Our Vet 
Group also participated in TV advertising 
under the Vets4Pets brand. We will 
continue to invest in our brands and new 
customer acquisition in the coming year. 
Space rollout and footprint development
A key part of the Group’s strategy is to 
increase the number of stores, in-store and 
standalone veterinary practices, and Groom 
Room salons. We finished the year with 
400 stores; opening 25 new stores, closing 
one end of lease store, and temporarily 
closing our Rugby store which will relocate 
in the first half of FY16. We are becoming 
increasingly space efficient with new 
stores, our FY15 openings had smaller 
ground floor footprints, with 60% receiving 
a mezzanine floor installation. 
We opened 61 vet practices in FY15, 
bringing the total portfolio to 338. Over half 
of our store estate now has a vet practice 
and we remain committed to working 
towards our eventual target of 90% of 
stores with a vet practice. Since the 
financial year end, we have commenced our 
entry into the specialist referral veterinary 
care market, acquiring Northwest Surgeons 
based in Cheshire. The practice specialises 
in orthopaedic, soft tissue and spinal 
surgery and internal medicine. Northwest 
Surgeons will continue to operate as a 
stand-alone brand and business within  
our practice network and we will seek to 
develop a shared ownership model, similar 
to our joint venture model. We will look  
to build upon our entry into the specialist 
referral veterinary market with further 
standalone acquisitions.
Groom Room openings progressed 
strongly, with 50 new salons, taking the 
total number of Groom Rooms to 179.
The performance and returns of new 
stores, vet practices and Groom Rooms 
remain in line with our expectations.
Looking forward, we plan to open at least 
20–25 Pets at Home stores, 50–55  
vet practices and 55–60 Groom Rooms  
in the coming financial year. We will also  
open five Barkers stores, moving to a phase 
of trialling the concept in other locations 
across the UK. Barkers is our dog focused 
local high street format, currently based  
in one location in Wilmslow, Cheshire. 
Barkers offers premium and exclusive 
products, a high end grooming spa and has 
differentiated brands and merchandising  
to those available in Pets at Home. In its 
first year of opening, Barkers of Wilmslow 
has exceeded our expectations and we 
view the format as an important strategic 
asset that reaffirms our specialist 
credentials in the pet market, giving us 
access to a valuable customer segment. 
Focus on margins
Advanced Nutrition growth and own brand 
participation are supportive to Merchandise 
gross margin, which expanded by 19bps  
to 56.3% in FY15 (FY14: 56.1%).
 
Own brand and private label products 
represented 42.6% of store revenues 
during FY15 (FY14: 42.4%). 
Advanced Nutrition revenues grew by  
17.2% to £145.4m (FY14: £124.0m),  
with our private label brand Wainwright’s  
an important contributor, growing by  
44.1% to £40.1m (FY14: £27.8m). 
Wainwright’s growth has been boosted  
by new additions such as Grain Free for 
dogs and Wainwright’s for cats, which were 
launched in H2 FY14, alongside Grain Free 
for cats which launched in FY15. Advanced 
Nutrition now represents 40% of total  
Food revenues (FY14: 38%).
Services gross margin, which was 32.6%  
in FY15 (FY14: 26.3%), has expanded 
through the growing maturity of our 
veterinary practices and incremental 
synergies from the integration of 
Vets4Pets, which was acquired in FY14.  
We also saw good gross margin expansion 
in our grooming business through its 
growing maturity and measures taken to 
improve profitability across the portfolio.
16
Pets at Home Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Mission and strategy
page 18
Making our entry into  
the referral market
Our Vet Group operates the largest small 
animal first opinion veterinary practice 
network in the UK.
 
Within the veterinary services market, 
there will be complex patient cases  
which require treatment that cannot be 
met within first opinion practice and need 
to be referred to a specialist practice. 
 
We recently made our entry into  
the specialist referral market, acquiring 
Northwest Surgeons based in Cheshire. 
Northwest Surgeons specialises  
in orthopaedic, soft tissue and spinal 
surgery, and internal medicine. This 
is an important strategic move for us  
as it offers an opportunity to capture  
an additional segment of the market.  
It also means we can further support  
our Joint Venture Partners with additional 
expertise from within the Group, 
underlining our commitment to quality.
Northwest Surgeons will continue to 
operate as a stand-alone brand and 
business within our practice network  
and we will seek to develop a shared 
ownership model, similar to our joint 
venture model, in the future.
Looking forward, we will continue to  
drive Advanced Nutrition growth and 
participation in the Food business.  
Whilst we will broaden our own brand  
and private label ranges to ensure we  
offer great value to customers, we will  
not seek to increase their participation at 
the expense of the brands our customers 
are loyal to. Within our higher operating 
margin Services business, as our vet 
practices mature there is an opportunity  
for our revenue stream to increase  
without a significant rise in our cost base, 
delivering margin leverage. Whilst the 
Groom Room business is also maturing, 
the large number of new openings in  
the past and coming year will continue  
to moderate margin improvement within 
Services in the short term.
Investing in the organisation
Our business has grown significantly  
in recent years and we are continuing  
to rollout our stores and services at  
a fast pace. We see significant growth 
opportunities across the Group and  
have therefore decided to implement  
a new management structure to drive 
performance across the business.  
Ian Kellett will take up a new role as  
CEO of the Retail Division. Sally Hopson, 
previously Customer and People Director 
and CEO of our Vet Group, will take  
on an enhanced role as the CEO of  
the Services Division. Both will report  
to Nick Wood who, as Group CEO, will 
continue to focus on overall Group 
operations and strategy. 
The search for a new Group CFO is  
starting with immediate effect. During  
this process, Ian Kellett will remain  
as CFO and commence the transition  
to his new role. 
Nick Wood
Chief Executive Officer
3 June 2014
Specialist veterinary referrals
17
Strategic report Financial statements Governance report
Overview | Strategy | Performance
