 6  Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chairman’s Statement
The coming financial year should see further
improvement as we reduce the breadth of our
activities, build on areas of strength and focus
on improving both the pace of change and
operational effectiveness.
The improvement in Group profitability is pleasing, especially in a year which has
proved to be testing for British manufacturing. In particular, both our Terrazzo and
Access Flooring businesses performed strongly, whilst the Ceramics business,
which continues to operate in a highly competitive market, made satisfactory
progress following the losses made in the previous year.
Results
Profit before tax and exceptional items was £1.0 million compared to £0.7 million
in the previous financial year. Profit before tax after exceptionals has increased to
£0.8 million compared to a loss of £1.3 million in the year to 31 March 2001.
Exceptional costs and write-offs totalling £2.0 million, which severely affected last
year’s results, have been reduced to £164,000, which includes redundancy costs
of £110,000 following the introduction of the new kiln technology.
Group turnover of £33.5 million has fallen from the previous period of £34.2 
million. The background to the trading performance of our individual activities is
detailed in the Chief Executive’s Review.
The Group’s balance sheet remains satisfactory. Total borrowings were £3.1 
million (reduced from £5.2 million in 2001) and gearing has fallen to 21.9% 
(2001: 40.2%). This lower level of gearing reflects a strongly positive cash flow 
performance but is in part due to the final payments, amounting to £1.3 million 
for the small tile kiln, having not yet been made.
H A (Tony) Palmer, Chairman Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002  7
all our shareholders are kept
informed. We reiterate that no firm
offers have been received in respect
of this land and that we continue to
operate our floor tile manufacturing
facility there as usual. 
We also announced our intention to
apply to transfer the listing of the
Company’s issued share capital to
the Alternative Investment Market
(AIM). This process was completed
on 25 April 2002. We believe that 
an AIM listing offers significant 
advantages to both the Company
and its shareholders, including 
potential cost savings and flexibility.
Dividend
As indicated at the half year, the
repayment of debt is a high priority
and we have not declared a 
dividend. We are currently part way
through a corporate restructuring
programme designed to simplify our
corporate structure and this is
explained in more detail in the
Finance Director’s Review. It is 
anticipated that this process will 
be finalised before publication of 
our interim results for the six months
ending 30 September 2002. Subject
to the capital reduction programme
described in the Directors’ Report
taking effect, the Board intends to
resume payment of dividends when
satisfied that the business recovery is
sufficient and consolidated.
Management and Employees
We have previously notified 
shareholders of the appointment of
Mark Hesketh to the Board as Group
Finance Director and Company
Secretary last September and 
welcomed David Booth’s 
continuation on the Board as a 
non-executive Director.
This year has not been an easy one
following the unsettling elements of
the previous financial year. Our
employees have shown considerable
forbearance for which we would
thank them, as well as for their hard
work and commitment.
Statement of Prospects
We continue to work towards 
securing real trading improvements,
following a year in which some
progress was made. The coming
financial year should see further
improvement as we reduce the
breadth of our activities, build on
areas of strength and focus on
improving both the pace of change
and operational effectiveness.
Strategy
As noted in last year’s annual report,
management is focused on resolving
the issues which have affected the
business in recent years. We 
continue to review our manufacturing
operations in order to ensure that we
are able to realise the benefits from
recent investment, particularly that
made in our ceramic manufacturing 
technology.
Although the Group has returned to
profitability, the supply and fix 
business again made a loss and it
has been decided that we should
withdraw from this activity due to the
difficulties encountered in recent
periods and to reduce the Group’s
exposure to the risks associated with
this business. This action will also
allow increased focus on our core
businesses. Consequently, no further
long term work is being sought by
Quiligotti Contracts Limited and it is
planned that we will complete those
contracts to which we are currently
committed within the next twelve
months.
Shareholders will have noted the
announcements made during the
year with regard to our freehold site
in Poole. In particular, on 25 March,
we released the results of the 
professional valuations of that site 
to ensure that, following my 
comments in last year’s annual
report and recent press speculation,
Terrazzo floors are practical, hardwearing and very
easy to clean. Renowned for their durability, with proper
care, Terrazzo floors will outwear many other flooring
materials.
Dorset Tessella, a range of mosaic borders, panels
and patterns complementing standard Dorset floor tiles,
offers a convenient and simple way of achieving
authentic Victorian floor designs.
Porcelain Floor Tiles: unglazed mingles, granites and
solid colours are exceptionally durable and frost proof.
