 8  Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s Review Overview
Quiligotti Terrazzo and Quiligotti Access
Flooring reported record profits. Pilkington’s
Tiles went through a year of considerable
change and achieved a modest improvement
in profitability.
Introduction
Operational performance across the Group presented a mixed picture in 2001-
2002. Quiligotti Terrazzo and Quiligotti Access Flooring reported record profits.
Pilkington’s Tiles went through a year of considerable change and achieved a 
modest improvement in profitability. Quiligotti Contracts, the supply and fix 
business, reached its targeted level of sales but continued to be hampered by
claims relating to past work, and despite a far more professional approach, 
again returned a loss. A year ago we said that the contribution and benefit to be
derived from each constituent part of the Group would be considered with care:
in light of this it has been decided to close Quiligotti Contracts Limited during the
next twelve months. 
Group operating profits before exceptional items have risen by 27% (£296,000)
due to improvements in all three continuing businesses, despite turnover having
fallen by 2% (£746,000). This fall was primarily the result of action taken in
Pilkington’s Tiles to eliminate marginal business.
Mary-Lorraine Hughes, Group Chief Executive Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002  9
Chief Executive’s Review Terrazzo
To be able to report a record profit
year is gratifying. The operational
actions taken, as anticipated in last
year’s report, the appointment of a
new Sales Director last September,
strong production performance 
levels, and by no means least the
continuing support of our key 
customers, have all contributed to
this achievement. 
The new slip resistant terrazzo 
system of riven textured tile and 
penetrating seal was launched at last
October’s Built Environment
Exhibition in London, and has 
generated very significant interest.
This has not diminished the profile 
of our traditional terrazzo product
which won the 2001 ‘Contract
Floors’ Supplier Award in the marble
and terrazzo category.
A considerable amount of work is
being devoted to rejuvenating 
interest in terrazzo for use in 
non-retail environments and 
achieving novel installations will be 
a particularly important priority for
the coming year. This initiative is
being assisted by the new ‘Terrazzo
Naturals’ collection, which exploits
the contemporary demand for 
materials such as limestone and
soapstone, by suspending small 
marble and granite aggregates in
natural coloured grounds.
A record profit year. The operational actions
taken, strong production performance and
the continuing support of our key customers
have all contributed to this achievement.
Bespoke Service An almost infinite 
variety of designs and special effects
can be created with our bespoke 
sampling service. This allows the client
to mix and match their own colours 
for a totally individual look.
Terrazzo Tiles pressing operation.
Terrazzo
2002 2001
£’000 £’000
Sales 4,768 4,184
Operating profit before 1,146 986
exceptional items
Exceptional items - (218)
Operating profit 1,146 768 10  Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s Review Access Flooring
A record profit year for the Access
Flooring business was achieved by
the professional management of this
particular market sector against a
background of increasing pressure
on margins.
This has resulted from Access
Flooring’s ability to satisfy the various
requirements of our clients, by 
offering Quilfloor 600, a traditional
steel encapsulated product,
Microfloor 600, an extremely 
competitive alternative and the Intec
range which allows hard finishes
such as marble, ceramic and 
hardwood to be factory applied to
the panels. In addition, diversification
into the hardwood flooring sector
has proved to be successful and is
targeted as a growth area.
The consistently strong performance
of this business encourages further
investment in its careful expansion
whilst maintaining strict operational
and cost control: this encapsulates
the plan for the coming year.
A record profit year was achieved by the 
professional management of this market 
sector. The consistently strong performance
of this business encourages further 
investment in its’ careful expansion.
Intec panels: factory-bonded with 
polished porcelain ceramic tiles 
providing a clean, modern, 
flexible working environment.
Microfloor 600 benefits from the small 
number of components employed in 
its construction, there are no metallic 
parts contained in the basic system 
eliminating the possibility of corrosion 
or delamination,
Access Flooring
2002 2001
£’000 £’000
Sales 3,106 3,470
Operating profit before 464 378
exceptional items
Exceptional items - -
Operating profit 464 378 Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002  11
The 6% decline in ceramic tile sales
reflects not only a tough marketplace,
exacerbated by the continuing
strength of sterling but also the 
deliberate decision not to pursue less
profitable business. This, together
with the planned remedial actions
referred to in last year’s report, has
had a positive impact and turned last
year’s pre-tax loss into a profit. 
The new wall tile kiln at the
Manchester factory, the full 
commissioning of which was delayed
by structural faults is now performing
at close to targeted levels and is
expected to contribute positively to
our ability to flex and respond to 
customer requirements. 
We now have a far more effective and
responsive warehouse and 
distribution organisation, which has
been acknowledged by a number of
our customers. They have also seen
greater analysis of sales data and
market feedback which allows for
more targeted initiatives. 
However, a considerable amount
remains to be accomplished, such
as:
u even tighter cost control to offer 
more competitive pricing: This 
means a more rigorous approach 
within all operational areas 
including production and 
purchasing. 
u the development of more 
targeted product ranges offering 
real value for money, consisting of 
fewer line items and with range 
specific marketing: The new 
‘Directions’ wall tile collection, 
illustrated within this report, 
reflects this requirement perfectly 
and is already selling well. 
u ongoing product range 
rationalisation: In the past year 
about a third of the items in the 
portfolio have already been 
discontinued or earmarked for 
retirement.
u a more comprehensive portfolio:
Products which cannot be 
manufactured are being sourced. This 
area of activity is already showing 
positive signs for development.
u adjusting sales team responsibilities: 
‘Sector champions’ will be
concentrating on each route to market 
including distribution, multiple
retail, housebuilding, industrial and 
commercial specification. A new Sales 
Director is currently being sought, for 
the Ceramic business, to pursue this 
focused approach further.
Our clear intent is not only to grow the tile
business, but to further improve its 
profitability. Some areas of business where
margins have become increasingly slim
have been deliberately reduced or 
eliminated. This contributed to 
disappointing third quarter sales levels, 
but in the fourth quarter of the year
turnover was far more positive. 
The planned remedial actions and the 
decision not to pursue less profitable 
business have had a positive impact and
turned last year’s pre-tax loss into a profit.
‘Versatile’: extremely durable frost and
slip resistant unglazed floor tiles for 
both interior and exterior use.
Chief Executive’s Review Ceramics
Ceramics
2002 2001
£’000 £’000
Sales 21,715 23,058
Operating profit before 566 447
exceptional items
Exceptional items (110) (1,216)
Operating profit/(loss) 456 (769) 12  Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s Review Supply and Fix
We have continued to experience problems
and, after careful consideration, it has been
decided to withdraw from this activity.
Quiligotti Terrazzo tiles floor 
Liverpool Street Station
Supply and Fix
2002 2001
£’000 £’000
Sales 4,239 3,863
Operating loss before (156) (92)
exceptional items
Exceptional items (54) (353)
Operating loss (210) (445)
The supply and fix business has
again returned a loss as we 
continued to experience problems
achieving acceptable margins 
commensurate with the significant
risks and levels of investment 
associated with this activity.
After careful consideration it has
been decided that we will largely
withdraw from this activity during the
next financial year. This will allow us
to increase our focus on and support
for our other businesses, notably
Quiligotti Access Flooring which 
continues to develop.
This decision will unfortunately 
mean the potential loss of about 
20 jobs over the next year, but it is
hoped that a number of people 
can be employed in other areas of
the Group.
At present Quiligotti Contracts
Limited fixes less than 10% of the
Terrazzo tiles manufactured by
Quiligotti Terrazzo, which of course
will no longer be possible. However,
management will work closely with
key tile installers to ensure that 
future sales of Terrazzo tiles are 
fully supported. Pilkington’s Tiles Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002  13
Chief Executive’s Review Conclusion
Conclusion
Our product and service portfolio is
being honed to closely reflect the
aesthetic and functional needs of the
market and to offer real value.
Not only will we continue to benefit
from the specialist skills within the
Group, but will also further exploit
the potential synergies between
Group products in specific areas of
the continuing businesses. This
approach will be underlined by the
opening of our new showroom this 
summer. The new location at the
Building Centre in London, will 
showcase all Group products and
services, will provide a suitable 
environment for meeting existing
customers, and is ideally situated to
interest new clients.
Our priorities for all the businesses
will be to:
u reduce the cost base of all our 
activities more aggressively and 
thereby: 
u offer increasing value for money 
enabling us to:
u respond very specifically to 
customer requirements.
Dorset Tetra: attractive slip resistant floor tiles,
ideal for wet zones, changing areas, food 
processing areas and light industrial 
applications.
Main picture
Directions Rustic Collection: the honest
charm of stone lifted by a hint of mineralised
sparkle, enhanced by harmonious mosaics.
