 PLEX US H O LDIN GS PL C ANN U AL REP O RT 2 0 1 5
OUR VISION
To build Plexus into a leading international 
wellhead engineering company supplying POS-
GRIP friction-grip technology as the best in 
class and safest wellhead equipment across 
exploration, production and subsea. 
 
 
OUR STRATEGY
A ccelerate the adoption of POS-GRIP technology 
by the wider oil and gas market through organic 
growth, global expansion, forming strategic 
partners and licencing agreements as well as new 
product development and innovation to generate 
additional revenue streams.
 
PLEXUS A T A GLANCE 4
DRIVE CLIENT LOYALTY 
 
 
 
CHALLENGING EXISTING WELLHEAD STANDARDS  
MATCHING PREMIUM COUPLINGS STANDARDS 
 
INCREASE RENTALS + SALES + LICENCING 
DEVELOP ECONOMIES OF SCALE
LEVERAGING GROUP SKILLS  
BUILDING PLEXUS BRAND  
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY  
DEVELOPING PEOPLE  
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  
BEST IN CLASS TECHNOLOGY 
SAFER + COST EFFECTIVE
NEW PRODUCTS   GLOBAL EXPANSION    SALES PRODUCTION WELLHEADS 
CORE RENTAL EXPLORATION WELLHEADS
PLEXUS 
BUSINESS MODEL
 PLEXUS’ BUSINESS MODEL
P lexus  operates a rental supply business 
model for its proprietary POS-GRIP® wellhead 
equipment primarily for the exploration jack-
up market,  sells into the production wellhead 
market and will soon rent  and sell  into the 
subsea wellhead market.  Central to Plexus’ 
revenue  business model is R&D and new 
product innovation. Recent examples include 
the launch of the Python Subsea wellhead, POS-
GRIP Connector and Marine Risers.  Plexus  is 
also looking to accelerate its global expansion 
through licencing and strategic partnerships. 
 
 Plexus has a strong and experienced Board and 
management structure with which to drive growth. 
Our Board has a diverse skill set allowing each 
member to help deliver on Plexus’  vision which is 
to be at the forefront of wellhead technology and 
establish our patented and best in class POS-
GRIP technology as a new industry standard for 
wellhead design, thanks to its products which 
offer multiple benefits and advantages in terms 
of improved safety, functionality, operational 
efficiency, and cost and time savings.
238506 Plexus p001-p009.indd   4 10/11/2015   23:46 PLEX US H O LDIN GS PL C ANN U AL REP O RT 2 0 1 5
5
 GLOBAL EXPANSION
We continue to receive enquiries from across 
the globe from oil and gas operators that are 
considering POS-GRIP technology for its unique 
technical, safety and time saving capabilities.  
Expanding from our dominant position in the 
North Sea into new geographical areas is central 
to our growth strategy, especially at a time when 
the North Sea is under pressure from a low oil 
price.    Our primary revenue stream is derived 
from our POS-GRIP friction grip wellhead systems 
for jack-up drilling exploration activities.  In terms 
of sales achieved during financial year 2015, a 
strong performance was seen in Europe which, 
excluding the UK, grew 110% and accounted for 
51% of sales as compared to the UK North Sea 
which grew by 7% and accounted for 37% of 
sales.  Sales in the rest of world accounted for 
12% of sales, of which Asia comprised 9.2% an 
increase of 22% against last year.
AMERICA S
EUROPE 
We secured our first 
contract with a South 
American company C ardon 
IV (a 50:50 joint venture 
between eni and Repsol) 
for an exploration well in 
Venezuela.
This was our largest growth region 
in terms of revenues for 2015, 
comprising of Norway, Denmark, and 
the Netherlands. It represented a 51% 
share with the majority of contract wins 
being secured in Norway.  With our 
headquarters in Aberdeen, where we 
have recently doubled our operational 
capacity, Europe will continue to remain 
a focus for Plexus and POS-GRIP North 
Sea contract wins.
UK CS
A USTRALA SIA
A SIA & RUSSIA
We have successfully 
secured a leading market 
share of the HP/HT 
exploration wellhead jack-
up in the North Sea region 
supplying our POS-GRIP 
equipment to many of the 
leading oil and gas operators 
that operate in the area.
We have identified these 
as regions with significant 
growth potential. We have 
an active dialogue with 
regards to licencing and 
strategic partnerships 
to help accelerate the 
deployments of POS-GRIP 
in these regions including 
the Jereh Chinese licencing 
agreement in July 2015.
RE GIONAL  B A SES
HEADQU AR TERS
LICENCING A GREEMENT
PERCENT A G E OF GROUP 
REVENUE S ALES FY 
2015
GOM
The Gulf of Mexico 
accounts for the 
majority of oil and 
gas production 
on the Outer 
Continental Shelf. 
The proposed 2017-
2022 offshore lease 
programme is also 
projected to unlock 
approximately 80 
percent of estimated 
undisco v e red 
technically 
recoverable oil and 
gas resources on the 
OCS.
In 2014, Plexus secured 
its third POS-GRIP supply 
contract in the Australian 
region.  IBISWorld has 
forecast revenues of $40.3 
billion for the Australian oil 
and gas industry for 2015 and 
expects a growth rate of 12.8 
per cent year on year, with 
revenues expected to jump to 
$45.4 billion for 2016.
238506 Plexus p001-p009.indd   5 10/11/2015   23:46 PLEX US H O LDIN GS PL C ANN U AL REP O RT 2 0 1 5
POSGRIP / 
PRODUCT OFFERING
6
POS-GRIP Technology is a patented method of engineering which 
has the potential for a wide range of applications both within 
and outside the oil and gas industry.  For the upstream oil and 
gas markets POS-GRIP has been developed to deliver a method of 
wellhead engineering which is safer, faster and more cost effective to 
use for drilling activities across exploration, production and subsea. 
POS-GRIP TECHNOLOGY AND HG® SEALS
POS-GRIP is based on two very simple engineering 
concepts – elasticity of materials and friction.  
Every object moves a small amount when a force 
is applied to it, and POS-GRIP uses this to flex a 
high pressure body in and out within the elastic 
range.
In wellheads, POS-GRIP can replace the 
conventional load shoulder or slips to create a 
high-load hanger support mechanism which is 
adjustable, full-bore, fully elastic, and provides 
instant, high-capacity lockdown.
HG  seals are robust metal-to-metal seals which 
can be machined directly into the hanger, and 
are energised by use of an external POS-GRIP 
mechanism.  External activation results in direct 
control of contact stresses at the sealing surface, 
leading to exceptional reliability and repeatability.  
This simple and elegant sealing mechanism has 
been qualified for X-HPHT service using validation 
criteria well above and beyond standard industry 
seal performance verification requirements. 
POS-GRIP Technology and HG seals have already 
been applied to a wide range of wellhead and 
connector products, where the simplicity of the 
system results in robust products which are 
safer to operate, cheaper to install and offer 
unprecedented integrity for the life of field.
PLEXUS 
POS-GRIP® TECHNOLOGY 
238506 Plexus p001-p009.indd   6 10/11/2015   23:46 PLEX US H O LDIN GS PL C ANN U AL REP O RT 2 0 1 5
7
POS-GRIP  EXPLORATION 
WELLHEAD SYSTEMS 
Well integrity and safety is critical when drilling 
exploration wells. Plexus has pioneered the 
use of a ‘through the BOP’ wellhead systems 
for jack-up exploration drilling.  A welcome 
benefit from this design philosophy is time 
and cost savings. Our wellhead system saves 
a BOP lift for every casing string installed 
compared to conventional systems. This 
saves one to four days 
down time per well, 
generating significant 
cost reductions, and in 
many cases can make the 
rental cost negative for 
the customer. The systems 
are available from existing 
stock on a rental basis, 
reducing lead times  for 
customers.
TERSUS™ MUDLINE SYSTEMS  
The Plexus range of Tersus Mudline Suspension 
Systems is designed with proactive well 
control and safety in mind. Wherever possible, 
all procedures are carried out under full BOP 
protection, which is sadly not the case with 
most other commercially available systems.
Mudline Systems are often thought of as 
being cheap and simple, but significant 
value can be added through design details 
which enhance safety, create 
savings and reduce risk. For 
example, the Plexus Tersus-
TRT combined TA Cap is safer 
to use and quicker to install 
than multi cap options. The 
Tersus PCT system has the 
potential for huge savings by 
allowing the recovery of HP/
HT exploration wells, and 
enabling pre-drilling of HP/HT 
development wells. 
POS-GRIP HG 
PRODUCTION 
WELLHEADS
Integrity of equipment is 
essential for long term 
production wells, where many 
hundreds of pressure and 
temperature cycles can be 
seen throughout the life of a 
field. POS-GRIP HG Production 
Wellheads are designed and 
tested to meet worst case conditions, and 
provide the safest possible solution during 
drilling and production.
As well as offering the highest standards in 
safety and integrity, HG Production Wellheads 
are designed to be quick and simple to install. 
The through the BOP design combined with 
extremely simple hangers and running tools 
can generate days of time-savings per well.  
The systems are available for sale and require 
minimal maintenance during field life.
SURFACE WELLHEADS
 TERSUS PCT HP/HT 
TIE-BACK 
CONNECTOR 
Our HP/HT up to 20,000 psi 
Tie-Back Connector, is an 
innovative and unique product 
sponsored by Maersk. The 
Tie-Back Connector features 
our metal-to-metal HG seals 
and for the first time allows 
HP/HT exploration and pre-
drilled production wells to be converted to 
either subsea or platform producing wells 
delivering significant savings in terms of 
capital expenditure and the acceleration of 
bringing a well into production. At a time 
when the industry is focusing strongly on 
cost and capex saving opportunities the 
benefits of such an innovative product are 
clear, and we are marketing this product on 
the basis that it is the only method available 
of achieving a remote casing connection with 
the same integrity and capacities as premium 
casing couplings.
238506 Plexus p001-p009.indd   7 10/11/2015   23:46 PLEX US H O LDIN GS PL C ANN U AL REP O RT 2 0 1 5
M2S SUBSEA WELLHEADS
M2S wellheads are designed to be jack-up 
deployed and enable the conversion of pre-
drilled wells using mudline equipment to 
subsea production. M2S systems use POS-
GRIP and HG sealing to provide many of the 
unique safety features and benefits of Plexus’ 
other surface and subsea POS-GRIP products.
M2S benefits from the adjustable nature of 
POS-GRIP to enable Mudline Tieback Tools 
to be easily re-connected to the mudline 
hangers before the strings are precisely 
tensioned and locked into place in the high 
pressure subsea wellhead housing. This saves 
time and reduces the risk of problems, to 
maximise value for our users.
8
PYTHON SUBSEA WELLHEAD
Wellhead equipment is critical for the safe 
drilling and production of subsea wells. Long 
term performance and integrity are crucial, 
due to the remote location of the wellhead. 
Plexus has therefore combined the safety 
and reliability benefits of POS-GRIP and 
HG sealing into a wellhead system which is 
robust and fully tested to meet the conditions 
expected in deepwater and HP/HT wells.
As well as offering the highest standards 
in safety and integrity, the Python subsea 
wellhead is designed to be simple whilst 
delivering instant casing hanger lockdown. 
Many conventional components are 
eliminated, resulting in enhanced reliability 
and fewer trips. Time savings during drilling 
are up to four days in shallow water, and up 
to 12 days per deepwater well, compared to 
conventional systems.
SUBSEA WELLHEADS
POS-SET 
CONNECTOR  
The POS-SET Connector 
is designed to re-connect 
to bare conductor pipe 
for well re-entry or 
permanent abandonment 
operations. It creates 
a solid connection with 
reliable sealing directly 
against the pipe, and 
retains bend and load capabilities at 80% 
of pipe strength, for the safest possible re-
establishment of well control.
POS-SET can accommodate large variations in 
diameter, wall thickness and ovality which can 
be experienced with conductor pipe, while 
creating a direct sealing and load-bearing 
interface. This wide window of operation 
means tieback problems are minimised, 
resulting in more cost-effective operations.
238506 Plexus p001-p009.indd   8 10/11/2015   23:46
