 Good progress was made during 2015 
whilst the Group’s focus was to adapt 
to the changing dynamics in the UK 
construction market recovery, manage 
input cost volatility and availability of our 
prime polymers, and to deliver on our 
growth initiatives, both organically and 
through acquisition.
The strength of the recovery in the 
UK market was considerably more 
mixed than forecasts had projected. In 
particular, lack of strength in the recovery 
of residential repair, maintenance and 
improvement (RMI) activity became more 
evident as the year progressed.
The Group has progressively moved 
towards designing and manufacturing 
more complex systems that enable a 
greater level of specification from our 
customers seeking to meet the needs of 
sustainable construction. The acquisition 
of Nuaire in August 2015 is a significant 
step in that direction, substantially 
enhancing our technical capability in the 
increasingly important area of ventilation. 
Nuaire has an excellent track record and 
has continued to perform well under our 
ownership. We have been cautious not 
to destabilise either the Nuaire business 
or our existing ventilation business, whilst 
we undergo a staged integration process. 
Nuaire’s results are allocated between 
both Residential Piping Systems and 
Commercial and Infrastructure Piping 
Systems – UK in line with the market 
sectors they serve.
Surestop, acquired in January 2015 
also performed well and a considered 
integration programme has enabled an 
excellent level of sales growth as well 
as improved manufacturing margins by 
utilising components and capability from 
other parts of the Group.
Our immediate focus is on deleveraging 
following the Nuaire acquisition, and 
we expect net debt to EBITDA to reduce 
towards 2 times by the end of the 
2016 financial year due to the highly 
cash generative nature of our business. 
We have sufficient financial headroom 
to continue to develop investment 
opportunities and we continue to 
seek compelling “bolt on” acquisition 
opportunities. 
Despite a strong downward trajectory 
in crude oil prices, polymer prices have 
become disconnected from the primary 
feedstocks and displayed quite significant 
volatility during the year. Overall polymer 
prices were lower than during 2014 and 
the majority of this has been passed 
on to customers either in lower prices, 
discounts or as a result of not having 
price increases to cover other inflationary 
effects. Despite some availability concerns 
resulting from the polymer producers 
reducing output, the Group was able to 
source sufficient volumes to meet our 
customers’ demands.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
“I AM CONFIDENT THAT THE MARKET 
FUNDAMENTALS IN OUR MAIN UK MARKET 
REMAIN POSITIVE AND THAT WE ARE 
PURSUING A SOUND STRATEGY FOR THE 
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS”
GROUP REVENUE
£352.9m  
7.9%
UNDERLYING OPERATING 
PROFIT
£54.2m  
17.1%
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Polypipe Group plc
08 In Residential Piping Systems our products 
and systems targeted at delivering carbon 
efficient solutions have performed well, 
primarily in the new build sector where a 
higher specification is increasingly required 
to meet more stringent regulation. We 
conducted a high profile marketing 
campaign for underfloor heating, 
including television advertising fronted by 
leading interior designer, Kelly Hoppen, 
who is a brand ambassador for Polypipe. 
The campaign drove a significant surge 
in traffic to our website stimulating 
consumer demand and increasing the 
number of registered installers.
In Commercial and Infrastructure Piping 
Systems, Government and legislative 
focus on flood alleviation continued 
to drive strong sales growth for our 
comprehensive range of engineered 
water management solutions. We 
delivered a number of significant projects 
during the year helping to design some 
innovative SUDS (sustainable urban 
drainage systems) including the use 
of our 3m diameter pipe as well as 
experiencing a steady increase in demand 
from smaller new build residential sites as 
they commenced development. During 
2015 the Group manufactured solutions 
for more than 700 different projects to 
prevent future flooding. Both our Nuaire 
and our Building Products division were 
recognized for innovative promotional 
campaigns by winning marketing industry 
awards.
We have continued to focus on new 
product development. During the 
period several new products were 
introduced, including an enhanced 
smartphone app based controls system 
for underfloor heating, new controls for 
ventilation, additions to our innovative 
radial ventilation duct system and a 
new surface and sub water treatment 
drainage system. Progressive introduction 
of new products has enabled the Group 
to win an increasing number of high 
profile project specifications and secure 
further penetration into the sectors 
of the construction industry that offer 
opportunities for us to add value. 
We are increasing our commitment to 
customer training. In Doncaster we are 
strengthening our customer training 
capability by enhancing our Northern 
area customer training facility. We 
formally opened our new customer 
training centre in Dubai during October 
2015 which enables us to train our 
customers and demonstrate our full 
capability across a comprehensive range 
of systems. 
Despite cautious sentiment in the Middle 
East region, the majority of construction 
activity we are involved with tends to 
be high profile, state sponsored projects 
which have continued to attract funding. 
Following recent years where flood 
risk has attracted more attention in 
this area, our efforts to help develop a 
specification for storm water attenuation 
with the relevant authorities has led to 
some promising initial orders which have 
been delivered from the UK. We are 
making good progress with our plans 
to manufacture water management 
attenuation cells in the Jebel Ali Free 
Zone in Dubai.
The Group continued to invest in its 
capability to reprocess plastic packaging. 
During the year approximately one 
third of our UK production was based 
on reprocessed polymer making a 
considerable contribution to the circular 
economy with Polypipe one of the 
largest recyclers of household plastic 
waste in the UK. Whilst the recent 
decline in virgin polymer prices has 
made this less financially attractive than 
previously, we are still delivering a good 
return on investment from our plastic 
waste reprocessing plant and believe 
our customers regard it as an important 
factor in their environmentally responsible 
sourcing strategies.
STRATEGIC REPORT Stock Code: PLP polypipe.com
09 The following tables set out Group revenue and underlying operating profit by 
operating segment:
Revenue
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change
%
Residential Piping Systems 182.6 173.3 5.4
Commercial & Infrastructure Piping 
Systems – UK 131.5 111.1 18.4
Inter segment sales (10.2) (9.6)
UK Operations 303.9 274.8 10.6
Commercial & Infrastructure Piping 
Systems – Mainland Europe 50.4 53.9 (6.5)
Inter segment sales (1.4) (1.7)
Group revenue 352.9 327.0 7.9
Operating profit
2015
£m
2014
£m
Change
 %
Residential Piping Systems 32.8 28.4 15.5
Commercial & Infrastructure Piping 
Systems – UK 20.1 17.0 18.2
UK Operations 52.9 45.4 16.5
Commercial & Infrastructure Piping 
Systems – Mainland Europe 1.3 0.9 44.4
Group underlying operating profit 54.2 46.3 17.1
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Residential Piping Systems
Sales to the residential sector were 
£182.6m all of which were in the UK and 
Ireland and represented 50% of Group 
revenues in 2015.
Private residential new build continued 
to be dominated by the national 
housebuilders, with activity levels of 
smaller builders remaining muted. The 
trend toward more building in the regions 
and less reliance on London seen in the 
second half of 2014 carried on through 
2015. Public sector housing starts fell 
8% during the year being impacted by 
budgetary concerns around the extension 
of the ‘right to buy’ scheme and changes 
to social housing rents announced by 
the new Government. Overall new build 
represented 38% of our residential 
revenues (23% of the UK Group) in 
2015.
A combination of factors appear to have 
led to private RMI activity growing less 
quickly than expected. The mortgage 
review tightened lending criteria and 
the targeting of government measures 
towards new builds appears to be 
suppressing what would normally be 
a higher level of second hand housing 
transactions at this stage of the recovery. 
Both levels of remortgaging and the 
number of housing transactions have 
traditionally been a primary driver 
for major residential project works 
that benefits Polypipe. Both of these 
indicators have remained relatively muted 
and well below long term averages.
Residential piping systems delivered an 
underlying operating profit of £32.8m, 
an increase of 15.5% over the prior year. 
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Polypipe Group plc
10 Commercial and Infrastructure 
Piping Systems – UK
Sales from our UK commercial and 
infrastructure businesses were £131.5m 
and represented 36% of overall Group 
revenues in 2015.
Demand from road and rail projects 
remained good although changes to the 
funding model for Highways England 
resulted in some slowing of activity 
for a period. Their published £15.2bn 
Road Investment strategy for capital 
enhancement and renewals between 
2015 and 2020 is expected to lead to a 
pick up in growth rates. 
Private commercial also performed well 
and the development of high rise multi 
occupancy buildings in London and more 
recently in other major cities provided 
good level of demand for our commercial 
systems, including the recently acquired 
Nuaire ranges.
Export revenues grew by 18% over 
2014, primarily from sales into the Gulf 
states. We have continued to expand 
our sales presence in the region and 
remain committed to developing further 
specification activity alongside our 
intention to commence manufacturing of 
water attenuation systems during 2016.
Volatile polymer costs had a negative 
impact on the plastics recycling industry. 
This resulted in a tightening of supply 
and combined with formulaic sales 
pricing mechanisms to our customers, 
squeezed operating margins as input 
costs of recyclate did not decline at the 
rate of virgin polymer prices.
Commercial and Infrastructure Piping 
Systems – UK delivered an underlying 
profit of £20.1m, an increase of 18.2% 
over the prior year. 
Commercial and Infrastructure 
Piping Systems – Europe
Sales from our continental European 
businesses were £50.4m and represented 
14% of overall Group revenues in 2015. 
Although when translated into sterling 
this is down 6.5% on prior year, in local 
currency revenues increased by 3.5%.
The market showed no real signs of 
improvement during the year, although 
our second half revenue performance 
improved, being 10.3% up in local 
currency terms against the same period 
in 2014. We have continued to focus on 
our improvement initiatives.
Underlying operating profits improved to 
£1.3m an increase of nearly 50% in local 
currency.
OUTLOOK
Whilst there remain political and 
economic uncertainties, underlying 
fundamentals across all sectors of the 
UK construction market remain positive 
with Government announcements and 
policy generally supportive of stimulating 
further housebuild, home ownership and 
improving the national infrastructure. 
In our main UK market, 2016 industry 
forecasts expect that construction activity 
will outpace GDP .
2016 has started well and we are 
encouraged by reports from the 
merchants of improvement in RMI spend 
in the early part of this year following the 
upturn in housing transactions during 
the second half of 2015. A supportive 
market, our focus on delivering our 
growth initiatives and a determination to 
remain agile, mean we look forward to 
2016 being a year of further progression.
David Hall
Chief Executive Officer
STRATEGIC REPORT Stock Code: PLP polypipe.com
11
